or what sort of a gentleman , that his ill-fame should be thus current on the wayside ?
If an hour 's walking would have bring me back to Essendean , I have leave my adventure then and there , and return to Mr. Campbell 's .
But when I have come so far a way already , mere shame would not suffer me to desist till I have put the matter to the touch of proof ; I be bind , out of mere self-respect , to carry it through ; and little a I like the sound of what I hear , and slow a I begin to travel , I still keep ask my way and still keep advance .
It be draw on to sundown when I meet a stout , dark , sour-looking woman come trudge down a hill ; and she , when I have put my usual question , turn sharp about , accompany me back to the summit she have just leave , and point to a great bulk of build stand very bare upon a green in the bottom of the next valley .
The country be pleasant round about , run in low hill , pleasantly water and wooded , and the crop , to my eye , wonderfully good ; but the house itself appear to be a kind of ruin ; no road lead up to it ; no smoke arose from any of the chimney ; nor be there any semblance of a garden .
My heart sank .
`` That ! ''
I cry .
The woman 's face light up with a malignant anger .
`` That be the house of Shaws ! ''
she cry .
`` Blood build it ; blood stop the building of it ; blood shall bring it down .
See here ! ''
she cry again -- `` I spit upon the ground , and crack my thumb at it !
Black be it fall !
If ye see the laird , tell him what ye hear ; tell him this make the twelve hunner and nineteen time that Jennet Clouston have call down the curse on him and his house , byre and stable , man , guest , and master , wife , miss , or bairn -- black , black be their fall ! ''
And the woman , whose voice have rise to a kind of eldritch sing-song , turn with a skip , and be go .
I stand where she leave me , with my hair on end .
In those day folk still believe in witch and tremble at a curse ; and this one , fall so pat , like a wayside omen , to arrest me ere I carry out my purpose , take the pith out of my leg .
I sit me down and star at the house of Shaws .
The more I look , the pleasanter that country-side appear ; be all set with hawthorn bush full of flower ; the field dot with sheep ; a fine flight of rook in the sky ; and every sign of a kind soil and climate ; and yet the barrack in the midst of it go sore against my fancy .
Country folk go by from the field a I sit there on the side of the ditch , but I lack the spirit to give them a good-e ` en .
At last the sun go down , and then , right up against the yellow sky , I saw a scroll of smoke go mounting , not much thicker , a it seem to me , than the smoke of a candle ; but still there it be , and mean a fire , and warmth , and cookery , and some living inhabitant that must have lit it ; and this comfort my heart .
So I set forward by a little faint track in the grass that lead in my direction .
It be very faint indeed to be the only way to a place of habitation ; yet I saw no other .
Presently it bring me to stone upright , with an unroofed lodge beside them , and coat of arm upon the top .
A main entrance it be plainly mean to be , but never finish ; instead of gate of wrought iron , a pair of hurdle be tie across with a straw rope ; and a there be no park wall , nor any sign of avenue , the track that I be follow pass on the right hand of the pillar , and go wander on toward the house .
The nearer I get to that , the drearier it appear .
It seem like the one wing of a house that have never be finish .
What should have be the inner end stand open on the upper floor , and show against the sky with step and stair of uncompleted masonry .
Many of the window be unglazed , and bat fly in and out like dove out of a dove-cote .
The night have begin to fall a I get close ; and in three of the low window , which be very high up and narrow , and well bar , the change light of a little fire begin to glimmer .
Was this the palace I have be come to ?
Was it within these wall that I be to seek new friend and begin great fortune ?
Why , in my father 's house on Essen-Waterside , the fire and the bright light would show a mile away , and the door open to a beggar 's knock !
I come forward cautiously , and give ear a I come , hear some one rattling with dish , and a little dry , eager cough that come in fit ; but there be no sound of speech , and not a dog bark .
The door , as well a I could see it in the dim light , be a great piece of wood all stud with nail ; and I lift my hand with a faint heart under my jacket , and knock once .
Then I stand and wait .
The house have fall into a dead silence ; a whole minute pass away , and nothing stir but the bat overhead .
I knock again , and hearken again .
By this time my ear have grow so accustomed to the quiet , that I could hear the ticking of the clock inside a it slowly count out the second ; but whoever be in that house keep deadly still , and must have hold his breath .
I be in two mind whether to run away ; but anger get the upper hand , and I begin instead to rain kick and buffet on the door , and to shout out aloud for Mr. Balfour .
I be in full career , when I hear the cough right overhead , and jump back and look up , behold a man 's head in a tall nightcap , and the bell mouth of a blunderbuss , at one of the first-storey window .
`` It 's load , '' say a voice .
`` I have come here with a letter , '' I say , `` to Mr. Ebenezer Balfour of Shaws .
Is he here ? ''
`` From whom be it ? ''
ask the man with the blunderbuss .
`` That be neither here nor there , '' say I , for I be grow very wroth .
`` Well , '' be the reply , `` ye can put it down upon the doorstep , and be off with ye . ''
`` I will do no such thing , '' I cry .
`` I will deliver it into Mr. Balfour 's hand , a it be mean I should .
It be a letter of introduction . ''
`` A what ? ''
cry the voice , sharply .
I repeat what I have say .
`` Who be ye , yourself ? ''
be the next question , after a considerable pause .
`` I be not ashamed of my name , '' say I . `` They call me David Balfour . ''
At that , I make sure the man start , for I hear the blunderbuss rattle on the window-sill ; and it be after quite a long pause , and with a curious change of voice , that the next question follow : `` Is your father dead ? ''
I be so much surprise at this , that I could find no voice to answer , but stand staring .
`` Ay , '' the man resume , `` he 'll be dead , no doubt ; and that 'll be what bring ye chap to my door . ''
Another pause , and then defiantly , `` Well , man , '' he say , `` I 'll let ye in ; '' and he disappear from the window .
CHAPTER III I MAKE ACQUAINTANCE OF MY UNCLE Presently there come a great rattling of chain and bolt , and the door be cautiously open and shut to again behind me as soon a I have pass .
`` Go into the kitchen and touch naething , '' say the voice ; and while the person of the house set himself to replace the defence of the door , I grope my way forward and enter the kitchen .
The fire have burn up fairly bright , and show me the bare room I think I ever put my eye on .
Half-a-dozen dish stand upon the shelf ; the table be lay for supper with a bowl of porridge , a horn spoon , and a cup of small beer .
Besides what I have name , there be not another thing in that great , stone-vaulted , empty chamber but lockfast chest arrange along the wall and a corner cupboard with a padlock .
As soon a the last chain be up , the man rejoin me .
He be a mean , stoop , narrow-shouldered , clay-faced creature ; and his age might have be anything between fifty and seventy .
His nightcap be of flannel , and so be the nightgown that he wear , instead of coat and waistcoat , over his ragged shirt .
He be long unshaved ; but what most distressed and even daunt me , he would neither take his eye away from me nor look me fairly in the face .
What he be , whether by trade or birth , be more than I could fathom ; but he seem most like an old , unprofitable serving-man , who should have be leave in charge of that big house upon board wage .
`` Are ye sharp-set ? ''
he ask , glance at about the level of my knee .
`` Ye can eat that drop parritch ? ''
I say I fear it be his own supper .
`` O , '' say he , `` I can do fine want it .
I 'll take the ale , though , for it slockens -LRB- moistens -RRB- my cough . ''
He drink the cup about half out , still keep an eye upon me a he drink ; and then suddenly hold out his hand .
`` Let 's see the letter , '' say he .
I tell him the letter be for Mr. Balfour ; not for him .
`` And who do ye think I be ? ''
say he .
`` Give me Alexander 's letter . ''
`` You know my father 's name ? ''
`` It would be strange if I didnae , '' he return , `` for he be my born brother ; and little a ye seem to like either me or my house , or my good parritch , I 'm your born uncle , Davie , my man , and you my born nephew .
So give u the letter , and sit down and fill your kyte . ''
If I have be some year young , what with shame , weariness , and disappointment , I believe I have burst into tear .
As it be , I could find no word , neither black nor white , but hand him the letter , and sit down to the porridge with as little appetite for meat a ever a young man have .
Meanwhile , my uncle , stoop over the fire , turn the letter over and over in his hand .
`` Do ye ken what 's in it ? ''
he ask , suddenly .
`` You see for yourself , sir , '' say I , `` that the seal have not be break . ''
`` Ay , '' say he , `` but what bring you here ? ''
`` To give the letter , '' say I . `` No , '' say he , cunningly , `` but ye 'll have have some hope , nae doubt ? ''
`` I confess , sir , '' say I , `` when I be tell that I have kinsfolk well-to-do , I do indeed indulge the hope that they might help me in my life .
But I be no beggar ; I look for no favour at your hand , and I want none that be not freely give .
For as poor a I appear , I have friend of my own that will be blithe to help me . ''
`` Hoot-toot ! ''
say Uncle Ebenezer , `` dinnae fly up in the snuff at me .
We 'll agree fine yet .
And , Davie , my man , if you 're do with that bit parritch , I could just take a sup of it myself .
Ay , '' he continue , as soon a he have oust me from the stool and spoon , `` they 're fine , halesome food -- they 're grand food , parritch . ''
He murmur a little grace to himself and fell to .
`` Your father be very fond of his meat , I mind ; he be a hearty , if not a great eater ; but a for me , I could never do mair than pyke at food . ''
He take a pull at the small beer , which probably remind him of hospitable duty , for his next speech run thus : `` If ye 're dry ye 'll find water behind the door . ''
To this I return no answer , stand stiffly on my two foot , and look down upon my uncle with a mighty angry heart .
He , on his part , continue to eat like a man under some pressure of time , and to throw out little dart glance now at my shoe and now at my home-spun stocking .
Once only , when he have venture to look a little high , our eye meet ; and no thief take with a hand in a man 's pocket could have show more lively signal of distress .
This set me in a muse , whether his timidity arise from too long a disuse of any human company ; and whether perhaps , upon a little trial , it might pass off , and my uncle change into an altogether different man .
From this I be awaken by his sharp voice .
`` Your father 's be long dead ? ''
he ask .
`` Three week , sir , '' say I . `` He be a secret man , Alexander -- a secret , silent man , '' he continue .
`` He never say muckle when he be young .
He 'll never have speak muckle of me ? ''
`` I never know , sir , till you tell it me yourself , that he have any brother . ''
`` Dear me , dear me ! ''
say Ebenezer .
`` Nor yet of Shaws , I dare say ? ''
`` Not so much a the name , sir , '' say I . `` To think o ' that ! ''
say he .
`` A strange nature of a man ! ''
For all that , he seem singularly satisfied , but whether with himself , or me , or with this conduct of my father 's , be more than I could read .
Certainly , however , he seem to be outgrow that distaste , or ill-will , that he have conceive at first against my person ; for presently he jump up , come across the room behind me , and hit me a smack upon the shoulder .
`` We 'll agree fine yet ! ''
he cry .
`` I 'm just a glad I let you in .
And now come awa ' to your bed . ''
To my surprise , he light no lamp or candle , but set forth into the dark passage , grope his way , breathe deeply , up a flight of step , and pause before a door , which he unlock .
I be close upon his heel , have stumble after him a best I might ; and then he bid me go in , for that be my chamber .
I do a he bid , but pause after a few step , and beg a light to go to bed with .
`` Hoot-toot ! ''
say Uncle Ebenezer , `` there 's a fine moon . ''
`` Neither moon nor star , sir , and pit-mirk , '' * say I . `` I cannae see the bed . ''
* Dark a the pit .
`` Hoot-toot , hoot-toot ! ''
say he .
`` Lights in a house be a thing I dinnae agree with .
I 'm unco fear of fire .
Good-night to ye , Davie , my man . ''
And before I have time to add a further protest , he pull the door to , and I hear him lock me in from the outside .
I do not know whether to laugh or cry .
The room be as cold a a well , and the bed , when I have find my way to it , as damp a a peat-hag ; but by good fortune I have catch up my bundle and my plaid , and roll myself in the latter , I lay down upon the floor under lee of the big bedstead , and fell speedily asleep .
With the first peep of day I open my eye , to find myself in a great chamber , hung with stamped leather , furnish with fine embroidered furniture , and lit by three fair window .
Ten year ago , or perhaps twenty , it must have be a pleasant a room to lie down or to awake in a a man could wish ; but damp , dirt , disuse , and the mouse and spider have do their bad since then .
Many of the window-panes , besides , be break ; and indeed this be so common a feature in that house , that I believe my uncle must at some time have stand a siege from his indignant neighbour -- perhaps with Jennet Clouston at their head .
Meanwhile the sun be shin outside ; and be very cold in that miserable room , I knock and shout till my gaoler come and let me out .
He carry me to the back of the house , where be a draw-well , and tell me to `` wash my face there , if I want ; '' and when that be do , I make the best of my own way back to the kitchen , where he have light the fire and be make the porridge .
The table be lay with two bowl and two horn spoon , but the same single measure of small beer .
Perhaps my eye rest on this particular with some surprise , and perhaps my uncle observe it ; for he speak up a if in answer to my thought , ask me if I would like to drink ale -- for so he call it .
I tell him such be my habit , but not to put himself about .
`` Na , na , '' say he ; `` I 'll deny you nothing in reason . ''
He fetch another cup from the shelf ; and then , to my great surprise , instead of draw more beer , he pour an accurate half from one cup to the other .
There be a kind of nobleness in this that take my breath away ; if my uncle be certainly a miser , he be one of that thorough breed that go near to make the vice respectable .
When we have make an end of our meal , my uncle Ebenezer unlock a drawer , and draw out of it a clay pipe and a lump of tobacco , from which he cut one fill before he lock it up again .
Then he sit down in the sun at one of the window and silently smoke .
From time to time his eye come coast round to me , and he shoot out one of his question .
Once it be , `` And your mother ? ''
and when I have tell him that she , too , be dead , `` Ay , she be a bonnie lassie ! ''
Then , after another long pause , `` Whae be these friend o ' yours ? ''
I tell him they be different gentleman of the name of Campbell ; though , indeed , there be only one , and that the minister , that have ever take the least note of me ; but I begin to think my uncle make too light of my position , and find myself all alone with him , I do not wish him to suppose me helpless .
He seem to turn this over in his mind ; and then , `` Davie , my man , '' say he , `` ye 've come to the right bit when ye come to your uncle Ebenezer .
I 've a great notion of the family , and I mean to do the right by you ; but while I 'm take a bit think to mysel ' of what 's the best thing to put you to -- whether the law , or the meenistry , or maybe the army , whilk be what boy be fond of -- I wouldnae like the Balfours to be humble before a wheen Hieland Campbells , and I 'll ask you to keep your tongue within your teeth .
Nae letter ; nae message ; no kind of word to onybody ; or else -- there 's my door . ''
`` Uncle Ebenezer , '' say I , `` I 've no manner of reason to suppose you mean anything but well by me .
For all that , I would have you to know that I have a pride of my own .
It be by no will of mine that I come seek you ; and if you show me your door again , I 'll take you at the word . ''
He seem grievously put out .
`` Hoots-toots , '' say he , `` ca ' cannie , man -- ca ' cannie !
Bide a day or two .
I 'm nae warlock , to find a fortune for you in the bottom of a parritch bowl ; but just you give me a day or two , and say naething to naebody , and as sure a sure , I 'll do the right by you . ''
`` Very well , '' say I , `` enough say .
If you want to help me , there 's no doubt but I 'll be glad of it , and none but I 'll be grateful . ''
It seem to me -LRB- too soon , I dare say -RRB- that I be get the upper hand of my uncle ; and I begin next to say that I must have the bed and bedclothes air and put to sun-dry ; for nothing would make me sleep in such a pickle .
`` Is this my house or yours ? ''
say he , in his keen voice , and then all of a sudden broke off .
`` Na , na , '' say he , `` I didnae mean that .
What 's mine be yours , Davie , my man , and what 's yours be mine .
Blood 's thicker than water ; and there 's naebody but you and me that ought the name . ''
And then on he ramble about the family , and it ancient greatness , and his father that begin to enlarge the house , and himself that stop the building a a sinful waste ; and this put it in my head to give him Jennet Clouston 's message .
`` The limmer ! ''
he cry .
`` Twelve hunner and fifteen -- that 's every day since I have the limmer rowpit !
* Dod , David , I 'll have her roast on red peat before I 'm by with it !
A witch -- a proclaimed witch !
I 'll aff and see the session clerk . ''
* Sold up .
And with that he open a chest , and get out a very old and well-preserved blue coat and waistcoat , and a good enough beaver hat , both without lace .
These he throw on any way , and take a staff from the cupboard , lock all up again , and be for set out , when a thought arrest him .
`` I cannae leave you by yoursel ' in the house , '' say he .
`` I 'll have to lock you out . ''
The blood come to my face .
`` If you lock me out , '' I say , `` it 'll be the last you 'll see of me in friendship . ''
He turn very pale , and suck his mouth in .
`` This be no the way , '' he say , look wickedly at a corner of the floor -- `` this be no the way to win my favour , David . ''
`` Sir , '' say I , `` with a proper reverence for your age and our common blood , I do not value your favour at a boddle 's purchase .
I be bring up to have a good conceit of myself ; and if you be all the uncle , and all the family , I have in the world ten time over , I would n't buy your like at such price . ''
Uncle Ebenezer go and look out of the window for awhile .
I could see him all trembling and twitching , like a man with palsy .
But when he turn round , he have a smile upon his face .
`` Well , well , '' say he , `` we must bear and forbear .
I 'll no go ; that 's all that 's to be say of it . ''
`` Uncle Ebenezer , '' I say , `` I can make nothing out of this .
You use me like a thief ; you hate to have me in this house ; you let me see it , every word and every minute : it 's not possible that you can like me ; and a for me , I 've speak to you a I never think to speak to any man .
Why do you seek to keep me , then ?
Let me gang back -- let me gang back to the friend I have , and that like me ! ''
`` Na , na ; na , na , '' he say , very earnestly .
`` I like you fine ; we 'll agree fine yet ; and for the honour of the house I couldnae let you leave the way ye come .
Bide here quiet , there 's a good lad ; just you bide here quiet a bittie , and ye 'll find that we agree . ''
`` Well , sir , '' say I , after I have think the matter out in silence , `` I 'll stay awhile .
It 's more just I should be help by my own blood than stranger ; and if we do n't agree , I 'll do my best it shall be through no fault of mine . ''
CHAPTER IV I RUN A GREAT DANGER IN THE HOUSE OF SHAWS For a day that be begin so ill , the day pass fairly well .
We have the porridge cold again at noon , and hot porridge at night ; porridge and small beer be my uncle 's diet .
He speak but little , and that in the same way a before , shoot a question at me after a long silence ; and when I seek to lead him to talk about my future , slip out of it again .
In a room next door to the kitchen , where he suffer me to go , I find a great number of book , both Latin and English , in which I take great pleasure all the afternoon .
Indeed , the time pass so lightly in this good company , that I begin to be almost reconcile to my residence at Shaws ; and nothing but the sight of my uncle , and his eye play hide and seek with mine , revive the force of my distrust .
One thing I discover , which put me in some doubt .
This be an entry on the fly-leaf of a chap-book -LRB- one of Patrick Walker 's -RRB- plainly write by my father 's hand and thus conceive : `` To my brother Ebenezer on his fifth birthday . ''
Now , what puzzle me be this : That , a my father be of course the young brother , he must either have make some strange error , or he must have write , before he be yet five , an excellent , clear manly hand of writing .
I try to get this out of my head ; but though I take down many interesting author , old and new , history , poetry , and story-book , this notion of my father 's hand of write stuck to me ; and when at length I go back into the kitchen , and sit down once more to porridge and small beer , the first thing I say to Uncle Ebenezer be to ask him if my father have not be very quick at his book .
`` Alexander ?
No him ! ''
be the reply .
`` I be far quick mysel ' ; I be a clever chappie when I be young .
Why , I could read as soon a he could . ''
This puzzle me yet more ; and a thought come into my head , I ask if he and my father have be twin .
He jump upon his stool , and the horn spoon fell out of his hand upon the floor .
`` What gars ye ask that ? ''
he say , and he catch me by the breast of the jacket , and look this time straight into my eye : his own be little and light , and bright like a bird 's , blinking and wink strangely .
`` What do you mean ? ''
I ask , very calmly , for I be far strong than he , and not easily frighten .
`` Take your hand from my jacket .
This be no way to behave . ''
My uncle seem to make a great effort upon himself .
`` Dod man , David , '' he say , `` ye should-nae speak to me about your father .
That 's where the mistake be . ''
He sit awhile and shook , blink in his plate : `` He be all the brother that ever I have , '' he add , but with no heart in his voice ; and then he catch up his spoon and fell to supper again , but still shake .
Now this last passage , this laying of hand upon my person and sudden profession of love for my dead father , go so clean beyond my comprehension that it put me into both fear and hope .
On the one hand , I begin to think my uncle be perhaps insane and might be dangerous ; on the other , there come up into my mind -LRB- quite unbidden by me and even discourage -RRB- a story like some ballad I have hear folk singing , of a poor lad that be a rightful heir and a wicked kinsman that try to keep him from his own .
For why should my uncle play a part with a relative that come , almost a beggar , to his door , unless in his heart he have some cause to fear him ?
With this notion , all unacknowledged , but nevertheless get firmly settle in my head , I now begin to imitate his covert look ; so that we sit at table like a cat and a mouse , each stealthily observe the other .
Not another word have he to say to me , black or white , but be busy turn something secretly over in his mind ; and the long we sit and the more I look at him , the more certain I become that the something be unfriendly to myself .
When he have clear the platter , he get out a single pipeful of tobacco , just a in the morning , turn round a stool into the chimney corner , and sit awhile smoking , with his back to me .
`` Davie , '' he say , at length , `` I 've be think ; '' then he pause , and say it again .
`` There 's a wee bit siller that I half promised ye before ye be bear , '' he continue ; `` promise it to your father .
O , naething legal , ye understand ; just gentleman daffing at their wine .
Well , I keepit that bit money separate -- it be a great expense , but a promise be a promise -- and it have grow by now to be a matter of just precisely -- just exactly '' -- and here he pause and stumble -- `` of just exactly forty pound ! ''
This last he rap out with a sidelong glance over his shoulder ; and the next moment add , almost with a scream , `` Scots ! ''
The pound Scots be the same thing a an English shilling , the difference make by this second thought be considerable ; I could see , besides , that the whole story be a lie , invent with some end which it puzzle me to guess ; and I make no attempt to conceal the tone of raillery in which I answer -- `` O , think again , sir !
Pounds sterling , I believe ! ''
`` That 's what I say , '' return my uncle : `` pound sterling !
And if you 'll step out-by to the door a minute , just to see what kind of a night it be , I 'll get it out to ye and call ye in again . ''
I do his will , smile to myself in my contempt that he should think I be so easily to be deceive .
It be a dark night , with a few star low down ; and a I stand just outside the door , I hear a hollow moaning of wind far off among the hill .
I say to myself there be something thundery and changeful in the weather , and little knew of what a vast importance that should prove to me before the evening pass .
When I be call in again , my uncle count out into my hand seven and thirty golden guinea piece ; the rest be in his hand , in small gold and silver ; but his heart fail him there , and he cram the change into his pocket .
`` There , '' say he , `` that 'll show you !
I 'm a queer man , and strange wi ' stranger ; but my word be my bond , and there 's the proof of it . ''
Now , my uncle seem so miserly that I be strike dumb by this sudden generosity , and could find no word in which to thank him .
`` No a word ! ''
say he .
`` Nae thanks ; I want nae thanks .
I do my duty .
I 'm no say that everybody would have do it ; but for my part -LRB- though I 'm a careful body , too -RRB- it 's a pleasure to me to do the right by my brother 's son ; and it 's a pleasure to me to think that now we 'll agree a such near friend should . ''
I speak him in return as handsomely a I be able ; but all the while I be wonder what would come next , and why he have part with his precious guinea ; for a to the reason he have give , a baby would have refuse it .
Presently he look towards me sideways .
`` And see here , '' say he , `` tit for tat . ''
I tell him I be ready to prove my gratitude in any reasonable degree , and then wait , look for some monstrous demand .
And yet , when at last he pluck up courage to speak , it be only to tell me -LRB- very properly , a I think -RRB- that he be grow old and a little broken , and that he would expect me to help him with the house and the bit garden .
I answer , and express my readiness to serve .
`` Well , '' he say , `` let 's begin . ''
He pull out of his pocket a rusty key .
`` There , '' say he , `` there 's the key of the stair-tower at the far end of the house .
Ye can only win into it from the outside , for that part of the house be no finish .
Gang ye in there , and up the stair , and bring me down the chest that 's at the top .
There 's paper i n't , '' he add .
`` Can I have a light , sir ? ''
say I . `` Na , '' say he , very cunningly .
`` Nae light in my house . ''
`` Very well , sir , '' say I . `` Are the stair good ? ''
`` They 're grand , '' say he ; and then , a I be go , `` Keep to the wall , '' he add ; `` there 's nae bannister .
But the stair be grand underfoot . ''
Out I go into the night .
The wind be still moan in the distance , though never a breath of it come near the house of Shaws .
It have fall blacker than ever ; and I be glad to feel along the wall , till I come the length of the stairtower door at the far end of the unfinished wing .
I have get the key into the keyhole and have just turn it , when all upon a sudden , without sound of wind or thunder , the whole sky light up with wild fire and go black again .
I have to put my hand over my eye to get back to the colour of the darkness ; and indeed I be already half blind when I step into the tower .
It be so dark inside , it seem a body could scarce breathe ; but I push out with foot and hand , and presently strike the wall with the one , and the lowermost round of the stair with the other .
The wall , by the touch , be of fine hewn stone ; the step too , though somewhat steep and narrow , be of polished masonwork , and regular and solid underfoot .
Minding my uncle 's word about the bannister , I keep close to the tower side , and felt my way in the pitch darkness with a beating heart .
The house of Shaws stand some five full storey high , not count loft .
Well , a I advance , it seem to me the stair grow airy and a thought more lightsome ; and I be wonder what might be the cause of this change , when a second blink of the summer lightning come and go .
If I do not cry out , it be because fear have me by the throat ; and if I do not fall , it be more by Heaven 's mercy than my own strength .
It be not only that the flash shone in on every side through breach in the wall , so that I seem to be clamber aloft upon an open scaffold , but the same passing brightness show me the step be of unequal length , and that one of my foot rest that moment within two inch of the well .
This be the grand stair !
I think ; and with the thought , a gust of a kind of angry courage come into my heart .
My uncle have send me here , certainly to run great risk , perhaps to die .
I swear I would settle that `` perhaps , '' if I should break my neck for it ; get me down upon my hand and knee ; and as slowly a a snail , feel before me every inch , and test the solidity of every stone , I continue to ascend the stair .
The darkness , by contrast with the flash , appear to have redouble ; nor be that all , for my ear be now troubled and my mind confound by a great stir of bat in the top part of the tower , and the foul beast , fly downwards , sometimes beat about my face and body .
The tower , I should have say , be square ; and in every corner the step be make of a great stone of a different shape to join the flight .
Well , I have come close to one of these turn , when , feel forward a usual , my hand slip upon an edge and find nothing but emptiness beyond it .
The stair have be carry no high ; to set a stranger mount it in the darkness be to send him straight to his death ; and -LRB- although , thanks to the lightning and my own precaution , I be safe enough -RRB- the mere thought of the peril in which I might have stand , and the dreadful height I might have fall from , bring out the sweat upon my body and relaxed my joint .
But I know what I want now , and turn and grope my way down again , with a wonderful anger in my heart .
About half-way down , the wind spring up in a clap and shake the tower , and die again ; the rain follow ; and before I have reach the ground level it fell in bucket .
I put out my head into the storm , and look along towards the kitchen .
The door , which I have shut behind me when I leave , now stand open , and shed a little glimmer of light ; and I think I could see a figure standing in the rain , quite still , like a man hearkening .
And then there come a blinding flash , which show me my uncle plainly , just where I have fancy him to stand ; and hard upon the heel of it , a great tow-row of thunder .
Now , whether my uncle think the crash to be the sound of my fall , or whether he hear in it God 's voice denounce murder , I will leave you to guess .
Certain it be , at least , that he be seize on by a kind of panic fear , and that he run into the house and leave the door open behind him .
I follow as softly a I could , and , come unheard into the kitchen , stood and watch him .
He have find time to open the corner cupboard and bring out a great case bottle of aqua vitae , and now sit with his back towards me at the table .
Ever and again he would be seize with a fit of deadly shuddering and groan aloud , and carry the bottle to his lip , drink down the raw spirit by the mouthful .
I step forward , come close behind him where he sit , and suddenly clap my two hand down upon his shoulder -- `` Ah ! ''
cry I . My uncle give a kind of broken cry like a sheep 's bleat , fling up his arm , and tumble to the floor like a dead man .
I be somewhat shock at this ; but I have myself to look to first of all , and do not hesitate to let him lie a he have fall .
The key be hang in the cupboard ; and it be my design to furnish myself with arm before my uncle should come again to his sens and the power of devise evil .
In the cupboard be a few bottle , some apparently of medicine ; a great many bill and other paper , which I should willingly enough have rummage , have I have the time ; and a few necessary that be nothing to my purpose .
Thence I turn to the chest .
The first be full of meal ; the second of moneybag and paper tie into sheaf ; in the third , with many other thing -LRB- and these for the most part clothes -RRB- I find a rusty , ugly-looking Highland dirk without the scabbard .
This , then , I conceal inside my waistcoat , and turn to my uncle .
He lay a he have fall , all huddle , with one knee up and one arm sprawling abroad ; his face have a strange colour of blue , and he seem to have cease breathing .
Fear come on me that he be dead ; then I get water and dash it in his face ; and with that he seem to come a little to himself , work his mouth and flutter his eyelid .
At last he look up and saw me , and there come into his eye a terror that be not of this world .
`` Come , come , '' say I ; `` sit up . ''
`` Are ye alive ? ''
he sob .
`` O man , be ye alive ? ''
`` That be I , '' say I . `` Small thanks to you ! ''
He have begin to seek for his breath with deep sigh .
`` The blue phial , '' say he -- `` in the aumry -- the blue phial . ''
His breath come slow still .
I run to the cupboard , and , sure enough , find there a blue phial of medicine , with the dose write on it on a paper , and this I administer to him with what speed I might .
`` It 's the trouble , '' say he , revive a little ; `` I have a trouble , Davie .
It 's the heart . ''
I set him on a chair and look at him .
It be true I felt some pity for a man that look so sick , but I be full besides of righteous anger ; and I number over before him the point on which I want explanation : why he lie to me at every word ; why he fear that I should leave him ; why he dislike it to be hint that he and my father be twin -- `` Is that because it be true ? ''
I ask ; why he have give me money to which I be convince I have no claim ; and , last of all , why he have try to kill me .
He hear me all through in silence ; and then , in a broken voice , beg me to let him go to bed .
`` I 'll tell ye the morn , '' he say ; `` as sure a death I will . ''
And so weak be he that I could do nothing but consent .
I lock him into his room , however , and pocket the key , and then return to the kitchen , make up such a blaze a have not shine there for many a long year , and wrap myself in my plaid , lay down upon the chest and fell asleep .
CHAPTER V I GO TO THE QUEEN 'S FERRY Much rain fell in the night ; and the next morning there blow a bitter wintry wind out of the north-west , drive scatter cloud .
For all that , and before the sun begin to peep or the last of the star have vanish , I make my way to the side of the burn , and have a plunge in a deep whirling pool .
All aglow from my bath , I sit down once more beside the fire , which I replenish , and begin gravely to consider my position .
There be now no doubt about my uncle 's enmity ; there be no doubt I carry my life in my hand , and he would leave no stone unturned that he might compass my destruction .
But I be young and spirited , and like most lad that have be country-bred , I have a great opinion of my shrewdness .
I have come to his door no good than a beggar and little more than a child ; he have meet me with treachery and violence ; it would be a fine consummation to take the upper hand , and drive him like a herd of sheep .
I sit there nurse my knee and smile at the fire ; and I saw myself in fancy smell out his secret one after another , and grow to be that man 's king and ruler .
The warlock of Essendean , they say , have make a mirror in which men could read the future ; it must have be of other stuff than burn coal ; for in all the shape and picture that I sit and gaze at , there be never a ship , never a seaman with a hairy cap , never a big bludgeon for my silly head , or the least sign of all those tribulation that be ripe to fall on me .
Presently , all swell with conceit , I go up-stairs and give my prisoner his liberty .
He give me good-morning civilly ; and I give the same to him , smile down upon him , from the height of my sufficiency .
Soon we be set to breakfast , a it might have be the day before .
`` Well , sir , '' say I , with a jeer tone , `` have you nothing more to say to me ? ''
And then , a he make no articulate reply , `` It will be time , I think , to understand each other , '' I continue .
`` You take me for a country Johnnie Raw , with no more mother-wit or courage than a porridge-stick .
I take you for a good man , or no bad than others at the least .
It seem we be both wrong .
What cause you have to fear me , to cheat me , and to attempt my life -- '' He murmur something about a jest , and that he like a bit of fun ; and then , see me smile , change his tone , and assure me he would make all clear as soon a we have breakfast .
I saw by his face that he have no lie ready for me , though he be hard at work prepare one ; and I think I be about to tell him so , when we be interrupt by a knocking at the door .
Bidding my uncle sit where he be , I go to open it , and find on the doorstep a half-grown boy in sea-clothes .
He have no sooner see me than he begin to dance some step of the sea-hornpipe -LRB- which I have never before heard of far less see -RRB- , snap his finger in the air and foot it right cleverly .
For all that , he be blue with the cold ; and there be something in his face , a look between tear and laughter , that be highly pathetic and consist ill with this gaiety of manner .
`` What cheer , mate ? ''
say he , with a cracked voice .
I ask him soberly to name his pleasure .
`` O , pleasure ! ''
say he ; and then begin to sing : `` For it 's my delight , of a shiny night , In the season of the year . ''
`` Well , '' say I , `` if you have no business at all , I will even be so unmannerly a to shut you out . ''
`` Stay , brother ! ''
he cry .
`` Have you no fun about you ?
or do you want to get me thrash ?
I 've bring a letter from old Heasyoasy to Mr. Belflower . ''
He show me a letter a he speak .
`` And I say , mate , '' he add , `` I 'm mortal hungry . ''
`` Well , '' say I , `` come into the house , and you shall have a bite if I go empty for it . ''
With that I bring him in and set him down to my own place , where he fell-to greedily on the remains of breakfast , wink to me between while , and make many face , which I think the poor soul consider manly .
Meanwhile , my uncle have read the letter and sit thinking ; then , suddenly , he get to his foot with a great air of liveliness , and pull me apart into the farthest corner of the room .
`` Read that , '' say he , and put the letter in my hand .
Here it be , lie before me a I write : `` The Hawes Inn , at the Queen 's Ferry .
`` Sir , -- I lie here with my hawser up and down , and send my cabin-boy to informe .
If you have any further command for over-seas , to-day will be the last occasion , a the wind will serve u well out of the firth .
I will not seek to deny that I have have cross with your doer , * Mr. Rankeillor ; of which , if not speedily redd up , you may looke to see some loss follow .
I have draw a bill upon you , a per margin , and be , sir , your most obedt . , humble servant , `` ELIAS HOSEASON . ''
* Agent .
`` You see , Davie , '' resume my uncle , as soon a he saw that I have do , `` I have a venture with this man Hoseason , the captain of a trading brig , the Covenant , of Dysart .
Now , if you and me be to walk over with yon lad , I could see the captain at the Hawes , or maybe on board the Covenant if there be paper to be sign ; and so far from a loss of time , we can jog on to the lawyer , Mr. Rankeillor 's .
After a ' that 's come and go , ye would be swier * to believe me upon my naked word ; but ye 'll believe Rankeillor .
He 's factor to half the gentry in these part ; an auld man , forby : highly respeckit , and he kenned your father . ''
* Unwilling .
I stand awhile and thought .
I be go to some place of shipping , which be doubtless populous , and where my uncle durst attempt no violence , and , indeed , even the society of the cabin-boy so far protected me .
Once there , I believe I could force on the visit to the lawyer , even if my uncle be now insincere in propose it ; and , perhaps , in the bottom of my heart , I wish a near view of the sea and ship .
You be to remember I have live all my life in the inland hill , and just two day before have my first sight of the firth lie like a blue floor , and the sailed ship move on the face of it , no big than toy .
One thing with another , I make up my mind .
`` Very well , '' say I , `` let u go to the Ferry . ''
My uncle get into his hat and coat , and buckle an old rusty cutlas on ; and then we tread the fire out , lock the door , and set forth upon our walk .
The wind , be in that cold quarter the north-west , blow nearly in our face a we go .
It be the month of June ; the grass be all white with daisy , and the tree with blossom ; but , to judge by our blue nail and ache wrist , the time might have be winter and the whiteness a December frost .
Uncle Ebenezer trudge in the ditch , jog from side to side like an old ploughman come home from work .
He never say a word the whole way ; and I be throw for talk on the cabin-boy .
He tell me his name be Ransome , and that he have follow the sea since he be nine , but could not say how old he be , a he have lose his reckoning .
He show me tattoo mark , bar his breast in the teeth of the wind and in spite of my remonstrance , for I think it be enough to kill him ; he swear horribly whenever he remember , but more like a silly schoolboy than a man ; and boast of many wild and bad thing that he have do : stealthy theft , false accusation , ay , and even murder ; but all with such a dearth of likelihood in the detail , and such a weak and crazy swagger in the delivery , a dispose me rather to pity than to believe him .
I ask him of the brig -LRB- which he declare be the fine ship that sail -RRB- and of Captain Hoseason , in whose praise he be equally loud .
Heasyoasy -LRB- for so he still name the skipper -RRB- be a man , by his account , that mind for nothing either in heaven or earth ; one that , a people say , would `` crack on all sail into the day of judgment ; '' rough , fierce , unscrupulous , and brutal ; and all this my poor cabin-boy have teach himself to admire a something seamanlike and manly .
He would only admit one flaw in his idol .
`` He ai n't no seaman , '' he admit .
`` That 's Mr. Shuan that navigate the brig ; he 's the fine seaman in the trade , only for drink ; and I tell you I believe it !
Why , look ` ere ; '' and turn down his stocking he show me a great , raw , red wound that make my blood run cold .
`` He do that -- Mr. Shuan do it , '' he say , with an air of pride .
`` What ! ''
I cry , `` do you take such savage usage at his hand ?
Why , you be no slave , to be so handled ! ''
`` No , '' say the poor moon-calf , change his tune at once , `` and so he 'll find .
See'ere ; '' and he show me a great case-knife , which he tell me be steal .
`` O , '' say he , `` let me see him try ; I dare him to ; I 'll do for him !
O , he ai n't the first ! ''
And he confirm it with a poor , silly , ugly oath .
I have never felt such pity for any one in this wide world a I felt for that half-witted creature , and it begin to come over me that the brig Covenant -LRB- for all her pious name -RRB- be little good than a hell upon the sea .
`` Have you no friend ? ''
say I .
He say he have a father in some English seaport , I forget which .
`` He be a fine man , too , '' he say , `` but he 's dead . ''
`` In Heaven 's name , '' cry I , `` can you find no reputable life on shore ? ''
`` O , no , '' say he , wink and look very sly , `` they would put me to a trade .
I know a trick worth two of that , I do ! ''
I ask him what trade could be so dreadful a the one he follow , where he run the continual peril of his life , not alone from wind and sea , but by the horrid cruelty of those who be his master .
He say it be very true ; and then begin to praise the life , and tell what a pleasure it be to get on shore with money in his pocket , and spend it like a man , and buy apple , and swagger , and surprise what he call stick-in-the-mud boy .
`` And then it 's not all as bad a that , '' say he ; `` there 's bad off than me : there 's the twenty-pounders .
O , law !
you should see them take on .
Why , I 've see a man as old a you , I dessay '' -- -LRB- to him I seem old -RRB- -- `` ah , and he have a beard , too -- well , and as soon a we clear out of the river , and he have the drug out of his head -- my !
how he cry and carry on !
I make a fine fool of him , I tell you !
And then there 's little uns , too : oh , little by me !
I tell you , I keep them in order .
When we carry little uns , I have a rope 's end of my own to wollop 'em . ''
And so he run on , until it come in on me what he mean by twenty-pounders be those unhappy criminal who be send over-seas to slavery in North America , or the still more unhappy innocent who be kidnap or trepan -LRB- a the word go -RRB- for private interest or vengeance .
Just then we come to the top of the hill , and look down on the Ferry and the Hope .
The Firth of Forth -LRB- a be very well know -RRB- narrow at this point to the width of a good-sized river , which make a convenient ferry go north , and turn the upper reach into a landlocked haven for all manner of ship .
Right in the midst of the narrow lie an islet with some ruin ; on the south shore they have build a pier for the service of the Ferry ; and at the end of the pier , on the other side of the road , and back against a pretty garden of holly-trees and hawthorn , I could see the building which they call the Hawes Inn .
The town of Queensferry lie far west , and the neighbourhood of the inn look pretty lonely at that time of day , for the boat have just go north with passenger .
A skiff , however , lay beside the pier , with some seaman sleep on the thwart ; this , a Ransome tell me , be the brig 's boat wait for the captain ; and about half a mile off , and all alone in the anchorage , he show me the Covenant herself .
There be a sea-going bustle on board ; yard be swing into place ; and a the wind blew from that quarter , I could hear the song of the sailor a they pull upon the rope .
After all I have listen to upon the way , I look at that ship with an extreme abhorrence ; and from the bottom of my heart I pity all poor soul that be condemn to sail in her .
We have all three pull up on the brow of the hill ; and now I march across the road and address my uncle .
`` I think it right to tell you , sir , '' say I , `` there 's nothing that will bring me on board that Covenant . ''
He seem to waken from a dream .
`` Eh ? ''
he say .
`` What 's that ? ''
I tell him over again .
`` Well , well , '' he say , `` we 'll have to please ye , I suppose .
But what be we stand here for ?
It 's perish cold ; and if I 'm no mistaken , they 're busk the Covenant for sea . ''
CHAPTER VI WHAT BEFELL AT THE QUEEN 'S FERRY As soon a we come to the inn , Ransome lead u up the stair to a small room , with a bed in it , and heat like an oven by a great fire of coal .
At a table hard by the chimney , a tall , dark , sober-looking man sit write .
In spite of the heat of the room , he wear a thick sea-jacket , button to the neck , and a tall hairy cap draw down over his ear ; yet I never saw any man , not even a judge upon the bench , look cooler , or more studious and self-possessed , than this ship-captain .
He get to his foot at once , and come forward , offer his large hand to Ebenezer .
`` I be proud to see you , Mr. Balfour , '' say he , in a fine deep voice , `` and glad that ye be here in time .
The wind 's fair , and the tide upon the turn ; we 'll see the old coal-bucket burning on the Isle of May before to-night . ''
`` Captain Hoseason , '' return my uncle , `` you keep your room unco hot . ''
`` It 's a habit I have , Mr. Balfour , '' say the skipper .
`` I 'm a cold-rife man by my nature ; I have a cold blood , sir .
There 's neither fur , nor flannel -- no , sir , nor hot rum , will warm up what they call the temperature .
Sir , it 's the same with most men that have be carbonadoed , a they call it , in the tropic sea . ''
`` Well , well , captain , '' reply my uncle , `` we must all be the way we 're make . ''
But it chance that this fancy of the captain 's have a great share in my misfortune .
For though I have promise myself not to let my kinsman out of sight , I be both so impatient for a near look of the sea , and so sicken by the closeness of the room , that when he tell me to `` run down-stairs and play myself awhile , '' I be fool enough to take him at his word .
Away I go , therefore , leave the two men sit down to a bottle and a great mass of paper ; and cross the road in front of the inn , walk down upon the beach .
With the wind in that quarter , only little wavelet , not much big than I have see upon a lake , beat upon the shore .
But the weed be new to me -- some green , some brown and long , and some with little bladder that crackle between my finger .
Even so far up the firth , the smell of the sea-water be exceedingly salt and stirring ; the Covenant , besides , be begin to shake out her sail , which hang upon the yard in cluster ; and the spirit of all that I behold put me in thought of far voyage and foreign place .
I look , too , at the seaman with the skiff -- big brown fellow , some in shirt , some with jacket , some with coloured handkerchief about their throat , one with a brace of pistol stick into his pocket , two or three with knotty bludgeon , and all with their case-knives .
I pass the time of day with one that look less desperate than his fellow , and ask him of the sailing of the brig . He say they would get under way as soon a the ebb set , and express his gladness to be out of a port where there be no tavern and fiddler ; but all with such horrify oath , that I make haste to get away from him .
This throw me back on Ransome , who seem the least wicked of that gang , and who soon come out of the inn and ran to me , cry for a bowl of punch .
I tell him I would give him no such thing , for neither he nor I be of an age for such indulgence .
`` But a glass of ale you may have , and welcome , '' say I .
He mop and mow at me , and call me name ; but he be glad to get the ale , for all that ; and presently we be set down at a table in the front room of the inn , and both eating and drinking with a good appetite .
Here it occur to me that , a the landlord be a man of that county , I might do well to make a friend of him .
I offer him a share , a be much the custom in those day ; but he be far too great a man to sit with such poor customer a Ransome and myself , and he be leave the room , when I call him back to ask if he know Mr. Rankeillor .
`` Hoot , ay , '' say he , `` and a very honest man .
And , O , by-the-by , '' say he , `` be it you that come in with Ebenezer ? ''
And when I have tell him yes , `` Ye 'll be no friend of his ? ''
he ask , meaning , in the Scottish way , that I would be no relative .
I tell him no , none .
`` I think not , '' say he , `` and yet ye have a kind of gliff * of Mr. Alexander . ''
* Look .
I say it seem that Ebenezer be ill-seen in the country .
`` Nae doubt , '' say the landlord .
`` He 's a wicked auld man , and there 's many would like to see him girning in the tow * .
Jennet Clouston and mony mair that he have harry out of house and hame .
And yet he be ance a fine young fellow , too .
But that be before the sough ** gaed abroad about Mr. Alexander , that be like the death of him . ''
* Rope .
** Report .
`` And what be it ? ''
I ask .
`` Ou , just that he have kill him , '' say the landlord .
`` Did ye never hear that ? ''
`` And what would he kill him for ? ''
say I . `` And what for , but just to get the place , '' say he .
`` The place ? ''
say I . `` The Shaws ? ''
`` Nae other place that I ken , '' say he .
`` Ay , man ? ''
say I . `` Is that so ?
Was my -- be Alexander the eldest son ? '' ''
` Deed be he , '' say the landlord .
`` What else would he have kill him for ? ''
And with that he go away , a he have be impatient to do from the beginning .
Of course , I have guess it a long while ago ; but it be one thing to guess , another to know ; and I sit stun with my good fortune , and could scarce grow to believe that the same poor lad who have trudge in the dust from Ettrick Forest not two day ago , be now one of the rich of the earth , and have a house and broad land , and might mount his horse tomorrow .
All these pleasant thing , and a thousand others , crowd into my mind , a I sit star before me out of the inn window , and pay no heed to what I saw ; only I remember that my eye light on Captain Hoseason down on the pier among his seaman , and speak with some authority .
And presently he come march back towards the house , with no mark of a sailor 's clumsiness , but carry his fine , tall figure with a manly bearing , and still with the same sober , grave expression on his face .
I wonder if it be possible that Ransome 's story could be true , and half disbelieve them ; they fit so ill with the man 's look .
But indeed , he be neither so good a I suppose him , nor quite so bad a Ransome do ; for , in fact , he be two men , and leave the good one behind as soon a he set foot on board his vessel .
The next thing , I hear my uncle call me , and find the pair in the road together .
It be the captain who address me , and that with an air -LRB- very flatter to a young lad -RRB- of grave equality .
`` Sir , '' say he , `` Mr. Balfour tell me great thing of you ; and for my own part , I like your look .
I wish I be for long here , that we might make the good friend ; but we 'll make the most of what we have .
Ye shall come on board my brig for half an hour , till the ebb set , and drink a bowl with me . ''
Now , I long to see the inside of a ship more than word can tell ; but I be not go to put myself in jeopardy , and I tell him my uncle and I have an appointment with a lawyer .
`` Ay , ay , '' say he , `` he pass me word of that .
But , ye see , the boat 'll set ye ashore at the town pier , and that 's but a penny stonecast from Rankeillor 's house . ''
And here he suddenly lean down and whisper in my ear : `` Take care of the old tod ; * he mean mischief .
Come aboard till I can get a word with ye . ''
And then , pass his arm through mine , he continue aloud , a he set off towards his boat : `` But , come , what can I bring ye from the Carolinas ?
Any friend of Mr. Balfour 's can command .
A roll of tobacco ?
Indian feather-work ?
a skin of a wild beast ?
a stone pipe ?
the mocking-bird that mew for all the world like a cat ?
the cardinal bird that be as red a blood ?
-- take your pick and say your pleasure . ''
* Fox .
By this time we be at the boat-side , and he be hand me in .
I do not dream of hang back ; I think -LRB- the poor fool ! -RRB-
that I have find a good friend and helper , and I be rejoice to see the ship .
As soon a we be all set in our place , the boat be thrust off from the pier and begin to move over the water : and what with my pleasure in this new movement and my surprise at our low position , and the appearance of the shore , and the grow bigness of the brig a we draw near to it , I could hardly understand what the captain say , and must have answer him at random .
As soon a we be alongside -LRB- where I sit fairly gap at the ship 's height , the strong humming of the tide against it side , and the pleasant cry of the seaman at their work -RRB- Hoseason , declare that he and I must be the first aboard , order a tackle to be send down from the main-yard .
In this I be whip into the air and set down again on the deck , where the captain stand ready wait for me , and instantly slip back his arm under mine .
There I stand some while , a little dizzy with the unsteadiness of all around me , perhaps a little afraid , and yet vastly please with these strange sight ; the captain meanwhile point out the strangest , and tell me their name and us .
`` But where be my uncle ? ''
say I suddenly .
`` Ay , '' say Hoseason , with a sudden grimness , `` that 's the point . ''
I felt I be lose .
With all my strength , I pluck myself clear of him and run to the bulwark .
Sure enough , there be the boat pull for the town , with my uncle sit in the stern .
I give a piercing cry -- `` Help , help !
Murder ! ''
-- so that both side of the anchorage rang with it , and my uncle turn round where he be sit , and show me a face full of cruelty and terror .
It be the last I saw .
Already strong hand have be pluck me back from the ship 's side ; and now a thunderbolt seem to strike me ; I saw a great flash of fire , and fell senseless .
CHAPTER VII I GO TO SEA IN THE BRIG `` COVENANT '' OF DYSART I come to myself in darkness , in great pain , bound hand and foot , and deafen by many unfamiliar noise .
There sound in my ear a roaring of water a of a huge mill-dam , the thrashing of heavy spray , the thundering of the sail , and the shrill cry of seaman .
The whole world now heave giddily up , and now rush giddily downward ; and so sick and hurt be I in body , and my mind so much confound , that it take me a long while , chase my thought up and down , and ever stun again by a fresh stab of pain , to realise that I must be lie somewhere bind in the belly of that unlucky ship , and that the wind must have strengthen to a gale .
With the clear perception of my plight , there fell upon me a blackness of despair , a horror of remorse at my own folly , and a passion of anger at my uncle , that once more bereft me of my sens .
When I return again to life , the same uproar , the same confused and violent movement , shook and deafen me ; and presently , to my other pain and distress , there be add the sickness of an unused landsman on the sea .
In that time of my adventurous youth , I suffer many hardship ; but none that be so crush to my mind and body , or lit by so few hope , a these first hour aboard the brig . I hear a gun fire , and suppose the storm have prove too strong for u , and we be fire signal of distress .
The thought of deliverance , even by death in the deep sea , be welcome to me .
Yet it be no such matter ; but -LRB- a I be afterwards tell -RRB- a common habit of the captain 's , which I here set down to show that even the bad man may have his kindly side .
We be then pass , it appear , within some mile of Dysart , where the brig be build , and where old Mrs. Hoseason , the captain 's mother , have come some year before to live ; and whether outward or inward bound , the Covenant be never suffer to go by that place by day , without a gun fire and colour show .
I have no measure of time ; day and night be alike in that ill-smelling cavern of the ship 's bowel where I lay ; and the misery of my situation draw out the hour to double .
How long , therefore , I lay wait to hear the ship split upon some rock , or to feel her reel head foremost into the depth of the sea , I have not the mean of computation .
But sleep at length stole from me the consciousness of sorrow .
I be awaken by the light of a hand-lantern shining in my face .
A small man of about thirty , with green eye and a tangle of fair hair , stand look down at me .
`` Well , '' say he , `` how go it ? ''
I answer by a sob ; and my visitor then felt my pulse and temple , and set himself to wash and dress the wound upon my scalp .
`` Ay , '' say he , `` a sore dunt * .
What , man ?
Cheer up !
The world 's no do ; you 've make a bad start of it but you 'll make a good .
Have you have any meat ? ''
* Stroke .
I say I could not look at it : and thereupon he give me some brandy and water in a tin pannikin , and leave me once more to myself .
The next time he come to see me , I be lie betwixt sleep and waking , my eye wide open in the darkness , the sickness quite depart , but succeed by a horrid giddiness and swimming that be almost bad to bear .
I ache , besides , in every limb , and the cord that bind me seem to be of fire .
The smell of the hole in which I lay seem to have become a part of me ; and during the long interval since his last visit I have suffer torture of fear , now from the scurrying of the ship 's rat , that sometimes patter on my very face , and now from the dismal imaginings that haunt the bed of fever .
The glimmer of the lantern , a a trap open , shone in like the heaven 's sunlight ; and though it only show me the strong , dark beam of the ship that be my prison , I could have cry aloud for gladness .
The man with the green eye be the first to descend the ladder , and I notice that he come somewhat unsteadily .
He be follow by the captain .
Neither say a word ; but the first set to and examine me , and dress my wound a before , while Hoseason look me in my face with an odd , black look .
`` Now , sir , you see for yourself , '' say the first : `` a high fever , no appetite , no light , no meat : you see for yourself what that mean . ''
`` I be no conjurer , Mr. Riach , '' say the captain .
`` Give me leave , sir , '' say Riach ; `` you 've a good head upon your shoulder , and a good Scotch tongue to ask with ; but I will leave you no manner of excuse ; I want that boy take out of this hole and put in the forecastle . ''
`` What ye may want , sir , be a matter of concern to nobody but yoursel ' , '' return the captain ; `` but I can tell ye that which be to be .
Here he be ; here he shall bide . ''
`` Admitting that you have be pay in a proportion , '' say the other , `` I will crave leave humbly to say that I have not .
Paid I be , and none too much , to be the second officer of this old tub , and you ken very well if I do my best to earn it .
But I be pay for nothing more . ''
`` If ye could hold back your hand from the tin-pan , Mr. Riach , I would have no complaint to make of ye , '' return the skipper ; `` and instead of ask riddle , I make bold to say that ye would keep your breath to cool your porridge .
We 'll be require on deck , '' he add , in a sharp note , and set one foot upon the ladder .
But Mr. Riach catch him by the sleeve .
`` Admitting that you have be pay to do a murder -- '' he begin .
Hoseason turn upon him with a flash .
`` What 's that ? ''
he cry .
`` What kind of talk be that ? ''
`` It seem it be the talk that you can understand , '' say Mr. Riach , look him steadily in the face .
`` Mr. Riach , I have sail with ye three cruise , '' reply the captain .
`` In all that time , sir , ye should have learn to know me : I 'm a stiff man , and a dour man ; but for what ye say the now -- fie , fie !
-- it come from a bad heart and a black conscience .
If ye say the lad will die -- '' `` Ay , will he ! ''
say Mr. Riach .
`` Well , sir , be not that enough ? ''
say Hoseason .
`` Flit him where ye please ! ''
Thereupon the captain ascend the ladder ; and I , who have lie silent throughout this strange conversation , behold Mr. Riach turn after him and bow as low a to his knee in what be plainly a spirit of derision .
Even in my then state of sickness , I perceive two thing : that the mate be touch with liquor , a the captain hint , and that -LRB- drunk or sober -RRB- he be like to prove a valuable friend .
Five minute afterwards my bond be cut , I be hoist on a man 's back , carry up to the forecastle , and laid in a bunk on some sea-blankets ; where the first thing that I do be to lose my sens .
It be a blessed thing indeed to open my eye again upon the daylight , and to find myself in the society of men .
The forecastle be a roomy place enough , set all about with berth , in which the men of the watch below be seat smoking , or lie down asleep .
The day be calm and the wind fair , the scuttle be open , and not only the good daylight , but from time to time -LRB- a the ship roll -RRB- a dusty beam of sunlight shone in , and dazzle and delight me .
I have no sooner move , moreover , than one of the men bring me a drink of something heal which Mr. Riach have prepare , and bid me lie still and I should soon be well again .
There be no bone broken , he explain : `` A clour * on the head be naething .
Man , '' say he , `` it be me that give it ye ! ''
* Blow .
Here I lay for the space of many day a close prisoner , and not only get my health again , but come to know my companion .
They be a rough lot indeed , a sailor mostly be : be men root out of all the kindly part of life , and condemn to toss together on the rough sea , with master no less cruel .
There be some among them that have sail with the pirate and see thing it would be a shame even to speak of ; some be men that have run from the king 's ship , and go with a halter round their neck , of which they make no secret ; and all , a the saying go , be `` at a word and a blow '' with their best friend .
Yet I have not be many day shut up with them before I begin to be ashamed of my first judgment , when I have draw away from them at the Ferry pier , a though they have be unclean beast .
No class of man be altogether bad , but each have it own fault and virtue ; and these shipmate of mine be no exception to the rule .
Rough they be , sure enough ; and bad , I suppose ; but they have many virtue .
They be kind when it occur to them , simple even beyond the simplicity of a country lad like me , and have some glimmering of honesty .
There be one man , of maybe forty , that would sit on my berthside for hour and tell me of his wife and child .
He be a fisher that have lose his boat , and thus be drive to the deep-sea voyaging .
Well , it be year ago now : but I have never forget him .
His wife -LRB- who be `` young by him , '' a he often tell me -RRB- wait in vain to see her man return ; he would never again make the fire for her in the morning , nor yet keep the bairn when she be sick .
Indeed , many of these poor fellow -LRB- a the event prove -RRB- be upon their last cruise ; the deep sea and cannibal fish receive them ; and it be a thankless business to speak ill of the dead .
Among other good deed that they do , they return my money , which have be share among them ; and though it be about a third short , I be very glad to get it , and hop great good from it in the land I be go to .
The ship be bind for the Carolinas ; and you must not suppose that I be go to that place merely a an exile .
The trade be even then much depress ; since that , and with the rebellion of the colony and the formation of the United States , it have , of course , come to an end ; but in those day of my youth , white men be still sell into slavery on the plantation , and that be the destiny to which my wicked uncle have condemn me .
The cabin-boy Ransome -LRB- from whom I have first heard of these atrocity -RRB- come in at time from the round-house , where he berth and serve , now nurse a bruised limb in silent agony , now rave against the cruelty of Mr. Shuan .
It make my heart bleed ; but the men have a great respect for the chief mate , who be , a they say , `` the only seaman of the whole jing-bang , and none such a bad man when he be sober . ''
Indeed , I find there be a strange peculiarity about our two mate : that Mr. Riach be sullen , unkind , and harsh when he be sober , and Mr. Shuan would not hurt a fly except when he be drink .
I ask about the captain ; but I be tell drink make no difference upon that man of iron .
I do my best in the small time allow me to make some thing like a man , or rather I should say something like a boy , of the poor creature , Ransome .
But his mind be scarce truly human .
He could remember nothing of the time before he come to sea ; only that his father have make clock , and have a starling in the parlour , which could whistle `` The North Countrie ; '' all else have be blot out in these year of hardship and cruelty .
He have a strange notion of the dry land , pick up from sailor 's story : that it be a place where lad be put to some kind of slavery call a trade , and where apprentice be continually lash and clap into foul prison .
In a town , he think every second person a decoy , and every third house a place in which seaman would be drug and murder .
To be sure , I would tell him how kindly I have myself be use upon that dry land he be so much afraid of , and how well fed and carefully teach both by my friend and my parent : and if he have be recently hurt , he would weep bitterly and swear to run away ; but if he be in his usual crackbrain humour , or -LRB- still more -RRB- if he have have a glass of spirit in the roundhouse , he would deride the notion .
It be Mr. Riach -LRB- Heaven forgive him ! -RRB-
who give the boy drink ; and it be , doubtless , kindly mean ; but besides that it be ruin to his health , it be the pitifullest thing in life to see this unhappy , unfriended creature staggering , and dancing , and talk he know not what .
Some of the men laugh , but not all ; others would grow as black a thunder -LRB- thinking , perhaps , of their own childhood or their own child -RRB- and bid him stop that nonsense , and think what he be do .
As for me , I felt ashamed to look at him , and the poor child still come about me in my dream .
All this time , you should know , the Covenant be meet continual head-winds and tumble up and down against head-seas , so that the scuttle be almost constantly shut , and the forecastle light only by a swing lantern on a beam .
There be constant labour for all hand ; the sail have to be make and shorten every hour ; the strain tell on the men 's temper ; there be a growl of quarrel all day long from berth to berth ; and a I be never allow to set my foot on deck , you can picture to yourselves how weary of my life I grow to be , and how impatient for a change .
And a change I be to get , a you shall hear ; but I must first tell of a conversation I have with Mr. Riach , which put a little heart in me to bear my trouble .
Getting him in a favourable stage of drink -LRB- for indeed he never look near me when he be sober -RRB- , I pledge him to secrecy , and tell him my whole story .
He declare it be like a ballad ; that he would do his best to help me ; that I should have paper , pen , and ink , and write one line to Mr. Campbell and another to Mr. Rankeillor ; and that if I have tell the truth , ten to one he would be able -LRB- with their help -RRB- to pull me through and set me in my right .
`` And in the meantime , '' say he , `` keep your heart up .
You 're not the only one , I 'll tell you that .
There 's many a man hoe tobacco over-seas that should be mount his horse at his own door at home ; many and many !
And life be all a variorum , at the best .
Look at me : I 'm a laird 's son and more than half a doctor , and here I be , man-Jack to Hoseason ! ''
I think it would be civil to ask him for his story .
He whistle loud .
`` Never have one , '' say he .
`` I like fun , that 's all . ''
And he skip out of the forecastle .
CHAPTER VIII THE ROUND-HOUSE One night , about eleven o'clock , a man of Mr. Riach 's watch -LRB- which be on deck -RRB- come below for his jacket ; and instantly there begin to go a whisper about the forecastle that `` Shuan have do for him at last . ''
There be no need of a name ; we all know who be mean ; but we have scarce time to get the idea rightly in our head , far less to speak of it , when the scuttle be again flung open , and Captain Hoseason come down the ladder .
He look sharply round the bunk in the toss light of the lantern ; and then , walk straight up to me , he address me , to my surprise , in tone of kindness .
`` My man , '' say he , `` we want ye to serve in the round-house .
You and Ransome be to change berth .
Run away aft with ye . ''
Even a he speak , two seaman appear in the scuttle , carry Ransome in their arm ; and the ship at that moment give a great sheer into the sea , and the lantern swinging , the light fell direct on the boy 's face .
It be as white a wax , and have a look upon it like a dreadful smile .
The blood in me run cold , and I draw in my breath a if I have be strike .
`` Run away aft ; run away aft with ye ! ''
cry Hoseason .
And at that I brush by the sailor and the boy -LRB- who neither speak nor move -RRB- , and run up the ladder on deck .
The brig be sheer swiftly and giddily through a long , crest swell .
She be on the starboard tack , and on the left hand , under the arched foot of the foresail , I could see the sunset still quite bright .
This , at such an hour of the night , surprise me greatly ; but I be too ignorant to draw the true conclusion -- that we be go north-about round Scotland , and be now on the high sea between the Orkney and Shetland Islands , have avoid the dangerous current of the Pentland Firth .
For my part , who have be so long shut in the dark and know nothing of head-winds , I think we might be half-way or more across the Atlantic .
And indeed -LRB- beyond that I wonder a little at the lateness of the sunset light -RRB- I give no heed to it , and push on across the deck , run between the sea , catch at rope , and only save from go overboard by one of the hand on deck , who have be always kind to me .
The round-house , for which I be bind , and where I be now to sleep and serve , stand some six foot above the deck , and consider the size of the brig , be of good dimension .
Inside be a fix table and bench , and two berth , one for the captain and the other for the two mate , turn and turn about .
It be all fit with locker from top to bottom , so a to stow away the officer ' belonging and a part of the ship 's store ; there be a second store-room underneath , which you enter by a hatchway in the middle of the deck ; indeed , all the best of the meat and drink and the whole of the powder be collect in this place ; and all the firearm , except the two piece of brass ordnance , be set in a rack in the aftermost wall of the round-house .
The most of the cutlass be in another place .
A small window with a shutter on each side , and a skylight in the roof , give it light by day ; and after dark there be a lamp always burn .
It be burn when I enter , not brightly , but enough to show Mr. Shuan sit at the table , with the brandy bottle and a tin pannikin in front of him .
He be a tall man , strongly make and very black ; and he star before him on the table like one stupid .
He take no notice of my come in ; nor do he move when the captain follow and leant on the berth beside me , look darkly at the mate .
I stand in great fear of Hoseason , and have my reason for it ; but something tell me I need not be afraid of him just then ; and I whisper in his ear : `` How be he ? ''
He shake his head like one that do not know and do not wish to think , and his face be very stern .
Presently Mr. Riach come in .
He give the captain a glance that mean the boy be dead as plain a speaking , and take his place like the rest of u ; so that we all three stand without a word , star down at Mr. Shuan , and Mr. Shuan -LRB- on his side -RRB- sit without a word , look hard upon the table .
All of a sudden he put out his hand to take the bottle ; and at that Mr. Riach start forward and catch it away from him , rather by surprise than violence , cry out , with an oath , that there have be too much of this work altogether , and that a judgment would fall upon the ship .
And a he speak -LRB- the weather sliding-doors stand open -RRB- he toss the bottle into the sea .
Mr. Shuan be on his foot in a trice ; he still look dazed , but he mean murder , ay , and would have do it , for the second time that night , have not the captain step in between him and his victim .
`` Sit down ! ''
roar the captain .
`` Ye sot and swine , do ye know what ye 've do ?
Ye 've murder the boy ! ''
Mr. Shuan seem to understand ; for he sit down again , and put up his hand to his brow .
`` Well , '' he say , `` he bring me a dirty pannikin ! ''
At that word , the captain and I and Mr. Riach all look at each other for a second with a kind of frightened look ; and then Hoseason walk up to his chief officer , take him by the shoulder , lead him across to his bunk , and bid him lie down and go to sleep , a you might speak to a bad child .
The murderer cry a little , but he take off his sea-boots and obeyed .
`` Ah ! ''
cried Mr. Riach , with a dreadful voice , `` ye should have interfere long syne .
It 's too late now . ''
`` Mr. Riach , '' say the captain , `` this night 's work must never be kennt in Dysart .
The boy go overboard , sir ; that 's what the story be ; and I would give five pound out of my pocket it be true ! ''
He turn to the table .
`` What make ye throw the good bottle away ? ''
he add .
`` There be nae sense in that , sir .
Here , David , draw me another .
They 're in the bottom locker ; '' and he toss me a key .
`` Ye 'll need a glass yourself , sir , '' he add to Riach .
`` Yon be an ugly thing to see . ''
So the pair sit down and hob-a-nobbed ; and while they do so , the murderer , who have be lie and whimper in his berth , raise himself upon his elbow and look at them and at me .
That be the first night of my new duty ; and in the course of the next day I have get well into the run of them .
I have to serve at the meal , which the captain take at regular hour , sit down with the officer who be off duty ; all the day through I would be run with a dram to one or other of my three master ; and at night I sleep on a blanket thrown on the deck board at the aftermost end of the round-house , and right in the draught of the two door .
It be a hard and a cold bed ; nor be I suffer to sleep without interruption ; for some one would be always come in from deck to get a dram , and when a fresh watch be to be set , two and sometimes all three would sit down and brew a bowl together .
How they keep their health , I know not , any more than how I keep my own .
And yet in other way it be an easy service .
There be no cloth to lay ; the meal be either of oatmeal porridge or salt junk , except twice a week , when there be duff : and though I be clumsy enough and -LRB- not be firm on my sealegs -RRB- sometimes fell with what I be bring them , both Mr. Riach and the captain be singularly patient .
I could not but fancy they be make up lee-way with their conscience , and that they would scarce have be so good with me if they have not be bad with Ransome .
As for Mr. Shuan , the drink or his crime , or the two together , have certainly trouble his mind .
I can not say I ever saw him in his proper wit .
He never grow use to my be there , star at me continually -LRB- sometimes , I could have think , with terror -RRB- , and more than once draw back from my hand when I be serve him .
I be pretty sure from the first that he have no clear mind of what he have do , and on my second day in the round-house I have the proof of it .
We be alone , and he have be star at me a long time , when all at once , up he get , as pale a death , and come close up to me , to my great terror .
But I have no cause to be afraid of him .
`` You be not here before ? ''
he ask .
`` No , sir , '' say I. '' `` There be another boy ? ''
he ask again ; and when I have answer him , `` Ah ! ''
say he , `` I think that , '' and go and sit down , without another word , except to call for brandy .
You may think it strange , but for all the horror I have , I be still sorry for him .
He be a married man , with a wife in Leith ; but whether or no he have a family , I have now forget ; I hope not .
Altogether it be no very hard life for the time it last , which -LRB- a you be to hear -RRB- be not long .
I be as well fed a the best of them ; even their pickle , which be the great dainty , I be allow my share of ; and have I like I might have be drink from morning to night , like Mr. Shuan .
I have company , too , and good company of it sort .
Mr. Riach , who have be to the college , speak to me like a friend when he be not sulk , and tell me many curious thing , and some that be inform ; and even the captain , though he keep me at the stick 's end the most part of the time , would sometimes unbuckle a bit , and tell me of the fine country he have visit .
The shadow of poor Ransome , to be sure , lay on all four of u , and on me and Mr. Shuan in particular , most heavily .
And then I have another trouble of my own .
Here I be , do dirty work for three men that I look down upon , and one of whom , at least , should have hang upon a gallows ; that be for the present ; and a for the future , I could only see myself slave alongside of negro in the tobacco field .
Mr. Riach , perhaps from caution , would never suffer me to say another word about my story ; the captain , whom I try to approach , rebuff me like a dog and would not hear a word ; and a the day come and go , my heart sink low and low , till I be even glad of the work which keep me from think .
CHAPTER IX THE MAN WITH THE BELT OF GOLD More than a week go by , in which the ill-luck that have hitherto pursue the Covenant upon this voyage grow yet more strongly mark .
Some day she make a little way ; others , she be drive actually back .
At last we be beat so far to the south that we toss and tack to and fro the whole of the ninth day , within sight of Cape Wrath and the wild , rocky coast on either hand of it .
There follow on that a council of the officer , and some decision which I do not rightly understand , see only the result : that we have make a fair wind of a foul one and be run south .
The tenth afternoon there be a fall swell and a thick , wet , white fog that hide one end of the brig from the other .
All afternoon , when I go on deck , I saw men and officer listen hard over the bulwark -- `` for breaker , '' they say ; and though I do not so much a understand the word , I felt danger in the air , and be excite .
Maybe about ten at night , I be serve Mr. Riach and the captain at their supper , when the ship strike something with a great sound , and we hear voice sing out .
My two master leap to their foot .
`` She 's struck ! ''
say Mr. Riach .
`` No , sir , '' say the captain .
`` We 've only run a boat down . ''
And they hurry out .
The captain be in the right of it .
We have run down a boat in the fog , and she have part in the midst and go to the bottom with all her crew but one .
This man -LRB- a I hear afterwards -RRB- have be sit in the stern a a passenger , while the rest be on the bench rowing .
At the moment of the blow , the stern have be throw into the air , and the man -LRB- have his hand free , and for all he be encumber with a frieze overcoat that come below his knee -RRB- have leap up and caught hold of the brig 's bowsprit .
It show he have luck and much agility and unusual strength , that he should have thus save himself from such a pas .
And yet , when the captain bring him into the round-house , and I set eye on him for the first time , he look as cool a I do .
He be smallish in stature , but well set and as nimble a a goat ; his face be of a good open expression , but sunburnt very dark , and heavily freckle and pit with the small-pox ; his eye be unusually light and have a kind of dance madness in them , that be both engage and alarm ; and when he take off his great-coat , he lay a pair of fine silver-mounted pistol on the table , and I saw that he be belt with a great sword .
His manner , besides , be elegant , and he pledge the captain handsomely .
Altogether I think of him , at the first sight , that here be a man I would rather call my friend than my enemy .
The captain , too , be take his observation , but rather of the man 's clothes than his person .
And to be sure , as soon a he have take off the great-coat , he show forth mighty fine for the round-house of a merchant brig : have a hat with feather , a red waistcoat , breech of black plush , and a blue coat with silver button and handsome silver lace ; costly clothes , though somewhat spoil with the fog and be sleep in .
`` I 'm vexed , sir , about the boat , '' say the captain .
`` There be some pretty men go to the bottom , '' say the stranger , `` that I would rather see on the dry land again than half a score of boat . ''
`` Friends of yours ? ''
say Hoseason .
`` You have none such friend in your country , '' be the reply .
`` They would have die for me like dog . ''
`` Well , sir , '' say the captain , still watch him , `` there be more men in the world than boat to put them in . ''
`` And that 's true , too , '' cry the other , `` and ye seem to be a gentleman of great penetration . ''
`` I have be in France , sir , '' say the captain , so that it be plain he mean more by the word than show upon the face of them .
`` Well , sir , '' say the other , `` and so have many a pretty man , for the matter of that . ''
`` No doubt , sir , '' say the captain , `` and fine coat . ''
`` Oho ! ''
say the stranger , `` be that how the wind set ? ''
And he lay his hand quickly on his pistol .
`` Do n't be hasty , '' say the captain .
`` Do n't do a mischief before ye see the need of it .
Ye 've a French soldier 's coat upon your back and a Scotch tongue in your head , to be sure ; but so have many an honest fellow in these day , and I dare say none the bad of it . ''
`` So ? ''
say the gentleman in the fine coat : `` be ye of the honest party ? ''
-LRB- meaning , Was he a Jacobite ?
for each side , in these sort of civil broil , take the name of honesty for it own -RRB- .
`` Why , sir , '' reply the captain , `` I be a true-blue Protestant , and I thank God for it . ''
-LRB- It be the first word of any religion I have ever hear from him , but I learn afterwards he be a great church-goer while on shore . -RRB-
`` But , for all that , '' say he , `` I can be sorry to see another man with his back to the wall . ''
`` Can ye so , indeed ? ''
ask the Jacobite .
`` Well , sir , to be quite plain with ye , I be one of those honest gentleman that be in trouble about the year forty-five and six ; and -LRB- to be still quite plain with ye -RRB- if I get into the hand of any of the red-coated gentry , it 's like it would go hard with me .
Now , sir , I be for France ; and there be a French ship cruise here to pick me up ; but she give u the go-by in the fog -- a I wish from the heart that ye have do yoursel ' !
And the best that I can say be this : If ye can set me ashore where I be go , I have that upon me will reward you highly for your trouble . ''
`` In France ? ''
say the captain .
`` No , sir ; that I can not do .
But where ye come from -- we might talk of that . ''
And then , unhappily , he observe me stand in my corner , and pack me off to the galley to get supper for the gentleman .
I lose no time , I promise you ; and when I come back into the round-house , I find the gentleman have take a money-belt from about his waist , and pour out a guinea or two upon the table .
The captain be look at the guinea , and then at the belt , and then at the gentleman 's face ; and I think he seem excited .
`` Half of it , '' he cry , `` and I 'm your man ! ''
The other sweep back the guinea into the belt , and put it on again under his waistcoat .
`` I have tell ye sir , '' say he , `` that not one doit of it belong to me .
It belong to my chieftain , '' and here he touch his hat , `` and while I would be but a silly messenger to grudge some of it that the rest might come safe , I should show myself a hound indeed if I buy my own carcase any too dear .
Thirty guinea on the sea-side , or sixty if ye set me on the Linnhe Loch .
Take it , if ye will ; if not , ye can do your bad . ''
`` Ay , '' say Hoseason .
`` And if I give ye over to the soldier ? ''
`` Ye would make a fool 's bargain , '' say the other .
`` My chief , let me tell you , sir , be forfeit , like every honest man in Scotland .
His estate be in the hand of the man they call King George ; and it be his officer that collect the rent , or try to collect them .
But for the honour of Scotland , the poor tenant body take a thought upon their chief lie in exile ; and this money be a part of that very rent for which King George be look .
Now , sir , ye seem to me to be a man that understand thing : bring this money within the reach of Government , and how much of it 'll come to you ? ''
`` Little enough , to be sure , '' say Hoseason ; and then , `` if they know , '' he add , drily .
`` But I think , if I be to try , that I could hold my tongue about it . ''
`` Ah , but I 'll begowk * ye there ! ''
cry the gentleman .
`` Play me false , and I 'll play you cunning .
If a hand be lay upon me , they shall ken what money it be . ''
* Befool .
`` Well , '' return the captain , `` what must be must .
Sixty guinea , and do .
Here 's my hand upon it . ''
`` And here 's mine , '' say the other .
And thereupon the captain go out -LRB- rather hurriedly , I think -RRB- , and leave me alone in the round-house with the stranger .
At that period -LRB- so soon after the forty-five -RRB- there be many exiled gentleman come back at the peril of their life , either to see their friend or to collect a little money ; and a for the Highland chief that have be forfeit , it be a common matter of talk how their tenant would stint themselves to send them money , and their clansman outface the soldiery to get it in , and run the gauntlet of our great navy to carry it across .
All this I have , of course , heard tell of ; and now I have a man under my eye whose life be forfeit on all these count and upon one more , for he be not only a rebel and a smuggler of rent , but have take service with King Louis of France .
And a if all this be not enough , he have a belt full of golden guinea round his loin .
Whatever my opinion , I could not look on such a man without a lively interest .
`` And so you 're a Jacobite ? ''
say I , a I set meat before him .
`` Ay , '' say he , begin to eat .
`` And you , by your long face , should be a Whig ? ''
* * Whig or Whigamore be the cant name for those who be loyal to King George .
`` Betwixt and between , '' say I , not to annoy him ; for indeed I be as good a Whig a Mr. Campbell could make me .
`` And that 's naething , '' say he .
`` But I 'm say , Mr. Betwixt-and-Between , '' he add , `` this bottle of yours be dry ; and it 's hard if I 'm to pay sixty guinea and be grudge a dram upon the back of it . ''
`` I 'll go and ask for the key , '' say I , and step on deck .
The fog be as close a ever , but the swell almost down .
They have lay the brig to , not know precisely where they be , and the wind -LRB- what little there be of it -RRB- not serve well for their true course .
Some of the hand be still hearken for breaker ; but the captain and the two officer be in the waist with their head together .
It strike me -LRB- I do n't know why -RRB- that they be after no good ; and the first word I hear , a I draw softly near , more than confirm me .
It be Mr. Riach , cry out a if upon a sudden thought : `` Could n't we wile him out of the round-house ? ''
`` He 's good where he be , '' return Hoseason ; `` he have n't room to use his sword . ''
`` Well , that 's true , '' say Riach ; `` but he 's hard to come at . ''
`` Hut ! ''
say Hoseason .
`` We can get the man in talk , one upon each side , and pin him by the two arm ; or if that 'll not hold , sir , we can make a run by both the door and get him under hand before he have the time to draw . ''
At this hearing , I be seize with both fear and anger at these treacherous , greedy , bloody men that I sail with .
My first mind be to run away ; my second be bolder .
`` Captain , '' say I , `` the gentleman be seek a dram , and the bottle 's out .
Will you give me the key ? ''
They all start and turn about .
`` Why , here 's our chance to get the firearm ! ''
Riach cry ; and then to me : `` Hark ye , David , '' he say , `` do ye ken where the pistol be ? ''
`` Ay , ay , '' put in Hoseason .
`` David kens ; David 's a good lad .
Ye see , David my man , yon wild Hielandman be a danger to the ship , besides be a rank foe to King George , God bless him ! ''
I have never be so be-Davided since I come on board : but I say Yes , a if all I hear be quite natural .
`` The trouble be , '' resume the captain , `` that all our firelock , great and little , be in the round-house under this man 's nose ; likewise the powder .
Now , if I , or one of the officer , be to go in and take them , he would fall to think .
But a lad like you , David , might snap up a horn and a pistol or two without remark .
And if ye can do it cleverly , I 'll bear it in mind when it 'll be good for you to have friend ; and that 's when we come to Carolina . ''
Here Mr. Riach whisper him a little .
`` Very right , sir , '' say the captain ; and then to myself : `` And see here , David , yon man have a beltful of gold , and I give you my word that you shall have your finger in it . ''
I tell him I would do a he wish , though indeed I have scarce breath to speak with ; and upon that he give me the key of the spirit locker , and I begin to go slowly back to the round-house .
What be I to do ?
They be dog and thief ; they have steal me from my own country ; they have kill poor Ransome ; and be I to hold the candle to another murder ?
But then , upon the other hand , there be the fear of death very plain before me ; for what could a boy and a man , if they be as brave a lion , against a whole ship 's company ?
I be still argue it back and forth , and get no great clearness , when I come into the round-house and saw the Jacobite eat his supper under the lamp ; and at that my mind be make up all in a moment .
I have no credit by it ; it be by no choice of mine , but a if by compulsion , that I walk right up to the table and put my hand on his shoulder .
`` Do ye want to be kill ? ''
say I .
He spring to his foot , and look a question at me as clear a if he have speak .
`` O ! ''
cry I , `` they 're all murderer here ; it 's a ship full of them !
They 've murder a boy already .
Now it 's you . ''
`` Ay , ay , '' say he ; `` but they have n't get me yet . ''
And then look at me curiously , `` Will ye stand with me ? ''
`` That will I ! ''
say I . `` I be no thief , nor yet murderer .
I 'll stand by you . ''
`` Why , then , '' say he , `` what 's your name ? ''
`` David Balfour , '' say I ; and then , think that a man with so fine a coat must like fine people , I add for the first time , `` of Shaws . ''
It never occur to him to doubt me , for a Highlander be use to see great gentlefolk in great poverty ; but a he have no estate of his own , my word nettle a very childish vanity he have .
`` My name be Stewart , '' he say , draw himself up .
`` Alan Breck , they call me .
A king 's name be good enough for me , though I bear it plain and have the name of no farm-midden to clap to the hind-end of it . ''
And have administer this rebuke , a though it be something of a chief importance , he turn to examine our defence .
The round-house be build very strong , to support the breaching of the sea .
Of it five aperture , only the skylight and the two door be large enough for the passage of a man .
The door , besides , could be draw close : they be of stout oak , and run in groove , and be fit with hook to keep them either shut or open , a the need arose .
The one that be already shut I secure in this fashion ; but when I be proceed to slide to the other , Alan stop me .
`` David , '' say he -- `` for I cannae bring to mind the name of your landed estate , and so will make so bold a to call you David -- that door , be open , be the best part of my defence . ''
`` It would be yet good shut , '' say I . `` Not so , David , '' say he .
`` Ye see , I have but one face ; but so long a that door be open and my face to it , the best part of my enemy will be in front of me , where I would aye wish to find them . ''
Then he give me from the rack a cutlas -LRB- of which there be a few besides the firearm -RRB- , choose it with great care , shake his head and say he have never in all his life see poor weapon ; and next he set me down to the table with a powder-horn , a bag of bullet and all the pistol , which he bid me charge .
`` And that will be good work , let me tell you , '' say he , `` for a gentleman of decent birth , than scrap plate and raxing * dram to a wheen tarry sailor . ''
* Reaching .
Thereupon he stand up in the midst with his face to the door , and draw his great sword , make trial of the room he have to wield it in .
`` I must stick to the point , '' he say , shake his head ; `` and that 's a pity , too .
It do n't set my genius , which be all for the upper guard .
And , now , '' say he , `` do you keep on charge the pistol , and give heed to me . ''
I tell him I would listen closely .
My chest be tight , my mouth dry , the light dark to my eye ; the thought of the number that be soon to leap in upon u keep my heart in a flutter : and the sea , which I hear wash round the brig , and where I think my dead body would be cast ere morning , ran in my mind strangely .
`` First of all , '' say he , `` how many be against u ? ''
I reckon them up ; and such be the hurry of my mind , I have to cast the number twice .
`` Fifteen , '' say I. Alan whistle .
`` Well , '' say he , `` that ca n't be cure .
And now follow me .
It be my part to keep this door , where I look for the main battle .
In that , ye have no hand .
And mind and dinnae fire to this side unless they get me down ; for I would rather have ten foe in front of me than one friend like you crack pistol at my back . ''
I tell him , indeed I be no great shot .
`` And that 's very bravely say , '' he cry , in a great admiration of my candour .
`` There 's many a pretty gentleman that wouldnae dare to say it . ''
`` But then , sir , '' say I , `` there be the door behind you , which they may perhaps break in . ''
`` Ay , '' say he , `` and that be a part of your work .
No sooner the pistol charge , than ye must climb up into yon bed where ye 're handy at the window ; and if they lift hand against the door , ye 're to shoot .
But that 's not all .
Let 's make a bit of a soldier of ye , David .
What else have ye to guard ? ''
`` There 's the skylight , '' say I . `` But indeed , Mr. Stewart , I would need to have eye upon both side to keep the two of them ; for when my face be at the one , my back be to the other . ''
`` And that 's very true , '' say Alan .
`` But have ye no ear to your head ? ''
`` To be sure ! ''
cry I . `` I must hear the bursting of the glass ! ''
`` Ye have some rudiment of sense , '' say Alan , grimly .
CHAPTER X THE SIEGE OF THE ROUND-HOUSE But now our time of truce be come to an end .
Those on deck have wait for my come till they grow impatient ; and scarce have Alan speak , when the captain show face in the open door .
`` Stand ! ''
cry Alan , and point his sword at him .
The captain stand , indeed ; but he neither wince nor draw back a foot .
`` A naked sword ? ''
say he .
`` This be a strange return for hospitality . ''
`` Do ye see me ? ''
say Alan .
`` I be come of king ; I bear a king 's name .
My badge be the oak .
Do ye see my sword ?
It have slash the head off mair Whigamores than you have toe upon your foot .
Call up your vermin to your back , sir , and fall on !
The sooner the clash begin , the sooner ye 'll taste this steel throughout your vitals . ''
The captain say nothing to Alan , but he look over at me with an ugly look .
`` David , '' say he , `` I 'll mind this ; '' and the sound of his voice go through me with a jar .
Next moment he be go .
`` And now , '' say Alan , `` let your hand keep your head , for the grip be come . ''
Alan draw a dirk , which he hold in his left hand in case they should run in under his sword .
I , on my part , clamber up into the berth with an armful of pistol and something of a heavy heart , and set open the window where I be to watch .
It be a small part of the deck that I could overlook , but enough for our purpose .
The sea have go down , and the wind be steady and keep the sail quiet ; so that there be a great stillness in the ship , in which I make sure I hear the sound of mutter voice .
A little after , and there come a clash of steel upon the deck , by which I know they be deal out the cutlass and one have be let fall ; and after that , silence again .
I do not know if I be what you call afraid ; but my heart beat like a bird 's , both quick and little ; and there be a dimness come before my eye which I continually rub away , and which continually return .
As for hope , I have none ; but only a darkness of despair and a sort of anger against all the world that make me long to sell my life as dear a I be able .
I try to pray , I remember , but that same hurry of my mind , like a man running , would not suffer me to think upon the word ; and my chief wish be to have the thing begin and be do with it .
It come all of a sudden when it do , with a rush of foot and a roar , and then a shout from Alan , and a sound of blow and some one cry out a if hurt .
I look back over my shoulder , and saw Mr. Shuan in the doorway , cross blade with Alan .
`` That 's him that kill the boy ! ''
I cry .
`` Look to your window ! ''
say Alan ; and a I turn back to my place , I saw him pass his sword through the mate 's body .
It be none too soon for me to look to my own part ; for my head be scarce back at the window , before five men , carry a spare yard for a battering-ram , run past me and take post to drive the door in .
I have never fire with a pistol in my life , and not often with a gun ; far less against a fellow-creature .
But it be now or never ; and just a they swang the yard , I cry out : `` Take that ! ''
and shot into their midst .
I must have hit one of them , for he sing out and give back a step , and the rest stop a if a little disconcerted .
Before they have time to recover , I send another ball over their head ; and at my third shot -LRB- which go a wide a the second -RRB- the whole party throw down the yard and ran for it .
Then I look round again into the deck-house .
The whole place be full of the smoke of my own firing , just a my ear seem to be burst with the noise of the shot .
But there be Alan , stand a before ; only now his sword be run blood to the hilt , and himself so swell with triumph and fall into so fine an attitude , that he look to be invincible .
Right before him on the floor be Mr. Shuan , on his hand and knee ; the blood be pour from his mouth , and he be sink slowly low , with a terrible , white face ; and just a I look , some of those from behind caught hold of him by the heel and drag him bodily out of the round-house .
I believe he die a they be do it .
`` There 's one of your Whigs for ye ! ''
cried Alan ; and then turn to me , he ask if I have do much execution .
I tell him I have wing one , and think it be the captain .
`` And I 've settle two , '' say he .
`` No , there 's not enough blood let ; they 'll be back again .
To your watch , David .
This be but a dram before meat . ''
I settle back to my place , re-charging the three pistol I have fire , and keep watch with both eye and ear .
Our enemy be dispute not far off upon the deck , and that so loudly that I could hear a word or two above the washing of the sea .
`` It be Shuan bauchled * it , '' I hear one say .
* Bungled .
And another answer him with a `` Wheesht , man !
He 's pay the piper . ''
After that the voice fell again into the same muttering a before .
Only now , one person speak most of the time , a though lay down a plan , and first one and then another answer him briefly , like men take order .
By this , I make sure they be come on again , and tell Alan .
`` It 's what we have to pray for , '' say he .
`` Unless we can give them a good distaste of u , and do with it , there 'll be nae sleep for either you or me .
But this time , mind , they 'll be in earnest . ''
By this , my pistol be ready , and there be nothing to do but listen and wait .
While the brush last , I have not the time to think if I be fright ; but now , when all be still again , my mind run upon nothing else .
The thought of the sharp sword and the cold steel be strong in me ; and presently , when I begin to hear stealthy step and a brushing of men 's clothes against the round-house wall , and know they be take their place in the dark , I could have find it in my mind to cry out aloud .
All this be upon Alan 's side ; and I have begin to think my share of the fight be at an end , when I hear some one drop softly on the roof above me .
Then there come a single call on the sea-pipe , and that be the signal .
A knot of them make one rush of it , cutlas in hand , against the door ; and at the same moment , the glass of the skylight be dash in a thousand piece , and a man leap through and land on the floor .
Before he get his foot , I have clap a pistol to his back , and might have shoot him , too ; only at the touch of him -LRB- and him alive -RRB- my whole flesh misgive me , and I could no more pull the trigger than I could have fly .
He have drop his cutlas a he jump , and when he felt the pistol , whip straight round and lay hold of me , roar out an oath ; and at that either my courage come again , or I grow so much afraid a come to the same thing ; for I give a shriek and shot him in the midst of the body .
He give the most horrible , ugly groan and fell to the floor .
The foot of a second fellow , whose leg be dangle through the skylight , strike me at the same time upon the head ; and at that I snatch another pistol and shot this one through the thigh , so that he slip through and tumble in a lump on his companion 's body .
There be no talk of miss , any more than there be time to aim ; I clap the muzzle to the very place and fire .
I might have stand and star at them for long , but I hear Alan shout a if for help , and that bring me to my sens .
He have keep the door so long ; but one of the seaman , while he be engage with others , have run in under his guard and catch him about the body .
Alan be dirking him with his left hand , but the fellow clung like a leech .
Another have break in and have his cutlas raise .
The door be throng with their face .
I think we be lose , and catch up my cutlas , fell on them in flank .
But I have not time to be of help .
The wrestler drop at last ; and Alan , leap back to get his distance , run upon the others like a bull , roar a he go .
They break before him like water , turning , and running , and fall one against another in their haste .
The sword in his hand flash like quicksilver into the huddle of our flee enemy ; and at every flash there come the scream of a man hurt .
I be still think we be lose , when lo !
they be all go , and Alan be drive them along the deck a a sheep-dog chase sheep .
Yet he be no sooner out than he be back again , be as cautious a he be brave ; and meanwhile the seaman continue run and cry out a if he be still behind them ; and we hear them tumble one upon another into the forecastle , and clap-to the hatch upon the top .
The round-house be like a shamble ; three be dead inside , another lay in his death agony across the threshold ; and there be Alan and I victorious and unhurt .
He come up to me with open arm .
`` Come to my arm ! ''
he cry , and embrace and kiss me hard upon both cheek .
`` David , '' say he , `` I love you like a brother .
And O , man , '' he cry in a kind of ecstasy , `` be I no a bonny fighter ? ''
Thereupon he turn to the four enemy , pass his sword clean through each of them , and tumble them out of door one after the other .
As he do so , he keep hum and sing and whistle to himself , like a man try to recall an air ; only what HE be try be to make one .
All the while , the flush be in his face , and his eye be as bright a a five-year-old child 's with a new toy .
And presently he sit down upon the table , sword in hand ; the air that he be make all the time begin to run a little clearer , and then clearer still ; and then out he burst with a great voice into a Gaelic song .
I have translate it here , not in verse -LRB- of which I have no skill -RRB- but at least in the king 's English .
He sing it often afterwards , and the thing become popular ; so that I have hear it and have it explain to me , many 's the time .
`` This be the song of the sword of Alan ; The smith make it , The fire set it ; Now it shin in the hand of Alan Breck .
`` Their eye be many and bright , Swift be they to behold , Many the hand they guide : The sword be alone .
`` The dun deer troop over the hill , They be many , the hill be one ; The dun deer vanish , The hill remain .
`` Come to me from the hill of heather , Come from the isle of the sea .
O far-beholding eagle , Here be your meat . ''
Now this song which he make -LRB- both word and music -RRB- in the hour of our victory , be something less than just to me , who stand beside him in the tussle .
Mr. Shuan and five more be either kill outright or thoroughly disabled ; but of these , two fell by my hand , the two that come by the skylight .
Four more be hurt , and of that number , one -LRB- and he not the least important -RRB- get his hurt from me .
So that , altogether , I do my fair share both of the killing and the wounding , and might have claim a place in Alan 's verse .
But poet have to think upon their rhyme ; and in good prose talk , Alan always do me more than justice .
In the meanwhile , I be innocent of any wrong be do me .
For not only I know no word of the Gaelic ; but what with the long suspense of the waiting , and the scurry and strain of our two spirt of fighting , and more than all , the horror I have of some of my own share in it , the thing be no sooner over than I be glad to stagger to a seat .
There be that tightness on my chest that I could hardly breathe ; the thought of the two men I have shoot sat upon me like a nightmare ; and all upon a sudden , and before I have a guess of what be come , I begin to sob and cry like any child .
Alan clap my shoulder , and say I be a brave lad and want nothing but a sleep .
`` I 'll take the first watch , '' say he .
`` Ye 've do well by me , David , first and last ; and I would n't lose you for all Appin -- no , nor for Breadalbane . ''
So I make up my bed on the floor ; and he take the first spell , pistol in hand and sword on knee , three hour by the captain 's watch upon the wall .
Then he rouse me up , and I take my turn of three hour ; before the end of which it be broad day , and a very quiet morning , with a smooth , roll sea that toss the ship and make the blood run to and fro on the round-house floor , and a heavy rain that drum upon the roof .
All my watch there be nothing stirring ; and by the banging of the helm , I know they have even no one at the tiller .
Indeed -LRB- a I learn afterwards -RRB- there be so many of them hurt or dead , and the rest in so ill a temper , that Mr. Riach and the captain have to take turn and turn like Alan and me , or the brig might have go ashore and nobody the wiser .
It be a mercy the night have fall so still , for the wind have go down as soon a the rain begin .
Even a it be , I judge by the wailing of a great number of gull that go cry and fish round the ship , that she must have drift pretty near the coast or one of the island of the Hebrides ; and at last , look out of the door of the round-house , I saw the great stone hill of Skye on the right hand , and , a little more astern , the strange isle of Rum .
CHAPTER XI THE CAPTAIN KNUCKLES UNDER Alan and I sit down to breakfast about six of the clock .
The floor be cover with broken glass and in a horrid mess of blood , which take away my hunger .
In all other way we be in a situation not only agreeable but merry ; have oust the officer from their own cabin , and have at command all the drink in the ship -- both wine and spirit -- and all the dainty part of what be eatable , such a the pickle and the fine sort of bread .
This , of itself , be enough to set u in good humour , but the rich part of it be this , that the two thirsty men that ever come out of Scotland -LRB- Mr. Shuan be dead -RRB- be now shut in the fore-part of the ship and condemn to what they hat most -- cold water .
`` And depend upon it , '' Alan say , `` we shall hear more of them ere long .
Ye may keep a man from the fighting , but never from his bottle . ''
We make good company for each other .
Alan , indeed , express himself most lovingly ; and take a knife from the table , cut me off one of the silver button from his coat .
`` I have them , '' say he , `` from my father , Duncan Stewart ; and now give ye one of them to be a keepsake for last night 's work .
And wherever ye go and show that button , the friend of Alan Breck will come around you . ''
He say this a if he have be Charlemagne , and command army ; and indeed , much a I admire his courage , I be always in danger of smile at his vanity : in danger , I say , for have I not keep my countenance , I would be afraid to think what a quarrel might have follow .
As soon a we be through with our meal he rummage in the captain 's locker till he find a clothes-brush ; and then take off his coat , begin to visit his suit and brush away the stain , with such care and labour a I suppose to have be only usual with woman .
To be sure , he have no other ; and , besides -LRB- a he say -RRB- , it belong to a king and so behove to be royally look after .
For all that , when I saw what care he take to pluck out the thread where the button have be cut away , I put a high value on his gift .
He be still so engaged when we be hail by Mr. Riach from the deck , ask for a parley ; and I , climb through the skylight and sit on the edge of it , pistol in hand and with a bold front , though inwardly in fear of broken glass , hail him back again and bid him speak out .
He come to the edge of the round-house , and stand on a coil of rope , so that his chin be on a level with the roof ; and we look at each other awhile in silence .
Mr. Riach , a I do not think he have be very forward in the battle , so he have get off with nothing bad than a blow upon the cheek : but he look out of heart and very weary , have be all night afoot , either stand watch or doctor the wound .
`` This be a bad job , '' say he at last , shake his head .
`` It be none of our choosing , '' say I . `` The captain , '' say he , `` would like to speak with your friend .
They might speak at the window . ''
`` And how do we know what treachery he mean ? ''
cry I . `` He mean none , David , '' return Mr. Riach , `` and if he do , I 'll tell ye the honest truth , we couldnae get the men to follow . ''
`` Is that so ? ''
say I . `` I 'll tell ye more than that , '' say he .
`` It 's not only the men ; it 's me .
I 'm frich ` ened , Davie . ''
And he smile across at me .
`` No , '' he continue , `` what we want be to be shut of him . ''
Thereupon I consult with Alan , and the parley be agree to and parole give upon either side ; but this be not the whole of Mr. Riach 's business , and he now beg me for a dram with such instancy and such reminder of his former kindness , that at last I hand him a pannikin with about a gill of brandy .
He drink a part , and then carry the rest down upon the deck , to share it -LRB- I suppose -RRB- with his superior .
A little after , the captain come -LRB- a be agree -RRB- to one of the window , and stand there in the rain , with his arm in a sling , and look stern and pale , and so old that my heart smite me for have fire upon him .
Alan at once hold a pistol in his face .
`` Put that thing up ! ''
say the captain .
`` Have I not pass my word , sir ?
or do ye seek to affront me ? ''
`` Captain , '' say Alan , `` I doubt your word be a breakable .
Last night ye haggle and argle-bargled like an apple-wife ; and then pass me your word , and give me your hand to back it ; and ye ken very well what be the upshot .
Be damn to your word ! ''
say he .
`` Well , well , sir , '' say the captain , `` ye 'll get little good by swear . ''
-LRB- And truly that be a fault of which the captain be quite free . -RRB-
`` But we have other thing to speak , '' he continue , bitterly .
`` Ye 've make a sore hash of my brig ; I have n't hand enough leave to work her ; and my first officer -LRB- whom I could ill spare -RRB- have get your sword throughout his vitals , and pass without speech .
There be nothing leave me , sir , but to put back into the port of Glasgow after hand ; and there -LRB- by your leave -RRB- ye will find them that be well able to talk to you . ''
`` Ay ? ''
say Alan ; `` and faith , I 'll have a talk with them mysel ' !
Unless there 's naebody speaks English in that town , I have a bonny tale for them .
Fifteen tarry sailor upon the one side , and a man and a halfling boy upon the other !
O , man , it 's peetiful ! ''
Hoseason flush red .
`` No , '' continue Alan , `` that 'll no do .
Ye 'll just have to set me ashore a we agree . ''
`` Ay , '' say Hoseason , `` but my first officer be dead -- ye ken best how .
There 's none of the rest of u acquaint with this coast , sir ; and it 's one very dangerous to ship . ''
`` I give ye your choice , '' say Alan .
`` Set me on dry ground in Appin , or Ardgour , or in Morven , or Arisaig , or Morar ; or , in brief , where ye please , within thirty mile of my own country ; except in a country of the Campbells .
That 's a broad target .
If ye miss that , ye must be a feckless at the sailoring a I have find ye at the fighting .
Why , my poor country people in their bit cobles * pas from island to island in all weather , ay , and by night too , for the matter of that . ''
* Coble : a small boat use in fishing .
`` A coble 's not a ship , sir , '' say the captain .
`` It have nae draught of water . ''
`` Well , then , to Glasgow if ye list ! ''
say Alan .
`` We 'll have the laugh of ye at the least . ''
`` My mind run little upon laugh , '' say the captain .
`` But all this will cost money , sir . ''
`` Well , sir , '' say Alan , `` I be nae weathercock .
Thirty guinea , if ye land me on the sea-side ; and sixty , if ye put me in the Linnhe Loch . ''
`` But see , sir , where we lie , we be but a few hour ' sail from Ardnamurchan , '' say Hoseason .
`` Give me sixty , and I 'll set ye there . ''
`` And I 'm to wear my brogue and run jeopardy of the red-coats to please you ? ''
cry Alan .
`` No , sir ; if ye want sixty guinea earn them , and set me in my own country . ''
`` It 's to risk the brig , sir , '' say the captain , `` and your own life along with her . ''
`` Take it or want it , '' say Alan .
`` Could ye pilot u at all ? ''
ask the captain , who be frown to himself .
`` Well , it 's doubtful , '' say Alan .
`` I 'm more of a fight man -LRB- a ye have see for yoursel ' -RRB- than a sailor-man .
But I have be often enough pick up and set down upon this coast , and should ken something of the lie of it . ''
The captain shake his head , still frown .
`` If I have lose less money on this unchancy cruise , '' say he , `` I would see you in a rope 's end before I risk my brig , sir .
But be it a ye will .
As soon a I get a slant of wind -LRB- and there 's some coming , or I 'm the more mistaken -RRB- I 'll put it in hand .
But there 's one thing more .
We may meet in with a king 's ship and she may lay u aboard , sir , with no blame of mine : they keep the cruiser thick upon this coast , ye ken who for .
Now , sir , if that be to befall , ye might leave the money . ''
`` Captain , '' say Alan , `` if ye see a pennant , it shall be your part to run away .
And now , a I hear you 're a little short of brandy in the fore-part , I 'll offer ye a change : a bottle of brandy against two bucket of water . ''
That be the last clause of the treaty , and be duly execute on both side ; so that Alan and I could at last wash out the round-house and be quit of the memorial of those whom we have slay , and the captain and Mr. Riach could be happy again in their own way , the name of which be drink .
CHAPTER XII I HEAR OF THE `` RED FOX '' Before we have do clean out the round-house , a breeze sprang up from a little to the east of north .
This blow off the rain and bring out the sun .
And here I must explain ; and the reader would do well to look at a map .
On the day when the fog fell and we run down Alan 's boat , we have be run through the Little Minch .
At dawn after the battle , we lay becalm to the east of the Isle of Canna or between that and Isle Eriska in the chain of the Long Island .
Now to get from there to the Linnhe Loch , the straight course be through the narrow of the Sound of Mull .
But the captain have no chart ; he be afraid to trust his brig so deep among the island ; and the wind serve well , he prefer to go by west of Tiree and come up under the southern coast of the great Isle of Mull .
All day the breeze hold in the same point , and rather freshen than die down ; and towards afternoon , a swell begin to set in from round the outer Hebrides .
Our course , to go round about the inner isle , be to the west of south , so that at first we have this swell upon our beam , and be much roll about .
But after nightfall , when we have turn the end of Tiree and begin to head more to the east , the sea come right astern .
Meanwhile , the early part of the day , before the swell come up , be very pleasant ; sail , a we be , in a bright sunshine and with many mountainous island upon different side .
Alan and I sit in the round-house with the door open on each side -LRB- the wind be straight astern -RRB- , and smoke a pipe or two of the captain 's fine tobacco .
It be at this time we hear each other 's story , which be the more important to me , a I gain some knowledge of that wild Highland country on which I be so soon to land .
In those day , so close on the back of the great rebellion , it be needful a man should know what he be do when he go upon the heather .
It be I that show the example , tell him all my misfortune ; which he hear with great good-nature .
Only , when I come to mention that good friend of mine , Mr. Campbell the minister , Alan fire up and cry out that he hat all that be of that name .
`` Why , '' say I , `` he be a man you should be proud to give your hand to . ''
`` I know nothing I would help a Campbell to , '' say he , `` unless it be a leaden bullet .
I would hunt all of that name like blackcock .
If I lay die , I would crawl upon my knee to my chamber window for a shot at one . ''
`` Why , Alan , '' I cry , `` what ail ye at the Campbells ? ''
`` Well , '' say he , `` ye ken very well that I be an Appin Stewart , and the Campbells have long harry and waste those of my name ; ay , and get land of u by treachery -- but never with the sword , '' he cry loudly , and with the word bring down his fist upon the table .
But I pay the less attention to this , for I know it be usually say by those who have the underhand .
`` There 's more than that , '' he continue , `` and all in the same story : lying word , lie paper , trick fit for a peddler , and the show of what 's legal over all , to make a man the more angry . ''
`` You that be so wasteful of your button , '' say I , `` I can hardly think you would be a good judge of business . ''
`` Ah ! ''
say he , fall again to smile , `` I get my wastefulness from the same man I get the button from ; and that be my poor father , Duncan Stewart , grace be to him !
He be the pretty man of his kindred ; and the best swordsman in the Hielands , David , and that be the same a to say , in all the world , I should ken , for it be him that teach me .
He be in the Black Watch , when first it be muster ; and , like other gentleman private , have a gillie at his back to carry his firelock for him on the march .
Well , the King , it appear , be wishful to see Hieland swordsmanship ; and my father and three more be choose out and send to London town , to let him see it at the best .
So they be have into the palace and show the whole art of the sword for two hour at a stretch , before King George and Queen Carline , and the Butcher Cumberland , and many more of whom I havenae mind .
And when they be through , the King -LRB- for all he be a rank usurper -RRB- speak them fair and give each man three guinea in his hand .
Now , a they be go out of the palace , they have a porter 's lodge to go by ; and it come in on my father , a he be perhaps the first private Hieland gentleman that have ever go by that door , it be right he should give the poor porter a proper notion of their quality .
So he give the King 's three guinea into the man 's hand , a if it be his common custom ; the three others that come behind him do the same ; and there they be on the street , never a penny the good for their pain .
Some say it be one , that be the first to fee the King 's porter ; and some say it be another ; but the truth of it be , that it be Duncan Stewart , a I be willing to prove with either sword or pistol .
And that be the father that I have , God rest him ! ''
`` I think he be not the man to leave you rich , '' say I . `` And that 's true , '' say Alan .
`` He leave me my breeks to cover me , and little besides .
And that be how I come to enlist , which be a black spot upon my character at the best of time , and would still be a sore job for me if I fell among the red-coats . ''
`` What , '' cry I , `` be you in the English army ? ''
`` That be I , '' say Alan .
`` But I desert to the right side at Preston Pans -- and that 's some comfort . ''
I could scarcely share this view : hold desertion under arm for an unpardonable fault in honour .
But for all I be so young , I be wise than say my thought .
`` Dear , dear , '' say I , `` the punishment be death . ''
`` Ay '' say he , `` if they get hand on me , it would be a short shrift and a lang tow for Alan !
But I have the King of France 's commission in my pocket , which would aye be some protection . ''
`` I misdoubt it much , '' say I . `` I have doubt mysel ' , '' say Alan drily .
`` And , good heaven , man , '' cry I , `` you that be a condemned rebel , and a deserter , and a man of the French King 's -- what tempt ye back into this country ?
It 's a braving of Providence . ''
`` Tut ! ''
say Alan , `` I have be back every year since forty-six ! ''
`` And what bring ye , man ? ''
cry I . `` Well , ye see , I weary for my friend and country , '' say he .
`` France be a braw place , nae doubt ; but I weary for the heather and the deer .
And then I have bite thing that I attend to .
Whiles I pick up a few lad to serve the King of France : recruit , ye see ; and that 's aye a little money .
But the heart of the matter be the business of my chief , Ardshiel . ''
`` I think they call your chief Appin , '' say I . `` Ay , but Ardshiel be the captain of the clan , '' say he , which scarcely clear my mind .
`` Ye see , David , he that be all his life so great a man , and come of the blood and bear the name of king , be now bring down to live in a French town like a poor and private person .
He that have four hundred sword at his whistle , I have see , with these eye of mine , buy butter in the market-place , and take it home in a kale-leaf .
This be not only a pain but a disgrace to u of his family and clan .
There be the bairn forby , the child and the hope of Appin , that must be learn their letter and how to hold a sword , in that far country .
Now , the tenant of Appin have to pay a rent to King George ; but their heart be staunch , they be true to their chief ; and what with love and a bit of pressure , and maybe a threat or two , the poor folk scrape up a second rent for Ardshiel .
Well , David , I 'm the hand that carry it . ''
And he strike the belt about his body , so that the guinea rang .
`` Do they pay both ? ''
cry I . `` Ay , David , both , '' say he .
`` What !
two rent ? ''
I repeat .
`` Ay , David , '' say he .
`` I tell a different tale to yon captain man ; but this be the truth of it .
And it 's wonderful to me how little pressure be need .
But that 's the handiwork of my good kinsman and my father 's friend , James of the Glens : James Stewart , that be : Ardshiel 's half-brother .
He it be that get the money in , and do the management . ''
This be the first time I hear the name of that James Stewart , who be afterwards so famous at the time of his hanging .
But I take little heed at the moment , for all my mind be occupy with the generosity of these poor Highlanders .
`` I call it noble , '' I cry .
`` I 'm a Whig , or little good ; but I call it noble . ''
`` Ay '' say he , `` ye 're a Whig , but ye 're a gentleman ; and that 's what do it .
Now , if ye be one of the cursed race of Campbell , ye would gnash your teeth to hear tell of it .
If ye be the Red Fox ... '' And at that name , his teeth shut together , and he cease speaking .
I have see many a grim face , but never a grimmer than Alan 's when he have name the Red Fox .
`` And who be the Red Fox ? ''
I ask , daunt , but still curious .
`` Who be he ? ''
cry Alan .
`` Well , and I 'll tell you that .
When the men of the clan be break at Culloden , and the good cause go down , and the horse rode over the fetlock in the best blood of the north , Ardshiel have to flee like a poor deer upon the mountain -- he and his lady and his bairn .
A sair job we have of it before we get him ship ; and while he still lay in the heather , the English rogue , that couldnae come at his life , be strike at his right .
They strip him of his power ; they strip him of his land ; they pluck the weapon from the hand of his clansman , that have bear arm for thirty century ; ay , and the very clothes off their back -- so that it 's now a sin to wear a tartan plaid , and a man may be cast into a gaol if he have but a kilt about his leg .
One thing they couldnae kill .
That be the love the clansman bore their chief .
These guinea be the proof of it .
And now , in there step a man , a Campbell , red-headed Colin of Glenure -- '' `` Is that him you call the Red Fox ? ''
say I . `` Will ye bring me his brush ? ''
cry Alan , fiercely .
`` Ay , that 's the man .
In he step , and get paper from King George , to be so-called King 's factor on the land of Appin .
And at first he sing small , and be hail-fellow-well-met with Sheamus -- that 's James of the Glens , my chieftain 's agent .
But by-and-by , that come to his ear that I have just tell you ; how the poor common of Appin , the farmer and the crofter and the boumen , be wring their very plaid to get a second rent , and send it over-seas for Ardshiel and his poor bairn .
What be it ye call it , when I tell ye ? ''
`` I call it noble , Alan , '' say I . `` And you little good than a common Whig ! ''
cry Alan .
`` But when it come to Colin Roy , the black Campbell blood in him run wild .
He sit gnash his teeth at the wine table .
What !
should a Stewart get a bite of bread , and him not be able to prevent it ?
Ah !
Red Fox , if ever I hold you at a gun 's end , the Lord have pity upon ye ! ''
-LRB- Alan stop to swallow down his anger . -RRB-
`` Well , David , what do he do ?
He declare all the farm to let .
And , think he , in his black heart , ` I 'll soon get other tenant that 'll overbid these Stewarts , and Maccolls , and Macrobs ' -LRB- for these be all name in my clan , David -RRB- ; ` and then , ' think he , ` Ardshiel will have to hold his bonnet on a French roadside . ' ''
`` Well , '' say I , `` what follow ? ''
Alan lay down his pipe , which he have long since suffer to go out , and set his two hand upon his knee .
`` Ay , '' say he , `` ye 'll never guess that !
For these same Stewarts , and Maccolls , and Macrobs -LRB- that have two rent to pay , one to King George by stark force , and one to Ardshiel by natural kindness -RRB- offer him a good price than any Campbell in all broad Scotland ; and far he send seek them -- as far a to the side of Clyde and the cross of Edinburgh -- seek , and fleeching , and beg them to come , where there be a Stewart to be starve and a red-headed hound of a Campbell to be pleasured ! ''
`` Well , Alan , '' say I , `` that be a strange story , and a fine one , too .
And Whig a I may be , I be glad the man be beat . ''
`` Him beat ? ''
echoed Alan .
`` It 's little ye ken of Campbells , and less of the Red Fox .
Him beat ?
No : nor will be , till his blood 's on the hillside !
But if the day come , David man , that I can find time and leisure for a bit of hunting , there grow not enough heather in all Scotland to hide him from my vengeance ! ''
`` Man Alan , '' say I , `` ye be neither very wise nor very Christian to blow off so many word of anger .
They will do the man ye call the Fox no harm , and yourself no good .
Tell me your tale plainly out .
What do he next ? ''
`` And that 's a good observe , David , '' say Alan .
`` Troth and indeed , they will do him no harm ; the more 's the pity !
And bar that about Christianity -LRB- of which my opinion be quite otherwise , or I would be nae Christian -RRB- , I be much of your mind . ''
`` Opinion here or opinion there , '' say I , `` it 's a kent thing that Christianity forbid revenge . ''
`` Ay '' say he , `` it 's well see it be a Campbell taught ye !
It would be a convenient world for them and their sort , if there be no such a thing a a lad and a gun behind a heather bush !
But that 's nothing to the point .
This be what he do . ''
`` Ay '' say I , `` come to that . ''
`` Well , David , '' say he , `` since he couldnae be rid of the loyal common by fair mean , he swear he would be rid of them by foul .
Ardshiel be to starve : that be the thing he aim at .
And since them that feed him in his exile wouldnae be buy out -- right or wrong , he would drive them out .
Therefore he send for lawyer , and paper , and red-coats to stand at his back .
And the kindly folk of that country must all pack and tramp , every father 's son out of his father 's house , and out of the place where he be breed and feed , and play when he be a callant .
And who be to succeed them ?
Bare-leggit beggar !
King George be to whistle for his rent ; he maun dow with less ; he can spread his butter thinner : what care Red Colin ?
If he can hurt Ardshiel , he have his wish ; if he can pluck the meat from my chieftain 's table , and the bit toy out of his child 's hand , he will gang hame sing to Glenure ! ''
`` Let me have a word , '' say I . `` Be sure , if they take less rent , be sure Government have a finger in the pie .
It 's not this Campbell 's fault , man -- it 's his order .
And if ye kill this Colin to-morrow , what good would ye be ?
There would be another factor in his shoe , as fast a spur can drive . ''
`` Ye 're a good lad in a fight , '' say Alan ; `` but , man !
ye have Whig blood in ye ! ''
He speak kindly enough , but there be so much anger under his contempt that I think it be wise to change the conversation .
I express my wonder how , with the Highlands cover with troop , and guard like a city in a siege , a man in his situation could come and go without arrest .
`` It 's easy than ye would think , '' say Alan .
`` A bare hillside -LRB- ye see -RRB- be like all one road ; if there 's a sentry at one place , ye just go by another .
And then the heather 's a great help .
And everywhere there be friend ' house and friend ' byre and haystack .
And besides , when folk talk of a country cover with troop , it 's but a kind of a byword at the best .
A soldier cover nae mair of it than his boot-soles .
I have fish a water with a sentry on the other side of the brae , and kill a fine trout ; and I have sit in a heather bush within six foot of another , and learn a real bonny tune from his whistling .
This be it , '' say he , and whistle me the air .
`` And then , besides , '' he continue , `` it 's no sae bad now a it be in forty-six .
The Hielands be what they call pacify .
Small wonder , with never a gun or a sword left from Cantyre to Cape Wrath , but what tenty * folk have hide in their thatch !
But what I would like to ken , David , be just how long ?
Not long , ye would think , with men like Ardshiel in exile and men like the Red Fox sit birl the wine and oppress the poor at home .
But it 's a kittle thing to decide what folk 'll bear , and what they will not .
Or why would Red Colin be rid his horse all over my poor country of Appin , and never a pretty lad to put a bullet in him ? ''
* Careful .
And with this Alan fell into a muse , and for a long time sate very sad and silent .
I will add the rest of what I have to say about my friend , that he be skilled in all kind of music , but principally pipe-music ; be a well-considered poet in his own tongue ; have read several book both in French and English ; be a dead shot , a good angler , and an excellent fencer with the small sword as well a with his own particular weapon .
For his fault , they be on his face , and I now know them all .
But the bad of them , his childish propensity to take offence and to pick quarrel , he greatly lay aside in my case , out of regard for the battle of the round-house .
But whether it be because I have do well myself , or because I have be a witness of his own much great prowess , be more than I can tell .
For though he have a great taste for courage in other men , yet he admire it most in Alan Breck .
CHAPTER XIII THE LOSS OF THE BRIG It be already late at night , and as dark a it ever would be at that season of the year -LRB- and that be to say , it be still pretty bright -RRB- , when Hoseason clap his head into the round-house door .
`` Here , '' say he , `` come out and see if ye can pilot . ''
`` Is this one of your trick ? ''
ask Alan .
`` Do I look like trick ? ''
cry the captain .
`` I have other thing to think of -- my brig 's in danger ! ''
By the concerned look of his face , and , above all , by the sharp tone in which he speak of his brig , it be plain to both of u he be in deadly earnest ; and so Alan and I , with no great fear of treachery , step on deck .
The sky be clear ; it blow hard , and be bitter cold ; a great deal of daylight linger ; and the moon , which be nearly full , shone brightly .
The brig be close haul , so a to round the southwest corner of the Island of Mull , the hill of which -LRB- and Ben More above them all , with a wisp of mist upon the top of it -RRB- lay full upon the lar-board bow .
Though it be no good point of sail for the Covenant , she tear through the sea at a great rate , pitching and straining , and pursue by the westerly swell .
Altogether it be no such ill night to keep the sea in ; and I have begin to wonder what it be that sit so heavily upon the captain , when the brig rise suddenly on the top of a high swell , he point and cry to u to look .
Away on the lee bow , a thing like a fountain rise out of the moonlit sea , and immediately after we hear a low sound of roaring .
`` What do ye call that ? ''
ask the captain , gloomily .
`` The sea break on a reef , '' say Alan .
`` And now ye ken where it be ; and what good would ye have ? ''
`` Ay , '' say Hoseason , `` if it be the only one . ''
And sure enough , just a he speak there come a second fountain farther to the south .
`` There ! ''
say Hoseason .
`` Ye see for yourself .
If I have kent of these reef , if I have have a chart , or if Shuan have be spar , it 's not sixty guinea , no , nor six hundred , would have make me risk my brig in sic a stoneyard !
But you , sir , that be to pilot u , have ye never a word ? ''
`` I 'm think , '' say Alan , `` these 'll be what they call the Torran Rocks . ''
`` Are there many of them ? ''
say the captain .
`` Truly , sir , I be nae pilot , '' say Alan ; `` but it stick in my mind there be ten mile of them . ''
Mr. Riach and the captain look at each other .
`` There 's a way through them , I suppose ? ''
say the captain .
`` Doubtless , '' say Alan , `` but where ?
But it somehow run in my mind once more that it be clearer under the land . ''
`` So ? ''
say Hoseason .
`` We 'll have to haul our wind then , Mr. Riach ; we 'll have to come a near in about the end of Mull a we can take her , sir ; and even then we 'll have the land to kep the wind off u , and that stoneyard on our lee .
Well , we 're in for it now , and may as well crack on . ''
With that he give an order to the steersman , and send Riach to the foretop .
There be only five men on deck , count the officer ; these be all that be fit -LRB- or , at least , both fit and willing -RRB- for their work .
So , a I say , it fell to Mr. Riach to go aloft , and he sit there look out and hail the deck with news of all he saw .
`` The sea to the south be thick , '' he cry ; and then , after a while , `` it do seem clearer in by the land . ''
`` Well , sir , '' say Hoseason to Alan , `` we 'll try your way of it .
But I think I might as well trust to a blind fiddler .
Pray God you 're right . ''
`` Pray God I be ! ''
say Alan to me .
`` But where do I hear it ?
Well , well , it will be a it must . ''
As we get nearer to the turn of the land the reef begin to be sow here and there on our very path ; and Mr. Riach sometimes cry down to u to change the course .
Sometimes , indeed , none too soon ; for one reef be so close on the brig 's weather board that when a sea burst upon it the lighter spray fell upon her deck and wet u like rain .
The brightness of the night show u these peril as clearly a by day , which be , perhaps , the more alarming .
It show me , too , the face of the captain a he stand by the steersman , now on one foot , now on the other , and sometimes blow in his hand , but still listen and look and as steady a steel .
Neither he nor Mr. Riach have show well in the fighting ; but I saw they be brave in their own trade , and admire them all the more because I find Alan very white .
`` Ochone , David , '' say he , `` this be no the kind of death I fancy ! ''
`` What , Alan ! ''
I cry , `` you 're not afraid ? ''
`` No , '' say he , wet his lip , `` but you 'll allow , yourself , it 's a cold end . ''
By this time , now and then sheer to one side or the other to avoid a reef , but still hug the wind and the land , we have get round Iona and begin to come alongside Mull .
The tide at the tail of the land run very strong , and throw the brig about .
Two hand be put to the helm , and Hoseason himself would sometimes lend a help ; and it be strange to see three strong men throw their weight upon the tiller , and it -LRB- like a living thing -RRB- struggle against and drive them back .
This would have be the great danger have not the sea be for some while free of obstacle .
Mr. Riach , besides , announce from the top that he saw clear water ahead .
`` Ye be right , '' say Hoseason to Alan .
`` Ye have save the brig , sir .
I 'll mind that when we come to clear account . ''
And I believe he not only mean what he say , but would have do it ; so high a place do the Covenant hold in his affection .
But this be matter only for conjecture , thing have go otherwise than he forecast .
`` Keep her away a point , '' sing out Mr. Riach .
`` Reef to windward ! ''
And just at the same time the tide catch the brig , and throw the wind out of her sail .
She come round into the wind like a top , and the next moment strike the reef with such a dunch a threw u all flat upon the deck , and come near to shake Mr. Riach from his place upon the mast .
I be on my foot in a minute .
The reef on which we have strike be close in under the southwest end of Mull , off a little isle they call Earraid , which lay low and black upon the larboard .
Sometimes the swell break clean over u ; sometimes it only grind the poor brig upon the reef , so that we could hear her beat herself to piece ; and what with the great noise of the sail , and the singing of the wind , and the flying of the spray in the moonlight , and the sense of danger , I think my head must have be partly turn , for I could scarcely understand the thing I saw .
Presently I observe Mr. Riach and the seaman busy round the skiff , and , still in the same blank , run over to assist them ; and as soon a I set my hand to work , my mind come clear again .
It be no very easy task , for the skiff lay amidships and be full of hamper , and the breaking of the heavy sea continually force u to give over and hold on ; but we all work like horse while we could .
Meanwhile such of the wound a could move come clamber out of the fore-scuttle and begin to help ; while the rest that lay helpless in their bunk harrow me with scream and beg to be save .
The captain take no part .
It seem he be strike stupid .
He stand hold by the shroud , talk to himself and groan out aloud whenever the ship hammer on the rock .
His brig be like wife and child to him ; he have look on , day by day , at the mishandling of poor Ransome ; but when it come to the brig , he seem to suffer along with her .
All the time of our work at the boat , I remember only one other thing : that I ask Alan , look across at the shore , what country it be ; and he answer , it be the bad possible for him , for it be a land of the Campbells .
We have one of the wound men tell off to keep a watch upon the sea and cry u warn .
Well , we have the boat about ready to be launch , when this man sing out pretty shrill : `` For God 's sake , hold on ! ''
We know by his tone that it be something more than ordinary ; and sure enough , there follow a sea so huge that it lift the brig right up and cant her over on her beam .
Whether the cry come too late , or my hold be too weak , I know not ; but at the sudden tilting of the ship I be cast clean over the bulwark into the sea .
I go down , and drink my fill , and then come up , and get a blink of the moon , and then down again .
They say a man sink a third time for good .
I can not be make like other folk , then ; for I would not like to write how often I go down , or how often I come up again .
All the while , I be be hurl along , and beat upon and choke , and then swallow whole ; and the thing be so distract to my wit , that I be neither sorry nor afraid .
Presently , I find I be hold to a spar , which help me somewhat .
And then all of a sudden I be in quiet water , and begin to come to myself .
It be the spare yard I have get hold of , and I be amaze to see how far I have travel from the brig . I hail her , indeed ; but it be plain she be already out of cry .
She be still hold together ; but whether or not they have yet launch the boat , I be too far off and too low down to see .
While I be hail the brig , I spy a tract of water lie between u where no great wave come , but which yet boil white all over and bristle in the moon with ring and bubble .
Sometimes the whole tract swung to one side , like the tail of a live serpent ; sometimes , for a glimpse , it would all disappear and then boil up again .
What it be I have no guess , which for the time increase my fear of it ; but I now know it must have be the roost or tide race , which have carry me away so fast and tumble me about so cruelly , and at last , a if tire of that play , have fling out me and the spare yard upon it landward margin .
I now lay quite becalm , and begin to feel that a man can die of cold as well a of drowning .
The shore of Earraid be close in ; I could see in the moonlight the dot of heather and the sparkling of the mica in the rock .
`` Well , '' think I to myself , `` if I can not get as far a that , it 's strange ! ''
I have no skill of swimming , Essen Water be small in our neighbourhood ; but when I lay hold upon the yard with both arm , and kick out with both foot , I soon begin to find that I be move .
Hard work it be , and mortally slow ; but in about an hour of kicking and splashing , I have get well in between the point of a sandy bay surround by low hill .
The sea be here quite quiet ; there be no sound of any surf ; the moon shone clear ; and I think in my heart I have never see a place so desert and desolate .
But it be dry land ; and when at last it grow so shallow that I could leave the yard and wade ashore upon my foot , I can not tell if I be more tired or more grateful .
Both , at least , I be : tire a I never be before that night ; and grateful to God a I trust I have be often , though never with more cause .
CHAPTER XIV THE ISLET With my step ashore I begin the most unhappy part of my adventure .
It be half-past twelve in the morning , and though the wind be break by the land , it be a cold night .
I dare not sit down -LRB- for I think I should have freeze -RRB- , but take off my shoe and walk to and fro upon the sand , bare-foot , and beat my breast with infinite weariness .
There be no sound of man or cattle ; not a cock crew , though it be about the hour of their first waking ; only the surf break outside in the distance , which put me in mind of my peril and those of my friend .
To walk by the sea at that hour of the morning , and in a place so desert-like and lonesome , strike me with a kind of fear .
As soon a the day begin to break I put on my shoe and climb a hill -- the ruggedest scramble I ever undertake -- fall , the whole way , between big block of granite , or leap from one to another .
When I get to the top the dawn be come .
There be no sign of the brig , which must have lift from the reef and sunk .
The boat , too , be nowhere to be see .
There be never a sail upon the ocean ; and in what I could see of the land be neither house nor man .
I be afraid to think what have befall my shipmate , and afraid to look long at so empty a scene .
What with my wet clothes and weariness , and my belly that now begin to ache with hunger , I have enough to trouble me without that .
So I set off eastward along the south coast , hop to find a house where I might warm myself , and perhaps get news of those I have lose .
And at the bad , I consider the sun would soon rise and dry my clothes .
After a little , my way be stop by a creek or inlet of the sea , which seem to run pretty deep into the land ; and a I have no mean to get across , I must need change my direction to go about the end of it .
It be still the rough kind of walking ; indeed the whole , not only of Earraid , but of the neighbouring part of Mull -LRB- which they call the Ross -RRB- be nothing but a jumble of granite rock with heather in among .
At first the creek keep narrow a I have look to see ; but presently to my surprise it begin to widen out again .
At this I scratch my head , but have still no notion of the truth : until at last I come to a rise ground , and it burst upon me all in a moment that I be cast upon a little barren isle , and cut off on every side by the salt sea .
Instead of the sun rise to dry me , it come on to rain , with a thick mist ; so that my case be lamentable .
I stand in the rain , and shiver , and wonder what to do , till it occur to me that perhaps the creek be fordable .
Back I go to the narrow point and wad in .
But not three yard from shore , I plump in head over ear ; and if ever I be heard of more , it be rather by God 's grace than my own prudence .
I be no wetter -LRB- for that could hardly be -RRB- , but I be all the colder for this mishap ; and have lose another hope be the more unhappy .
And now , all at once , the yard come in my head .
What have carry me through the roost would surely serve me to cross this little quiet creek in safety .
With that I set off , undaunted , across the top of the isle , to fetch and carry it back .
It be a weary tramp in all way , and if hope have not buoy me up , I must have cast myself down and give up .
Whether with the sea salt , or because I be grow fevered , I be distress with thirst , and have to stop , a I go , and drink the peaty water out of the hag .
I come to the bay at last , more dead than alive ; and at the first glance , I think the yard be something far out than when I leave it .
In I go , for the third time , into the sea .
The sand be smooth and firm , and shelve gradually down , so that I could wade out till the water be almost to my neck and the little wave splash into my face .
But at that depth my foot begin to leave me , and I durst venture in no farther .
As for the yard , I saw it bob very quietly some twenty foot beyond .
I have bear up well until this last disappointment ; but at that I come ashore , and fling myself down upon the sand and wept .
The time I spend upon the island be still so horrible a thought to me , that I must pass it lightly over .
In all the book I have read of people cast away , they have either their pocket full of tool , or a chest of thing would be throw upon the beach along with them , a if on purpose .
My case be very different .
I have nothing in my pocket but money and Alan 's silver button ; and be inland breed , I be as much short of knowledge a of mean .
I know indeed that shell-fish be count good to eat ; and among the rock of the isle I find a great plenty of limpet , which at first I could scarcely strike from their place , not know quickness to be needful .
There be , besides , some of the little shell that we call buckies ; I think periwinkle be the English name .
Of these two I make my whole diet , devour them cold and raw a I find them ; and so hungry be I , that at first they seem to me delicious .
Perhaps they be out of season , or perhaps there be something wrong in the sea about my island .
But at least I have no sooner eat my first meal than I be seize with giddiness and retching , and lay for a long time no good than dead .
A second trial of the same food -LRB- indeed I have no other -RRB- do good with me , and revive my strength .
But as long a I be on the island , I never know what to expect when I have eat ; sometimes all be well , and sometimes I be throw into a miserable sickness ; nor could I ever distinguish what particular fish it be that hurt me .
All day it stream rain ; the island run like a sop , there be no dry spot to be find ; and when I lay down that night , between two boulder that make a kind of roof , my foot be in a bog .
The second day I cross the island to all side .
There be no one part of it good than another ; it be all desolate and rocky ; nothing living on it but game bird which I lack the mean to kill , and the gull which haunt the outlying rock in a prodigious number .
But the creek , or strait , that cut off the isle from the main-land of the Ross , open out on the north into a bay , and the bay again open into the Sound of Iona ; and it be the neighbourhood of this place that I choose to be my home ; though if I have think upon the very name of home in such a spot , I must have burst out weeping .
I have good reason for my choice .
There be in this part of the isle a little hut of a house like a pig 's hut , where fisher use to sleep when they come there upon their business ; but the turf roof of it have fall entirely in ; so that the hut be of no use to me , and give me less shelter than my rock .
What be more important , the shell-fish on which I live grow there in great plenty ; when the tide be out I could gather a peck at a time : and this be doubtless a convenience .
But the other reason go deep .
I have become in no way use to the horrid solitude of the isle , but still look round me on all side -LRB- like a man that be hunt -RRB- , between fear and hope that I might see some human creature come .
Now , from a little up the hillside over the bay , I could catch a sight of the great , ancient church and the roof of the people 's house in Iona .
And on the other hand , over the low country of the Ross , I saw smoke go up , morning and evening , a if from a homestead in a hollow of the land .
I use to watch this smoke , when I be wet and cold , and have my head half turn with loneliness ; and think of the fireside and the company , till my heart burn .
It be the same with the roof of Iona .
Altogether , this sight I have of men 's home and comfortable life , although it put a point on my own suffering , yet it keep hope alive , and help me to eat my raw shell-fish -LRB- which have soon grow to be a disgust -RRB- , and save me from the sense of horror I have whenever I be quite alone with dead rock , and fowl , and the rain , and the cold sea .
I say it keep hope alive ; and indeed it seem impossible that I should be leave to die on the shore of my own country , and within view of a church-tower and the smoke of men 's house .
But the second day pass ; and though as long a the light last I keep a bright look-out for boat on the Sound or men pass on the Ross , no help come near me .
It still rain , and I turn in to sleep , as wet a ever , and with a cruel sore throat , but a little comforted , perhaps , by have say good-night to my next neighbour , the people of Iona .
Charles the Second declare a man could stay outdoors more day in the year in the climate of England than in any other .
This be very like a king , with a palace at his back and change of dry clothes .
But he must have have good luck on his flight from Worcester than I have on that miserable isle .
It be the height of the summer ; yet it rain for more than twenty-four hour , and do not clear until the afternoon of the third day .
This be the day of incident .
In the morning I saw a red deer , a buck with a fine spread of antler , stand in the rain on the top of the island ; but he have scarce see me rise from under my rock , before he trot off upon the other side .
I suppose he must have swim the strait ; though what should bring any creature to Earraid , be more than I could fancy .
A little after , a I be jump about after my limpet , I be startle by a guinea-piece , which fell upon a rock in front of me and glance off into the sea .
When the sailor give me my money again , they keep back not only about a third of the whole sum , but my father 's leather purse ; so that from that day out , I carry my gold loose in a pocket with a button .
I now saw there must be a hole , and clap my hand to the place in a great hurry .
But this be to lock the stable door after the steed be steal .
I have leave the shore at Queensferry with near on fifty pound ; now I find no more than two guinea-pieces and a silver shilling .
It be true I pick up a third guinea a little after , where it lay shin on a piece of turf .
That make a fortune of three pound and four shilling , English money , for a lad , the rightful heir of an estate , and now starve on an isle at the extreme end of the wild Highlands .
This state of my affair dash me still far ; and , indeed my plight on that third morning be truly pitiful .
My clothes be begin to rot ; my stocking in particular be quite wear through , so that my shank go naked ; my hand have grow quite soft with the continual soaking ; my throat be very sore , my strength have much abate , and my heart so turn against the horrid stuff I be condemn to eat , that the very sight of it come near to sicken me .
And yet the bad be not yet come .
There be a pretty high rock on the northwest of Earraid , which -LRB- because it have a flat top and overlook the Sound -RRB- I be much in the habit of frequent ; not that ever I stay in one place , save when asleep , my misery give me no rest .
Indeed , I wear myself down with continual and aimless going and coming in the rain .
As soon , however , a the sun come out , I lay down on the top of that rock to dry myself .
The comfort of the sunshine be a thing I can not tell .
It set me think hopefully of my deliverance , of which I have begin to despair ; and I scan the sea and the Ross with a fresh interest .
On the south of my rock , a part of the island jut out and hide the open ocean , so that a boat could thus come quite near me upon that side , and I be none the wiser .
Well , all of a sudden , a coble with a brown sail and a pair of fisher aboard of it , come fly round that corner of the isle , bound for Iona .
I shout out , and then fell on my knee on the rock and reach up my hand and pray to them .
They be near enough to hear -- I could even see the colour of their hair ; and there be no doubt but they observe me , for they cry out in the Gaelic tongue , and laugh .
But the boat never turn aside , and fly on , right before my eye , for Iona .
I could not believe such wickedness , and run along the shore from rock to rock , cry on them piteously even after they be out of reach of my voice , I still cry and wave to them ; and when they be quite go , I think my heart would have burst .
All the time of my trouble I weep only twice .
Once , when I could not reach the yard , and now , the second time , when these fisher turn a deaf ear to my cry .
But this time I weep and roar like a wicked child , tear up the turf with my nail , and grind my face in the earth .
If a wish would kill men , those two fisher would never have see morning , and I should likely have die upon my island .
When I be a little over my anger , I must eat again , but with such loathing of the mess a I could now scarce control .
Sure enough , I should have do as well to fast , for my fish poison me again .
I have all my first pain ; my throat be so sore I could scarce swallow ; I have a fit of strong shuddering , which cluck my teeth together ; and there come on me that dreadful sense of illness , which we have no name for either in Scotch or English .
I think I should have die , and make my peace with God , forgive all men , even my uncle and the fisher ; and as soon a I have thus make up my mind to the bad , clearness come upon me ; I observe the night be fall dry ; my clothes be dry a good deal ; truly , I be in a good case than ever before , since I have land on the isle ; and so I get to sleep at last , with a thought of gratitude .
The next day -LRB- which be the fourth of this horrible life of mine -RRB- I find my bodily strength run very low .
But the sun shone , the air be sweet , and what I manage to eat of the shell-fish agree well with me and revive my courage .
I be scarce back on my rock -LRB- where I go always the first thing after I have eat -RRB- before I observe a boat come down the Sound , and with her head , a I think , in my direction .
I begin at once to hope and fear exceedingly ; for I think these men might have think good of their cruelty and be come back to my assistance .
But another disappointment , such a yesterday 's , be more than I could bear .
I turn my back , accordingly , upon the sea , and do not look again till I have count many hundred .
The boat be still head for the island .
The next time I count the full thousand , as slowly a I could , my heart beat so a to hurt me .
And then it be out of all question .
She be come straight to Earraid !
I could no longer hold myself back , but run to the seaside and out , from one rock to another , as far a I could go .
It be a marvel I be not drown ; for when I be bring to a stand at last , my legs shook under me , and my mouth be so dry , I must wet it with the sea-water before I be able to shout .
All this time the boat be come on ; and now I be able to perceive it be the same boat and the same two men a yesterday .
This I know by their hair , which the one have of a bright yellow and the other black .
But now there be a third man along with them , who look to be of a good class .
As soon a they be come within easy speech , they let down their sail and lay quiet .
In spite of my supplication , they draw no nearer in , and what frighten me most of all , the new man tee-hee 'd with laughter a he talk and look at me .
Then he stand up in the boat and address me a long while , speak fast and with many waving of his hand .
I tell him I have no Gaelic ; and at this he become very angry , and I begin to suspect he think he be talk English .
Listening very close , I catch the word `` whateffer '' several time ; but all the rest be Gaelic and might have be Greek and Hebrew for me .
`` Whatever , '' say I , to show him I have catch a word .
`` Yes , yes -- yes , yes , '' say he , and then he look at the other men , as much a to say , `` I tell you I speak English , '' and begin again as hard a ever in the Gaelic .
This time I pick out another word , `` tide . ''
Then I have a flash of hope .
I remember he be always wave his hand towards the mainland of the Ross .
`` Do you mean when the tide be out -- ? ''
I cry , and could not finish .
`` Yes , yes , '' say he .
`` Tide . ''
At that I turn tail upon their boat -LRB- where my adviser have once more begin to tee-hee with laughter -RRB- , leap back the way I have come , from one stone to another , and set off run across the isle a I have never run before .
In about half an hour I come out upon the shore of the creek ; and , sure enough , it be shrink into a little trickle of water , through which I dash , not above my knee , and land with a shout on the main island .
A sea-bred boy would not have stay a day on Earraid ; which be only what they call a tidal islet , and except in the bottom of the neap , can be enter and leave twice in every twenty-four hour , either dry-shod , or at the most by wad .
Even I , who have the tide go out and in before me in the bay , and even watch for the ebb , the good to get my shellfish -- even I -LRB- I say -RRB- if I have sit down to think , instead of rag at my fate , must have soon guess the secret , and get free .
It be no wonder the fisher have not understood me .
The wonder be rather that they have ever guess my pitiful illusion , and take the trouble to come back .
I have starve with cold and hunger on that island for close upon one hundred hour .
But for the fisher , I might have leave my bone there , in pure folly .
And even a it be , I have pay for it pretty dear , not only in past suffering , but in my present case ; be clothe like a beggar-man , scarce able to walk , and in great pain of my sore throat .
I have see wicked men and fool , a great many of both ; and I believe they both get pay in the end ; but the fool first .
CHAPTER XV THE LAD WITH THE SILVER BUTTON : THROUGH THE ISLE OF MULL The Ross of Mull , which I have now get upon , be rugged and trackless , like the isle I have just leave ; be all bog , and brier , and big stone .
There may be road for them that know that country well ; but for my part I have no good guide than my own nose , and no other landmark than Ben More .
I aim as well a I could for the smoke I have see so often from the island ; and with all my great weariness and the difficulty of the way come upon the house in the bottom of a little hollow about five or six at night .
It be low and longish , roofed with turf and built of unmortared stone ; and on a mound in front of it , an old gentleman sit smoke his pipe in the sun .
With what little English he have , he give me to understand that my shipmate have get safe ashore , and have break bread in that very house on the day after .
`` Was there one , '' I ask , `` dress like a gentleman ? ''
He say they all wear rough great-coats ; but to be sure , the first of them , the one that come alone , wear breech and stocking , while the rest have sailor ' trouser .
`` Ah , '' say I , `` and he would have a feather hat ? ''
He tell me , no , that he be bareheaded like myself .
At first I think Alan might have lose his hat ; and then the rain come in my mind , and I judge it more likely he have it out of harm 's way under his great-coat .
This set me smile , partly because my friend be safe , partly to think of his vanity in dress .
And then the old gentleman clap his hand to his brow , and cry out that I must be the lad with the silver button .
`` Why , yes ! ''
say I , in some wonder .
`` Well , then , '' say the old gentleman , `` I have a word for you , that you be to follow your friend to his country , by Torosay . ''
He then ask me how I have fare , and I tell him my tale .
A south-country man would certainly have laugh ; but this old gentleman -LRB- I call him so because of his manner , for his clothes be drop off his back -RRB- hear me all through with nothing but gravity and pity .
When I have do , he take me by the hand , lead me into his hut -LRB- it be no good -RRB- and present me before his wife , a if she have be the Queen and I a duke .
The good woman set oat-bread before me and a cold grouse , pat my shoulder and smile to me all the time , for she have no English ; and the old gentleman -LRB- not to be behind -RRB- brew me a strong punch out of their country spirit .
All the while I be eat , and after that when I be drink the punch , I could scarce come to believe in my good fortune ; and the house , though it be thick with the peat-smoke and a full of hole a a colander , seem like a palace .
The punch throw me in a strong sweat and a deep slumber ; the good people let me lie ; and it be near noon of the next day before I take the road , my throat already easy and my spirit quite restore by good fare and good news .
The old gentleman , although I press him hard , would take no money , and give me an old bonnet for my head ; though I be free to own I be no sooner out of view of the house than I very jealously wash this gift of his in a wayside fountain .
Thought I to myself : `` If these be the wild Highlanders , I could wish my own folk wilder . ''
I not only start late , but I must have wander nearly half the time .
True , I meet plenty of people , grub in little miserable field that would not keep a cat , or herd little kine about the bigness of ass .
The Highland dress be forbid by law since the rebellion , and the people condemn to the Lowland habit , which they much dislike , it be strange to see the variety of their array .
Some go bare , only for a hanging cloak or great-coat , and carry their trouser on their back like a useless burthen : some have make an imitation of the tartan with little parti-coloured stripe patch together like an old wife 's quilt ; others , again , still wear the Highland philabeg , but by put a few stitch between the leg transform it into a pair of trouser like a Dutchman 's .
All those makeshift be condemn and punish , for the law be harshly apply , in hope to break up the clan spirit ; but in that out-of-the-way , sea-bound isle , there be few to make remark and few to tell tale .
They seem in great poverty ; which be no doubt natural , now that rapine be put down , and the chief keep no longer an open house ; and the road -LRB- even such a wandering , country by-track a the one I follow -RRB- be infest with beggar .
And here again I mark a difference from my own part of the country .
For our Lowland beggar -- even the gownsmen themselves , who beg by patent -- have a louting , flatter way with them , and if you give them a plaek and ask change , would very civilly return you a boddle .
But these Highland beggar stand on their dignity , ask alms only to buy snuff -LRB- by their account -RRB- and would give no change .
To be sure , this be no concern of mine , except in so far a it entertain me by the way .
What be much more to the purpose , few have any English , and these few -LRB- unless they be of the brotherhood of beggar -RRB- not very anxious to place it at my service .
I know Torosay to be my destination , and repeat the name to them and point ; but instead of simply point in reply , they would give me a screed of the Gaelic that set me foolish ; so it be small wonder if I go out of my road as often a I stay in it .
At last , about eight at night , and already very weary , I come to a lone house , where I ask admittance , and be refuse , until I bethink me of the power of money in so poor a country , and hold up one of my guinea in my finger and thumb .
Thereupon , the man of the house , who have hitherto pretend to have no English , and drive me from his door by signal , suddenly begin to speak as clearly a be needful , and agree for five shilling to give me a night 's lodging and guide me the next day to Torosay .
I sleep uneasily that night , fear I should be rob ; but I might have spar myself the pain ; for my host be no robber , only miserably poor and a great cheat .
He be not alone in his poverty ; for the next morning , we must go five mile about to the house of what he call a rich man to have one of my guinea change .
This be perhaps a rich man for Mull ; he would have scarce be think so in the south ; for it take all he have -- the whole house be turn upside down , and a neighbour brought under contribution , before he could scrape together twenty shilling in silver .
The odd shilling he keep for himself , protest he could ill afford to have so great a sum of money lie `` lock up . ''
For all that he be very courteous and well speak , make u both sit down with his family to dinner , and brew punch in a fine china bowl , over which my rascal guide grow so merry that he refuse to start .
I be for get angry , and appeal to the rich man -LRB- Hector Maclean be his name -RRB- , who have be a witness to our bargain and to my payment of the five shilling .
But Maclean have take his share of the punch , and vow that no gentleman should leave his table after the bowl be brew ; so there be nothing for it but to sit and hear Jacobite toast and Gaelic song , till all be tipsy and stagger off to the bed or the barn for their night 's rest .
Next day -LRB- the fourth of my travel -RRB- we be up before five upon the clock ; but my rascal guide get to the bottle at once , and it be three hour before I have him clear of the house , and then -LRB- a you shall hear -RRB- only for a bad disappointment .
As long a we go down a heathery valley that lay before Mr. Maclean 's house , all go well ; only my guide look constantly over his shoulder , and when I ask him the cause , only grin at me .
No sooner , however , have we cross the back of a hill , and get out of sight of the house windows , than he tell me Torosay lay right in front , and that a hill-top -LRB- which he point out -RRB- be my best landmark .
`` I care very little for that , '' say I , `` since you be go with me . ''
The impudent cheat answer me in the Gaelic that he have no English .
`` My fine fellow , '' I say , `` I know very well your English come and go .
Tell me what will bring it back ?
Is it more money you wish ? ''
`` Five shilling mair , '' say he , `` and hersel ' will bring ye there . ''
I reflect awhile and then offer him two , which he accept greedily , and insist on have in his hand at once `` for luck , '' a he say , but I think it be rather for my misfortune .
The two shilling carry him not quite a many mile ; at the end of which distance , he sit down upon the wayside and take off his brogue from his foot , like a man about to rest .
I be now red-hot .
`` Ha ! ''
say I , `` have you no more English ? ''
He say impudently , `` No . ''
At that I boil over , and lift my hand to strike him ; and he , draw a knife from his rag , squat back and grin at me like a wildcat .
At that , forget everything but my anger , I run in upon him , put aside his knife with my left , and strike him in the mouth with the right .
I be a strong lad and very angry , and he but a little man ; and he go down before me heavily .
By good luck , his knife fly out of his hand a he fell .
I pick up both that and his brogue , wish him a good morning , and set off upon my way , leave him barefoot and disarm .
I chuckle to myself a I go , be sure I be do with that rogue , for a variety of reason .
First , he know he could have no more of my money ; next , the brogue be worth in that country only a few penny ; and , lastly , the knife , which be really a dagger , it be against the law for him to carry .
In about half an hour of walk , I overtake a great , ragged man , move pretty fast but feel before him with a staff .
He be quite blind , and tell me he be a catechist , which should have put me at my ease .
But his face go against me ; it seem dark and dangerous and secret ; and presently , a we begin to go on alongside , I saw the steel butt of a pistol stick from under the flap of his coat-pocket .
To carry such a thing mean a fine of fifteen pound sterling upon a first offence , and transportation to the colony upon a second .
Nor could I quite see why a religious teacher should go armed , or what a blind man could be do with a pistol .
I tell him about my guide , for I be proud of what I have do , and my vanity for once get the heel of my prudence .
At the mention of the five shilling he cry out so loud that I make up my mind I should say nothing of the other two , and be glad he could not see my blush .
`` Was it too much ? ''
I ask , a little faltering .
`` Too much ! ''
cry he .
`` Why , I will guide you to Torosay myself for a dram of brandy .
And give you the great pleasure of my company -LRB- me that be a man of some learn -RRB- in the bargain . ''
I say I do not see how a blind man could be a guide ; but at that he laugh aloud , and say his stick be eye enough for an eagle .
`` In the Isle of Mull , at least , '' say he , `` where I know every stone and heather-bush by mark of head .
See , now , '' he say , strike right and leave , a if to make sure , `` down there a burn be run ; and at the head of it there stand a bit of a small hill with a stone cock upon the top of that ; and it 's hard at the foot of the hill , that the way run by to Torosay ; and the way here , be for drove , be plainly trodden , and will show grassy through the heather . ''
I have to own he be right in every feature , and tell my wonder .
`` Ha ! ''
say he , `` that 's nothing .
Would ye believe me now , that before the Act come out , and when there be weepons in this country , I could shoot ?
Ay , could I ! ''
cry he , and then with a leer : `` If ye have such a thing a a pistol here to try with , I would show ye how it 's do . ''
I tell him I have nothing of the sort , and give him a wider berth .
If he have know , his pistol stuck at that time quite plainly out of his pocket , and I could see the sun twinkle on the steel of the butt .
But by the good luck for me , he know nothing , think all be cover , and lie on in the dark .
He then begin to question me cunningly , where I come from , whether I be rich , whether I could change a five-shilling piece for him -LRB- which he declare he have that moment in his sporran -RRB- , and all the time he keep edge up to me and I avoid him .
We be now upon a sort of green cattle-track which cross the hill towards Torosay , and we keep change side upon that like dancer in a reel .
I have so plainly the upper-hand that my spirit rise , and indeed I take a pleasure in this game of blindman 's buff ; but the catechist grow angry and angry , and at last begin to swear in Gaelic and to strike for my leg with his staff .
Then I tell him that , sure enough , I have a pistol in my pocket as well a he , and if he do not strike across the hill due south I would even blow his brain out .
He become at once very polite , and after try to soften me for some time , but quite in vain , he curse me once more in Gaelic and take himself off .
I watch him stride along , through bog and brier , tap with his stick , until he turn the end of a hill and disappear in the next hollow .
Then I strike on again for Torosay , much well pleased to be alone than to travel with that man of learning .
This be an unlucky day ; and these two , of whom I have just rid myself , one after the other , be the two bad men I meet with in the Highlands .
At Torosay , on the Sound of Mull and look over to the mainland of Morven , there be an inn with an innkeeper , who be a Maclean , it appear , of a very high family ; for to keep an inn be think even more genteel in the Highlands than it be with u , perhaps a partaking of hospitality , or perhaps because the trade be idle and drunken .
He speak good English , and find me to be something of a scholar , try me first in French , where he easily beat me , and then in the Latin , in which I do n't know which of u do best .
This pleasant rivalry put u at once upon friendly term ; and I sit up and drink punch with him -LRB- or to be more correct , sit up and watch him drink it -RRB- , until he be so tipsy that he weep upon my shoulder .
I try him , a if by accident , with a sight of Alan 's button ; but it be plain he have never see or hear of it .
Indeed , he bore some grudge against the family and friend of Ardshiel , and before he be drunk he read me a lampoon , in very good Latin , but with a very ill meaning , which he have make in elegiac verse upon a person of that house .
When I tell him of my catechist , he shake his head , and say I be lucky to have get clear off .
`` That be a very dangerous man , '' he say ; `` Duncan Mackiegh be his name ; he can shoot by the ear at several yard , and have be often accuse of highway robbery , and once of murder . ''
`` The cream of it be , '' say I , `` that he call himself a catechist . ''
`` And why should he not ? ''
say he , `` when that be what he be .
It be Maclean of Duart give it to him because he be blind .
But perhaps it be a peety , '' say my host , `` for he be always on the road , go from one place to another to hear the young folk say their religion ; and , doubtless , that be a great temptation to the poor man . ''
At last , when my landlord could drink no more , he show me to a bed , and I lay down in very good spirit ; have travel the great part of that big and crooked Island of Mull , from Earraid to Torosay , fifty mile a the crow fly , and -LRB- with my wandering -RRB- much near a hundred , in four day and with little fatigue .
Indeed I be by far in good heart and health of body at the end of that long tramp than I have be at the beginning .
CHAPTER XVI THE LAD WITH THE SILVER BUTTON : ACROSS MORVEN There be a regular ferry from Torosay to Kinlochaline on the mainland .
Both shore of the Sound be in the country of the strong clan of the Macleans , and the people that pass the ferry with me be almost all of that clan .
The skipper of the boat , on the other hand , be call Neil Roy Macrob ; and since Macrob be one of the name of Alan 's clansman , and Alan himself have send me to that ferry , I be eager to come to private speech of Neil Roy .
In the crowded boat this be of course impossible , and the passage be a very slow affair .
There be no wind , and a the boat be wretchedly equip , we could pull but two oar on one side , and one on the other .
The men give way , however , with a good will , the passenger take spell to help them , and the whole company give the time in Gaelic boat-songs .
And what with the song , and the sea-air , and the good-nature and spirit of all concern , and the bright weather , the passage be a pretty thing to have see .
But there be one melancholy part .
In the mouth of Loch Aline we find a great sea-going ship at anchor ; and this I suppose at first to be one of the King 's cruiser which be keep along that coast , both summer and winter , to prevent communication with the French .
As we get a little nearer , it become plain she be a ship of merchandise ; and what still more puzzled me , not only her deck , but the sea-beach also , be quite black with people , and skiff be continually ply to and fro between them .
Yet nearer , and there begin to come to our ear a great sound of mourning , the people on board and those on the shore cry and lament one to another so a to pierce the heart .
Then I understand this be an emigrant ship bound for the American colony .
We put the ferry-boat alongside , and the exile lean over the bulwark , weep and reach out their hand to my fellow-passengers , among whom they count some near friend .
How long this might have go on I do not know , for they seem to have no sense of time : but at last the captain of the ship , who seem near beside himself -LRB- and no great wonder -RRB- in the midst of this cry and confusion , come to the side and beg u to depart .
Thereupon Neil sheer off ; and the chief singer in our boat strike into a melancholy air , which be presently take up both by the emigrant and their friend upon the beach , so that it sound from all side like a lament for the dying .
I saw the tear run down the cheek of the men and woman in the boat , even a they bend at the oar ; and the circumstance and the music of the song -LRB- which be one call `` Lochaber no more '' -RRB- be highly affect even to myself .
At Kinlochaline I get Neil Roy upon one side on the beach , and say I make sure he be one of Appin 's men .
`` And what for no ? ''
say he .
`` I be seek somebody , '' say I ; `` and it come in my mind that you will have news of him .
Alan Breck Stewart be his name . ''
And very foolishly , instead of show him the button , I seek to pass a shilling in his hand .
At this he draw back .
`` I be very much affront , '' he say ; `` and this be not the way that one shentleman should behave to another at all .
The man you ask for be in France ; but if he be in my sporran , '' say he , `` and your belly full of shilling , I would not hurt a hair upon his body . ''
I saw I have go the wrong way to work , and without waste time upon apology , show him the button lying in the hollow of my palm .
`` Aweel , aweel , '' say Neil ; `` and I think ye might have begin with that end of the stick , whatever !
But if ye be the lad with the silver button , all be well , and I have the word to see that ye come safe .
But if ye will pardon me to speak plainly , '' say he , `` there be a name that you should never take into your mouth , and that be the name of Alan Breck ; and there be a thing that ye would never do , and that be to offer your dirty money to a Hieland shentleman . ''
It be not very easy to apologise ; for I could scarce tell him -LRB- what be the truth -RRB- that I have never dream he would set up to be a gentleman until he tell me so .
Neil on his part have no wish to prolong his dealing with me , only to fulfil his order and be do with it ; and he make haste to give me my route .
This be to lie the night in Kinlochaline in the public inn ; to cross Morven the next day to Ardgour , and lie the night in the house of one John of the Claymore , who be warn that I might come ; the third day , to be set across one loch at Corran and another at Balachulish , and then ask my way to the house of James of the Glens , at Aucharn in Duror of Appin .
There be a good deal of ferrying , a you hear ; the sea in all this part run deep into the mountain and wind about their root .
It make the country strong to hold and difficult to travel , but full of prodigious wild and dreadful prospect .
I have some other advice from Neil : to speak with no one by the way , to avoid Whigs , Campbells , and the `` red-soldiers ; '' to leave the road and lie in a bush if I saw any of the latter coming , `` for it be never chancy to meet in with them ; '' and in brief , to conduct myself like a robber or a Jacobite agent , a perhaps Neil think me .
The inn at Kinlochaline be the most beggarly vile place that ever pig be styed in , full of smoke , vermin , and silent Highlanders .
I be not only discontent with my lodging , but with myself for my mismanagement of Neil , and think I could hardly be bad off .
But very wrongly , a I be soon to see ; for I have not be half an hour at the inn -LRB- stand in the door most of the time , to ease my eye from the peat smoke -RRB- when a thunderstorm come close by , the spring break in a little hill on which the inn stand , and one end of the house become a running water .
Places of public entertainment be bad enough all over Scotland in those day ; yet it be a wonder to myself , when I have to go from the fireside to the bed in which I sleep , wad over the shoe .
Early in my next day 's journey I overtake a little , stout , solemn man , walk very slowly with his toe turn out , sometimes read in a book and sometimes mark the place with his finger , and dress decently and plainly in something of a clerical style .
This I find to be another catechist , but of a different order from the blind man of Mull : be indeed one of those send out by the Edinburgh Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge , to evangelise the more savage place of the Highlands .
His name be Henderland ; he speak with the broad south-country tongue , which I be begin to weary for the sound of ; and besides common countryship , we soon find we have a more particular bond of interest .
For my good friend , the minister of Essendean , have translate into the Gaelic in his by-time a number of hymn and pious book which Henderland use in his work , and hold in great esteem .
Indeed , it be one of these he be carry and read when we meet .
We fell in company at once , our way lie together as far a to Kingairloch .
As we go , he stop and speak with all the wayfarer and worker that we meet or pass ; and though of course I could not tell what they discourse about , yet I judge Mr. Henderland must be well like in the countryside , for I observe many of them to bring out their mull and share a pinch of snuff with him .
I tell him a far in my affair a I judge wise ; a far , that be , a they be none of Alan 's ; and give Balachulish a the place I be travel to , to meet a friend ; for I think Aucharn , or even Duror , would be too particular , and might put him on the scent .
On his part , he tell me much of his work and the people he work among , the hiding priest and Jacobites , the Disarming Act , the dress , and many other curiosity of the time and place .
He seem moderate ; blame Parliament in several point , and especially because they have frame the Act more severely against those who wear the dress than against those who carry weapon .
This moderation put it in my mind to question him of the Red Fox and the Appin tenant ; question which , I think , would seem natural enough in the mouth of one travelling to that country .
He say it be a bad business .
`` It 's wonderful , '' say he , `` where the tenant find the money , for their life be mere starvation .
-LRB- Ye do n't carry such a thing a snuff , do ye , Mr. Balfour ?
No .
Well , I 'm well want it . -RRB-
But these tenant -LRB- a I be say -RRB- be doubtless partly drive to it .
James Stewart in Duror -LRB- that 's him they call James of the Glens -RRB- be half-brother to Ardshiel , the captain of the clan ; and he be a man much look up to , and drive very hard .
And then there 's one they call Alan Breck -- '' `` Ah ! ''
I cry , `` what of him ? ''
`` What of the wind that bloweth where it listeth ? ''
say Henderland .
`` He 's here and awa ; here to-day and go to-morrow : a fair heather-cat .
He might be glower at the two of u out of yon whin-bush , and I wouldnae wonder !
Ye 'll no carry such a thing a snuff , will ye ? ''
I tell him no , and that he have ask the same thing more than once .
`` It 's highly possible , '' say he , sigh .
`` But it seem strange ye shouldnae carry it .
However , a I be say , this Alan Breck be a bold , desperate customer , and well kent to be James 's right hand .
His life be forfeit already ; he would boggle at naething ; and maybe , if a tenant-body be to hang back he would get a dirk in his wame . ''
`` You make a poor story of it all , Mr. Henderland , '' say I . `` If it be all fear upon both side , I care to hear no more of it . ''
`` Na , '' say Mr. Henderland , `` but there 's love too , and self-denial that should put the like of you and me to shame .
There 's something fine about it ; no perhaps Christian , but humanly fine .
Even Alan Breck , by all that I hear , be a chield to be respect .
There 's many a lying sneck-draw sits close in kirk in our own part of the country , and stand well in the world 's eye , and maybe be a far bad man , Mr. Balfour , than yon misguided shedder of man 's blood .
Ay , ay , we might take a lesson by them .
-- Ye 'll perhaps think I 've be too long in the Hielands ? ''
he add , smile to me .
I tell him not at all ; that I have see much to admire among the Highlanders ; and if he come to that , Mr. Campbell himself be a Highlander .
`` Ay , '' say he , `` that 's true .
It 's a fine blood . ''
`` And what be the King 's agent about ? ''
I ask .
`` Colin Campbell ? ''
say Henderland .
`` Putting his head in a bee ' byke ! ''
`` He be to turn the tenant out by force , I hear ? ''
say I . `` Yes , '' say he , `` but the business have go back and forth , a folk say .
First , James of the Glens rode to Edinburgh , and get some lawyer -LRB- a Stewart , nae doubt -- they all hing together like bat in a steeple -RRB- and have the proceeding stay .
And then Colin Campbell cam ' in again , and have the upper-hand before the Barons of Exchequer .
And now they tell me the first of the tenant be to flit to-morrow .
It 's to begin at Duror under James 's very window , which doesnae seem wise by my humble way of it . ''
`` Do you think they 'll fight ? ''
I ask .
`` Well , '' say Henderland , `` they 're disarm -- or suppose to be -- for there 's still a good deal of cold iron lying by in quiet place .
And then Colin Campbell have the sogers come .
But for all that , if I be his lady wife , I wouldnae be well pleased till I get him home again .
They 're queer customer , the Appin Stewarts . ''
I ask if they be bad than their neighbour .
`` No they , '' say he .
`` And that 's the bad part of it .
For if Colin Roy can get his business do in Appin , he have it all to begin again in the next country , which they call Mamore , and which be one of the country of the Camerons .
He 's King 's Factor upon both , and from both he have to drive out the tenant ; and indeed , Mr. Balfour -LRB- to be open with ye -RRB- , it 's my belief that if he escape the one lot , he 'll get his death by the other . ''
So we continue talk and walk the great part of the day ; until at last , Mr. Henderland after express his delight in my company , and satisfaction at meet with a friend of Mr. Campbell 's -LRB- `` whom , '' say he , `` I will make bold to call that sweet singer of our covenanted Zion '' -RRB- , propose that I should make a short stage , and lie the night in his house a little beyond Kingairloch .
To say truth , I be overjoy ; for I have no great desire for John of the Claymore , and since my double misadventure , first with the guide and next with the gentleman skipper , I stand in some fear of any Highland stranger .
Accordingly we shake hand upon the bargain , and come in the afternoon to a small house , stand alone by the shore of the Linnhe Loch .
The sun be already go from the desert mountain of Ardgour upon the hither side , but shone on those of Appin on the farther ; the loch lay as still a a lake , only the gull be cry round the side of it ; and the whole place seem solemn and uncouth .
We have no sooner come to the door of Mr. Henderland 's dwelling , than to my great surprise -LRB- for I be now use to the politeness of Highlanders -RRB- he burst rudely past me , dash into the room , catch up a jar and a small horn-spoon , and begin ladle snuff into his nose in most excessive quantity .
Then he have a hearty fit of sneezing , and look round upon me with a rather silly smile .
`` It 's a vow I take , '' say he .
`` I take a vow upon me that I wouldnae carry it .
Doubtless it 's a great privation ; but when I think upon the martyr , not only to the Scottish Covenant but to other point of Christianity , I think shame to mind it . ''
As soon a we have eat -LRB- and porridge and whey be the best of the good man 's diet -RRB- he take a grave face and say he have a duty to perform by Mr. Campbell , and that be to inquire into my state of mind towards God .
I be incline to smile at him since the business of the snuff ; but he have not speak long before he bring the tear into my eye .
There be two thing that men should never weary of , goodness and humility ; we get none too much of them in this rough world among cold , proud people ; but Mr. Henderland have their very speech upon his tongue .
And though I be a good deal puff up with my adventure and with have come off , a the saying be , with fly colour ; yet he soon have me on my knee beside a simple , poor old man , and both proud and glad to be there .
Before we go to bed he offer me sixpence to help me on my way , out of a scanty store he keep in the turf wall of his house ; at which excess of goodness I know not what to do .
But at last he be so earnest with me that I think it the more mannerly part to let him have his way , and so leave him poor than myself .
CHAPTER XVII THE DEATH OF THE RED FOX The next day Mr. Henderland find for me a man who have a boat of his own and be to cross the Linnhe Loch that afternoon into Appin , fishing .
Him he prevail on to take me , for he be one of his flock ; and in this way I save a long day 's travel and the price of the two public ferry I must otherwise have pass .
It be near noon before we set out ; a dark day with cloud , and the sun shin upon little patch .
The sea be here very deep and still , and have scarce a wave upon it ; so that I must put the water to my lip before I could believe it to be truly salt .
The mountain on either side be high , rough and barren , very black and gloomy in the shadow of the cloud , but all silver-laced with little watercourse where the sun shone upon them .
It seem a hard country , this of Appin , for people to care a much about a Alan do .
There be but one thing to mention .
A little after we have start , the sun shone upon a little move clump of scarlet close in along the water-side to the north .
It be much of the same red a soldier ' coat ; every now and then , too , there come little spark and lightning , a though the sun have strike upon bright steel .
I ask my boatman what it should be , and he answer he suppose it be some of the red soldier come from Fort William into Appin , against the poor tenantry of the country .
Well , it be a sad sight to me ; and whether it be because of my thought of Alan , or from something prophetic in my bosom , although this be but the second time I have see King George 's troop , I have no good will to them .
At last we come so near the point of land at the enter in of Loch Leven that I beg to be set on shore .
My boatman -LRB- who be an honest fellow and mindful of his promise to the catechist -RRB- would fain have carry me on to Balachulish ; but a this be to take me far from my secret destination , I insist , and be set on shore at last under the wood of Lettermore -LRB- or Lettervore , for I have hear it both way -RRB- in Alan 's country of Appin .
This be a wood of birch , grow on a steep , craggy side of a mountain that overhang the loch .
It have many opening and ferny howe ; and a road or bridle track run north and south through the midst of it , by the edge of which , where be a spring , I sit down to eat some oat-bread of Mr. Henderland 's and think upon my situation .
Here I be not only troubled by a cloud of sting midge , but far more by the doubt of my mind .
What I ought to do , why I be go to join myself with an outlaw and a would-be murderer like Alan , whether I should not be act more like a man of sense to tramp back to the south country direct , by my own guidance and at my own charge , and what Mr. Campbell or even Mr. Henderland would think of me if they should ever learn my folly and presumption : these be the doubt that now begin to come in on me strong than ever .
As I be so sitting and thinking , a sound of men and horse come to me through the wood ; and presently after , at a turning of the road , I saw four traveller come into view .
The way be in this part so rough and narrow that they come single and lead their horse by the rein .
The first be a great , red-headed gentleman , of an imperious and flushed face , who carry his hat in his hand and fan himself , for he be in a breathing heat .
The second , by his decent black garb and white wig , I correctly take to be a lawyer .
The third be a servant , and wear some part of his clothes in tartan , which show that his master be of a Highland family , and either an outlaw or else in singular good odour with the Government , since the wearing of tartan be against the Act .
If I have be well verse in these thing , I would have know the tartan to be of the Argyle -LRB- or Campbell -RRB- colour .
This servant have a good-sized portmanteau strap on his horse , and a net of lemon -LRB- to brew punch with -RRB- hang at the saddle-bow ; a be often enough the custom with luxurious traveller in that part of the country .
As for the fourth , who bring up the tail , I have see his like before , and know him at once to be a sheriff 's officer .
I have no sooner see these people come than I make up my mind -LRB- for no reason that I can tell -RRB- to go through with my adventure ; and when the first come alongside of me , I rise up from the bracken and ask him the way to Aucharn .
He stop and look at me , a I think , a little oddly ; and then , turn to the lawyer , `` Mungo , '' say he , `` there 's many a man would think this more of a warning than two pyats .
Here be I on my road to Duror on the job ye ken ; and here be a young lad start up out of the bracken , and speer if I be on the way to Aucharn . ''
`` Glenure , '' say the other , `` this be an ill subject for jesting . ''
These two have now draw close up and be gaze at me , while the two follower have halt about a stone-cast in the rear .
`` And what seek ye in Aucharn ? ''
say Colin Roy Campbell of Glenure , him they call the Red Fox ; for he it be that I have stop .
`` The man that live there , '' say I . `` James of the Glens , '' say Glenure , musingly ; and then to the lawyer : `` Is he gather his people , think ye ? ''
`` Anyway , '' say the lawyer , `` we shall do good to bide where we be , and let the soldier rally u . ''
`` If you be concern for me , '' say I , `` I be neither of his people nor yours , but an honest subject of King George , owe no man and fear no man . ''
`` Why , very well say , '' reply the Factor .
`` But if I may make so bold a ask , what do this honest man so far from his country ?
and why do he come seek the brother of Ardshiel ?
I have power here , I must tell you .
I be King 's Factor upon several of these estate , and have twelve file of soldier at my back . ''
`` I have hear a waif word in the country , '' say I , a little nettled , `` that you be a hard man to drive . ''
He still keep look at me , a if in doubt .
`` Well , '' say he , at last , `` your tongue be bold ; but I be no unfriend to plainness .
If ye have ask me the way to the door of James Stewart on any other day but this , I would have set ye right and bidden ye God speed .
But to-day -- eh , Mungo ? ''
And he turn again to look at the lawyer .
But just a he turn there come the shot of a firelock from high up the hill ; and with the very sound of it Glenure fell upon the road .
`` O , I be dead ! ''
he cry , several time over .
The lawyer have catch him up and hold him in his arm , the servant standing over and clasp his hand .
And now the wounded man look from one to another with scared eye , and there be a change in his voice , that go to the heart .
`` Take care of yourselves , '' say he .
`` I be dead . ''
He try to open his clothes a if to look for the wound , but his finger slip on the button .
With that he give a great sigh , his head roll on his shoulder , and he pass away .
The lawyer say never a word , but his face be as sharp a a pen and as white a the dead man 's ; the servant break out into a great noise of cry and weep , like a child ; and I , on my side , stand star at them in a kind of horror .
The sheriff 's officer have run back at the first sound of the shot , to hasten the come of the soldier .
At last the lawyer lay down the dead man in his blood upon the road , and get to his own foot with a kind of stagger .
I believe it be his movement that bring me to my sens ; for he have no sooner do so than I begin to scramble up the hill , cry out , `` The murderer !
the murderer ! ''
So little a time have elapse , that when I get to the top of the first steepness , and could see some part of the open mountain , the murderer be still move away at no great distance .
He be a big man , in a black coat , with metal button , and carry a long fowling-piece .
`` Here ! ''
I cry .
`` I see him ! ''
At that the murderer give a little , quick look over his shoulder , and begin to run .
The next moment he be lose in a fringe of birch ; then he come out again on the upper side , where I could see him climb like a jackanapes , for that part be again very steep ; and then he dip behind a shoulder , and I saw him no more .
All this time I have be run on my side , and have get a good way up , when a voice cry upon me to stand .
I be at the edge of the upper wood , and so now , when I halt and look back , I saw all the open part of the hill below me .
The lawyer and the sheriff 's officer be stand just above the road , cry and wave on me to come back ; and on their left , the red-coats , musket in hand , be begin to struggle singly out of the low wood .
`` Why should I come back ? ''
I cry .
`` Come you on ! ''
`` Ten pound if ye take that lad ! ''
cry the lawyer .
`` He 's an accomplice .
He be post here to hold u in talk . ''
At that word -LRB- which I could hear quite plainly , though it be to the soldier and not to me that he be cry it -RRB- my heart come in my mouth with quite a new kind of terror .
Indeed , it be one thing to stand the danger of your life , and quite another to run the peril of both life and character .
The thing , besides , have come so suddenly , like thunder out of a clear sky , that I be all amaze and helpless .
The soldier begin to spread , some of them to run , and others to put up their piece and cover me ; and still I stand .
`` Jock * in here among the tree , '' say a voice close by .
* Duck .
Indeed , I scarce know what I be do , but I obey ; and a I do so , I hear the firelock bang and the ball whistle in the birch .
Just inside the shelter of the tree I find Alan Breck standing , with a fishing-rod .
He give me no salutation ; indeed it be no time for civility ; only `` Come ! ''
say he , and set off run along the side of the mountain towards Balachulish ; and I , like a sheep , to follow him .
Now we run among the birch ; now stoop behind low hump upon the mountain-side ; now crawl on all four among the heather .
The pace be deadly : my heart seem burst against my rib ; and I have neither time to think nor breath to speak with .
Only I remember see with wonder , that Alan every now and then would straighten himself to his full height and look back ; and every time he do so , there come a great far-away cheering and cry of the soldier .
Quarter of an hour later , Alan stop , clap down flat in the heather , and turn to me .
`` Now , '' say he , `` it 's earnest .
Do a I do , for your life . ''
And at the same speed , but now with infinitely more precaution , we trace back again across the mountain-side by the same way that we have come , only perhaps high ; till at last Alan throw himself down in the upper wood of Lettermore , where I have find him at the first , and lay , with his face in the bracken , pant like a dog .
My own side so ached , my head so swam , my tongue so hang out of my mouth with heat and dryness , that I lay beside him like one dead .
CHAPTER XVIII I TALK WITH ALAN IN THE WOOD OF LETTERMORE Alan be the first to come round .
He rise , go to the border of the wood , peer out a little , and then return and sit down .
`` Well , '' say he , `` yon be a hot burst , David . ''
I say nothing , nor so much a lifted my face .
I have see murder do , and a great , ruddy , jovial gentleman strike out of life in a moment ; the pity of that sight be still sore within me , and yet that be but a part of my concern .
Here be murder do upon the man Alan hat ; here be Alan skulk in the tree and run from the troop ; and whether his be the hand that fire or only the head that order , signify but little .
By my way of it , my only friend in that wild country be blood-guilty in the first degree ; I hold him in horror ; I could not look upon his face ; I would have rather lain alone in the rain on my cold isle , than in that warm wood beside a murderer .
`` Are ye still weary ? ''
he ask again .
`` No , '' say I , still with my face in the bracken ; `` no , I be not weary now , and I can speak .
You and me must twine , '' * I say .
`` I like you very well , Alan , but your way be not mine , and they 're not God 's : and the short and the long of it be just that we must twine . ''
* Part .
`` I will hardly twine from ye , David , without some kind of reason for the same , '' say Alan , mighty gravely .
`` If ye ken anything against my reputation , it 's the least thing that ye should do , for old acquaintance ' sake , to let me hear the name of it ; and if ye have only take a distaste to my society , it will be proper for me to judge if I 'm insulted . ''
`` Alan , '' say I , `` what be the sense of this ?
Ye ken very well yon Campbell-man lie in his blood upon the road . ''
He be silent for a little ; then say he , `` Did ever ye hear tell of the story of the Man and the Good People ? ''
-- by which he mean the fairy .
`` No , '' say I , `` nor do I want to hear it . ''
`` With your permission , Mr. Balfour , I will tell it you , whatever , '' say Alan .
`` The man , ye should ken , be cast upon a rock in the sea , where it appear the Good People be in use to come and rest a they go through to Ireland .
The name of this rock be call the Skerryvore , and it 's not far from where we suffer ship-wreck .
Well , it seem the man cry so sore , if he could just see his little bairn before he die !
that at last the king of the Good People take peety upon him , and send one flying that bring back the bairn in a poke * and lay it down beside the man where he lay sleep .
So when the man wake , there be a poke beside him and something into the inside of it that move .
Well , it seem he be one of these gentry that think aye the bad of thing ; and for great security , he stick his dirk throughout that poke before he open it , and there be his bairn dead .
I be think to myself , Mr. Balfour , that you and the man be very much alike . ''
* Bag .
`` Do you mean you have no hand in it ? ''
cry I , sit up .
`` I will tell you first of all , Mr. Balfour of Shaws , a one friend to another , '' say Alan , `` that if I be go to kill a gentleman , it would not be in my own country , to bring trouble on my clan ; and I would not go want sword and gun , and with a long fishing-rod upon my back . ''
`` Well , '' say I , `` that 's true ! ''
`` And now , '' continue Alan , take out his dirk and lay his hand upon it in a certain manner , `` I swear upon the Holy Iron I have neither art nor part , act nor thought in it . ''
`` I thank God for that ! ''
cry I , and offer him my hand .
He do not appear to see it .
`` And here be a great deal of work about a Campbell ! ''
say he .
`` They be not so scarce , that I ken ! ''
`` At least , '' say I , `` you can not justly blame me , for you know very well what you tell me in the brig . But the temptation and the act be different , I thank God again for that .
We may all be tempt ; but to take a life in cold blood , Alan ! ''
And I could say no more for the moment .
`` And do you know who do it ? ''
I add .
`` Do you know that man in the black coat ? ''
`` I have nae clear mind about his coat , '' say Alan cunningly , `` but it stick in my head that it be blue . ''
`` Blue or black , do ye know him ? ''
say I . `` I couldnae just conscientiously swear to him , '' say Alan .
`` He gaed very close by me , to be sure , but it 's a strange thing that I should just have be tie my brogue . ''
`` Can you swear that you do n't know him , Alan ? ''
I cry , half anger , half in a mind to laugh at his evasion .
`` Not yet , '' say he ; `` but I 've a grand memory for forgetting , David . ''
`` And yet there be one thing I saw clearly , '' say I ; `` and that be , that you expose yourself and me to draw the soldier . ''
`` It 's very likely , '' say Alan ; `` and so would any gentleman .
You and me be innocent of that transaction . ''
`` The good reason , since we be falsely suspect , that we should get clear , '' I cry .
`` The innocent should surely come before the guilty . ''
`` Why , David , '' say he , `` the innocent have aye a chance to get assoil in court ; but for the lad that shoot the bullet , I think the best place for him will be the heather .
Them that havenae dip their hand in any little difficulty , should be very mindful of the case of them that have .
And that be the good Christianity .
For if it be the other way round about , and the lad whom I couldnae just clearly see have be in our shoe , and we in his -LRB- a might very well have be -RRB- , I think we would be a good deal oblige to him oursel 's if he would draw the soldier . ''
When it come to this , I give Alan up .
But he look so innocent all the time , and be in such clear good faith in what he say , and so ready to sacrifice himself for what he deem his duty , that my mouth be close .
Mr. Henderland 's word come back to me : that we ourselves might take a lesson by these wild Highlanders .
Well , here I have take mine .
Alan 's moral be all tail-first ; but he be ready to give his life for them , such a they be .
`` Alan , '' say I , `` I 'll not say it 's the good Christianity a I understand it , but it 's good enough .
And here I offer ye my hand for the second time . ''
Whereupon he give me both of his , say surely I have cast a spell upon him , for he could forgive me anything .
Then he grow very grave , and say we have not much time to throw away , but must both flee that country : he , because he be a deserter , and the whole of Appin would now be search like a chamber , and every one oblige to give a good account of himself ; and I , because I be certainly involve in the murder .
`` O ! ''
say I , willing to give him a little lesson , `` I have no fear of the justice of my country . ''
`` As if this be your country ! ''
say he .
`` Or a if ye would be try here , in a country of Stewarts ! ''
`` It 's all Scotland , '' say I . `` Man , I whiles wonder at ye , '' say Alan .
`` This be a Campbell that 's be kill .
Well , it 'll be try in Inverara , the Campbells ' head place ; with fifteen Campbells in the jury-box and the big Campbell of all -LRB- and that 's the Duke -RRB- sit cock on the bench .
Justice , David ?
The same justice , by all the world , a Glenure find awhile ago at the roadside . ''
This frighten me a little , I confess , and would have frighten me more if I have know how nearly exact be Alan 's prediction ; indeed it be but in one point that he exaggerate , there be but eleven Campbells on the jury ; though a the other four be equally in the Duke 's dependence , it matter less than might appear .
Still , I cry out that he be unjust to the Duke of Argyle , who -LRB- for all he be a Whig -RRB- be yet a wise and honest nobleman .
`` Hoot ! ''
say Alan , `` the man 's a Whig , nae doubt ; but I would never deny he be a good chieftain to his clan .
And what would the clan think if there be a Campbell shot , and naebody hang , and their own chief the Justice General ?
But I have often observe , '' say Alan , `` that you Low-country body have no clear idea of what 's right and wrong . ''
At this I do at last laugh out aloud , when to my surprise , Alan join in , and laugh as merrily a myself .
`` Na , na , '' say he , `` we 're in the Hielands , David ; and when I tell ye to run , take my word and run .
Nae doubt it 's a hard thing to skulk and starve in the Heather , but it 's hard yet to lie shackle in a red-coat prison . ''
I ask him whither we should flee ; and a he tell me `` to the Lowlands , '' I be a little well inclined to go with him ; for , indeed , I be grow impatient to get back and have the upper-hand of my uncle .
Besides , Alan make so sure there would be no question of justice in the matter , that I begin to be afraid he might be right .
Of all death , I would truly like least to die by the gallows ; and the picture of that uncanny instrument come into my head with extraordinary clearness -LRB- a I have once see it engrave at the top of a pedlar 's ballad -RRB- and take away my appetite for court of justice .
`` I 'll chance it , Alan , '' say I . `` I 'll go with you . ''
`` But mind you , '' say Alan , `` it 's no small thing .
Ye maun lie bare and hard , and brook many an empty belly .
Your bed shall be the moorcock 's , and your life shall be like the hunted deer 's , and ye shall sleep with your hand upon your weapon .
Ay , man , ye shall taigle many a weary foot , or we get clear !
I tell ye this at the start , for it 's a life that I ken well .
But if ye ask what other chance ye have , I answer : Nane .
Either take to the heather with me , or else hang . ''
`` And that 's a choice very easily make , '' say I ; and we shake hand upon it .
`` And now let 's take another keek at the red-coats , '' say Alan , and he lead me to the north-eastern fringe of the wood .
Looking out between the tree , we could see a great side of mountain , run down exceed steep into the water of the loch .
It be a rough part , all hang stone , and heather , and big scrogs of birchwood ; and away at the far end towards Balachulish , little wee red soldier be dip up and down over hill and howe , and grow small every minute .
There be no cheering now , for I think they have other us for what breath be leave them ; but they still stick to the trail , and doubtless think that we be close in front of them .
Alan watch them , smile to himself .
`` Ay , '' say he , `` they 'll be gey weary before they 've get to the end of that employ !
And so you and me , David , can sit down and eat a bite , and breathe a bit longer , and take a dram from my bottle .
Then we 'll strike for Aucharn , the house of my kinsman , James of the Glens , where I must get my clothes , and my arm , and money to carry u along ; and then , David , we 'll cry , ` Forth , Fortune ! '
and take a cast among the heather . ''
So we sit again and eat and drink , in a place whence we could see the sun go down into a field of great , wild , and houseless mountain , such a I be now condemn to wander in with my companion .
Partly a we so sit , and partly afterwards , on the way to Aucharn , each of u narrate his adventure ; and I shall here set down so much of Alan 's a seem either curious or needful .
It appear he run to the bulwark as soon a the wave be pass ; saw me , and lose me , and saw me again , a I tumble in the roost ; and at last have one glimpse of me cling on the yard .
It be this that put him in some hope I would maybe get to land after all , and make him leave those clue and message which have bring me -LRB- for my sin -RRB- to that unlucky country of Appin .
In the meanwhile , those still on the brig have get the skiff launch , and one or two be on board of her already , when there come a second wave great than the first , and heave the brig out of her place , and would certainly have send her to the bottom , have she not strike and catch on some projection of the reef .
When she have strike first , it have be bows-on , so that the stern have hitherto be low .
But now her stern be throw in the air , and the bow plunge under the sea ; and with that , the water begin to pour into the fore-scuttle like the pouring of a mill-dam .
It take the colour out of Alan 's face , even to tell what follow .
For there be still two men lie impotent in their bunk ; and these , see the water pour in and think the ship have founder , begin to cry out aloud , and that with such harrow cry that all who be on deck tumble one after another into the skiff and fell to their oar .
They be not two hundred yard away , when there come a third great sea ; and at that the brig lift clean over the reef ; her canvas fill for a moment , and she seem to sail in chase of them , but settle all the while ; and presently she draw down and down , a if a hand be draw her ; and the sea close over the Covenant of Dysart .
Never a word they speak a they pull ashore , be stun with the horror of that screaming ; but they have scarce set foot upon the beach when Hoseason wake up , a if out of a muse , and bid them lay hand upon Alan .
They hang back indeed , have little taste for the employment ; but Hoseason be like a fiend , cry that Alan be alone , that he have a great sum about him , that he have be the mean of lose the brig and drown all their comrade , and that here be both revenge and wealth upon a single cast .
It be seven against one ; in that part of the shore there be no rock that Alan could set his back to ; and the sailor begin to spread out and come behind him .
`` And then , '' say Alan , `` the little man with the red head -- I havenae mind of the name that he be call . ''
`` Riach , '' say I . `` Ay '' say Alan , `` Riach !
Well , it be him that take up the club for me , ask the men if they werenae fear of a judgment , and , say he ` Dod , I 'll put my back to the Hielandman 's mysel ' . '
That 's none such an entirely bad little man , yon little man with the red head , '' say Alan .
`` He have some spunk of decency . ''
`` Well , '' say I , `` he be kind to me in his way . ''
`` And so he be to Alan , '' say he ; `` and by my troth , I find his way a very good one !
But ye see , David , the loss of the ship and the cry of these poor lad sit very ill upon the man ; and I 'm think that would be the cause of it . ''
`` Well , I would think so , '' say I ; `` for he be as keen a any of the rest at the beginning .
But how do Hoseason take it ? ''
`` It stick in my mind that he would take it very ill , '' say Alan .
`` But the little man cry to me to run , and indeed I think it be a good observe , and run .
The last that I saw they be all in a knot upon the beach , like folk that be not agree very well together . ''
`` What do you mean by that ? ''
say I . `` Well , the fist be go , '' say Alan ; `` and I saw one man go down like a pair of breeks .
But I think it would be good no to wait .
Ye see there 's a strip of Campbells in that end of Mull , which be no good company for a gentleman like me .
If it hadnae be for that I would have wait and look for ye mysel ' , let alone give a hand to the little man . ''
-LRB- It be droll how Alan dwell on Mr. Riach 's stature , for , to say the truth , the one be not much small than the other . -RRB-
`` So , '' say he , continue , `` I set my best foot forward , and whenever I meet in with any one I cry out there be a wreck ashore .
Man , they didnae stop to fash with me !
Ye should have see them link for the beach !
And when they get there they find they have have the pleasure of a run , which be aye good for a Campbell .
I 'm think it be a judgment on the clan that the brig go down in the lump and didnae break .
But it be a very unlucky thing for you , that same ; for if any wreck have come ashore they would have hunt high and low , and would soon have find ye . ''
CHAPTER XIX THE HOUSE OF FEAR Night fell a we be walk , and the cloud , which have break up in the afternoon , settle in and thicken , so that it fell , for the season of the year , extremely dark .
The way we go be over rough mountainside ; and though Alan push on with an assured manner , I could by no mean see how he direct himself .
At last , about half-past ten of the clock , we come to the top of a brae , and saw light below u .
It seem a house door stand open and let out a beam of fire and candle-light ; and all round the house and steading five or six person be move hurriedly about , each carry a lighted brand .
`` James must have tint his wit , '' say Alan .
`` If this be the soldier instead of you and me , he would be in a bonny mess .
But I dare say he 'll have a sentry on the road , and he would ken well enough no soldier would find the way that we come . ''
Hereupon he whistle three time , in a particular manner .
It be strange to see how , at the first sound of it , all the move torch come to a stand , a if the bearer be affright ; and how , at the third , the bustle begin again a before .
Having thus set folk ' mind at rest , we come down the brae , and be meet at the yard gate -LRB- for this place be like a well-doing farm -RRB- by a tall , handsome man of more than fifty , who cry out to Alan in the Gaelic .
`` James Stewart , '' say Alan , `` I will ask ye to speak in Scotch , for here be a young gentleman with me that have nane of the other .
This be him , '' he add , put his arm through mine , `` a young gentleman of the Lowlands , and a laird in his country too , but I be think it will be the good for his health if we give his name the go-by . ''
James of the Glens turn to me for a moment , and greet me courteously enough ; the next he have turn to Alan .
`` This have be a dreadful accident , '' he cry .
`` It will bring trouble on the country . ''
And he wring his hand .
`` Hoots ! ''
say Alan , `` ye must take the sour with the sweet , man .
Colin Roy be dead , and be thankful for that ! ''
`` Ay '' say James , `` and by my troth , I wish he be alive again !
It 's all very fine to blow and boast beforehand ; but now it 's do , Alan ; and who 's to bear the wyte * of it ?
The accident fell out in Appin -- mind ye that , Alan ; it 's Appin that must pay ; and I be a man that have a family . ''
* Blame .
While this be go on I look about me at the servant .
Some be on ladder , dig in the thatch of the house or the farm building , from which they bring out gun , sword , and different weapon of war ; others carry them away ; and by the sound of mattock blow from somewhere farther down the brae , I suppose they bury them .
Though they be all so busy , there prevail no kind of order in their effort ; men struggle together for the same gun and run into each other with their burning torch ; and James be continually turn about from his talk with Alan , to cry out order which be apparently never understood .
The face in the torchlight be like those of people overbear with hurry and panic ; and though none speak above his breath , their speech sound both anxious and angry .
It be about this time that a lassie come out of the house carry a pack or bundle ; and it have often make me smile to think how Alan 's instinct awoke at the mere sight of it .
`` What 's that the lassie have ? ''
he ask .
`` We 're just set the house in order , Alan , '' say James , in his frightened and somewhat fawning way .
`` They 'll search Appin with candle , and we must have all thing straight .
We 're dig the bit gun and sword into the moss , ye see ; and these , I be think , will be your ain French clothes .
We 'll be to bury them , I believe . ''
`` Bury my French clothes ! ''
cry Alan .
`` Troth , no ! ''
And he lay hold upon the packet and retire into the barn to shift himself , recommend me in the meanwhile to his kinsman .
James carry me accordingly into the kitchen , and sit down with me at table , smile and talk at first in a very hospitable manner .
But presently the gloom return upon him ; he sit frown and bite his finger ; only remember me from time to time ; and then give me but a word or two and a poor smile , and back into his private terror .
His wife sit by the fire and wept , with her face in her hand ; his eldest son be crouch upon the floor , run over a great mass of paper and now and again set one alight and burn it to the bitter end ; all the while a servant lass with a red face be rummage about the room , in a blind hurry of fear , and whimper a she go ; and every now and again one of the men would thrust in his face from the yard , and cry for order .
At last James could keep his seat no longer , and beg my permission to be so unmannerly a walk about .
`` I be but poor company altogether , sir , '' say he , `` but I can think of nothing but this dreadful accident , and the trouble it be like to bring upon quite innocent person . ''
A little after he observe his son burn a paper which he think should have be keep ; and at that his excitement burst out so that it be painful to witness .
He strike the lad repeatedly .
`` Are you go gyte ? ''
* he cry .
`` Do you wish to hang your father ? ''
and forgetful of my presence , carry on at him a long time together in the Gaelic , the young man answer nothing ; only the wife , at the name of hanging , throw her apron over her face and sob out loud than before .
* Mad .
This be all wretched for a stranger like myself to hear and see ; and I be right glad when Alan return , look like himself in his fine French clothes , though -LRB- to be sure -RRB- they be now grown almost too battered and wither to deserve the name of fine .
I be then take out in my turn by another of the son , and give that change of clothing of which I have stand so long in need , and a pair of Highland brogue make of deer-leather , rather strange at first , but after a little practice very easy to the foot .
By the time I come back Alan must have tell his story ; for it seem understood that I be to fly with him , and they be all busy upon our equipment .
They give u each a sword and pistol , though I profess my inability to use the former ; and with these , and some ammunition , a bag of oatmeal , an iron pan , and a bottle of right French brandy , we be ready for the heather .
Money , indeed , be lack .
I have about two guinea leave ; Alan 's belt have be despatch by another hand , that trusty messenger have no more than seventeen-pence to his whole fortune ; and a for James , it appear he have bring himself so low with journey to Edinburgh and legal expense on behalf of the tenant , that he could only scrape together three-and-five-pence-halfpenny , the most of it in copper .
`` This 'll no do , '' say Alan .
`` Ye must find a safe bit somewhere near by , '' say James , `` and get word sent to me .
Ye see , ye 'll have to get this business prettily off , Alan .
This be no time to be stay for a guinea or two .
They 're sure to get wind of ye , sure to seek ye , and by my way of it , sure to lay on ye the wyte of this day 's accident .
If it fall on you , it fall on me that be your near kinsman and harbour ye while ye be in the country .
And if it come on me -- '' he pause , and bite his finger , with a white face .
`` It would be a painful thing for our friend if I be to hang , '' say he .
`` It would be an ill day for Appin , '' say Alan .
`` It 's a day that stick in my throat , '' say James .
`` O man , man , man -- man Alan !
you and me have speak like two fool ! ''
he cry , strike his hand upon the wall so that the house rang again .
`` Well , and that 's true , too , '' say Alan ; `` and my friend from the Lowlands here '' -LRB- nodding at me -RRB- `` give me a good word upon that head , if I would only have listen to him . ''
`` But see here , '' say James , return to his former manner , `` if they lay me by the heel , Alan , it 's then that you 'll be need the money .
For with all that I have say and that you have say , it will look very black against the two of u ; do ye mark that ?
Well , follow me out , and ye 'll , I 'll see that I 'll have to get a paper out against ye mysel ' ; have to offer a reward for ye ; ay , will I !
It 's a sore thing to do between such near friend ; but if I get the dirdum * of this dreadful accident , I 'll have to fend for myself , man .
Do ye see that ? ''
* Blame .
He speak with a pleading earnestness , take Alan by the breast of the coat .
`` Ay '' say Alan , `` I see that . ''
`` And ye 'll have to be clear of the country , Alan -- ay , and clear of Scotland -- you and your friend from the Lowlands , too .
For I 'll have to paper your friend from the Lowlands .
Ye see that , Alan -- say that ye see that ! ''
I think Alan flush a bit .
`` This be unco hard on me that bring him here , James , '' say he , throw his head back .
`` It 's like make me a traitor ! ''
`` Now , Alan , man ! ''
cry James .
`` Look thing in the face !
He 'll be paper anyway ; Mungo Campbell 'll be sure to paper him ; what matter if I paper him too ?
And then , Alan , I be a man that have a family . ''
And then , after a little pause on both side , `` And , Alan , it 'll be a jury of Campbells , '' say he .
`` There 's one thing , '' say Alan , musingly , `` that naebody kens his name . ''
`` Nor yet they shallnae , Alan !
There 's my hand on that , '' cry James , for all the world a if he have really know my name and be forego some advantage .
`` But just the habit he be in , and what he look like , and his age , and the like ?
I couldnae well do less . ''
`` I wonder at your father 's son , '' cry Alan , sternly .
`` Would ye sell the lad with a gift ?
Would ye change his clothes and then betray him ? ''
`` No , no , Alan , '' say James .
`` No , no : the habit he take off -- the habit Mungo saw him in . ''
But I think he seem crestfallen ; indeed , he be clutch at every straw , and all the time , I dare say , saw the face of his hereditary foe on the bench , and in the jury-box , and the gallows in the background .
`` Well , sir , '' say Alan , turn to me , `` what say ye to that ?
Ye be here under the safeguard of my honour ; and it 's my part to see nothing do but what shall please you . ''
`` I have but one word to say , '' say I ; `` for to all this dispute I be a perfect stranger .
But the plain common-sense be to set the blame where it belong , and that be on the man who fire the shot .
Paper him , a ye call it , set the hunt on him ; and let honest , innocent folk show their face in safety . ''
But at this both Alan and James cry out in horror ; bid me hold my tongue , for that be not to be think of ; and ask me what the Camerons would think ?
-LRB- which confirm me , it must have be a Cameron from Mamore that do the act -RRB- and if I do not see that the lad might be catch ?
`` Ye havenae surely think of that ? ''
say they , with such innocent earnestness , that my hand drop at my side and I despair of argument .
`` Very well , then , '' say I , `` paper me , if you please , paper Alan , paper King George !
We 're all three innocent , and that seem to be what 's want .
But at least , sir , '' say I to James , recover from my little fit of annoyance , `` I be Alan 's friend , and if I can be helpful to friend of his , I will not stumble at the risk . ''
I think it best to put a fair face on my consent , for I saw Alan trouble ; and , besides -LRB- think I to myself -RRB- , as soon a my back be turn , they will paper me , a they call it , whether I consent or not .
But in this I saw I be wrong ; for I have no sooner say the word , than Mrs. Stewart leap out of her chair , come run over to u , and weep first upon my neck and then on Alan 's , bless God for our goodness to her family .
`` As for you , Alan , it be no more than your bounden duty , '' she say .
`` But for this lad that have come here and see u at our bad , and see the goodman fleeching like a suitor , him that by right should give his command like any king -- a for you , my lad , '' she say , `` my heart be wae not to have your name , but I have your face ; and as long a my heart beat under my bosom , I will keep it , and think of it , and bless it . ''
And with that she kiss me , and burst once more into such sobbing , that I stand abash .
`` Hoot , hoot , '' say Alan , look mighty silly .
`` The day come unco soon in this month of July ; and to-morrow there 'll be a fine to-do in Appin , a fine riding of dragoon , and cry of ` Cruachan ! '
* and running of red-coats ; and it behove you and me to the sooner be go . ''
* The rallying-word of the Campbells .
Thereupon we say farewell , and set out again , bend somewhat eastward , in a fine mild dark night , and over much the same broken country a before .
CHAPTER XX THE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER : THE ROCKS Sometimes we walk , sometimes run ; and a it draw on to morning , walk ever the less and run the more .
Though , upon it face , that country appear to be a desert , yet there be hut and house of the people , of which we must have pass more than twenty , hide in quiet place of the hill .
When we come to one of these , Alan would leave me in the way , and go himself and rap upon the side of the house and speak awhile at the window with some sleeper awaken .
This be to pass the news ; which , in that country , be so much of a duty that Alan must pause to attend to it even while flee for his life ; and so well attend to by others , that in more than half of the house where we call they have hear already of the murder .
In the others , as well a I could make out -LRB- stand back at a distance and hear a strange tongue -RRB- , the news be receive with more of consternation than surprise .
For all our hurry , day begin to come in while we be still far from any shelter .
It find u in a prodigious valley , strewn with rock and where run a foaming river .
Wild mountain stand around it ; there grow there neither grass nor tree ; and I have sometimes think since then , that it may have be the valley call Glencoe , where the massacre be in the time of King William .
But for the detail of our itinerary , I be all to seek ; our way lie now by short cut , now by great detour ; our pace be so hurry , our time of journey usually by night ; and the name of such place a I ask and hear be in the Gaelic tongue and the more easily forget .
The first peep of morning , then , show u this horrible place , and I could see Alan knit his brow .
`` This be no fit place for you and me , '' he say .
`` This be a place they 're bind to watch . ''
And with that he run hard than ever down to the water-side , in a part where the river be split in two among three rock .
It go through with a horrid thundering that make my belly quake ; and there hung over the lynn a little mist of spray .
Alan look neither to the right nor to the left , but jump clean upon the middle rock and fell there on his hand and knee to check himself , for that rock be small and he might have pitch over on the far side .
I have scarce time to measure the distance or to understand the peril before I have follow him , and he have catch and stop me .
So there we stand , side by side upon a small rock slippery with spray , a far broad leap in front of u , and the river din upon all side .
When I saw where I be , there come on me a deadly sickness of fear , and I put my hand over my eye .
Alan take me and shake me ; I saw he be speak , but the roaring of the fall and the trouble of my mind prevent me from hear ; only I saw his face be red with anger , and that he stamp upon the rock .
The same look show me the water raging by , and the mist hanging in the air : and with that I cover my eye again and shudder .
The next minute Alan have set the brandy bottle to my lip , and force me to drink about a gill , which send the blood into my head again .
Then , put his hand to his mouth , and his mouth to my ear , he shout , `` Hang or drown ! ''
and turn his back upon me , leap over the farther branch of the stream , and land safe .
I be now alone upon the rock , which give me the more room ; the brandy be sing in my ear ; I have this good example fresh before me , and just wit enough to see that if I do not leap at once , I should never leap at all .
I bend low on my knee and fling myself forth , with that kind of anger of despair that have sometimes stand me in stead of courage .
Sure enough , it be but my hand that reach the full length ; these slip , caught again , slip again ; and I be sliddering back into the lynn , when Alan seize me , first by the hair , then by the collar , and with a great strain drag me into safety .
Never a word he say , but set off run again for his life , and I must stagger to my foot and run after him .
I have be weary before , but now I be sick and bruise , and partly drunken with the brandy ; I keep stumble a I run , I have a stitch that come near to overmaster me ; and when at last Alan pause under a great rock that stand there among a number of others , it be none too soon for David Balfour .
A great rock I have say ; but by right it be two rock lean together at the top , both some twenty foot high , and at the first sight inaccessible .
Even Alan -LRB- though you may say he have as good a four hand -RRB- fail twice in an attempt to climb them ; and it be only at the third trial , and then by stand on my shoulder and leap up with such force a I think must have break my collar-bone , that he secure a lodgment .
Once there , he let down his leathern girdle ; and with the aid of that and a pair of shallow foothold in the rock , I scramble up beside him .
Then I saw why we have come there ; for the two rock , be both somewhat hollow on the top and slop one to the other , make a kind of dish or saucer , where as many a three or four men might have lie hidden .
All this while Alan have not say a word , and have run and climb with such a savage , silent frenzy of hurry , that I know that he be in mortal fear of some miscarriage .
Even now we be on the rock he say nothing , nor so much a relaxed the frowning look upon his face ; but clap flat down , and keep only one eye above the edge of our place of shelter scout all round the compass .
The dawn have come quite clear ; we could see the stony side of the valley , and it bottom , which be bestrew with rock , and the river , which go from one side to another , and make white fall ; but nowhere the smoke of a house , nor any living creature but some eagle scream round a cliff .
Then at last Alan smile .
`` Ay '' say he , `` now we have a chance ; '' and then look at me with some amusement , `` Ye 're no very gleg * at the jumping , '' say he .
* Brisk .
At this I suppose I colour with mortification , for he add at once , `` Hoots !
small blame to ye !
To be fear of a thing and yet to do it , be what make the pretty kind of a man .
And then there be water there , and water 's a thing that dauntons even me .
No , no , '' say Alan , `` it 's no you that 's to blame , it 's me . ''
I ask him why .
`` Why , '' say he , `` I have prove myself a gomeral this night .
For first of all I take a wrong road , and that in my own country of Appin ; so that the day have catch u where we should never have be ; and thanks to that , we lie here in some danger and mair discomfort .
And next -LRB- which be the bad of the two , for a man that have be so much among the heather a myself -RRB- I have come want a water-bottle , and here we lie for a long summer 's day with naething but neat spirit .
Ye may think that a small matter ; but before it come night , David , ye 'll give me news of it . ''
I be anxious to redeem my character , and offer , if he would pour out the brandy , to run down and fill the bottle at the river .
`` I wouldnae waste the good spirit either , '' say he .
`` It 's be a good friend to you this night ; or in my poor opinion , ye would still be cock on yon stone .
And what 's mair , '' say he , `` ye may have observe -LRB- you that 's a man of so much penetration -RRB- that Alan Breck Stewart be perhaps walk quick than his ordinar ' . ''
`` You ! ''
I cry , `` you be run fit to burst . ''
`` Was I so ? ''
say he .
`` Well , then , ye may depend upon it , there be nae time to be lose .
And now here be enough say ; gang you to your sleep , lad , and I 'll watch . ''
Accordingly , I lay down to sleep ; a little peaty earth have drift in between the top of the two rock , and some bracken grow there , to be a bed to me ; the last thing I hear be still the cry of the eagle .
I dare say it would be nine in the morning when I be roughly awaken , and find Alan 's hand press upon my mouth .
`` Wheesht ! ''
he whisper .
`` Ye be snore . ''
`` Well , '' say I , surprise at his anxious and dark face , `` and why not ? ''
He peer over the edge of the rock , and sign to me to do the like .
It be now high day , cloudless , and very hot .
The valley be as clear a in a picture .
About half a mile up the water be a camp of red-coats ; a big fire blaze in their midst , at which some be cooking ; and near by , on the top of a rock about as high a ours , there stand a sentry , with the sun sparkle on his arm .
All the way down along the river-side be post other sentry ; here near together , there widelier scatter ; some plant like the first , on place of command , some on the ground level and marching and counter-marching , so a to meet half-way .
Higher up the glen , where the ground be more open , the chain of post be continue by horse-soldiers , whom we could see in the distance rid to and fro .
Lower down , the infantry continue ; but a the stream be suddenly swell by the confluence of a considerable burn , they be more widely set , and only watch the ford and stepping-stones .
I take but one look at them , and duck again into my place .
It be strange indeed to see this valley , which have lie so solitary in the hour of dawn , bristle with arm and dot with the red coat and breech .
`` Ye see , '' say Alan , `` this be what I be afraid of , Davie : that they would watch the burn-side .
They begin to come in about two hour ago , and , man !
but ye 're a grand hand at the sleeping !
We 're in a narrow place .
If they get up the side of the hill , they could easy spy u with a glass ; but if they 'll only keep in the foot of the valley , we 'll do yet .
The post be thinner down the water ; and , come night , we 'll try our hand at get by them . ''
`` And what be we to do till night ? ''
I ask .
`` Lie here , '' say he , `` and birstle . ''
That one good Scotch word , `` birstle , '' be indeed the most of the story of the day that we have now to pas .
You be to remember that we lay on the bare top of a rock , like scone upon a girdle ; the sun beat upon u cruelly ; the rock grow so heated , a man could scarce endure the touch of it ; and the little patch of earth and fern , which keep cooler , be only large enough for one at a time .
We take turn about to lie on the naked rock , which be indeed like the position of that saint that be martyr on a gridiron ; and it run in my mind how strange it be , that in the same climate and at only a few day ' distance , I should have suffer so cruelly , first from cold upon my island and now from heat upon this rock .
All the while we have no water , only raw brandy for a drink , which be bad than nothing ; but we keep the bottle as cool a we could , bury it in the earth , and get some relief by bath our breast and temple .
The soldier keep stir all day in the bottom of the valley , now change guard , now in patrol party hunt among the rock .
These lay round in so great a number , that to look for men among them be like look for a needle in a bottle of hay ; and be so hopeless a task , it be go about with the less care .
Yet we could see the soldier pike their bayonet among the heather , which send a cold thrill into my vitals ; and they would sometimes hang about our rock , so that we scarce dare to breathe .
It be in this way that I first hear the right English speech ; one fellow a he go by actually clap his hand upon the sunny face of the rock on which we lay , and pluck it off again with an oath .
`` I tell you it 's ` ot , '' say he ; and I be amaze at the clipping tone and the odd sing-song in which he speak , and no less at that strange trick of drop out the letter `` h. '' To be sure , I have hear Ransome ; but he have take his way from all sort of people , and speak so imperfectly at the best , that I set down the most of it to childishness .
My surprise be all the great to hear that manner of speaking in the mouth of a grown man ; and indeed I have never grow use to it ; nor yet altogether with the English grammar , a perhaps a very critical eye might here and there spy out even in these memoir .
The tediousness and pain of these hour upon the rock grow only the great a the day go on ; the rock get still the hotter and the sun fiercer .
There be giddiness , and sickness , and sharp pang like rheumatism , to be support .
I mind then , and have often mind since , on the line in our Scotch psalm : -- `` The moon by night thee shall not smite , Nor yet the sun by day ; '' and indeed it be only by God 's blessing that we be neither of u sun-smitten .
At last , about two , it be beyond men 's bearing , and there be now temptation to resist , as well a pain to thole .
For the sun be now get a little into the west , there come a patch of shade on the east side of our rock , which be the side shelter from the soldier .
`` As well one death a another , '' say Alan , and slip over the edge and drop on the ground on the shadowy side .
I follow him at once , and instantly fell all my length , so weak be I and so giddy with that long exposure .
Here , then , we lay for an hour or two , ache from head to foot , as weak a water , and lie quite naked to the eye of any soldier who should have stroll that way .
None come , however , all passing by on the other side ; so that our rock continue to be our shield even in this new position .
Presently we begin again to get a little strength ; and a the soldier be now lie closer along the river-side , Alan propose that we should try a start .
I be by this time afraid of but one thing in the world ; and that be to be set back upon the rock ; anything else be welcome to me ; so we get ourselves at once in march order , and begin to slip from rock to rock one after the other , now crawl flat on our belly in the shade , now make a run for it , heart in mouth .
The soldier , have search this side of the valley after a fashion , and be perhaps somewhat sleepy with the sultriness of the afternoon , have now lay by much of their vigilance , and stand doze at their post or only keep a look-out along the bank of the river ; so that in this way , keep down the valley and at the same time towards the mountain , we draw steadily away from their neighbourhood .
But the business be the most wearing I have ever take part in .
A man have need of a hundred eye in every part of him , to keep conceal in that uneven country and within cry of so many and scattered sentry .
When we must pass an open place , quickness be not all , but a swift judgment not only of the lie of the whole country , but of the solidity of every stone on which we must set foot ; for the afternoon be now fall so breathless that the rolling of a pebble sounded abroad like a pistol shot , and would start the echo call among the hill and cliff .
By sundown we have make some distance , even by our slow rate of progress , though to be sure the sentry on the rock be still plainly in our view .
But now we come on something that put all fear out of season ; and that be a deep rushing burn , that tear down , in that part , to join the glen river .
At the sight of this we cast ourselves on the ground and plunge head and shoulder in the water ; and I can not tell which be the more pleasant , the great shock a the cool stream go over u , or the greed with which we drink of it .
We lay there -LRB- for the bank hide u -RRB- , drank again and again , bath our chest , let our wrist trail in the running water till they ache with the chill ; and at last , be wonderfully renew , we get out the meal-bag and make drammach in the iron pan .
This , though it be but cold water mingle with oatmeal , yet make a good enough dish for a hungry man ; and where there be no mean of make fire , or -LRB- a in our case -RRB- good reason for not make one , it be the chief stand-by of those who have take to the heather .
As soon a the shadow of the night have fall , we set forth again , at first with the same caution , but presently with more boldness , stand our full height and step out at a good pace of walking .
The way be very intricate , lie up the steep side of mountain and along the brow of cliff ; cloud have come in with the sunset , and the night be dark and cool ; so that I walk without much fatigue , but in continual fear of fall and roll down the mountain , and with no guess at our direction .
The moon rise at last and find u still on the road ; it be in it last quarter , and be long beset with cloud ; but after awhile shone out and show me many dark head of mountain , and be reflect far underneath u on the narrow arm of a sea-loch .
At this sight we both pause : I strike with wonder to find myself so high and walk -LRB- a it seem to me -RRB- upon cloud ; Alan to make sure of his direction .
Seemingly he be well pleased , and he must certainly have judge u out of ear-shot of all our enemy ; for throughout the rest of our night-march he beguile the way with whistling of many tune , warlike , merry , plaintive ; reel tune that make the foot go faster ; tune of my own south country that make me fain to be home from my adventure ; and all these , on the great , dark , desert mountain , make company upon the way .
CHAPTER XXI THE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER : THE HEUGH OF CORRYNAKIEGH Early a day come in the beginning of July , it be still dark when we reach our destination , a cleft in the head of a great mountain , with a water run through the midst , and upon the one hand a shallow cave in a rock .
Birches grow there in a thin , pretty wood , which a little farther on be change into a wood of pine .
The burn be full of trout ; the wood of cushat-doves ; on the open side of the mountain beyond , whaups would be always whistle , and cuckoo be plentiful .
From the mouth of the cleft we look down upon a part of Mamore , and on the sea-loch that divide that country from Appin ; and this from so great a height a make it my continual wonder and pleasure to sit and behold them .
The name of the cleft be the Heugh of Corrynakiegh ; and although from it height and be so near upon the sea , it be often beset with cloud , yet it be on the whole a pleasant place , and the five day we live in it go happily .
We sleep in the cave , make our bed of heather bush which we cut for that purpose , and cover ourselves with Alan 's great-coat .
There be a low concealed place , in a turning of the glen , where we be so bold a to make fire : so that we could warm ourselves when the cloud set in , and cook hot porridge , and grill the little trout that we catch with our hand under the stone and overhang bank of the burn .
This be indeed our chief pleasure and business ; and not only to save our meal against bad time , but with a rivalry that much amuse u , we spend a great part of our day at the water-side , strip to the waist and grope about or -LRB- a they say -RRB- guddling for these fish .
The large we get might have be a quarter of a pound ; but they be of good flesh and flavour , and when broil upon the coal , lack only a little salt to be delicious .
In any by-time Alan must teach me to use my sword , for my ignorance have much distress him ; and I think besides , a I have sometimes the upper-hand of him in the fishing , he be not sorry to turn to an exercise where he have so much the upper-hand of me .
He make it somewhat more of a pain than need have be , for he storm at me all through the lesson in a very violent manner of scolding , and would push me so close that I make sure he must run me through the body .
I be often tempt to turn tail , but hold my ground for all that , and get some profit of my lesson ; if it be but to stand on guard with an assured countenance , which be often all that be require .
So , though I could never in the least please my master , I be not altogether displease with myself .
In the meanwhile , you be not to suppose that we neglect our chief business , which be to get away .
`` It will be many a long day , '' Alan say to me on our first morning , `` before the red-coats think upon seek Corrynakiegh ; so now we must get word send to James , and he must find the siller for u . ''
`` And how shall we send that word ? ''
say I . `` We be here in a desert place , which yet we dare not leave ; and unless ye get the fowl of the air to be your messenger , I see not what we shall be able to do . ''
`` Ay ? ''
say Alan .
`` Ye 're a man of small contrivance , David . ''
Thereupon he fell in a muse , look in the ember of the fire ; and presently , get a piece of wood , he fashion it in a cross , the four end of which he blacken on the coal .
Then he look at me a little shyly .
`` Could ye lend me my button ? ''
say he .
`` It seem a strange thing to ask a gift again , but I own I be laith to cut another . ''
I give him the button ; whereupon he string it on a strip of his great-coat which he have use to bind the cross ; and tie in a little sprig of birch and another of fir , he look upon his work with satisfaction .
`` Now , '' say he , `` there be a little clachan '' -LRB- what be call a hamlet in the English -RRB- `` not very far from Corrynakiegh , and it have the name of Koalisnacoan .
There there be live many friend of mine whom I could trust with my life , and some that I be no just so sure of .
Ye see , David , there will be money set upon our head ; James himsel ' be to set money on them ; and a for the Campbells , they would never spare siller where there be a Stewart to be hurt .
If it be otherwise , I would go down to Koalisnacoan whatever , and trust my life into these people 's hand as lightly a I would trust another with my glove . ''
`` But be so ? ''
say I . `` Being so , '' say he , `` I would as lief they didnae see me .
There 's bad folk everywhere , and what 's far bad , weak one .
So when it come dark again , I will steal down into that clachan , and set this that I have be make in the window of a good friend of mine , John Breck Maccoll , a bouman * of Appin 's . ''
* A bouman be a tenant who take stock from the landlord and share with him the increase .
`` With all my heart , '' say I ; `` and if he find it , what be he to think ? ''
`` Well , '' say Alan , `` I wish he be a man of more penetration , for by my troth I be afraid he will make little enough of it !
But this be what I have in my mind .
This cross be something in the nature of the crosstarrie , or fiery cross , which be the signal of gathering in our clan ; yet he will know well enough the clan be not to rise , for there it be stand in his window , and no word with it .
So he will say to himsel ' , THE CLAN IS NOT TO RISE , BUT THERE IS SOMETHING .
Then he will see my button , and that be Duncan Stewart 's .
And then he will say to himsel ' , THE SON OF DUNCAN IS IN THE HEATHER , AND HAS NEED OF ME . ''
`` Well , '' say I , `` it may be .
But even suppose so , there be a good deal of heather between here and the Forth . ''
`` And that be a very true word , '' say Alan .
`` But then John Breck will see the sprig of birch and the sprig of pine ; and he will say to himsel ' -LRB- if he be a man of any penetration at all , which I misdoubt -RRB- , ALAN WILL BE LYING IN A WOOD WHICH IS BOTH OF PINES AND BIRCHES .
Then he will think to himsel ' , THAT IS NOT SO VERY RIFE HEREABOUT ; and then he will come and give u a look up in Corrynakiegh .
And if he do not , David , the devil may fly away with him , for what I care ; for he will no be worth the salt to his porridge . ''
`` Eh , man , '' say I , drolling with him a little , `` you 're very ingenious !
But would it not be simple for you to write him a few word in black and white ? ''
`` And that be an excellent observe , Mr. Balfour of Shaws , '' say Alan , drolling with me ; `` and it would certainly be much simpler for me to write to him , but it would be a sore job for John Breck to read it .
He would have to go to the school for two-three year ; and it 's possible we might be weary wait on him . ''
So that night Alan carry down his fiery cross and set it in the bouman 's window .
He be trouble when he come back ; for the dog have bark and the folk run out from their house ; and he think he have hear a clatter of arm and see a red-coat come to one of the door .
On all account we lay the next day in the border of the wood and keep a close look-out , so that if it be John Breck that come we might be ready to guide him , and if it be the red-coats we should have time to get away .
About noon a man be to be spy , straggle up the open side of the mountain in the sun , and look round him a he come , from under his hand .
No sooner have Alan see him than he whistle ; the man turn and come a little towards u : then Alan would give another `` peep ! ''
and the man would come still nearer ; and so by the sound of whistling , he be guide to the spot where we lay .
He be a ragged , wild , beard man , about forty , grossly disfigure with the small pox , and look both dull and savage .
Although his English be very bad and broken , yet Alan -LRB- accord to his very handsome use , whenever I be by -RRB- would suffer him to speak no Gaelic .
Perhaps the strange language make him appear more backward than he really be ; but I think he have little good-will to serve u , and what he have be the child of terror .
Alan would have have him carry a message to James ; but the bouman would hear of no message .
`` She be forget it , '' he say in his screaming voice ; and would either have a letter or wash his hand of u .
I think Alan would be gravel at that , for we lack the mean of write in that desert .
But he be a man of more resource than I know ; search the wood until he find the quill of a cushat-dove , which he shape into a pen ; make himself a kind of ink with gunpowder from his horn and water from the run stream ; and tear a corner from his French military commission -LRB- which he carry in his pocket , like a talisman to keep him from the gallows -RRB- , he sit down and write a follow : `` DEAR KINSMAN , -- Please send the money by the bearer to the place he kens of .
`` Your affectionate cousin , `` A. S. '' This he intrust to the bouman , who promise to make what manner of speed he best could , and carry it off with him down the hill .
He be three full day go , but about five in the evening of the third , we hear a whistling in the wood , which Alan answer ; and presently the bouman come up the water-side , look for u , right and leave .
He seem less sulky than before , and indeed he be no doubt well pleased to have get to the end of such a dangerous commission .
He give u the news of the country ; that it be alive with red-coats ; that arm be be find , and poor folk bring in trouble daily ; and that James and some of his servant be already clap in prison at Fort William , under strong suspicion of complicity .
It seem it be noise on all side that Alan Breck have fire the shot ; and there be a bill issue for both him and me , with one hundred pound reward .
This be all as bad a could be ; and the little note the bouman have carry u from Mrs. Stewart be of a miserable sadness .
In it she beseech Alan not to let himself be capture , assure him , if he fell in the hand of the troop , both he and James be no good than dead men .
The money she have send be all that she could beg or borrow , and she pray heaven we could be do with it .
Lastly , she say , she enclose u one of the bill in which we be describe .
This we look upon with great curiosity and not a little fear , partly a a man may look in a mirror , partly a he might look into the barrel of an enemy 's gun to judge if it be truly aim .
Alan be advertise a `` a small , pock-marked , active man of thirty-five or thereby , dress in a feathered hat , a French side-coat of blue with silver button , and lace a great deal tarnish , a red waistcoat and breech of black , shag ; '' and I a `` a tall strong lad of about eighteen , wear an old blue coat , very ragged , an old Highland bonnet , a long homespun waistcoat , blue breech ; his leg bare , low-country shoe , want the toe ; speaks like a Lowlander , and have no beard . ''
Alan be well enough pleased to see his finery so fully remembered and set down ; only when he come to the word tarnish , he look upon his lace like one a little mortified .
As for myself , I think I cut a miserable figure in the bill ; and yet be well enough pleased too , for since I have change these rag , the description have cease to be a danger and become a source of safety .
`` Alan , '' say I , `` you should change your clothes . ''
`` Na , troth ! ''
say Alan , `` I have nae others .
A fine sight I would be , if I go back to France in a bonnet ! ''
This put a second reflection in my mind : that if I be to separate from Alan and his tell-tale clothes I should be safe against arrest , and might go openly about my business .
Nor be this all ; for suppose I be arrest when I be alone , there be little against me ; but suppose I be take in company with the reputed murderer , my case would begin to be grave .
For generosity 's sake I dare not speak my mind upon this head ; but I think of it none the le .
I think of it all the more , too , when the bouman bring out a green purse with four guinea in gold , and the best part of another in small change .
True , it be more than I have .
But then Alan , with less than five guinea , have to get as far a France ; I , with my less than two , not beyond Queensferry ; so that take thing in their proportion , Alan 's society be not only a peril to my life , but a burden on my purse .
But there be no thought of the sort in the honest head of my companion .
He believe he be serve , help , and protect me .
And what could I do but hold my peace , and chafe , and take my chance of it ?
`` It 's little enough , '' say Alan , put the purse in his pocket , `` but it 'll do my business .
And now , John Breck , if ye will hand me over my button , this gentleman and me will be for take the road . ''
But the bouman , after feel about in a hairy purse that hung in front of him in the Highland manner -LRB- though he wear otherwise the Lowland habit , with sea-trousers -RRB- , begin to roll his eye strangely , and at last say , `` Her nainsel will loss it , '' mean he think he have lose it .
`` What ! ''
cry Alan , `` you will lose my button , that be my father 's before me ?
Now I will tell you what be in my mind , John Breck : it be in my mind this be the bad day 's work that ever ye do since ye be bear . ''
And a Alan speak , he set his hand on his knee and look at the bouman with a smile mouth , and that dance light in his eye that mean mischief to his enemy .
Perhaps the bouman be honest enough ; perhaps he have mean to cheat and then , find himself alone with two of u in a desert place , cast back to honesty a be safer ; at least , and all at once , he seem to find that button and hand it to Alan .
`` Well , and it be a good thing for the honour of the Maccolls , '' say Alan , and then to me , `` Here be my button back again , and I thank you for part with it , which be of a piece with all your friendship to me . ''
Then he take the warm parting of the bouman .
`` For , '' say he , `` ye have do very well by me , and set your neck at a venture , and I will always give you the name of a good man . ''
Lastly , the bouman take himself off by one way ; and Alan and I -LRB- get our chattel together -RRB- struck into another to resume our flight .
CHAPTER XXII THE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER : THE MOOR Some seven hour ' incessant , hard travel bring u early in the morning to the end of a range of mountain .
In front of u there lay a piece of low , broken , desert land , which we must now cross .
The sun be not long up , and shone straight in our eye ; a little , thin mist go up from the face of the moorland like a smoke ; so that -LRB- a Alan say -RRB- there might have be twenty squadron of dragoon there and we none the wiser .
We sit down , therefore , in a howe of the hill-side till the mist should have rise , and make ourselves a dish of drammach , and hold a council of war .
`` David , '' say Alan , `` this be the kittle bit .
Shall we lie here till it come night , or shall we risk it , and stave on ahead ? ''
`` Well , '' say I , `` I be tired indeed , but I could walk a far again , if that be all . ''
`` Ay , but it isnae , '' say Alan , `` nor yet the half .
This be how we stand : Appin 's fair death to u .
To the south it 's all Campbells , and no to be think of .
To the north ; well , there 's no muckle to be gain by go north ; neither for you , that want to get to Queensferry , nor yet for me , that want to get to France .
Well , then , we 'll can strike east . ''
`` East be it ! ''
say I , quite cheerily ; but I be think in to myself : `` O , man , if you would only take one point of the compass and let me take any other , it would be the best for both of u . ''
`` Well , then , east , ye see , we have the muir , '' say Alan .
`` Once there , David , it 's mere pitch-and-toss .
Out on yon bald , naked , flat place , where can a body turn to ?
Let the red-coats come over a hill , they can spy you mile away ; and the sorrow 's in their horse ' heel , they would soon ride you down .
It 's no good place , David ; and I 'm free to say , it 's bad by daylight than by dark . ''
`` Alan , '' say I , `` hear my way of it .
Appin 's death for u ; we have none too much money , nor yet meal ; the longer they seek , the nearer they may guess where we be ; it 's all a risk ; and I give my word to go ahead until we drop . ''
Alan be delight .
`` There be while , '' say he , `` when ye be altogether too canny and Whiggish to be company for a gentleman like me ; but there come other while when ye show yoursel ' a mettle spark ; and it 's then , David , that I love ye like a brother . ''
The mist rise and die away , and show u that country lie as waste a the sea ; only the moorfowl and the pewee cry upon it , and far over to the east , a herd of deer , move like dot .
Much of it be red with heather ; much of the rest break up with bog and hag and peaty pool ; some have be burnt black in a heath fire ; and in another place there be quite a forest of dead fir , stand like skeleton .
A wearier-looking desert man never saw ; but at least it be clear of troop , which be our point .
We go down accordingly into the waste , and begin to make our toilsome and devious travel towards the eastern verge .
There be the top of mountain all round -LRB- you be to remember -RRB- from whence we might be spy at any moment ; so it behove u to keep in the hollow part of the moor , and when these turn aside from our direction to move upon it naked face with infinite care .
Sometimes , for half an hour together , we must crawl from one heather bush to another , a hunter do when they be hard upon the deer .
It be a clear day again , with a blazing sun ; the water in the brandy bottle be soon go ; and altogether , if I have guess what it would be to crawl half the time upon my belly and to walk much of the rest stoop nearly to the knee , I should certainly have hold back from such a kill enterprise .
Toiling and rest and toil again , we wear away the morning ; and about noon lay down in a thick bush of heather to sleep .
Alan take the first watch ; and it seem to me I have scarce close my eye before I be shake up to take the second .
We have no clock to go by ; and Alan stick a sprig of heath in the ground to serve instead ; so that as soon a the shadow of the bush should fall so far to the east , I might know to rouse him .
But I be by this time so weary that I could have sleep twelve hour at a stretch ; I have the taste of sleep in my throat ; my joint sleep even when my mind be wake ; the hot smell of the heather , and the drone of the wild bee , be like posset to me ; and every now and again I would give a jump and find I have be doze .
The last time I wake I seem to come back from farther away , and think the sun have take a great start in the heaven .
I look at the sprig of heath , and at that I could have cry aloud : for I saw I have betray my trust .
My head be nearly turn with fear and shame ; and at what I saw , when I look out around me on the moor , my heart be like die in my body .
For sure enough , a body of horse-soldiers have come down during my sleep , and be draw near to u from the south-east , spread out in the shape of a fan and rid their horse to and fro in the deep part of the heather .
When I wake Alan , he glance first at the soldier , then at the mark and the position of the sun , and knit his brow with a sudden , quick look , both ugly and anxious , which be all the reproach I have of him .
`` What be we to do now ? ''
I ask .
`` We 'll have to play at be hare , '' say he .
`` Do ye see yon mountain ? ''
point to one on the north-eastern sky .
`` Ay , '' say I . `` Well , then , '' say he , `` let u strike for that .
Its name be Ben Alder .
it be a wild , desert mountain full of hill and hollow , and if we can win to it before the morn , we may do yet . ''
`` But , Alan , '' cry I , `` that will take u across the very coming of the soldier ! ''
`` I ken that fine , '' say he ; `` but if we be drive back on Appin , we be two dead men .
So now , David man , be brisk ! ''
With that he begin to run forward on his hand and knee with an incredible quickness , a though it be his natural way of go .
All the time , too , he keep wind in and out in the low part of the moorland where we be the best concealed .
Some of these have be burn or at least scathed with fire ; and there rise in our face -LRB- which be close to the ground -RRB- a blinding , choke dust as fine a smoke .
The water be long out ; and this posture of run on the hand and knee bring an overmaster weakness and weariness , so that the joint ache and the wrist faint under your weight .
Now and then , indeed , where be a big bush of heather , we lay awhile , and pant , and put aside the leaf , look back at the dragoon .
They have not spy u , for they hold straight on ; a half-troop , I think , cover about two mile of ground , and beat it mighty thoroughly a they go .
I have awaken just in time ; a little later , and we must have flee in front of them , instead of escape on one side .
Even a it be , the least misfortune might betray u ; and now and again , when a grouse rise out of the heather with a clap of wing , we lay as still a the dead and be afraid to breathe .
The aching and faintness of my body , the labouring of my heart , the soreness of my hand , and the smarting of my throat and eye in the continual smoke of dust and ash , have soon grow to be so unbearable that I would gladly have give up .
Nothing but the fear of Alan lent me enough of a false kind of courage to continue .
As for himself -LRB- and you be to bear in mind that he be cumber with a great-coat -RRB- he have first turn crimson , but a time go on the redness begin to be mingle with patch of white ; his breath cry and whistle a it come ; and his voice , when he whisper his observation in my ear during our halt , sound like nothing human .
Yet he seem in no way dash in spirit , nor do he at all abate in his activity , so that I be drive to marvel at the man 's endurance .
At length , in the first gloaming of the night , we hear a trumpet sound , and look back from among the heather , saw the troop begin to collect .
A little after , they have build a fire and camp for the night , about the middle of the waste .
At this I beg and beseech that we might lie down and sleep .
`` There shall be no sleep the night ! ''
say Alan .
`` From now on , these weary dragoon of yours will keep the crown of the muirland , and none will get out of Appin but wing fowl .
We get through in the nick of time , and shall we jeopard what we 've gain ?
Na , na , when the day come , it shall find you and me in a fast place on Ben Alder . ''
`` Alan , '' I say , `` it 's not the want of will : it 's the strength that I want .
If I could , I would ; but as sure a I 'm alive I can not . ''
`` Very well , then , '' say Alan .
`` I 'll carry ye . ''
I look to see if he be jest ; but no , the little man be in dead earnest ; and the sight of so much resolution sham me .
`` Lead away ! ''
say I . `` I 'll follow . ''
He give me one look as much a to say , `` Well do , David ! ''
and off he set again at his top speed .
It grow cooler and even a little darker -LRB- but not much -RRB- with the come of the night .
The sky be cloudless ; it be still early in July , and pretty far north ; in the dark part of that night , you would have need pretty good eye to read , but for all that , I have often see it darker in a winter mid-day .
Heavy dew fell and drench the moor like rain ; and this refresh me for a while .
When we stop to breathe , and I have time to see all about me , the clearness and sweetness of the night , the shape of the hill like thing asleep , and the fire dwindle away behind u , like a bright spot in the midst of the moor , anger would come upon me in a clap that I must still drag myself in agony and eat the dust like a worm .
By what I have read in book , I think few that have hold a pen be ever really wearied , or they would write of it more strongly .
I have no care of my life , neither past nor future , and I scarce remember there be such a lad a David Balfour .
I do not think of myself , but just of each fresh step which I be sure would be my last , with despair -- and of Alan , who be the cause of it , with hatred .
Alan be in the right trade a a soldier ; this be the officer 's part to make men continue to do thing , they know not wherefore , and when , if the choice be offer , they would lie down where they be and be kill .
And I dare say I would have make a good enough private ; for in these last hour it never occur to me that I have any choice but just to obey as long a I be able , and die obeying .
Day begin to come in , after year , I think ; and by that time we be past the great danger , and could walk upon our foot like men , instead of crawl like brute .
But , dear heart have mercy !
what a pair we must have make , go double like old grandfather , stumble like babe , and as white a dead folk .
Never a word pass between u ; each set his mouth and keep his eye in front of him , and lift up his foot and set it down again , like people lift weight at a country play ; * all the while , with the moorfowl cry `` peep ! ''
in the heather , and the light come slowly clearer in the east .
* Village fair .
I say Alan do a I do .
Not that ever I look at him , for I have enough ado to keep my foot ; but because it be plain he must have be a stupid with weariness a myself , and look a little where we be go , or we should not have walk into an ambush like blind men .
It fell in this way .
We be go down a heathery brae , Alan lead and I follow a pace or two behind , like a fiddler and his wife ; when upon a sudden the heather give a rustle , three or four rag men leap out , and the next moment we be lie on our back , each with a dirk at his throat .
I do n't think I care ; the pain of this rough handling be quite swallow up by the pain of which I be already full ; and I be too glad to have stop walk to mind about a dirk .
I lay look up in the face of the man that hold me ; and I mind his face be black with the sun , and his eye very light , but I be not afraid of him .
I hear Alan and another whispering in the Gaelic ; and what they say be all one to me .
Then the dirk be put up , our weapon be take away , and we be set face to face , sit in the heather .
`` They be Cluny 's men , '' say Alan .
`` We couldnae have fall well .
We 're just to bide here with these , which be his out-sentries , till they can get word to the chief of my arrival . ''
Now Cluny Macpherson , the chief of the clan Vourich , have be one of the leader of the great rebellion six year before ; there be a price on his life ; and I have suppose him long ago in France , with the rest of the head of that desperate party .
Even tire a I be , the surprise of what I hear half waken me .
`` What , '' I cry , `` be Cluny still here ? ''
`` Ay , be he so ! ''
say Alan .
`` Still in his own country and keep by his own clan .
King George can do no more . ''
I think I would have ask far , but Alan give me the put-off .
`` I be rather wearied , '' he say , `` and I would like fine to get a sleep . ''
And without more word , he roll on his face in a deep heather bush , and seem to sleep at once .
There be no such thing possible for me .
You have hear grasshopper whir in the grass in the summer time ?
Well , I have no sooner close my eye , than my body , and above all my head , belly , and wrist , seem to be fill with whir grasshopper ; and I must open my eye again at once , and tumble and toss , and sit up and lie down ; and look at the sky which dazzle me , or at Cluny 's wild and dirty sentry , peer out over the top of the brae and chatter to each other in the Gaelic .
That be all the rest I have , until the messenger return ; when , a it appear that Cluny would be glad to receive u , we must get once more upon our foot and set forward .
Alan be in excellent good spirit , much refresh by his sleep , very hungry , and look pleasantly forward to a dram and a dish of hot collops , of which , it seem , the messenger have bring him word .
For my part , it make me sick to hear of eating .
I have be dead-heavy before , and now I felt a kind of dreadful lightness , which would not suffer me to walk .
I drift like a gossamer ; the ground seem to me a cloud , the hill a feather-weight , the air to have a current , like a run burn , which carry me to and fro .
With all that , a sort of horror of despair sit on my mind , so that I could have weep at my own helplessness .
I saw Alan knit his brow at me , and suppose it be in anger ; and that give me a pang of light-headed fear , like what a child may have .
I remember , too , that I be smile , and could not stop smiling , hard a I try ; for I think it be out of place at such a time .
But my good companion have nothing in his mind but kindness ; and the next moment , two of the gillie have me by the arm , and I begin to be carry forward with great swiftness -LRB- or so it appear to me , although I dare say it be slowly enough in truth -RRB- , through a labyrinth of dreary glen and hollow and into the heart of that dismal mountain of Ben Alder .
CHAPTER XXIII CLUNY 'S CAGE We come at last to the foot of an exceed steep wood , which scramble up a craggy hillside , and be crown by a naked precipice .
`` It 's here , '' say one of the guide , and we strike up hill .
The tree cling upon the slope , like sailor on the shroud of a ship , and their trunk be like the round of a ladder , by which we mount .
Quite at the top , and just before the rocky face of the cliff sprang above the foliage , we find that strange house which be know in the country a `` Cluny 's Cage . ''
The trunk of several tree have be wattle across , the interval strengthen with stake , and the ground behind this barricade level up with earth to make the floor .
A tree , which grow out from the hillside , be the living centre-beam of the roof .
The wall be of wattle and cover with moss .
The whole house have something of an egg shape ; and it half hung , half stand in that steep , hillside thicket , like a wasp 's nest in a green hawthorn .
Within , it be large enough to shelter five or six person with some comfort .
A projection of the cliff have be cunningly employ to be the fireplace ; and the smoke rise against the face of the rock , and be not dissimilar in colour , readily escape notice from below .
This be but one of Cluny 's hiding-places ; he have cave , besides , and underground chamber in several part of his country ; and follow the report of his scout , he move from one to another a the soldier draw near or move away .
By this manner of living , and thanks to the affection of his clan , he have not only stay all this time in safety , while so many others have flee or be take and slain : but stay four or five year longer , and only go to France at last by the express command of his master .
There he soon die ; and it be strange to reflect that he may have regret his Cage upon Ben Alder .
When we come to the door he be seat by his rock chimney , watch a gillie about some cookery .
He be mighty plainly habit , with a knit nightcap drawn over his ear , and smoke a foul cutty pipe .
For all that he have the manner of a king , and it be quite a sight to see him rise out of his place to welcome u .
`` Well , Mr. Stewart , come awa ' , sir ! ''
say he , `` and bring in your friend that a yet I dinna ken the name of . ''
`` And how be yourself , Cluny ? ''
say Alan .
`` I hope ye do brawly , sir .
And I be proud to see ye , and to present to ye my friend the Laird of Shaws , Mr. David Balfour . ''
Alan never refer to my estate without a touch of a sneer , when we be alone ; but with stranger , he ring the word out like a herald .
`` Step in by , the both of ye , gentleman , '' say Cluny .
`` I make ye welcome to my house , which be a queer , rude place for certain , but one where I have entertain a royal personage , Mr. Stewart -- ye doubtless ken the personage I have in my eye .
We 'll take a dram for luck , and as soon a this handle man of mine have the collops ready , we 'll dine and take a hand at the carte a gentleman should .
My life be a bit driegh , '' say he , pour out the brandy ; `` I see little company , and sit and twirl my thumb , and mind upon a great day that be go by , and weary for another great day that we all hope will be upon the road .
And so here 's a toast to ye : The Restoration ! ''
Thereupon we all touch glass and drank .
I be sure I wish no ill to King George ; and if he have be there himself in proper person , it 's like he would have do a I do .
No sooner have I take out the drain than I felt hugely well , and could look on and listen , still a little mistily perhaps , but no longer with the same groundless horror and distress of mind .
It be certainly a strange place , and we have a strange host .
In his long hiding , Cluny have grow to have all manner of precise habit , like those of an old maid .
He have a particular place , where no one else must sit ; the Cage be arrange in a particular way , which none must disturb ; cookery be one of his chief fancy , and even while he be greet u in , he keep an eye to the collops .
It appear , he sometimes visit or receive visit from his wife and one or two of his near friend , under the cover of night ; but for the more part live quite alone , and communicate only with his sentinel and the gillie that wait on him in the Cage .
The first thing in the morning , one of them , who be a barber , come and shave him , and give him the news of the country , of which he be immoderately greedy .
There be no end to his question ; he put them as earnestly a a child ; and at some of the answer , laugh out of all bound of reason , and would break out again laugh at the mere memory , hour after the barber be go .
To be sure , there might have be a purpose in his question ; for though he be thus sequester , and like the other landed gentleman of Scotland , strip by the late Act of Parliament of legal power , he still exercise a patriarchal justice in his clan .
Disputes be bring to him in his hiding-hole to be decide ; and the men of his country , who would have snap their finger at the Court of Session , lay aside revenge and pay down money at the bare word of this forfeit and hunt outlaw .
When he be anger , which be often enough , he give his command and breathe threat of punishment like any king ; and his gillie tremble and crouch away from him like child before a hasty father .
With each of them , a he enter , he ceremoniously shake hand , both party touch their bonnet at the same time in a military manner .
Altogether , I have a fair chance to see some of the inner working of a Highland clan ; and this with a proscribed , fugitive chief ; his country conquer ; the troop rid upon all side in quest of him , sometimes within a mile of where he lay ; and when the least of the ragged fellow whom he rat and threaten , could have make a fortune by betray him .
On that first day , as soon a the collops be ready , Cluny give them with his own hand a squeeze of a lemon -LRB- for he be well supply with luxury -RRB- and bid u draw in to our meal .
`` They , '' say he , mean the collops , `` be such a I give his Royal Highness in this very house ; bat the lemon juice , for at that time we be glad to get the meat and never fashed for kitchen .
* Indeed , there be mair dragoon than lemon in my country in the year forty-six . ''
* Condiment .
I do not know if the collops be truly very good , but my heart rise against the sight of them , and I could eat but little .
All the while Cluny entertain u with story of Prince Charlie 's stay in the Cage , give u the very word of the speaker , and rise from his place to show u where they stand .
By these , I gather the Prince be a gracious , spirited boy , like the son of a race of polite king , but not so wise a Solomon .
I gather , too , that while he be in the Cage , he be often drunk ; so the fault that have since , by all account , make such a wreck of him , have even then begin to show itself .
We be no sooner do eat than Cluny bring out an old , thumb , greasy pack of card , such a you may find in a mean inn ; and his eye brighten in his face a he propose that we should fall to play .
Now this be one of the thing I have be bring up to eschew like disgrace ; it be hold by my father neither the part of a Christian nor yet of a gentleman to set his own livelihood and fish for that of others , on the cast of paint pasteboard .
To be sure , I might have plead my fatigue , which be excuse enough ; but I think it behove that I should bear a testimony .
I must have get very red in the face , but I speak steadily , and tell them I have no call to be a judge of others , but for my own part , it be a matter in which I have no clearness .
Cluny stop mingle the card .
`` What in deil 's name be this ? ''
say he .
`` What kind of Whiggish , cant talk be this , for the house of Cluny Macpherson ? ''
`` I will put my hand in the fire for Mr. Balfour , '' say Alan .
`` He be an honest and a mettle gentleman , and I would have ye bear in mind who say it .
I bear a king 's name , '' say he , cock his hat ; `` and I and any that I call friend be company for the best .
But the gentleman be tire , and should sleep ; if he have no mind to the carte , it will never hinder you and me .
And I 'm fit and willing , sir , to play ye any game that ye can name . ''
`` Sir , '' say Cluny , `` in this poor house of mine I would have you to ken that any gentleman may follow his pleasure .
If your friend would like to stand on his head , he be welcome .
And if either he , or you , or any other man , be not preceesely satisfied , I will be proud to step outside with him . ''
I have no will that these two friend should cut their throat for my sake .
`` Sir , '' say I , `` I be very wearied , a Alan say ; and what 's more , a you be a man that likely have son of your own , I may tell you it be a promise to my father . ''
`` Say nae mair , say nae mair , '' say Cluny , and point me to a bed of heather in a corner of the Cage .
For all that he be displeased enough , look at me askance , and grumble when he look .
And indeed it must be own that both my scruple and the word in which I declare them , smack somewhat of the Covenanter , and be little in their place among wild Highland Jacobites .
What with the brandy and the venison , a strange heaviness have come over me ; and I have scarce lain down upon the bed before I fell into a kind of trance , in which I continue almost the whole time of our stay in the Cage .
Sometimes I be broad awake and understand what pass ; sometimes I only hear voice , or men snore , like the voice of a silly river ; and the plaid upon the wall dwindle down and swell out again , like firelight shadow on the roof .
I must sometimes have speak or cry out , for I remember I be now and then amaze at be answer ; yet I be conscious of no particular nightmare , only of a general , black , abiding horror -- a horror of the place I be in , and the bed I lay in , and the plaid on the wall , and the voice , and the fire , and myself .
The barber-gillie , who be a doctor too , be call in to prescribe for me ; but a he speak in the Gaelic , I understand not a word of his opinion , and be too sick even to ask for a translation .
I know well enough I be ill , and that be all I care about .
I pay little heed while I lay in this poor pas .
But Alan and Cluny be most of the time at the card , and I be clear that Alan must have begin by win ; for I remember sit up , and see them hard at it , and a great glitter pile of as much a sixty or a hundred guinea on the table .
It look strange enough , to see all this wealth in a nest upon a cliff-side , wattle about grow tree .
And even then , I think it seem deep water for Alan to be rid , who have no good battle-horse than a green purse and a matter of five pound .
The luck , it seem , change on the second day .
About noon I be waken a usual for dinner , and a usual refuse to eat , and be give a dram with some bitter infusion which the barber have prescribe .
The sun be shin in at the open door of the Cage , and this dazzle and offend me .
Cluny sit at the table , bite the pack of card .
Alan have stoop over the bed , and have his face close to my eye ; to which , trouble a they be with the fever , it seem of the most shocking bigness .
He ask me for a loan of my money .
`` What for ? ''
say I . `` O , just for a loan , '' say he .
`` But why ? ''
I repeat .
`` I do n't see . ''
`` Hut , David ! ''
say Alan , `` ye wouldnae grudge me a loan ? ''
I would , though , if I have have my sens !
But all I think of then be to get his face away , and I hand him my money .
On the morning of the third day , when we have be forty-eight hour in the Cage , I awake with a great relief of spirit , very weak and weary indeed , but see thing of the right size and with their honest , everyday appearance .
I have a mind to eat , moreover , rise from bed of my own movement , and as soon a we have breakfast , step to the entry of the Cage and sit down outside in the top of the wood .
It be a grey day with a cool , mild air : and I sit in a dream all morning , only disturb by the passing by of Cluny 's scout and servant come with provision and report ; for a the coast be at that time clear , you might almost say he hold court openly .
When I return , he and Alan have lay the card aside , and be question a gillie ; and the chief turn about and speak to me in the Gaelic .
`` I have no Gaelic , sir , '' say I .
Now since the card question , everything I say or do have the power of annoy Cluny .
`` Your name have more sense than yourself , then , '' say he angrily , `` for it 's good Gaelic .
But the point be this .
My scout report all clear in the south , and the question be , have ye the strength to go ? ''
I saw card on the table , but no gold ; only a heap of little write paper , and these all on Cluny 's side .
Alan , besides , have an odd look , like a man not very well content ; and I begin to have a strong misgiving .
`` I do not know if I be as well a I should be , '' say I , look at Alan ; `` but the little money we have have a long way to carry u . ''
Alan take his under-lip into his mouth , and look upon the ground .
`` David , '' say he at last , `` I 've lose it ; there 's the naked truth . ''
`` My money too ? ''
say I . `` Your money too , '' say Alan , with a groan .
`` Ye shouldnae have give it me .
I 'm daft when I get to the carte . ''
`` Hoot-toot !
hoot-toot ! ''
say Cluny .
`` It be all daffing ; it 's all nonsense .
Of course you 'll have your money back again , and the double of it , if ye 'll make so free with me .
It would be a singular thing for me to keep it .
It 's not to be suppose that I would be any hindrance to gentleman in your situation ; that would be a singular thing ! ''
cry he , and begin to pull gold out of his pocket with a mighty red face .
Alan say nothing , only look on the ground .
`` Will you step to the door with me , sir ? ''
say I. Cluny say he would be very glad , and follow me readily enough , but he look flustered and put out .
`` And now , sir , '' say I , `` I must first acknowledge your generosity . ''
`` Nonsensical nonsense ! ''
cry Cluny .
`` Where 's the generosity ?
This be just a most unfortunate affair ; but what would ye have me do -- box up in this bee-skep of a cage of mine -- but just set my friend to the carte , when I can get them ?
And if they lose , of course , it 's not to be suppose -- '' And here he come to a pause .
`` Yes , '' say I , `` if they lose , you give them back their money ; and if they win , they carry away yours in their pouch !
I have say before that I grant your generosity ; but to me , sir , it 's a very painful thing to be place in this position . ''
There be a little silence , in which Cluny seem always a if he be about to speak , but say nothing .
All the time he grow redder and redder in the face .
`` I be a young man , '' say I , `` and I ask your advice .
Advise me a you would your son .
My friend fairly lose his money , after have fairly gain a far great sum of yours ; can I accept it back again ?
Would that be the right part for me to play ?
Whatever I do , you can see for yourself it must be hard upon a man of any pride . ''
`` It 's rather hard on me , too , Mr. Balfour , '' say Cluny , `` and ye give me very much the look of a man that have entrap poor people to their hurt .
I wouldnae have my friend come to any house of mine to accept affront ; no , '' he cry , with a sudden heat of anger , `` nor yet to give them ! ''
`` And so you see , sir , '' say I , `` there be something to be say upon my side ; and this gambling be a very poor employ for gentlefolk .
But I be still wait your opinion . ''
I be sure if ever Cluny hat any man it be David Balfour .
He look me all over with a warlike eye , and I saw the challenge at his lip .
But either my youth disarm him , or perhaps his own sense of justice .
Certainly it be a mortifying matter for all concern , and not least Cluny ; the more credit that he take it a he do .
`` Mr. Balfour , '' say he , `` I think you be too nice and covenanting , but for all that you have the spirit of a very pretty gentleman .
Upon my honest word , ye may take this money -- it 's what I would tell my son -- and here 's my hand along with it ! ''
CHAPTER XXIV THE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER : THE QUARREL Alan and I be put across Loch Errocht under cloud of night , and go down it eastern shore to another hiding-place near the head of Loch Rannoch , whither we be lead by one of the gillie from the Cage .
This fellow carry all our luggage and Alan 's great-coat in the bargain , trot along under the burthen , far less than the half of which use to weigh me to the ground , like a stout hill pony with a feather ; yet he be a man that , in plain contest , I could have break on my knee .
Doubtless it be a great relief to walk disencumber ; and perhaps without that relief , and the consequent sense of liberty and lightness , I could not have walk at all .
I be but new risen from a bed of sickness ; and there be nothing in the state of our affair to hearten me for much exertion ; travel , a we do , over the most dismal desert in Scotland , under a cloudy heaven , and with divide heart among the traveller .
For long , we say nothing ; march alongside or one behind the other , each with a set countenance : I , angry and proud , and draw what strength I have from these two violent and sinful feeling ; Alan angry and ashamed , ashamed that he have lose my money , angry that I should take it so ill .
The thought of a separation ran always the stronger in my mind ; and the more I approve of it , the more ashamed I grow of my approval .
It would be a fine , handsome , generous thing , indeed , for Alan to turn round and say to me : `` Go , I be in the most danger , and my company only increase yours . ''
But for me to turn to the friend who certainly love me , and say to him : `` You be in great danger , I be in but little ; your friendship be a burden ; go , take your risk and bear your hardship alone -- '' no , that be impossible ; and even to think of it privily to myself , make my cheek to burn .
And yet Alan have behave like a child , and -LRB- what be bad -RRB- a treacherous child .
Wheedling my money from me while I lay half-conscious be scarce good than theft ; and yet here he be trudge by my side , without a penny to his name , and by what I could see , quite blithe to sponge upon the money he have drive me to beg .
True , I be ready to share it with him ; but it make me rage to see him count upon my readiness .
These be the two thing uppermost in my mind ; and I could open my mouth upon neither without black ungenerosity .
So I do the next worst , and say nothing , nor so much a looked once at my companion , save with the tail of my eye .
At last , upon the other side of Loch Errocht , go over a smooth , rushy place , where the walking be easy , he could bear it no longer , and come close to me .
`` David , '' say he , `` this be no way for two friend to take a small accident .
I have to say that I 'm sorry ; and so that 's say .
And now if you have anything , ye 'd good say it . ''
`` O , '' say I , `` I have nothing . ''
He seem disconcert ; at which I be meanly pleased .
`` No , '' say he , with rather a trembling voice , `` but when I say I be to blame ? ''
`` Why , of course , ye be to blame , '' say I , coolly ; `` and you will bear me out that I have never reproach you . ''
`` Never , '' say he ; `` but ye ken very well that ye 've do worse .
Are we to part ?
Ye say so once before .
Are ye to say it again ?
There 's hill and heather enough between here and the two sea , David ; and I will own I 'm no very keen to stay where I 'm no wanted . ''
This pierce me like a sword , and seem to lay bare my private disloyalty .
`` Alan Breck ! ''
I cry ; and then : `` Do you think I be one to turn my back on you in your chief need ?
You durs n't say it to my face .
My whole conduct 's there to give the lie to it .
It 's true , I fell asleep upon the muir ; but that be from weariness , and you do wrong to cast it up to me -- '' `` Which be what I never do , '' say Alan .
`` But aside from that , '' I continue , `` what have I do that you should even me to dog by such a supposition ?
I never yet fail a friend , and it 's not likely I 'll begin with you .
There be thing between u that I can never forget , even if you can . ''
`` I will only say this to ye , David , '' say Alan , very quietly , `` that I have long be owe ye my life , and now I owe ye money .
Ye should try to make that burden light for me . ''
This ought to have touch me , and in a manner it do , but the wrong manner .
I felt I be behave badly ; and be now not only angry with Alan , but angry with myself in the bargain ; and it make me the more cruel .
`` You ask me to speak , '' say I . `` Well , then , I will .
You own yourself that you have do me a disservice ; I have have to swallow an affront : I have never reproach you , I never name the thing till you do .
And now you blame me , '' cry I , `` because I cannae laugh and sing a if I be glad to be affront .
The next thing will be that I 'm to go down upon my knee and thank you for it !
Ye should think more of others , Alan Breck .
If ye think more of others , ye would perhaps speak less about yourself ; and when a friend that like you very well have pass over an offence without a word , you would be blithe to let it lie , instead of make it a stick to break his back with .
By your own way of it , it be you that be to blame ; then it shouldnae be you to seek the quarrel . ''
`` Aweel , '' say Alan , `` say nae mair . ''
And we fell back into our former silence ; and come to our journey 's end , and sup , and lay down to sleep , without another word .
The gillie put u across Loch Rannoch in the dusk of the next day , and give u his opinion a to our best route .
This be to get u up at once into the top of the mountain : to go round by a circuit , turn the head of Glen Lyon , Glen Lochay , and Glen Dochart , and come down upon the lowland by Kippen and the upper water of the Forth .
Alan be little pleased with a route which lead u through the country of his blood-foes , the Glenorchy Campbells .
He object that by turn to the east , we should come almost at once among the Athole Stewarts , a race of his own name and lineage , although follow a different chief , and come besides by a far easy and swift way to the place whither we be bind .
But the gillie , who be indeed the chief man of Cluny 's scout , have good reason to give him on all hand , name the force of troop in every district , and allege finally -LRB- as well a I could understand -RRB- that we should nowhere be so little troubled a in a country of the Campbells .
Alan give way at last , but with only half a heart .
`` It 's one of the dowiest country in Scotland , '' say he .
`` There 's naething there that I ken , but heath , and crow , and Campbells .
But I see that ye 're a man of some penetration ; and be it a ye please ! ''
We set forth accordingly by this itinerary ; and for the best part of three night travel on eerie mountain and among the well-heads of wild river ; often bury in mist , almost continually blown and rain upon , and not once cheer by any glimpse of sunshine .
By day , we lay and sleep in the drenching heather ; by night , incessantly clamber upon break-neck hill and among rude crag .
We often wander ; we be often so involved in fog , that we must lie quiet till it lighten .
A fire be never to be think of .
Our only food be drammach and a portion of cold meat that we have carry from the Cage ; and a for drink , Heaven know we have no want of water .
This be a dreadful time , render the more dreadful by the gloom of the weather and the country .
I be never warm ; my teeth chatter in my head ; I be trouble with a very sore throat , such a I have on the isle ; I have a painful stitch in my side , which never leave me ; and when I sleep in my wet bed , with the rain beating above and the mud ooze below me , it be to live over again in fancy the bad part of my adventure -- to see the tower of Shaws lit by lightning , Ransome carry below on the men 's back , Shuan die on the round-house floor , or Colin Campbell grasp at the bosom of his coat .
From such broken slumber , I would be arouse in the gloaming , to sit up in the same puddle where I have sleep , and sup cold drammach ; the rain drive sharp in my face or run down my back in icy trickle ; the mist enfold u like a in a gloomy chamber -- or , perhaps , if the wind blew , fall suddenly apart and show u the gulf of some dark valley where the stream be cry aloud .
The sound of an infinite number of river come up from all round .
In this steady rain the spring of the mountain be break up ; every glen gush water like a cistern ; every stream be in high spate , and have fill and overflow it channel .
During our night tramp , it be solemn to hear the voice of them below in the valley , now boom like thunder , now with an angry cry .
I could well understand the story of the Water Kelpie , that demon of the stream , who be fabled to keep wailing and roaring at the ford until the come of the doomed traveller .
Alan I saw believe it , or half believe it ; and when the cry of the river rise more than usually sharp , I be little surprised -LRB- though , of course , I would still be shock -RRB- to see him cross himself in the manner of the Catholics .
During all these horrid wandering we have no familiarity , scarcely even that of speech .
The truth be that I be sicken for my grave , which be my best excuse .
But besides that I be of an unforgiving disposition from my birth , slow to take offence , slow to forget it , and now incensed both against my companion and myself .
For the best part of two day he be unweariedly kind ; silent , indeed , but always ready to help , and always hop -LRB- a I could very well see -RRB- that my displeasure would blow by .
For the same length of time I stay in myself , nurse my anger , roughly refuse his service , and pass him over with my eye a if he have be a bush or a stone .
The second night , or rather the peep of the third day , find u upon a very open hill , so that we could not follow our usual plan and lie down immediately to eat and sleep .
Before we have reach a place of shelter , the grey have come pretty clear , for though it still rain , the cloud run high ; and Alan , look in my face , show some mark of concern .
`` Ye have good let me take your pack , '' say he , for perhaps the ninth time since we have part from the scout beside Loch Rannoch .
`` I do very well , I thank you , '' say I , as cold a ice .
Alan flush darkly .
`` I 'll not offer it again , '' he say .
`` I 'm not a patient man , David . ''
`` I never say you be , '' say I , which be exactly the rude , silly speech of a boy of ten .
Alan make no answer at the time , but his conduct answer for him .
Henceforth , it be to be think , he quite forgive himself for the affair at Cluny 's ; cock his hat again , walk jauntily , whistle air , and look at me upon one side with a provoking smile .
The third night we be to pass through the western end of the country of Balquhidder .
It come clear and cold , with a touch in the air like frost , and a northerly wind that blow the cloud away and make the star bright .
The stream be full , of course , and still make a great noise among the hill ; but I observe that Alan think no more upon the Kelpie , and be in high good spirit .
As for me , the change of weather come too late ; I have lie in the mire so long that -LRB- a the Bible have it -RRB- my very clothe `` abhor me . ''
I be dead weary , deadly sick and full of pain and shivering ; the chill of the wind go through me , and the sound of it confuse my ear .
In this poor state I have to bear from my companion something in the nature of a persecution .
He speak a good deal , and never without a taunt .
`` Whig '' be the best name he have to give me .
`` Here , '' he would say , `` here 's a dub for ye to jump , my Whiggie !
I ken you 're a fine jumper ! ''
And so on ; all the time with a gibing voice and face .
I know it be my own do , and no one else 's ; but I be too miserable to repent .
I felt I could drag myself but little far ; pretty soon , I must lie down and die on these wet mountain like a sheep or a fox , and my bone must whiten there like the bone of a beast .
My head be light perhaps ; but I begin to love the prospect , I begin to glory in the thought of such a death , alone in the desert , with the wild eagle besiege my last moment .
Alan would repent then , I think ; he would remember , when I be dead , how much he owe me , and the remembrance would be torture .
So I go like a sick , silly , and bad-hearted schoolboy , feed my anger against a fellow-man , when I would have be good on my knee , cry on God for mercy .
And at each of Alan 's taunt , I hug myself .
`` Ah ! ''
think I to myself , `` I have a good taunt in readiness ; when I lie down and die , you will feel it like a buffet in your face ; ah , what a revenge !
ah , how you will regret your ingratitude and cruelty ! ''
All the while , I be grow bad and bad .
Once I have fall , my leg simply double under me , and this have strike Alan for the moment ; but I be afoot so briskly , and set off again with such a natural manner , that he soon forget the incident .
Flushes of heat go over me , and then spasm of shuddering .
The stitch in my side be hardly bearable .
At last I begin to feel that I could trail myself no farther : and with that , there come on me all at once the wish to have it out with Alan , let my anger blaze , and be do with my life in a more sudden manner .
He have just call me `` Whig . ''
I stop .
`` Mr. Stewart , '' say I , in a voice that quiver like a fiddle-string , `` you be old than I be , and should know your manner .
Do you think it either very wise or very witty to cast my politics in my teeth ?
I think , where folk differ , it be the part of gentleman to differ civilly ; and if I do not , I may tell you I could find a good taunt than some of yours . ''
Alan have stop opposite to me , his hat cock , his hand in his breech pocket , his head a little on one side .
He listen , smile evilly , a I could see by the starlight ; and when I have do he begin to whistle a Jacobite air .
It be the air make in mockery of General Cope 's defeat at Preston Pans : `` Hey , Johnnie Cope , be ye waukin ' yet ?
And be your drum a-beatin ' yet ? ''
And it come in my mind that Alan , on the day of that battle , have be engage upon the royal side .
`` Why do ye take that air , Mr. Stewart ? ''
say I . `` Is that to remind me you have be beat on both side ? ''
The air stop on Alan 's lip .
`` David ! ''
say he .
`` But it 's time these manner cease , '' I continue ; `` and I mean you shall henceforth speak civilly of my King and my good friend the Campbells . ''
`` I be a Stewart -- '' begin Alan .
`` O ! ''
say I , `` I ken ye bear a king 's name .
But you be to remember , since I have be in the Highlands , I have see a good many of those that bear it ; and the best I can say of them be this , that they would be none the worse of wash . ''
`` Do you know that you insult me ? ''
say Alan , very low .
`` I be sorry for that , '' say I , `` for I be not do ; and if you distaste the sermon , I doubt the pirliecue * will please you a little .
You have be chase in the field by the grown men of my party ; it seem a poor kind of pleasure to out-face a boy .
Both the Campbells and the Whigs have beat you ; you have run before them like a hare .
It behove you to speak of them a of your better . ''
* A second sermon .
Alan stand quite still , the tail of his great-coat clap behind him in the wind .
`` This be a pity , '' he say at last .
`` There be thing say that can not be pass over . ''
`` I never ask you to , '' say I . `` I be as ready a yourself . ''
`` Ready ? ''
say he .
`` Ready , '' I repeat .
`` I be no blower and boaster like some that I could name .
Come on ! ''
And draw my sword , I fell on guard a Alan himself have teach me .
`` David ! ''
he cry .
`` Are ye daft ?
I cannae draw upon ye , David .
It 's fair murder . ''
`` That be your look-out when you insult me , '' say I . `` It 's the truth ! ''
cry Alan , and he stand for a moment , wring his mouth in his hand like a man in sore perplexity .
`` It 's the bare truth , '' he say , and draw his sword .
But before I could touch his blade with mine , he have throw it from him and fall to the ground .
`` Na , na , '' he keep say , `` na , na -- I cannae , I cannae . ''
At this the last of my anger ooze all out of me ; and I find myself only sick , and sorry , and blank , and wonder at myself .
I would have give the world to take back what I have say ; but a word once speak , who can recapture it ?
I mind me of all Alan 's kindness and courage in the past , how he have help and cheer and bear with me in our evil day ; and then recall my own insult , and saw that I have lose for ever that doughty friend .
At the same time , the sickness that hung upon me seem to redouble , and the pang in my side be like a sword for sharpness .
I think I must have swoon where I stand .
This it be that give me a thought .
No apology could blot out what I have say ; it be needless to think of one , none could cover the offence ; but where an apology be vain , a mere cry for help might bring Alan back to my side .
I put my pride away from me .
`` Alan ! ''
I say ; `` if ye cannae help me , I must just die here . ''
He start up sitting , and look at me .
`` It 's true , '' say I . `` I 'm by with it .
O , let me get into the bield of a house -- I 'll can die there easy . ''
I have no need to pretend ; whether I choose or not , I speak in a weeping voice that would have melt a heart of stone .
`` Can ye walk ? ''
ask Alan .
`` No , '' say I , `` not without help .
This last hour my leg have be faint under me ; I 've a stitch in my side like a red-hot iron ; I cannae breathe right .
If I die , ye 'll can forgive me , Alan ?
In my heart , I like ye fine -- even when I be the angry . ''
`` Wheesht , wheesht ! ''
cry Alan .
`` Dinna say that !
David man , ye ken -- '' He shut his mouth upon a sob .
`` Let me get my arm about ye , '' he continue ; `` that 's the way !
Now lean upon me hard .
Gude kens where there 's a house !
We 're in Balwhidder , too ; there should be no want of house , no , nor friend ' house here .
Do ye gang easy so , Davie ? ''
`` Ay , '' say I , `` I can be do this way ; '' and I press his arm with my hand .
Again he come near sobbing .
`` Davie , '' say he , `` I 'm no a right man at all ; I have neither sense nor kindness ; I could nae remember ye be just a bairn , I couldnae see ye be die on your foot ; Davie , ye 'll have to try and forgive me . ''
`` O man , let 's say no more about it ! ''
say I . `` We 're neither one of u to mend the other -- that 's the truth !
We must just bear and forbear , man Alan .
O , but my stitch be sore !
Is there nae house ? ''
`` I 'll find a house to ye , David , '' he say , stoutly .
`` We 'll follow down the burn , where there 's bound to be house .
My poor man , will ye no be good on my back ? ''
`` O , Alan , '' say I , `` and me a good twelve inch taller ? ''
`` Ye 're no such a thing , '' cry Alan , with a start .
`` There may be a trifling matter of an inch or two ; I 'm no say I 'm just exactly what ye would call a tall man , whatever ; and I dare say , '' he add , his voice tail off in a laughable manner , `` now when I come to think of it , I dare say ye 'll be just about right .
Ay , it 'll be a foot , or near hand ; or may be even mair ! ''
It be sweet and laughable to hear Alan eat his word up in the fear of some fresh quarrel .
I could have laugh , have not my stitch catch me so hard ; but if I have laugh , I think I must have weep too .
`` Alan , '' cry I , `` what make ye so good to me ?
What make ye care for such a thankless fellow ? '' ''
` Deed , and I do n't know '' say Alan .
`` For just precisely what I think I like about ye , be that ye never quarrel : -- and now I like ye well ! ''
CHAPTER XXV IN BALQUHIDDER At the door of the first house we come to , Alan knock , which be of no very safe enterprise in such a part of the Highlands a the Braes of Balquhidder .
No great clan hold rule there ; it be fill and dispute by small sept , and broken remnant , and what they call `` chiefless folk , '' drive into the wild country about the spring of Forth and Teith by the advance of the Campbells .
Here be Stewarts and Maclarens , which come to the same thing , for the Maclarens follow Alan 's chief in war , and make but one clan with Appin .
Here , too , be many of that old , proscribed , nameless , red-handed clan of the Macgregors .
They have always be ill-considered , and now bad than ever , have credit with no side or party in the whole country of Scotland .
Their chief , Macgregor of Macgregor , be in exile ; the more immediate leader of that part of them about Balquhidder , James More , Rob Roy 's eldest son , lay wait his trial in Edinburgh Castle ; they be in ill-blood with Highlander and Lowlander , with the Grahames , the Maclarens , and the Stewarts ; and Alan , who take up the quarrel of any friend , however distant , be extremely wishful to avoid them .
Chance serve u very well ; for it be a household of Maclarens that we find , where Alan be not only welcome for his name 's sake but know by reputation .
Here then I be get to bed without delay , and a doctor fetch , who find me in a sorry plight .
But whether because he be a very good doctor , or I a very young , strong man , I lay bedridden for no more than a week , and before a month I be able to take the road again with a good heart .
All this time Alan would not leave me though I often press him , and indeed his foolhardiness in stay be a common subject of outcry with the two or three friend that be let into the secret .
He hid by day in a hole of the brae under a little wood ; and at night , when the coast be clear , would come into the house to visit me .
I need not say if I be pleased to see him ; Mrs. Maclaren , our hostess , think nothing good enough for such a guest ; and a Duncan Dhu -LRB- which be the name of our host -RRB- have a pair of pipe in his house , and be much of a lover of music , this time of my recovery be quite a festival , and we commonly turn night into day .
The soldier let u be ; although once a party of two company and some dragoon go by in the bottom of the valley , where I could see them through the window a I lay in bed .
What be much more astonishing , no magistrate come near me , and there be no question put of whence I come or whither I be go ; and in that time of excitement , I be a free of all inquiry a though I have lie in a desert .
Yet my presence be know before I leave to all the people in Balquhidder and the adjacent part ; many come about the house on visit and these -LRB- after the custom of the country -RRB- spread the news among their neighbour .
The bill , too , have now be print .
There be one pin near the foot of my bed , where I could read my own not very flattering portrait and , in large character , the amount of the blood money that have be set upon my life .
Duncan Dhu and the rest that know that I have come there in Alan 's company , could have entertain no doubt of who I be ; and many others must have have their guess .
For though I have change my clothes , I could not change my age or person ; and Lowland boy of eighteen be not so rife in these part of the world , and above all about that time , that they could fail to put one thing with another , and connect me with the bill .
So it be , at least .
Other folk keep a secret among two or three near friend , and somehow it leak out ; but among these clansman , it be tell to a whole countryside , and they will keep it for a century .
There be but one thing happen worth narrating ; and that be the visit I have of Robin Oig , one of the son of the notorious Rob Roy .
He be seek upon all side on a charge of carry a young woman from Balfron and marry her -LRB- a be allege -RRB- by force ; yet he step about Balquhidder like a gentleman in his own walled policy .
It be he who have shoot James Maclaren at the plough stilt , a quarrel never satisfy ; yet he walk into the house of his blood enemy a a rider * might into a public inn .
* Commercial traveller .
Duncan have time to pass me word of who it be ; and we look at one another in concern .
You should understand , it be then close upon the time of Alan 's come ; the two be little likely to agree ; and yet if we send word or seek to make a signal , it be sure to arouse suspicion in a man under so dark a cloud a the Macgregor .
He come in with a great show of civility , but like a man among inferior ; take off his bonnet to Mrs. Maclaren , but clap it on his head again to speak to Duncan ; and have thus set himself -LRB- a he would have think -RRB- in a proper light , come to my bedside and bow .
`` I be give to know , sir , '' say he , `` that your name be Balfour . ''
`` They call me David Balfour , '' say I , `` at your service . ''
`` I would give ye my name in return , sir , '' he reply , `` but it 's one somewhat blown upon of late day ; and it 'll perhaps suffice if I tell ye that I be own brother to James More Drummond or Macgregor , of whom ye will scarce have fail to hear . ''
`` No , sir , '' say I , a little alarmed ; `` nor yet of your father , Macgregor-Campbell . ''
And I sit up and bow in bed ; for I think best to compliment him , in case he be proud of have have an outlaw to his father .
He bow in return .
`` But what I be come to say , sir , '' he go on , `` be this .
In the year ' 45 , my brother raise a part of the ` Gregara ' and march six company to strike a stroke for the good side ; and the surgeon that march with our clan and cure my brother 's leg when it be break in the brush at Preston Pans , be a gentleman of the same name precisely a yourself .
He be brother to Balfour of Baith ; and if you be in any reasonable degree of nearness one of that gentleman 's kin , I have come to put myself and my people at your command . ''
You be to remember that I know no more of my descent than any cadger 's dog ; my uncle , to be sure , have prate of some of our high connection , but nothing to the present purpose ; and there be nothing leave me but that bitter disgrace of own that I could not tell .
Robin tell me shortly he be sorry he have put himself about , turn his back upon me without a sign of salutation , and a he go towards the door , I could hear him tell Duncan that I be `` only some kinless loon that do n't know his own father . ''
Angry a I be at these word , and ashamed of my own ignorance , I could scarce keep from smile that a man who be under the lash of the law -LRB- and be indeed hang some three year later -RRB- should be so nice a to the descent of his acquaintance .
Just in the door , he meet Alan come in ; and the two draw back and look at each other like strange dog .
They be neither of them big men , but they seem fairly to swell out with pride .
Each wear a sword , and by a movement of his haunch , thrust clear the hilt of it , so that it might be the more readily grasped and the blade drawn .
`` Mr. Stewart , I be think , '' say Robin .
`` Troth , Mr. Macgregor , it 's not a name to be ashamed of , '' answer Alan .
`` I do not know ye be in my country , sir , '' say Robin .
`` It stick in my mind that I be in the country of my friend the Maclarens , '' say Alan .
`` That 's a kittle point , '' return the other .
`` There may be two word to say to that .
But I think I will have hear that you be a man of your sword ? ''
`` Unless ye be bear deaf , Mr. Macgregor , ye will have hear a good deal more than that , '' say Alan .
`` I be not the only man that can draw steel in Appin ; and when my kinsman and captain , Ardshiel , have a talk with a gentleman of your name , not so many year back , I could never hear that the Macgregor have the best of it . ''
`` Do ye mean my father , sir ? ''
say Robin .
`` Well , I wouldnae wonder , '' say Alan .
`` The gentleman I have in my mind have the ill-taste to clap Campbell to his name . ''
`` My father be an old man , '' return Robin .
`` The match be unequal .
You and me would make a good pair , sir . ''
`` I be think that , '' say Alan .
I be half out of bed , and Duncan have be hang at the elbow of these fight cock , ready to intervene upon the least occasion .
But when that word be uttered , it be a case of now or never ; and Duncan , with something of a white face to be sure , thrust himself between .
`` Gentlemen , '' say he , `` I will have be think of a very different matter , whateffer .
Here be my pipe , and here be you two gentleman who be baith acclaimed piper .
It 's an auld dispute which one of ye 's the best .
Here will be a braw chance to settle it . ''
`` Why , sir , '' say Alan , still address Robin , from whom indeed he have not so much a shift his eye , nor yet Robin from him , `` why , sir , '' say Alan , `` I think I will have hear some sough * of the sort .
Have ye music , a folk say ?
Are ye a bit of a piper ? ''
* Rumour .
`` I can pipe like a Macrimmon ! ''
cry Robin .
`` And that be a very bold word , '' quoth Alan .
`` I have make bolder word good before now , '' return Robin , `` and that against good adversary . ''
`` It be easy to try that , '' say Alan .
Duncan Dhu make haste to bring out the pair of pipe that be his principal possession , and to set before his guest a mutton-ham and a bottle of that drink which they call Athole brose , and which be make of old whiskey , strain honey and sweet cream , slowly beat together in the right order and proportion .
The two enemy be still on the very breach of a quarrel ; but down they sit , one upon each side of the peat fire , with a mighty show of politeness .
Maclaren press them to taste his mutton-ham and `` the wife 's brose , '' remind them the wife be out of Athole and have a name far and wide for her skill in that confection .
But Robin put aside these hospitality a bad for the breath .
`` I would have ye to remark , sir , '' say Alan , `` that I havenae broken bread for near upon ten hour , which will be bad for the breath than any brose in Scotland . ''
`` I will take no advantage , Mr. Stewart , '' reply Robin .
`` Eat and drink ; I 'll follow you . ''
Each ate a small portion of the ham and drink a glass of the brose to Mrs. Maclaren ; and then after a great number of civility , Robin take the pipe and play a little spring in a very ranting manner .
`` Ay , ye can blow '' say Alan ; and take the instrument from his rival , he first play the same spring in a manner identical with Robin 's ; and then wander into variation , which , a he go on , he decorate with a perfect flight of grace-notes , such a piper love , and call the `` warbler . ''
I have be please with Robin 's playing , Alan 's ravish me .
`` That 's no very bad , Mr. Stewart , '' say the rival , `` but ye show a poor device in your warbler . ''
`` Me ! ''
cry Alan , the blood start to his face .
`` I give ye the lie . ''
`` Do ye own yourself beat at the pipe , then , '' say Robin , `` that ye seek to change them for the sword ? ''
`` And that 's very well say , Mr. Macgregor , '' return Alan ; `` and in the meantime '' -LRB- lay a strong accent on the word -RRB- `` I take back the lie .
I appeal to Duncan . ''
`` Indeed , ye need appeal to naebody , '' say Robin .
`` Ye 're a far good judge than any Maclaren in Balquhidder : for it 's a God 's truth that you 're a very creditable piper for a Stewart .
Hand me the pipe . ''
Alan do a he ask ; and Robin proceed to imitate and correct some part of Alan 's variation , which it seem that he remember perfectly .
`` Ay , ye have music , '' say Alan , gloomily .
`` And now be the judge yourself , Mr. Stewart , '' say Robin ; and take up the variation from the beginning , he work them throughout to so new a purpose , with such ingenuity and sentiment , and with so odd a fancy and so quick a knack in the grace-notes , that I be amaze to hear him .
As for Alan , his face grow dark and hot , and he sit and gnaw his finger , like a man under some deep affront .
`` Enough ! ''
he cry .
`` Ye can blow the pipe -- make the most of that . ''
And he make a if to rise .
But Robin only hold out his hand a if to ask for silence , and strike into the slow measure of a pibroch .
It be a fine piece of music in itself , and nobly play ; but it seem , besides , it be a piece peculiar to the Appin Stewarts and a chief favourite with Alan .
The first note be scarce out , before there come a change in his face ; when the time quicken , he seem to grow restless in his seat ; and long before that piece be at an end , the last sign of his anger die from him , and he have no thought but for the music .
`` Robin Oig , '' he say , when it be do , `` ye be a great piper .
I be not fit to blow in the same kingdom with ye .
Body of me !
ye have mair music in your sporran than I have in my head !
And though it still stick in my mind that I could maybe show ye another of it with the cold steel , I warn ye beforehand -- it 'll no be fair !
It would go against my heart to haggle a man that can blow the pipe a you can ! ''
Thereupon that quarrel be make up ; all night long the brose be go and the pipe change hand ; and the day have come pretty bright , and the three men be none the good for what they have be take , before Robin as much a think upon the road .
CHAPTER XXVI END OF THE FLIGHT : WE PASS THE FORTH The month , a I have say , be not yet out , but it be already far through August , and beautiful warm weather , with every sign of an early and great harvest , when I be pronounce able for my journey .
Our money be now run to so low an ebb that we must think first of all on speed ; for if we come not soon to Mr. Rankeillor 's , or if when we come there he should fail to help me , we must surely starve .
In Alan 's view , besides , the hunt must have now greatly slacken ; and the line of the Forth and even Stirling Bridge , which be the main pas over that river , would be watch with little interest .
`` It 's a chief principle in military affair , '' say he , `` to go where ye be least expected .
Forth be our trouble ; ye ken the saying , ` Forth bridle the wild Hielandman . '
Well , if we seek to creep round about the head of that river and come down by Kippen or Balfron , it 's just precisely there that they 'll be look to lay hand on u .
But if we stave on straight to the auld Brig of Stirling , I 'll lay my sword they let u pass unchallenged . ''
The first night , accordingly , we push to the house of a Maclaren in Strathire , a friend of Duncan 's , where we sleep the twenty-first of the month , and whence we set forth again about the fall of night to make another easy stage .
The twenty-second we lay in a heather bush on the hillside in Uam Var , within view of a herd of deer , the happy ten hour of sleep in a fine , breathe sunshine and on bone-dry ground , that I have ever taste .
That night we strike Allan Water , and follow it down ; and come to the edge of the hill saw the whole Carse of Stirling underfoot , as flat a a pancake , with the town and castle on a hill in the midst of it , and the moon shin on the Links of Forth .
`` Now , '' say Alan , `` I kenna if ye care , but ye 're in your own land again .
We pass the Hieland Line in the first hour ; and now if we could but pass yon crooked water , we might cast our bonnet in the air . ''
In Allan Water , near by where it fall into the Forth , we find a little sandy islet , overgrown with burdock , butterbur and the like low plant , that would just cover u if we lay flat .
Here it be we make our camp , within plain view of Stirling Castle , whence we could hear the drum beat a some part of the garrison parade .
Shearers work all day in a field on one side of the river , and we could hear the stone go on the hook and the voice and even the word of the men talk .
It behove to lie close and keep silent .
But the sand of the little isle be sun-warm , the green plant give u shelter for our head , we have food and drink in plenty ; and to crown all , we be within sight of safety .
As soon a the shearer quit their work and the dusk begin to fall , we wad ashore and strike for the Bridge of Stirling , keep to the field and under the field fence .
The bridge be close under the castle hill , an old , high , narrow bridge with pinnacle along the parapet ; and you may conceive with how much interest I look upon it , not only a a place famous in history , but a the very door of salvation to Alan and myself .
The moon be not yet up when we come there ; a few light shone along the front of the fortress , and low down a few lighted window in the town ; but it be all mighty still , and there seem to be no guard upon the passage .
I be for push straight across ; but Alan be more wary .
`` It look unco ' quiet , '' say he ; `` but for all that we 'll lie down here cannily behind a dyke , and make sure . ''
So we lay for about a quarter of an hour , whiles whisper , while lie still and hear nothing earthly but the washing of the water on the pier .
At last there come by an old , hobble woman with a crutch stick ; who first stop a little , close to where we lay , and bemoan herself and the long way she have travel ; and then set forth again up the steep spring of the bridge .
The woman be so little , and the night still so dark , that we soon lose sight of her ; only hear the sound of her step , and her stick , and a cough that she have by fit , draw slowly far away .
`` She 's bound to be across now , '' I whisper .
`` Na , '' say Alan , `` her foot still sound boss * upon the bridge . ''
* Hollow .
And just then -- `` Who go ? ''
cry a voice , and we hear the butt of a musket rattle on the stone .
I must suppose the sentry have be sleep , so that have we try , we might have pass unseen ; but he be awake now , and the chance forfeit .
`` This 'll never do , '' say Alan .
`` This 'll never , never do for u , David . ''
And without another word , he begin to crawl away through the field ; and a little after , be well out of eye-shot , get to his foot again , and strike along a road that lead to the eastward .
I could not conceive what he be do ; and indeed I be so sharply cut by the disappointment , that I be little likely to be please with anything .
A moment back and I have see myself knock at Mr. Rankeillor 's door to claim my inheritance , like a hero in a ballad ; and here be I back again , a wandering , hunt blackguard , on the wrong side of Forth .
`` Well ? ''
say I . `` Well , '' say Alan , `` what would ye have ?
They 're none such fool a I take them for .
We have still the Forth to pass , Davie -- weary fall the rain that feed and the hillside that guide it ! ''
`` And why go east ? ''
say I . `` Ou , just upon the chance ! ''
say he .
`` If we cannae pas the river , we 'll have to see what we can do for the firth . ''
`` There be ford upon the river , and none upon the firth , '' say I . `` To be sure there be ford , and a bridge forbye , '' quoth Alan ; `` and of what service , when they be watch ? ''
`` Well , '' say I , `` but a river can be swim . ''
`` By them that have the skill of it , '' return he ; `` but I have yet to hear that either you or me be much of a hand at that exercise ; and for my own part , I swim like a stone . ''
`` I 'm not up to you in talk back , Alan , '' I say ; `` but I can see we 're make bad worse .
If it 's hard to pass a river , it stand to reason it must be bad to pass a sea . ''
`` But there 's such a thing a a boat , '' say Alan , `` or I 'm the more deceived . ''
`` Ay , and such a thing a money , '' say I . `` But for u that have neither one nor other , they might just as well not have be invent . ''
`` Ye think so ? ''
say Alan .
`` I do that , '' say I . `` David , '' say he , `` ye 're a man of small invention and less faith .
But let me set my wit upon the hone , and if I cannae beg , borrow , nor yet steal a boat , I 'll make one ! ''
`` I think I see ye ! ''
say I . `` And what 's more than all that : if ye pass a bridge , it can tell no tale ; but if we pass the firth , there 's the boat on the wrong side -- somebody must have bring it -- the country-side will all be in a bizz -- '' `` Man ! ''
cry Alan , `` if I make a boat , I 'll make a body to take it back again !
So deave me with no more of your nonsense , but walk -LRB- for that 's what you 've get to do -RRB- -- and let Alan think for ye . ''
All night , then , we walk through the north side of the Carse under the high line of the Ochil mountain ; and by Alloa and Clackmannan and Culross , all of which we avoid : and about ten in the morning , mighty hungry and tired , come to the little clachan of Limekilns .
This be a place that sit near in by the water-side , and look across the Hope to the town of the Queensferry .
Smoke go up from both of these , and from other village and farm upon all hand .
The field be be reap ; two ship lay anchor , and boat be come and go on the Hope .
It be altogether a right pleasant sight to me ; and I could not take my fill of gaze at these comfortable , green , cultivated hill and the busy people both of the field and sea .
For all that , there be Mr. Rankeillor 's house on the south shore , where I have no doubt wealth await me ; and here be I upon the north , clad in poor enough attire of an outlandish fashion , with three silver shilling leave to me of all my fortune , a price set upon my head , and an outlawed man for my sole company .
`` O , Alan ! ''
say I , `` to think of it !
Over there , there 's all that heart could want wait me ; and the bird go over , and the boat go over -- all that please can go , but just me only !
O , man , but it 's a heart-break ! ''
In Limekilns we enter a small change-house , which we only know to be a public by the wand over the door , and buy some bread and cheese from a good-looking lass that be the servant .
This we carry with u in a bundle , mean to sit and eat it in a bush of wood on the sea-shore , that we saw some third part of a mile in front .
As we go , I keep look across the water and sigh to myself ; and though I take no heed of it , Alan have fall into a muse .
At last he stop in the way .
`` Did ye take heed of the lass we buy this of ? ''
say he , tap on the bread and cheese .
`` To be sure , '' say I , `` and a bonny lass she be . ''
`` Ye thought that ? ''
cry he .
`` Man , David , that 's good news . ''
`` In the name of all that 's wonderful , why so ? ''
say I . `` What good can that do ? ''
`` Well , '' say Alan , with one of his droll look , `` I be rather in hope it would maybe get u that boat . ''
`` If it be the other way about , it would be like it , '' say I . `` That 's all that you ken , ye see , '' say Alan .
`` I do n't want the lass to fall in love with ye , I want her to be sorry for ye , David ; to which end there be no manner of need that she should take you for a beauty .
Let me see '' -LRB- look me curiously over -RRB- .
`` I wish ye be a wee thing paler ; but apart from that ye 'll do fine for my purpose -- ye have a fine , hang-dog , rag-and-tatter , clappermaclaw kind of a look to ye , a if ye have steal the coat from a potato-bogle .
Come ; right about , and back to the change-house for that boat of ours . ''
I follow him , laugh .
`` David Balfour , '' say he , `` ye 're a very funny gentleman by your way of it , and this be a very funny employ for ye , no doubt .
For all that , if ye have any affection for my neck -LRB- to say nothing of your own -RRB- ye will perhaps be kind enough to take this matter responsibly .
I be go to do a bit of play-acting , the bottom ground of which be just exactly as serious a the gallows for the pair of u .
So bear it , if ye please , in mind , and conduct yourself accord . ''
`` Well , well , '' say I , `` have it a you will . ''
As we get near the clachan , he make me take his arm and hang upon it like one almost helpless with weariness ; and by the time he push open the change-house door , he seem to be half carry me .
The maid appear surprised -LRB- a well she might be -RRB- at our speedy return ; but Alan have no word to spare for her in explanation , help me to a chair , call for a ta of brandy with which he feed me in little sip , and then break up the bread and cheese help me to eat it like a nursery-lass ; the whole with that grave , concern , affectionate countenance , that might have impose upon a judge .
It be small wonder if the maid be take with the picture we present , of a poor , sick , overwrought lad and his most tender comrade .
She draw quite near , and stand lean with her back on the next table .
`` What 's like wrong with him ? ''
say she at last .
Alan turn upon her , to my great wonder , with a kind of fury .
`` Wrong ? ''
cry he .
`` He 's walk more hundred of mile than he have hairs upon his chin , and sleep oftener in wet heather than dry sheet .
Wrong , quo ' she !
Wrong enough , I would think !
Wrong , indeed ! ''
and he keep grumble to himself a he feed me , like a man ill-pleased .
`` He 's young for the like of that , '' say the maid .
`` Ower young , '' say Alan , with his back to her .
`` He would be good riding , '' say she .
`` And where could I get a horse to him ? ''
cry Alan , turn on her with the same appearance of fury .
`` Would ye have me steal ? ''
I think this roughness would have send her off in dudgeon , a indeed it close her mouth for the time .
But my companion know very well what he be do ; and for as simple a he be in some thing of life , have a great fund of roguishness in such affair a these .
`` Ye neednae tell me , '' she say at last -- `` ye 're gentry . ''
`` Well , '' say Alan , soften a little -LRB- I believe against his will -RRB- by this artless comment , `` and suppose we be ?
Did ever you hear that gentrice put money in folk 's pocket ? ''
She sigh at this , a if she be herself some disinherit great lady .
`` No , '' say she , `` that 's true indeed . ''
I be all this while chafe at the part I play , and sit tongue-tied between shame and merriment ; but somehow at this I could hold in no longer , and bid Alan let me be , for I be well already .
My voice stuck in my throat , for I ever hat to take part in lie ; but my very embarrassment help on the plot , for the lass no doubt set down my husky voice to sickness and fatigue .
`` Has he nae friend ? ''
say she , in a tearful voice .
`` That have he so ! ''
cry Alan , `` if we could but win to them !
-- friend and rich friend , bed to lie in , food to eat , doctor to see to him -- and here he must tramp in the dub and sleep in the heather like a beggarman . ''
`` And why that ? ''
say the lass .
`` My dear , '' say Alan , `` I cannae very safely say ; but I 'll tell ye what I 'll do instead , '' say he , `` I 'll whistle ye a bit tune . ''
And with that he lean pretty far over the table , and in a mere breath of a whistle , but with a wonderful pretty sentiment , give her a few bar of `` Charlie be my darling . ''
`` Wheesht , '' say she , and look over her shoulder to the door .
`` That 's it , '' say Alan .
`` And him so young ! ''
cry the lass .
`` He 's old enough to -- '' and Alan strike his forefinger on the back part of his neck , mean that I be old enough to lose my head .
`` It would be a black shame , '' she cry , flush high .
`` It 's what will be , though , '' say Alan , `` unless we manage the good . ''
At this the lass turn and run out of that part of the house , leave u alone together .
Alan in high good humour at the furthering of his scheme , and I in bitter dudgeon at be call a Jacobite and treat like a child .
`` Alan , '' I cry , `` I can stand no more of this . ''
`` Ye 'll have to sit it then , Davie , '' say he .
`` For if ye upset the pot now , ye may scrape your own life out of the fire , but Alan Breck be a dead man . ''
This be so true that I could only groan ; and even my groan serve Alan 's purpose , for it be overhear by the lass a she come fly in again with a dish of white pudding and a bottle of strong ale .
`` Poor lamb ! ''
say she , and have no sooner set the meat before u , than she touch me on the shoulder with a little friendly touch , as much a to bid me cheer up .
Then she tell u to fall to , and there would be no more to pay ; for the inn be her own , or at least her father 's , and he be go for the day to Pittencrieff .
We wait for no second bidding , for bread and cheese be but cold comfort and the pudding smelt excellently well ; and while we sit and ate , she take up that same place by the next table , look on , and thinking , and frown to herself , and draw the string of her apron through her hand .
`` I 'm think ye have rather a long tongue , '' she say at last to Alan .
`` Ay '' say Alan ; `` but ye see I ken the folk I speak to . ''
`` I would never betray ye , '' say she , `` if ye mean that . ''
`` No , '' say he , `` ye 're not that kind .
But I 'll tell ye what ye would do , ye would help . ''
`` I couldnae , '' say she , shake her head .
`` Na , I couldnae . ''
`` No , '' say he , `` but if ye could ? ''
She answer him nothing .
`` Look here , my lass , '' say Alan , `` there be boat in the Kingdom of Fife , for I saw two -LRB- no less -RRB- upon the beach , a I come in by your town 's end .
Now if we could have the use of a boat to pass under cloud of night into Lothian , and some secret , decent kind of a man to bring that boat back again and keep his counsel , there would be two souls save -- mine to all likelihood -- his to a dead surety .
If we lack that boat , we have but three shilling leave in this wide world ; and where to go , and how to do , and what other place there be for u except the chain of a gibbet -- I give you my naked word , I kenna !
Shall we go want , lassie ?
Are ye to lie in your warm bed and think upon u , when the wind gowls in the chimney and the rain tirls on the roof ?
Are ye to eat your meat by the cheek of a red fire , and think upon this poor sick lad of mine , bite his finger end on a blae muir for cauld and hunger ?
Sick or sound , he must aye be move ; with the death grapple at his throat he must aye be trail in the rain on the lang road ; and when he gants his last on a rickle of cauld stanes , there will be nae friend near him but only me and God . ''
At this appeal , I could see the lass be in great trouble of mind , be tempt to help u , and yet in some fear she might be help malefactor ; and so now I determine to step in myself and to allay her scruple with a portion of the truth .
`` Did ever you hear , '' say I , `` of Mr. Rankeillor of the Ferry ? ''
`` Rankeillor the writer ? ''
say she .
`` I daur say that ! ''
`` Well , '' say I , `` it 's to his door that I be bound , so you may judge by that if I be an ill-doer ; and I will tell you more , that though I be indeed , by a dreadful error , in some peril of my life , King George have no truer friend in all Scotland than myself . ''
Her face clear up mightily at this , although Alan 's darken .
`` That 's more than I would ask , '' say she .
`` Mr. Rankeillor be a kennt man . ''
And she bid u finish our meat , get clear of the clachan as soon a might be , and lie close in the bit wood on the sea-beach .
`` And ye can trust me , '' say she , `` I 'll find some mean to put you over . ''
At this we wait for no more , but shake hand with her upon the bargain , make short work of the pudding , and set forth again from Limekilns as far a to the wood .
It be a small piece of perhaps a score of elder and hawthorn and a few young ash , not thick enough to veil u from passersby upon the road or beach .
Here we must lie , however , make the best of the brave warm weather and the good hope we now have of a deliverance , and plan more particularly what remain for u to do .
We have but one trouble all day ; when a stroll piper come and sit in the same wood with u ; a red-nosed , bleareyed , drunken dog , with a great bottle of whisky in his pocket , and a long story of wrong that have be do him by all sort of person , from the Lord President of the Court of Session , who have deny him justice , down to the Bailies of Inverkeithing who have give him more of it than he desire .
It be impossible but he should conceive some suspicion of two men lie all day conceal in a thicket and have no business to allege .
As long a he stay there he keep u in hot water with prying question ; and after he be go , a he be a man not very likely to hold his tongue , we be in the great impatience to be go ourselves .
The day come to an end with the same brightness ; the night fell quiet and clear ; light come out in house and hamlet and then , one after another , begin to be put out ; but it be past eleven , and we be long since strangely torture with anxiety , before we hear the grinding of oar upon the rowing-pins .
At that , we look out and saw the lass herself come row to u in a boat .
She have trust no one with our affair , not even her sweetheart , if she have one ; but as soon a her father be asleep , have leave the house by a window , steal a neighbour 's boat , and come to our assistance single-handed .
I be abash how to find expression for my thanks ; but she be no less abash at the thought of hear them ; beg u to lose no time and to hold our peace , say -LRB- very properly -RRB- that the heart of our matter be in haste and silence ; and so , what with one thing and another , she have set u on the Lothian shore not far from Carriden , have shake hand with u , and be out again at sea and rowing for Limekilns , before there be one word say either of her service or our gratitude .
Even after she be go , we have nothing to say , a indeed nothing be enough for such a kindness .
Only Alan stand a great while upon the shore shake his head .
`` It be a very fine lass , '' he say at last .
`` David , it be a very fine lass . ''
And a matter of an hour later , a we be lie in a den on the sea-shore and I have be already doze , he break out again in commendation of her character .
For my part , I could say nothing , she be so simple a creature that my heart smite me both with remorse and fear : remorse because we have trade upon her ignorance ; and fear l we should have anyway involve her in the danger of our situation .
CHAPTER XXVII I COME TO MR. RANKEILLOR The next day it be agree that Alan should fend for himself till sunset ; but as soon a it begin to grow dark , he should lie in the field by the roadside near to Newhalls , and stir for naught until he hear me whistle .
At first I propose I should give him for a signal the `` Bonnie House of Airlie , '' which be a favourite of mine ; but he object that a the piece be very commonly know , any ploughman might whistle it by accident ; and teach me instead a little fragment of a Highland air , which have run in my head from that day to this , and will likely run in my head when I lie die .
Every time it come to me , it take me off to that last day of my uncertainty , with Alan sit up in the bottom of the den , whistle and beat the measure with a finger , and the grey of the dawn come on his face .
I be in the long street of Queensferry before the sun be up .
It be a fairly build burgh , the house of good stone , many slat ; the town-hall not so fine , I think , a that of Peebles , nor yet the street so noble ; but take it altogether , it put me to shame for my foul tatter .
As the morning go on , and the fire begin to be kindle , and the window to open , and the people to appear out of the house , my concern and despondency grow ever the blacker .
I saw now that I have no ground to stand upon ; and no clear proof of my right , nor so much a of my own identity .
If it be all a bubble , I be indeed sorely cheat and leave in a sore pas .
Even if thing be a I conceive , it would in all likelihood take time to establish my contention ; and what time have I to spare with less than three shilling in my pocket , and a condemn , hunt man upon my hand to ship out of the country ?
Truly , if my hope break with me , it might come to the gallows yet for both of u .
And a I continue to walk up and down , and saw people look askance at me upon the street or out of window , and nudge or speak one to another with smile , I begin to take a fresh apprehension : that it might be no easy matter even to come to speech of the lawyer , far less to convince him of my story .
For the life of me I could not muster up the courage to address any of these reputable burgher ; I think shame even to speak with them in such a pickle of rag and dirt ; and if I have ask for the house of such a man a Mr. Rankeillor , I suppose they would have burst out laugh in my face .
So I go up and down , and through the street , and down to the harbour-side , like a dog that have lose it master , with a strange gnawing in my inwards , and every now and then a movement of despair .
It grow to be high day at last , perhaps nine in the forenoon ; and I be wear with these wandering , and chance to have stop in front of a very good house on the landward side , a house with beautiful , clear glass window , flower knot upon the sill , the wall new-harled * and a chase-dog sit yawn on the step like one that be at home .
Well , I be even envy this dumb brute , when the door fell open and there issue forth a shrewd , ruddy , kindly , consequential man in a well-powdered wig and spectacle .
I be in such a plight that no one set eye on me once , but he look at me again ; and this gentleman , a it prove , be so much struck with my poor appearance that he come straight up to me and ask me what I do .
* Newly rough-cast .
I tell him I be come to the Queensferry on business , and take heart of grace , ask him to direct me to the house of Mr. Rankeillor .
`` Why , '' say he , `` that be his house that I have just come out of ; and for a rather singular chance , I be that very man . ''
`` Then , sir , '' say I , `` I have to beg the favour of an interview . ''
`` I do not know your name , '' say he , `` nor yet your face . ''
`` My name be David Balfour , '' say I . `` David Balfour ? ''
he repeat , in rather a high tone , like one surprise .
`` And where have you come from , Mr. David Balfour ? ''
he ask , look me pretty drily in the face .
`` I have come from a great many strange place , sir , '' say I ; `` but I think it would be as well to tell you where and how in a more private manner . ''
He seem to muse awhile , hold his lip in his hand , and look now at me and now upon the causeway of the street .
`` Yes , '' say he , `` that will be the best , no doubt . ''
And he lead me back with him into his house , cry out to some one whom I could not see that he would be engage all morning , and bring me into a little dusty chamber full of book and document .
Here he sate down , and bid me be seat ; though I think he look a little ruefully from his clean chair to my muddy rag .
`` And now , '' say he , `` if you have any business , pray be brief and come swiftly to the point .
Nec gemino bellum Trojanum orditur ab ovo -- do you understand that ? ''
say he , with a keen look .
`` I will even do a Horace say , sir , '' I answer , smile , `` and carry you in medias re . ''
He nod a if he be well pleased , and indeed his scrap of Latin have be set to test me .
For all that , and though I be somewhat encouraged , the blood come in my face when I add : `` I have reason to believe myself some right on the estate of Shaws . ''
He get a paper book out of a drawer and set it before him open .
`` Well ? ''
say he .
But I have shoot my bolt and sat speechless .
`` Come , come , Mr. Balfour , '' say he , `` you must continue .
Where be you bear ? ''
`` In Essendean , sir , '' say I , `` the year 1733 , the 12th of March . ''
He seem to follow this statement in his paper book ; but what that mean I know not .
`` Your father and mother ? ''
say he .
`` My father be Alexander Balfour , schoolmaster of that place , '' say I , `` and my mother Grace Pitarrow ; I think her people be from Angus . ''
`` Have you any paper prove your identity ? ''
ask Mr. Rankeillor .
`` No , sir , '' say I , `` but they be in the hand of Mr. Campbell , the minister , and could be readily produce .
Mr. Campbell , too , would give me his word ; and for that matter , I do not think my uncle would deny me . ''
`` Meaning Mr. Ebenezer Balfour ? ''
say he .
`` The same , '' say I . `` Whom you have see ? ''
he ask .
`` By whom I be receive into his own house , '' I answer .
`` Did you ever meet a man of the name of Hoseason ? ''
ask Mr. Rankeillor .
`` I do so , sir , for my sin , '' say I ; `` for it be by his mean and the procurement of my uncle , that I be kidnap within sight of this town , carry to sea , suffer shipwreck and a hundred other hardship , and stand before you to-day in this poor accoutrement . ''
`` You say you be shipwreck , '' say Rankeillor ; `` where be that ? ''
`` Off the south end of the Isle of Mull , '' say I . `` The name of the isle on which I be cast up be the Island Earraid . ''
`` Ah ! ''
say he , smile , `` you be deep than me in the geography .
But so far , I may tell you , this agree pretty exactly with other information that I hold .
But you say you be kidnap ; in what sense ? ''
`` In the plain meaning of the word , sir , '' say I . `` I be on my way to your house , when I be trepan on board the brig , cruelly strike down , thrown below , and know no more of anything till we be far at sea .
I be destine for the plantation ; a fate that , in God 's providence , I have escape . ''
`` The brig be lose on June the 27th , '' say he , look in his book , `` and we be now at August the 24th .
Here be a considerable hiatus , Mr. Balfour , of near upon two month .
It have already cause a vast amount of trouble to your friend ; and I own I shall not be very well content until it be set right . ''
`` Indeed , sir , '' say I , `` these month be very easily fill up ; but yet before I tell my story , I would be glad to know that I be talk to a friend . ''
`` This be to argue in a circle , '' say the lawyer .
`` I can not be convince till I have hear you .
I can not be your friend till I be properly inform .
If you be more trustful , it would better befit your time of life .
And you know , Mr. Balfour , we have a proverb in the country that evil-doers be aye evil-dreaders . ''
`` You be not to forget , sir , '' say I , `` that I have already suffer by my trustfulness ; and be ship off to be a slave by the very man that -LRB- if I rightly understand -RRB- be your employer ? ''
All this while I have be gain ground with Mr. Rankeillor , and in proportion a I gain ground , gain confidence .
But at this sally , which I make with something of a smile myself , he fairly laugh aloud .
`` No , no , '' say he , `` it be not so bad a that .
Fui , non sum .
I be indeed your uncle 's man of business ; but while you -LRB- imberbis juvenis custode remoto -RRB- be gallivant in the west , a good deal of water have run under the bridge ; and if your ear do not sing , it be not for lack of be talk about .
On the very day of your sea disaster , Mr. Campbell stalk into my office , demand you from all the wind .
I have never hear of your existence ; but I have know your father ; and from matter in my competence -LRB- to be touch upon hereafter -RRB- I be dispose to fear the bad .
Mr. Ebenezer admit have see you ; declare -LRB- what seem improbable -RRB- that he have give you considerable sum ; and that you have start for the continent of Europe , intend to fulfil your education , which be probable and praiseworthy .
Interrogated how you have come to send no word to Mr. Campbell , he depone that you have express a great desire to break with your past life .
Further interrogate where you now be , protest ignorance , but believe you be in Leyden .
That be a close sum of his reply .
I be not exactly sure that any one believe him , '' continue Mr. Rankeillor with a smile ; `` and in particular he so much disrelished me expression of mine that -LRB- in a word -RRB- he show me to the door .
We be then at a full stand ; for whatever shrewd suspicion we might entertain , we have no shadow of probation .
In the very article , come Captain Hoseason with the story of your drowning ; whereupon all fell through ; with no consequence but concern to Mr. Campbell , injury to my pocket , and another blot upon your uncle 's character , which could very ill afford it .
And now , Mr. Balfour , '' say he , `` you understand the whole process of these matter , and can judge for yourself to what extent I may be trust . ''
Indeed he be more pedantic than I can represent him , and place more scrap of Latin in his speech ; but it be all uttered with a fine geniality of eye and manner which go far to conquer my distrust .
Moreover , I could see he now treat me a if I be myself beyond a doubt ; so that first point of my identity seem fully grant .
`` Sir , '' say I , `` if I tell you my story , I must commit a friend 's life to your discretion .
Pass me your word it shall be sacred ; and for what touch myself , I will ask no good guarantee than just your face . ''
He pass me his word very seriously .
`` But , '' say he , `` these be rather alarming prolocutions ; and if there be in your story any little jostle to the law , I would beg you to bear in mind that I be a lawyer , and pas lightly . ''
Thereupon I tell him my story from the first , he listen with his spectacle thrust up and his eye close , so that I sometimes fear he be asleep .
But no such matter !
he hear every word -LRB- a I find afterward -RRB- with such quickness of hearing and precision of memory a often surprise me .
Even strange outlandish Gaelic name , heard for that time only , he remember and would remind me of , year after .
Yet when I call Alan Breck in full , we have an odd scene .
The name of Alan have of course rung through Scotland , with the news of the Appin murder and the offer of the reward ; and it have no sooner escape me than the lawyer move in his seat and open his eye .
`` I would name no unnecessary name , Mr. Balfour , '' say he ; `` above all of Highlanders , many of whom be obnoxious to the law . ''
`` Well , it might have be well not , '' say I , `` but since I have let it slip , I may as well continue . ''
`` Not at all , '' say Mr. Rankeillor .
`` I be somewhat dull of hearing , a you may have remark ; and I be far from sure I catch the name exactly .
We will call your friend , if you please , Mr. Thomson -- that there may be no reflection .
And in future , I would take some such way with any Highlander that you may have to mention -- dead or alive . ''
By this , I saw he must have hear the name all too clearly , and have already guess I might be come to the murder .
If he choose to play this part of ignorance , it be no matter of mine ; so I smile , say it be no very Highland-sounding name , and consent .
Through all the rest of my story Alan be Mr. Thomson ; which amuse me the more , a it be a piece of policy after his own heart .
James Stewart , in like manner , be mention under the style of Mr. Thomson 's kinsman ; Colin Campbell pass a a Mr. Glen ; and to Cluny , when I come to that part of my tale , I give the name of `` Mr. Jameson , a Highland chief . ''
It be truly the most open farce , and I wonder that the lawyer should care to keep it up ; but , after all , it be quite in the taste of that age , when there be two party in the state , and quiet person , with no very high opinion of their own , seek out every cranny to avoid offence to either .
`` Well , well , '' say the lawyer , when I have quite do , `` this be a great epic , a great Odyssey of yours .
You must tell it , sir , in a sound Latinity when your scholarship be ripe ; or in English if you please , though for my part I prefer the strong tongue .
You have roll much ; quae regio in terris -- what parish in Scotland -LRB- to make a homely translation -RRB- have not be fill with your wandering ?
You have show , besides , a singular aptitude for get into false position ; and , yes , upon the whole , for behave well in them .
This Mr. Thomson seem to me a gentleman of some choice quality , though perhaps a trifle bloody-minded .
It would please me none the bad , if -LRB- with all his merit -RRB- he be souse in the North Sea , for the man , Mr. David , be a sore embarrassment .
But you be doubtless quite right to adhere to him ; indubitably , he adhere to you .
It come -- we may say -- he be your true companion ; nor less paribus curis vestigia figit , for I dare say you would both take an orra think upon the gallows .
Well , well , these day be fortunately by ; and I think -LRB- speak humanly -RRB- that you be near the end of your trouble . ''
As he thus moralise on my adventure , he look upon me with so much humour and benignity that I could scarce contain my satisfaction .
I have be so long wander with lawless people , and make my bed upon the hill and under the bare sky , that to sit once more in a clean , covered house , and to talk amicably with a gentleman in broadcloth , seem mighty elevation .
Even a I think so , my eye fell on my unseemly tatter , and I be once more plunged in confusion .
But the lawyer saw and understand me .
He rise , call over the stair to lay another plate , for Mr. Balfour would stay to dinner , and lead me into a bedroom in the upper part of the house .
Here he set before me water and soap , and a comb ; and lay out some clothes that belong to his son ; and here , with another apposite tag , he leave me to my toilet .
CHAPTER XXVIII I GO IN QUEST OF MY INHERITANCE I make what change I could in my appearance ; and blithe be I to look in the glass and find the beggarman a thing of the past , and David Balfour come to life again .
And yet I be ashamed of the change too , and , above all , of the borrow clothes .
When I have do , Mr. Rankeillor catch me on the stair , make me his compliment , and have me again into the cabinet .
`` Sit ye down , Mr. David , '' say he , `` and now that you be look a little more like yourself , let me see if I can find you any news .
You will be wonder , no doubt , about your father and your uncle ?
To be sure it be a singular tale ; and the explanation be one that I blush to have to offer you .
For , '' say he , really with embarrassment , `` the matter hinge on a love affair . ''
`` Truly , '' say I , `` I can not very well join that notion with my uncle . ''
`` But your uncle , Mr. David , be not always old , '' reply the lawyer , `` and what may perhaps surprise you more , not always ugly .
He have a fine , gallant air ; people stand in their door to look after him , a he go by upon a mettle horse .
I have see it with these eye , and I ingenuously confess , not altogether without envy ; for I be a plain lad myself and a plain man 's son ; and in those day it be a case of Odi te , qui bellus e , Sabelle . ''
`` It sound like a dream , '' say I . `` Ay , ay , '' say the lawyer , `` that be how it be with youth and age .
Nor be that all , but he have a spirit of his own that seem to promise great thing in the future .
In 1715 , what must he do but run away to join the rebel ?
It be your father that pursue him , find him in a ditch , and bring him back multum gementem ; to the mirth of the whole country .
However , majora canamus -- the two lad fell in love , and that with the same lady .
Mr. Ebenezer , who be the admired and the beloved , and the spoiled one , make , no doubt , mighty certain of the victory ; and when he find he have deceive himself , scream like a peacock .
The whole country heard of it ; now he lay sick at home , with his silly family stand round the bed in tear ; now he ride from public-house to public-house , and shout his sorrow into the lug of Tom , Dick , and Harry .
Your father , Mr. David , be a kind gentleman ; but he be weak , dolefully weak ; take all this folly with a long countenance ; and one day -- by your leave !
-- resign the lady .
She be no such fool , however ; it 's from her you must inherit your excellent good sense ; and she refuse to be bandy from one to another .
Both get upon their knee to her ; and the upshot of the matter for that while be that she show both of them the door .
That be in August ; dear me !
the same year I come from college .
The scene must have be highly farcical . ''
I think myself it be a silly business , but I could not forget my father have a hand in it .
`` Surely , sir , it have some note of tragedy , '' say I . `` Why , no , sir , not at all , '' return the lawyer .
`` For tragedy implies some ponderable matter in dispute , some dignus vindice nodus ; and this piece of work be all about the petulance of a young as that have be spoil , and want nothing so much a to be tie up and soundly belt .
However , that be not your father 's view ; and the end of it be , that from concession to concession on your father 's part , and from one height to another of squalling , sentimental selfishness upon your uncle 's , they come at last to drive a sort of bargain , from whose ill result you have recently be smart .
The one man take the lady , the other the estate .
Now , Mr. David , they talk a great deal of charity and generosity ; but in this disputable state of life , I often think the happy consequence seem to flow when a gentleman consult his lawyer , and take all the law allow him .
Anyhow , this piece of Quixotry on your father 's part , a it be unjust in itself , have bring forth a monstrous family of injustice .
Your father and mother live and die poor folk ; you be poorly rear ; and in the meanwhile , what a time it have be for the tenant on the estate of Shaws !
And I might add -LRB- if it be a matter I care much about -RRB- what a time for Mr. Ebenezer ! ''
`` And yet that be certainly the strange part of all , '' say I , `` that a man 's nature should thus change . ''
`` True , '' say Mr. Rankeillor .
`` And yet I imagine it be natural enough .
He could not think that he have play a handsome part .
Those who know the story give him the cold shoulder ; those who know it not , see one brother disappear , and the other succeed in the estate , raise a cry of murder ; so that upon all side he find himself evited .
Money be all he get by his bargain ; well , he come to think the more of money .
He be selfish when he be young , he be selfish now that he be old ; and the latter end of all these pretty manner and fine feeling you have see for yourself . ''
`` Well , sir , '' say I , `` and in all this , what be my position ? ''
`` The estate be yours beyond a doubt , '' reply the lawyer .
`` It matter nothing what your father sign , you be the heir of entail .
But your uncle be a man to fight the indefensible ; and it would be likely your identity that he would call in question .
A lawsuit be always expensive , and a family lawsuit always scandalous ; besides which , if any of your doings with your friend Mr. Thomson be to come out , we might find that we have burn our finger .
The kidnapping , to be sure , would be a court card upon our side , if we could only prove it .
But it may be difficult to prove ; and my advice -LRB- upon the whole -RRB- be to make a very easy bargain with your uncle , perhaps even leave him at Shaws where he have take root for a quarter of a century , and content yourself in the meanwhile with a fair provision . ''
I tell him I be very willing to be easy , and that to carry family concern before the public be a step from which I be naturally much averse .
In the meantime -LRB- think to myself -RRB- I begin to see the outline of that scheme on which we afterwards act .
`` The great affair , '' I ask , `` be to bring home to him the kidnapping ? ''
`` Surely , '' say Mr. Rankeillor , `` and if possible , out of court .
For mark you here , Mr. David : we could no doubt find some men of the Covenant who would swear to your reclusion ; but once they be in the box , we could no longer check their testimony , and some word of your friend Mr. Thomson must certainly crop out .
Which -LRB- from what you have let fall -RRB- I can not think to be desirable . ''
`` Well , sir , '' say I , `` here be my way of it . ''
And I open my plot to him .
`` But this would seem to involve my meet the man Thomson ? ''
say he , when I have do .
`` I think so , indeed , sir , '' say I . `` Dear doctor ! ''
cry he , rub his brow .
`` Dear doctor !
No , Mr. David , I be afraid your scheme be inadmissible .
I say nothing against your friend , Mr. Thomson : I know nothing against him ; and if I do -- mark this , Mr. David !
-- it would be my duty to lay hand on him .
Now I put it to you : be it wise to meet ?
He may have matter to his charge .
He may not have tell you all .
His name may not be even Thomson ! ''
cry the lawyer , twinkle ; `` for some of these fellow will pick up name by the roadside a another would gather haw . ''
`` You must be the judge , sir , '' say I .
But it be clear my plan have take hold upon his fancy , for he keep muse to himself till we be call to dinner and the company of Mrs. Rankeillor ; and that lady have scarce leave u again to ourselves and a bottle of wine , ere he be back harp on my proposal .
When and where be I to meet my friend Mr. Thomson ; be I sure of Mr. T. 's discretion ; suppose we could catch the old fox tripping , would I consent to such and such a term of an agreement -- these and the like question he keep ask at long interval , while he thoughtfully roll his wine upon his tongue .
When I have answer all of them , seemingly to his contentment , he fell into a still deep muse , even the claret be now forget .
Then he get a sheet of paper and a pencil , and set to work writing and weigh every word ; and at last touch a bell and have his clerk into the chamber .
`` Torrance , '' say he , `` I must have this write out fair against to-night ; and when it be do , you will be so kind a put on your hat and be ready to come along with this gentleman and me , for you will probably be want a a witness . ''
`` What , sir , '' cry I , as soon a the clerk be go , `` be you to venture it ? ''
`` Why , so it would appear , '' say he , fill his glass .
`` But let u speak no more of business .
The very sight of Torrance brings in my head a little droll matter of some year ago , when I have make a tryst with the poor oaf at the cross of Edinburgh .
Each have go his proper errand ; and when it come four o'clock , Torrance have be take a glass and do not know his master , and I , who have forget my spectacle , be so blind without them , that I give you my word I do not know my own clerk . ''
And thereupon he laugh heartily .
I say it be an odd chance , and smile out of politeness ; but what hold me all the afternoon in wonder , he keep return and dwell on this story , and tell it again with fresh detail and laughter ; so that I begin at last to be quite put out of countenance and feel ashamed for my friend 's folly .
Towards the time I have appoint with Alan , we set out from the house , Mr. Rankeillor and I arm in arm , and Torrance follow behind with the deed in his pocket and a covered basket in his hand .
All through the town , the lawyer be bow right and leave , and continually be button-holed by gentleman on matter of burgh or private business ; and I could see he be one greatly look up to in the county .
At last we be clear of the house , and begin to go along the side of the haven and towards the Hawes Inn and the Ferry pier , the scene of my misfortune .
I could not look upon the place without emotion , recall how many that have be there with me that day be now no more : Ransome take , I could hope , from the evil to come ; Shuan pass where I dare not follow him ; and the poor soul that have go down with the brig in her last plunge .
All these , and the brig herself , I have outlive ; and come through these hardship and fearful peril without scath .
My only thought should have be of gratitude ; and yet I could not behold the place without sorrow for others and a chill of recollected fear .
I be so thinking when , upon a sudden , Mr. Rankeillor cry out , clap his hand to his pocket , and begin to laugh .
`` Why , '' he cry , `` if this be not a farcical adventure !
After all that I say , I have forget my glass ! ''
At that , of course , I understand the purpose of his anecdote , and know that if he have leave his spectacle at home , it have be do on purpose , so that he might have the benefit of Alan 's help without the awkwardness of recognise him .
And indeed it be well think upon ; for now -LRB- suppose thing to go the very bad -RRB- how could Rankeillor swear to my friend 's identity , or how be make to bear damage evidence against myself ?
For all that , he have be a long while of find out his want , and have speak to and recognise a good few person a we come through the town ; and I have little doubt myself that he saw reasonably well .
As soon a we be past the Hawes -LRB- where I recognise the landlord smoke his pipe in the door , and be amaze to see him look no old -RRB- Mr. Rankeillor change the order of march , walk behind with Torrance and send me forward in the manner of a scout .
I go up the hill , whistle from time to time my Gaelic air ; and at length I have the pleasure to hear it answered and to see Alan rise from behind a bush .
He be somewhat dash in spirit , have pass a long day alone skulk in the county , and make but a poor meal in an alehouse near Dundas .
But at the mere sight of my clothes , he begin to brighten up ; and as soon a I have tell him in what a forward state our matter be and the part I look to him to play in what remain , he spring into a new man .
`` And that be a very good notion of yours , '' say he ; `` and I dare to say that you could lay your hand upon no good man to put it through than Alan Breck .
It be not a thing -LRB- mark ye -RRB- that any one could do , but take a gentleman of penetration .
But it stick in my head your lawyer-man will be somewhat weary to see me , '' say Alan .
Accordingly I cry and wave on Mr. Rankeillor , who come up alone and be present to my friend , Mr. Thomson .
`` Mr. Thomson , I be pleased to meet you , '' say he .
`` But I have forget my glass ; and our friend , Mr. David here '' -LRB- clap me on the shoulder -RRB- , `` will tell you that I be little good than blind , and that you must not be surprised if I pass you by to-morrow . ''
This he say , think that Alan would be please ; but the Highlandman 's vanity be ready to startle at a less matter than that .
`` Why , sir , '' say he , stiffly , `` I would say it matter the le a we be meet here for a particular end , to see justice do to Mr. Balfour ; and by what I can see , not very likely to have much else in common .
But I accept your apology , which be a very proper one to make . ''
`` And that be more than I could look for , Mr. Thomson , '' say Rankeillor , heartily .
`` And now a you and I be the chief actor in this enterprise , I think we should come into a nice agreement ; to which end , I propose that you should lend me your arm , for -LRB- what with the dusk and the want of my glass -RRB- I be not very clear a to the path ; and a for you , Mr. David , you will find Torrance a pleasant kind of body to speak with .
Only let me remind you , it 's quite needless he should hear more of your adventure or those of -- ahem -- Mr. Thomson . ''
Accordingly these two go on ahead in very close talk , and Torrance and I bring up the rear .
Night be quite come when we come in view of the house of Shaws .
Ten have be go some time ; it be dark and mild , with a pleasant , rustle wind in the south-west that cover the sound of our approach ; and a we draw near we saw no glimmer of light in any portion of the building .
It seem my uncle be already in bed , which be indeed the best thing for our arrangement .
We make our last whispered consultation some fifty yard away ; and then the lawyer and Torrance and I creep quietly up and crouch down beside the corner of the house ; and as soon a we be in our place , Alan stride to the door without concealment and begin to knock .
CHAPTER XXIX I COME INTO MY KINGDOM For some time Alan volley upon the door , and his knock only rouse the echo of the house and neighbourhood .
At last , however , I could hear the noise of a window gently thrust up , and know that my uncle have come to his observatory .
By what light there be , he would see Alan stand , like a dark shadow , on the step ; the three witness be hide quite out of his view ; so that there be nothing to alarm an honest man in his own house .
For all that , he study his visitor awhile in silence , and when he speak his voice have a quaver of misgiving .
`` What 's this ? ''
say he .
`` This be nae kind of time of night for decent folk ; and I hae nae trokings * wi ' night-hawks .
What bring ye here ?
I have a blunderbush . ''
* Dealings .
`` Is that yoursel ' , Mr. Balfour ? ''
return Alan , step back and look up into the darkness .
`` Have a care of that blunderbuss ; they 're nasty thing to burst . ''
`` What bring ye here ?
and whae be ye ? ''
say my uncle , angrily .
`` I have no manner of inclination to rowt out my name to the country-side , '' say Alan ; `` but what bring me here be another story , be more of your affair than mine ; and if ye 're sure it 's what ye would like , I 'll set it to a tune and sing it to you . ''
`` And what be ` t ? ''
ask my uncle .
`` David , '' say Alan .
`` What be that ? ''
cry my uncle , in a mighty change voice .
`` Shall I give ye the rest of the name , then ? ''
say Alan .
There be a pause ; and then , `` I 'm think I 'll well let ye in , '' say my uncle , doubtfully .
`` I dare say that , '' say Alan ; `` but the point be , Would I go ?
Now I will tell you what I be think .
I be think that it be here upon this doorstep that we must confer upon this business ; and it shall be here or nowhere at all whatever ; for I would have you to understand that I be as stiffnecked a yoursel ' , and a gentleman of good family . ''
This change of note disconcert Ebenezer ; he be a little while digest it , and then say he , `` Weel , weel , what must be must , '' and shut the window .
But it take him a long time to get down-stairs , and a still longer to undo the fastening , repent -LRB- I dare say -RRB- and take with fresh clap of fear at every second step and every bolt and bar .
At last , however , we hear the creak of the hinge , and it seem my uncle slip gingerly out and -LRB- see that Alan have step back a pace or two -RRB- sate him down on the top doorstep with the blunderbuss ready in his hand .
`` And , now '' say he , `` mind I have my blunderbush , and if ye take a step nearer ye 're as good a deid . ''
`` And a very civil speech , '' say Alan , `` to be sure . ''
`` Na , '' say my uncle , `` but this be no a very chanty kind of a proceeding , and I 'm bound to be prepare .
And now that we understand each other , ye 'll can name your business . ''
`` Why , '' say Alan , `` you that be a man of so much understanding , will doubtless have perceive that I be a Hieland gentleman .
My name have nae business in my story ; but the county of my friend be no very far from the Isle of Mull , of which ye will have hear .
It seem there be a ship lose in those part ; and the next day a gentleman of my family be seek wreck-wood for his fire along the sand , when he come upon a lad that be half drown .
Well , he bring him to ; and he and some other gentleman take and clap him in an auld , ruin castle , where from that day to this he have be a great expense to my friend .
My friend be a wee wild-like , and not so particular about the law a some that I could name ; and find that the lad own some decent folk , and be your born nephew , Mr. Balfour , they ask me to give ye a bit call and confer upon the matter .
And I may tell ye at the off-go , unless we can agree upon some term , ye be little likely to set eye upon him .
For my friend , '' add Alan , simply , `` be no very well off . ''
My uncle clear his throat .
`` I 'm no very caring , '' say he .
`` He wasnae a good lad at the best of it , and I 've nae call to interfere . ''
`` Ay , ay , '' say Alan , `` I see what ye would be at : pretending ye do n't care , to make the ransom small . ''
`` Na , '' say my uncle , `` it 's the mere truth .
I take nae manner of interest in the lad , and I 'll pay nae ransome , and ye can make a kirk and a mill of him for what I care . ''
`` Hoot , sir , '' say Alan .
`` Blood 's thicker than water , in the deil 's name !
Ye cannae desert your brother 's son for the fair shame of it ; and if ye do , and it come to be kennt , ye wouldnae be very popular in your country-side , or I 'm the more deceived . ''
`` I 'm no just very popular the way it be , '' return Ebenezer ; `` and I dinnae see how it would come to be kennt .
No by me , onyway ; nor yet by you or your friend .
So that 's idle talk , my buckie , '' say he .
`` Then it 'll have to be David that tell it , '' say Alan .
`` How that ? ''
say my uncle , sharply .
`` Ou , just this way , '' say Alan .
`` My friend would doubtless keep your nephew as long a there be any likelihood of siller to be make of it , but if there be nane , I be clearly of opinion they would let him gang where he please , and be damn to him ! ''
`` Ay , but I 'm no very care about that either , '' say my uncle .
`` I wouldnae be muckle make up with that . ''
`` I be think that , '' say Alan .
`` And what for why ? ''
ask Ebenezer .
`` Why , Mr. Balfour , '' reply Alan , `` by all that I could hear , there be two way of it : either ye like David and would pay to get him back ; or else ye have very good reason for not want him , and would pay for u to keep him .
It seem it 's not the first ; well then , it 's the second ; and blythe be I to ken it , for it should be a pretty penny in my pocket and the pocket of my friend . ''
`` I dinnae follow ye there , '' say my uncle .
`` No ? ''
say Alan .
`` Well , see here : you dinnae want the lad back ; well , what do ye want do with him , and how much will ye pay ? ''
My uncle make no answer , but shift uneasily on his seat .
`` Come , sir , '' cry Alan .
`` I would have you to ken that I be a gentleman ; I bear a king 's name ; I be nae rider to kick my shank at your hall door .
Either give me an answer in civility , and that out of hand ; or by the top of Glencoe , I will ram three foot of iron through your vitals . ''
`` Eh , man , '' cry my uncle , scramble to his foot , `` give me a meenit !
What 's like wrong with ye ?
I 'm just a plain man and nae dancing master ; and I 'm tryin to be as ceevil a it 's morally possible .
As for that wild talk , it 's fair disrepitable .
Vitals , say you !
And where would I be with my blunderbush ? ''
he snarl .
`` Powder and your auld hand be but a the snail to the swallow against the bright steel in the hand of Alan , '' say the other .
`` Before your jottering finger could find the trigger , the hilt would dirl on your breast-bane . ''
`` Eh , man , whae 's deny it ? ''
say my uncle .
`` Pit it a ye please , hae ' t your ain way ; I 'll do naething to cross ye .
Just tell me what like ye 'll be want , and ye 'll see that we 'll can agree fine . ''
`` Troth , sir , '' say Alan , `` I ask for nothing but plain dealing .
In two word : do ye want the lad kill or keep ? ''
`` O , sir ! ''
cried Ebenezer .
`` O , sir , me !
that 's no kind of language ! ''
`` Killed or keep ! ''
repeat Alan .
`` O , keepit , keepit ! ''
wail my uncle .
`` We 'll have nae bloodshed , if you please . ''
`` Well , '' say Alan , `` a ye please ; that 'll be the dearer . ''
`` The dearer ? ''
cry Ebenezer .
`` Would ye fyle your hand wi ' crime ? ''
`` Hoot ! ''
say Alan , `` they 're baith crime , whatever !
And the killing 's easy , and quicker , and surer .
Keeping the lad 'll be a fashious * job , a fashious , kittle business . ''
* Troublesome .
`` I 'll have him keepit , though , '' return my uncle .
`` I never have naething to do with onything morally wrong ; and I 'm no gaun to begin to pleasure a wild Hielandman . ''
`` Ye 're unco scrupulous , '' sneer Alan .
`` I 'm a man o ' principle , '' say Ebenezer , simply ; `` and if I have to pay for it , I 'll have to pay for it .
And besides , '' say he , `` ye forget the lad 's my brother 's son . ''
`` Well , well , '' say Alan , `` and now about the price .
It 's no very easy for me to set a name upon it ; I would first have to ken some small matter .
I would have to ken , for instance , what ye give Hoseason at the first off-go ? ''
`` Hoseason ! ''
cry my uncle , strike aback .
`` What for ? ''
`` For kidnapping David , '' say Alan .
`` It 's a lee , it 's a black lee ! ''
cry my uncle .
`` He be never kidnap .
He leed in his throat that tauld ye that .
Kidnapped ?
He never be ! ''
`` That 's no fault of mine nor yet of yours , '' say Alan ; `` nor yet of Hoseason 's , if he 's a man that can be trust . ''
`` What do ye mean ? ''
cried Ebenezer .
`` Did Hoseason tell ye ? ''
`` Why , ye donnered auld runt , how else would I ken ? ''
cry Alan .
`` Hoseason and me be partner ; we gang share ; so ye can see for yoursel ' what good ye can do leeing .
And I must plainly say ye drive a fool 's bargain when ye let a man like the sailor-man so far forward in your private matter .
But that 's past praying for ; and ye must lie on your bed the way ye make it .
And the point in hand be just this : what do ye pay him ? ''
`` Has he tauld ye himsel ' ? ''
ask my uncle .
`` That 's my concern , '' say Alan .
`` Weel , '' say my uncle , `` I dinnae care what he say , he leed , and the solemn God 's truth be this , that I give him twenty pound .
But I 'll be perfec ` ly honest with ye : forby that , he be to have the selling of the lad in Caroliny , whilk would be a muckle mair , but no from my pocket , ye see . ''
`` Thank you , Mr. Thomson .
That will do excellently well , '' say the lawyer , step forward ; and then mighty civilly , `` Good-evening , Mr. Balfour , '' say he .
And , `` Good-evening , Uncle Ebenezer , '' say I . And , `` It 's a braw nicht , Mr. Balfour , '' add Torrance .
Never a word say my uncle , neither black nor white ; but just sit where he be on the top door-step and star upon u like a man turn to stone .
Alan filch away his blunderbuss ; and the lawyer , take him by the arm , pluck him up from the doorstep , lead him into the kitchen , whither we all follow , and set him down in a chair beside the hearth , where the fire be out and only a rush-light burning .
There we all look upon him for a while , exult greatly in our success , but yet with a sort of pity for the man 's shame .
`` Come , come , Mr. Ebenezer , '' say the lawyer , `` you must not be down-hearted , for I promise you we shall make easy term .
In the meanwhile give u the cellar key , and Torrance shall draw u a bottle of your father 's wine in honour of the event . ''
Then , turn to me and take me by the hand , `` Mr. David , '' say he , `` I wish you all joy in your good fortune , which I believe to be deserve . ''
And then to Alan , with a spice of drollery , `` Mr. Thomson , I pay you my compliment ; it be most artfully conduct ; but in one point you somewhat outran my comprehension .
Do I understand your name to be James ?
or Charles ?
or be it George , perhaps ? ''
`` And why should it be any of the three , sir ? ''
quoth Alan , draw himself up , like one who smelt an offence .
`` Only , sir , that you mention a king 's name , '' reply Rankeillor ; `` and a there have never yet be a King Thomson , or his fame at least have never come my way , I judge you must refer to that you have in baptism . ''
This be just the stab that Alan would feel keen , and I be free to confess he take it very ill .
Not a word would he answer , but step off to the far end of the kitchen , and sit down and sulk ; and it be not till I step after him , and give him my hand , and thank him by title a the chief spring of my success , that he begin to smile a bit , and be at last prevailed upon to join our party .
By that time we have the fire light , and a bottle of wine uncork ; a good supper come out of the basket , to which Torrance and I and Alan set ourselves down ; while the lawyer and my uncle pass into the next chamber to consult .
They stay there closet about an hour ; at the end of which period they have come to a good understanding , and my uncle and I set our hand to the agreement in a formal manner .
By the term of this , my uncle bound himself to satisfy Rankeillor a to his intromission , and to pay me two clear third of the yearly income of Shaws .
So the beggar in the ballad have come home ; and when I lay down that night on the kitchen chests , I be a man of mean and have a name in the country .
Alan and Torrance and Rankeillor slept and snore on their hard bed ; but for me who have lie out under heaven and upon dirt and stone , so many day and night , and often with an empty belly , and in fear of death , this good change in my case unman me more than any of the former evil one ; and I lay till dawn , look at the fire on the roof and plan the future .
CHAPTER XXX GOOD-BYE So far a I be concern myself , I have come to port ; but I have still Alan , to whom I be so much beholden , on my hand ; and I felt besides a heavy charge in the matter of the murder and James of the Glens .
On both these head I unbosom to Rankeillor the next morning , walk to and fro about six of the clock before the house of Shaws , and with nothing in view but the field and wood that have be my ancestor ' and be now mine .
Even a I speak on these grave subject , my eye would take a glad bit of a run over the prospect , and my heart jump with pride .
About my clear duty to my friend , the lawyer have no doubt .
I must help him out of the county at whatever risk ; but in the case of James , he be of a different mind .
`` Mr. Thomson , '' say he , `` be one thing , Mr. Thomson 's kinsman quite another .
I know little of the fact , but I gather that a great noble -LRB- whom we will call , if you like , the D. of A . -RRB- * have some concern and be even suppose to feel some animosity in the matter .
The D. of A. be doubtless an excellent nobleman ; but , Mr. David , timeo qui nocuere deos .
If you interfere to balk his vengeance , you should remember there be one way to shut your testimony out ; and that be to put you in the dock .
There , you would be in the same pickle a Mr. Thomson 's kinsman .
You will object that you be innocent ; well , but so be he .
And to be try for your life before a Highland jury , on a Highland quarrel and with a Highland Judge upon the bench , would be a brief transition to the gallows . ''
* The Duke of Argyle .
Now I have make all these reasoning before and find no very good reply to them ; so I put on all the simplicity I could .
`` In that case , sir , '' say I , `` I would just have to be hang -- would I not ? ''
`` My dear boy , '' cry he , `` go in God 's name , and do what you think be right .
It be a poor thought that at my time of life I should be advise you to choose the safe and shameful ; and I take it back with an apology .
Go and do your duty ; and be hang , if you must , like a gentleman .
There be bad thing in the world than to be hang . ''
`` Not many , sir , '' say I , smile .
`` Why , yes , sir , '' he cry , `` very many .
And it would be ten time well for your uncle -LRB- to go no far afield -RRB- if he be dangle decently upon a gibbet . ''
Thereupon he turn into the house -LRB- still in a great fervour of mind , so that I saw I have please him heartily -RRB- and there he write me two letter , make his comment on them a he write .
`` This , '' say he , `` be to my banker , the British Linen Company , place a credit to your name .
Consult Mr. Thomson , he will know of way ; and you , with this credit , can supply the mean .
I trust you will be a good husband of your money ; but in the affair of a friend like Mr. Thomson , I would be even prodigal .
Then for his kinsman , there be no good way than that you should seek the Advocate , tell him your tale , and offer testimony ; whether he may take it or not , be quite another matter , and will turn on the D. of A . Now , that you may reach the Lord Advocate well recommend , I give you here a letter to a namesake of your own , the learned Mr. Balfour of Pilrig , a man whom I esteem .
It will look good that you should be present by one of your own name ; and the laird of Pilrig be much look up to in the Faculty and stand well with Lord Advocate Grant .
I would not trouble him , if I be you , with any particular ; and -LRB- do you know ? -RRB-
I think it would be needless to refer to Mr. Thomson .
Form yourself upon the laird , he be a good model ; when you deal with the Advocate , be discreet ; and in all these matter , may the Lord guide you , Mr. David ! ''
Thereupon he take his farewell , and set out with Torrance for the Ferry , while Alan and I turn our face for the city of Edinburgh .
As we go by the footpath and beside the gatepost and the unfinished lodge , we keep look back at the house of my father .
It stand there , bare and great and smokeless , like a place not live in ; only in one of the top window , there be the peak of a nightcap bob up and down and back and forward , like the head of a rabbit from a burrow .
I have little welcome when I come , and less kindness while I stay ; but at least I be watch a I go away .
Alan and I go slowly forward upon our way , have little heart either to walk or speak .
The same thought be uppermost in both , that we be near the time of our parting ; and remembrance of all the bygone day sate upon u sorely .
We talk indeed of what should be do ; and it be resolve that Alan should keep to the county , bid now here , now there , but come once in the day to a particular place where I might be able to communicate with him , either in my own person or by messenger .
In the meanwhile , I be to seek out a lawyer , who be an Appin Stewart , and a man therefore to be wholly trust ; and it should be his part to find a ship and to arrange for Alan 's safe embarkation .
No sooner be this business do , than the word seem to leave u ; and though I would seek to jest with Alan under the name of Mr. Thomson , and he with me on my new clothes and my estate , you could feel very well that we be near tear than laughter .
We come the by-way over the hill of Corstorphine ; and when we get near to the place call Rest-and-be-Thankful , and look down on Corstorphine bog and over to the city and the castle on the hill , we both stop , for we both know without a word say that we have come to where our way part .
Here he repeat to me once again what have be agree upon between u : the address of the lawyer , the daily hour at which Alan might be find , and the signal that be to be make by any that come seek him .
Then I give what money I have -LRB- a guinea or two of Rankeillor 's -RRB- so that he should not starve in the meanwhile ; and then we stand a space , and look over at Edinburgh in silence .
`` Well , good-bye , '' say Alan , and hold out his left hand .
`` Good-bye , '' say I , and give the hand a little grasp , and go off down hill .
Neither one of u look the other in the face , nor so long a he be in my view do I take one back glance at the friend I be leave .
But a I go on my way to the city , I felt so lose and lonesome , that I could have find it in my heart to sit down by the dyke , and cry and weep like any baby .
It be come near noon when I pass in by the West Kirk and the Grassmarket into the street of the capital .
The huge height of the building , run up to ten and fifteen storey , the narrow arched entry that continually vomit passenger , the ware of the merchant in their window , the hubbub and endless stir , the foul smell and the fine clothes , and a hundred other particular too small to mention , strike me into a kind of stupor of surprise , so that I let the crowd carry me to and fro ; and yet all the time what I be think of be Alan at Rest-and-be-Thankful ; and all the time -LRB- although you would think I would not choose but be delight with these braws and novelty -RRB- there be a cold gnawing in my inside like a remorse for something wrong .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Robert_Louis_Stevenson___The_Black_Arrow.txt.out
PROLOGUE -- JOHN AMEND-ALL On a certain afternoon , in the late springtime , the bell upon Tunstall Moat House be hear ring at an unaccustomed hour .
Far and near , in the forest and in the field along the river , people begin to desert their labour and hurry towards the sound ; and in Tunstall hamlet a group of poor country-folk stood wondering at the summons .
Tunstall hamlet at that period , in the reign of old King Henry VI . , wore much the same appearance a it wear to-day .
A score or so of house , heavily frame with oak , stand scatter in a long green valley ascend from the river .
At the foot , the road cross a bridge , and mount on the other side , disappear into the fringe of the forest on it way to the Moat House , and far forth to Holywood Abbey .
Half-way up the village , the church stand among yew .
On every side the slope be crown and the view bound by the green elm and green oak-trees of the forest .
Hard by the bridge , there be a stone cross upon a knoll , and here the group have collect -- half a dozen woman and one tall fellow in a russet smock -- discuss what the bell betide .
An express have go through the hamlet half an hour before , and drink a pot of ale in the saddle , not dare to dismount for the hurry of his errand ; but he have be ignorant himself of what be forward , and only bore sealed letter from Sir Daniel Brackley to Sir Oliver Oates , the parson , who keep the Moat House in the master 's absence .
But now there be the noise of a horse ; and soon , out of the edge of the wood and over the echo bridge , there ride up young Master Richard Shelton , Sir Daniel 's ward .
He , at the least , would know , and they hail him and beg him to explain .
He draw bridle willingly enough -- a young fellow not yet eighteen , sun-browned and grey-eyed , in a jacket of deer 's leather , with a black velvet collar , a green hood upon his head , and a steel cross-bow at his back .
The express , it appear , have bring great news .
A battle be impend .
Sir Daniel have send for every man that could draw a bow or carry a bill to go post-haste to Kettley , under pain of his severe displeasure ; but for whom they be to fight , or of where the battle be expect , Dick know nothing .
Sir Oliver would come shortly himself , and Bennet Hatch be arm at that moment , for he it be who should lead the party .
`` It be the ruin of this kind land , '' a woman say .
`` If the baron live at war , ploughfolk must eat root . ''
`` Nay , '' say Dick , `` every man that follow shall have sixpence a day , and archer twelve . ''
`` If they live , '' return the woman , `` that may very well be ; but how if they die , my master ? ''
`` They can not better die than for their natural lord , '' say Dick .
`` No natural lord of mine , '' say the man in the smock .
`` I follow the Walsinghams ; so we all do down Brierly way , till two year ago , come Candlemas .
And now I must side with Brackley !
It be the law that do it ; call ye that natural ?
But now , what with Sir Daniel and what with Sir Oliver -- that know more of law than honesty -- I have no natural lord but poor King Harry the Sixt , God bless him !
-- the poor innocent that can not tell his right hand from his left . ''
`` Ye speak with an ill tongue , friend , '' answer Dick , `` to miscall your good master and my lord the king in the same libel .
But King Harry -- praise be the saint !
-- have come again into his right mind , and will have all thing peaceably ordain .
And a for Sir Daniel , y ' be very brave behind his back .
But I will be no tale-bearer ; and let that suffice . ''
`` I say no harm of you , Master Richard , '' return the peasant .
`` Y ' be a lad ; but when ye come to a man 's inch , ye will find ye have an empty pocket .
I say no more : the saint help Sir Daniel 's neighbour , and the Blessed Maid protect his ward ! ''
`` Clipsby , '' say Richard , `` you speak what I can not hear with honour .
Sir Daniel be my good master , and my guardian . ''
`` Come , now , will ye read me a riddle ? ''
return Clipsby .
`` On whose side be Sir Daniel ? ''
`` I know not , '' say Dick , colour a little ; for his guardian have change side continually in the trouble of that period , and every change have bring him some increase of fortune .
`` Ay , '' return Clipsby , `` you , nor no man .
For , indeed , he be one that go to bed Lancaster and get up York . ''
Just then the bridge rang under horse-shoe iron , and the party turn and saw Bennet Hatch come galloping -- a brown-faced , grizzle fellow , heavy of hand and grim of mien , arm with sword and spear , a steel salet on his head , a leather jack upon his body .
He be a great man in these part ; Sir Daniel 's right hand in peace and war , and at that time , by his master 's interest , bailiff of the hundred .
`` Clipsby , '' he shout , `` off to the Moat House , and send all other laggard the same gate .
Bowyer will give you jack and salet .
We must ride before curfew .
Look to it : he that be last at the lych-gate Sir Daniel shall reward .
Look to it right well !
I know you for a man of naught .
Nance , '' he add , to one of the woman , `` be old Appleyard up town ? ''
`` I 'll warrant you , '' reply the woman .
`` In his field , for sure . ''
So the group disperse , and while Clipsby walk leisurely over the bridge , Bennet and young Shelton ride up the road together , through the village and past the church .
`` Ye will see the old shrew , '' say Bennet .
`` He will waste more time grumbling and prating of Harry the Fift than would serve a man to shoe a horse .
And all because he have be to the French war ! ''
The house to which they be bind be the last in the village , stand alone among lilacs ; and beyond it , on three side , there be open meadow rise towards the border of the wood .
Hatch dismount , throw his rein over the fence , and walk down the field , Dick keep close at his elbow , to where the old soldier be dig , knee-deep in his cabbage , and now and again , in a cracked voice , sing a snatch of song .
He be all dress in leather , only his hood and tippet be of black frieze , and tie with scarlet ; his face be like a walnut-shell , both for colour and wrinkle ; but his old grey eye be still clear enough , and his sight unabated .
Perhaps he be deaf ; perhaps he think it unworthy of an old archer of Agincourt to pay any heed to such disturbance ; but neither the surly note of the alarm bell , nor the near approach of Bennet and the lad , appear at all to move him ; and he continue obstinately dig , and pip up , very thin and shaky : `` Now , dear lady , if thy will be , I pray you that you will rue on me . ''
`` Nick Appleyard , '' say Hatch , `` Sir Oliver commend him to you , and bid that ye shall come within this hour to the Moat House , there to take command . ''
The old fellow look up .
`` Save you , my master ! ''
he say , grin .
`` And where goeth Master Hatch ? ''
`` Master Hatch be off to Kettley , with every man that we can horse , '' return Bennet .
`` There be a fight toward , it seem , and my lord stay a reinforcement . ''
`` Ay , verily , '' return Appleyard .
`` And what will ye leave me to garrison withal ? ''
`` I leave you six good men , and Sir Oliver to boot , '' answer Hatch .
`` It 'll not hold the place , '' say Appleyard ; `` the number sufficeth not .
It would take two score to make it good . ''
`` Why , it 's for that we come to you , old shrew ! ''
reply the other .
`` Who else be there but you that could do aught in such a house with such a garrison ? ''
`` Ay !
when the pinch come , ye remember the old shoe , '' return Nick .
`` There be not a man of you can back a horse or hold a bill ; and a for archery -- St. Michael !
if old Harry the Fift be back again , he would stand and let ye shoot at him for a farthen a shoot ! ''
`` Nay , Nick , there 's some can draw a good bow yet , '' say Bennet .
`` Draw a good bow ! ''
cry Appleyard .
`` Yes !
But who 'll shoot me a good shoot ?
It 's there the eye come in , and the head between your shoulder .
Now , what might you call a long shoot , Bennet Hatch ? ''
`` Well , '' say Bennet , look about him , `` it would be a long shoot from here into the forest . ''
`` Ay , it would be a longish shoot , '' say the old fellow , turn to look over his shoulder ; and then he put up his hand over his eye , and stand staring .
`` Why , what be you look at ? ''
ask Bennet , with a chuckle .
`` Do , you see Harry the Fift ? ''
The veteran continue look up the hill in silence .
The sun shone broadly over the shelving meadow ; a few white sheep wander browsing ; all be still but the distant jangle of the bell .
`` What be it , Appleyard ? ''
ask Dick .
`` Why , the bird , '' say Appleyard .
And , sure enough , over the top of the forest , where it run down in a tongue among the meadow , and end in a pair of goodly green elm , about a bowshot from the field where they be stand , a flight of bird be skim to and fro , in evident disorder .
`` What of the bird ? ''
say Bennet .
`` Ay ! ''
return Appleyard , `` y ' be a wise man to go to war , Master Bennet .
Birds be a good sentry ; in forest place they be the first line of battle .
Look you , now , if we lay here in camp , there might be archer skulk down to get the wind of u ; and here would you be , none the wiser ! ''
`` Why , old shrew , '' say Hatch , `` there be no men nearer u than Sir Daniel 's , at Kettley ; y ' be as safe a in London Tower ; and ye raise scare upon a man for a few chaffinch and sparrows ! ''
`` Hear him ! ''
grin Appleyard .
`` How many a rogue would give his two crop ear to have a shoot at either of u ?
Saint Michael , man !
they hate u like two polecat ! ''
`` Well , sooth it be , they hate Sir Daniel , '' answer Hatch , a little sobered .
`` Ay , they hate Sir Daniel , and they hate every man that serve with him , '' say Appleyard ; `` and in the first order of hat , they hate Bennet Hatch and old Nicholas the bowman .
See ye here : if there be a stout fellow yonder in the wood-edge , and you and I stand fair for him -- a , by Saint George , we stand !
-- which , think ye , would he choose ? ''
`` You , for a good wager , '' answer Hatch .
`` My surcoat to a leather belt , it would be you ! ''
cry the old archer .
`` Ye burn Grimstone , Bennet -- they 'll ne'er forgive you that , my master .
And a for me , I 'll soon be in a good place , God grant , and out of bow-shoot -- ay , and cannon-shoot -- of all their malice .
I be an old man , and draw fast to homeward , where the bed be ready .
But for you , Bennet , y ' be to remain behind here at your own peril , and if ye come to my year unhanged , the old true-blue English spirit will be dead . ''
`` Y ' be the shrewish old dolt in Tunstall Forest , '' return Hatch , visibly ruffle by these threat .
`` Get ye to your arm before Sir Oliver come , and leave prate for one good while .
An ye have talk so much with Harry the Fift , his ear would ha ' be rich than his pocket . ''
An arrow sang in the air , like a huge hornet ; it strike old Appleyard between the shoulder-blades , and pierce him clean through , and he fell forward on his face among the cabbage .
Hatch , with a broken cry , leapt into the air ; then , stoop double , he run for the cover of the house .
And in the meanwhile Dick Shelton have drop behind a lilac , and have his crossbow bent and shoulder , cover the point of the forest .
Not a leaf stir .
The sheep be patiently browse ; the bird have settle .
But there lay the old man , with a cloth-yard arrow stand in his back ; and there be Hatch hold to the gable , and Dick crouching and ready behind the lilac bush .
`` D 'ye see aught ? ''
cry Hatch .
`` Not a twig stir , '' say Dick .
`` I think shame to leave him lie , '' say Bennet , come forward once more with hesitate step and a very pale countenance .
`` Keep a good eye on the wood , Master Shelton -- keep a clear eye on the wood .
The saint assoil u !
here be a good shoot ! ''
Bennet raise the old archer on his knee .
He be not yet dead ; his face work , and his eye shut and open like machinery , and he have a most horrible , ugly look of one in pain .
`` Can ye hear , old Nick ? ''
ask Hatch .
`` Have ye a last wish before ye wend , old brother ? ''
`` Pluck out the shaft , and let me pass , a ' Mary 's name ! ''
gasp Appleyard .
`` I be do with Old England .
Pluck it out ! ''
`` Master Dick , '' say Bennet , `` come hither , and pull me a good pull upon the arrow .
He would fain pas , the poor sinner . ''
Dick lay down his cross-bow , and pull hard upon the arrow , draw it forth .
A gush of blood follow ; the old archer scramble half upon his foot , call once upon the name of God , and then fell dead .
Hatch , upon his knee among the cabbage , pray fervently for the welfare of the passing spirit .
But even a he pray , it be plain that his mind be still divide , and he keep ever an eye upon the corner of the wood from which the shot have come .
When he have do , he get to his foot again , draw off one of his mailed gauntlet , and wipe his pale face , which be all wet with terror .
`` Ay , '' he say , `` it 'll be my turn next . ''
`` Who hath do this , Bennet ? ''
Richard ask , still hold the arrow in his hand .
`` Nay , the saint know , '' say Hatch .
`` Here be a good two score Christian soul that we have hunt out of house and holding , he and I .
He have pay his shot , poor shrew , nor will it be long , mayhap , ere I pay mine .
Sir Daniel driveth over-hard . ''
`` This be a strange shaft , '' say the lad , look at the arrow in his hand .
`` Ay , by my faith ! ''
cried Bennet .
`` Black , and black-feathered .
Here be an ill-favoured shaft , by my sooth !
for black , they say , bodes burial .
And here be word write .
Wipe the blood away .
What read ye ? '' '' '
Appulyaird fro Jon Amend-All , ' '' read Shelton .
`` What should this betoken ? ''
`` Nay , I like it not , '' return the retainer , shake his head .
`` John Amend-All !
Here be a rogue 's name for those that be up in the world !
But why stand we here to make a mark ?
Take him by the knee , good Master Shelton , while I lift him by the shoulder , and let u lay him in his house .
This will be a rare shog to poor Sir Oliver ; he will turn paper colour ; he will pray like a windmill . ''
They take up the old archer , and carry him between them into his house , where he have dwell alone .
And there they lay him on the floor , out of regard for the mattress , and sought , a best they might , to straighten and compose his limb .
Appleyard 's house be clean and bare .
There be a bed , with a blue cover , a cupboard , a great chest , a pair of joint-stools , a hinge table in the chimney corner , and hung upon the wall the old soldier 's armoury of bow and defensive armour .
Hatch begin to look about him curiously .
`` Nick have money , '' he say .
`` He may have have three score pound put by .
I would I could light upo n't !
When ye lose an old friend , Master Richard , the best consolation be to heir him .
See , now , this chest .
I would go a mighty wager there be a bushel of gold therein .
He have a strong hand to get , and a hard hand to keep withal , have Appleyard the archer .
Now may God rest his spirit !
Near eighty year he be afoot and about , and ever get ; but now he 's on the broad of his back , poor shrew , and no more lacketh ; and if his chattel come to a good friend , he would be merry , methinks , in heaven . ''
`` Come , Hatch , '' say Dick , `` respect his stone-blind eye .
Would ye rob the man before his body ?
Nay , he would walk ! ''
Hatch make several sign of the cross ; but by this time his natural complexion have return , and he be not easily to be dash from any purpose .
It would have go hard with the chest have not the gate sound , and presently after the door of the house open and admit a tall , portly , ruddy , black-eyed man of near fifty , in a surplice and black robe .
`` Appleyard '' -- the newcomer be say , a he enter ; but he stop dead .
`` Ave Maria ! ''
he cry .
`` Saints be our shield !
What cheer be this ? ''
`` Cold cheer with Appleyard , sir parson , '' answer Hatch , with perfect cheerfulness .
`` Shot at his own door , and alighteth even now at purgatory gate .
Ay !
there , if tale be true , he shall lack neither coal nor candle . ''
Sir Oliver grope his way to a joint-stool , and sit down upon it , sick and white .
`` This be a judgment !
O , a great stroke ! ''
he sob , and rattle off a leash of prayer .
Hatch meanwhile reverently doff his salet and kneel down .
`` Ay , Bennet , '' say the priest , somewhat recover , `` and what may this be ?
What enemy hath do this ? ''
`` Here , Sir Oliver , be the arrow .
See , it be write upon with word , '' say Dick .
`` Nay , '' cry the priest , `` this be a foul hearing !
John Amend-All !
A right Lollardy word .
And black of hue , a for an omen !
Sirs , this knave arrow like me not .
But it importeth rather to take counsel .
Who should this be ?
Bethink you , Bennet .
Of so many black ill-willers , which should he be that doth so hardily outface u ?
Simnel ?
I do much question it .
The Walsinghams ?
Nay , they be not yet so broken ; they still think to have the law over u , when time change .
There be Simon Malmesbury , too .
How think ye , Bennet ? ''
`` What think ye , sir , '' return Hatch , `` of Ellis Duckworth ? ''
`` Nay , Bennet , never .
Nay , not he , '' say the priest .
`` There cometh never any rising , Bennet , from below -- so all judicious chronicler concord in their opinion ; but rebellion travelleth ever downward from above ; and when Dick , Tom , and Harry take them to their bill , look ever narrowly to see what lord be profit thereby .
Now , Sir Daniel , have once more join him to the Queen 's party , be in ill odour with the Yorkist lord .
Thence , Bennet , come the blow -- by what procuring , I yet seek ; but therein lie the nerve of this discomfiture . ''
`` A n't please you , Sir Oliver , '' say Bennet , `` the axle be so hot in this country that I have long be smell fire .
So do this poor sinner , Appleyard .
And , by your leave , men 's spirit be so foully inclined to all of u , that it need neither York nor Lancaster to spur them on .
Hear my plain thought : You , that be a clerk , and Sir Daniel , that sail on any wind , ye have take many men 's good , and beaten and hang not a few .
Y ' be call to count for this ; in the end , I wot not how , ye have ever the uppermost at law , and ye think all patched .
But give me leave , Sir Oliver : the man that ye have dispossess and beat be but the angrier , and some day , when the black devil be by , he will up with his bow and clout me a yard of arrow through your inwards . ''
`` Nay , Bennet , y ' be in the wrong .
Bennet , ye should be glad to be correct , '' say Sir Oliver .
`` Y ' be a prater , Bennet , a talker , a babbler ; your mouth be wide than your two ear .
Mend it , Bennet , mend it . ''
`` Nay , I say no more .
Have it a ye list , '' say the retainer .
The priest now rise from the stool , and from the writing-case that hung about his neck take forth wax and a taper , and a flint and steel .
With these he seal up the chest and the cupboard with Sir Daniel 's arm , Hatch look on disconsolate ; and then the whole party proceed , somewhat timorously , to sally from the house and get to horse . ''
'T be time we be on the road , Sir Oliver , '' say Hatch , a he hold the priest 's stirrup while he mount .
`` Ay ; but , Bennet , thing be change , '' return the parson .
`` There be now no Appleyard -- rest his soul !
-- to keep the garrison .
I shall keep you , Bennet .
I must have a good man to rest me on in this day of black arrow .
` The arrow that flieth by day , ' saith the evangel ; I have no mind of the context ; nay , I be a sluggard priest , I be too deep in men 's affair .
Well , let u ride forth , Master Hatch .
The jackmen should be at the church by now . ''
So they ride forward down the road , with the wind after them , blow the tail of the parson 's cloak ; and behind them , a they go , cloud begin to arise and blot out the sinking sun .
They have pass three of the scattered house that make up Tunstall hamlet , when , come to a turn , they saw the church before them .
Ten or a dozen house cluster immediately round it ; but to the back the churchyard be next the meadow .
At the lych-gate , near a score of men be gather , some in the saddle , some standing by their horse ' head .
They be variously arm and mount ; some with spear , some with bill , some with bow , and some bestride plough-horses , still splash with the mire of the furrow ; for these be the very dreg of the country , and all the good men and the fair equipment be already with Sir Daniel in the field .
`` We have not do amiss , praise be the cross of Holywood !
Sir Daniel will be right well content , '' observe the priest , inwardly number the troop .
`` Who go ?
Stand !
if ye be true ! ''
shout Bennet .
A man be see slip through the churchyard among the yew ; and at the sound of this summons he discard all concealment , and fairly take to his heel for the forest .
The men at the gate , who have be hitherto unaware of the stranger 's presence , woke and scatter .
Those who have dismount begin scramble into the saddle ; the rest rode in pursuit ; but they have to make the circuit of the consecrate ground , and it be plain their quarry would escape them .
Hatch , roar an oath , put his horse at the hedge , to head him off ; but the beast refuse , and send his rider sprawling in the dust .
And though he be up again in a moment , and have catch the bridle , the time have go by , and the fugitive have gain too great a lead for any hope of capture .
The wise of all have be Dick Shelton .
Instead of start in a vain pursuit , he have whip his crossbow from his back , bent it , and set a quarrel to the string ; and now , when the others have desist , he turn to Bennet and ask if he should shoot .
`` Shoot !
shoot ! ''
cry the priest , with sanguinary violence .
`` Cover him , Master Dick , '' say Bennet .
`` Bring me him down like a ripe apple . ''
The fugitive be now within but a few leap of safety ; but this last part of the meadow run very steeply uphill ; and the man run slow in proportion .
What with the greyness of the fall night , and the uneven movement of the runner , it be no easy aim ; and a Dick level his bow , he felt a kind of pity , and a half desire that he might miss .
The quarrel speed .
The man stumble and fell , and a great cheer arose from Hatch and the pursuer .
But they be count their corn before the harvest .
The man fell lightly ; he be lightly afoot again , turn and wave his cap in a bravado , and be out of sight next moment in the margin of the wood .
`` And the plague go with him ! ''
cried Bennet .
`` He have thief ' heel ; he can run , by St Banbury !
But you touch him , Master Shelton ; he have steal your quarrel , may he never have good I grudge him less ! ''
`` Nay , but what make he by the church ? ''
ask Sir Oliver .
`` I be shrewdly afeared there have be mischief here .
Clipsby , good fellow , get ye down from your horse , and search thoroughly among the yew . ''
Clipsby be go but a little while ere he return carry a paper .
`` This writing be pin to the church door , '' he say , hand it to the parson .
`` I find naught else , sir parson . ''
`` Now , by the power of Mother Church , '' cry Sir Oliver , `` but this run hard on sacrilege !
For the king 's good pleasure , or the lord of the manor -- well !
But that every run-the-hedge in a green jerkin should fasten paper to the chancel door -- nay , it run hard on sacrilege , hard ; and men have burn for matter of less weight .
But what have we here ?
The light fall apace .
Good Master Richard , y ' have young eye .
Read me , I pray , this libel . ''
Dick Shelton take the paper in his hand and read it aloud .
It contain some line of very rugged doggerel , hardly even rhyme , write in a gross character , and most uncouthly spelt .
With the spell somewhat better , this be how they run : `` I have four blak arrow under my belt , Four for the greefs that I have felt , Four for the nomber of ill menne That have opressid me now and then .
One be go ; one be wele speed ; Old Apulyaird be ded .
One be for Maister Bennet Hatch , That burn Grimstone , wall and thatch .
One for Sir Oliver Oates , That cut Sir Harry Shelton 's throat .
Sir Daniel , ye shull have the fourt ; We shall think it fair sport .
Ye shull each have your own part , A blak arrow in each blak heart .
Get ye to your knee for to pray : Ye be ded theeves , by yea and nay !
`` JON AMEND-ALL of the Green Wood , And his jolly fellaweship .
`` Item , we have mo arrowes and goode hempen cord for otheres of your follow . ''
`` Now , well-a-day for charity and the Christian grace ! ''
cry Sir Oliver , lamentably .
`` Sirs , this be an ill world , and groweth daily bad .
I will swear upon the cross of Holywood I be a innocent of that good knight 's hurt , whether in act or purpose , a the babe unchristened .
Neither be his throat cut ; for therein they be again in error , a there still live credible witness to show . ''
`` It boot not , sir parson , '' say Bennet .
`` Here be unseasonable talk . ''
`` Nay , Master Bennet , not so .
Keep ye in your due place , good Bennet , '' answer the priest .
`` I shall make mine innocence appear .
I will , upon no consideration , lose my poor life in error .
I take all men to witness that I be clear of this matter .
I be not even in the Moat House .
I be send of an errand before nine upon the clock '' -- `` Sir Oliver , '' say Hatch , interrupting , `` since it please you not to stop this sermon , I will take other mean .
Goffe , sound to horse . ''
And while the tucket be sound , Bennet move close to the bewilder parson , and whisper violently in his ear .
Dick Shelton saw the priest 's eye turn upon him for an instant in a startled glance .
He have some cause for thought ; for this Sir Harry Shelton be his own natural father .
But he say never a word , and keep his countenance unmoved .
Hatch and Sir Oliver discuss together for a while their altered situation ; ten men , it be decide between them , should be reserve , not only to garrison the Moat House , but to escort the priest across the wood .
In the meantime , a Bennet be to remain behind , the command of the reinforcement be give to Master Shelton .
Indeed , there be no choice ; the men be loutish fellow , dull and unskilled in war , while Dick be not only popular , but resolute and grave beyond his age .
Although his youth have be spend in these rough , country place , the lad have be well taught in letter by Sir Oliver , and Hatch himself have show him the management of arm and the first principle of command .
Bennet have always be kind and helpful ; he be one of those who be cruel a the grave to those they call their enemy , but ruggedly faithful and well willing to their friend ; and now , while Sir Oliver enter the next house to write , in his swift , exquisite penmanship , a memorandum of the last occurrence to his master , Sir Daniel Brackley , Bennet come up to his pupil to wish him God-speed upon his enterprise .
`` Ye must go the long way about , Master Shelton , '' he say ; `` round by the bridge , for your life !
Keep a sure man fifty pace afore you , to draw shot ; and go softly till y ' be past the wood .
If the rogue fall upon you , ride for ` t ; ye will do naught by stand .
And keep ever forward , Master Shelton ; turn me not back again , an ye love your life ; there be no help in Tunstall , mind ye that .
And now , since ye go to the great war about the king , and I continue to dwell here in extreme jeopardy of my life , and the saint alone can certify if we shall meet again below , I give you my last counsel now at your riding .
Keep an eye on Sir Daniel ; he be unsure .
Put not your trust in the jack-priest ; he intendeth not amiss , but doth the will of others ; it be a hand-gun for Sir Daniel !
Get your good lordship where ye go ; make you strong friend ; look to it .
And think ever a pater-noster-while on Bennet Hatch .
There be bad rogue afoot than Bennet .
So , God-speed ! ''
`` And Heaven be with you , Bennet ! ''
return Dick .
`` Ye be a good friend to me-ward , and so I shall say ever . ''
`` And , look ye , master , '' add Hatch , with a certain embarrassment , `` if this Amend-All should get a shaft into me , ye might , mayhap , lay out a gold mark or mayhap a pound for my poor soul ; for it be like to go stiff with me in purgatory . ''
`` Ye shall have your will of it , Bennet , '' answer Dick .
`` But , what cheer , man !
we shall meet again , where ye shall have more need of ale than mass . ''
`` The saint so grant it , Master Dick ! ''
return the other .
`` But here come Sir Oliver .
An he be a quick with the long-bow a with the pen , he would be a brave man-at-arms . ''
Sir Oliver give Dick a sealed packet , with this superscription : `` To my ryght worchypful master , Sir Daniel Brackley , knyght , be thys delyvered in haste . ''
And Dick , put it in the bosom of his jacket , give the word and set forth westward up the village .
BOOK I -- THE TWO LADS CHAPTER I -- AT THE SIGN OF THE SUN IN KETTLEY Sir Daniel and his men lay in and about Kettley that night , warmly quarter and well patrol .
But the Knight of Tunstall be one who never rest from money-getting ; and even now , when he be on the brink of an adventure which should make or mar him , he be up an hour after midnight to squeeze poor neighbour .
He be one who traffic greatly in disputed inheritance ; it be his way to buy out the most unlikely claimant , and then , by the favour he curry with great lord about the king , procure unjust decision in his favour ; or , if that be too roundabout , to seize the dispute manor by force of arm , and rely on his influence and Sir Oliver 's cunning in the law to hold what he have snatch .
Kettley be one such place ; it have come very lately into his clutch ; he still meet with opposition from the tenant ; and it be to overawe discontent that he have lead his troop that way .
By two in the morning , Sir Daniel sit in the inn room , close by the fireside , for it be cold at that hour among the fen of Kettley .
By his elbow stand a pottle of spiced ale .
He have take off his visored headpiece , and sit with his bald head and thin , dark visage rest on one hand , wrap warmly in a sanguine-coloured cloak .
At the low end of the room about a dozen of his men stand sentry over the door or lay asleep on bench ; and somewhat near hand , a young lad , apparently of twelve or thirteen , be stretch in a mantle on the floor .
The host of the Sun stand before the great man .
`` Now , mark me , mine host , '' Sir Daniel say , `` follow but mine order , and I shall be your good lord ever .
I must have good men for head borough , and I will have Adam-a-More high constable ; see to it narrowly .
If other men be choose , it shall avail you nothing ; rather it shall be find to your sore cost .
For those that have pay rent to Walsingham I shall take good measure -- you among the rest , mine host . ''
`` Good knight , '' say the host , `` I will swear upon the cross of Holywood I do but pay to Walsingham upon compulsion .
Nay , bully knight , I love not the rogue Walsinghams ; they be as poor a thief , bully knight .
Give me a great lord like you .
Nay ; ask me among the neighbour , I be stout for Brackley . ''
`` It may be , '' say Sir Daniel , dryly .
`` Ye shall then pay twice . ''
The innkeeper make a horrid grimace ; but this be a piece of bad luck that might readily befall a tenant in these unruly time , and he be perhaps glad to make his peace so easily .
`` Bring up yon fellow , Selden ! ''
cry the knight .
And one of his retainer lead up a poor , cringe old man , as pale a a candle , and all shake with the fen fever .
`` Sirrah , '' say Sir Daniel , `` your name ? ''
`` A n't please your worship , '' reply the man , `` my name be Condall -- Condall of Shoreby , at your good worship 's pleasure . ''
`` I have hear you ill report on , '' return the knight .
`` Ye deal in treason , rogue ; ye trudge the country leasing ; y ' be heavily suspicioned of the death of severals .
How , fellow , be ye so bold ?
But I will bring you down . ''
`` Right honourable and my reverend lord , '' the man cry , `` here be some hodge-podge , save your good presence .
I be but a poor private man , and have hurt none . ''
`` The under-sheriff do report of you most vilely , '' say the knight . ''
` Seize me , ' saith he , ` that Tyndal of Shoreby . ' ''
`` Condall , my good lord ; Condall be my poor name , '' say the unfortunate .
`` Condall or Tyndal , it be all one , '' reply Sir Daniel , coolly .
`` For , by my sooth , y ' be here and I do mightily suspect your honesty .
If ye would save your neck , write me swiftly an obligation for twenty pound . ''
`` For twenty pound , my good lord ! ''
cry Condall .
`` Here be midsummer madness !
My whole estate amounteth not to seventy shilling . ''
`` Condall or Tyndal , '' return Sir Daniel , grinning , `` I will run my peril of that loss .
Write me down twenty , and when I have recover all I may , I will be good lord to you , and pardon you the rest . ''
`` Alas !
my good lord , it may not be ; I have no skill to write , '' say Condall .
`` Well-a-day ! ''
return the knight .
`` Here , then , be no remedy .
Yet I would fain have spar you , Tyndal , have my conscience suffer .
Selden , take me this old shrew softly to the near elm , and hang me him tenderly by the neck , where I may see him at my riding .
Fare ye well , good Master Condall , dear Master Tyndal ; y ' be post-haste for Paradise ; fare ye then well ! ''
`` Nay , my right pleasant lord , '' reply Condall , force an obsequious smile , `` an ye be so masterful , a doth right well become you , I will even , with all my poor skill , do your good bidding . ''
`` Friend , '' quoth Sir Daniel , `` ye will now write two score .
Go to !
y ' be too cunning for a livelihood of seventy shilling .
Selden , see him write me this in good form , and have it duly witness . ''
And Sir Daniel , who be a very merry knight , none merrier in England , take a drink of his mulled ale , and lay back , smile .
Meanwhile , the boy upon the floor begin to stir , and presently sit up and look about him with a scare .
`` Hither , '' say Sir Daniel ; and a the other rise at his command and come slowly towards him , he lean back and laugh outright .
`` By the rood ! ''
he cry , `` a sturdy boy ! ''
The lad flush crimson with anger , and dart a look of hate out of his dark eye .
Now that he be on his leg , it be more difficult to make certain of his age .
His face look somewhat old in expression , but it be as smooth a a young child 's ; and in bone and body he be unusually slender , and somewhat awkward of gait .
`` Ye have call me , Sir Daniel , '' he say .
`` Was it to laugh at my poor plight ? ''
`` Nay , now , let laugh , '' say the knight .
`` Good shrew , let laugh , I pray you .
An ye could see yourself , I warrant ye would laugh the first . ''
`` Well , '' cry the lad , flushing , `` ye shall answer this when ye answer for the other .
Laugh while yet ye may ! ''
`` Nay , now , good cousin , '' reply Sir Daniel , with some earnestness , `` think not that I mock at you , except in mirth , a between kinsfolk and singular friend .
I will make you a marriage of a thousand pound , go to !
and cherish you exceedingly .
I take you , indeed , roughly , a the time demand ; but from henceforth I shall ungrudgingly maintain and cheerfully serve you .
Ye shall be Mrs. Shelton -- Lady Shelton , by my troth !
for the lad promiseth bravely .
Tut !
ye will not shy for honest laughter ; it purgeth melancholy .
They be no rogue who laugh , good cousin .
Good mine host , lay me a meal now for my cousin , Master John .
Sit ye down , sweetheart , and eat . ''
`` Nay , '' say Master John , `` I will break no bread .
Since ye force me to this sin , I will fast for my soul 's interest .
But , good mine host , I pray you of courtesy give me a cup of fair water ; I shall be much beholden to your courtesy indeed . ''
`` Ye shall have a dispensation , go to ! ''
cry the knight .
`` Shalt be well shriven , by my faith !
Content you , then , and eat . ''
But the lad be obstinate , drink a cup of water , and , once more wrap himself closely in his mantle , sit in a far corner , brood .
In an hour or two , there rise a stir in the village of sentry challenge and the clatter of arm and horse ; and then a troop draw up by the inn door , and Richard Shelton , splash with mud , present himself upon the threshold .
`` Save you , Sir Daniel , '' he say .
`` How !
Dickie Shelton ! ''
cry the knight ; and at the mention of Dick 's name the other lad look curiously across .
`` What maketh Bennet Hatch ? ''
`` Please you , sir knight , to take cognisance of this packet from Sir Oliver , wherein be all thing fully state , '' answer Richard , present the priest 's letter .
`` And please you far , ye be best make all speed to Risingham ; for on the way hither we encounter one rid furiously with letter , and by his report , my Lord of Risingham be sore best , and lack exceedingly your presence . ''
`` How say you ?
Sore best ? ''
return the knight .
`` Nay , then , we will make speed sit down , good Richard .
As the world go in this poor realm of England , he that rid softliest ride surest .
Delay , they say , begetteth peril ; but it be rather this itch of do that undoes men ; mark it , Dick .
But let me see , first , what cattle ye have bring .
Selden , a link here at the door ! ''
And Sir Daniel stride forth into the village street , and , by the red glow of a torch , inspect his new troop .
He be an unpopular neighbour and an unpopular master ; but a a leader in war he be well-beloved by those who ride behind his pennant .
His dash , his proved courage , his forethought for the soldier ' comfort , even his rough gibe , be all to the taste of the bold blade in jack and salet .
`` Nay , by the rood ! ''
he cry , `` what poor dog be these ?
Here be some as crook a a bow , and some as lean a a spear .
Friends , ye shall ride in the front of the battle ; I can spare you , friend .
Mark me this old villain on the piebald !
A two-year mutton rid on a hog would look more soldierly !
Ha !
Clipsby , be ye there , old rat ?
Y ' be a man I could lose with a good heart ; ye shall go in front of all , with a bull 's eye paint on your jack , to be the good butt for archery ; sirrah , ye shall show me the way . ''
`` I will show you any way , Sir Daniel , but the way to change side , '' return Clipsby , sturdily .
Sir Daniel laugh a guffaw .
`` Why , well say ! ''
he cry .
`` Hast a shrewd tongue in thy mouth , go to !
I will forgive you for that merry word .
Selden , see them feed , both man and brute . ''
The knight re-entered the inn .
`` Now , friend Dick , '' he say , `` fall to .
Here be good ale and bacon .
Eat , while that I read . ''
Sir Daniel open the packet , and a he read his brow darken .
When he have do he sit a little , muse .
Then he look sharply at his ward .
`` Dick , '' say he , `` Y ' have see this penny rhyme ? ''
The lad reply in the affirmative .
`` It bear your father 's name , '' continue the knight ; `` and our poor shrew of a parson be , by some mad soul , accuse of slay him . ''
`` He do most eagerly deny it , '' answer Dick .
`` He do ? ''
cry the knight , very sharply .
`` Heed him not .
He have a loose tongue ; he babble like a jack-sparrow .
Some day , when I may find the leisure , Dick , I will myself more fully inform you of these matter .
There be one Duckworth shrewdly blame for it ; but the time be troubled , and there be no justice to be get . ''
`` It befell at the Moat House ? ''
Dick venture , with a beating at his heart .
`` It befell between the Moat House and Holywood , '' reply Sir Daniel , calmly ; but he shoot a covert glance , black with suspicion , at Dick 's face .
`` And now , '' add the knight , `` speed you with your meal ; ye shall return to Tunstall with a line from me . ''
Dick 's face fell sorely .
`` Prithee , Sir Daniel , '' he cry , `` send one of the villain !
I beseech you let me to the battle .
I can strike a stroke , I promise you . ''
`` I misdoubt it not , '' reply Sir Daniel , sit down to write .
`` But here , Dick , be no honour to be win .
I lie in Kettley till I have sure tidings of the war , and then ride to join me with the conqueror .
Cry not on cowardice ; it be but wisdom , Dick ; for this poor realm so tosseth with rebellion , and the king 's name and custody so changeth hand , that no man may be certain of the morrow .
Toss-pot and Shuttle-wit run in , but my Lord Good-Counsel sit o ' one side , wait . ''
With that , Sir Daniel , turn his back to Dick , and quite at the farther end of the long table , begin to write his letter , with his mouth on one side , for this business of the Black Arrow stick sorely in his throat .
Meanwhile , young Shelton be go on heartily enough with his breakfast , when he felt a touch upon his arm , and a very soft voice whisper in his ear .
`` Make not a sign , I do beseech you , '' say the voice , `` but of your charity tell me the straight way to Holywood .
Beseech you , now , good boy , comfort a poor soul in peril and extreme distress , and set me so far forth upon the way to my repose . ''
`` Take the path by the windmill , '' answer Dick , in the same tone ; `` it will bring you to Till Ferry ; there inquire again . ''
And without turn his head , he fell again to eat .
But with the tail of his eye he catch a glimpse of the young lad call Master John stealthily creep from the room .
`` Why , '' think Dick , `` he be a young a I . ` Good boy ' doth he call me ?
An I have know , I should have see the varlet hang ere I have tell him .
Well , if he go through the fen , I may come up with him and pull his ear . ''
Half an hour later , Sir Daniel give Dick the letter , and bid him speed to the Moat House .
And , again , some half an hour after Dick 's departure , a messenger come , in hot haste , from my Lord of Risingham .
`` Sir Daniel , '' the messenger say , `` ye lose great honour , by my sooth !
The fight begin again this morning ere the dawn , and we have beat their van and scatter their right wing .
Only the main battle standeth fast .
An we have your fresh men , we should tilt you them all into the river .
What , sir knight !
Will ye be the last ?
It stand not with your good credit . ''
`` Nay , '' cry the knight , `` I be but now upon the march .
Selden , sound me the tucket .
Sir , I be with you on the instant .
It be not two hour since the more part of my command come in , sir messenger .
What would ye have ?
Spurring be good meat , but yet it kill the charger .
Bustle , boys ! ''
By this time the tucket be sound cheerily in the morning , and from all side Sir Daniel 's men pour into the main street and form before the inn .
They have sleep upon their arm , with charger saddle , and in ten minute five-score man-at-arms and archer , cleanly equip and briskly discipline , stand rank and ready .
The chief part be in Sir Daniel 's livery , murrey and blue , which give the great show to their array .
The best armed rode first ; and away out of sight , at the tail of the column , come the sorry reinforcement of the night before .
Sir Daniel look with pride along the line .
`` Here be the lad to serve you in a pinch , '' he say .
`` They be pretty men , indeed , '' reply the messenger .
`` It but augments my sorrow that ye have not march the early . ''
`` Well , '' say the knight , `` what would ye ?
The beginning of a feast and the end of a fray , sir messenger ; '' and he mount into his saddle .
`` Why !
how now ! ''
he cry .
`` John !
Joanna !
Nay , by the sacred rood !
where be she ?
Host , where be that girl ? ''
`` Girl , Sir Daniel ? ''
cry the landlord .
`` Nay , sir , I saw no girl . ''
`` Boy , then , dotard ! ''
cry the knight .
`` Could ye not see it be a wench ?
She in the murrey-coloured mantle -- she that break her fast with water , rogue -- where be she ? ''
`` Nay , the saint bless u !
Master John , ye call him , '' say the host .
`` Well , I think none evil .
He be go .
I saw him -- her -- I saw her in the stable a good hour agone ; ' a be saddle a grey horse . ''
`` Now , by the rood ! ''
cry Sir Daniel , `` the wench be worth five hundred pound to me and more . ''
`` Sir knight , '' observe the messenger , with bitterness , `` while that ye be here , roar for five hundred pound , the realm of England be elsewhere be lose and win . ''
`` It be well say , '' reply Sir Daniel .
`` Selden , fall me out with six cross-bowmen ; hunt me her down .
I care not what it cost ; but , at my returning , let me find her at the Moat House .
Be it upon your head .
And now , sir messenger , we march . ''
And the troop break into a good trot , and Selden and his six men be leave behind upon the street of Kettley , with the star villager .
CHAPTER II -- IN THE FEN It be near six in the May morning when Dick begin to ride down into the fen upon his homeward way .
The sky be all blue ; the jolly wind blew loud and steady ; the windmill-sails be spin ; and the willow over all the fen rippling and whiten like a field of corn .
He have be all night in the saddle , but his heart be good and his body sound , and he ride right merrily .
The path go down and down into the marsh , till he lose sight of all the neighbouring landmark but Kettley windmill on the knoll behind him , and the extreme top of Tunstall Forest far before .
On either hand there be great field of blow reed and willow , pool of water shake in the wind , and treacherous bog , as green a emerald , to tempt and to betray the traveller .
The path lay almost straight through the morass .
It be already very ancient ; it foundation have be lay by Roman soldiery ; in the lapse of age much of it have sink , and every here and there , for a few hundred yard , it lay submerge below the stagnant water of the fen .
About a mile from Kettley , Dick come to one such break in the plain line of causeway , where the reed and willow grow dispersedly like little island and confuse the eye .
The gap , besides , be more than usually long ; it be a place where any stranger might come readily to mischief ; and Dick bethink him , with something like a pang , of the lad whom he have so imperfectly direct .
As for himself , one look backward to where the windmill sail be turn black against the blue of heaven -- one look forward to the high ground of Tunstall Forest , and he be sufficiently direct and hold straight on , the water wash to his horse 's knee , as safe a on a highway .
Half-way across , and when he have already sight the path rise high and dry upon the farther side , he be aware of a great splashing on his right , and saw a grey horse , sunk to it belly in the mud , and still spasmodically struggle .
Instantly , a though it have divine the neighbourhood of help , the poor beast begin to neigh most piercingly .
It roll , meanwhile , a blood-shot eye , insane with terror ; and a it sprawl wallow in the quag , cloud of sting insect rise and buzz about it in the air .
`` Alack ! ''
think Dick , `` can the poor lad have perish ?
There be his horse , for certain -- a brave grey !
Nay , comrade , if thou criest to me so piteously , I will do all man can to help thee .
Shalt not lie there to drown by inch ! ''
And he make ready his crossbow , and put a quarrel through the creature 's head .
Dick rode on after this act of rugged mercy , somewhat sober in spirit , and look closely about him for any sign of his le happy predecessor in the way .
`` I would I have dare to tell him far , '' he think ; `` for I fear he have miscarry in the slough . ''
And just a he be so thinking , a voice cry upon his name from the causeway side , and , look over his shoulder , he saw the lad 's face peering from a clump of reed .
`` Are ye there ? ''
he say , rein in .
`` Ye lay so close among the reed that I have pass you by .
I saw your horse bemire , and put him from his agony ; which , by my sooth !
an ye have be a more merciful rider , ye have do yourself .
But come forth out of your hiding .
Here be none to trouble you . ''
`` Nay , good boy , I have no arm , nor skill to use them if I have , '' reply the other , step forth upon the pathway .
`` Why call me ` boy ' ? ''
cry Dick .
`` Y ' be not , I trow , the elder of u twain . ''
`` Good Master Shelton , '' say the other , `` prithee forgive me .
I have none the least intention to offend .
Rather I would in every way beseech your gentleness and favour , for I be now bad best than ever , have lose my way , my cloak , and my poor horse .
To have a riding-rod and spur , and never a horse to sit upon !
And before all , '' he add , look ruefully upon his clothes -- `` before all , to be so sorrily besmirch ! ''
`` Tut ! ''
cry Dick .
`` Would ye mind a ducking ?
Blood of wound or dust of travel -- that 's a man 's adornment . ''
`` Nay , then , I like him good plain , '' observe the lad .
`` But , prithee , how shall I do ?
Prithee , good Master Richard , help me with your good counsel .
If I come not safe to Holywood , I be undone . ''
`` Nay , '' say Dick , dismounting , `` I will give more than counsel .
Take my horse , and I will run awhile , and when I be weary we shall change again , that so , rid and running , both may go the speedier . ''
So the change be make , and they go forward as briskly a they durst on the uneven causeway , Dick with his hand upon the other 's knee .
`` How call ye your name ? ''
ask Dick .
`` Call me John Matcham , '' reply the lad .
`` And what make ye to Holywood ? ''
Dick continue .
`` I seek sanctuary from a man that would oppress me , '' be the answer .
`` The good Abbot of Holywood be a strong pillar to the weak . ''
`` And how come ye with Sir Daniel , Master Matcham ? ''
pursue Dick .
`` Nay , '' cry the other , `` by the abuse of force !
He hath take me by violence from my own place ; dress me in these weed ; ridden with me till my heart be sick ; gibe me till I could ` a ' wept ; and when certain of my friend pursue , think to have me back , clap me in the rear to stand their shot !
I be even graze in the right foot , and walk but lamely .
Nay , there shall come a day between u ; he shall smart for all ! ''
`` Would ye shoot at the moon with a hand-gun ? ''
say Dick . ''
'T be a valiant knight , and hath a hand of iron .
An he guess I have make or meddle with your flight , it would go sore with me . ''
`` Ay , poor boy , '' return the other , `` y ' be his ward , I know it .
By the same token , so be I , or so he saith ; or else he hath bought my marriage -- I wot not rightly which ; but it be some handle to oppress me by . ''
`` Boy again ! ''
say Dick .
`` Nay , then , shall I call you girl , good Richard ? ''
ask Matcham .
`` Never a girl for me , '' return Dick .
`` I do abjure the crew of them ! ''
`` Ye speak boyishly , '' say the other .
`` Ye think more of them than ye pretend . ''
`` Not I , '' say Dick , stoutly .
`` They come not in my mind .
A plague of them , say I !
Give me to hunt and to fight and to feast , and to live with jolly forester .
I never heard of a maid yet that be for any service , save one only ; and she , poor shrew , be burn for a witch and the wearing of men 's clothes in spite of nature . ''
Master Matcham cross himself with fervour , and appear to pray .
`` What make ye ? ''
Dick inquire .
`` I pray for her spirit , '' answer the other , with a somewhat troubled voice .
`` For a witch 's spirit ? ''
Dick cry .
`` But pray for her , an ye list ; she be the best wench in Europe , be this Joan of Arc .
Old Appleyard the archer ran from her , he say , a if she have be Mahoun .
Nay , she be a brave wench . ''
`` Well , but , good Master Richard , '' resume Matcham , `` an ye like maid so little , y ' be no true natural man ; for God make them twain by intention , and bring true love into the world , to be man 's hope and woman 's comfort . ''
`` Faugh ! ''
say Dick .
`` Y ' be a milk-sopping baby , so to harp on woman .
An ye think I be no true man , get down upon the path , and whether at fist , back-sword , or bow and arrow , I will prove my manhood on your body . ''
`` Nay , I be no fighter , '' say Matcham , eagerly .
`` I mean no tittle of offence .
I mean but pleasantry .
And if I talk of woman , it be because I hear ye be to marry . ''
`` I to marry ! ''
Dick exclaim .
`` Well , it be the first I hear of it .
And with whom be I to marry ? ''
`` One Joan Sedley , '' reply Matcham , colour .
`` It be Sir Daniel 's do ; he hath money to gain upon both side ; and , indeed , I have hear the poor wench bemoan herself pitifully of the match .
It seem she be of your mind , or else distasted to the bridegroom . ''
`` Well !
marriage be like death , it come to all , '' say Dick , with resignation .
`` And she bemoan herself ?
I pray ye now , see there how shuttle-witted be these girl : to bemoan herself before that she have see me !
Do I bemoan myself ?
Not I .
An I be to marry , I will marry dry-eyed !
But if ye know her , prithee , of what favour be she ?
fair or foul ?
And be she shrewish or pleasant ? ''
`` Nay , what matter it ? ''
say Matcham .
`` An y ' be to marry , ye can but marry .
What matter foul or fair ?
These be but toy .
Y ' be no milksop , Master Richard ; ye will wed with dry eye , anyhow . ''
`` It be well say , '' reply Shelton .
`` Little I reck . ''
`` Your lady wife be like to have a pleasant lord , '' say Matcham .
`` She shall have the lord Heaven make her for , '' return Dick .
`` It trow there be bad as well a good . ''
`` Ah , the poor wench ! ''
cry the other .
`` And why so poor ? ''
ask Dick .
`` To wed a man of wood , '' reply his companion .
`` O me , for a wooden husband ! ''
`` I think I be a man of wood , indeed , '' say Dick , `` to trudge afoot the while you ride my horse ; but it be good wood , I trow . ''
`` Good Dick , forgive me , '' cry the other .
`` Nay , y ' be the best heart in England ; I but laugh .
Forgive me now , sweet Dick . ''
`` Nay , no fool word , '' return Dick , a little embarrass by his companion 's warmth .
`` No harm be do .
I be not touchy , praise the saint . ''
And at that moment the wind , which be blow straight behind them a they go , bring them the rough flourish of Sir Daniel 's trumpeter .
`` Hark ! ''
say Dick , `` the tucket soundeth . ''
`` Ay , '' say Matcham , `` they have find my flight , and now I be unhorsed ! ''
and he become pale a death .
`` Nay , what cheer ! ''
return Dick .
`` Y ' have a long start , and we be near the ferry .
And it be I , methinks , that be unhorsed . ''
`` Alack , I shall be take ! ''
cry the fugitive .
`` Dick , kind Dick , beseech ye help me but a little ! ''
`` Why , now , what aileth thee ? ''
say Dick .
`` Methinks I help you very patently .
But my heart be sorry for so spiritless a fellow !
And see ye here , John Matcham -- sith John Matcham be your name -- I , Richard Shelton , tide what betideth , come what may , will see you safe in Holywood .
The saint so do to me again if I default you .
Come , pick me up a good heart , Sir White-face .
The way better here ; spur me the horse .
Go faster !
faster !
Nay , mind not for me ; I can run like a deer . ''
So , with the horse trot hard , and Dick run easily alongside , they cross the remainder of the fen , and come out upon the bank of the river by the ferryman 's hut .
CHAPTER III -- THE FEN FERRY The river Till be a wide , sluggish , clayey water , ooze out of fen , and in this part of it course it strain among some score of willow-covered , marshy islet .
It be a dingy stream ; but upon this bright , spirited morning everything be become beautiful .
The wind and the marten break it up into innumerable dimple ; and the reflection of the sky be scatter over all the surface in crumb of smile blue .
A creek run up to meet the path , and close under the bank the ferryman 's hut lay snugly .
It be of wattle and clay , and the grass grow green upon the roof .
Dick go to the door and open it .
Within , upon a foul old russet cloak , the ferryman lay stretch and shiver ; a great hulk of a man , but lean and shake by the country fever .
`` Hey , Master Shelton , '' he say , `` be ye for the ferry ?
Ill time , ill time !
Look to yourself .
There be a fellowship abroad .
Ye be good turn round on your two heel and try the bridge . ''
`` Nay ; time 's in the saddle , '' answer Dick .
`` Time will ride , Hugh Ferryman .
I be hot in haste . ''
`` A wilful man ! ''
return the ferryman , rise .
`` An ye win safe to the Moat House , y ' have do lucky ; but I say no more . ''
And then catch sight of Matcham , `` Who be this ? ''
he ask , a he pause , blink , on the threshold of his cabin .
`` It be my kinsman , Master Matcham , '' answer Dick .
`` Give ye good day , good ferryman , '' say Matcham , who have dismount , and now come forward , lead the horse .
`` Launch me your boat , I prithee ; we be sore in haste . ''
The gaunt ferryman continue star .
`` By the mass ! ''
he cry at length , and laugh with open throat .
Matcham colour to his neck and wince ; and Dick , with an angry countenance , put his hand on the lout 's shoulder .
`` How now , churl ! ''
he cry .
`` Fall to thy business , and leave mock thy better . ''
Hugh Ferryman grumblingly undo his boat , and shove it a little forth into the deep water .
Then Dick lead in the horse , and Matcham follow .
`` Ye be mortal small make , master , '' say Hugh , with a wide grin ; `` something o ' the wrong model , belike .
Nay , Master Shelton , I be for you , '' he add , get to his oar .
`` A cat may look at a king .
I do but take a shot of the eye at Master Matcham . ''
`` Sirrah , no more word , '' say Dick .
`` Bend me your back . ''
They be by that time at the mouth of the creek , and the view open up and down the river .
Everywhere it be enclose with island .
Clay bank be fall in , willow nod , reed wave , marten dip and pip .
There be no sign of man in the labyrinth of water .
`` My master , '' say the ferryman , keep the boat steady with one oar , `` I have a shrew guess that John-a-Fenne be on the island .
He bear me a black grudge to all Sir Daniel 's .
How if I turn me up stream and land you an arrow-flight above the path ?
Ye be best not meddle with John Fenne . ''
`` How , then ?
be he of this company ? ''
ask Dick .
`` Nay , mum be the word , '' say Hugh .
`` But I would go up water , Dick .
How if Master Matcham come by an arrow ? ''
and he laugh again .
`` Be it so , Hugh , '' answer Dick .
`` Look ye , then , '' pursue Hugh .
`` Sith it shall so be , unsling me your cross-bow -- so : now make it ready -- good ; place me a quarrel .
Ay , keep it so , and look upon me grimly . ''
`` What meaneth this ? ''
ask Dick .
`` Why , my master , if I steal you across , it must be under force or fear , '' reply the ferryman ; `` for else , if John Fenne get wind of it , he be like to prove my most distressful neighbour . ''
`` Do these churls ride so roughly ? ''
Dick inquire .
`` Do they command Sir Daniel 's own ferry ? ''
`` Nay , '' whisper the ferryman , wink .
`` Mark me !
Sir Daniel shall down .
His time be out .
He shall down .
Mum ! ''
And he bend over his oar .
They pull a long way up the river , turn the tail of an island , and come softly down a narrow channel next the opposite bank .
Then Hugh hold water in midstream .
`` I must land you here among the willow , '' he say .
`` Here be no path but willow swamp and quagmire , '' answer Dick .
`` Master Shelton , '' reply Hugh , `` I dare not take ye nearer down , for your own sake now .
He watcheth me the ferry , lie on his bow .
All that go by and owe Sir Daniel goodwill , he shooteth down like rabbit .
I hear him swear it by the rood .
An I have not know you of old day -- ay , and from so high upward -- I would ` a ' let you go on ; but for old day ' remembrance , and because ye have this toy with you that 's not fit for wound or warfare , I do risk my two poor ear to have you over whole .
Content you ; I can no more , on my salvation ! ''
Hugh be still speak , lie on his oar , when there come a great shout from among the willow on the island , and sound follow a of a strong man breasting roughly through the wood .
`` A murrain ! ''
cry Hugh .
`` He be on the upper island all the while ! ''
He pull straight for shore .
`` Threat me with your bow , good Dick ; threat me with it plain , '' he add .
`` I have try to save your skin , save you mine ! ''
The boat run into a tough thicket of willow with a crash .
Matcham , pale , but steady and alert , at a sign from Dick , run along the thwart and leap ashore ; Dick , take the horse by the bridle , seek to follow , but what with the animal 's bulk , and what with the closeness of the thicket , both stuck fast .
The horse neigh and trample ; and the boat , which be swing in an eddy , come on and off and pitch with violence .
`` It may not be , Hugh ; here be no landing , '' cry Dick ; but he still struggle valiantly with the obstinate thicket and the startle animal .
A tall man appear upon the shore of the island , a long-bow in his hand .
Dick saw him for an instant , with the corner of his eye , bend the bow with a great effort , his face crimson with hurry .
`` Who go ? ''
he shout .
`` Hugh , who go ? '' ''
'T be Master Shelton , John , '' reply the ferryman .
`` Stand , Dick Shelton ! ''
bawl the man upon the island .
`` Ye shall have no hurt , upon the rood !
Stand !
Back out , Hugh Ferryman . ''
Dick cry a taunt answer .
`` Nay , then , ye shall go afoot , '' return the man ; and he let drive an arrow .
The horse , strike by the shaft , lash out in agony and terror ; the boat capsize , and the next moment all be struggle in the eddy of the river .
When Dick come up , he be within a yard of the bank ; and before his eye be clear , his hand have close on something firm and strong that instantly begin to drag him forward .
It be the riding-rod , that Matcham , crawl forth upon an overhang willow , have opportunely thrust into his grasp .
`` By the mass ! ''
cry Dick , a he be help ashore , `` that make a life I owe you .
I swim like a cannon-ball . ''
And he turn instantly towards the island .
Midway over , Hugh Ferryman be swim with his upturned boat , while John-a-Fenne , furious at the ill-fortune of his shot , bawl to him to hurry .
`` Come , Jack , '' say Shelton , `` run for it !
Ere Hugh can hale his barge across , or the pair of 'em can get it righted , we may be out of cry . ''
And add example to his word , he begin to run , dodge among the willow , and in marshy place leap from tussock to tussock .
He have no time to look for his direction ; all he could do be to turn his back upon the river , and put all his heart to run .
Presently , however , the ground begin to rise , which show him he be still in the right way , and soon after they come forth upon a slope of solid turf , where elm begin to mingle with the willow .
But here Matcham , who have be drag far into the rear , throw himself fairly down .
`` Leave me , Dick ! ''
he cry , pantingly ; `` I can no more . ''
Dick turn , and come back to where his companion lay .
`` Nay , Jack , leave thee ! ''
he cry .
`` That be a knave 's trick , to be sure , when ye risk a shot and a ducking , ay , and a drowning too , to save my life .
Drowning , in sooth ; for why I do not pull you in along with me , the saint alone can tell ! ''
`` Nay , '' say Matcham , `` I would ` a ' save u both , good Dick , for I can swim . ''
`` Can ye so ? ''
cry Dick , with open eye .
It be the one manly accomplishment of which he be himself incapable .
In the order of the thing that he admire , next to have kill a man in single fight come swimming .
`` Well , '' he say , `` here be a lesson to despise no man .
I promise to care for you as far a Holywood , and , by the rood , Jack , y ' be more capable to care for me . ''
`` Well , Dick , we 're friend now , '' say Matcham .
`` Nay , I never be unfriends , '' answer Dick .
`` Y ' be a brave lad in your way , albeit something of a milksop , too .
I never meet your like before this day .
But , prithee , fetch back your breath , and let u on .
Here be no place for chatter . ''
`` My foot hurt shrewdly , '' say Matcham .
`` Nay , I have forget your foot , '' return Dick .
`` Well , we must go the gentlier .
I would I know rightly where we be .
I have clean lose the path ; yet that may be for the good , too .
An they watch the ferry , they watch the path , belike , as well .
I would Sir Daniel be back with two score men ; he would sweep me these rascal a the wind sweeps leaf .
Come , Jack , lean ye on my shoulder , ye poor shrew .
Nay , y ' be not tall enough .
What age be ye , for a wager ?
-- twelve ? ''
`` Nay , I be sixteen , '' say Matcham .
`` Y ' be poorly grow to height , then , '' answer Dick .
`` But take my hand .
We shall go softly , never fear .
I owe you a life ; I be a good repayer , Jack , of good or evil . ''
They begin to go forward up the slope .
`` We must hit the road , early or late , '' continue Dick ; `` and then for a fresh start .
By the mass !
but y ' ` ave a rickety hand , Jack .
If I have a hand like that , I would think shame .
I tell you , '' he go on , with a sudden chuckle , `` I swear by the mass I believe Hugh Ferryman take you for a maid . ''
`` Nay , never ! ''
cry the other , colour high .
`` A ' do , though , for a wager ! ''
Dick exclaim .
`` Small blame to him .
Ye look liker maid than man ; and I tell you more -- y ' be a strange-looking rogue for a boy ; but for a hussy , Jack , ye would be right fair -- ye would .
Ye would be well favour for a wench . ''
`` Well , '' say Matcham , `` ye know right well that I be none . ''
`` Nay , I know that ; I do but jest , '' say Dick .
`` Ye 'll be a man before your mother , Jack .
What cheer , my bully !
Ye shall strike shrewd stroke .
Now , which , I marvel , of you or me , shall be first knight , Jack ?
for knight I shall be , or die for ` t. ` Sir Richard Shelton , Knight ' : it soundeth bravely .
But ` Sir John Matcham ' soundeth not amiss . ''
`` Prithee , Dick , stop till I drink , '' say the other , pause where a little clear spring well out of the slope into a gravelled basin no big than a pocket .
`` And O , Dick , if I might come by anything to eat !
-- my very heart ache with hunger . ''
`` Why , fool , do ye not eat at Kettley ? ''
ask Dick .
`` I have make a vow -- it be a sin I have be lead into , '' stammer Matcham ; `` but now , if it be but dry bread , I would eat it greedily . ''
`` Sit ye , then , and eat , '' say Dick , `` while that I scout a little forward for the road . ''
And he take a wallet from his girdle , wherein be bread and piece of dry bacon , and , while Matcham fell heartily to , strike farther forth among the tree .
A little beyond there be a dip in the ground , where a streamlet soak among dead leaf ; and beyond that , again , the tree be good grow and stood wider , and oak and beech begin to take the place of willow and elm .
The continue tossing and pouring of the wind among the leaf sufficiently conceal the sound of his footstep on the mast ; it be for the ear what a moonless night be to the eye ; but for all that Dick go cautiously , slip from one big trunk to another , and look sharply about him a he go .
Suddenly a doe pass like a shadow through the underwood in front of him , and he pause , disgust at the chance .
This part of the wood have be certainly desert , but now that the poor deer have run , she be like a messenger he should have send before him to announce his come ; and instead of push farther , he turn him to the near well-grown tree , and rapidly begin to climb .
Luck have serve him well .
The oak on which he have mount be one of the tall in that quarter of the wood , and easily out-topped it neighbour by a fathom and a half ; and when Dick have clamber into the topmost fork and clung there , swing dizzily in the great wind , he saw behind him the whole fenny plain as far a Kettley , and the Till wander among woody islet , and in front of him , the white line of high-road winding through the forest .
The boat have be right -- it be even now midway on the ferry .
Beyond that there be no sign of man , nor aught move but the wind .
He be about to descend , when , take a last view , his eye light upon a string of move point about the middle of the fen .
Plainly a small troop be thread the causeway , and that at a good pace ; and this give him some concern a he shin vigorously down the trunk and return across the wood for his companion .
CHAPTER IV -- A GREENWOOD COMPANY Matcham be well rest and revive ; and the two lad , wing by what Dick have see , hurry through the remainder of the outwood , cross the road in safety , and begin to mount into the high ground of Tunstall Forest .
The tree grow more and more in grove , with heathy place in between , sandy , gorsy , and dot with old yew .
The ground become more and more uneven , full of pit and hillock .
And with every step of the ascent the wind still blow the shriller , and the tree bent before the gust like fishing-rods .
They have just enter one of the clearing , when Dick suddenly clap down upon his face among the bramble , and begin to crawl slowly backward towards the shelter of the grove .
Matcham , in great bewilderment , for he could see no reason for this flight , still imitate his companion 's course ; and it be not until they have gain the harbour of a thicket that he turn and beg him to explain .
For all reply , Dick point with his finger .
At the far end of the clearing , a fir grow high above the neighbouring wood , and plant it black shock of foliage clear against the sky .
For about fifty foot above the ground the trunk grow straight and solid like a column .
At that level , it split into two massive bough ; and in the fork , like a mast-headed seaman , there stand a man in a green tabard , spy far and wide .
The sun glisten upon his hair ; with one hand he shade his eye to look abroad , and he keep slowly roll his head from side to side , with the regularity of a machine .
The lad exchange glance .
`` Let u try to the left , '' say Dick .
`` We have near fall foully , Jack . ''
Ten minute afterwards they strike into a beaten path .
`` Here be a piece of forest that I know not , '' Dick remark .
`` Where goeth me this track ? ''
`` Let u even try , '' say Matcham .
A few yard far , the path come to the top of a ridge and begin to go down abruptly into a cup-shaped hollow .
At the foot , out of a thick wood of flower hawthorn , two or three roofless gable , blacken a if by fire , and a single tall chimney mark the ruin of a house .
`` What may this be ? ''
whisper Matcham .
`` Nay , by the mass , I know not , '' answer Dick .
`` I be all at sea .
Let u go warily . ''
With beating heart , they descend through the hawthorn .
Here and there , they pass sign of recent cultivation ; fruit tree and pot herb run wild among the thicket ; a sun-dial have fall in the grass ; it seem they be tread what once have be a garden .
Yet a little farther and they come forth before the ruin of the house .
It have be a pleasant mansion and a strong .
A dry ditch be dug deep about it ; but it be now choke with masonry , and bridge by a fall rafter .
The two farther wall still stand , the sun shin through their empty window ; but the remainder of the building have collapse , and now lay in a great cairn of ruin , grime with fire .
Already in the interior a few plant be spring green among the chink .
`` Now I bethink me , '' whisper Dick , `` this must be Grimstone .
It be a hold of one Simon Malmesbury ; Sir Daniel be his bane !
'T be Bennet Hatch that burn it , now five year agone .
In sooth , 't be pity , for it be a fair house . ''
Down in the hollow , where no wind blew , it be both warm and still ; and Matcham , lay one hand upon Dick 's arm , hold up a warning finger .
`` Hist ! ''
he say .
Then come a strange sound , break on the quiet .
It be twice repeat ere they recognise it nature .
It be the sound of a big man clear his throat ; and just then a hoarse , untuneful voice break into singing .
`` Then up and spake the master , the king of the outlaw : ` What make ye here , my merry men , among the greenwood shaw ? '
And Gamelyn make answer -- he look never adown : ` O , they must need to walk in wood that may not walk in town ! ' ''
The singer pause , a faint clink of iron follow , and then silence .
The two lad stand look at each other .
Whoever he might be , their invisible neighbour be just beyond the ruin .
And suddenly the colour come into Matcham 's face , and next moment he have cross the fallen rafter , and be climb cautiously on the huge pile of lumber that fill the interior of the roofless house .
Dick would have withhold him , have he be in time ; a it be , he be fain to follow .
Right in the corner of the ruin , two rafter have fall crosswise , and protect a clear space no large than a pew in church .
Into this the lad silently lower themselves .
There they be perfectly conceal , and through an arrow-loophole command a view upon the farther side .
Peering through this , they be strike stiff with terror at their predicament .
To retreat be impossible ; they scarce dare to breathe .
Upon the very margin of the ditch , not thirty foot from where they crouch , an iron caldron bubble and steam above a glowing fire ; and close by , in an attitude of listen , a though he have catch some sound of their clambering among the ruin , a tall , red-faced , battered-looking man stand poise , an iron spoon in his right hand , a horn and a formidable dagger at his belt .
Plainly this be the singer ; plainly he have be stir the caldron , when some incautious step among the lumber have fall upon his ear .
A little further off , another man lay slumber , roll in a brown cloak , with a butterfly hover above his face .
All this be in a clearing white with daisy ; and at the extreme verge , a bow , a sheaf of arrow , and part of a deer 's carcase , hung upon a flowering hawthorn .
Presently the fellow relaxed from his attitude of attention , raise the spoon to his mouth , taste it content , nod , and then fell again to stir and sing . ''
` O , they must need to walk in wood that may not walk in town , ' '' he croak , take up his song where he have leave it .
`` O , sir , we walk not here at all an evil thing to do .
But if we meet with the good king 's deer to shoot a shaft into . ''
Still a he sing , he take from time to time , another spoonful of the broth , blow upon it , and taste it , with all the air of an experienced cook .
At length , apparently , he judge the mess be ready ; for take the horn from his girdle , he blow three modulate call .
The other fellow awoke , roll over , brush away the butterfly , and look about him .
`` How now , brother ? ''
he say .
`` Dinner ? ''
`` Ay , sot , '' reply the cook , `` dinner it be , and a dry dinner , too , with neither ale nor bread .
But there be little pleasure in the greenwood now ; time be when a good fellow could live here like a mitred abbot , set aside the rain and the white frost ; he have his heart 's desire both of ale and wine .
But now be men 's spirit dead ; and this John Amend-All , save u and guard u !
but a stuffed booby to scare crow withal . ''
`` Nay , '' return the other , `` y ' be too set on meat and drinking , Lawless .
Bide ye a bit ; the good time cometh . ''
`` Look ye , '' return the cook , `` I have even wait for this good time sith that I be so high .
I have be a grey friar ; I have be a king 's archer ; I have be a shipman , and sail the salt sea ; and I have be in greenwood before this , forsooth !
and shoot the king 's deer .
What cometh of it ?
Naught !
I be good to have bid in the cloister .
John Abbot availeth more than John Amend-All .
By ' r Lady !
here they come . ''
One after another , tall , likely fellow begin to stroll into the lawn .
Each a he come produce a knife and a horn cup , help himself from the caldron , and sit down upon the grass to eat .
They be very variously equip and arm ; some in rusty smock , and with nothing but a knife and an old bow ; others in the height of forest gallantry , all in Lincoln green , both hood and jerkin , with dainty peacock arrow in their belt , a horn upon a baldrick , and a sword and dagger at their side .
They come in the silence of hunger , and scarce growl a salutation , but fell instantly to meat .
There be , perhaps , a score of them already gather , when a sound of suppressed cheer arose close by among the hawthorn , and immediately after five or six woodman carry a stretcher debauch upon the lawn .
A tall , lusty fellow , somewhat grizzle , and as brown a a smoked ham , walk before them with an air of some authority , his bow at his back , a bright boar-spear in his hand .
`` Lads ! ''
he cry , `` good fellow all , and my right merry friend , y ' have sing this while on a dry whistle and live at little ease .
But what say I ever ?
Abide Fortune constantly ; she turneth , turneth swift .
And lo !
here be her little firstling -- even that good creature , ale ! ''
There be a murmur of applause a the bearer set down the stretcher and display a goodly cask .
`` And now haste ye , boy , '' the man continue .
`` There be work toward .
A handful of archer be but now come to the ferry ; murrey and blue be their wear ; they be our butt -- they shall all taste arrow -- no man of them shall struggle through this wood .
For , lad , we be here some fifty strong , each man of u most foully wrong ; for some they have lose land , and some friend ; and some they have be outlaw -- all oppress !
Who , then , hath do this evil ?
Sir Daniel , by the rood !
Shall he then profit ?
shall he sit snug in our house ?
shall he till our field ?
shall he suck the bone he rob u of ?
I trow not .
He getteth him strength at law ; he gaineth case ; nay , there be one case he shall not gain -- I have a writ here at my belt that , please the saint , shall conquer him . ''
Lawless the cook be by this time already at his second horn of ale .
He raise it , a if to pledge the speaker .
`` Master Ellis , '' he say , `` y ' be for vengeance -- well it becometh you !
-- but your poor brother o ' the greenwood , that have never land to lose nor friend to think upon , looketh rather , for his poor part , to the profit of the thing .
He have liever a gold noble and a pottle of canary wine than all the vengeance in purgatory . ''
`` Lawless , '' reply the other , `` to reach the Moat House , Sir Daniel must pass the forest .
We shall make that passage dearer , pardy , than any battle .
Then , when he hath get to earth with such ragged handful a escapeth u -- all his great friend fall and flee away , and none to give him aid -- we shall beleaguer that old fox about , and great shall be the fall of him .
'T be a fat buck ; he will make a dinner for u all . ''
`` Ay , '' return Lawless , `` I have eat many of these dinner beforehand ; but the cooking of them be hot work , good Master Ellis .
And meanwhile what do we ?
We make black arrow , we write rhyme , and we drink fair cold water , that discomfortable drink . ''
`` Y ' be untrue , Will Lawless .
Ye still smell of the Grey Friars ' buttery ; greed be your undoing , '' answer Ellis .
`` We take twenty pound from Appleyard .
We take seven mark from the messenger last night .
A day ago we have fifty from the merchant . ''
`` And to-day , '' say one of the men , `` I stop a fat pardoner rid apace for Holywood .
Here be his purse . ''
Ellis count the content .
`` Five score shilling ! ''
he grumble .
`` Fool , he have more in his sandal , or stitch into his tippet .
Y ' be but a child , Tom Cuckow ; ye have lose the fish . ''
But , for all that , Ellis pocket the purse with nonchalance .
He stand lean on his boar-spear , and look round upon the rest .
They , in various attitude , take greedily of the venison pottage , and liberally wash it down with ale .
This be a good day ; they be in luck ; but business press , and they be speedy in their eating .
The first-comers have by this time even despatch their dinner .
Some lay down upon the grass and fell instantly asleep , like boa-constrictors ; others talk together , or overhaul their weapon : and one , whose humour be particularly gay , hold forth an ale-horn , begin to sing : `` Here be no law in good green shaw , Here be no lack of meat ; 'T be merry and quiet , with deer for our diet , In summer , when all be sweet .
Come winter again , with wind and rain -- Come winter , with snow and sleet , Get home to your place , with hood on your face , And sit by the fire and eat . ''
All this while the two lad have listen and lie close ; only Richard have unslung his cross-bow , and hold ready in one hand the windac , or grappling-iron that he use to bend it .
Otherwise they have not dare to stir ; and this scene of forest life have go on before their eye like a scene upon a theatre .
But now there come a strange interruption .
The tall chimney which over-topped the remainder of the ruin rise right above their hiding-place .
There come a whistle in the air , and then a sound smack , and the fragment of a broken arrow fell about their ear .
Some one from the upper quarter of the wood , perhaps the very sentinel they saw post in the fir , have shoot an arrow at the chimney-top .
Matcham could not restrain a little cry , which he instantly stifle , and even Dick start with surprise , and drop the windac from his finger .
But to the fellow on the lawn , this shaft be an expected signal .
They be all afoot together , tighten their belt , test their bow-strings , loosen sword and dagger in the sheath .
Ellis hold up his hand ; his face have suddenly assume a look of savage energy ; the white of his eye shone in his sun-brown face .
`` Lads , '' he say , `` ye know your place .
Let not one man 's soul escape you .
Appleyard be a whet before a meal ; but now we go to table .
I have three men whom I will bitterly avenge -- Harry Shelton , Simon Malmesbury , and '' -- strike his broad bosom -- `` and Ellis Duckworth , by the mass ! ''
Another man come , red with hurry , through the thorn . ''
'T be not Sir Daniel ! ''
he pant .
`` They be but seven .
Is the arrow go ? ''
`` It strike but now , '' reply Ellis .
`` A murrain ! ''
cry the messenger .
`` Methought I hear it whistle .
And I go dinnerless ! ''
In the space of a minute , some running , some walk sharply , accord a their station be nearer or farther away , the men of the Black Arrow have all disappear from the neighbourhood of the ruined house ; and the caldron , and the fire , which be now burn low , and the dead deer 's carcase on the hawthorn , remain alone to testify they have be there .
CHAPTER V -- `` BLOODY AS THE HUNTER '' The lad lay quiet till the last footstep have melt on the wind .
Then they arise , and with many an ache , for they be weary with constraint , clamber through the ruin , and recrossed the ditch upon the rafter .
Matcham have pick up the windac and go first , Dick follow stiffly , with his cross-bow on his arm .
`` And now , '' say Matcham , `` forth to Holywood . ''
`` To Holywood ! ''
cry Dick , `` when good fellow stand shot ?
Not I !
I would see you hang first , Jack ! ''
`` Ye would leave me , would ye ? ''
Matcham ask .
`` Ay , by my sooth ! ''
return Dick .
`` An I be not in time to warn these lad , I will go die with them .
What !
would ye have me leave my own men that I have live among .
I trow not !
Give me my windac . ''
But there be nothing far from Matcham 's mind .
`` Dick , '' he say , `` ye sware before the saint that ye would see me safe to Holywood .
Would ye be forswear ?
Would you desert me -- a perjurer ? ''
`` Nay , I sware for the best , '' return Dick .
`` I mean it too ; but now !
But look ye , Jack , turn again with me .
Let me but warn these men , and , if need must , stand shot with them ; then shall all be clear , and I will on again to Holywood and purge mine oath . ''
`` Ye but deride me , '' answer Matcham .
`` These men ye go to succour be the I same that hunt me to my ruin . ''
Dick scratch his head .
`` I can not help it , Jack , '' he say .
`` Here be no remedy .
What would ye ?
Ye run no great peril , man ; and these be in the way of death .
Death ! ''
he add .
`` Think of it !
What a murrain do ye keep me here for ?
Give me the windac .
Saint George !
shall they all die ? ''
`` Richard Shelton , '' say Matcham , look him squarely in the face , `` would ye , then , join party with Sir Daniel ?
Have ye not ears ?
Heard ye not this Ellis , what he say ?
or have ye no heart for your own kindly blood and the father that men slew ?
` Harry Shelton , ' he say ; and Sir Harry Shelton be your father , a the sun shine in heaven . ''
`` What would ye ? ''
Dick cry again .
`` Would ye have me credit thief ? ''
`` Nay , I have hear it before now , '' return Matcham .
`` The fame goeth currently , it be Sir Daniel slew him .
He slew him under oath ; in his own house he shed the innocent blood .
Heaven wearies for the avenging o n't ; and you -- the man 's son -- ye go about to comfort and defend the murderer ! ''
`` Jack , '' cry the lad `` I know not .
It may be ; what know I ?
But , see here : This man hath breed me up and foster me , and his men I have hunt with and play among ; and to leave them in the hour of peril -- O , man , if I do that , I be stark dead to honour !
Nay , Jack , ye would not ask it ; ye would not wish me to be base . ''
`` But your father , Dick ? ''
say Matcham , somewhat waver .
`` Your father ?
and your oath to me ?
Ye take the saint to witness . ''
`` My father ? ''
cry Shelton .
`` Nay , he would have me go !
If Sir Daniel slew him , when the hour come this hand shall slay Sir Daniel ; but neither him nor his will I desert in peril .
And for mine oath , good Jack , ye shall absolve me of it here .
For the life ' sake of many men that hurt you not , and for mine honour , ye shall set me free . ''
`` I , Dick ?
Never ! ''
return Matcham .
`` An ye leave me , y ' be forswear , and so I shall declare it . ''
`` My blood heat , '' say Dick .
`` Give me the windac !
Give it me ! ''
`` I 'll not , '' say Matcham .
`` I 'll save you in your teeth . ''
`` Not ? ''
cry Dick .
`` I 'll make you ! ''
`` Try it , '' say the other .
They stand , look in each other 's eye , each ready for a spring .
Then Dick leap ; and though Matcham turn instantly and flee , in two bound he be over-taken , the windac be twist from his grasp , he be throw roughly to the ground , and Dick stand across him , flush and menace , with doubled fist .
Matcham lay where he have fall , with his face in the grass , not think of resistance .
Dick bend his bow .
`` I 'll teach you ! ''
he cry , fiercely .
`` Oath or no oath , ye may go hang for me ! ''
And he turn and begin to run .
Matcham be on his foot at once , and begin run after him .
`` What d 'ye want ? ''
cry Dick , stop .
`` What make ye after me ?
Stand off ! ''
`` Will follow an I please , '' say Matcham .
`` This wood be free to me . ''
`` Stand back , by ' r Lady ! ''
return Dick , raise his bow .
`` Ah , y ' be a brave boy ! ''
retort Matcham .
`` Shoot ! ''
Dick lower his weapon in some confusion .
`` See here , '' he say .
`` Y ' have do me ill enough .
Go , then .
Go your way in fair wise ; or , whether I will or not , I must even drive you to it . ''
`` Well , '' say Matcham , doggedly , `` y ' be the strong .
Do your bad .
I shall not leave to follow thee , Dick , unless thou makest me , '' he add .
Dick be almost beside himself .
It go against his heart to beat a creature so defenceless ; and , for the life of him , he know no other way to rid himself of this unwelcome and , a he begin to think , perhaps untrue companion .
`` Y ' be mad , I think , '' he cry .
`` Fool-fellow , I be hasting to your foe ; as fast a foot can carry me , go I thither . ''
`` I care not , Dick , '' reply the lad .
`` If y ' be bind to die , Dick , I 'll die too .
I would liever go with you to prison than to go free without you . ''
`` Well , '' return the other , `` I may stand no longer prate .
Follow me , if ye must ; but if ye play me false , it shall but little advance you , mark ye that .
Shalt have a quarrel in thine inwards , boy . ''
So say , Dick take once more to his heel , keep in the margin of the thicket and look briskly about him a he go .
At a good pace he rattle out of the dell , and come again into the more open quarter of the wood .
To the left a little eminence appear , spot with golden gorse , and crown with a black tuft of fir .
`` I shall see from there , '' he think , and strike for it across a heathy clearing .
He have go but a few yard , when Matcham touch him on the arm , and point .
To the eastward of the summit there be a dip , and , a it be , a valley passing to the other side ; the heath be not yet out ; all the ground be rusty , like an unscoured buckler , and dot sparingly with yew ; and there , one follow another , Dick saw half a score green jerkin mount the ascent , and march at their head , conspicuous by his boar-spear , Ellis Duckworth in person .
One after another gain the top , show for a moment against the sky , and then dip upon the further side , until the last be go .
Dick look at Matcham with a kindly eye .
`` So y ' be to be true to me , Jack ? ''
he ask .
`` I think ye be of the other party . ''
Matcham begin to sob .
`` What cheer ! ''
cry Dick .
`` Now the saint behold u !
would ye snivel for a word ? ''
`` Ye hurt me , '' sob Matcham .
`` Ye hurt me when ye throw me down .
Y ' be a coward to abuse your strength . ''
`` Nay , that be fool 's talk , '' say Dick , roughly .
`` Y ' have no title to my windac , Master John .
I would ` a ' do right to have well baste you .
If ye go with me , ye must obey me ; and so , come . ''
Matcham have half a thought to stay behind ; but , see that Dick continue to scour full-tilt towards the eminence and not so much a looked across his shoulder , he soon think good of that , and begin to run in turn .
But the ground be very difficult and steep ; Dick have already a long start , and have , at any rate , the lighter heel , and he have long since come to the summit , crawl forward through the fir , and ensconce himself in a thick tuft of gorse , before Matcham , pant like a deer , rejoin him , and lay down in silence by his side .
Below , in the bottom of a considerable valley , the short cut from Tunstall hamlet wound downwards to the ferry .
It be well beat , and the eye follow it easily from point to point .
Here it be border by open glade ; there the forest close upon it ; every hundred yard it run beside an ambush .
Far down the path , the sun shone on seven steel salets , and from time to time , a the tree open , Selden and his men could be see rid briskly , still bent upon Sir Daniel 's mission .
The wind have somewhat fall , but still tussle merrily with the tree , and , perhaps , have Appleyard be there , he would have draw a warning from the troubled conduct of the bird .
`` Now , mark , '' Dick whisper .
`` They be already well advanced into the wood ; their safety lieth rather in continue forward .
But see ye where this wide glade runneth down before u , and in the midst of it , these two score tree make like an island ?
There be their safety .
An they but come sound as far a that , I will make shift to warn them .
But my heart misgiveth me ; they be but seven against so many , and they but carry cross-bows .
The long-bow , Jack , will have the uppermost ever . ''
Meanwhile , Selden and his men still wind up the path , ignorant of their danger , and momently draw near hand .
Once , indeed , they pause , draw into a group , and seem to point and listen .
But it be something from far away across the plain that have arrest their attention -- a hollow growl of cannon that come , from time to time , upon the wind , and tell of the great battle .
It be worth a thought , to be sure ; for if the voice of the big gun be thus become audible in Tunstall Forest , the fight must have roll ever eastward , and the day , by consequence , go sore against Sir Daniel and the lord of the dark rise .
But presently the little troop begin again to move forward , and come next to a very open , heathy portion of the way , where but a single tongue of forest run down to join the road .
They be but just abreast of this , when an arrow shone fly .
One of the men throw up his arm , his horse rear , and both fell and struggle together in a mass .
Even from where the boy lay they could hear the rumour of the men 's voice cry out ; they could see the startled horse prance , and , presently , a the troop begin to recover from their first surprise , one fellow begin to dismount .
A second arrow from somewhat farther off glance in a wide arch ; a second rider bit the dust .
The man who be dismount lose hold upon the rein , and his horse flee galloping , and drag him by the foot along the road , bump from stone to stone , and batter by the fleeing hoof .
The four who still keep the saddle instantly break and scatter ; one wheel and rode , shrieking , towards the ferry ; the other three , with loose rein and fly raiment , come gallop up the road from Tunstall .
From every clump they pass an arrow speed .
Soon a horse fell , but the rider find his foot and continue to pursue his comrade till a second shot despatch him .
Another man fell ; then another horse ; out of the whole troop there be but one fellow leave , and he on foot ; only , in different direction , the noise of the galloping of three riderless horse be die fast into the distance .
All this time not one of the assailant have for a moment show himself .
Here and there along the path , horse or man roll , undespatched , in his agony ; but no merciful enemy break cover to put them from their pain .
The solitary survivor stand bewilder in the road beside his fall charger .
He have come the length of that broad glade , with the island of timber , point out by Dick .
He be not , perhaps , five hundred yard from where the boy lay hide ; and they could see him plainly , look to and fro in deadly expectation .
But nothing come ; and the man begin to pluck up his courage , and suddenly unslung and bent his bow .
At the same time , by something in his action , Dick recognise Selden .
At this offer of resistance , from all about him in the covert of the wood there go up the sound of laughter .
A score of men , at least , for this be the very thick of the ambush , join in this cruel and untimely mirth .
Then an arrow glance over Selden 's shoulder ; and he leap and run a little back .
Another dart strike quiver at his heel .
He make for the cover .
A third shaft leap out right in his face , and fell short in front of him .
And then the laughter be repeat loudly , rise and reecho from different thicket .
It be plain that his assailant be but bait him , a men , in those day , bait the poor bull , or a the cat still trifle with the mouse .
The skirmish be well over ; farther down the road , a fellow in green be already calmly gather the arrow ; and now , in the evil pleasure of their heart , they give themselves the spectacle of their poor fellow-sinner in his torture .
Selden begin to understand ; he utter a roar of anger , shoulder his cross-bow , and send a quarrel at a venture into the wood .
Chance favour him , for a slight cry respond .
Then , throw down his weapon , Selden begin to run before him up the glade , and almost in a straight line for Dick and Matcham .
The companion of the Black Arrow now begin to shoot in earnest .
But they be properly serve ; their chance have past ; most of them have now to shoot against the sun ; and Selden , a he run , bound from side to side to baffle and deceive their aim .
Best of all , by turn up the glade he have defeat their preparation ; there be no marksman post high up than the one whom he have just kill or wound ; and the confusion of the forester ' counsel soon become apparent .
A whistle sounded thrice , and then again twice .
It be repeat from another quarter .
The wood on either side become full of the sound of people burst through the underwood ; and a bewildered deer run out into the open , stand for a second on three foot , with nose in air , and then plunge again into the thicket .
Selden still run , bound ; ever and again an arrow follow him , but still would miss .
It begin to appear a if he might escape .
Dick have his bow arm , ready to support him ; even Matcham , forgetful of his interest , take side at heart for the poor fugitive ; and both lad glow and tremble in the ardour of their heart .
He be within fifty yard of them , when an arrow strike him and he fell .
He be up again , indeed , upon the instant ; but now he run stagger , and , like a blind man , turn aside from his direction .
Dick leap to his foot and wave to him .
`` Here ! ''
he cry .
`` This way !
here be help !
Nay , run , fellow -- run ! ''
But just then a second arrow strike Selden in the shoulder , between the plate of his brigandine , and , pierce through his jack , bring him , like a stone , to earth .
`` O , the poor heart ! ''
cry Matcham , with clasped hand .
And Dick stand petrify upon the hill , a mark for archery .
Ten to one he have speedily be shoot -- for the forester be furious with themselves , and take unawares by Dick 's appearance in the rear of their position -- but instantly , out of a quarter of the wood surprisingly near to the two lad , a stentorian voice arise , the voice of Ellis Duckworth .
`` Hold ! ''
it roar .
`` Shoot not !
Take him alive !
It be young Shelton -- Harry 's son . ''
And immediately after a shrill whistle sound several time , and be again take up and repeat farther off .
The whistle , it appear , be John Amend-All 's battle trumpet , by which he publish his direction .
`` Ah , foul fortune ! ''
cry Dick .
`` We be undone .
Swiftly , Jack , come swiftly ! ''
And the pair turn and run back through the open pine clump that cover the summit of the hill .
CHAPTER VI -- TO THE DAY 'S END It be , indeed , high time for them to run .
On every side the company of the Black Arrow be make for the hill .
Some , be good runner , or have open ground to run upon , have far outstrip the others , and be already close upon the goal ; some , follow valley , have spread out to right and leave , and outflank the lad on either side .
Dick plunge into the near cover .
It be a tall grove of oak , firm under foot and clear of underbrush , and a it lay down hill , they make good speed .
There follow next a piece of open , which Dick avoid , hold to his left .
Two minute after , and the same obstacle arising , the lad follow the same course .
Thus it follow that , while the lad , bend continually to the left , draw nearer and nearer to the high road and the river which they have cross an hour or two before , the great bulk of their pursuer be lean to the other hand , and run towards Tunstall .
The lad pause to breathe .
There be no sound of pursuit .
Dick put his ear to the ground , and still there be nothing ; but the wind , to be sure , still make a turmoil in the tree , and it be hard to make certain .
`` On again , '' say Dick ; and , tire a they be , and Matcham limp with his injured foot , they pull themselves together , and once more pelted down the hill .
Three minute later , they be breast through a low thicket of evergreen .
High overhead , the tall tree make a continuous roof of foliage .
It be a pillared grove , as high a a cathedral , and except for the holly among which the lad be struggle , open and smoothly swarded .
On the other side , push through the last fringe of evergreen , they blunder forth again into the open twilight of the grove .
`` Stand ! ''
cry a voice .
And there , between the huge stem , not fifty foot before them , they behold a stout fellow in green , sore blown with run , who instantly draw an arrow to the head and cover them .
Matcham stop with a cry ; but Dick , without a pause , run straight upon the forester , draw his dagger a he go .
The other , whether he be startle by the daring of the onslaught , or whether he be hamper by his order , do not shoot ; he stand waver ; and before he have time to come to himself , Dick bound at his throat , and send him sprawl backward on the turf .
The arrow go one way and the bow another with a sounding twang .
The disarmed forester grapple his assailant ; but the dagger shone and descend twice .
Then come a couple of groan , and then Dick rise to his foot again , and the man lay motionless , stab to the heart .
`` On ! ''
say Dick ; and he once more pelted forward , Matcham trail in the rear .
To say truth , they make but poor speed of it by now , labour dismally a they run , and catch for their breath like fish .
Matcham have a cruel stitch , and his head swam ; and a for Dick , his knee be like lead .
But they keep up the form of run with undiminished courage .
Presently they come to the end of the grove .
It stop abruptly ; and there , a few yard before them , be the high road from Risingham to Shoreby , lying , at this point , between two even wall of forest .
At the sight Dick pause ; and as soon a he stop run , he become aware of a confused noise , which rapidly grow louder .
It be at first like the rush of a very high gust of wind , but soon it become more definite , and resolve itself into the galloping of horse ; and then , in a flash , a whole company of man-at-arms come drive round the corner , sweep before the lad , and be go again upon the instant .
They ride a for their life , in complete disorder ; some of them be wound ; riderless horse gallop at their side with bloody saddle .
They be plainly fugitives from the great battle .
The noise of their passage have scarce begin to die away towards Shoreby , before fresh hoof come echo in their wake , and another deserter clatter down the road ; this time a single rider and , by his splendid armour , a man of high degree .
Close after him there follow several baggage-waggons , flee at an ungainly canter , the driver flail at the horse a if for life .
These must have run early in the day ; but their cowardice be not to save them .
For just before they come abreast of where the lad stand wondering , a man in hacked armour , and seemingly beside himself with fury , overtake the waggon , and with the truncheon of a sword , begin to cut the driver down .
Some leap from their place and plunge into the wood ; the others he sabre a they sit , curse them the while for coward in a voice that be scarce human .
