CHAPTER XIII .
Surprises .
The prince say nothing , the ambassador say nothing , Lady Rosalind say never a word till they be in the drawing-room .
It be a lovely warm evening , and the French window be wide open on the balcony , which look over the town and away north to the hill .
Below them flow the clear , green water of the Gluckthal .
And still nobody say a word .
At last the prince speak : `` This be a very strange story , Lord Kelso ! ''
`` Very , sir ! ''
say the ambassador .
`` But true , '' add the prince ; `` at least , there be no reason in the nature of thing why it should n't be true . ''
`` I can hardly believe , sir , that the conduct of Benson , whom I always find a most respectable man , deserve -- '' `` That he should be ` come for , ' '' say the prince .
`` Oh , no ; it be a mere accident , and might have happen to any of u who chance to sit down on my carpet . ''
And then the prince tell them , shortly , all about it : how the carpet be one of a number of fairy property , which have be give him at his christening ; and how so long a time have go by before he discover them ; and how , probably , the carpet have carry the butler where he have say he want to go , namely -- to the king 's Court at Falkenstein .
`` It would not matter so much , '' add the prince , `` only I have rely on make my peace with his majesty , my father , by aid of those horn and that tail .
He be set on get them ; and if the Lady Rosalind have not express a wish for them , they would to-day have be in his possession . ''
`` Oh , sir , you honour u too highly , '' murmur Lady Rosalind ; and the prince blush and say : `` Not at all !
Impossible ! ''
Then , of course , the ambassador become quite certain that his daughter be admire by the crown prince , who be on bad term with the king of the country ; and a more uncomfortable position for an ambassador -- however , they be use to them .
`` What on earth be I to do with the young man ? ''
he think .
`` He ca n't stay here for ever ; and without his carpet he ca n't get away , for the soldier have order to seize him as soon a he appear in the street .
And in the meantime Benson will be pretend that he kill the Firedrake -- for he must have get to Falkenstein by now , -- and they will be for marry him to the king 's niece , and make my butler crown prince to the kingdom of Pantouflia !
It be dreadful ! ''
Now all this time the prince be on the balcony , tell Lady Rosalind all about how he get the Firedrake do for , in the most modest way ; for , a he say : '' I do n't kill him : and it be really the Remora , poor fellow , who should marry Molly ; but he 's dead . ''
At this very moment there be a whizz in the air : something shot past them , and , through the open window , the king , the queen , Benson , and the mortal remain of the Firedrake be shoot into the ambassador 's draw - room !
-LCB- The King and Queen on the carpet : p95.jpg -RCB- CHAPTER XIV .
The King Explains .
The first who recover his voice and presence of mind be Benson .
`` Did your lordship ring for coffee ? ''
he ask , quietly ; and when he be tell `` Yes , '' he bow and withdraw , with majestic composure .
When he have go , the prince throw himself at the king 's foot , cry : `` Pardon , pardon , my liege ! ''
`` Do n't speak to me , sir ! ''
answer the king , very angrily ; and the poor prince throw himself at the foot of the queen .
But she take no notice of him whatever , no more than if he have be a fairy ; and the prince hear her murmur , a she pinch her royal arm : `` I shall waken presently ; this be nothing out of the way for a dream .
Dr. Rumpfino ascribe it to imperfect nutrition . ''
All this time , the Lady Rosalind , as pale a a marble statue , be lean against the side of the open window .
The prince think he could do nothing wiser than go and comfort her , so he induce her to sit down on a chair in the balcony , -- for he felt that he be not want in the draw - room ; -- and soon they be talk happily about the star , which have begin to appear in the summer night .
Meanwhile , the ambassador have induce the king to take a seat ; but there be no use in talk to the queen .
`` It would be a miracle , '' she say to herself , `` and miracle do not happen ; therefore this have not happen .
Presently , I shall wake up in my own bed at Falkenstein . ''
Now , Benson , William , and Thomas bring in the coffee , but the queen take no notice .
When they go away , the rest of the company slip off quietly , and the king be leave alone with the ambassador ; for the queen could hardly be say to count .
-LCB- The King and Queen : p99.jpg -RCB- `` You want to know all about it , I suppose ? ''
say his majesty , in a sulky voice .
`` Well , you have a right to it , and I shall tell you .
We be just sit down to dinner at Falkenstein , rather late , -- hour get later every year , I think -- when I hear a row in the premise , and the captain of the guard , Colonel McDougal , come and tell u that a man have arrive with the horn and tail of the Firedrake , and be claim the reward .
Her majesty and I rise and go into the out court , where we find , sit on that carpet with a glass of beer in his hand , a respectable - look upper servant , whom I recognise a your butler .
He inform u that he have just kill the beast , and show u the horn and tail , sure enough ; there they be !
The tail be like the iron handle of a pump , but the horn be genuine .
A pair be throw up by a volcano , in my great - grandfather 's time , Giglio I . -LCB- 100 -RCB- Excellent coffee this , of yours ! ''
The ambassador bow .
`` Well , we ask him where he kill the Firedrake , and he say in a garden near Gluckstein .
Then he begin to speak about the reward , and the ` perkisits , ' a he call them , which it seem he have read about in my proclamation .
Rather a neat thing ; draw it up myself , '' add his majesty .
`` Very much to the point , '' say the ambassador , wonder what the king be come to .
`` Glad you like it , '' say the king , much pleased .
`` Well , where be I ?
Oh , yes ; your man say he have kill the creature in a garden , quite near Gluckstein .
I do n't much like the whole affair : he be an alien , you see ; and then there be my niece , Molinda -- poor girl , she be certain to give trouble .
Her heart be bury , if I may say so , with poor Alphonso .
But the queen be a very remarkable woman -- very remarkable -- '' `` Very ! ''
say the Ambassador , with perfect truth . ''
` Caitiff ! '
she cry to your butler ; '' his majesty go on , '' ` perjure knave , thou li in thy throat !
Gluckstein be a hundred league from here , and how sayest thou that thou slewest the monster , and camest hither in a few hour ' space ? '
This have not occur to me , -- I be a plain king , but I at once saw the force of her majesty 's argument .
` Yes , ' say I ; ` how do you manage it ? '
But he -- your man , I mean -- be not a bit put out .
` Why , your majesty , ' say he , ' I just sit down on that there bit of carpet , wish I be here , and here I ham .
And I 'd be glad , have have the trouble , -- and my time not be my own , -- to see the colour of them perkisits , accord to the proclamation . '
On this her majesty grow more indignant , if possible .
` Nonsense ! '
she cry ; ' a story out of the Arabian Nights be not suit for a modern public , and fail to win aesthetic credence . '
These be her very word . ''
`` Her majesty 's expression be ever choice and appropriate , '' say the Ambassador . ''
` Sit down there , on the carpet , knave , ' she go on ; ` ourself and consort ' -- mean me -- ` will take our place by thy side , and I shall wish u in Gluckstein , at thy master 's !
When the experiment have fail , thy head shall from thy shoulder be shorn ! '
So your man merely say , ` Very well , mum , -- your majesty , I mean , ' and sit down .
The queen take her place at the edge of the carpet ; I sit between her and the butler , and she say , ' I wish we be in Gluckstein ! '
Then we rise , fly through the air at an astonishing pace , and here we be !
So I suppose the rest of the butler 's tale be true , which I regret ; but a king 's word be sacred , and he shall take the place of that sneak , Prigio .
But a we leave home before dinner , and a yours be over , may I request your lordship to believe that I should be delight to take something cold ? ''
The ambassador at once order a sumptuous collation , to which the king do full justice ; and his majesty be show to the royal chamber , a he complain of fatigue .
The queen accompany him , remark that she be sound asleep , but would waken presently .
Neither of them say `` Good-night '' to the prince .
Indeed , they do not see him again , for he be on the balcony with Lady Rosalind .
They find a great deal to say to each other , and at last the prince ask her to be his wife ; and she say that if the king and her father give their permission -- why , then she would !
After this she go to bed ; and the prince , who have not sleep at all the night before , felt very sleepy also .
But he know that first he have something that must be do .
So he go into the drawing-room , take his carpet , and wish to be -- now , where do you suppose ?
Beside the dead body of the Firedrake !
There he be in a moment ; and dreadful the body look , lie stark and cold in the white moonshine .
Then the prince cut off it four hoof , put them in his wallet , and with these he fly back in a second , and meet the ambassador just a he come from usher the king to bed .
Then the prince be show his own room , where he lock up the hoof , the carpet , the cap of darkness , and his other thing in an iron box ; and so he go to bed and dreamed of his Lady Rosalind .
CHAPTER XV .
The King 's Cheque .
When they all waken next morning , their first idea be confuse .
It be often confuse to waken in a strange bed , much more so when you have fly through the air , like the king , the queen , and Benson the butler .
For her part , the queen be the most perplexed of all ; for she do undeniably wake , and yet she be not at home , where she have expect to be .
However , she be a determined woman , and stand to it that nothing unusual be occur .
The butler make up his mind to claim the crown princeship and the hand of the Lady Molinda ; because , a he justly remark to William , here be such a chance to good himself a might not soon come in his way again .
As for the king , he be only anxious to get back to Falkenstein , and have the whole business settle in a constitutional manner .
The ambassador be not sorry to get rid of the royal party ; and it be propose that they should all sit down on the fly carpet , and wish themselves at home again .
But the queen would not hear of it : she say it be childish and impossible ; so the carriage be get ready for her , and she start without say a word of good-bye to anyone .
The king , Benson , and the prince be not so particular , and they simply fly back to Falkenstein in the usual way , arrive there at 11.35 -- a week before her majesty .
The king at once hold a Court ; the horn and tail of the monster be exhibit amidst general interest , and Benson and the prince be invite to state their claim .
Benson 's evidence be take first .
He decline to say exactly where or how he kill the Firedrake .
There might be more of them leave , he remark , -- young one , that would take a lot of killing , -- and he refuse to part with his secret .
Only he claim the reward , which be offer , if you remember , not to the man who kill the beast , but to him who bring it horn and tail .
This be allow by the lawyer present to be very sound law ; and Benson be cheer by the courtier , who decidedly prefer him to Prigio , and who , besides , think he be go to be crown prince .
As for Lady Molinda , she be tear by the most painful feeling ; for , much a she hat Prigio , she could not bear the idea of marry Benson .
Yet one or the other choice seem certain .
Unhappy lady !
Perhaps no girl be ever more strangely beset by misfortune !
Prince Prigio be now call on to speak .
He admit that the reward be offer for bring the horn and tail , not for kill the monster .
But be the king 's intention to go for nothing ?
When a subject only mean well , of course he have to suffer ; but when a king say one thing , be he not to be suppose to have mean another ?
Any fellow with a waggon could bring the horn and tail ; the difficult thing be to kill the monster .
If Benson 's claim be allow , the royal prerogative of say one thing and mean something else be in danger .
On hear this argument , the king so far forgot himself a to cry , `` Bravo , well say ! ''
and to clap his hand , whereon all the courtier shout and throw up their hat .
The prince then say that whoever have kill the monster could , of course , tell where to find him , and could bring his hoof .
He be ready to do this himself .
Was Mr. Benson equally ready ?
On this be interpret to him -- for he do not speak Pantouflian -- Benson grow pale with horror , but fell back on the proclamation .
He have bring the horn and tail , and so he must have the perquisite , and the Lady Molinda !
The king 's mind be so much confuse by this time , that he determine to leave it to the Lady Molinda herself .
`` Which of them will you have , my dear ? ''
he ask , in a kind voice .
But poor Molinda merely cry .
Then his majesty be almost drive to say that he would give the reward to whoever produce the hoof by that day week .
But no sooner have he say this than the prince bring them out of his wallet , and display them in open Court .
This end the case ; and Benson , after be entertain with sherry and sandwich in the steward 's room , be send back to his master .
And I regret to say that his temper be not at all improve by his failure to good himself .
On the contrary , he be unusually cross and disagreeable for several day ; but we must , perhaps , make some allowance for his disappointment .
But if Benson be irritate , and suffer from the remark of his fellow - servant , I do not think we can envy Prince Prigio .
Here he be , restore to his position indeed , but by no mean to the royal favour .
For the king dislike him as much a ever , and be as angry a ever about the death of Enrico and Alphonso .
Nay , he be even more angry ; and , perhaps , not without reason .
He call up Prigio before the whole Court , and thereon the courtier cheer like anything , but the king cry : `` Silence !
McDougal , drag the first man that shout to the serpent-house in the zoological garden , and lock him up with the rattlesnake ! ''
After that the courtier be very quiet .
`` Prince , '' say the king , a Prigio bow before the throne , `` you be restore to your position , because I can not break my promise .
But your base and malevolent nature be even more conspicuously manifest in your selfish success than in your previous dastardly contempt of duty .
Why , confound you ! ''
cry the king , drop the high style in which he have be speak , and become the father , not the monarch , -- `` why , if you could kill the Firedrake , do you let your poor little brother go and be b -- b -- b -- broil ?
Eh !
what do you say , you sneak ?
` You do n't believe there be any Firedrakes ? '
That just come of your eternal conceit and arrogance !
If you be clever enough to kill the creature -- and I admit that -- you be clever enough to know that what everybody say must be true .
` You have not generally find it so ? '
Well , you have this time , and let it be a lesson to you ; not that there be much comfort in that , for it be not likely you will ever have such another chance '' -- exactly the idea that have occur to Benson .
Here the king wept , among the tear of the lord chief justice , the poet laureate -LRB- who have be awfully frighten when he hear of the rattlesnake -RRB- , the maid of honour , the chaplain royal , and everyone but Colonel McDougal , a Scottish soldier of fortune , who maintain a military reserve .
When his majesty have recover , he say to Prigio -LRB- who have not be cry , he be too much absorb -RRB- : `` A king 's word be his bond .
Bring me a pen , somebody , and my cheque-book . ''
The royal cheque-book , bound in red morocco , be bring in by eight page , with ink and a pen .
His majesty then fill up and sign the following satisfactory document -- -LRB- Ah !
my child , how I wish Mr. Arrowsmith would do as much for me ! -RRB-
: -LCB- A cheque for ten thousand purse , payable to Prince Prigio : p114.jpg -RCB- `` There ! ''
say his majesty , cross his cheque and throw sand over it , for blotting-paper have not yet be invent ; `` there , take that , and be off with you ! ''
Prince Prigio be respectfully but rapidly obey his royal command , for he think he have good cash the royal cheque as soon a possible , when his majesty yell : `` Hi !
here !
come back !
I forget something ; you 've get to marry Molinda ! ''
CHAPTER XVI .
A Melancholy Chapter .
The prince have go some way , when the king call after him .
How he wish he have the seven-league boot on , or that he have the cap of darkness in his pocket !
If he have be so lucky , he would now have get back to Gluckstein , and cross the border with Lady Rosalind .
A million of money may not seem much , but a pair of young people who really love each other could live happily on less than the cheque he have in his pocket .
However , the king shout very loud , a he always do when he mean to be obey , and the prince saunter slowly back again .
`` Prigio ! ''
say his majesty , `` where be you off to ?
Do n't you remember that this be your wedding-day ?
My proclamation offer , not only the money -LRB- which you have -RRB- , but the hand of the Lady Molinda , which the Court chaplain will presently make your own .
I congratulate you , sir ; Molinda be a dear girl . ''
`` I have the high affection and esteem for my cousin , sir , '' say the prince , `` but -- '' `` I 'll never marry him ! ''
cry poor Molinda , kneel at the throne , where her streaming eye and hair make a pretty and touching picture .
`` Never !
I despise him ! ''
-LCB- Molinda before the King : p117.jpg -RCB- `` I be about to say , sir , '' the prince go on , `` that I can not possibly have the pleasure of wed my cousin . ''
`` The family gibbet , I presume , be in good work order ? ''
ask the king of the family executioner , a tall gaunt man in black and scarlet , who be only employ in the case of member of the blood royal .
`` Never well , sire , '' say the man , bow with more courtliness than his profession indicate .
`` Very well , '' say the king ; `` Prince Prigio , you have your choice .
There be the gallows , here be Lady Molinda .
My duty be painful , but clear .
A king 's word can not be break .
Molly , or the gibbet ! ''
The prince bow respectfully to Lady Molinda : `` Madam , my cousin , '' say he , `` your clemency will excuse my answer , and you will not misinterpret the apparent discourtesy of my conduct .
I be compel , most unwillingly , to slight your charm , and to select the Extreme Rigour of the Law .
Executioner , lead on !
Do your duty ; for me , Prigio est pret ; '' -- for this be his motto , and mean that he be ready .
Poor Lady Molinda could not but be hurt by the prince 's preference for death over marriage to her , little a she like him .
-LCB- The family executioner : p119.jpg -RCB- `` Is life , then , so worthless ?
and be Molinda so terrible a person that you prefer those arm , '' and she point to the gibbet , `` to these ? ''
-- here she hold out her own , which be very white , round and pretty : for Molinda be a good-hearted girl , she could not bear to see Prigio put to death ; and then , perhaps , she reflect that there be bad position than the queenship of Pantouflia .
For Alphonso be go -- cry would not bring him back .
`` Ah , Madam ! ''
say the prince , `` you be forgive -- '' `` For you be brave ! ''
say Molinda , feel quite a respect for him .
`` But neither your heart nor mine be ours to give .
Since mine be another 's , I understand too well the feeling of yours !
Do not let u buy life at the price of happiness and honour . ''
Then , turn to the king , the prince say : `` Sir , be there no way but by death or marriage ?
You say you can not keep half only of your promise ; and that , if I accept the reward , I must also unite myself with my unwilling cousin .
Can not the whole proclamation be annul , and will you consider the bargain void if I tear up this flimsy scroll ? ''
And here the prince flutter the cheque for 1,000,000 pound in the air .
For a moment the king be tempt ; but then he say to himself : `` Never mind , it 's only an extra penny on the income-tax . ''
Then , `` Keep your dross , '' he shout , mean the million ; `` but let me keep my promise .
To chapel at once , or -- '' and he point to the executioner .
`` The word of a king of Pantouflia be sacred . ''
`` And so be that of a crown prince , '' answer Prigio ; `` and mine be pledge to a lady . ''
`` She shall be a mourning bride , '' cry the king savagely , `` unless '' -- here he pause for a moment -- `` unless you bring me back Alphonso and Enrico , safe and well ! ''
The prince thought for the space of a flash of lightning .
`` I accept the alternative , '' he say , `` if your majesty will grant me my condition . ''
`` Name them ! ''
say the king .
`` Let me be transport to Gluckstein , leave there unguarded , and if , in three day , I do not return with my brother safe and well , your majesty shall be spar a cruel duty .
Prigio of Pantouflia will perish by his own hand . ''
The king , whose mind do not work very quickly , take some minute to think over it .
Then he saw that by grant the prince 's condition , he would either recover his dear son , or , at least , get rid of Prigio , without the unpleasantness of have him execute .
For , though some king have put their eldest son to death , and most have wish to do so , they have never be well love by the people for their Roman virtue .
`` Honour bright ? ''
say the king at last .
`` Honour bright ! ''
answer the prince , and , for the first time in many month , the royal father and son shook hand .
`` For you , madam , '' say Prigio in a stately way to Lady Molinda , `` in less than a week I trust we shall be take our vow at the same altar , and that the close of the ceremony which find u cousin will leave u brother and sister . ''
Poor Molinda merely star ; for she could not imagine what he mean .
In a moment he be go ; and have take , by the king 's permission , the fly carpet , he be back at the ambassador 's house in Gluckstein .
CHAPTER XVII .
The Black Cat and the Brethren !
Who be glad to see the prince , if it be not Lady Rosalind ?
The white rose of her cheek turn to red rose in a moment , and then back to white again , they be so alarm at the change .
So the two go into the garden together , and talk about a number of thing ; but at last the prince tell her that , before three day be over , all would be well , or all would be over with him .
For either he would have bring his brother back , sound and well , to Falkenstein , or he would not survive his dishonour .
`` It be no more than right , '' he say ; `` for have I go first , neither of them would have be send to meet the monster after I have fall .
And I should have fall , dear Rosalind , if I have face the Firedrake before I know you . ''
Then when she ask him why , and what good she have do him , he tell her all the story ; and how , before he fell in love with her , he do n't believe in fairy , or Firedrakes , or cap of darkness , or anything nice and impossible , but only in horrid useless fact , and chemistry , and geology , and arithmetic , and mathematics , and even political economy .
And the Firedrake would have make a mouthful of him , then .
So she be delight when she hear this , almost a much delight a she be afraid that he might fail in the most difficult adventure .
For it be one thing to egg on a Remora to kill a Firedrake , and quite another to find the prince if they be alive , and restore them if they be dead !
But the prince say he have his plan , and he stay that night at the ambassador 's .
Next morning he rise very early , before anyone else be up , that he might not have to say `` Good-bye '' to Lady Rosalind .
Then he fly in a moment to the old lonely castle , where nobody go for fear of ghost , ever since the Court retire to Falkenstein .
How still it be , how desert ; not a sign of life , and yet the prince be look everywhere for some living thing .
He hunt the castle through in vain , and then go out to the stable-yard ; but all the dog , of course , have be take away , and the farmer have offer home to the poultry .
At last , stretch at full length in a sunny place , the prince find a very old , half-blind , miserable cat .
The poor creature be lean , and it fur have fall off in patch ; it could no longer catch bird , nor even mouse , and there be nobody to give it milk .
But cat do not look far into the future ; and this old black cat -- Frank be his name -- have get a breakfast somehow , and be happy in the sun .
The prince stand and look at him pityingly , and he think that even a sick old cat be , in some way , happy than most men .
`` Well , '' say the prince at last , `` he could not live long anyway , and it must be do .
He will feel nothing . ''
Then he draw the sword of sharpness , and with one turn of his wrist cut the cat 's head clean off .
-LCB- Poor old Frank : p128.jpg -RCB- It do not at once change into a beautiful young lady , a perhaps you expect ; no , that be improbable , and , a the prince be in love already , would have be vastly inconvenient .
The dead cat lay there , like any common cat .
Then the prince build up a heap of straw , with wood on it , and there he lay poor pus , and set fire to the pile .
Very soon there be nothing of old black Frank leave but ash !
Then the prince run upstairs to the fairy cupboard , his heart beat loudly with excitement .
The sun be shin through the arrow-shot window , all the yellow mote be dance in it ray .
The light fell on the strange heap of fairy thing -- talisman and spell .
The prince hunt about here and there , and at last he discover six ancient water - vessel of black leather , each with a silver plate on it , and on the plate letter engrave .
This be what be write on the plate : AQVA .
DE .
FONTE .
LEONVM .
-LCB- 130 -RCB- `` Thank heaven ! ''
say the prince .
`` I think they be sure to have bring it ! ''
Then he take one of the old black-leather bottle , and run downstairs again to the place where he have burn the body of the poor old sick cat .
He open the bottle , and pour a few drop of the water on the ash and the die ember .
Up there spring a tall , white flame of fire , wave like a tongue of light ; and forth from the heap jump the most beautiful , strong , funny , black cat that ever be see !
-LCB- The Prince and the bottle : p130.jpg -RCB- It be Frank a he have be in the vigour of his youth ; and he know the prince at once , and rub himself against him and purr .
The prince lift up Frank and kiss his nose for joy ; and a bright tear roll down on Frank 's face , and make him rub his nose with his paw in the most comical manner .
Then the prince set him down , and he run round and round after his tail ; and , lastly , cock his tail up , and march proudly after the prince into the castle .
`` Oh , Frank ! ''
say Prince Prigio , `` no cat since the time of Puss in Boots be ever so well take care of a you shall be .
For , if the fairy water from the Fountain of Lions can bring you back to life -- why , there be a chance for Alphonso and Enrico ! ''
Then Prigio bustle about , get ready some cold luncheon from the store - room , take all his fairy thing that he be likely to need , sit down with them on the fly carpet , and wish himself at the mountain of the Firedrake .
`` I have the king now , '' he say ; `` for if I ca n't find the ash of my brother , by Jove !
I 'll !
-- '' Do you know what he mean to do , if he could not find his brother ?
Let every child guess !
Off he fly ; and there he be in a second , just beside poor Alphono 's garden-engine .
Then Prigio , see a little heap of grey ash beside the engine , water them with the fairy water ; and up jump Alphonso , as jolly a ever , his sword in his hand .
`` Hullo , Prigio ! ''
cry he ; `` be you come after the monster too ?
I 've be asleep , and I have a kind of dream that he beat me .
But the pair of u will tackle him .
How be Molinda ? ''
`` Prettier than ever , '' say Prigio ; `` but anxious about you .
However , the Firedrake 's dead and do for ; so never mind him .
But I leave Enrico somewhere about .
Just you sit down and wait a minute , till I fetch him . ''
The prince say this , because he do not wish Alphonso to know that he and Enrico have not have quite the best of it in the affair with the monster .
`` All right , old fellow , '' say Alphonso ; `` but have you any luncheon with you ?
Never be so hungry in my life ! ''
Prince Prigio have think of this , and he bring out some cold sausage -LRB- to which Alphonso be partial -RRB- and some bread , with which the young prince express himself satisfy .
Then Prigio go up the hill some way , first warn Alphonso not to sit on his carpet for fear of accident like that which happen to Benson .
In a hollow of the hill , sure enough there be the sword of Enrico , the diamond of the hilt gleaming in the sun .
And there be a little heap of grey ash .
The prince pour a few drop of the water from the Fountain of Lions on them , and up , of course , jump Enrico , just a Alphonso have do .
`` Sleepy old chap you be , Enrico , '' say the prince ; `` but come on , Alphonso will have finish the grub unless we look smart . ''
So back they come , in time to get their share of what be go ; and they drink the Remora 's very good health , when Prigio tell them about the fight .
But neither of them ever know that they have be dead and do for ; because Prigio invent a story that the mountain be enchant , and that , as long a the Firedrake live , everyone who come there fell asleep .
He do tell them about the fly carpet , however , which of course do not much surprise them , because they have read all about it in the Arabian Nights and other historical work .
`` And now I 'll show you fun ! ''
say Prigio ; and he ask them both to take their seat on the carpet , and wish to be in the valley of the Remora .
There they be in a moment , among the old knight whom , if you remember , the Remora have freeze into stone .
There be quite a troop of them , in all sort of armour -- Greek and Roman , and Knight Templars like Front de Boeuf and Brian du Bois Gilbert -- all the brave warrior that have try to fight the Remora since the world begin .
Then Prigio give each of his brother some of the water in their cap , and tell them to go round pour a drop or two on each frozen knight .
And a they do it , lo and behold !
each knight come alive , with his horse , and lift his sword and shout : `` Long live Prince Prigio ! ''
in Greek , Latin , Egyptian , French , German , and Spanish , -- all of which the prince perfectly understood , and speak like a native .
So he marshal them in order , and send them off to ride to Falkenstein and cry : `` Prince Prigio be come ! ''
Off they go , the horse ' hoof clattering , banner fly , sunshine glittering on the spear-point .
Off they ride to Falkenstein ; and when the king saw them come galloping in , I can tell you he have no more notion of hang Prigio .
-LCB- Riding off to Falkenstein : p136.jpg -RCB- CHAPTER XVIII .
The Very Last .
The prince return to Gluckstein on the carpet , and go to the best inn , where they din together and sleep .
Next morning they , and the ambassador , who have be tell all the story , and Lady Rosalind , float comfortably on the carpet back to Falkenstein , where the king wept like anything on the shoulder of Alphonso and Enrico .
They could not make out why he cry so , nor why Lady Molinda and Lady Kathleena cry ; but soon they be all laughing and happy again .
But then -- would you believe he could be so mean ?
-- he refuse to keep his royal promise , and restore Prigio to his crown-princeship !
Kings be like that .
But Prigio , very quietly ask for the head of the Firedrake , say he 'd pour the magic water on that , and bring the Firedrake back to life again , unless his majesty behave rightly .
This threat properly frighten King Grognio , and he apologise .
Then the king shook hand with Prigio in public , and thank him , and say he be proud of him .
As to Lady Rosalind , the old gentleman quite fell in love with her , and he send at once to the Chaplain Royal to get into his surplice , and marry all the young people off at once , without wait for wedding-cakes , and milliner , and all the rest of it .
Now , just a they be form a procession to march into church , who should appear but the queen !
Her majesty have be travel by post all the time , and , luckily , have hear of none of the doings since Prigio , Benson , and the king leave Gluckstein .
I say luckily because if she have heard of them , she would not have believe a word of them .
But when she saw Alphonso and Enrico , she be much pleased , and say : -LCB- The Queen and her son : p140.jpg -RCB- `` Naughty boys !
Where have you be hide ?
The king have some absurd story about your have be kill by a fabulous monster .
Bah !
do n't tell me .
I always say you would come back after a little trip -- do n't I , Prigio ? ''
`` Certainly , madam , '' say Prigio ; `` and I say so , too .
Did n't I say so ? ''
And all the courtier cry : `` Yes , you do ; '' but some add , to themselves , '' He always say , ` Did n't I say so ? ' ''
Then the queen be introduce to Lady Rosalind , and she say it be `` rather a short engagement , but she suppose young people understand their own affair best . ''
And they do !
So the three pair be marry , with the utmost rejoicing ; and her majesty never , her whole life long , could be get to believe that anything unusual have occur .
The honeymoon of Prince Prigio and the Crown Princess Rosalind be pass at the castle , where the prince have be desert by the Court .
But now it be delightfully fit up ; and Master Frank march about the house with his tail in the air , a if the place belong to him .
Now , on the second day of their honeymoon , the prince and princess be sit in the garden together , and the prince say , `` Are you quite happy , my dear ? ''
and Rosalind say , `` Yes ; quite . ''
But the prince do not like the tone of her voice , and he say : `` No , there 's something ; do tell me what it be . ''
`` Well , '' say Rosalind , put her head on his shoulder , and speak very low , `` I want everybody to love you as much a I do .
No , not quite so very much , -- but I want them to like you .
Now they ca n't , because they be afraid of you ; for you be so awfully clever .
Now , could n't you take the wishing cap , and wish to be no clever than other people ?
Then everybody would like you ! ''
The prince think a minute , then he say : `` Your will be law , my dear ; anything to please you .
Just wait a minute ! ''
Then he run upstairs , for the last time , to the fairy garret , and he put on the wishing cap .
`` No , '' think he to himself , `` I wo n't wish that .
Every man have one secret from his wife , and this shall be mine . ''
Then he say aloud : `` I WISH TO SEEM NO CLEVERER THAN OTHER PEOPLE . ''
Then he run downstairs again , and the princess notice a great difference in him -LRB- though , of course , there be really none at all -RRB- , and so do everyone .
For the prince remain as clever a ever he have be ; but , a nobody observe it , he become the most popular prince , and finally the best-beloved king who have ever sit on the throne of Pantouflia .
But occasionally Rosalind would say , `` I do believe , my dear , that you be really as clever a ever ! ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___Prince_Prigio_From_ '' His_Own_Fairy_Book '' .txt.out
CHAPTER I . -- How the Fairies be not Invited to Court ONCE upon a time there reign in Pantouflia a king and a queen .
With almost everything else to make them happy , they want one thing : they have no child .
This vex the king even more than the queen , who be very clever and learned , and who have hat doll when she be a child .
However , she too , in spite of all the book she read and all the picture she paint , would have be glad enough to be the mother of a little prince .
The king be anxious to consult the fairy , but the queen would not hear of such a thing .
She do not believe in fairy : she say that they have never exist ; and that she maintain , though The History of the Royal Family be full of chapter about nothing else .
Well , at long and at last they have a little boy , who be generally regard a the fine baby that have ever be see .
Even her majesty herself remark that , though she could never believe all the courtier tell her , yet he certainly be a fine child -- a very fine child .
Now , the time draw near for the christen party , and the king and queen be sit at breakfast in their summer parlour talk over it .
It be a splendid room , hung with portrait of the royal ancestor .
There be Cinderella , the grandmother of the reign monarch , with her little foot in her glass slipper thrust out before her .
There be the Marquis de Carabas , who , a everyone know , be raise to the throne a prince consort after his marriage with the daughter of the king of the period .
On the arm of the throne be seat his celebrated cat , wear boot .
There , too , be a portrait of a beautiful lady , sound asleep : this be Madame La Belle au Bois-dormant , also an ancestress of the royal family .
Many other picture of celebrated person be hang on the wall .
`` You have ask all the right people , my dear ? ''
say the king .
`` Everyone who should be ask , '' answer the queen .
`` People be so touchy on these occasion , '' say his majesty .
`` You have not forget any of our aunt ? ''
`` No ; the old cat ! ''
reply the queen ; for the king 's aunt be old-fashioned , and do not approve of her , and she know it .
`` They be very kind old lady in their way , '' say the king ; `` and be nice to me when I be a boy . ''
Then he wait a little , and remark : `` The fairy , of course , you have invite ?
It have always be usual , in our family , on an occasion like this ; and I think we have neglect them a little of late . ''
`` How can you be so absurd ?
'' cry the queen .
`` How often must I tell you that there be no fairy ?
And even if there be -- but , no matter ; pray let u drop the subject . ''
`` They be very old friend of our family , my dear , that 's all , '' say the king timidly .
`` Often and often they have be godmother to u .
One , in particular , be most kind and most serviceable to Cinderella I. , my own grandmother . ''
`` Your grandmother ! ''
interrupt her majesty .
`` Fiddle-de-dee !
If anyone put such nonsense into the head of my little Prigio -- '' But here the baby be bring in by the nurse , and the queen almost devour it with kiss .
And so the fairy be not invite !
It be an extraordinary thing , but none of the noble could come to the christen party when they learn that the fairy have not be ask .
Some be abroad ; several be ill ; a few be in prison among the Saracens ; others be captive in the den of ogre .
The end of it be that the king and queen have to sit down alone , one at each end of a very long table , array with plate and glass for a hundred guest -- for a hundred guest who never come !
`` Any soup , my dear ? ''
shout the king , through a speaking-trumpet ; when , suddenly , the air be fill with a sound like the rustling of the wing of bird .
Flitter , flitter , flutter , go the noise ; and when the queen look up , lo and behold !
on every seat be a lovely fairy , dress in green , each with a most interesting-looking parcel in her hand .
Do n't you like open parcel ?
The king do , and he be most friendly and polite to the fairy .
But the queen , though she saw them distinctly , take no notice of them .
You see , she do not believe in fairy , nor in her own eye , when she saw them .
So she talk across the fairy to the king , just a if they have not be there ; but the king behave as politely a if they be real -- which , of course , they be .
When dinner be over , and when the nurse have bring in the baby , all the fairy give him the most magnificent present .
One offer a purse which could never be empty ; and one a pair of seven-leagued boot ; and another a cap of darkness , that nobody might see the prince when he put it on ; and another a wishing-cap ; and another a carpet , on which , when he sit , he be carry wherever he wish to find himself .
Another make him beautiful for ever ; and another , brave ; and another , lucky : but the last fairy of all , a cross old thing , creep up and say , `` My child , you shall be too clever ! ''
This fairy 's gift would have please the queen , if she have believe in it , more than anything else , because she be so clever herself .
But she take no notice at all ; and the fairy go each to her own country , and none of them stay there at the palace , where nobody believe in them , except the king , a little .
But the queen toss all their nice boot and cap , carpet , purse , sword , and all , away into a dark lumber-room ; for , of course , she think that they be all nonsense , and merely old rubbish out of book , or pantomime `` property . ''
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Two -RSB- CHAPTER II .
-- Prince Prigio and his family WELL , the little prince grow up .
I think I 've tell you that his name be Prigio -- do I not ?
Well , that be his name .
You can not think how clever he be .
He argue with his nurse as soon a he could speak , which be very soon .
He argue that he do not like to be wash , because the soap get into his eye .
However , when he be tell all about the pore of the skin , and how they could not be healthy if he be not wash , he at once cease to resist , for he be very reasonable .
He argue with his father that he do not see why there should be king who be rich , while beggar be poor ; and why the king -- who be a little greedy -- should have poach egg and plum-cake at afternoon tea , while many other person go without dinner .
The king be so surprised and hurt at these remark that he box the prince 's ear , say , `` I 'll teach you to be too clever , my lad . ''
Then he remember the awful curse of the old fairy , and be sorry for the rudeness of the queen .
And when the prince , after have his ear box , say that `` force be no argument , '' the king go away in a rage .
Indeed , I can not tell you how the prince be hat by all !
He would go down into the kitchen , and show the cook how to make soup .
He would visit the poor people 's cottage , and teach them how to make the bed , and how to make plum pudding out of turnip-tops , and venison cutlet out of rusty bacon .
He show the fencing-master how to fence , and the professional cricketer how to bowl , and instruct the rat-catcher in breed terrier .
He set sum to the Chancellor of the Exchequer , and assure the Astronomer Royal that the sun do not go round the earth -- which , for my part , I believe it do .
The young lady of the court dislike dance with him , in spite of his good look , because he be always ask , `` Have you read this ? ''
and `` Have you read that ? ''
-- and when they say they have n't , he sneer ; and when they say they have , he find them out .
He find out all his tutor and master in the same horrid way ; correct the accent of his French teacher , and try to get his German tutor not to eat pea with his knife .
He also endeavour to teach the queen-dowager , his grandmother , an art with which she have long be perfectly familiar !
In fact , he know everything well than anybody else ; and the bad of it be that he do : and he never be in the wrong , and he always say , `` Did n't I tell you so ? ''
And , what be more , he have !
-LSB- Illustration : page 12 -RSB- As time go on , Prince Prigio have two young brother , whom everybody like : They be not a bit clever , but jolly .
Prince Alphonso , the third son , be round , fat , good-humoured , and as brave a a lion .
Prince Enrico , the second , be tall , thin , and a `` little sad , but never too clever . ''
Both be in love with two of their own cousin -LRB- with the approval of their dear parent -RRB- ; and all the world say , `` What nice , unaffected prince they be ! ''
But Prigio nearly get the country into several war by be too clever for the foreign ambassador .
Now , a Pantouflia be a rich , lazy country , which hat fighting , this be very unpleasant , and do not make people love Prince Prigio any good .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Three -RSB- CHAPTER III .
-- About the Firedrake .
OF all the people who do not like Prigio , his own dear papa , King Grognio , dislike him most .
For the king know he be not clever himself .
When he be in the counting-house , count out his money , and when he happen to say , `` Sixteen shilling and fourteen and twopence be three pound , fifteen , '' it make him wild to hear Prigio whisper , `` One pound , ten and twopence , '' -- which , of course , it be .
And the king be afraid that Prigio would conspire , and get make king himself -- which be the last thing Prigio really want .
He much prefer to idle about , and know everything without seem to take any trouble .
Well , the king thought and thought .
How be he to get Prigio out of the way , and make Enrico or Alphonso his successor ?
He read in book about it ; and all the book show that , if a king send his three son to do anything , it be always the young who do it , and get the crown .
And he wish he have the chance .
Well , it arrive at last .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 15 -RSB- There be a very hot summer !
It begin to be hot in March . '
All the river be dry up .
The grass do not grow .
The corn do not grow .
The thermometer explode with heat .
The barometer stand at Set Fair .
The people be much distress , and come and break the palace win-dows -- a they usually do when thing go wrong in Pantouflia .
The king consult the learn men about the Court , who tell him that probably a FIREDRAKE be in the neighbourhood .
Now , the Firedrake be a beast , or bird , about the bigness of an elephant .
Its body be make of iron , and it be always red-hot .
A more terrible and cruel beast can not be imagine ; for , if you go near it , you be at once broil by the Firedrake .
But the king be not ill-pleased : `` for , '' think he , `` of course my three son must go after the brute , the eldest first ; and , a usual , it will kill the first two , and be beat by the young .
It be a little hard on Enrico , poor boy ; but anything to get rid of that Prigio ! ''
Then the king go to Prigio , and say that his country be in danger , and that he be determine to leave the crown to whichever of them would bring him the horn -LRB- for it have horn -RRB- and tail of the Firedrake .
`` It be an awkward brute to tackle , '' the king say , `` but you be the old , my lad ; go where glory wait you !
Put on your armour , and be off with you ! ''
-LSB- Illustration : Page 17 -RSB- This the king say , hop that either the Firedrake would roast Prince Prigio alive -LRB- which he could easily do , a I have say ; for he be all over as hot a a red-hot poker -RRB- , or that , if the prince succeed , at least his country would be free from the monster .
But the prince , who be lie on the sofa do sum in compound division , for fun , say in the polite way : `` Thanks to the education your majesty have give me , I have learn that the Firedrake , like the siren , the fairy , and so forth , be a fabulous animal which do not exist .
But even granting , for the sake of argument , that there be a Firedrake , your majesty be well aware that there be no kind of use in send me .
It be always the eldest son who go out first , and come to grief on these occasion , and it be always the third son that succeed .
Send Alphonso '' -LRB- this be the young brother -RRB- , `` and he will do the trick at once .
At least , if he fail , it will be most unusual , and Enrico can try his luck . ''
Then he go back to his arithmetic and his slate , and the king have to send for Prince Alphonso and Prince Enrico .
They both come in very warm ; for they have be whip top , and the day be unusually hot .
`` Look here , '' say the king , `` just you two young one look at Prigio !
You see how hot it be , and how coolly he take it , and the country suffering ; and all on account of a Firedrake , you know , which have apparently build his nest not far off .
Well , I have ask that lout of a brother of yours to kill it , and he say -- '' `` That he do not believe in Firedrakes , '' interrupt Prigio , `` The weather 's warm enough without go out hunt ! ''
`` Not believe in Firedrakes ! ''
cry Alphonso .
`` I wonder what you do believe in !
Just let me get at the creature ! ''
for he be as brave a a lion .
`` Hi !
Page , my chain-armour , helmet , lance , and buckler !
A Molinda !
A Molinda !
'' which be his war-cry .
The page run to get the armour ; but it be so uncommonly hot that he drop it , and put his finger in his mouth , cry !
`` You have good put on flannel , Alphonso , for this kind of work , '' say Prigio .
`` And if I be you , I 'd take a light garden-engine , full of water , to squirt at the enemy . ''
`` Happy thought ! ''
say Alphonso .
`` I will ! ''
And off he go , kiss his dear Molinda , bid her keep a lot of dance for him -LRB- there be to be a dance when he have kill the Firedrake -RRB- , and then he rush to the field !
But he never come back any more !
Everyone weep bitterly -- everyone but Prince Prigio ; for he think it be a practical joke , and say that Alphonso have take the opportunity to start off on his travel and see the world .
`` There be some dreadful mistake , sir , '' say Prigio to the king .
`` You know as well a I do that the young son have always succeed , up to now .
But I entertain great hope of Enrico ! ''
And he grin ; for he fancy it be all nonsense , and that there be no Firedrakes .
Enrico be present when Prigio be console the king in this unfeeling way .
`` Enrico , my boy , '' say his majesty , `` the task await you , and the honour .
When you come back with the horn and tail of the Fire-drake , you shall be crown prince ; and Prigio shall be make an usher at the Grammar School -- it be all he be fit for . ''
Enrico be not quite so confident a Alphonso have be .
He insist on make his will ; and he write a poem about the pleasure and advantage of die young .
This be part of it : The violet be a blossom sweet , That droop before the day be do -- Slain by thine overpower heat , O Sun !
And I , like that sweet purple flower , May roast , or boil , or broil , or bake , If burn by thy terrific power , Firedrake !
This poem comfort Enrico more or less , and he show it to Prigio .
But the prince only laugh , and say that the second line of the last verse be not very good ; for violet do not `` roast , or boil , or broil , or bake . ''
Enrico try to improve it , but could not .
So he read it to his cousin , Lady Kathleena , just a it be ; and she cry over it -LRB- though I do n't think she understand it -RRB- ; and Enrico cry a little , too .
However , next day he start , with a spear , a patent refrigerator , and a lot of the bottle people throw at fire to put them out .
But he never come back again !
After shed torrent of tear , the king summon Prince Prigio to his presence .
`` Dastard ! ''
he say .
`` Poltroon !
Your turn , which should have come first , have arrive at last .
You must fetch me the horn and the tail of the Fired rake .
Probably you will be grill , thank goodness ; but who will give me back Enrico and Alphonso ? ''
`` Indeed , your majesty , '' say Prigio , `` you must permit me to correct your policy .
Your only reason for dispatch your son in pursuit of this dangerous but I believe fabulous animal , be to ascertain which of u would most worthily succeed to your throne , at the date -- long may it be defer !
-- of your lamented decease .
Now , there can be no further question about the matter .
I , unworthy a I be , represent the sole hope of the royal family .
Therefore to send me after the Firedrake be * both dangerous and unnecessary .
Dangerous , because , if he treat me a you say he do my brother -- my unhappy brother , -- the throne of Pantouflia will want an heir .
But , if I do come back alive -- why , I can not be more the true heir than I be at present ; now can I ?
Ask the Lord Chief Justice , if you do n't believe me . ''
* Subjunctive mood !
He be a great grammarian !
These argument be so clearly and undeniably correct that the king , unable to answer them , withdraw into a solitary place where he could express himself with freedom , and give rein to his passion .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Four -RSB- CHAPTER IV .
-- How Prince Prigio be desert by Everybody MEANWHILE , Prince Prigio have to suffer many unpleasant thing .
Though he be the crown prince -LRB- and though his argument be unanswerable -RRB- , everybody shun him for a coward .
The queen , who do not believe in Firedrakes , alone take his side .
He be not only avoid by all , but he have most disagreeable scene with his own cousin , Lady Molinda and Lady Kathleena .
In the garden Lady Molinda meet him walk alone , and do not bow to him .
`` Dear Molly , '' say the prince , who like her , `` how have I be so unfortunate a to offend you ? ''
`` My name , sir , be Lady Molinda , '' she say , very proudly ; `` and you have send your own brother to his grave ! ''
-LSB- Illustration : Page 24 -RSB- `` Oh , excuse me , '' say the prince , `` I be certain he have merely go off on his travel .
He 'll come back when he 's tired : there be no Firedrakes ; a French writer say they be ` purement fabuleux , purely fabulous , you know . ''
`` Prince Alphonso have go on his travel , and will come back when he be tired !
And be he then -- tire -- of me ? ''
cry poor Molinda , burst into tear , and forget her dignity .
`` Oh !
I beg your pardon , I never notice ; I 'm sure I be very sorry , '' cry the prince , who , never have be in love himself , never think of other people .
And he try to take Molinda 's hand , but she snatch it from him and run away through the garden to the palace , leave Prince Prigio to feel foolish , for once , and ashamed .
As for Lady Kathleena , she sweep past him like a queen , without a word .
So the prince , for all his cleverness , be not happy .
After several day have go by , the king return from the solitary place where he have be speak his mind .
He now felt calmer and good ; and so at last he come back to the palace .
But on see Prince Prigio , who be loll in a hammock , translate Egyptian hieroglyph into French poetry for his mother , the king break out afresh , and make use of the most cruel and impolite expression .
At last , he give order that all the Court should pack up and move to a distant city ; and that Prince Prigio should be leave alone in the palace by himself .
For he be quite unendurable , the king say , and he could not trust his own temper when he think of him .
And he grow so fierce , that even the queen be afraid of him now .
The poor queen cry a good deal ; Prigio be her favourite son , on account of his acknowledged ability and talent .
But the rest of the courtier be delight at leave Prince Prigio behind .
For his part , he , very good-naturedly , show them the best and short road to Falkenstein , the city where they be go ; and easily prove that neither the chief secretary for geography , nor the general of the army , know anything about the matter -- which , indeed , they do not .
The ungrateful courtier leave Prigio with hoot and yell , for they dislike him so much that they forget he would be king one day .
He therefore remind them of this little fact in future history , which make them feel uncomfortable enough , and then lay down in his hammock and go to sleep .
When he waken , the air be cold and the day be begin to grow dark .
Prince Prigio think he would go down and dine at a tavern in the town , for no servant have be leave with him .
But what be his annoyance when he find that his boot , his sword , his cap , his cloak -- all his clothes , in fact , except those he wear , -- have be take away by the courtier , merely to spite him !
His wardrobe have be ransack , and everything that have not be carry off have be cut up , burn , and destroy .
Never be such a spectacle of wicked mischief .
It be a if hay have be make of everything he possess .
What be bad , he have not a penny in his pocket to buy new thing ; and his father have stop his allowance of fifty thousand pound a month .
Can you imagine anything more cruel and unjust than this conduct ?
for it be not the prince 's fault that he be so clever .
The cruel fairy have make him so .
But , even if the prince have be bear clever -LRB- a may have happen to you -RRB- , be he to be blame for that ?
The other people be just as much in fault for be bear so stupid ; but the world , my dear child , can never be induce to remember this .
If you be clever , you will find it best not to let people know it -- if you want them to like you .
Well , here be the prince in a pretty plight .
Not a pound in his pocket , not a pair of boot to wear , not even a cap to cover his head from the rain ; nothing but cold meat to eat , and never a servant to answer the bell .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Five -RSB- CHAPTER V. -- What Prince Prigio find in the garret .
THE prince walk from room to room of the palace ; but , unless he wrap himself up in a curtain , there be nothing for him to wear when he go out in the rain .
At last he climb up a turret-stair in the very old part of the castle , where he have never be before ; and at the very top be a little round room , a kind of garret .
The prince push in the door with some difficulty -- not that it be lock , but the handle be rusty , and the wood have swell with the damp .
The room be very dark ; only the last grey light of the rainy evening come through a slit of a window , one of those narrow window that they use to fire arrow out of in old time .
But in the dusk the prince saw a heap of all sort of thing lie on the floor and on the table .
There be two cap ; he put one on -- an old , grey , ugly cap it be , make of felt .
There be a pair of boot ; and he kick off his slipper , and get into them .
They be a good deal worn , but fit a if they have be make for him .
On the table be a purse with just three gold coin -- old one , too -- in it ; and this , a you may fancy , the prince be very well pleased to put in his pocket .
A sword , with a sword-belt , he buckle about his waist ; and the rest of the article , a regular collection of odds and end , he leave just where they be lie .
Then he run downstairs , and walk out of the hall door .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Six -RSB- CHAPTER VI .
-- What Happened to Prince Prigio in Town BY this time the prince be very hungry .
The town be just three mile off ; but he have such a royal appetite , that he do not like to waste it on bad cookery , and the people of the royal town be bad cook .
`` I wish I be in ` The Bear , ' at Gluck-stein , '' say he to himself ; for he remember that there be a very good cook there .
But , then , the town be twenty-one league away -- sixty-three long mile !
No sooner have the prince say this , and take just three step , than he find himself at the door of the `` Bear Inn '' at Gluckstein !
`` This be the most extraordinary dream , '' say he to himself ; for he be far too clever , of course , to believe in seven-league boot .
Yet he have a pair on at that very moment , and it be they which have carry him in three stride from the palace to Gluckstein !
The truth be , that the prince , in look about the palace for clothes , have find his way into that very old lumber-room where the magical gift of the fairy have be throw by his clever mother , who do not believe in them .
But this , of course , the prince do not know .
Now you should be tell that seven-league boot only take those prodigious step when you say you want to go a long distance .
Otherwise they would be very inconvenient -- when you only want to cross the room , for example .
Perhaps this have not be explain to you by your governess ?
Well , the prince walk into `` The Bear , '' and it seem odd to him that nobody take any notice of him .
And yet his face be as well know a that of any man in Pantouflia ; for everybody have see it , at least in picture .
He be so puzzle by not be attend to a usual , that he quite forget to take off his cap .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 31 -RSB- He sit down at a table , however , and shout '' Kellner !
'' at which all the waiter jump , and look round in every direction , but nobody come to him .
At first he think they be too busy , but presently another explanation occur to him .
`` The king , '' say he to himself , `` have threaten to execute anybody who speak to me , or help me in any way .
Well , I do n't mean to starve in the midst of plenty , anyhow ; here go ! ''
The prince rise , and go to the table in the midst of the room , where a huge roast turkey have just be place .
He help himself to half the breast , some sausage , chestnut stuffing , bread sauce , potato , and a bottle of red wine -- Burgundy .
He then go back to a table in a corner , where he din very well , nobody take any notice of him .
When he have finish , he sit watch the other people din , and smoke his cigarette .
As he be sit thus , a very tall man , an officer in the uniform of the Guards , come in , and , walk straight to the prince 's table , say : `` Kellner , clean this table , and bring in the bill of fare . ''
With these word , the officer sit down suddenly in the prince 's lap , a if he do not see him at all .
He be a heavy man , and the prince , enrage at the insult , push him away and jump to his foot .
As he do so , his cap drop off .
The officer fell on his knee at once , cry : `` Pardon , my prince , pardon !
I never saw you ! ''
This be more than the prince could be expect to believe .
`` Nonsense !
Count Frederick von Matterhorn , '' he say ; `` you must be intoxicate .
Sir !
you have insult your prince and your superior officer .
Consider yourself under arrest !
You shall be send to a prison to-morrow . ''
On this , the poor officer appeal piteously to everybody in the tavern .
They all declare that they have not see the prince , nor ever have an idea that he be do them the honour of be in the neighbourhood of their town .
More and more offended , and convince that there be a conspiracy to annoy and insult him , the prince shout for the landlord , call for his bill , throw down his three piece of gold without ask for change , and go into the street .
`` It be a disgraceful conspiracy , '' he say .
`` The king shall answer for this !
I shall write to the newspaper at once ! ''
He be not put in a good temper by the way in which people hustle him in the street .
They run against him exactly a if they do not see him , and then stagger back in the great surprise , look in every direction for the person they have jostle .
In one of these encounter , the prince push so hard against a poor old beggar woman that she fell down .
As he be usually most kind and polite , he pull off his cap to beg her pardon , when , behold , the beggar woman give one dreadful scream , and faint !
A crowd be collect , and the prince , forget that he have throw down all his money in the tavern , pull out his purse .
Then he remember what he have do , and expect to find it empty ; but , lo , there be three piece of gold in it !
Overcome with surprise , he thrust the money into the woman 's hand , and put on his cap again .
In a moment the crowd , which have be star at him , rush away in every direction , with cry of terror , declare that there be a magician in the town , and a fellow who could appear and disappear at pleasure !
-LSB- Illustration : Page 35 -RSB- By this time , you or I , or anyone who be not so extremely clever a Prince Prigio , would have understand what be the matter .
He have put on , without know it , not only the seven-league boot , but the cap of darkness , and have take Fortunatus 's purse , which could never be empty , however often you take all the money out .
All those and many other delightful war the fairy have give him at his christening , and the prince have find them in the dark garret .
But the prince be so extremely wise , and learn , and scientific , that he do not believe in fairy , nor in fairy gift .
`` It be indigestion , '' he say to himself : `` those sausage be not of the best ; and that Burgundy be extremely strong .
Things be not a they appear . ''
Here , a he be argue with himself , he be nearly run over by a splendid carriage and six , the driver of which never take the slight notice of him .
Annoyed at this , the prince leap up behind , throw down the two footman , who make no resistance , and so be carry to the door of a magnificent palace .
He be determine to challenge the gentleman who be in the carriage ; but , notice that he have a very beautiful young lady with him , whom he have never see before , he follow them into the house , not wish to alarm the girl , and mean to speak to the gentleman when he find him alone .
A great ball be go on ; but , a usual , nobody take any notice of the prince .
He walk among the guest , be careful not to jostle them , and listen to their conversation .
It be all about himself !
Everyone have hear of his disgrace , and almost everyone cried `` Serve him right ! ''
They say that the air he give himself be quite unendurable -- that nothing be more rude than to be always in the right -- that cleverness might be carry far too far -- that it be well even to be bear stupid -LRB- `` Like the rest of you , '' think the prince -RRB- ; and , in fact , nobody have a good word for him .
Yes , one have !
It be the pretty lady of the carriage .
I never could tell you how pretty she be .
She be tall , with cheek like white rose blushing : she have dark hair , and very large dark-grey eye , and her face be the kind in the world !
The prince first think how nice and good she look , even before he think how pretty she look .
She stand up for Prince Prigio when her partner would speak ill of him .
She have never see the prince , for she be but newly come to Pantouflia ; but she declare that it be his misfortune , not his fault , to be so clever .
`` And , then , think how hard they make him work at school !
Besides , '' say this kind young lady , `` I hear he be extremely handsome , and very brave ; and he have a good heart , for he be kind , I have hear , to a poor boy , and do all his examination paper for him , so that the boy pass first in everything .
And now he be Minister for Education , though he ca n't do a line of Greek prose ! ''
The prince blush at this , for he know his conduct have not be honourable .
But he at once fell over head and ear in love with the young lady , a thing he have never do in his life before , because -- he say -- `` woman be so stupid ! ''
You see he be so clever !
Now , at this very moment -- when the prince , all of a sudden , be a deep in love a if he have be the stupid officer in the room -- an extraordinary thing happen !
Something seem to give a whirr !
in his brain , and in one instant he know all about it !
He believe in fairy and fairy gift , and understood that his cap be the cap of darkness , and his shoe the seven-league boot , and his purse the purse of Fortunatus !
He have read about those thing in historical book : but now he believe in them .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Seven -RSB- CHAPTER VII .
-- The Prince Falls in Love HE understand all this , and burst out laughing , which nearly frighten an old lady near him out of her wit .
Ah !
how he wish he be only in even dress , that he might dance with the charm young lady .
But there he be , dressed just a if he be go out to hunt , if anyone could have see him .
So , even if he take off his cap of darkness , and become visible , he be no figure for a ball .
Once he would not have care , but now he care very much indeed .
But the prince be not clever for nothing .
He think for a moment , then go out of the room , and , in three step of the seven-league boot , be at his empty , dark , cold palace again .
He strike a light with a flint and steel , light a torch , and run upstairs to the garret .
The flare light of the torch fell on the pile of `` rubbish , '' a the queen would have call it , which he turn over with eager hand .
Was there -- yes , there be another cap !
There it lay , a handsome green one with a red feather .
The prince pull off the cap of darkness , put on the other , and say : '' I wish I be dress in my best suit of white and gold , with the royal Pantouflia diamonds !
'' In one moment there he be in white and gold , the great and most magnificent dandy in the whole world , and the handsome man !
`` How about my boot , I wonder , '' say the prince ; for his seven-league boot be stout riding-boots , not good to dance in , whereas now he be in elegant shoe of silk and gold .
He throw down the wishing cap , put on the other -- the cap of darkness -- and make three stride in the direction of Gluckstein .
But he be only three step nearer it than he have be , and the seven-league boot be stand beside him on the floor !
`` No , '' say the prince ; `` no man can be in two different pair of boot at one and the same time !
That 's mathematics ! ''
He then hunt about in the lumber-room again till he find a small , shabby , old Persian carpet , the size of a hearthrug .
He go to his own room , take a portmanteau in his hand , sit down on the carpet , and say : `` I wish I be in Gluckstein . ''
In a moment there he find himself ; for this be that famous carpet which Prince Hussein buy long ago , in the market at Bisnagar , and which the fairy have bring , with the other present , to the christening of Prince Prigio .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 40 -RSB- When he arrive at the house where the ball be go on , he put the magical carpet in the portmanteau , and leave it in the cloakroom , receive a numbered ticket in exchange .
Then he march in all his glory -LRB- and , of course , without the cap of darkness -RRB- into the room where they be dance .
Everybody make place for him , bow down to the ground , and the loyal band strike up The Prince 's March : Heaven bless our Prince Prigio !
What be there he do n't know ?
Greek , Swiss , German -LRB- High and Low -RRB- , And the name of the mountain in Mexico , Heaven bless the prince !
He use to be very fond of this march , and the word -- some people even say he have make them himself .
But now , somehow , he do n't much like it .
He go straight to the Duke of Stumpfelbahn , the Hereditary Master of the Ceremonies , and ask to be introduce to the beautiful young lady .
She be the daughter of the new English Ambassador , and her name be Lady Rosalind .
But she nearly faint when she hear who it be that wish to dance with her , for she be not at all particularly clever ; and the prince have such a bad character for snub girl , and ask them difficult question .
However , it be impossible to refuse , and so she dance with the prince , and he dance very well .
Then they sit out in the conservatory , among the flower , where nobody come near them ; and then they dance again , and then the Prince take her down to supper .
And all the time he never once say , `` Have you read this ?
'' or `` Have you read that ?
'' or , `` What !
you never heard of Alexander the Great ? ''
or Julius Caesar , or Michael Angelo , or whoever it might be -- horrid , difficult question he use to ask .
That be the way he use to go on : but now he only talk to the young lady about herself ; and she quite leave off be shy or frighten , and ask him all about his own country , and about the Firedrake shooting , and say how fond she be of hunt herself .
And the prince say : `` Oh , if you wish it , you shall have the horn and tail of a Firedrake to hang up in your hall , to-morrow evening ! ''
Then she ask if it be not very dangerous work , Firedrake hunting ; and he say it be nothing , when you know the trick of it : and he ask her if she would but give him a rise out of her bouquet ; and , in short , he make himself so agreeable and unaffected , that she think him very nice indeed .
For , even a clever person can be nice when he like -- above all , when he be not think about himself .
And now the prince be think of nothing in the world but the daughter of the English Ambassador , and how to please her-He got introduce to her father too , and quite win his heart ; and , at last , he be invite to dine next day at the Embassy .
In Pantouflia , it be the custom that a ball must not end while one of the royal family go on dance .
This ball last till the light come in , and the bird be sing out of door , and all the mother present be sound asleep .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 42 -RSB- Then nothing would satisfy the prince , but that they all should go home singing through the street ; in fact , there never have be so merry a dance in all Pantouflia .
The prince have make a point of dance with almost every girl there : and he have suddenly become the most beloved of the royal family .
But everything must end at last ; and the prince , put on the cap of darkness and sit on the famous carpet , fly back to his lonely castle .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Eight -RSB- CHAPTER VIII .
-- The Prince be Puzzled PRINCE PRIGIO do not go to bed .
It be bright daylight , and he have promise to bring the horn and tail of a Firedrake a a present to a pretty lady .
He have say it be easy to do this ; but now , a he sit and think over it , he do not feel so victorious .
`` First , '' he say , `` where be the Firedrake ? ''
He reflect for a little , and then run upstairs to the garret .
`` It should be here ! ''
he cry , toss the fairy ' gift about ; `` and , by George , here it be ! ''
Indeed , he have find the spyglass of carved ivory which Prince Ali , in the Arabian Nights , buy in the bazaar in Schiraz .
Now , this glass be make so that , by look through it , you could see anybody or anything you wish , however far away .
Prigio 's first idea be to look at his lady .
`` But she do not expect to be look at , '' he think ; `` and I wo n't !
'' On the other hand , he determine to look at the Firedrake ; for , of course , he have no delicacy about spy on him , the brute .
The prince clap the glass to his eye , star out of window , and there , sure enough , he saw the Firedrake .
He be float about in a sea of molten lava , on the top of a volcano .
There he be , swim and dive for pleasure , toss up the flaming wave , and blow fountain of fire out of his nostril , like a whale spouting !
-LSB- Illustration : Page 44 -RSB- The prince do not like the look of him .
`` With all my cap of darkness , and my shoe of swiftness , and my sword of sharpness , I never could get near that beast , '' he say ; `` and if I do stalk him , I could not hurt him .
Poor little Alphonso !
poor Enrico !
what plucky fellow they be !
I fancy that there be no such thing a a Firedrake : he 's not in the Natural History book ; and I think the boy be only make fun , and would be back soon , safe and sound .
How horrid be too clever make one !
And now , what be I to do ? ''
What be he to do , indeed ?
And what would you have do ?
Bring the horn and tail he must , or perish in the adventure .
Otherwise , how could he meet his lady ?
-- why , she would think him a mere braggart .
The prince sit down , and think and think ; and the day go on , and it be now high noon .
At last he jump up and rush into the library , a room where nobody ever go except himself and the queen .
There he turn the book upside down , in his haste , till he find an old one , by a French gentleman , Monsieur Cyrano de Bergerac .
It be an account of a voyage to the moon , in which there be a great deal of information about matter not generally know ; for few traveller have be to the moon .
In that book , Prince Prigio fancy he would find something he half remembered , and that would be of use to him .
And he do !
So you see that cleverness , and mind your book , have some advantage , after all .
For here the prince learn that there be a very rare beast call a Remora , which be at least as cold a the Firedrake be hot !
`` Now , '' think he , '' if I can only make these two fight , why the Remora may kill the Firedrake , or take the heat out of him , at least , so that I may have a chance . ''
Then he seize the ivory glass , clap it to his eye , and look for the Remora .
Just the tip of his nose , as white a snow and as smooth a ice , be stick out of a chink in a frozen mountain , not far from the burn mountain of the Firedrake .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 46 -RSB- `` Hooray ! ''
say the prince softly to himself ; and he jump like mad into the winged shoe of swiftness , stick on the cap of darkness , girdle himself with the sword of sharpness , and put a good slice of bread , with some cold tongue , in a wallet , which he sling on his back .
Never you fight , if you can help it , except with plenty of food to keep you go and in good heart .
Then off he fly , and soon he reach the volcano of the Firedrake .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Nine -RSB- CHAPTER IX .
-- The Prince and the Firedrake IT be dreadfully hot , even high up in the air , where the prince hung invisible .
Great burn stone be toss up by the volcano , and nearly hit him several time .
Moreover , the steam and smoke , and the flame which the Firedrake spout like foam from his nostril , would have daunt even the brave man .
The side of the hill , too , be cover with the blackened ash of his victim , whom he have roast when they come out to kill him .
The garden-engine of poor little Alphonso be lie in the valley , all broken and useless .
But the Firedrake , as happy a a wild duck on a lonely lock , be roll and dive in the liquid flame , all red-hot and full of frolic .
`` Hi ! ''
shout the prince .
The Firedrake rise to the surface , his horn as red a a red crescent-moon , only big , and lash the fire with his hoof and his blazing tail .
`` Who 's there ? ''
he say in a hoarse , angry voice .
`` Just let me get at you ! ''
`` It 's me , '' answer the prince .
It be the first time he have forget his grammar , but he be terribly excite .
`` What do you want ? ''
grunt the beast .
`` I wish I could see you '' ; and , horrible to relate , he rise on a pair of wide , flaming wing , and come right at the prince , guide by the sound of his voice .
Now , the prince have never hear that Fire-drakes could fly ; indeed , he have never believe in them at all , till the night before .
For a moment he be numb with terror ; then he fly down like a stone to the very bottom of the hill and shout : `` Hi ! ''
`` Well , '' grunt the Firedrake , `` what 's the matter ?
Why ca n't you give a civil answer to a civil question ? ''
`` Will you go back to your hole and swear , on your honour a a Firedrake , to listen quietly ? ''
`` On my sacred word of honour , '' say the beast , casually scorch an eagle that flew by into ash .
The cinder fell , jingle and crackle , round the prince in a little shower .
Then the Firedrake dive back , with an awful splash of flame , and the mountain roar round him .
The prince now flew high above him , and cry : `` A message from the Remora .
He say you be afraid to fight him . ''
`` Do n't know him , '' grunt the Firedrake .
`` He send you his glove , '' say Prince Prigio , `` a a challenge to mortal combat , till death do you part . ''
Then he drop his own glove into the fiery lake .
`` Does he ? ''
yell the Firedrake .
`` Just let me get at him ! ''
and he scramble out , all red-hot a he be .
`` I 'll go and tell him you 're come , '' say the prince ; and with two stride he be over the frozen mountain of the Remora .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Ten -RSB- CHAPTER X . -- The Prince and the Remora If he have be too warm before , the prince be too cold now .
The hill of the Remora be one solid mass of frozen steel , and the cold rush out of it like the breath of some icy beast , which indeed it be .
All around be thing like marble statue of men in armour : they be the dead body of the knight , horse and all , who have go out of old to fight the Remora , and who have be frost up by him .
The prince felt his blood stand still , and he grow faint ; but he take heart , for there be no time to waste .
Yet he could nowhere see the Remora .
`` Hi ! ''
shout the prince .
Then , from a narrow chink at the bottom of the smooth , black hill , -- a chink no deep than that under a door , but a mile wide , -- steal out a hideous head !
It be as fiat a the head of a skate-fish , it be deathly pale , and two chill-blue eye , dead-coloured like stone , look out of it .
Then there come a whisper , like the breath of the bitter east wind on a wintry day : `` Where be you , and how can I come to you ? ''
`` Here I be ! ''
say the prince from the top of the hill .
Then the flat , white head set itself against the edge of the chink from which it have peep , and slowly , like the movement of a sheet of ice , it slip upwards and curl upwards , and up , and up !
There seem no end to it at all ; and it move horribly , without foot , hold on by it own frost to the slippery side of the frozen hill .
Now all the low part of the black hill be cover with the horrid white thing coil about it in smooth , flat shiny coil ; and still the head be high than the rest ; and still the icy cold come nearer and nearer , like Death .
The prince almost faint : everything seem to swim ; and in one moment more he would have fall stiff on the mountain-top , and the white head would have crawl over him , and the cold coil would have slip over him and turn him to stone .
And still the thing slip up , from the chink under the mountain .
But the prince make a great effort ; he move , and in two step he be far away , down in the valley where it be not so very cold .
`` Hi ! ''
he shout , as soon a his tongue could move within his chatter teeth .
There come a clear , hiss answer , like frozen word drop round him : `` Wait till I come down .
What do you want ? ''
Then the white fold begin to slide , like melt ice , from the black hill .
Prince Prigio felt the air get warm behind him , and colder in front of him .
He look round , and there be the tree begin to blacken in the heat , and the grass look like a sea of fire along the plain ; for the Firedrake be come !
The prince just take time to shout , `` The Firedrake be go to pay you a visit ! ''
and then he soar to the top of a neighbouring hill , and look on at what follow .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Eleven -RSB- CHAPTER XI .
-- The Battle IT be an awful sight to behold !
When the Remora hear the name of the Firedrake , his hated enemy , he slip with wonderful speed from the cleft of the mountain into the valley .
On and on and on he pour over rock and tree , a if a frozen river could slide downhill ; on and on , till there be mile of him stretch along the valley -- mile of the smooth-ribbed , icy creature , crawl and slip forward .
The green tree drop their leaf a he advance ; the bird fell down dead from the sky , slain by his frosty breath !
But , fast a the Remora stole forward , the Firedrake come quicker yet , fly and clash his fiery wing .
At last they be within striking distance ; and the Firedrake , stoop from the air , dash with his burning horn and flame foot slap into the body of the Remora .
Then there rise a steam so dreadful , such a white yet fiery vapour of heat , that no one who have not the prince 's magic glass could have see what happen .
With horrible grunt and roar the Firedrake try to burn his way right through the flat body of the Remora , and to chase him to his cleft in the rock .
But the Remora , hiss terribly , and visibly melt away in place , yet hold his ground ; and the prince could see his cold white fold climb slowly up the hoof of the Firedrake -- up and up , till they reach his knee , and the great burning beast roar like a hundred bull with the pain .
Then up the Firedrake leap , and hover on his fiery wing , he light in the midst of the Remora 's back , and dash into it with his horn .
But the flat , cruel head writhe backwards , and , slowly bend over on itself , the wounded Remora slide greedily to fasten again on the limb of the Firedrake .
Meanwhile , the prince , safe on his hill , be lunch on the loaf and the cold tongue he have bring with him .
`` Go it , Remora !
Go it , Firedrake !
you 're gain .
Give it him , Remora ! ''
he shout in the wild excitement .
Nobody have ever see such a battle ; he have it all to himself , and he never enjoy anything more .
He hat the Remora so much , that he almost wish the Firedrake could beat it ; for the Firedrake be the more natural beast of the pair .
Still , he be alarm when he saw that the vast flat body of the Remora be now slowly coil backwards , backwards , into the cleft below the hill ; while a thick wet mist show how cruelly it have suffer .
But the Firedrake , too , be in an unhappy way ; for his leg be now cold and black , his horn be black also , though his body , especially near the heart , glow still like red-hot iron .
`` Go it , Remora ! ''
cry the prince : `` his leg be give way ; he 's groggy on his pin !
One more effort , and he wo n't be able to move ! ''
Encouraged by this advice , the white , slippery Remora stream out of his cavern again , more and more of him uncoil , a if the mountain be quite full of him .
He have lose strength , no doubt : for the steam and mist go up from him in cloud , and the hissing of his angry voice grow fainter ; but so do the roar of the Firedrake .
Presently they sound more like groan ; and at last the Remora slip up his leg above the knee , and fasten on his very heart of fire .
Then the Firedrake stand groan like a black bull , knee-deep in snow ; and still the Remora climb and climb .
`` Go it now , Firedrake ! ''
shout the prince ; for he know that if the Remora win , it would be too cold for him to draw near the place , and cut off the Firedrake 's head and tail .
`` Go it , Drake !
he 's slacken ! ''
cry the prince again ; and the brave Firedrake make one last furious effort , and rise on his wing , drop just on the spine of his enemy .
The wounded Remora curl back his head again on himself , and again crawl , steam terribly , towards his enemy .
But the struggle be too much for the gallant Remora .
The flat , cruel head move slow ; the steam from his thousand wound grow fiercer ; and he gently breathe his last just a the Firedrake , too , fell over and lay exhaust .
With one final roar , like the breath of a thousand furnace , the Firedrake expire .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 58 -RSB- The prince , watch from the hill-top , could scarcely believe that these two awful scourge of Nature , which have so long devastate his country , be actually dead .
But when he have look on for half-an-hour , and only a river ran where the Remora have be , while the body of the Firedrake lay stark and cold , he hurry to the spot .
Drawing the sword of sharpness , he hack off , at two blow , the iron head and the tail of the Firedrake .
They be a weary weight to carry ; but in a few stride of the shoe of swiftness he be at his castle , where he throw down his burden , and nearly faint with excitement and fatigue .
But the castle clock strike half-past seven ; dinner be at eight , and the poor prince crawl on hand and knee to the garret .
Here he put on the wishing-cap ; wish for a pint of champagne , a hot bath , and his best black velvet and diamond suit .
In a moment these be provide ; he bath , dress , drink a glass of wine , pack up the head and tail of the Firedrake ; sit down on the fly carpet , and knock at the door of the English Ambassador a the clock be strike eight ' in Gluckstein .
Punctuality be the politeness of prince ; and a prince be polite when he be in love !
The prince be receive at the door by a stout porter and lead into the hall , where several butler meet him , and he lay the mortal remain of the Firedrake under the cover of the fly carpet .
Then he be lead upstairs , and he make his bow to the pretty lady , who , of course , make him a magnificent courtesy .
She seem pretty and kind than ever .
The prince be so happy , that he never notice how something go wrong about the dinner .
The ambassador look about , and seem to miss someone , and speak in a low voice to one of the servant , who answer also in a low voice , and what he say seem to displease the ambassador .
But the prince be so busy in talk to his lady , and in eat his dinner too , that he never observe anything unusual .
He have never be at such a pleasant dinner !
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Twelve -RSB- CHAPTER XII .
-- A Terrible Misfortune WHEN the lady leave , and the prince and the other gentleman be alone , the ambassador appear more gloomy than ever .
At last he take the prince into a corner , on pretence of show him a rare statue .
`` Does your royal highness not know , '' he ask , `` that you be in considerable danger ? ''
`` Still ? ''
say the prince , thinking of the Firedrake .
The ambassador do not know what he mean , for he have never hear of the fight , but he answer gravely : `` Never more than now . ''
Then he show the prince two proclamation , which have be post all about the town .
Here be the first : TO ALL LOYAL SUBJECTS .
Whereas , Our eldest son , Prince Prigio , hath of late be guilty of several high crime and misdemeanour .
First : By abandon the post of danger against the Firedrake , whereby our beloved son , Prince Alphonso and Prince Enrico , have perish , and be overdo by that monster .
Secondly : By attend an unseemly revel in the town of Gluckstein , where he brawl in the street .
Thirdly : By try to seduce away the heart of our loyal subject in that city , and to blow up a party against our crown and our peace .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 61 -RSB- This be to give warning , That whoever consort with , comfort , aid , or abet the say Prince Prigio , be thereby a partner in his treason ; and That a reward of Five Thousand Purses will be give to whomsoever brings the say prince , alive , to our Castle of Falkenstein .
Grognio R. And here be the second proclamation : Reward .
The firedrake .
Whereas , Our dominion have lately be devastate by a Firedrake -LRB- the Salamander Furiosus of Buffon -RRB- ; This be to advise all , That whosoever bring the horn and tail of the say Firedrake to our Castle of Falkenstein , shall receive Five Thousand Purses , the position of Crown Prince , with the usual perquisite , and the hand of the king 's niece , the Lady Molinda .
Grognio R. `` H 'm , '' say the prince ; `` I do not think his majesty write so well ; '' and he would have like to say , `` Do n't you think we might join the lady ? ''
`` But , sir , '' say the ambassador , `` the street be line with soldier ; and I know not how you have escape them .
Here , under my roof , you be safe for the moment ; but a prolonged stay -- excuse my inhospitality -- could not but strain the harmonious relation which prevail between the Government of Pantouflia and that which I have the honour to represent . ''
`` We do n't want to fight ; and no more , I think , do you , '' say the prince , smile .
`` Then how do your royal highness mean to treat the proclamation ? ''
`` Why , by win these ten thousand purse .
I can tell you # 1,000,000 be worth have , '' say the prince .
`` I 'll deliver up the say prince , alive , at Falkenstein this very night ; also the horn and tail of the say Firedrake .
But I do n't want to marry my Cousin Molly . ''
`` May I remind your royal highness that Falkenstein be three hundred mile away ?
Moreover , my head butler , Benson , disappear from the house before dinner , and I fear he go to warn Captain Kopzoffski that you be here !
'' `` That be nothing , '' say the prince ; `` but , my dear Lord Kelso , may I not have the pleasure of present Lady Rosalind with a little gift , a Philippine which I lose to her last night , merely the head and tail of a Firedrake which I stalk this morning ? ''
The ambassador be so astonished that he run straight upstairs , forget his manner , and cry : `` Linda !
Linda !
come down at once ; here 's a surprise for you ! ''
Lady Rosalind come sweep down , with a smile on her kind face .
She guess what it be , though the prince have say nothing about it at dinner .
`` Lead the way , your royal highness ! ''
cry the ambassador ; and the prince offering Lady Rosalind his arm , go out into the hall , where he saw neither his carpet nor the horn and tail of the Firedrake !
He turn quite pale , and say : `` Will you kindly ask the servant where the little Persian prayer-rug and the parcel which I bring with me have be place ? ''
Lord Kelso ring the bell , and in come all the servant , with William , the under-butler , at their head .
`` William , '' say his lordship , `` where have you put his royal highness 's parcel and his carpet ? ''
`` Please , your lordship , '' say William , `` we think Benson have take them away with him . ''
`` And where be Benson ? ''
`` We do n't know , your lordship .
We think he have be come for ! ''
`` Come for -- by whom ? ''
William stammer , and seem at a loss for a reply .
`` Quick !
answer !
what do you know about it ? ''
William say at last , rather a if he be make a speech : `` Your royaliness , and my lord and lady , it be like this .
His royaliness come in with a rug over his arm , and summat under it .
And he lay it down on that there seat , and Thomas show him into the droring-room .
Then Benson say : ` Dinner 'll be ready in five minute ; how tired I do feel !
` Then he take the libbuty of sit hisself down on his royaliness 's rug , and he say , ask your pardon , ' I 've have about enough of service here .
I 'm about tire , and I think of better myself .
I wish I be at the king 's court , and butler . '
-LSB- Illustration : Page 65 -RSB- But before the word be out of his mouth , off he fly like a shot through the open door , and his royaliness 's parcel with him .
I run to the door , and there he be , fly right hover the town , in a northerly direction .
And that 's all I know ; for I would not tell a lie , not if it be hever so .
And me , and Thomas -- a do n't see it , -- and cook , we think a how Benson be come for .
And cook say a she do n't wonder at it , neither ; for a grumblinger , more ill-conditioneder -- '' `` Thank you , William , '' say Lord Kelso ; `` that will do ; you can go , for the present . ''
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Thirteen -RSB- CHAPTER XIII .
-- Surprises THE prince say nothing , the ambassador say nothing , Lady Rosalind say never a word till they be in the drawing-room .
It be a lovely warm evening , and the French window be wide open on the balcony , which look over the town and away north to the hill .
Below them flow the clear , green water of the Gluckthal And still nobody say a word .
At last the prince speak : `` This be a very strange story , Lord Kelso ! ''
`` Very , sir ! ''
say the ambassador .
`` But true , '' add the prince ; `` at least , there be no reason in the nature of thing why it should n't be true . ''
`` I can hardly believe , sir , that the conduct of Benson , whom I always find a most respectable man , deserve -- '' `` That he should be ` come for , ' '' say the prince .
`` Oh , no ; it be a mere accident , and might have happen to any of u who chance to sit down on my carpet . ''
And then the prince tell them , shortly , all about it : how the carpet be one of a number of fairy property , which have be give him at his christening ; and how so long a time have go by before he discover them ; and how , probably , the carpet have carry the butler where he have say he want to go -- namely , to the king 's Court at Falkenstein .
`` It would not matter so much , '' add the prince , `` only I have rely on make my peace with his majesty , my father , by aid of those horn and that tail .
He be set on get them ; and if the Lady Rosalind have not express a wish for them , they would to-day have be in his possession . ''
`` Oh , sir , you honour u too highly , '' murmur Lady Rosalind ; and the prince blush and say : `` Not at all !
Impossible ! ''
Then , of course , the ambassador become quite certain that his daughter be admire by the crown prince , who be on bad term with the king of the country ; and a more uncomfortable position for an ambassador -- however , they be use to them .
`` What on earth be I to do with the young man ? ''
he think .
`` He ca n't stay here for ever ; and without his carpet he ca n't get away , for the soldier have order to seize him as soon a he appear in the street .
And in the meantime Benson will be pretend that he kill the Firedrake -- for he must have get to Falkenstein by now , -- and they will be for marry him to the king 's niece , and make my butler crown prince to the kingdom of Pantouflia !
It be dreadful ! ''
Now all this time the prince be on the balcony , tell Lady Rosalind all about how he get the Firedrake do for , in the most modest way ; for , a he say : `` I do n't kill him : and it be really the Remora , poor fellow , who should marry Molly ; but he 's dead . ''
At this very moment there be a whizz in the air ; something shot past them , and , through the open window , the king , the queen , Benson , and the mortal remain of the Firedrake be shoot into the ambassador 's drawing room !
-LSB- Illustration : Page 69 -RSB- -LSB- Illustration : Chapter Fourteen -RSB- CHAPTER XIV .
-- The King Explains .
THE first who recover his voice and presence of mind be Benson .
`` Did your lordship ring for coffee ? ''
he ask , quietly ; and when he be tell `` Yes , '' he bow and withdraw , with majestic composure .
When he have go , the prince throw himself at the king 's foot , cry : `` Pardon , pardon , my liege ! ''
`` Do n't speak to me , sir ! ''
answer the king , very angrily ; and the poor prince throw himself at the foot of the queen .
But she take no notice of him whatever , no more than if he have be a fairy ; and the prince hear her murmur , a she pinch her royal arm : `` I shall waken presently ; this be nothing out of the way for a dream .
Dr. Rumpfino ascribe it to imperfect nutrition . ''
All this time , the Lady Rosalind , as pale a a marble statue , be lean against the side of the open window .
The prince think he could do nothing wiser than go and comfort her , so he induce her to sit down on a chair in the balcony , -- for he felt that he be not want in the drawing-room ; -- and soon they be talk happily about the star , which have begin to appear in the summer night .
Meanwhile , the ambassador have induce the king to take a seat ; but there be no use in talk to the queen .
`` It would be a miracle , '' she say to herself , `` and miracle do not happen ; therefore this have not happen .
Presently , I shall wake up in my own bed at Falkenstein . ''
Now , Benson , William , and Thomas bring in the coffee , but the queen take no notice .
When they go away , the rest of the company slip off quietly , and the king be leave alone with the ambassador ; for the queen could hardly be say to count .
`` You want to know all about it , I suppose ? ''
say his majesty in a sulky voice .
`` Well , you have a right to it , and I shall tell you .
We be just sit down to dinner at Falkenstein , rather late , -- hour get later every year , I think -- when I hear a row in the premise , and the captain of the guard , Colonel McDougal , come and tell u that a man have arrive with the horn and tail of the Firedrake , and be claim the reward .
Her majesty and I rise and go into the out court , where we find , sit on that carpet with a glass of beer in his hand , a respectable-looking upper servant , whom I recognise a your butler .
He inform u that he have just kill the beast , and show u the horn and tail , sure enough ; there they be !
The tail be like the iron handle of a pump , but the horn be genuine .
A pair be throw up by a volcano , in my great-grandfather 's time Giglio I . * Excellent coffee this , of yours ! ''
* The History of this Prince may be read in a treatise call The Rose and the Ring , by M. A. Titmarsh .
London , 1855 .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 72 -RSB- The ambassador bow .
`` Well , we ask him where he kill the Firedrake , and he say in a garden near Gluckstein .
Then he begin to speak about the reward , and the ` perkisits , ' a he call them , which it seem he have read about in my proclamation .
Rather a neat thing ; draw it up myself , '' add his majesty .
`` Very much to the point , '' say the ambassador , wonder what the king be come to .
`` Glad you like it , '' say the king , much pleased .
`` Well , where be I ?
Oh , yes ; your man say he have kill the creature in a garden , quite near Gluckstein .
I do n't much like the whole affair : he be an alien , you see ; and then there be my niece , Molinda -- poor girl , she be certain to give trouble .
Her heart be bury , if I may say so , with poor Alphonso .
But the queen be a very remarkable woman -- very remarkable -- '' `` Very ! ''
say the ambassador , with perfect truth . ''
` Caitiff ! '
she cry to your butler , '' his majesty go on ; '' ` perjure knave , thou li in thy throat !
Gluckstein be a hundred league from here , and how say est thou that thou slewest the molester , and earnest hither in a few hour ' space ? '
This have not occur to me , -- I be a plain king , but I at once saw the force of her majesty 's argument .
Yes , ' say I ; ` how do you manage it ? '
But he -- your man , I mean -- be not a bit put out .
` Why , your majesty , ' say he , ' I just sit down on that there bit of carpet , wish I be here , and here I ham .
And I 'd be glad , have have the trouble , -- and my time not be my own , -- to see the colour of them perkisits , accord to the proclamation . '
On this her majesty grow more indignant , if possible .
` Nonsense ! '
she cry ; ' a story out of the ` Arabian Nights ' be not suit for a modern public , and fail to win sthetic credence . '
These be her very word . ''
`` Her majesty 's expression be ever choice and appropriate , '' say the ambassador . ''
` Sit down there , on the carpet , knave , ' she go on ; ` ourself and consort ' -- mean me -- ` will take our place by thy side , and I shall wish u in Gluckstein , at thy master 's !
When the experiment have fail , thy head shall from thy shoulder be shorn ! '
So your man merely say , ` Very well , mum , -- your majesty , I mean , ' and sit down .
The queen take her place at the edge of the carpet ; I sit between her and the butler , and she say , ' I wish I be in Gluckstein ! '
Then we rise , fly through the air at an astonishing pace , and here we be !
So I suppose the rest of the butler 's tale be true , which I regret ; but a king 's word be sacred , and he shall take the place of that sneak , Prigio .
But a we leave home before dinner , and yours be over , may I request your lordship to believe that I should be delight to take something cold ? ''
The ambassador at once order a sumptuous collation , to which the king do full justice ; and his majesty be show to the royal chamber , a he complain of fatigue .
The queen accompany him , remark that she be sound asleep , but would waken presently .
Neither of them say `` Good-night '' to the prince .
Indeed , they do not see him again , for he be on the balcony with Lady Rosalind .
They find a great deal to say to each other , and at last the prince ask her to be his wife ; and she say that if the king and her father give their permission -- why , then she would !
After this she go to bed ; and the prince , who have not sleep at all the night before , felt very sleepy also .
But he know that first he have something that must be do .
So he go into the drawing-room , take his carpet , and wish to be -- now where do you suppose ?
Beside the dead body of the Firedrake !
There he be in a moment ; and dreadful the body look , lie stark and cold in the white moonshine .
Then the prince cut off it four hoof , put them in his wallet , and with these he fly back in a second , and meet the ambassador just a he come from usher the king to bed .
Then the prince be show his own room , where he lock up the hoof , the carpet , the cap of darkness , and his other thing in an iron box ; and so he go to bed and dreamed of his Lady Rosalind .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Fifteen -RSB- CHAPTER XV .
-- The King 's Cheque WHEN they all awaken next morning , their first idea be confuse .
It be often confuse to wake in a strange bed , much more so when you have fly through the air , like the king , the queen , and Benson the butler .
For her part , the queen be the most perplexed of all ; for she do undeniably wake , and yet she be not at home , where she have expect to be .
However , she be a determined woman , and stand to it that nothing unusual be occur .
The butler make up his mind to claim the crown princeship and the hand of the Lady Molinda ; because , a he justly remark to William , here be such a chance to good himself a might not soon come in his way again .
As for the king , he be only anxious to get back to Falkenstein , and have the whole business settle in a constitutional manner .
The ambassador be not sorry to get rid of the royal party ; and it be propose that they should all sit down on the fly carpet , and wish themselves at home again .
But the queen would not hear of it : she say it be childish and impossible ; so the carriage be get ready for her , and she start without say a word of good-bye to anyone .
The king , Benson , and the prince be not so particular , and they simply fly back to Falkenstein in the usual way , arrive there at 11.35 -- a week before her majesty .
The king at once hold a Court ; the horn and tail of the monster be exhibit amidst general interest , and Benson and the prince be invite to state their claim .
Benson 's evidence be take first .
He decline to say exactly where or how he kill the Firedrake .
There might be more of them leave , he remark , -- young one , that would take a lot of killing , -- and he refuse to part with his secret .
Only he claim the reward , which be offer , if you remember , not to the man who kill the beast , but to him wha bring it horn and tail .
This be allow by the lawyer present to be very sound law ; and Benson be cheer by the courtier , who decidedly prefer him to Prigio , and who , besides , think he be go to be crown prince .
As for Lady Molinda , she be tear by the most painful feeling ; for , much a she hat Prigio , she could not bear the idea of marry Benson .
Yet one or the other choice seem certain .
Unhappy lady !
Perhaps no girl be ever more strangely beset by misfortune !
Prince Prigio be now call on to speak .
He admit that the reward be offer for bring the horn and tail , not for kill the monster .
But be the king 's intention to go for nothing ?
When a subject only mean well , of course he have to suffer ; but when a king say one thing , be he not to be suppose to have mean another ?
Any fellow with a waggon could bring the horn and tail ; the difficult thing be to kill the monster .
If Benson 's claim be allow , the royal prerogative of say one thing and mean something else be in danger .
On hear this argument , the king so far forgot himself a to cry , `` Bravo , well say ! ''
and to clap his hand , whereon all the courtier shout and throw up their hat .
The prince then say that whoever have kill the monster could , of course , tell where to find him , and could bring his hoof .
He be ready to do this himself .
Was Mr. Benson equally ready ?
On this be interpret to him -- for he do not speak Pantouflian -- Benson grow pale with horror , but fell back on the proclamation .
He have bring the horn and tail , and so he must have the perquisite , and the Lady Molinda !
The king 's mind be so much confuse by this time , that he determine to leave it to the Lady Molinda herself .
`` Which of them will you have , my dear ? ''
he ask , in a kind voice .
But poor Molinda merely cry .
Then his majesty be almost drive to say that he would give the reward to whoever produce the hoof by that day week .
But no sooner have he say this than the prince bring them out of his wallet , and display them in open Court .
This end the case ; and Benson , after be entertain with sherry and sandwich in the steward 's room , be send back to his master , And I regret to say that his temper be not at all improve by his failure to good himself .
On the contrary , he be unusually cross and disagreeable for several day ; but we must , perhaps , make some allowance for his disappointment .
But if Benson be irritate , and suffer from the remark of his fellow-servants , I do not think we can envy Prince Prigio .
Here he be , restore to his position indeed , but by no mean to the royal favour .
For the king dislike him as much a ever , and be as angry a ever about the death of Enrico and Alphonso .
Nay , he be even more angry ; and , perhaps , not without reason .
He call up Prigio before the whole Court , and thereon the courtier cheer like anything , but the king cry : `` Silence !
McDougal , drag the first man that shout to the serpent-house in the zoological garden , and lock him up with the rattlesnake ! ''
After that the courtier be very quiet .
`` Prince , '' say the king , a Prigio bow before the throne , `` you be restore to your position , because I can not break my promise .
But your base and malevolent nature be even more conspicuously manifest in your selfish success than in your previous dastardly contempt of duty .
Why , confound you ! ''
cry the king , drop the high style in which he have be speak , and become the father , not the monarch , -- `` why , if you could kill the Firedrake , do you let your poor little brother go and be b -- b -- b -- broil ?
Eh !
what do you say , you sneak ?
` You do n't believe there be any Firedrakes ? '
That just come of your eternal conceit and arrogance !
If you be clever enough to kill the creature -- and I admit that -- you be clever enough to know that what everybody say must be true .
` You have not generally find it so ? '
Well , you have this time , and let it be a lesson to you ; not that there be much comfort in that , for it be not likely you will ever have such another chance '' -- exactly the idea that have occur to Benson .
Here the king wept , among the tear of the lord chief justice , the poet laureate -LRB- who have be awfully frighten when he hear of the rattlesnake -RRB- , the maid of honour , the chaplain royal , and everyone but Colonel McDougal , a Scottish soldier of fortune , who maintain a military reserve .
When his majesty have recover , he say to Prigio -LRB- who have not be cry , he be too much absorb -RRB- : `` A king 's word be his bond .
Bring me a pen , somebody , and my cheque-book . ''
The royal cheque-book , bound in red morocco , be bring in by eight page , with ink and a pen .
His majesty then fill up and sign the following satisfactory document -- -LRB- Ah !
my child , how I wish Mr. Arrowsmith would do as much for me ! -RRB-
: -LSB- Illustration : The King 's Cheque -RSB- `` There ! ''
say his majesty , cross his cheque and throw sand over it , for blotting-paper have not yet be invent ; `` there , take that , and be off with you ! ''
Prince Prigio be respectfully but rapidly obey his royal command , for he think he have good cash the royal cheque as soon a possible , when his majesty yell : `` Hi !
here !
come back !
I forget something ; you 've get to marry Molinda ! ''
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Sixteen -RSB- CHAPTER XVI .
-- A Melancholy Chapter THE prince have go some way , when the king call after him .
How he wish he have the seven-league boot on , or that he have the cap of darkness in his pocket !
If he have be so lucky , he would now have get back to Gluckstein , and cross the border with Lady Rosalind .
A million of money may not seem much , but a pair of young people who really love each other could live happily on less than the cheque he have in his pocket .
However , the king shout very loud , a he always do when he mean to be obey , and the prince saunter slowly back again .
`` Prigio ! ''
say his majesty , `` where be you off to ?
Do n't you remember that this be your wedding-day ?
My proclamation offer , not only the money -LRB- which you have -RRB- , but the hand of the Lady Molinda , which the Court chaplain will presently make your own .
I congratulate you , sir ; Molinda be a dear girl . ''
`` I have the high affection and esteem for my cousin , sir , '' say the prince , `` but : -- '' `` I 'll never marry him ! ''
cry poor Molinda , kneel at the throne , where her streaming eye and hair make a pretty and touching picture .
`` Never !
I despise him ! ''
-LSB- Illustration : Page 84 -RSB- `` I be about to say , sir , '' the prince go on , `` that I can not possibly have the pleasure of wed my cousin . ''
`` The family gibbet , I presume , be in good work order ? ''
ask the king of the family executioner , a tall gaunt man in black and scarlet , who be only employ in the case of member of the blood royal .
`` Never well , sire , '' say the man , bow with more courtliness than his profession indicate .
`` Very well , '' say the king ; `` Prince Prigio , you have your choice .
There be the gallows , here be Lady Molinda .
My duty be painful , but clear .
A king 's word can not be break .
Molly , or the gibbet ! ''
The prince bow respectfully to Lady Molinda : `` Madam , my cousin , '' say he , `` your clemency will excuse my answer , and you will not misinterpret the apparent discourtesy of my conduct .
I be compel , most unwillingly , to slight your charm , and to select the Extreme Rigour of the Law .
Executioner , lead on !
Do your duty ; for me , Prigio est prt ; '' -- for this be his motto , and mean that he be ready .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 85 -RSB- Poor Lady Molinda could not but be hurt by the prince 's preference for death over marriage to her , little a she like him .
`` Is life , then , so worthless ?
and be Molinda so terrible a person that you prefer those arm , '' and she point to the gibbet , `` to these ?
'' -- here she hold out her own , which be very white , round and pretty ; for Molinda be a good-hearted girl , she could not bear to see Prigio put to death ; and then , perhaps , she reflect that there be bad position than the queenship of Pantouflia .
For Alphonso be go -- cry would not bring him back .
`` Ah , Madam ! ''
say the prince , `` you be forgive -- '' `` For you be brave ! ''
say Molinda , feeling : quite a respect for him .
`` But neither your heart nor mine be ours to give .
Since mine be another 's , I understand too well the feeling of yours !
Do not let u buy life at the price of happiness and honour . ''
Then , turn to the king the prince say : `` Sir , be there no way but by death or marriage ?
You say you can not keep half only of your promise ; and that , if I accept the reward , I must also unite myself with my unwilling cousin .
Can not the whole proclamation be annul , and will you consider the bargain void if I tear up this flimsy scroll ? ''
And here the prince flutter the cheque for # 1,000,000 in the air .
For a moment the king be tempt ; but then he say to himself : `` Never mind , it 's only an extra penny on the income-tax . ''
Then , `` Keep your dross , '' he shout , mean the million ; `` but let me keep my promise .
To chapel at once , or -- '' and he point to the executioner .
`` The word of a king of Pantouflia be sacred . ''
`` And so be that of a crown prince , '' answer Prigio ; `` and mine be pledge to a lady . ''
`` She shall be a mourning bride , '' cry the king savagely , `` unless '' -- here he pause for a moment -- `` unless you bring me back Alphohso and Enrico , safe and well ! ''
The prince thought for the space of a flash of lightning .
`` I accept the alternative , '' he say , `` if your majesty will grant me my condition . ''
`` Name them ! ''
say the king .
`` Let me be transport to Gluckstein , leave there unguarded , and if , in three day , I do not return with my brother safe and well , your majesty shall be spar a cruel duty .
Prigio of Pantouflia will perish by his own hand . ''
The king , whose mind do not work very quickly , take some minute to think over it .
Then he saw that by grant the prince 's condition , he would either recover his dear son , or , at least , get rid of Prigio , without the unpleasantness of have him execute .
For , though some king have put their eldest son to death , and most have wish to do so , they have never be well love by the people for their Roman virtue .
`` Honour bright ? ''
say the king at last .
`` Honour bright ! ''
answer the prince , and for the first time in many month , the royal father and son shook hand .
`` For you , madam , '' say Prigio in a stately way to Lady Molinda , `` in less than a week I trust we shall be take our vow at the same altar , and that the close of the ceremony which find u cousin will leave u brother and sister . ''
Poor Molinda merely star ; for she could not imagine what he mean .
In a moment he be go ; and have take , by the king 's permission , the fly carpet , he be back at the ambassador 's house in Gluckstein .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Seventeen -RSB- CHAPTER XVII .
-- The Black Cat and the brother WHO be glad to see the prince , if it be not Lady Rosalind ?
The white rose of her cheek turn to red rose in a moment , and then back to white again , they be so alarm at the change .
So the two go into the garden together , and talk about a number of thing ; but at last the prince tell her that , before three day be over , all would be well , or all would be over with him .
For either he would have bring his brother back , sound and well , to Falkenstein , or he would not survive his dishonour .
`` It be no more than right , '' he say ; `` for have I go first , neither of them would have be send to meet the monster after I have fall .
And I should have fall , dear Rosalind , if I have face the Firedrake before I know you .
'' Then when she ask him why , and what good she have do him , he tell her all the story ; and how , before he fell in love with her , he do n't believe in fairy , or Firedrakes , or cap of darkness , or anything nice and impossible , but only in horrid useless fact , and chemistry , and geology , and arithmetic , and mathematics , and even political economy .
And the Firedrake would have make a mouthful of him , then .
So she be delight when she hear this , almost a much delight a she be afraid that he might fail in the most difficult adventure .
For it be one thing to egg on a Remora to kill a Firedrake , and quite another to find the prince if they be alive , and restore them if they be dead !
But the prince say he have his plan , and he stay that night at the ambassador 's .
Next morning he rise very early , before anyone else be up , that he might not have to say `` Good-bye '' to Lady Rosalind .
Then he fly in a moment to the old lonely castle , where nobody go for fear of ghost , ever since the Court retire to Falkenstein .
How still it be , how desert ; not a sign of life , and yet the prince be look everywhere for some living thing .
He hunt the castle through in vain , and then go out to the stable-yard ; but all the dog , of course , have be take away , and the farmer have offer home to the poultry .
At last , stretch at full length in a sunny place , the prince find a very old , half-blind , miserable cat .
The poor creature be lean , and it fur have fall off in patch ; it could no longer catch bird , nor even mouse , and there be nobody to give it milk .
But cat do not look far into the future ; and this old black cat -- Frank be his name -- have get a breakfast somehow , and be happy in the sun .
The prince stand and look at him pityingly , and he think that even a sick old cat be , in some way , happy than most men .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 91 -RSB- `` Well , '' say the prince at last , `` he could not live long anyway , and it must be do .
He will feel nothing . ''
Then he draw the sword of sharpness , and with one turn of his wrist cut the cat 's head clean off .
It do not at once change into a beautiful young lady , a perhaps you expect ; no , that be improbable , and , a the prince be in love already , would have be vastly inconvenient .
The dead cat lay there , like any common cat .
Then the prince build up a heap of straw , with wood on it ; and there he lay poor pus , and set fire to the pile .
Very soon there be nothing of old black Frank leave but ash !
Then the prince run upstairs to the fairy cupboard , his heart beat loudly with excitement , The sun be shin through the arrow-shot window ; all the yellow mote be dance in it ray .
The light fell on the strange heap of fairy thing -- talisman and spell .
The prince hunt about here and there , and at last he discover six ancient water-vessels of black leather , each with a silver plate on it , and on the plate letter engrave .
This be what be write on the plate : AQVA .
DE .
FONTE .
LEONVM .
* * Water from the Fountain of Lions .
`` Thank heaven ! ''
say the prince .
`` I think they be sure to have bring it ! ''
Then he take one of the old black-leather bottle , and run downstairs again to the place where he have burn the body of the poor old sick cat .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 93 -RSB- He open the bottle , and pour a few drop of the water on the ash and the die ember .
Up there spring a tall , white flame of fire , wave like a tongue of light ; and forth from the heap jump the most beautiful , strong , funny , black cat that ever be see !
It be Frank a he have be in the vigour of his youth ; and he know the prince at once , and rub himself against him and purr .
The prince lift up Frank and kiss his nose for joy ; and a bright tear roll down on Frank 's face , and make him rub his nose with his paw in the most comical manner .
Then the prince set him down , and he run round and round after his tail ; and , lastly , cock his tail up , and march proudly after the prince into the castle .
`` Oh , Frank ! ''
say Prince Prigio , `` no cat since the time of Puss in Boots be ever so well take care of a you shall be .
For if the fairy water from the Fountain of Lions can bring you back to life -- why , there be a chance for Alphonso and Enrico ! ''
Then Prigio bustle about , get ready some cold luncheon from the store-room , take all his fairy thing that he be likely to need , sit down with them on the fly carpet , and wish himself at the mountain of the Firedrake .
`` I have the king now , '' he say ; `` for if I ca n't find the ash of my brother , by Jove !
I 'll !
-- '' Do you know what he mean to do , if he could not find his brother ?
Let every child-guess .
Off he fly ; and there he be in a second , just beside poor Alphonso 's garden-engine .
Then Prigio , see a little heap of grey ash beside the engine , water them with the fairy water ; and up jump Alphonso , as jolly a ever , his sword in his hand .
`` Hullo , Prigio ! ''
cry he ; `` be you come after the monster too ?
I 've be asleep , and I have a kind of dream that he beat me .
But the pair of u will tackle him .
How be Molinda ? ''
`` Prettier than ever , '' say Prigio ; `` but anxious about you .
However , the Firedrake 's dead and do for ; so never mind him .
But I leave Enrico somewhere about .
Just you sit down and wait a minute , till I fetch him . ''
The prince say this , because he do not wish Alphonso to know that he and Enrico have not have quite the best of it in the affair with the monster .
`` All right , old fellow , '' say Alphonso ; `` but have you any luncheon with you ?
Never be so hungry in my life ! ''
Prince Prigio have think of this , and he bring out some cold sausage -LRB- to which Alphonso be partial -RRB- and some bread , with which the young prince express himself satisfy .
Then Prigio go up the hill some way , first warn Alphonso not to sit on his carpet for fear of accident like that which happen to Benson .
In a hollow of the hill , sure enough there be the sword of Enrico , the diamond of the hilt gleaming in the sun .
And there be a little heap of grey ash .
The prince pour a few drop of the water from the Fountain of Lions on them , and up , of course , jump Enrico , just a Alphonso have do .
`` Sleepy old chap you be , Enrico , '' say the prince ; `` but come on , Alphonso will have finish the grub unless we look smart . ''
So back they come , in time to get their share of what be go ; and they drink the Remora 's very good health , when Prigio tell them about the fight .
But neither of them ever know that they have be dead and do for ; because Prigio invent a story that the mountain be enchant , and that , as long a the Firedrake live , everyone who come there fell asleep .
He do tell them about the fly carpet , however , which of course do not much surprise them , because they have read all about it in the Arabian Nights and other historical work .
`` And now I 'll show you fun ! ''
say Prigio ; and he ask them both to take their seat on the carpet , and wish to be in the valley of the Remora .
There they be in a moment , among the old knight whom , if you remember , the Remora have freeze into stone .
There be quite a troop of them , in all sort of armour -- Greek and Roman , and Knight Templars like Front ' de Bouf and Brian du Bois Gilbert -- all the brave warrior that have try to fight the Remora since the world begin .
Then Prigio give each of his brother some of the water in their cap , and tell them to go round pour a drop or two on each frozen knight .
And a they do it , lo and behold !
each knight come alive , with his horse , and lift his sword and shoute : `` Long live Prince Prigio ! ''
in Greek , Latin , Egyptian , French , German , and Spanish , -- all of which the prince perfectly understood , and speak like a native .
So he marshal them in order , and send them off to ride to Falkenstein and cry : `` Prince Prigio be come ! ''
-LSB- Illustration : Page 97 -RSB- Off they go , the horse ' hoof clattering , banner fly , sunshine glittering on the spear-point .
Off they ride to Falkenstein ; and when the king saw them come galloping in , I can tell you he have no more notion of hang Prigio .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Eighteen -RSB- CHAPTER XVIII .
-- The Very Last THE prince return to Gluckstein on the carpet , and go to the best inn , where they din together and sleep .
Next morning they , and the ambassador , who have be tell all the story , and Lady Rosalind , float comfortably on the carpet , back to Falkenstein , where the king wept like anything on the shoulder of Alphonso and Enrico .
They could not make out why he cry so , nor why Lady Molinda and Lady Kathleena cry ; but soon they be all laughing and happy again .
But then -- would you believe he could be so mean ?
-- he refuse to keep his royal promise , and restore Prigio to his crown-princeship !
Kings be like that .
But Prigio , very quietly ask for the head of the Firedrake , say he 'd pour the magic water on that , and bring the Firedrake back to life again , unless his majesty behave rightly .
This threat properly frighten King Grognio , and he apologise .
Then the king shook hand with Prigio in public , and thank him , and say he be proud of him .
As to Lady Rosalind , the old gentleman quite fell in love with her , and he send at once to the Chaplain Royal to get into his surplice , and marry all the young people off at once , without wait for wedding-cakes , and milliner , and all the rest of it .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 100 -RSB- Now , just a they be form a procession to march into church , who should appear but the queen !
Her majesty have be travel by post all the time , and , luckily , have hear of none of the doings since Prigio , Benson , and the king leave Gluckstein .
I say luckily because if she have heard of them , she would not have believe a word of them .
But when she saw Alphonso and Enrico , she be much pleased , and say : `` Naughty boys !
Where have you be hide ?
The king have some absurd story about your have be kill by a fabulous monster .
Bah !
do n't tell me .
I always say you would come back after a little trip -- do n't I , Prigio ? ''
`` Certainly , madam , '' say Prigio ; `` and I say so , too .
Did n't I say so ? ''
And all the courtier cry : `` Yes , you do ; '' but some add , to themselves , `` He always say , ` Did n't I say so ? ' ''
Then the queen be introduce to Lady Rosalind , and she say it be `` rather a short engagement , but she suppose young people understand their own affair best . ''
And they do !
So the three pair be marry , with the utmost rejoicing ; and her majesty never , her whole life long , could be get to believe that anything unusual have occur .
The honeymoon of Prince Prigio and the Crown Princess Rosalind be pass at the castle , where the prince have be desert by the Court .
But now it be delightfully fit up ; and Master Frank march about the house with his tail in the air , a if the place belong to him .
Now , on the second day of their honeymoon , the prince and princess be sit in the garden together , and the prince say , `` Are you quite happy , my dear ? ''
and Rosalind say , `` Yes ; quite . ''
But the prince do not like the tone of her voice , and he say : `` No , there 's something ; do tell me what it be . ''
`` Well , '' say Rosalind , put her head on his shoulder , and speak very low , `` I want everybody to love you as much a I do .
No , not quite so very much , -- but I want them to like you .
Now they ca n't , because they be afraid of you ; for you be so awfully clever .
Now , could n't you take the wishing cap , and wish to be no clever than other people ?
Then everybody would like you ! ''
The prince think a minute , then he say : `` Your will be law , my dear ; anything to please you .
Just wait a minute ! ''
Then he run upstairs , for the last time , to the fairy garret , and he put on the wishing cap .
`` No , '' think he to himself , `` I wo n't wish that .
Every man have one secret from his wife , and this shall be mine . ''
Then he say aloud : `` I wish to SEEM no CLEVERER THAN OTHER PEOPLE . ''
Then he run downstairs again , and the princess notice a great difference in him -LRB- though , of course , there be really none at all -RRB- , and so do everyone .
For the prince remain as clever a ever he have be ; but , a nobody observe it , he become the most popular prince , and finally the best-beloved king who have ever sit on the throne of Pantouflia .
But occasionally Rosalind would say , `` I do believe , my dear , that you be really as clever a ever ! ''
And he be !
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___Prince_Ricardo_of_Pantouflia.txt.out
CHAPTER I .
The Troubles of King Prigio .
-LCB- Prince Ricardo and lady tie up : p13.jpg -RCB- `` I 'm sure I do n't know what to do with that boy ! ''
say King Prigio of Pantouflia .
`` If you do n't know , my dear , '' say Queen Rosalind , his illustrious consort , `` I ca n't see what be to be do .
You be so clever . ''
The king and queen be sit in the royal library , of which the shelf be full of the most delightful fairy book in all language , all equally familiar to King Prigio .
The queen could not read most of them herself , but the king use to read them aloud to her .
A good many year have pass -- seventeen , in fact -- since Queen Rosalind be marry , but you would not think it to look at her .
Her grey eye be a kind and soft and beautiful , her dark hair a dark , and her pretty colour a like a white rise blushing , a on the day when she be a bride .
And she be a fond of the king a when he be only Prince Prigio , and he be a fond of her a on the night when he first meet her at the ball .
`` No , I do n't know what to do with Dick , '' say the king .
He mean his son , Prince Ricardo , but he call him Dick in private .
`` I believe it 's the fault of his education , '' his Majesty go on .
`` We have not bring him up rightly .
These fairy book be at the bottom of his provoke behaviour , '' and he glance round the shelf .
`` Now , when I be a boy , my dear mother try to prevent me from read fairy book , because she do not believe in fairy . ''
`` But she be wrong , you know , '' say the queen .
`` Why , if it have not be for all these fairy present , the Cap of Darkness and all the rest of them , you never could have kill the Fire-beast and the Ice-beast , and -- you never could have marry me , '' the queen add , in a happy whisper , blush beautifully , for that be a foolish habit of hers .
`` It be quite true , '' say the king , `` and therefore I think it best to bring Dick up on fairy book , that he might know what be right , and have no nonsense about him .
But perhaps the thing have be overdone ; at all event , it be not a success .
I wonder if father and son will ever understand each other , and get on well together ?
There be my poor father , King Grognio , he want me to take to adventure , like other prince , fight Firedrakes , and so forth ; and I do not care for it , till you set me on , '' and he look very kindly at her Majesty .
`` And now , here 's Dick , '' the monarch continue , `` I ca n't hold him back .
He be always after a giant , or a dragon , or a magician , a the case may be ; he will certainly be plough for his examination at College .
Never open a book .
What do he care , off after every adventure he can hear about ?
An idle , restless youth !
Ah , my poor country , when I be go , what may not be your misfortune under Ricardo ! ''
Here his Majesty sigh , and seem plunge in thought .
`` But you be not go yet , my dear , '' say the queen .
`` Why you be not forty !
And young people will be young people .
You be quite proud when poor Dick come home with his first brace of gigantic fierce bird , kill off his own sword , and with such a pretty princess he have rescue -- dear Jaqueline ?
I 'm sure she be like a daughter to me .
I can not do without her . ''
`` I wish she be a daughter-in-law ; I wish Dick would take a fancy to marry her , '' say the king .
`` A nice girl I never saw . ''
`` And so accomplished , '' add Queen Rosalind .
`` That girl can turn herself into anything -- a mouse , a fly , a lion , a wheelbarrow , a church !
I never know such talent for magic .
Of course she have the best of teacher , the Fairy Paribanou herself ; but very few girl , in our time , devote so many hour to practice a dear Jaqueline .
Even now , when she be out of the schoolroom , she still practise her scale .
I saw her turn little Dollie into a fish and back again in the bath-room last night .
The child be delighted . ''
In these time , you must know , princess learn magic , just a they learn the piano nowadays ; but they have their music lesson too , dance , calisthenics , and the use of the globe .
`` Yes , she 's a dear , good girl , '' say the king ; `` yet she look melancholy .
I believe , myself , that if Ricardo ask her to marry him , she would not say ` No . '
But that 's just one of the thing I object to most in Dick .
Round the world he go , rescue lady from every kind of horror -- from dragon , giant , cannibal , magician ; and then , when a girl naturally expect to be marry to him , a be usual , off he rid !
He have no more heart than a flounder .
Why , at his age I -- '' `` At his age , my dear , you be so hard-hearted that you be quite a proverb .
Why , I have be tell that you use to ask girl dreadful puzzling question , like ` Who be Caesar Borgia ? '
` What do you know of Edwin and Morcar ? '
and so on . ''
`` I have not see you then , '' say the king .
`` And Ricardo have not see her , whoever she may be .
Besides , he ca n't possibly marry all of them .
And I think a girl should consider herself lucky if she be save from a dragon or a giant , without expect to be married next day . ''
`` Perhaps ; but it be usual , '' say the king , `` and their family expect it , and keep send ambassador to know what Dick 's intention be .
I would not mind it all so very much if he kill the monster off his own sword , a he do that first brace , in fair fight .
But ever since he find his way into that closet where the fairy present lie , everything have be make too easy for him .
It be a royal road to glory , or giant-slaying make easy .
In his Cap of Darkness a poor brute of a dragon ca n't see him .
In his Shoes of Swiftness the giant ca n't catch him .
His Sword of Sharpness would cut any oak asunder at a blow ! ''
`` But you be very glad of them when you make the Ice-beast and the Fire - beast fight and kill each other , '' say the queen .
`` Yes , my dear ; but it want some wit , if I may say so , to do that , and Dick just go at it hammer and tongs : anybody could do it .
It 's intellect I miss in Ricardo .
How be I to know whether he could make a good fight for it without all these fairy thing ?
I wonder what the young rogue be about to-day ?
He 'll be late for dinner , a usual , I daresay .
I ca n't stand want of punctuality at meal , '' remark his Majesty , which be a sign that he be grow old after all ; for where be the fun of be expect always to come home in time for dinner when , perhaps , you be fish , and the trout be rise splendidly ?
`` Young people will be young people , '' say the queen .
`` If you be anxious about him , why do n't you look for him in the magic crystal ? ''
Now the magic crystal be a fairy present , a great ball of glass in which , if you look , you saw the person you want to see , and what he be do , however far away he might be , if he be on the earth at all .
-LCB- 21 -RCB- `` I 'll just take a look at it , '' say the king ; `` it only want three-quarters of an hour to dinner-time . ''
His Majesty rise , and walk to the crystal globe , which be in a stand , like other globe .
He star into it , he turn it round and round , and Queen Rosalind saw him grow quite pale a he gaze .
`` I do n't see him anywhere , '' say the king , `` and I have look everywhere .
I do hope nothing have happen to the boy .
He be so careless .
If he drop his Cap of Darkness in a fight with a giant , why who know what might occur ? ''
`` Oh , ` Gio , how you frighten me ! ''
say the queen .
King Prigio be still turn the crystal globe .
`` Stop ! ''
he cry ; `` I see a beautiful princess , fasten by iron chain to a rock beside the sea , in a lonely place .
They must have fix her up a a sacrifice to a sea-monster , like what 's - her-name . ''
This prove how anxious he be , or , be so clever and learn , he would have remember that her name be Andromeda .
`` I bet Dick be not far off , where there be an adventure on hand .
But where on earth can he be ?
... My word ! ''
suddenly exclaim the monarch , in obvious excitement .
`` What be it , dear ? ''
cry the queen , with all the anxiety of a mother .
`` Why , the sea where the girl be , have turn all red a blood ! ''
exclaim the king .
`` Now it be all be churn up by the tail of a tremendous monster .
He be a whopper !
He 's come on shore ; the girl be faint .
He 's out on shore !
He be extremely poorly , blood rush from his open jaw .
He 's die !
And , hooray !
here 's Dick come out of his enormous mouth , all in armour set with sharp spike , and a sword in his hand .
He 's cover with blood , but he 's well and hearty .
He must have be swallow by the brute , and cut him up inside .
Now he 's cut the beast 's head off .
Now he 's go to the princess ; a very neat bow he have make her .
Dick 's manner be positively improve !
Now he 's cut her iron chain off with the Sword of Sharpness .
And now he 's make her another bow , and he 's actually take leave of her .
Poor thing !
How disappointed she be look .
And she 's so pretty , too .
I say , Rosalind , shall I shout to him through the magic horn , and tell him to bring her home here , on the magic carpet ? ''
`` I think not , dear ; the palace be quite full , '' say the queen .
But the real reason be that she want Ricardo to marry her favourite Princess Jaqueline , and she do not wish the new princess to come in the way .
`` As you like , '' say the king , who know what be in her mind very well .
`` Besides , I see her own people come for her .
I 'm sorry for her , but it ca n't be help , and Dick be half-way home by now on the Shoes of Swiftness .
I daresay he will not keep dinner wait after all .
But what a fright the boy have give me ! ''
At this moment a whirring in the air and a joyous shout be hear .
It be Prince Ricardo fly home on his Seven-league Boots .
`` Hi , Ross ! ''
he shout , `` just weigh this beast 's head .
I 've have a splendid day with a sea-monster .
Get the head stuffed , will you ?
We 'll have it set up in the billiard-room . ''
`` Yes , Master Dick -- I mean your Royal Highness , '' say Ross , a Highland keeper , who have not previously be employ by a Reigning Family .
`` It 's a fine head , whatever , '' he add , meditatively .
-LCB- Ross weigh the beast 's head : p28.jpg -RCB- Prince Ricardo now come beneath the library window , and give his parent a brief account of his adventure .
`` I pick the monster up early in the morning , '' he say , `` through the magic telescope , father . ''
`` What country be he in ? ''
say the king .
`` The country people whom I meet call it Ethiopia .
They be nigger . ''
`` And in what part of the globe be Ethiopia , Ricardo ? ''
`` Oh !
I do n't know .
Asia , perhaps , '' answer the prince .
The king groan .
`` That boy will never understand our foreign relation .
Ethiopia in Asia ! ''
he say to himself , but he do not choose to make any remark at the moment .
The prince run upstairs to dress .
On the stair he meet the Princess Jaqueline .
`` Oh , Dick !
be you hurt ? ''
she say , turn very pale .
`` No , not I ; but the monster be .
I have a capital day , Jack ; rescue a princess , too . ''
`` Was she -- be she very pretty , Dick ? ''
`` Oh !
I do n't know .
Pretty enough , I daresay .
Much like other girl .
Why , you look quite white !
What 's the matter ?
Now you look all right again ; '' for , indeed , the Princess Jaqueline be blush .
`` I must dress .
I 'm ever so late , '' he say , hurry upstairs ; and the princess , with a little sigh , go down to the royal drawing-room .
CHAPTER II .
Princess Jaqueline Drinks the Moon .
-LCB- The King and the Prince : p30.jpg -RCB- When dinner be over and the lady have leave the room , the king try to speak seriously to Prince Ricardo .
This be a thing which he dislike do very much .
`` There 's very little use in preaching , '' his Majesty use to say , `` to a man , or rather a boy , of another generation .
My taste be for book ; I only take to adventure because I be oblige to do it .
Dick 's taste be for adventure ; I only wish some accident would make him take to book .
But everyone must get his experience for himself ; and when he have get it , he be lucky if it be not too late .
I wish I could see him in love with some nice girl , who would keep him at home . ''
The king do not expect much from talk seriously to Dick .
However , he begin by ask question about the day 's sport , which Ricardo answer with modesty .
Then his Majesty observe that , from all he have ever read or hear , he believe Ethiopia , where the fight be , to be in Africa , not in Asia .
`` I really wish , Ricardo , that you would attend to your geography a little more .
It be most necessary to a soldier that he should know where his enemy be , and if he have to fight the Dutch , for instance , not to start with his army for Central Asia . ''
`` I could always spot them through the magic glass , father , '' say Dick ; `` it save such a lot of trouble .
I hate geography . ''
`` But the glass might be lose or break , or the Fairies might take it away , and then where be you ? ''
`` Oh , you would know where to go , or Mr. Belsham . ''
Now Mr. Belsham be his tutor , from Oxford .
`` But I shall not always be here , and when I die -- '' `` Do n't talk of dying , sire , '' say Dick .
`` Why , you be not so very old ; you may live for year yet .
Besides , I ca n't stand the notion .
You must live for ever ! ''
`` That sentiment be unusual in a Crown Prince , '' think the king ; but he be pleased for all that .
`` Well , to oblige you , I 'll try to struggle against old age , '' he say ; `` but there be always accident .
Now , Dick , like a good fellow , and to please me , work hard all to-morrow till the afternoon .
I 'll come in and help you .
And there 's always a splendid even rise of trout in the lake just now , so you can have your play after your work .
You 'll enjoy it more , and I daresay you be tire after a long day with the big game .
It use to tire me , I remember . ''
`` I be rather tired , '' say Dick ; and indeed he look a little pale , for a day in the inside of a gigantic sea-monster be fatigue , from the heat and want of fresh air which be usually find in such place .
`` I think I 'll turn in ; goodnight , my dear old governor , '' he say , in an affectionate manner , though he be not usually give to many word .
Then he go and kiss his mother and the Princess Jaqueline , whom he engage to row him on the lake next evening , while he fish .
`` And do n't you go muff them with the landing-net , Jack , a you generally do , '' say his Royal Highness , a he light his bedroom candle .
`` I wish he would not call me Jack , '' say the princess to the queen .
`` It 's good than Lina , my dear , '' say her Majesty , who in late life have become fond of her little joke ; `` that always sound a if someone else be fatter , -- and I hope there be not someone else . ''
The princess be silent , and fix her eye on her book .
Presently the king come in , and play a game with Lina at picquet .
When they be all go to bed , he say : `` Just come into the study , Lina .
I want you to write a few letter for me . ''
The princess follow him and take her seat at the write table .
The letter be very short .
One be to Herr Schnipp , tailor to the king and royal family ; another be to the royal swordmaker , another to the bootmaker , another to the optician , another to the tradesman who supply the august family with carpet and rug , another to his Majesty 's hatter .
They be all summon to be at the palace early next morning .
Then his Majesty yawn , apologise , and go to bed .
The princess also go to her room , or bower a it be then call , but not to sleep .
She be unhappy that Dick do not satisfy his father , and that he be so careless , and also about other thing .
`` And why do the king want all these tailor and hatter so suddenly , telescope-makers and swordmakers and shoemaker , too ? ''
she ask herself , a she stand at the window watch the moon .
`` I could find out .
I could turn myself into a dog or a cat , and go into the room where he be give his order .
But that be awkward , for when the servant see Rip '' -LRB- that be the dog -RRB- `` in two place at once , they begin to think the palace be haunt , and it make people talk .
Besides , I know it be wrong to listen to what one be not mean to hear .
It be often difficult to be a magician and a good girl .
The temptation be so strong , strong than most people allow for . ''
So she remain , with the moon shin on her pretty yellow hair and her white dress , wonder what the king intend to do , and whether it be something that Dick would not like .
`` How stupid of me , '' she say at length , `` after all the lesson I have have .
Why , I can drink the moon ! ''
Now , this be a way of know what anyone else be think of and intend to do , for the moon see and know everything .
Whether it be quite fair be another matter ; but , at all event , it be not listen .
And anyone may see that , if you be a magician , like the Princess Jaqueline , a great many difficult question a to what be right and wrong at once occur which do not trouble other people .
King Prigio 's secret , why he send for the tailor and the other people , be his own secret .
The princess decide that she would not find it out by turn herself into Rip or the cat -LRB- whose name be Semiramis -RRB- , and , so far , she be quite right .
But she be very young , and it never occur to her that it be just as wrong to find out what the king meant by drink the moon a by listen in disguise .
As she grow old she learn to know well ; but this be just the danger of teach young girl magic , and for that very reason it have be give up in most country .
However , the princess do not think about right and wrong , unluckily .
She go to the bookcase and take down her Cornelius Agrippa , in one great tall black volume , with silver clasp which nobody else could open ; for , a the princess say , there be book which it would never do to leave lie about where the servant or anybody could read them .
Nobody could undo the clasp , however strong or clever he might be ; but the princess just breathe on them and make a sign , and the book fly open at the right place -- Book IV . , chapter vi . , about the middle of page 576 .
The magic spell be in Latin , of course ; but the princess knew Latin very well , and soon she have the magic song by heart .
Then she close the book and put it back on the shelf .
Then she throw open the window and draw back the curtain , and put out all the light except two scent candle that burn with a white fire under a round mirror with a silver frame , opposite the window .
And into that mirror the moon shone white and full , fill all the space of it , so that the room be steep in a strange silver light .
Now the whole room seem to sway gently , wave and tremble ; and a it tremble it sound and rang with a low silver music , a if it be fill with the wave of the sea .
Then the princess take a great silver basin , cover with strange black sign and figure raise in the silver .
She pour water into the basin , and a she pour it she sing the magic spell from the Latin book .
It be something like this , in English : `` Oh Lady Moon , on the water rid , On shin water , in silver sheen , Show me the secret the heart be hide , Show me the truth of the thought , oh Queen !
`` Oh water white , where the moon be rid , That know what shall be and what have be , Tell me the secret the heart be hide , Wash me the truth of it , clear and clean ! ''
As she sing the water in the silver basin foam and bubble , and then fell still again ; and the princess knelt in the middle of the room , and the moon and the white light from the mirror of the moon fell in the water .
Then the princess raise the basin , and stoop her mouth to it and drink the water , spill a few drop , and so she drink the moon and the knowledge of the moon .
Then the moon be darken without a cloud , and there be darkness in the sky for a time , and all the dog in the world begin to howl .
When the moon shone again , the princess rise and put out the two white light , and draw the curtain ; and presently she go to bed .
-LCB- The Princess drink the Moon : p41.jpg -RCB- `` Now I know all about it , '' she say .
`` It be clever ; everything the king do be clever , and he be so kind that I daresay he do not mean any harm .
But it seem a cruel trick to play on poor Ricardo .
However , Jaqueline be on the watch , and I 'll show them a girl can do more than people think , '' -- a , indeed , she could .
After meditate in this way , the princess fell sleep , and do not waken till her maid come to call her .
`` Oh !
your Royal Highness , what 's this on the floor ? ''
say the faithful Rosina , a she be arrange the princess 's thing for her to get up .
`` Why , what be it ? ''
ask the princess .
`` Ever so many -- four , five , six , seven -- little shining drop of silver lie on the carpet , a if they have melt and fall there ! ''
`` They have not hurt the carpet ? ''
say the princess .
`` Oh dear !
the queen wo n't be please at all .
It be a little chemical experiment I be try last night . ''
But she know very well that she must have drop seven drop of the enchanted water .
`` No , your Royal Highness , the carpet be not harm , '' say Rosina ; `` only your Royal Highness should do these thing in the laboratory .
Her Majesty have often speak about it . ''
`` You be quite right , '' say the princess ; `` but a there be no harm do , we 'll say nothing about it this time .
And , Rosina , you may keep the silver drop for yourself . ''
`` Your Royal Highness be always very kind , '' say Rosina , which be true ; but how much good and wise it be not to begin to deceive !
We never know how far we may be carry , and so Jaqueline find out .
For when she go down to breakfast , there be the king in a great state of excitement , for him .
`` It 's most extraordinary , '' say his Majesty .
`` What be ? ''
ask the queen .
`` Why , do n't you notice it ?
No , you have go to bed before it happen .
But I be take a walk in the moonlight , on the balcony , and I observe it carefully . ''
`` Observed what , my dear ? ''
ask the queen , who be pour out the tea .
`` Did n't you see it , Dick ?
Late a usual , you young dog ! ''
the king remark a Ricardo enter the room .
`` See what , sir ? ''
say Dick .
`` Oh , you be asleep hour before , now I think of it !
But it be the most extraordinary thing , an unpredicted eclipse of the moon !
You must have notice it , Jaqueline ; you sit up later .
How the dog howl ! ''
`` No ; I mean yes , '' murmur poor Jaqueline , who of course have cause the whole affair by her magic art , but who have forget , in the excitement of the moment , that an eclipse of the moon , especially if entirely unexpected , be likely to attract very general attention .
Jaqueline could not bear to tell a fib , especially to a king who have be so kind to her ; besides , fib would not alter the fact .
`` Yes , I do see it , '' she admit , blush .
`` Had it not be predict ? ''
`` Not a word about it whisper anywhere , '' say his Majesty .
`` I look up the almanack at once .
It be the most extraordinary thing I ever saw , and I 've see a good many . ''
`` The astronomer must be duffer , '' say Prince Ricardo .
`` I never think there be much in physical science of any sort ; most dreary stuff .
Why , they say the earth go round the sun , whereas any fool can see it be just the other way on . ''
King Prigio be strike aghast by these sentiment in the mouth of his son and heir , the hope of Pantouflia .
But what be the king to say in reply ?
The astronomer of Pantouflia , who conceive that they know a great deal , have certainly be take by surprise this time .
Indeed , they have not yet satisfactorily explain this eclipse of the moon , though they have write volume about it .
`` Why , it may be the sun next ! ''
exclaim his Majesty .
`` Anything may happen .
The very law of gravitation themselves may go askew ! ''
At this moment the butler , William , who have be in the queen 's family when she be a girl , enter , and announce : `` Some of the royal tradesman , by appointment , to see your Majesty . ''
So the king , who have scarcely eat any breakfast , much to the annoyance of the queen , who be not agitate by eclipse , go out and join the tailor and the rest of them .
CHAPTER III .
The Adventure of the Shopkeepers .
-LCB- Man with sword : p48.jpg -RCB- Dick go on with his breakfast .
He eat cold pastry , and poach egg , and ham , and roll , and raspberry jam , and hot cake ; and he drink two cup of coffee .
Meanwhile the king have join the tradesman who attend by his order .
They be all meet in the royal study , where the king make them a most splendid bow , and request them to be seat .
But they decline to sit in his sacred presence , and the king observe that , in that case he must stand up .
`` I have invite you here , gentleman , '' he say , `` on a matter of merely private importance , but I must request that you will be entirely silent a to the nature of your duty .
It be difficult , I know , not to talk about one 's work , but in this instance I be sure you will oblige me . ''
`` Your Majesty have only to command , '' say Herr Schnipp .
`` There have be monarchs , in neighbour kingdom , who would have cut off all our head after we have do a bit of secret business ; but the mere word of your Majesty be law to your loving subject . ''
The other merchant murmur assent , for King Prigio be really like by his people .
He be always good-tempered and polite .
He never go to war with anybody .
He spend most of the royal income on public object , and of course there be scarcely any tax to speak of .
Moreover , he have abolish what be call compulsory education , or make everybody go to school whether he like it or not ; a most mischievous and tyrannical measure !
`` A fellow who ca n't teach himself to read , '' say the king , `` be not worth teach . ''
For all these reason , and because they be so fond of the queen , his subject be ready to do anything in reason for King Prigio .
Only one tradesman , bow very deep and blushing very much , say : `` Your Majesty , will you hear me for one moment ? ''
`` For an hour , with pleasure , Herr Schmidt , '' say the monarch .
`` It be an untradesman-like and an unusual thing to decline an order ; and if your Majesty ask for my heart 's blood , I be ready to shed it , not to speak of anything in the line of my business -- namely , boot and shoe making .
But keep a secret from my wife , I fairly own to your Majesty that I can not . ''
Herr Schmidt go down on his knee and wept .
-LCB- Herr Schmidt go down on his knee : p52.jpg -RCB- `` Rise , Herr Schmidt , '' say the king , take him by the hand .
`` A more honourable and chivalrous confession of an amiable weakness , if it be to be call a weakness , I never hear .
Sir , you have be true to your honour and your prince , in face of what few men can bear , the chance of ridicule .
There be no one here , I hope , but respect and will keep the secret of Herr Schmidt 's confession ? ''
The assembled shopkeeper could scarcely refrain from tear .
`` Long live King Prigio the Good ! ''
they exclaim , and vow that everything should be keep dark .
`` Indeed , sire , '' say the swordmaker , `` all the rest of u be bachelor . ''
`` That be none the worse for my purpose gentleman , '' say his Majesty ; `` but I trust that you will not long deprive me of son and subject worthy to succeed to such father .
And now , if Herr Schmidt will kindly find his way to the buttery , where refreshment be ready , I shall have the pleasure of conduct you to the scene of your labour . ''
Thus speaking , the king , with another magnificent bow , lead the way upstairs to a little turret-room , in a deserted part of the palace .
Bidding the tradesman enter , he show them a large collection of miscellaneous thing : an old cap or two , a pair of boot of a sort long out of fashion , an old broadsword , a shabby old Persian rug , an ivory spy - glass , and other article .
These be , in fact , the fairy present , which have be give to the king at his christening , and by aid of which -LRB- and his natural acuteness -RRB- he have , in his youth , succeed in many remarkable adventure .
The cap be the Wishing Cap and the Cap of Darkness .
The rug be the famous carpet which carry it owner through the air wherever he wish to go .
The sword be the Sword of Sharpness .
The ivory glass show you anyone you want to see , however far off .
The boot be the Seven-league Boots , which Hop-o ' - my-Thumb stole from the Ogre about 1697 .
There be other valuable object , but these be the most useful and celebrate .
Of course the king do not tell the tradesman what they be .
`` Now , gentleman , '' say his Majesty , `` you see these old thing .
For reason which I must ask you to excuse me for keep to myself , I wish you to provide me with object exactly and precisely similar to these , with all the look of age . ''
The tradesman examine the object , each choose that in his own line of business .
`` As to the sword , sire , '' say the cutler , `` it be an Andrea Ferrara , a fine old blade .
By a lucky accident , I happen to have one at home in a small collection of ancient weapon , exactly like it .
This evening it shall be at your Majesty 's disposal . ''
`` Perhaps , Herr Schnitzler , you will kindly write an order for it , a I wish no one of you to leave the palace , if you can conveniently stay , till your business be finish . ''
`` With pleasure , your Majesty , '' say the cutler .
`` As to the old rug , '' say the upholsterer , `` I have a Persian one quite identical with it at home , at your Majesty 's service . ''
`` Then you can do like Herr Schnitzler , '' who be the cutler .
`` And I , '' say the hatter , `` have two old cap just like these , part of a bankrupt theatrical stock . ''
`` We be most fortunate , '' say the king .
`` The boot , now I come to think of it , be unimportant , at least for the present .
Perhaps we can borrow a pair from the theatre . ''
`` As for the glass , '' say the optician , `` if your Majesty will allow me to take it home with me -- '' `` I be afraid I can not part with it , '' say the king ; `` but that , too , be unimportant , or not very press . ''
Then he call for a servant , to order luncheon for the shopkeeper , and paper for them to write their order on .
But no one be within hearing , and in that very old part of the palace there be no bell .
`` Just pardon me for an instant , while I run downstairs , '' say his Majesty ; `` and , it seem a strange thing to ask , but may I advise you not to sit down on that carpet ?
I have a reason for it . ''
In fact , he be afraid that someone might sit down on it , and wish he be somewhere else , and be carry away , a be the nature of the carpet .
King Prigio be not absent a minute , for he meet William on the stair ; but when he come back , there be not one single person in the turret-room !
`` Where on earth be they ? ''
cry the king , rush through all the room in that part of the castle .
He shout for them , and look everywhere ; but there be not a trace of tailor , hatter , optician , swordmaker , upholsterer .
The king hasten to a window over the gate , and saw the sentinel on duty .
`` Hi ! ''
he call .
And the sentinel turn round , look up , and salute .
`` Have you see anyone go out ? ''
he cry .
`` No one , sire , '' answer the soldier .
The king , who begin to guess what have happen , hurry back to the turret-room .
There be all the tradesman with parcel under their arm .
`` What mean this , gentleman ? ''
say his Majesty , severely .
`` For what reason do you leave the room without my permission ? ''
They all kneel down , humbly implore his compassion .
`` Get up , you donkeys ! ''
say the king , forget his politeness .
`` Get up , and tell me where you have be hide yourselves . ''
The hatter come forward , and say : `` Sire , you will not believe me ; indeed , I can scarcely believe it myself ! ''
`` Nor none of u ca n't , '' say the swordmaker .
`` We have be home , and bring the article .
All order execute with punctuality and dispatch , '' he add , quote his own advertisement without thinking of it .
On this the swordmaker take out and exhibit the Andrea Ferrara blade , which be exactly like the Sword of Sharpness .
The upholsterer undo his parcel , and there be a Persian rug , which no one could tell from the magical carpet .
The hatter be fumble with the string of his parcel , when he suddenly remember , what the king in his astonishment have not notice , that he have a cap on himself .
He pull it off in a hurry , and the king at once saw that it be his Wishing Cap , and understood all about the affair .
The hatter , in his absence , have try on the Wishing Cap , and have wish that he himself and his friend be all at home and back again with their ware at the palace .
And what he wish happen , of course , a be natural .
In a moment the king saw how much talk this business would produce in the country , and he decide on the best way to stop it .
Seizing the Wishing Cap , he put it on , wish all the tradesman , include the shoemaker , back in the town at their shop , and also wish that none of them should remember anything about the whole affair .
In a moment he be alone in the turret-room .
As for the shopkeeper , they have a kind of idea that they have dream something odd ; but , a it go no further , of course they do not talk about it , and nobody be any the wiser .
`` Owl that I be ! ''
say King Prigio to himself .
`` I might have good wish for a complete set of sham fairy thing which would not work .
It would have save a great deal of trouble ; but I be so much out of the habit of use the cap , that I never think of it .
However , what I have get will do very well . ''
Then , put on the Cap of Darkness , that nobody might see him , he carry all the real fairy article away , except the Seven-league Boots , to his own room , where he lock them up , leave in their place the sham Wishing Cap , the sham Cap of Darkness , the sham Sword of Sharpness , and the carpet which be not a magic carpet at all .
His idea be , of course , that Ricardo would start on an expedition confiding in his fairy thing , and he would find that they do not act .
Then he would be leave to his own cleverness and courage to get him out of the scrape .
That would teach him , think the king , to depend on himself , and to set a proper value on cleverness and learning , and mind his book .
Of course he might have lock the thing up , and forbidden Ricardo to touch them , but that might have seem harsh .
And , a you may easily imagine , with all the power at his command , the king fancy he could easily rescue Ricardo from any very serious danger at the hand of giant or magician or monster .
He only want to give him a fright or two , and make him respect the judgment of old and wise people than himself .
CHAPTER IV .
Two Lectures .
-LCB- The Prince with the telescope : p64.jpg -RCB- For several day Prince Ricardo mind his book , and , accord to his tutor , make considerable progress in polite learning .
Perhaps he ought not to be praise too highly for this , because , in fact , he saw no mean of distinguish himself by adventure just at that time .
Every morning he would climb the turret and sweep the horizon , and even much beyond the horizon , with the ivory spy-glass .
But look a he would , he saw no monster prey on human-kind anywhere , nor princess in distress .
To be sure he saw plenty of poor people in distress , and , be a good-hearted , though careless , lad , Dick would occasionally fly off with the Purse of Fortunatus in his pocket , and give them as much money a they need -- it cost him nothing .
But this be not the kind of adventure which he enjoy .
Dragons for his money !
One day the Princess Jaqueline take a curious plan of show Ricardo how little interest , after all , there be in perform the most wonderful exploit without any real difficulty or danger .
They be drift before a light breeze on a hill lake ; Ricardo be fish , and Jaqueline be scull a stroke now and then , just to keep the boat right with the wind .
Ricardo have very bad sport , when suddenly the trout begin to rise all over the lake .
Dick get excite , and stumble about the boat from stern to bow , trip over Jaqueline 's foot , and nearly upset the vessel in his hurry to throw his fly over every trout he saw feeding .
-LCB- Drifting in a light breeze : p66.jpg -RCB- But , a too often occur , they be take one particular fly which be on the water , and would look at nothing else .
`` Oh , bother them ! ''
cry Ricardo .
`` I ca n't find a fly in my book in the least like that little black one they be feed on ! ''
He try half-a-dozen different fly-hooks , but all to no purpose ; he lose his temper , get his tackle entangle in Jaqueline 's hair and then in the landing-net ; and , though such a big boy , he be nearly cry with vexation .
The Princess Jaqueline , with great pain and patience , disentangle the casting line , first from her hair , which Ricardo be anxious to cut -LRB- the great stupid oaf , -- her pretty hair ! -RRB-
then from the landing-net ; but Dick have grow sulky .
`` It 's no use , '' he say ; `` I have not a fly that will suit .
Let 's go home , '' and he throw a tin can at a rise trout .
`` Now , Dick , '' say Jaqueline , `` you know I can help you .
I do not learn magic for nothing .
Just you look the other way for a minute or two , and you will find the right fly at the end of your line . ''
Dick turn his head away -LRB- it be not proper to look on at magical art -RRB- , and then in a moment , saw the right hook on his cast ; but Jaqueline be not in the boat .
She have turn herself into an artificial fly -LRB- a small black gnat -RRB- , and Dick might set to his sport again .
`` What a trump that girl be , '' he say aloud .
`` Clever , too ! ''
and he begin cast .
He get a trout every cast , great big one , over a pound , and soon he have a basketful .
But he begin to feel rather bore .
`` There 's not much fun take them , '' he say , `` when they be so silly . ''
At that very moment he notice that the fly be off his cast , and Jaqueline be sit at the oar .
`` You see , Ricardo , '' she say , `` I be right after all .
There be not much pleasure in sport that be easy and certain .
Now , apply this moral to dragon-killing with magic instrument .
It may be useful when one be oblige to defend oneself , but surely a prince ought not to give his whole time to nothing else ! ''
Dick have no answer ready , so he only grumble : `` You 're always preach at me , Jack ; everybody always be .
I seem to have be bear just to be preach at . ''
Some people be ; and it do grow rather tedious in the long run .
But perhaps what Jaqueline say may have make some impression on Ricardo , for he stick to his book for week , and be get into decimal fraction and Euclid .
All this , of course , please the king very much , and he begin to entertain hope of Ricardo 's become a wise and learn prince , and a credit to his illustrious family .
Things be not always to go smoothly , far from it ; and it be poor Jaqueline who fell into trouble next .
She have be very ready to lecture Dick , a we saw , and take a good deal of credit to herself for his steadiness .
But one day King Prigio happen to meet Jaqueline 's maid , Rosina , on the stair ; and a Rosina be a pretty girl , and the king be always kind to his dependent , he stop to have a chat with her .
`` Why , Rosina , what a pretty little silver cross you be wear , '' he say , and he lift a curious ornament which hung from a chain on Rosina 's neck .
It consist of seven drop of silver , set like this : -LCB- The drop : p72.jpg -RCB- `` May I look at it ? ''
his Majesty ask , and Rosina , all in a flutter , take it off and give if to him .
`` H 'm ! ''
say the king .
`` Very curious and pretty !
May I ask you where you get this , Rosina ? ''
-LCB- `` H 'm ! ''
say the king .
`` Very curious and pretty ! ''
: p73.jpg -RCB- Now Rosina generally have her answer ready , and I be very sorry to say that she do not always speak the truth when she could think of anything well .
On this occasion she be anxious to think of something well , for fear of get Jaqueline into a scrape about the chemical experiment in her bedroom .
But Rosina be flutter , a we say , by the royal kindness , and she could think of nothing but to curtsy , and say : `` Please , your Majesty , the princess give me the drop . ''
`` Very interesting , '' say the king .
`` There be a little white moon shin in each of them !
I wonder if they shine in the dark ? ''
He open the door of a cupboard which have no window , where the housemaid keep her mop and broom , and shut himself in .
Yes , there be no mistake ; the darkness be quite light up with the sheen of the seven little moon in the silver .
The king look rather grave .
`` If you can trust me with this cross till to-morrow , Rosina , I should like to have it examine and analyse .
This be no common silver . ''
Of course Rosina could only curtsy , but she be very much alarm about the consequence to her mistress .
After luncheon , the king ask Jaqueline to come into his study , a he often do , to help him with his letter .
When they have sit down his Majesty say : `` My dear Jaqueline , I never interfere with your pursuit , but I almost doubt whether Cornelius Agrippa be a good book for a very young lady to read .
The Fairy Paribanou , I be sure , taught you nothing beyond the ordinary magical accomplishment suit to your rank ; but there be a great many thing in the Cornelius which I think you should not study till you be old and wiser . ''
`` What do your Majesty mean ? ''
say poor Jaqueline , feel very uncomfortable ; for the king have never lecture her before .
`` Why , '' say his Majesty , take the silver cross out of his pocket , `` do you not give this to Rosina ? ''
`` Yes , sire , I do give her the drop .
She have them make up herself . ''
`` Then give it back to her when you see her next .
I be glad you be frank , Jaqueline .
And you know , of course , that the drop be not ordinary silver ?
They be moon silver , and that can only be get in one way , so far a I know , at least -- when one spill the water when he , or she , be drink the moon .
Now , there be only one book which tell how that can be do , and there be only one reason for do it ; namely , to find out what be some other person 's secret .
I shall not ask you whose secret you want to find out , but I must request you never to do such a thing again without consult me .
You can have no reason for it , such a a great king might have whose enemy be plot against his country . ''
`` Oh , sire , I will tell you everything ! ''
cry Jaqueline .
`` No , do n't ; I do n't want to know .
I be sure you will make no use of your information which you think I should not approve of .
But there be another thing -- that eclipse of the moon !
Oh , Jaqueline , be it honourable , or fair to the astronomer and men of science , to say nothing about it ?
Their European reputation be seriously injure . ''
Poor Jaqueline could only cry .
`` Never mind , '' say his Majesty , comfort her .
`` There be no great harm do yet , and perhaps they would not believe you if you do explain ; but just think , if some people cease to believe in Science , what would they have leave to believe in ?
But you be young , of course , and can not be expect to think of everything . ''
`` I never think about it at all , '' wept Jaqueline . ''
` Evil be work by want of thought , ' '' say the king , quote the poet .
`` Now run away , dry your tear , and I think you have well bring me that book , and I 'll put it back in one of the locked-up shelf .
Later , when you be old , we shall see about it . ''
The princess fly to her room , and return with her book .
And the king kiss her , and tell her to go and see if her Majesty meant to take a drive .
`` I 'll never deceive him again , never ... unless it be quite necessary , '' say the princess to herself .
`` Indeed , it be not so easy to deceive the king .
What a lot he have read ! ''
In fact , King Prigio have be very studious when a young man , before he come to the throne .
`` Poor child ! ''
think the king .
`` No doubt she be try her fortune , wonder if Ricardo care for her a little .
Of course I could not let her tell me that , poor child ! ''
In this guess , a we know , his Majesty be mistake , which seldom happen to him .
`` I wonder who she be ? ''
the king go on speaking to himself .
`` That great booby , Ricardo , save her from wild bird , which be just go to eat her .
She be fasten to a mountain top , but where ?
that 's the question .
Ricardo never have any notion of geography .
It be across the sea , he notice that ; but which sea , -- Atlantic , Pacific , the Black Sea , the Caspian , the Sea of Marmora , the Red Sea , the Indian Ocean , the German Ocean , the Mediterranean ?
Her ornament be very peculiar ; there be a broad gold sun on her breast .
I must look at them again some day .
She say she be be sacrifice to wild bird -LRB- which her people worship -RRB- , because there be some famine , or war , or trouble in the country .
She say she be a Daughter of the Sun ; but that , of course , be absurd , unless -- By Jove !
I believe I have it , '' say the king , and he go into the royal library and be look for some old Spanish book , when his secretary come and say that the Russian Ambassador be wait for an interview with his Majesty .
`` Dismal old Muscovite ! ''
sigh the king .
`` A monarch have not a moment to himself for his private study .
Ah , Prigio !
why wert thou not bear to a private station ?
But Duty before everything , '' and wreathe his royal countenance in smile , his Majesty prepare to give Count Snoreonski an audience .
It be all about the attitude of Pantouflia in the event of a Polish invasion of Russia .
The king reassure Count Snoreonski , affirm that Pantouflia , while deeply regret the disturbed relation between two States in whose welfare she be deeply interested , would ever preserve an attitude of benevolent neutrality , unless her own interest be threaten .
`` I may give your message to my august mistress , the Czarina ? ''
say the ambassador .
`` By all mean , add an expression of my tender interest in her Majesty 's health and welfare , '' say the king , present the count at the same time with a magnificent diamond snuffbox contain his portrait .
The old count be affect to tear , and withdraw , while King Prigio say : `` I have not lose a day ; I have make an amiable but very stupid man happy . ''
Such be , or rather such be , the toil of monarch !
CHAPTER V. Prince Ricardo Crosses the Path of History .
-LCB- Hand reach for a crown with wing : p83.jpg -RCB- `` I say , Jack , '' say Prince Ricardo one morning , `` here 's a queer letter for me ! ''
King Prigio have go to a distant part of his dominion , on business of importance , and the young people be sit in the royal study .
The letter , which Ricardo hand to Jaqueline , be write on a great broad sheet of paper , fold up without any envelope , a be the custom then , and be seal with a huge seal in red wax .
`` I do n't know the arm , '' Ricardo say .
`` Oh , Ricardo , how you do neglect your Heraldry !
Old Green Stocking be in despair over your ignorance . ''
Now Green Stocking be the chief herald of Pantouflia , just like Blue Mantle in England .
`` Why , these be the Royal Arms of England , you great ignorant Dick ! ''
`` But Rome be n't in England , be it ?
-- and the post-mark be ` Roma ' : that 's Rome in some lingo , I expect .
It be in Latin , anyhow , I know .
Mortuus est Romae -- ` He die at Rome . '
It 's in the Latin Grammar .
Let 's see what the fellow say , anyhow , '' add Ricardo , break the seal .
`` He begin , ` Prins and dear Cousin ! '
I say , Jaqueline , he spell it ` Prins ; ' now it be P-R-I-N-C-E .
He must be an ignorant fellow ! ''
`` People in glass house should not throw stone , Dick , '' say Jaqueline .
`` He sign himself ` Charles , P. W. , ' '' say Ricardo , look at the end .
`` Who on earth can he be ?
Why do he not put ` P. W. Charles , ' if these be his initial ?
Look here , it 's rather a long letter ; you might read it to u , Jack ! ''
The princess take the epistle and begin : `` How nice it smell , all scent !
The paper be gilt-edged , too . ''
`` Luxurious beggar , whoever he be , '' say Ricardo .
`` Well , he say : ` Prins and dear Cousin , -- You and me ' -LRB- oh , what grammar ! -RRB-
` be much the same age , I be fifteen next birthday , and we should be well ackwainted .
All the wurld have herd of the fame of Prins Ricardo , whose name be feerd , and his sord dreded , wherever there be Monsters and Tirants .
Prins , you may be less well inform about my situation .
I have not kill any Dragguns , there be nun of them here ; but I have be under fiar , at Gaeta . '
Where 's Gaeta , Dick ? ''
`` Never heard of it , '' say Ricardo .
`` Well , it be in Italy , and it be besiege lately .
He go on : ` and I be tell that I do not misbehave myself , nor disgrace the blud of Bruce . ' ''
`` I 've hear of Robert Bruce , '' say Dick ; `` he be the man who do not kill the spider , but he crack the head of Sir Harry Bohun with one whack of his axe .
I remember him well enough . ''
`` Well , your correspondent seem to be a descendant of his . ''
`` That 's get more interesting , '' say Dick .
`` I wish my father would go to war with somebody .
With the Sword of Sharpness I 'd make the enemy whistle !
Drive on , Jack . '' ''
` As a prins in distress , I apeal to your valler , so renouned in Europe .
I be keep out of my own ; my royal father , King Gems , ' -- well , this be the bad spelling I ever saw in my life !
He mean King James , -- ` my royal father , King Gems , be druv into exile by a crewl Usurper , the Elector of Hannover .
King Gems be old , and like a quiat life ; but I be determine to make an effort , if I go alone , and Europe shall here of Prince Charles .
Having hear -- a who have not ?
-- of your royal Highness 's courage and sordsmanship , I throw myself at your foot , and implore you to asist a prins in distres .
Let our sords be draw together in the caus of freedom and an outraged country , my own . '' '
I remain , '' ` Prins and dear Cuzen , '' ` CHARLES , P. W. ' `` P. W. mean Prince of Wales , '' add Jaqueline .
`` He be turn out of England you know , and live at Rome with his father . ''
`` I like that chap , '' say Prince Ricardo .
`` He do not spell very well , a you say , but I sometimes make mistake myself ; and I like his spirit .
I 've be look out for an adventure ; but the big game be get shy , and my sword rust in his scabbard .
I 'll tell you what , Jack -- I 've an idea !
I 'll put him on the throne of his father ; it 's as easy a shell pea : and a for that other fellow , the Elector , I 'll send him back to Hanover , wherever that may be , and he can go on electing , and poll his vote in peace and quietness , at home .
Just wait till I spot the place . ''
The prince run up to the turret , fetch the magic spy-glass , and look up London , Rome , and Hanover , a you would in a map .
`` Well , Dick , but how do you mean to do it ? ''
`` Do it ?
-- nothing simpler !
I just take my Seven-league Boots , run over to Rome , pick up Prince Charles , put him on the magic carpet , fly to London , clap the Cap of Darkness on him so that nobody can see him , set him down on the throne of his father ; pick up the Elector , carry him over to his beloved Hanover , and the trick be do -- what they call a bloodless revolution in the history book . ''
`` But if the English do n't like Prince Charles when they get him ? ''
`` Like him ?
they 're sure to like him , a young fellow like that !
Besides , I 'll take the sword with me in case of accident . ''
`` But , Dick , it be your father 's rule that you be never to meddle in the affair of other country , and never to start on an expedition when he be not at home . ''
`` Oh , he wo n't mind this time !
There 's no kind of danger ; and I 'm sure he will approve of the principle of the thing .
Kings must stick up for each other .
Why , some elect character might come here and kick u out ! ''
`` Your father be not the sort of king who be kick out , '' say Jaqueline .
But there be no use in talk to Dick .
He make his simple preparation , and announce that he would be back in time for luncheon .
What be poor Jaqueline to do ?
She be extremely anxious .
She know , a we saw , what King Prigio have intend about change the fairy thing for others that would not work .
She be certain Dick would get himself into a scrape ; how be she to help him ?
She make up her mind quickly , while Dick be put his thing together .
She tell the queen -LRB- it be the near to the truth she could think of -RRB- that she `` be go for a turn with Dick . ''
Then she change herself into a mosquito -- a kind of gnat that bite -- and hide herself under a fold of Dick 's coat .
Of course he know nothing about her be there .
Then he start off in his Seven - league Boots , and before you could say `` Jack Robinson '' he be in Rome , in the ground of a splendid palace call the Villa Borghese .
There he saw an elderly gentleman , in a great curled wig , sound asleep on a seat beneath a tree .
The old gentleman have a long , pale , melancholy face , and across his breast be a broad blue ribbon with a star .
Ah !
how change be King James from the handsome Prince who have love fair Beatrix Esmond , thirty year ago !
Near him be two boy , not quite so old a Prince Ricardo .
The younger be a pretty dark boy , with a funny little roundabout white wig .
He be splendidly dress in a light-blue silk coat ; a delicate little lace scarf be tie round his neck ; he have lace ruffle fall about his little ringed hand ; he have a pretty sword , with a gold handle set with diamond -- in fact , he be the picture of a little dandy .
The other lad have a broad Scotch bonnet on , and no wig ; beautiful silky yellow lock fell about his shoulder .
He have lay his sword on the grass .
He be dress in tartan , which Ricardo have never see before ; and he wear a kilt , which be also new to Ricardo , who wonder at his bare leg -- for he be wear shoe with no stocking .
In his hand he hold a curious club , with a long , slim handle , and a head make heavy with lead , and defend with horn .
With this he be aim at a little white ball ; and suddenly he swing up the club and send the ball out of sight in the air , over several tree .
Prince Ricardo step up to this boy , take off his cap , and say : `` I think I have the honour of address the Prince of Wales ? ''
Prince Charles start at the sight of a gentleman in long riding-boots , girt with a broadsword , which be not then generally wear , and carry a Persian rug under his arm .
`` That be what I be call , sir , '' he say , `` by those who give me the title which be mine by right .
May I inquire the reason which offer me the pleasure of this unexpected interview ? ''
`` Oh , I 'm Ricardo of Pantouflia ! ''
say Dick .
`` I have a letter from you this morning , and I believe you want to see me . ''
`` From Pantouflia , sir , '' say Prince Charles ; `` why , that be hundred of league away ! ''
`` It be a good distance , '' say Dick ; `` but a mere step when you wear Seven - league Boots like mine . ''
`` My dear prince , '' say Charles , throw himself into his arm with rapture , and kiss him in the Italian fashion , which Dick do not half like , `` you be , indeed , worthy of your reputation ; and these be the celebrated Seven-league Boots ?
Harry , '' he cry to his brother , `` come here at once and let me present you to his Royal Highness , our illustrious ally , Prince Ricardo of Pantouflia .
The Duke of York -- Prince Ricardo of Pantouflia .
Gentlemen , know each other ! ''
The prince bow in the most stately manner .
`` I say , '' say Dick , who be seldom at all up to the standard of royal conversation , `` what 's that game you be play ?
It 's new to me .
You send the ball a tremendous long shot . ''
`` The game be call golf , and be the favourite pastime of my loyal Scottish subject , '' say Prince Charles .
`` For that reason , that I may be able to share the amusement of my people , whom I soon hope to lead to a glorious victory , follow by a peaceful and prosperous reign , I be acquire a difficult art .
I 'm practise walk without stocking , too , to harden my foot , '' he say , in a more familiar tone of voice .
`` I fancy there be plenty of long march before me , and I would not be a spear 's length behind the hardy Highlander . ''
`` By Jove !
I respect you , '' say Dick , with the great sincerity ; `` but I do n't think , with me on your side , you will need to make many march .
It will all be plain sailing . ''
`` Pray explain your plan , '' say Prince Charles .
`` The task of conquer back the throne of my father be not so simple a you seem to suppose . ''
`` I 've do a good many difficult thing , '' say Dick , modestly .
`` The conqueror of the magician , Gorgonzola , and the Giant Who never Knew when he have Enough , need not tell me that , '' say Prince Charles , with a courteous allusion to two of Ricardo 's most prodigious adventure .
`` Oh !
I 've very little to be proud of , really , '' say Dick , blushing ; `` anyone could do as much with my fairy thing , of which , no doubt , you have hear .
With a Sword of Sharpness and a Cap of Darkness , and so forth , you have a great pull over almost anything . ''
`` And you really possess those talisman ? ''
say the prince .
`` Certainly I do .
You see how short a time I take in come to your call from Pantouflia . ''
`` And have Holy Church , '' ask the Duke of York , with anxiety , `` give her sanction and her blessing to those instrument of an art , usually , in her wisdom , forbidden ? ''
`` Oh , never mind Holy Church , Harry ! ''
say Prince Charles .
`` This be business .
Besides , the English be Protestants . ''
`` I pray for their conversion daily , '' say the Duke of York .
`` The end justify the mean , you know , '' answer Prince Charles .
`` All 's fair in love and war . ''
`` I should think so , '' say Ricardo , `` especially against those brute of Electors ; they give trouble at home sometimes . ''
`` You , too , be plague with an Elector ? ''
ask Prince Charles . ''
An Elector ?
thousand of them ! ''
answer Dick , who never could understand anything about politics .
Prince Charles look puzzle , but request Dick to explain his great plan .
They sit down on the grass , and Ricardo show them how he mean to manage it , just a he have tell Jaqueline .
As he say , nothing could be simpler .
`` Let 's start at once , '' he say , and , induce Prince Charles to sit down on the magic carpet , he cry : `` England !
St. James 's Palace ! ''
But nothing happen !
The carpet be not the right magic carpet , but the one which King Prigio have put in it place .
`` Get on !
England , I say ! ''
cry Dick .
But there they remain , under the chestnut tree , sit on the carpet above the flowery grass .
-LCB- But there they remain : p99.jpg -RCB- Prince Charles leap to his foot ; his face like fire , his eye glow .
`` Enough of this fooling , sir ! ''
he say .
`` It be easy , but cowardly , to mock at an unfortunate prince .
Take your carpet and be off with you , out of the garden , or your shoulder shall taste my club . ''
`` There have be some mistake , '' Ricardo say ; `` the wrong carpet have be bring by accident , or the carpet have lose it power . ''
`` In this sacred city , bless by the presence of his Holiness the Pope , and the relic of so many martyr and saint , magic may well cease to be potent , '' say the Duke of York .
`` Nonsense !
You be an impostor , sir !
Leave my presence ! ''
cry Prince Charles , lift his golf-club .
Dick catch it out of his hand , and break across his knee a fine a driver a ever come from Robertson 's shop at St. Andrew 's .
`` The quarrel of prince be not settle with club , sir !
Draw and defend yourself ! ''
he say , kick off his boot and stand in his sock on the grass .
Think of the horror of poor Jaqueline , who witness this terrible scene of passion from a fold in Prince Ricardo 's dress !
What could the girl do to save the life of two prince , the hope of one nation , and of a respectable minority in another ?
In a moment Prince Charles 's rapier be shin in the sunlight , and he fell on guard in the most elegant attitude , his left hand gracefully raise and curve .
Dick draw his sword , but , a suddenly , throw it down again .
`` Hang it ! ''
he exclaim , `` I ca n't hit you with this !
This be the Sword of Sharpness ; it would cut through your steel and your neck at a touch . ''
He pause , and think .
`` Let me beseech your Royal Highness , '' he say to the Duke of York , who be in a terrible taking , `` to lend your blade to a hand not less royal than your own . ''
`` Give him it , Hal ! ''
say Prince Charles , who be stand with the point of his sword on the ground , and the blade bent .
`` He seem to believe in his own nonsense . ''
The duke yield his sword ; Dick take it , make a nourish , and rush at Prince Charles .
Now Ricardo have always neglect his fencing lesson .
`` Where 's the good of it , '' he use to ask , `` all that stamp , and posture-making , and ha - haing ?
The Sword of Sharpness be enough for me . ''
But now he could not , in honour , use the Sword of Sharpness ; so on he come , wave the rapier like a claymore , and make a slice at Prince Charles 's head .
The prince , very much surprise , parry in prime , riposte , and touch Dick on the hand .
At this moment the Princess Jaqueline do what she should have think of sooner .
She fly out of Dick 's coat , and stung old King James on his royal nose .
The king waken , nearly crush the princess -LRB- so dangerous be the practice of magic to the artist -RRB- , and then leap up , and saw Dick 's blade fly through the air , glitter in the sun .
The prince have disarm him .
`` Hullo !
what 's all this ?
A moi , mes gardes ! ''
cry the old king , in French and English ; and then he run up , just in time to hear Prince Charles say : `` Sir , take your life !
I can not strike an unarmed man .
A prince you may be , but you have not learn the exercise of gentleman . ''
`` What be all this , Carluccio ? ''
ask the old king .
`` Swords out !
brawling in my very presence !
blood drawn ! ''
for Dick 's hand be bleed a good deal .
Prince Charles , as briefly a possible , explain the unusual nature of the circumstance .
`` A king must hear both side , '' say King James .
`` What reply have you , sir , to make to his Royal Highness 's statement ? ''
`` The carpet would not work , sir , '' say Dick .
`` It never happen before .
Had I use my own sword , '' and he explain it property , `` the Prince of Wales would not be alive to tell his story .
I can say no more , beyond offer my apology for a disappointment which I could not have foreseen .
A gentleman can only say that he be sorry .
But wait ! ''
he add ; `` I can at least prove that my confidence in some of my resource be not misplace .
Bid me bring you something -- anything -- from the end of the earth , and it shall be in your hand .
I ca n't say fairer . ''
King James reflect , while Prince Ricardo be pull on the Seven-league Boots , which he have kick off to fight more freely , and while the Duke of York bandage Dick 's hand with a kerchief .
`` Bring me , '' say his Majesty , `` Lord Lovat 's snuff-mull . ''
`` Where do he live ? ''
say Dick .
`` At Gortuleg , in Scotland , '' answer King James .
Dick be out of sight before the word be fairly speak , and in ten minute be back , bear a large ram 's - horn snuff-box , with a big cairngorm set in the top , and the Frazer arm .
`` Most astonishing ! ''
say King James .
`` A miracle ! ''
say the Duke of York .
`` You have entirely clear your character , '' say the king .
`` Your honour be without a stain , though it be a pity about the carpet .
Your nobility in not use your magical sword , under the great provocation , reconcile me to this fresh blighting of my hope .
All my ally fail me , '' say the poor king with a sigh ; `` you alone have fail with honour .
Carluccio , embrace the prince ! ''
They fell into each other 's arm .
`` Prince , '' say Dick , `` you have teach me a lesson for which I shall not be ungrateful .
With any blade a gentleman should be able to hold his own in fair fight .
I shall no longer neglect my fencing lesson . ''
`` With any blade , '' say Prince Charles , `` I shall be happy to find Prince Ricardo by my side in a stricken field .
We shall not part till I have induce you to accept a sword which I can never hope to draw against another adversary so noble .
In war , my weapon be the claymore . ''
Here the prince offer to Ricardo the ruby-studded hilt of his rapier , which have a beautiful white shark-skin sheath .
`` You must accept it , sir , '' say King James ; `` the hilt hold the ruby of John Sobieski . ''
`` Thank you , prince , '' say Ricardo , `` for the weapon , which I shall learn to wield ; and I entreat you to honour me by receive this fairy gift -- which you do not need -- a ring which make all men faithful to the wearer . ''
The Prince of Wales bow , and place the talisman on his finger .
Ricardo then , after a few word of courtesy on both part , pick up his useless carpet , take his farewell of the royal party , and , with Jaqueline still hide under his collar , return at full speed , but with a heavy heart , to Pantouflia , where the palace gong be just sound for luncheon .
Ricardo never interfere in foreign affair again , but his ring prove very useful to Prince Charles , a you may have read in history .
CHAPTER VI .
Ricardo 's Repentance .
-LCB- Bottle of weapon salve : p109.jpg -RCB- The queen , a it happen fortunately , be lunch with one of the lady of her Court .
Ricardo do not come down to luncheon , and Jaqueline eat hers alone ; and very mournful she felt .
The prince have certainly not come well out of the adventure .
He have fail -LRB- a all attempt to restore the Stuarts always do -RRB- ; he have be wound , though he have never receive a scratch in any of his early exploit ; and if his honour be safe , and his good intention fully understood , that be chiefly due to Jaqueline , and to the generosity of King James and Prince Charles .
`` I wonder what he 's do ? ''
she say to herself , and at last she go up and knock at Ricardo 's door .
`` Go away , '' he say ; `` I do n't want to see anybody .
Who be it ? ''
`` It 's only me -- Jaqueline . ''
-LCB- `` It 's only me '' : p111.jpg -RCB- `` Go away !
I want nobody . ''
`` Do let me in , dear Dick ; I have good news for you , '' say the princess .
`` What be it ? ''
say Ricardo , unlock the door .
`` Why do you bother a fellow so ? ''
He have be cry -- his hand obviously hurt him badly ; he look , and indeed he be , very sulky .
`` How do you get on in England , Dick ? ''
ask the princess , take no notice of his bandaged hand .
`` Oh , do n't ask me ! ''
say Ricardo .
`` I 've not be to England at all . ''
`` Why , what happen ? ''
`` Everything that be horrid happen , '' say Dick ; and then , unable to keep it any longer to himself , he say : `` I 've fail to keep my promise ; I 've be insult , I 've be beat by a fellow young than myself ; and , oh !
how my hand do hurt , and I 've get such a headache !
And what be I to say to my mother when she ask why my arm be in a sling ?
and what will my father say ?
I 'm quite break down and desperate .
I think I 'll run away to sea ; '' and indeed he look very wild and miserable .
`` Tell me how it all happen , Dick , '' say the princess ; `` I 'm sure it 's not so bad a you make out .
Perhaps I can help you . ''
`` How can a girl help a man ? ''
cry Dick , angrily ; and poor Jaqueline , remember how she have help him , at the risk of her own life , when King James nearly crush her in the shape of a mosquito , turn her head away , and cry silently .
`` I 'm a beast , '' say Dick .
`` I beg your pardon , Jack dear .
You be always a trump , I will say ; but I do n't see what you can do . ''
Then he tell her all the story -LRB- which , of course , she know perfectly well already -RRB- , except the part play by the mosquito , of which he could not be aware .
`` I be sure it be not so bad a you make it out , Dick , '' she say .
`` You see , the old king , who be not very wise , but be a perfectly honourable gentleman , give you the high praise . ''
She think of lecture him a little about disobey his father , but it do not seem a good opportunity .
Besides , Jaqueline have be lecture herself lately , and have not enjoy it .
`` What be I to say to my mother ? ''
Dick repeat .
`` We must think of something to say , '' say Jaqueline .
`` I ca n't tell my mother anything but the truth , '' Ricardo go on .
`` Here 's my hand , how it do sting !
and she must find out . ''
`` I think I can cure it , '' say Jaqueline .
`` Did n't you say Prince Charles give you his own sword ? ''
`` Yes , there it be ; but what have that to do with it ? ''
`` Everything in the world to do with it , my dear Dick .
How lucky it be that he give it to you ! ''
And she run to her own room , and bring a beautiful golden casket , which contain her medicine .
Taking out a small phial , mark -LRB- in letter of emerald -RRB- : `` WEAPON SALVE , '' the princess draw the bright sword , extract a little of the ointment from the phial , and spread it on a soft silk handkerchief .
`` What be you go to do with the sword ? ''
ask Ricardo .
`` Polish it a little , '' say Jaqueline , smile , and she begin gently to rub , with the salve , the point of the rapier .
As she do so , Ricardo 's arm cease to hurt , and the look of pain pass from his mouth .
`` Why , I feel quite well ! ''
he say .
`` I can use my hand as well a ever . ''
Then he take off the stained handkerchief , and , lo , there be not even a mark where the wound have be !
For this be the famous Weapon Salve which you may read about in Sir Kenelm Digby , and which the Lady of Branxholme use , in The Lay of the Last Minstrel .
But the secret of make it have long be lose , except in Pantouflia .
`` You be the best girl in the world , Jaqueline , '' say Ricardo .
`` You may give me a kiss if you like ; and I wo n't call you ` Jack , ' or laugh at you for read book , any more .
There 's something in book after all . ''
The princess do not take advantage of Dick 's permission , but advise him to lie down and try to sleep .
`` I say , though , '' he say , `` what about my father ? ''
`` The king need never be tell anything about it , '' say Jaqueline , `` need he ? ''
`` Oh , that wo n't do !
I tell my father everything ; but then , I never have anything like this to tell him before .
Do n't you think , Jaqueline , you might break it to him ?
He 's very fond of you .
Just tell him what I tell you ; it 's every word of it true , and he ought to know .
He might see something about it in the Mercure de France . ''
This be the newspaper of the period .
`` I do n't think it will get into the paper , '' say Jaqueline , smile .
`` Nobody could tell , except the king and the prince , and they have reason for keep it to themselves . ''
`` I do n't trust that young one , '' say Dick , moodily ; `` I do n't care for that young man .
Anyway , my father must be tell ; and , if you wo n't , I must . ''
`` Well , I 'll tell him , '' say Jaqueline .
`` And now lie down till even . ''
After dinner , in the conservatory , Jaqueline tell King Prigio all about it .
His Majesty be very much move .
`` What extraordinary bad luck that family have ! ''
he think .
`` If I have not change the rug , the mere accident , Prince Charles would have din at St. James 's to-night , and King George in Hanover .
It be the very near thing ! ''
`` This meddling with practical affair will never do , '' he say aloud .
`` Dick have have a lesson , sire , '' say the princess .
`` He say he 'll never mix himself up with politics again , whatever happen .
And he say he mean to study all about them , for he feel frightfully ignorant , and , above all , he mean to practise his fencing . ''
These remark be not part of the conversation between Ricardo and Jaqueline , but she consider that Dick mean all this , and , really , he do .
`` That be well , as far a it go , '' say the king .
`` But , Jaqueline , about that mosquito ? ''
for she have tell him this part of the adventure .
`` That be a very convenient mosquito , though I do n't know how Dick be able to observe it from any distance .
I see your hand in that , my dear , and I be glad you can make such kind and wise use of the lesson of the good Fairy Paribanou .
Jaqueline , '' he add solemnly , lay his hand on her head , `` You have save the honour of Pantouflia , which be dearer to me than life .
Without your help , I tremble to think what might have occur . ''
The princess blush very much , and felt very happy .
`` Now run away to the queen , my dear , '' say his Majesty , `` I want to think thing over . ''
He do think them over , and the more he think the more he felt the inconvenience attend the possession of fairy thing .
`` An eclipse one day , as nearly a possible a revolution soon after ! ''
he say to himself .
`` But for Jaqueline , Ricardo 's conduct would have be blaze abroad , England would have be irritate .
It be true she can not get at Pantouflia very easily ; we have no sea-coast , and we be surround by friendly country .
But it would have be a ticklish and discreditable position .
I must really speak to Dick , '' which he do next morning after breakfast .
`` You have break my rule , Ricardo , '' he say .
`` True , there be no great harm do , and you have confess frankly ; but how be I to trust you any long ? ''
`` I 'll give you my sacred word of honour , father , that I 'll never meddle with politics again , or start on an expedition , without tell you .
I have have enough of it .
And I 'll turn over a new leaf .
I 've learn to be ashamed of my ignorance ; and I 've send for Francalanza , and I 'll fence every day , and read like anything . ''
`` Very good , '' say the king .
`` I believe you mean what you say .
Now go to your fence lesson . ''
`` But , I say , father , '' cry Ricardo , `` be it not strange about the magic carpet ? ''
`` I tell you not to trust to these thing , '' say the king .
`` Some enchanter may have deprive it of it power , it may be wear out , someone may have substitute a common Persian rug ; anything may happen .
You must learn to depend on yourself .
Now , be off with you , I 'm busy .
And remember , you do n't stir without my permission . ''
The prince run off , and presently the sound of stamp foot and '' un , deux ; doublez , degagez , vite ; contre de carte , '' and so forth , might be hear over a great part of the royal establishment .
CHAPTER VII .
Prince Ricardo and an Old Enemy .
-LCB- The Yellow Dwarf : p123.jpg -RCB- `` There be one brute I wish I could get upsides with , '' say Ricardo , at breakfast one morning , his mouth full of sardine .
`` Really , Ricardo , your language be most unprincely , '' say his august father ; `` I be always notice it .
You mean , I suppose , that there be one enemy of the human race whom you wish to abolish .
What be the name of the doom foe ? ''
`` Well , he be the great villain in history , '' say Ricardo .
`` You must have read about him , sir , the Yellow Dwarf . ''
`` Yes , I have certainly study what be tell u about him , '' say the king .
`` He be no favourite of mine . ''
`` He be the only one , if you notice , sir , of all the scoundrel about whom our ancestor inform u , who escape the doom which he richly merit at the sword of a good knight . ''
You may here remark that , since Dick take to his study , he could speak , when he choose , like a printed book , which be by no mean the case before .
`` If you remember , sir , he polish off -- I mean , he slew -- the King of the Golden Mines and the beautiful , though frivolous , Princess Frutilla .
All that the friendly Mermaid could do for them be to turn them into a pair of beautiful tree which intertwine their branch .
Not much use in that , sir !
And nothing be do to the scoundrel .
He may be go on still ; and , with your leave , I 'll go and try a sword-thrust with him .
Francalanza say I 'm improve uncommon . ''
`` You 'll take the usual Sword of Sharpness , '' say his Majesty .
`` What , sir , to a dwarf ?
Not I , indeed : a common small sword be good enough to settle him . ''
`` They say he be very cunning of fence , '' say the king ; `` and besides , I have hear something of a diamond sword that he steal from the King of the Golden Mines . ''
`` Very likely he have lose it or sell it , the shabby little miscreant ; however , I 'll risk it .
And now I must make my preparation . ''
The king do not ask what they be ; a a rule , they be simple .
But , be in the shop of the optician that day , stand with his back to the door , he hear Dick come in and order a pair of rose-coloured spectacle , with which he be at once provide .
The people of Pantouflia be accustom to wear them , say that they improve the complexion of lady whom they meet , and add cheerfulness to thing in general .
`` Just plain rose-coloured glass , Herr Spex , '' say Dick , `` I 'm not short - sight . ''
`` The boy be begin to show some sense , '' say the king to himself , know the nature and the difficulty of the expedition .
Ricardo do not disguise his intention of take with him a Dandie Dinmont terrier , name Pepper , and the king , who understand the motive of this precaution , silently approve .
`` The lad have come to some purpose and forethought , '' the king say , and he gladly advance a considerable sum for the purchase of crocodile ' egg , which can rarely be get quite fresh .
When Jaqueline have make the crocodile ' egg , with millet-seed and sugar-candy , into a cake for the Dwarf 's lion , Ricardo announce that his preparation be complete .
Not to be the mere slave of custom , he make this expedition on horseback , and the only magical thing he take with him be the Cap of Darkness -LRB- the one which would not work , but he do not know that -RRB- , and this he put in his pocket for future use .
With plenty of egg sandwich and marmalade sandwich , and cold minced-collop sandwich , he prick forth into the wilderness , make for the country inhabit by the Yellow Dwarf .
The princess be glad he be rid , for she privately accompany him in the disguise of a wasp ; and a wasp , of course , could not have keep up with him in his Seven-league Boots .
`` Hang that wops ! ''
say Prince Ricardo several time , buffet it with his pocket-handkerchief when it buzz in his ear and round his horse 's head .
-LCB- `` Hang that wops ! ''
say Prince Ricardo : p129.jpg -RCB- Meanwhile , King Prigio have take his precaution , which be perfectly simple .
When he think Ricardo be get near the place , the king put on his Wishing Cap , sit down before the magic crystal ball , and keep his eye on the proceeding , be ready to wish the right thing to help Ricardo at the right moment .
He leave the window wide open , smoke his cigar , and seem the pattern of a good and wise father watch the conduct of a promising son .
The prince rode and rode , sometimes take up Pepper on his saddle ; pass through forest , sleep at lonely inns , ford river , till one day he saw that the air be become Yellow .
He know that this show the neighbourhood of Jaunia , or Daunia , the country of the Yellow Dwarf .
He therefore draw bridle , place his rose-coloured spectacle on his nose and put spur to his horse , for the yellow light of Jaunia make people melancholy and cowardly .
As he prick on , his horse stumble and nearly come on it nose .
The prince notice that a steel chain have be draw across the road .
`` What caitiff have dare ! ''
he exclaim , when his hat be knock off by a well-aimed orange from a neighbouring orange-tree , and a vulgar voice squeak : `` Hi , Blinkers ! ''
There be the Yellow Dwarf , an odious little figure , sit suck an orange in the tree , swing his wooden shoe , and grin all over his wrinkled face .
`` Well , young Blinkers ! ''
say the Dwarf , `` what be you do on my ground ?
You 're a prince , by your look .
Yah !
down with king !
I 'm a man of the people ! ''
`` You 're a dwarf of the bad description , that 's what you be , '' say Ricardo ; `` and let me catch you , and I 'll flog the life out of you with my riding-whip ! ''
The very face of the Dwarf , even see through rose-coloured spectacle , make him nearly ill .
`` Yes , when you can catch me , '' say the Dwarf ; `` but that 's not to-day , nor yet to-morrow .
What be you do here ?
Are you an ambassador , maybe come to propose a match for me ?
I 'm not proud , I 'll hear you .
They say there 's a rather well-looking wench in your part , the Princess Jaqueline -- '' `` Mention that lady 's name , you villain , '' cry Dick , `` and I 'll cut down your orange-tree ! ''
and he wish he have bring the Sword of Sharpness , for you can not prod down a tree with the point of a rapier .
`` Fancy her yourself ? ''
say the Dwarf , show his yellow teeth with a detestable grin ; while Ricardo turn quite white with anger , and not know how to deal with this insufferable little monster .
`` I 'm a widower , I be , '' say the Dwarf , `` though I 'm out of mourning , '' for he wear a dirty clay-coloured Yellow jacket .
`` My illustrious consort , the Princess Frutilla , do not behave very nice , and I have to avenge my honour ; in fact , I 'm open to any offer , however humble .
Going at an alarm sacrifice !
Come to my box '' -LRB- and he point to a filthy clay cottage , all surround by thistle , nettle , and black boggy water -RRB- , `` and I 'll talk over your proposal . ''
`` Hold your impudent tongue ! ''
say Dick .
`` The Princess Frutilla be an injured saint ; and a for the lady whom I shall not name in your polluting presence , I be her knight , and I defy you to deadly combat ! ''
We may imagine how glad the princess be when -LRB- disguise a a wasp -RRB- she hear Dick say he be her knight ; not that , in fact , he have think of it before .
`` Oh !
you 're for a fight , be you ? ''
sneer the Dwarf .
`` I might tell you to hit one of your own weight , but I 'm not afraid of six of you .
Yah !
mammy 's brat !
Look here , young Blinkers , I do n't want to hurt you .
Just turn old Dobbin 's head , and trot back to your mammy , Queen Rosalind , at Pantouflia .
Does she know you 're out ? ''
`` I 'll be into you , pretty quick , '' say Ricardo .
`` But why do I bandy word with a miserable peasant ? ''
`` And do n't get much the best of them either , '' say the Dwarf , provokingly .
`` But I 'll fight , if you will have it . ''
The prince leap from his horse , leave Pepper on the saddle-bow .
No sooner have he touch the ground than the Dwarf shout : `` Hi !
to him , Billy !
to him , Daniel !
at him , good lion , at him ! ''
and , with an awful roar , two lion rush from a neighbouring potato-patch and make for Ricardo .
These be not ordinary lion , history avers , each have two head , each be eight foot high , with four row of teeth ; their skin as hard a nail , and bright red , like morocco .
-LCB- 135 -RCB- The prince do not lose his presence of mind ; hastily he throw the cake of crocodile ' egg , millet-seed , and sugar-candy to the lion .
This be a dainty which lion can never resist , and run greedily at it , with four tremendous snap , they get hold of each other by their jaw , and their eight row of teeth be lock fast in a grim and deadly struggle for existence !
The Dwarf take in the affair at a glance .
`` Cursed be he who teach you this ! ''
he cry , and then whistle in a shrill and vulgar manner on his very dirty finger .
At his call rush up an enormous Spanish cat , ready saddle and bridle , and dart fire from it eye .
To leap on it back , while Ricardo sprang on his own steed , be to the active Dwarf the work of a moment .
Then clap spur to it side -LRB- his spur grow naturally on his bare heel , horrible to relate , like a cock 's spur -RRB- and take his cat by the head , the Dwarf force it to leap on to Ricardo 's saddle .
The diamond sword which slew the king of the Golden Mines -- that invincible sword which hew iron like a reed -- be up and flash in the air !
At this very moment King Prigio , see , in the magic globe , all that pass , and despairing of Ricardo 's life , be just about to wish the dwarf at Jericho , when through the open window , with a tremendous whirr , come a huge vulture , and knock the king 's wish cap off !
Wishing be now of no use .
This odious fowl be the Fairy of the Desert , the Dwarf 's trust ally in every sort of mischief .
The vulture fly instantly out of the window ; and ah !
with what awful anxiety the king again turn his eye on the crystal ball only a parent 's heart can know .
Should he see Ricardo bleed at the foot of the abominable dwarf ?
The king scarcely dare to look ; never before have he know the nature of fear .
However , look he do , and saw the dwarf un-catted , and Pepper , the gallant Dandie Dinmont , with his teeth in the throat of the monstrous Spanish cat .
No sooner have he see the cat leap on his master 's saddle-bow than Pepper , true to the instinct of his race , sprang at it neck , just behind the head -- the usual place , -- and , with an awful and despair mew , the cat -LRB- Peter be it name -RRB- give up it life .
The dwarf be on his foot in a moment , wave the diamond sword , which light up the whole scene , and yell taunt .
Pepper be fly at his heel , and , with great agility , be keep out of the way of the invincible blade .
`` Ah ! ''
scream the Dwarf a Pepper get him by the ankle .
`` Call off your dog , you coward , and come down off your horse , and fight fair ! ''
At this moment , bleed yellow blood , dusty , mad with pain , the dwarf be a sight to strike terror into the bold .
Dick sprang from his saddle , but so terrific be the appearance of his adversary , and so dazzling be the sheen of the diamond sword , that he put his hand in his pocket , draw out , a he suppose , the sham Cap of Darkness , and place it on his head .
`` Yah !
who 's your hatter ? ''
scream the infuriated dwarf . ''
I see you ! ''
and he disengage , feint in carte , and make a lunge in seconde at Dick which no mortal blade could have parry .
The prince -LRB- thanks to his excellent training -RRB- just succeed in step aside , but the dwarf recover with astonishing quickness .
`` Coward , lache , poltroon , runaway ! ''
he hiss through his clenched teeth , and be about to make a thrust in tierce which must infallibly have be fatal , when the Princess Jaqueline , in her shape a a wasp , sting him fiercely on the wrist .
With an oath so awful that we dare not set it down , the dwarf drop the diamond sword , suck his injured limb , and begin hop about with pain .
In a moment Prince Ricardo 's foot be on the blade of the diamond sword , which he pass thrice through the body of the Yellow Dwarf .
Squirming fearfully , the little monster expire , his last look a defiance , his late word an insult : `` Yah !
Gig-lamps ! ''
Prince Ricardo wipe the diamond blade clean from it yellow stain .
-LCB- The fight with the Yellow Dwarf : p141.jpg -RCB- `` Princess Frutilla be avenge ! ''
he cry .
Then pensively look at his fallen foe , `` Peace to his ash , '' he say ; `` he die in harness ! ''
Turning at the word , he observe that the two lion be stiff and dead , lock in each other 's gory jaw !
At that moment King Prigio , look in the crystal ball , give a great sigh of relief .
`` All 's well that end well , '' he say , light a fresh cigar , for he have allow the other to go out in his excitement , `` but it be a fight !
I be not satisfied , '' his Majesty go on reflect , `` with this plan of change the magical article .
The first time be of no great importance , and I could not know that the boy would start on an expedition without give me warn .
But , in to-day 's affair he owe his safety entirely to himself and Pepper , '' for he have not see the wasp .
`` The Fairy of the Desert quite baffle me : it be terrible .
I shall restore the right fairy thing to-night .
As to the Fairy of the Desert , '' he say , forget that his Wishing Cap be on , `` I wish she be dead ! ''
A hollow groan and the sound of a heavy body fall interrupt the king .
He look all about the room , but saw nothing .
He be alone !
`` She must have be in the room , invisible , '' say the king ; and , of course , she have die in that condition .
`` But I must find her body ! ''
The king grope about everywhere , like a blind man , and at last discover the dead body of the wicked fairy lie on the sofa .
He could not see it , of course , but he felt it with his hand .
`` This be very awkward , '' he remark .
`` I can not ring for the servant and make them take her away .
There be only one plan . ''
So he wish she be in her family pyramid , in the Egyptian desert , and in a second the sofa be unoccupied .
`` A very dangerous and revengeful enemy be now remove from Ricardo 's path in life , '' say his Majesty , and go to dress for dinner .
Meanwhile Ricardo be rid gaily home .
The yellow light of Jaunia have vanish , and pure blue sky break overhead as soon a the dauntless Dwarf have draw his late breath .
The poor , tremble people of the country come out of their hut and accompany Dick , cheering , and throw rose which have be yellow rose , but blush red as soon a the Dwarf expire .
They attend him to the frontier of Pantouflia , sing his praise , which Ricardo have the new and inestimable pleasure of know to be deserve .
`` It be sharp work , '' he say to himself , `` but much more exciting and glorious than the usual business . ''
On his return Dick do not fail to mention the wasp , and again the king felt how great be his debt to Jaqueline .
But they do not think it well to trouble the good queen with the danger Dick have encounter .
CHAPTER VIII .
The Giant who do not know when he have have Enough .
-LCB- 146 -RCB- -LCB- The enormous letter : p146.jpg -RCB- One morning the post bring a truly enormous letter for Dick .
It be as broad a a table-cloth , and the address be write in letter as long a a hoop-stick .
`` I seem to know that hand , '' say Ricardo ; `` but I think the finger which hold the pen have long be cold in death . ''
He open , with his sword , the enormous letter , which be couch in the following term : `` The Giant a do not know when he have have enuf , present his compliment to Prince Ricardo ; and I , have recover from the effect of our little recent rally , will be happy to meet you in the old place for a return-match .
I not be handy with the pen , the Giant hop you will excuse mistake and bad writing . ''
Dick simply gaze with amazement .
`` If ever I think an enemy be kill and do for , it be that Giant , '' say he .
`` Why , I make mere mince-collops of him ! ''
However , he could not refuse a challenge , not to speak of his duty to rid the world of so greedy and odious a tyrant .
Dick , therefore , take the usual thing -LRB- which the king have secretly restore -RRB- , but first he try them -- put on the Cap of Darkness before the glass , in which he could not see himself .
On second thought , he consider it unfair to take the cap .
All the other article be in work order .
Jaqueline on this occasion follow him in the disguise of a crow , fly overhead .
On reach the cavern -- a huge tunnel in the rock -- where the Giant live , Ricardo blow a blast on the horn which hung outside , and in obedience to a write notice , knock also with a mace provide by the Giant for that purpose .
Presently he hear heavy footstep sound along the cavern , and the Giant come out .
He be above the common height for giant , and his whole face and body be seam over with little red line , cross each other like tartan .
These be mark of encounter , in which he have be cut to bit and come together again ; for this be his peculiarity , which make him so dangerous .
If you cut off his head , he go on just a before , only without it ; and so about everything else .
By dint of magic , he could put his head on again , just a if it have be his hat , if you give him time enough .
On the last occasion of their meeting , Ricardo have leave him in a painfully scattered condition , and think he be do for .
But now , except that a bird have fly away with the little finger of his left hand and one of his ear , the Giant be as comfortable a anyone could be in his situation .
`` Mornin ' sir , '' he say to Dick , touch his forehead with his hand .
`` Glad to see you look so well .
No bad feeling , I hope , on either side ? ''
`` None on mine , certainly , '' say Ricardo , hold out his hand , which the Giant take and shake ; `` but Duty be Duty , and giant must go .
The modern world have no room for them . ''
`` That 's hearty , '' say the Giant ; `` I like a fellow of your kind .
Now , shall we toss for corner ? ''
`` All right ! ''
say Dick , call `` Heads '' and win .
He take the corner with the sun on his back and in the Giant 's face .
To it they go , the Giant aim a blow with his club that would have fell an elephant .
Dick dodge , and cut off the Giant 's foot at the ankle .
`` First blood for the prince ! ''
say the Giant , come up smile .
`` Half - minute time ! ''
He occupy the half-minute in place the foot neatly beside each other , a if they have be a pair of boot .
Round II .
-- The Giant sparring for wind , Ricardo cut him in two at the waist .
The Giant fold his leg up neatly , like a pair of trouser , and lay them down on a rock .
He have now some difficulty in get rapidly over the ground , and stand mainly on the defensive , and on his waist .
Round III .
-- Dick bisect the Giant .
Both side now attack him on either hand , and the foot kick him severely .
`` No kicking ! ''
say Dick .
`` Nonsense ; all fair in war ! ''
say the Giant .
But do not let u pursue this sanguinary encounter in all it horrible detail .
Let u also remember -- otherwise the scene would be too painful for an elegant mind to contemplate with entertainment -- that the Giant be in excellent training , and think no more of a few wound than you do of a crack on the leg from a cricket-ball .
He well deserve the title give him by the Fancy , of `` The Giant who do not Know when he have have Enough . ''
* * * * * The contest be over ; Dick be rest on a rock .
The list be strewn with interesting but imperfect fragment of the Giant , when a set of double teeth of enormous size fly up out of the ground and caught Ricardo by the throat !
In vain he strive to separate the teeth , when the crow , stoop from the heaven , become the Princess Jaqueline , and change Dick into a wren -- a tiny bird , so small that he easily fly out of the jaw of the Giant and wing his way to a tree , whence he watch the scene .
But the poor Princess Jaqueline !
To perform the feat of change Dick into a bird she have , of course , accord to all the law of magic , to resume her own natural form !
There she stand , a beautiful , tremble maiden , her hand cross on her bosom , entirely at the mercy of the Giant !
No sooner have Dick escape than the monster begin to collect himself ; and before Jaqueline could muster strength to run away or summon to her aid the lesson of the Fairy Paribanou , the Giant who never Knew when he have Enough be himself again .
A boy might have climb up a tree -LRB- for giant be no tree-climbers , any more than the grizzly bear -RRB- , but Jaqueline could not climb .
She merely stand , pale and trembling .
She have save Dick , but at an enormous sacrifice , for the sword and the Seven - league Boots be lie on the trampled grass .
He have not bring the Cap of Darkness , and , in the shape of a wren , of course he could not carry away the other article .
Dick be rescue , that be all , and the Princess Jaqueline have sacrifice herself to her love for him .
The Giant pick himself up and pull himself together , a we say , and then approach Jaqueline in a very civil way , for a person of his breeding , head in hand .
`` Let me introduce myself , '' he say , and mention his name and title .
`` May I ask what you be do here , and how you come ? ''
-LCB- `` Let me introduce myself , '' he say : p154.jpg -RCB- Poor Jaqueline throw herself at his foot , and murmur a short and not very intelligible account of herself .
`` I do n't understand , '' say the Giant , replace his head on his shoulder .
`` What to do with you , I 'm sure I do n't know . '
Please do n't eat me , ' do you say ?
Why , what do you take me for ?
I 'm not in that line at all ; low , I call it ! ''
Jaqueline be somewhat comfort at these word , drop out of the Giant 's lip from a considerable height .
`` But they call you ` The Giant who do not Know when he have have Enough , ' '' say Jaqueline .
`` And proud of the title : not enough of fighting .
Of punishment I be a glutton , or so my friend be pleased to say .
A brace of ox , a drove of sheep or two , be enough for me , '' the Giant go on complacently , but forget to mention that the sheep and the ox be the property of other people .
`` Where be I to put you till your friend come and pay your ransom ? ''
the Giant ask again , and star at Jaqueline in a perplexed way .
`` I ca n't take you home with me , that be out of the question .
I have a little woman of my own , and she 's not very fond of other lady ; especially , she would like to poison them that have good look . ''
Now Jaqueline saw that the Giant , big a he be , courageous too , be afraid of his wife !
`` I 'll tell you what I 'll do ; I 'll hand you over to a neighbour of mine , who be a bachelor . ''
`` A bachelor giant ; would that be quite proper ? ''
say Jaqueline , try to humour him .
`` He 's not a giant , bless you ; he 's a queer fellow , it be not easy to say what he be .
He 's the Earthquaker , him a shake the earth now and then , and bring the house about people 's ear . ''
Jaqueline fairly scream at hear this awful news .
`` Hush !
be quiet , do ! ''
say the Giant .
`` You 'll bring out my little woman , and she be not easy to satisfy with explanation when she find me converse with a lady unbeknown to her .
The Earthquaker wo n't do you any harm ; it 's only for safe keep I 'll put you with him .
Why , he do n't waken , not once in fifty year .
He 's quite the dormouse .
Turns on his bed now and then , and thing upstairs get upset , more or less ; but , a a rule , a child could play with him .
Come on ! ''
Then , take Jaqueline up on one hand , on which she sit a if on a chair , he cross a few range of mountain in as many stride .
In front be one tall blue hill , with a flattened peak , and a they draw near the princess felt a curious kind of wind come round her and round her .
You have hear of whirlpool in water ; well , this be just like a whirlpool of air .
Even the Giant himself could hardly keep his leg against it ; then he toss Jaqueline up , and the airy whirlpool seize her and carry her , a if on a tide of water , always round and round in narrow circle , till she be suck down into the hollow hill .
Even a she go , she seem to remember the hill , a if she have dream about it , and the shape and colour of the country .
But presently she sink softly on to a couch , in a beautifully-lighted rocky hall .
All around her the floor be of white and red marble , but on one side it seem to end in black nothing .
Jaqueline , after a few moment , recover her sens fully , and change herself into an eagle , try to fly up and out .
But as soon a she be in the funnel , the whirlpool of air always suck down and down , be too strong for her wing .
She be a prisoner in this great gleam hall , end in black nothingness .
So she resume her usual form , and walk to the edge of the darkness , find that it be not empty air , but something black , soft , and strong -- something living .
It have no form or shape , or none that she could make out ; but it pulse with a heart .
Jaqueline place her foot on this curious thing , when a voice come , like thunder hear through a feather-bed : `` Not near time to get up yet ! ''
and then there be a snore , and the great hall rock like a ship at sea .
It be the Earthquaker !
The habit of this monstrous animal be very little known , a , of course , he never come above ground , or at least very seldom , when he make track like a dry river-bed across country .
We be certain that there be Earthquakers , otherwise how can we account for earthquake ?
But how to tackle an Earthquaker , how to get at him , and what to do with him when you have get at him , be question which might puzzle even King Prigio .
It be not easy to have the good of an enchantress like Jaqueline and a prince like Ricardo .
In no ordinary circumstance could they have be baffle and defeat ; but now it must be admit that they be in a very try and alarm situation , especially the princess .
The bad of it be , that a Jaqueline sit and think and think , she begin to remember that she be back in her own country .
The hill be those she use to see from her father 's palace windows when she be a child .
And she remember with horror that once a year her people use to send a beautiful girl to the Earthquaker , by way of keep him quiet , a you shall hear presently .
And now she hear light footstep and a sound of weep , and lo !
a great troop of pretty girl pass , sweep in and out of the hall in a kind of procession , and look unhappy and lose .
Jaqueline ran to them .
`` Where be I ?
who be you ? ''
she cry , in the language of her own country , which come back to her on a sudden .
`` We be nurse of the Earthquaker , '' they say .
`` Our duty be to sing him asleep , and every year he must have a new song ; and every year a new maiden must be send down from earth , with a new sleepy song she have learn from the priest of Manoa , the City of the Sun .
Are you the new singer ? ''
`` No , I 'm not , '' say Jaqueline .
`` I do n't know the priest of Manoa ; I do n't know any new sleepy song .
I only want to find the way out . ''
`` There be no way , or we should have find it , '' say one of the maiden ; `` and , if you be the wrong girl , by the day after to-morrow they must send the right one , otherwise the Earthquaker will waken , and shake the world , and destroy Manoa , the City of the Sun . ''
Then they all weep softly in the stillness .
`` Can we get anything to eat here ? ''
ask poor Jaqueline , at last .
She be begin to be very hungry , and however alarm she might be , she felt that dinner would not be unwelcome .
The tallest of the maiden clap her hand , and immediately a long table be spread by unseen sprite with meringue and cold chicken , and several sort of delicious ice .
We shall desert Jaqueline , who be rather less alarm when she find that she be not to be starve , at all event , and return to Prince Ricardo , whom we leave flutter about a a little golden-crested wren .
He follow the Giant and Jaqueline into the whirlpool of air as far a he dare , and when he saw her vanish down the cone of the hill , he fly straight back to Pantouflia .
CHAPTER IX .
Prigio have an Idea .
-LCB- Ricardo and Semiramis : p165.jpg -RCB- A weary and way-worn little bird be Prince Ricardo when he flutter into the royal study window , in the palace of Pantouflia .
The king be out at a council meeting ; know that Ricardo have the right thing , all in good order , he be not in the least anxious about him .
The king be out , but Semiramis be in -- Semiramis , the great grey cat , sit on a big book on the top of the library step .
Now Semiramis be very fond of bird , and no sooner do Ricardo enter and flutter on to a table than Semiramis gather herself together and make one fell spring at him .
She just catch his tail feather .
In all his adventure the prince have never be in great danger .
He escape , but no more , and go fly round the ceiling , look for a safe place .
Finally he perch on a chandelier that hung from the roof .
Here he be safe ; and so weary be he , that he put his head under his wing and fell fast asleep .
He be awaken by the return of the king , who throw himself on a sofa and exclaim : `` Oh , that Prime Minister !
his dulness be as heavy a lead ; much heavy , in fact ! ''
Then his Majesty light a cigar and take up a volume ; he certainly be a sad bookworm .
Dick now begin to fly about the room , brush the king 's face and try to attract his notice .
`` Poor little thing ! ''
say his Majesty .
And Dick alight , and nestle in his breast .
On see this , Semiramis begin to growl , a cat do when they be angry , and slowly approach his Majesty .
`` Get out , Semiramis ! ''
say the king ; and lift her by the neck , he put her out of the room and shut the door , at which she remain scratch and mewing .
Dick now creep out of the royal waistcoat , fly to the king 's ear , twitter , point out of the window with one claw , and , lie down on his back , pretend to be dead .
Then he get up again , twitter afresh , point to the Wishing Cap , and , finally , convince the king that this be no common fowl .
`` An enchanted prince or princess , '' say Prigio , `` such a I have often read of .
Who can it be ?
Not Jaqueline ; she could change herself back in a moment .
By the way , where be Jaqueline ? ''
He ring the bell , and ask the servant to look for the princess .
Semiramis try to come in , but be catch and shut up downstairs .
After do this , the man reply that her Royal Highness have not be in the palace all day .
The king rush to the crystal ball , look all the world over ; but no princess !
He become very nervous , and at that moment Dick light on the crystal ball , and put his claw on the very hill where Jaqueline have disappear .
Then he cock his little eye at the king .
`` Nay , she be somewhere in the unknown centre of South America , '' say his Majesty ; `` somewhere behind Mount Roraima , where nobody have ever be .
I must look into this . ''
Then he put on the Wishing Cap , and wish that the bird would assume his natural shape if he be under enchantment , a there seem too good reason to believe .
Instantly Dick stand before him .
-LCB- Instantly Dick stand before him : p170.jpg -RCB- `` Ricardo ! ''
cry the king in horror ; `` and in this disguise !
Where have you be ?
What have you do with Jaqueline ?
Where be the Seven-league Boots ?
Where be the Sword of Sharpness ?
Speak !
Get up ! ''
for Dick be kneel and weep bitterly at the royal foot .
`` All lose ! ''
say Dick .
`` Poor Jaqueline !
she be the best girl , and the prettiest , and the kindest .
And the Earthquaker 's get her , and the Giant 's get the other thing , '' Dick end , cry bitterly .
`` Calm yourself , Ricardo , '' say his Majesty , very pale , but calm and determine .
`` Here , take a glass of port , and explain how all this happen . ''
Dick drink the wine , and then he tell his miserable story .
`` You may well sob !
Why do n't you use the Cap of Darkness ?
Mere conceit !
But there be no use in cry over spilt milk .
The thing be , to rescue Jaqueline .
And what be we to say to your mother ? ''
`` That 's the bad of it all , '' say Dick .
`` Mother will break her heart . ''
`` I must see her at once , '' say the king , `` and break it to her . ''
This be a terrible task ; but the queen have such just confidence in her Prigio that she soon dry her tear , remark that Heaven would not desert Jaqueline , and that the king would find a way out of the trouble .
His Majesty retire to his study , put his head in his hand , and think and think .
`` The thing be , of course , '' he say , `` to destroy the Earthquaker before he waken ; but how ?
What can kill such a monster ?
Prodding him with the sword would only stir him up and make him more vicious .
And I know of no other beast we can set against him , a I do with the Fire-beast and the Ice-beast , when I be young .
Oh , for an idea ! ''
Then his mind , somehow , go back to the Council and the ponderous stupidity of the Prime Minister .
`` Heavier than lead , '' say the king .
`` By George !
I have a plan .
If I could get to the place where they keep the Stupidity , I could carry away enough of it to flatten out the Earthquaker . ''
Then he remember how , in an old Italian poem , he have read about all the strange lumber-room of odd thing which be keep in the moon .
That be the advantage of reading : Knowledge be Power ; and you mostly get knowledge that be really worth have out of good old book which people do not usually read .
`` If the Stupidity be keep in stock , up in the moon , and come from there , fall naturally down on the earth in small quantity , I might obtain enough for my purpose , '' think King Prigio .
`` But -- how to get to the moon ?
There be difficulty about that . ''
But difficulty only sharpen the ingenuity of this admirable king .
`` The other fellow have a Flying Horse , '' say he .
By `` the other fellow '' King Prigio mean an Italian knight , Astolfo , who , in old time , visit the moon , and there find and bring back the common sense of his friend , Orlando , a you may read in the poem of Ariosto .
`` Now , '' reason King Prigio , `` if there be a Flying Horse at all , he be in the stable of the King of Delhi .
I must look into this . ''
Taking the magic spy-glass , the king survey the world from China to Peru , and , sure enough , there be the famous Flying Horse in the king 's stable at Delhi .
Hastily the king thrust his foot into the Shoes of Swiftness -- so hastily , indeed , that , a the poet say , he `` madly cram a left-hand foot into a right-hand shoe . ''
But this , many people think , be a sign of good luck ; so he put the shoe on the proper foot , and in a few minute be in the presence of the Great Mogul .
The monarch receive him with some surprise , but with stately kindness , and listen to Prigio while he explain what he want .
`` I be only too happy to assist so adventurous a prince , '' remark the Great Mogul .
`` This be like old time !
Every horse in my stable be at your service , but , a you say , only the Flying Horse be of any use to you in this expedition . ''
He clap his hand , the Grand Vizier appear , and the king give order to have the Flying Horse saddle at once .
He then present King Prigio with a large diamond , and come down into the courtyard to see him mount .
`` He 's very fresh , '' say the groom who hold the bridle ; `` have not be out of the stable for three hundred year ! ''
Prigio sprang into the saddle among the salaam of the dusky multitude , and all the lady of the seraglio wave their scented handkerchief out of the window .
The king , a he have be instruct , turn a knob of gold in the saddle of the Flying Horse , then kiss his hand to the lady , and , give the steed his head , cry , in excellent Persian : `` To the moon ! ''
Up flew the horse with an easy action , and the king 's head nearly swam with the swiftness of the flight .
Soon the earth below him be no big than a top , spin on it own axis -LRB- see Geography book for this -RRB- , and , a night fell , earth be only a great red moon .
-LCB- King Prigio on the Flying Horse : p178.jpg -RCB- Through the dark rode King Prigio , into the silver dawn of the moon .
All now become clear and silvery ; the coast of the moon come into sight , with white sea break on them ; and at last the king reach the silver wall , and the gate of opal .
Before the gate stand two beautiful lady .
One be fair , with yellow lock , the colour of the harvest moon .
She have a crown of a golden snake and white water-lilies , and her dress now shine white , now red , now golden ; and in her hand be the golden pitcher that shed the dew , and a golden wand .
The other lady be as dark a night -- dark eye , dark hair ; her crown be of poppy .
She hold the ebony Wand of Sleep .
Her dress be of the deep blue , sow with star .
The king know that they be the maiden of the bright and the dark side of the moon -- of the side you see , and of the side that no one have ever see , except King Prigio .
He stop the Flying Horse by turn the other knob in the saddle , alight , and bow very low to each of the lady .
`` Daring mortal !
what make you here ? ''
they ask .
And then the king tell them about Jaqueline and the Earthquaker , and how he need a great weight of Stupidity to flatten him out with .
The lady hear him in silence , and then they say : `` Follow u , '' and they fly lightly beside the Flying Horse till they have cross all the bright side of the moon , above the silver palace and silver sea , and reach the summit of the Mountains of the Moon which separate the bright from the dark side .
`` Here I may go no far , '' say the bright lady ; `` and beyond , a you see , all be darkness and heavy sleep . ''
Then she touch Prigio with her golden wand with twisted serpent , and he become luminous , light ray out from him ; and the dark lady , too , shone like silver in the night : and on they fly , over black rock and black river , till they reach a huge mountain , like a mountain of coal , many thousand foot high , for it head be lose in the blackness of darkness .
The dark Moon-Lady strike the rock with her ebony wand , and say , `` Open ! ''
and the cliff open like a door , and they be within the mountain .
`` Here , '' say the dark lady , `` be the storehouse of all the Stupidity ; hence it descend in shower like Stardust on the earth whenever this mountain , which be a volcano , be in eruption .
Only a little of the Stupidity reach the earth , and that only in invisible dust ; yet you know how weighty it be , even in that form . ''
`` Indeed , madam , '' say the king , `` no one know it good than I do . ''
`` Then make your choice of the best sort of Stupidity for your purpose , '' say the dark lady .
And in the light which flow from their body King Prigio look round at the various kind of Solid Stupidity .
There it all lay in mass -- the Stupidity of bad Sermons , of ignorant reviewer , of bad poem , of bad speech , of dreary novel , of foolish statesman , of ignorant mob , of fine lady , of idle , naughty boy and girl ; and the king examine them all , and all be very , very heavy .
But when he come to the Stupidity of the Learned -- of dull , blind writer on Shakspeare , and Homer , and the Bible -- then King Prigio saw that he have find the sort he want , and that a very little of it would go a long way .
He never could have get it on the saddle of the Flying Horse if the dark lady have not touch it with her ebony wand , and make it light to carry till it be want for his purpose .
When he need it for use , he be to utter a certain spell , which she teach him , and then the lump would recover it natural weight .
So he easily put a great block on his saddle-bow , and he and the dark lady fly back till they reach the crest of the Mountains of the Moon .
There she touch him with her ebony wand , and the silver light which the bright lady have shed on him die from his face and his body , and he become like other men .
`` You see your way ? ''
say the dark lady , point to the bright moon of earth , shin far off in the heaven .
Then he kneel down and thank her , and she murmur strange word of bless which he do not understand ; but her face be grave and kind , and he think of Queen Rosalind , his wife .
Then he jump on the Flying Horse , gallop down and down , till he reach his palace gate ; call for Ricardo , set him behind him on the saddle , and away they ride , above land and wide sea , till they saw the crest of the hollow hill , where Jaqueline be with the Earthquaker .
Beyond it they mark the glittering spire and tower of Manoa , the City of the Sun ; and `` Thither , '' say King Prigio , who have be explain how matter stand , to Ricardo , `` we must ride , for I believe they stand in great need of our assistance . ''
`` Had we not well go to Jaqueline first , sir ? ''
say Ricardo .
`` No , '' say the king ; `` I think mine be the best plan .
Manoa , whose golden spire and pinnacle be shin below u , be the City of the Sun , which Sir Walter Raleigh and the Spaniards could never find , so that men have doubt of it existence .
We be need there , to judge by that angry crowd in the marketplace .
How they howl ! ''
CHAPTER X .
The End .
-LCB- Man with rock : p186.jpg -RCB- It be on a strange sight that the king and Ricardo look down from the Flying Horse .
Beneath them lay the City of Manoa , fill with it golden battlement and temples a hollow of the mountain .
Here be palace all carve over with face of men and beast , and with twisted pattern of serpent .
The city wall be build of huge square stone , and among the grove tower pyramid , on which the people do service to their god .
From every temple top come the roar of beaten drum , great drum of serpentskin .
But , in the centre of the chief square of the town , be gather a wild crowd of men in shin copper armour and helmet of gold and glitter dress of feather .
Among them run about priest with hideous mask , cry them on to besiege and break down the royal palace .
From the battlement of the palace the king 's guardsman be fire arrow and throw spear .
The mob shot arrows back , some of them tip with lighted straw , to burn the palace down .
But , in the very centre of the square , be a clear space of ground , on which fell the shadow of a tall column of red stone , all carve with serpent and face of god .
Beside it stand a figure horrible to see : a man clothe in serpent skin , whose face be the grin face of a skull ; but the skull be shin black and red in patch , and a long white beard flow from beneath it .
This man , mount on a kind of altar of red stone , wave his hand and yell , and seem to point to the shadow of the column which fell across the square .
The people be so furious and so eager that they do not , at first , notice King Prigio a he slowly descend .
But at last the eye within the skull look up and saw him , and then the man give a great cry , rent his glitter dress of serpentskin , and hold up his hand .
Then all the multitude look up , and see the Flying Horse , let their weapon fall ; and the man of the skull tear it from his face , and kneel before King Prigio , with his head in the dust .
`` Thou hast come , oh , Pachacamac , a be foretell in the prophecy of the Cord of the Venerable Knots !
Thou hast come , but behold the shadow of the stone !
Thou art too late , oh Lord of the Earth and the Sea ! ''
Then he point to the shadow , which , naturally , be grow short , a the sun draw near mid-day .
He speak in the language of the ancient Incas of Peru , which of course Prigio know very well ; and he also know that Pachacamac be the god of that people .
`` I have come , '' Prigio say , with presence of mind , `` a it have be prophesy of old . ''
`` Riding on a beast that fly , '' say the old priest , `` even a the oracle declare .
Glory to Pachacamac , even though we die to-day ! ''
`` In what can I help my people ? ''
say Prigio .
`` Thou knowest ; why should we instruct thee ?
Thou knowest that on midsummer-day , every year , before the shadow shrink back to the base of the huaca -LCB- 190 -RCB- of Manoa , we must offer a maiden to lull the Earthquaker with a new song .
Lo , now the shadow shrink to the foot of the huaca , and the maid be not offer !
For the lot fell on the daughter of thy servant the Inca , and he refuse to give her up .
One daughter of his , he say , have be sacrifice to the sacred bird , the Cunturs : the bird be find slain on the hill-top , no man know how ; but the maiden vanish . ''
`` Why , it must have be Jaqueline .
I kill the bird , '' say Ricardo , in Pantouflian .
`` Silence , not a word ! ''
say the king , sternly .
`` And what make you bear arm against the Inca ? ''
he ask the old man .
`` We would slay him and her , '' answer the priest ; `` for , when the shadow shrink to the foot of the stone , the sun will shine straight down into the hollow hill of the Earthquaker , and he will waken and destroy Manoa and the Temples of the Sun . ''
`` Then wherefore would you slay them , when you must all perish ? ''
`` The people , oh Pachacamac , would have revenge before they die . ''
`` Oh , folly of men ! ''
say the king , solemnly ; then he cry : `` Lead me to the Inca ; this day you shall not perish .
Is it not predict in the Cord of the Venerable Knots that I shall slay this monster ? ''
`` Hasten , oh Pachacamac , for the shadow shorten ! ''
say the priest .
`` Lead me to the Inca , '' answer Prigio .
At this the people arise with a great shout , for they , too , have be kneel ; and , send a flag of truce before King Prigio , the priest lead him into the palace .
The ground be strew with body of the slain , and through them Prigio rode slowly into the courtyard , where the Inca be sit in the dust , weep and throw ash on his long hair and his golden raiment .
The king bid the priest remain without the palace gate ; then dismount , and , advance to the Inca , raise him and embrace him .
`` I come , a king to a king , '' he say .
`` My cousin , take courage ; your sorrow be end .
If I do not slay the Earthquaker , sacrifice me to your god . ''
`` The Prophecy be fulfil , '' say the Inca , and wept for joy .
`` Yet thou must hasten , for it draw near to noon . ''
Then Prigio go up to the golden battlement , and say no word , wave his hand .
In a moment the square be empty , for the people rush to give thanks in the temple .
`` Wait my come , my cousin , '' say Prigio to the Inca ; `` I shall bring you back the daughter that be lose , when I have slay your enemy . ''
The Inca would have kneel at his foot ; but the king raise him , and bid him prepare such a feast a have never be see in Manoa .
`` The lost be find to-day , '' he say ; `` be you ready to welcome them . ''
Then , mount the Flying Horse , with Dick beside him , he rise towards the peak of the hill where the Earthquaker have his home .
Already the ground be begin to tremble ; the Earthquaker be stir in his sleep , for the maiden of the new song have not be send to him , and the year end at noon , and then he would rise and ruin Manoa .
The sun be approach mid-day , and Prigio put spur to the Flying Horse .
Ten minute more , and the sun would look straight down the crater of the hollow hill , and the Earthquaker would arouse himself when the light and the heat fell on his body .
Already the light of the sun shone slant half-way down the hollow cone a the whirlpool of air catch the Flying Horse , and draw him swiftly down and down to the shadowy hall .
There knelt and weep the nurse of the Earthquaker on the marble floor ; but Jaqueline stand a little apart , very pale , but not weep .
Ricardo have leap off before the horse touch the ground , and rush to Jaqueline , and embrace her in his arm ; and , oh !
how glad she be to see him , so that she quite forget her danger and laugh for joy .
`` Oh !
you have come , you have come ; I know you would come ! ''
she cry .
Then King Prigio advance , the mighty weight in his hand , to the verge of the dreadful gulf of the Earthquaker .
The dim wall grow radiant ; a long slant arm of yellow light touch the black body of the Earthquaker , and a thrill go through him , and shake the world , so that , far away , the bell ring in Pantouflia .
A moment more , and he would waken in his strength ; and once awake , he would shatter the city wall and ruin Manoa .
Even now a great mass of rock fell from the roof deep down in the secret cave , and break into fly fragment , and all the echo roar and rang .
King Prigio stand with the mighty mass poise in his hand .
`` Die ! ''
he cry ; and he utter the word of power , the magic spell that the dark Moon Lady have teach him .
Then all it invincible natural weight come into the mass which the king hold , and down it shot full on the body of the Earthquaker ; and where that have be be nothing but a vast abyss , silent , empty , and blank , and bottomless .
Far , far below , thousand of mile below , in the very centre of the earth , lay the dead Earthquaker , crush flat a a sheet of paper , and the sun of midsummer-day shone straight down on the dreadful chasm , and could not waken him any more for ever .
The king draw a long breath .
`` Stupidity have save the world , '' he say ; and , with only strength to draw back one step from the abyss , he fell down , hide his face in his hand .
But Jaqueline 's arm be round his neck , and the maiden bring him water from an ice-cold spring ; and soon King Prigio be himself again , and ready for anything .
But afterwards he use to say that the moment when the Earthquaker stir be the most dreadful in his life .
Now , in Manoa , where all the firm foundation of the city have tremble once , when the sun just touch the Earthquaker , the people , see that the shadow of the sacred column have creep to it foot , and yet Manoa stand firm again , and the Temple of the Sun be not overthrow , raise such a cry that it echo even through the hall within the hollow hill .
Who shall describe the joy of the maiden , and how often Jaqueline and Ricardo kiss each other ?
`` You have save me ! ''
she cry to the king , throw her arm round him again .
`` You have save Manoa ! ''
`` And you have save the Hope of Pantouflia , not once or twice , '' say his Majesty , grandly .
And he tell Dick how much he have owe to Jaqueline , in the fight with the Yellow Dwarf , and the fight with the Giant , for he do not think it necessary to mention the affair at Rome .
Then Dick kiss Jaqueline again , and all the maiden kiss each other , and they quite cry for gladness .
`` But we keep his Majesty the Inca waiting , '' say Prigio .
`` Punctuality be the courtesy of king .
You lady will excuse me , I be sure , if I remove first from the dungeon her whom we call the Princess Jaqueline .
The Inca , her father , have a claim on u to this preference . ''
Then place Jaqueline on the saddle , and leave Dick to comfort the other young lady , who be still rather nervous , the king fly off to Manoa , for the wind , of course , die with the death of the Earthquaker .
I can not tell you the delight of all Manoa , and of the Inca , when they saw the Flying Horse returning , and recognise their long-lost princess , who rush into the arm of her father .
They beat the serpent drum , for they have no bell , on the top of the temple .
They go quite mad with delight : enemy kiss in the street ; and all the parent , without exception , allow all the young people who happen to be in love to be marry that very day .
Then Prigio bring back all the maiden , one after the other , and Dick last ; and he fell at the Inca 's foot , and request leave to marry Jaqueline .
But , before that could be do , King Prigio , mount on the palace balcony , make a long but very lucid speech to the assembled people .
He begin by explain that he be not their God , Pachacamac , but king of a powerful country of which they have never hear before , a they live very much withdrawn in an unknown region of the world .
Then he point out , in the most considerate manner , that their religion be not all he could wish , otherwise they would never sacrifice young lady to wild bird and Earthquakers .
He next sketch out the merit of his own creed , that of the Lutheran Church ; and the Inca straightway observe that he propose to establish it in Manoa at once .
Some objection be raise by the old priest in the skull mask ; but when the Inca promise to make him an archbishop , and to continue all his revenue , the priest admit that he be perfectly satisfy ; and the general public cheer and wave their hat with emotion .
It be arrange that the Inca , with his other daughter , should visit Pantouflia immediately , both because he could not bear to leave Jaqueline , and also because there be a few point on which he felt that he still need information .
The Government be leave in the hand of the archbishop , who begin at once by burn his skull mask -LRB- you may see one like it in the British Museum , in the Mexican room -RRB- , and by let loose all the bird and beast which the Manoans use to worship .
So all the young people be marry in the Golden Temple of the Sun , and all the Earthquaker 's nurse who be under thirty be wed to the young men who have be fond of them before they be send into the hollow hill .
These young men have never care for any one else .
Everybody wear bridal favour , all the unengaged young lady act a bridesmaid , and such a throwing of rice and old shoe have very seldom be witness .
As for the happy royal pair , with their father , and the other princess -LRB- who do not happen to be engage -RRB- , back they fly to Pantouflia .
And there be Queen Rosalind wait at the palace gate , and cry and laugh with pleasure when she hear that the wish of her heart be fulfil , and Jaqueline be to be her daughter .
`` And , a for the Earthquaker , '' say her Majesty , `` I never be really anxious in the least , for I know no beast in the world be a match for you , my dear . ''
So , just to make everything orderly and correct , Ricardo and Jaqueline be marry over again , in the Cathedral of Pantouflia .
The marriage present come in afterwards , of course , and among them , what do you think ?
Why , the Seven-League Boots and the Sword of Sharpness , with a very polite note of extraordinary size : `` The Giant who do not Know when he have have Enough present his hearty congratulation to the royal pair , and beg to lay at their foot the Seven-league Boots -LRB- they not fit me -RRB- and the Sword which Prince Ricardo leave in the Giant 's keep recently .
The Giant hop no bad blood ; and I be , `` Yours very faithfully , `` THE G. , & c. `` P.S . -- His little woman send her congratulation . ''
So you see the Giant be not such a bad sort of fellow after all , and Prince Ricardo always admit that he never meet a foe more gallant and good-humoured .
With such a clever wife , Ricardo easily pass all his examination ; and his little son , Prince Prigio -LRB- name after his august grandfather -RRB- , never have to cry , `` Mamma , mamma , father 's pluck again . ''
So they live happily in a happy country , occasionally visit Manoa ; and a they possess the magical Water o Life from the Fountain of Lions , I do not believe that any of them ever die at all , but that Prigio be still King of Pantouflia .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Blue_Fairy_Book.txt.out
THE BRONZE RING Once upon a time in a certain country there live a king whose palace be surround by a spacious garden .
But , though the gardener be many and the soil be good , this garden yield neither flower nor fruit , not even grass or shady tree .
The King be in despair about it , when a wise old man say to him : `` Your gardener do not understand their business : but what can you expect of men whose father be cobbler and carpenter ?
How should they have learn to cultivate your garden ? ''
`` You be quite right , '' cry the King .
`` Therefore , '' continue the old man , `` you should send for a gardener whose father and grandfather have be gardener before him , and very soon your garden will be full of green grass and gay flower , and you will enjoy it delicious fruit . ''
So the King send messenger to every town , village , and hamlet in his dominion , to look for a gardener whose forefather have be gardener also , and after forty day one be find .
`` Come with u and be gardener to the King , '' they say to him .
`` How can I go to the King , '' say the gardener , `` a poor wretch like me ? ''
`` That be of no consequence , '' they answer .
`` Here be new clothes for you and your family . ''
`` But I owe money to several people . ''
`` We will pay your debt , '' they say .
So the gardener allow himself to be persuade , and go away with the messenger , take his wife and his son with him ; and the King , delight to have find a real gardener , entrust him with the care of his garden .
The man find no difficulty in make the royal garden produce flower and fruit , and at the end of a year the park be not like the same place , and the King shower gift upon his new servant .
The gardener , a you have hear already , have a son , who be a very handsome young man , with most agreeable manner , and every day he carry the best fruit of the garden to the King , and all the pretty flower to his daughter .
Now this princess be wonderfully pretty and be just sixteen year old , and the King be begin to think it be time that she should be marry .
`` My dear child , '' say he , `` you be of an age to take a husband , therefore I be think of marry you to the son of my prime minister .
`` Father , '' reply the Princess , `` I will never marry the son of the minister . ''
`` Why not ? ''
ask the King .
`` Because I love the gardener 's son , '' answer the Princess .
On hear this the King be at first very angry , and then he weep and sigh , and declare that such a husband be not worthy of his daughter ; but the young Princess be not to be turn from her resolution to marry the gardener 's son .
Then the King consult his minister .
`` This be what you must do , '' they say .
`` To get rid of the gardener you must send both suitor to a very distant country , and the one who return first shall marry your daughter . ''
The King follow this advice , and the minister 's son be present with a splendid horse and a purse full of gold piece , while the gardener 's son have only an old lame horse and a purse full of copper money , and every one thought he would never come back from his journey .
The day before they start the Princess meet her lover and say to him : `` Be brave , and remember always that I love you .
Take this purse full of jewel and make the best use you can of them for love of me , and come back quickly and demand my hand . ''
The two suitor leave the town together , but the minister 's son go off at a gallop on his good horse , and very soon be lose to sight behind the most distant hill .
He travel on for some day , and presently reach a fountain beside which an old woman all in rag sit upon a stone .
`` Good-day to you , young traveler , '' say she .
But the minister 's son make no reply .
`` Have pity upon me , traveler , '' she say again .
`` I be die of hunger , a you see , and three day have I be here and no one have give me anything . ''
`` Let me alone , old witch , '' cry the young man ; `` I can do nothing for you , '' and so say he go on his way .
That same even the gardener 's son ride up to the fountain upon his lame gray horse .
`` Good-day to you , young traveler , '' say the beggar-woman .
`` Good-day , good woman , '' answer he .
`` Young traveler , have pity upon me . ''
`` Take my purse , good woman , '' say he , `` and mount behind me , for your leg ca n't be very strong . ''
The old woman do n't wait to be ask twice , but mount behind him , and in this style they reach the chief city of a powerful kingdom .
The minister 's son be lodge in a grand inn , the gardener 's son and the old woman dismount at the inn for beggar .
The next day the gardener 's son hear a great noise in the street , and the King 's herald pass , blow all kind of instrument , and cry : `` The King , our master , be old and infirm .
He will give a great reward to whoever will cure him and give him back the strength of his youth . ''
Then the old beggar-woman say to her benefactor : `` This be what you must do to obtain the reward which the King promise .
Go out of the town by the south gate , and there you will find three little dog of different color ; the first will be white , the second black , the third red .
You must kill them and then burn them separately , and gather up the ash .
Put the ash of each dog into a bag of it own color , then go before the door of the palace and cry out , ' A celebrated physician have come from Janina in Albania .
He alone can cure the King and give him back the strength of his youth . '
The King 's physician will say , This be an impostor , and not a learned man , ' and they will make all sort of difficulty , but you will overcome them all at last , and will present yourself before the sick King .
You must then demand a much wood a three mule can carry , and a great cauldron , and must shut yourself up in a room with the Sultan , and when the cauldron boil you must throw him into it , and there leave him until his flesh be completely separate from his bone .
Then arrange the bone in their proper place , and throw over them the ash out of the three bag .
The King will come back to life , and will be just a he be when he be twenty year old .
For your reward you must demand the bronze ring which have the power to grant you everything you desire .
Go , my son , and do not forget any of my instruction . ''
The young man follow the old beggar-woman 's direction .
On go out of the town he find the white , red , and black dog , and kill and burn them , gather the ash in three bag .
Then he run to the palace and cry : `` A celebrated physician have just come from Janina in Albania .
He alone can cure the King and give him back the strength of his youth . ''
The King 's physician at first laugh at the unknown wayfarer , but the Sultan order that the stranger should be admit .
They bring the cauldron and the load of wood , and very soon the King be boil away .
Toward mid-day the gardener 's son arrange the bone in their place , and he have hardly scatter the ash over them before the old King revive , to find himself once more young and hearty .
`` How can I reward you , my benefactor ? ''
he cry .
`` Will you take half my treasure ? ''
`` No , '' say the gardener 's son .
`` My daughter 's hand ? '' ''
No . ''
`` Take half my kingdom . ''
`` No .
Give me only the bronze ring which can instantly grant me anything I wish for . ''
`` Alas ! ''
say the King , `` I set great store by that marvelous ring ; nevertheless , you shall have it . ''
And he give it to him .
The gardener 's son go back to say good-by to the old beggar-woman ; then he say to the bronze ring : `` Prepare a splendid ship in which I may continue my journey .
Let the hull be of fine gold , the mast of silver , the sail of brocade ; let the crew consist of twelve young men of noble appearance , dress like king .
St. Nicholas will be at the helm .
As to the cargo , let it be diamond , ruby , emerald , and carbuncle . ''
And immediately a ship appear upon the sea which resemble in every particular the description give by the gardener 's son , and , step on board , he continue his journey .
Presently he arrive at a great town and establish himself in a wonderful palace .
After several day he meet his rival , the minister 's son , who have spend all his money and be reduce to the disagreeable employment of a carrier of dust and rubbish .
The gardener 's son say to him : `` What be your name , what be your family , and from what country do you come ? ''
`` I be the son of the prime minister of a great nation , and yet see what a degrade occupation I be reduce to . ''
`` Listen to me ; though I do n't know anything more about you , I be willing to help you .
I will give you a ship to take you back to your own country upon one condition . ''
`` Whatever it may be , I accept it willingly . ''
`` Follow me to my palace . ''
The minister 's son follow the rich stranger , whom he have not recognize .
When they reach the palace the gardener 's son make a sign to his slave , who completely undress the new-comer .
`` Make this ring red-hot , '' command the master , `` and mark the man with it upon his back . ''
The slave obey him .
`` Now , young man , '' say the rich stranger , `` I be go to give you a vessel which will take you back to your own country . ''
And , go out , he take the bronze ring and say : `` Bronze ring , obey thy master .
Prepare me a ship of which the half-rotten timber shall be paint black , let the sail be in rag , and the sailor infirm and sickly .
One shall have lose a leg , another an arm , the third shall be a hunchback , another lame or club-footed or blind , and most of them shall be ugly and cover with scar .
Go , and let my order be execute . ''
The minister 's son embark in this old vessel , and thanks to favorable wind , at length reach his own country .
In spite of the pitiable condition in which he return they receive him joyfully .
`` I be the first to come back , '' say he to the King ; now fulfil your promise , and give me the princess in marriage .
So they at once begin to prepare for the wedding festivity .
As to the poor princess , she be sorrowful and angry enough about it .
The next morning , at daybreak , a wonderful ship with every sail set come to anchor before the town .
The King happen at that moment to be at the palace window .
`` What strange ship be this , '' he cry , `` that have a golden hull , silver mast , and silken sail , and who be the young men like prince who man it ?
And do I not see St. Nicholas at the helm ?
Go at once and invite the captain of the ship to come to the palace . ''
His servant obey him , and very soon in come an enchantingly handsome young prince , dress in rich silk , ornament with pearl and diamond .
`` Young man , '' say the King , `` you be welcome , whoever you may be .
Do me the favor to be my guest as long a you remain in my capital . ''
`` Many thanks , sire , '' reply the captain , `` I accept your offer . ''
`` My daughter be about to be marry , '' say the King ; `` will you give her away ? ''
`` I shall be charm , sire . ''
Soon after come the Princess and her betrothed .
`` Why , how be this ? ''
cry the young captain ; `` would you marry this charm princess to such a man a that ? ''
`` But he be my prime minister 's son ! ''
`` What do that matter ?
I can not give your daughter away .
The man she be betroth to be one of my servant . ''
`` Your servant ? ''
`` Without doubt .
I meet him in a distant town reduce to carry away dust and rubbish from the house .
I have pity on him and engage him a one of my servant . ''
`` It be impossible ! ''
cry the King .
`` Do you wish me to prove what I say ?
This young man return in a vessel which I fit out for him , an unseaworthy ship with a black battered hull , and the sailor be infirm and cripple . ''
`` It be quite true , '' say the King .
`` It be false , '' cry the minister 's son .
`` I do not know this man ! ''
`` Sire , '' say the young captain , `` order your daughter 's betroth to be strip , and see if the mark of my ring be not brand upon his back . ''
The King be about to give this order , when the minister 's son , to save himself from such an indignity , admit that the story be true .
`` And now , sire , '' say the young captain , `` do you not recognize me ? ''
`` I recognize you , '' say the Princess ; `` you be the gardener 's son whom I have always love , and it be you I wish to marry . ''
`` Young man , you shall be my son-in-law , '' cry the King .
`` The marriage festivity be already begin , so you shall marry my daughter this very day . ''
And so that very day the gardener 's son marry the beautiful Princess .
Several month pass .
The young couple be as happy a the day be long , and the King be more and more pleased with himself for have secure such a son-in-law .
But , presently , the captain of the golden ship find it necessary to take a long voyage , and after embrace his wife tenderly he embark .
Now in the outskirt of the capital there live an old man , who have spend his life in study black art -- alchemy , astrology , magic , and enchantment .
This man find out that the gardener 's son have only succeed in marry the Princess by the help of the genius who obey the bronze ring .
`` I will have that ring , '' say he to himself .
So he go down to the sea-shore and catch some little red fish .
Really , they be quite wonderfully pretty .
Then he come back , and , pass before the Princess 's window , he begin to cry out : `` Who want some pretty little red fish ? ''
The Princess hear him , and send out one of her slave , who say to the old peddler : `` What will you take for your fish ? ''
`` A bronze ring . ''
`` A bronze ring , old simpleton !
And where shall I find one ? ''
`` Under the cushion in the Princess 's room . ''
The slave go back to her mistress .
`` The old madman will take neither gold nor silver , '' say she .
`` What do he want then ? ''
`` A bronze ring that be hide under a cushion . ''
`` Find the ring and give it to him , '' say the Princess .
And at last the slave find the bronze ring , which the captain of the golden ship have accidentally leave behind and carry it to the man , who make off with it instantly .
Hardly have he reach his own house when , take the ring , he say , `` Bronze ring , obey thy master .
I desire that the golden ship shall turn to black wood , and the crew to hideous negro ; that St. Nicholas shall leave the helm and that the only cargo shall be black cat . ''
And the genius of the bronze ring obey him .
Finding himself upon the sea in this miserable condition , the young captain understood that some one must have steal the bronze ring from him , and he lament his misfortune loudly ; but that do him no good .
`` Alas ! ''
he say to himself , `` whoever have take my ring have probably take my dear wife also .
What good will it do me to go back to my own country ? ''
And he sail about from island to island , and from shore to shore , believe that wherever he go everybody be laugh at him , and very soon his poverty be so great that he and his crew and the poor black cat have nothing to eat but herb and root .
After wander about a long time he reach an island inhabit by mouse .
The captain land upon the shore and begin to explore the country .
There be mouse everywhere , and nothing but mouse .
Some of the black cat have follow him , and , not have be feed for several day , they be fearfully hungry , and make terrible havoc among the mouse .
Then the queen of the mouse hold a council .
`` These cat will eat every one of u , '' she say , `` if the captain of the ship do not shut the ferocious animal up .
Let u send a deputation to him of the brave among u . ''
Several mouse offer themselves for this mission and set out to find the young captain .
`` Captain , '' say they , `` go away quickly from our island , or we shall perish , every mouse of u . ''
`` Willingly , '' reply the young captain , `` upon one condition .
That be that you shall first bring me back a bronze ring which some clever magician have steal from me .
If you do not do this I will land all my cat upon your island , and you shall be exterminate . ''
The mouse withdrew in great dismay .
`` What be to be do ? ''
say the Queen .
`` How can we find this bronze ring ? ''
She hold a new council , call in mouse from every quarter of the globe , but nobody know where the bronze ring be .
Suddenly three mouse arrive from a very distant country .
One be blind , the second lame , and the third have her ear crop .
`` Ho , ho , ho ! ''
say the new-comers .
`` We come from a far distant country . ''
`` Do you know where the bronze ring be which the genius obey ? ''
`` Ho , ho , ho !
we know ; an old sorcerer have take possession of it , and now he keep it in his pocket by day and in his mouth by night . ''
`` Go and take it from him , and come back as soon a possible . ''
So the three mouse make themselves a boat and set sail for the magician 's country .
When they reach the capital they land and run to the palace , leave only the blind mouse on the shore to take care of the boat .
Then they wait till it be night .
The wicked old man lay down in bed and put the bronze ring into his mouth , and very soon he be asleep .
`` Now , what shall we do ? ''
say the two little animal to each other .
The mouse with the cropped ear find a lamp full of oil and a bottle full of pepper .
So she dip her tail first in the oil and then in the pepper , and hold it to the sorcerer 's nose .
`` Atisha !
atisha ! ''
sneeze the old man , but he do not wake , and the shock make the bronze ring jump out of his mouth .
Quick a think the lame mouse snatch up the precious talisman and carry it off to the boat .
Imagine the despair of the magician when he awake and the bronze ring be nowhere to be find !
But by that time our three mouse have set sail with their prize .
A favoring breeze be carry them toward the island where the queen of the mouse be await them .
Naturally they begin to talk about the bronze ring .
`` Which of u deserve the most credit ? ''
they cry all at once .
`` I do , '' say the blind mouse , `` for without my watchfulness our boat would have drift away to the open sea . ''
`` No , indeed , '' cry the mouse with the cropped ear ; `` the credit be mine .
Did I not cause the ring to jump out of the man 's mouth ? ''
`` No , it be mine , '' cry the lame one , `` for I run off with the ring . ''
And from high word they soon come to blow , and , ala !
when the quarrel be fierce the bronze ring fell into the sea .
`` How be we to face our queen , '' say the three mouse `` when by our folly we have lose the talisman and condemn our people to be utterly exterminate ?
We can not go back to our country ; let u land on this desert island and there end our miserable life . ''
No sooner say than do .
The boat reach the island , and the mouse land .
The blind mouse be speedily desert by her two sister , who go off to hunt fly , but a she wander sadly along the shore she find a dead fish , and be eat it , when she felt something very hard .
At her cry the other two mouse run up .
`` It be the bronze ring !
It be the talisman ! ''
they cry joyfully , and , get into their boat again , they soon reach the mouse island .
It be time they do , for the captain be just go to land his cargo of cat , when a deputation of mouse bring him the precious bronze ring .
`` Bronze ring , '' command the young man , `` obey thy master .
Let my ship appear a it be before . ''
Immediately the genius of the ring set to work , and the old black vessel become once more the wonderful golden ship with sail of brocade ; the handsome sailor run to the silver mast and the silken rope , and very soon they set sail for the capital .
Ah !
how merrily the sailor sing a they fly over the glassy sea !
At last the port be reach .
The captain land and run to the palace , where he find the wicked old man asleep .
The Princess clasp her husband in a long embrace .
The magician try to escape , but he be seize and bind with strong cord .
The next day the sorcerer , tie to the tail of a savage mule load with nut , be break into as many piece a there be nut upon the mule 's back .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Traditions Populaires de l'Asie Mineure .
Carnoy et Nicolaides .
Paris : Maisonneuve , 1889 .
PRINCE HYACINTH AND THE DEAR LITTLE PRINCESS Once upon a time there live a king who be deeply in love with a princess , but she could not marry anyone , because she be under an enchantment .
So the King set out to seek a fairy , and ask what he could do to win the Princess 's love .
The Fairy say to him : `` You know that the Princess have a great cat which she be very fond of .
Whoever be clever enough to tread on that cat 's tail be the man she be destine to marry . ''
The King say to himself that this would not be very difficult , and he leave the Fairy , determine to grind the cat 's tail to powder rather than not tread on it at all .
You may imagine that it be not long before he go to see the Princess , and pus , a usual , march in before him , arch his back .
The King take a long step , and quite think he have the tail under his foot , but the cat turn round so sharply that he only tread on air .
And so it go on for eight day , till the King begin to think that this fatal tail must be full of quicksilver -- it be never still for a moment .
At last , however , he be lucky enough to come upon puss fast asleep and with his tail conveniently spread out .
So the King , without lose a moment , set his foot upon it heavily .
With one terrific yell the cat spring up and instantly change into a tall man , who , fix his angry eye upon the King , say : `` You shall marry the Princess because you have be able to break the enchantment , but I will have my revenge .
You shall have a son , who will never be happy until he find out that his nose be too long , and if you ever tell anyone what I have just say to you , you shall vanish away instantly , and no one shall ever see you or hear of you again . ''
Though the King be horribly afraid of the enchanter , he could not help laugh at this threat .
`` If my son have such a long nose a that , '' he say to himself , `` he must always see it or feel it ; at least , if he be not blind or without hand . ''
But , a the enchanter have vanish , he do not waste any more time in thinking , but go to seek the Princess , who very soon consent to marry him .
But after all , they have not be marry very long when the King die , and the Queen have nothing left to care for but her little son , who be call Hyacinth .
The little Prince have large blue eye , the pretty eye in the world , and a sweet little mouth , but , ala !
his nose be so enormous that it cover half his face .
The Queen be inconsolable when she saw this great nose , but her lady assure her that it be not really as large a it look ; that it be a Roman nose , and you have only to open any history to see that every hero have a large nose .
The Queen , who be devote to her baby , be pleased with what they tell her , and when she look at Hyacinth again , his nose certainly do not seem to her quite so large .
The Prince be bring up with great care ; and , as soon a he could speak , they tell him all sort of dreadful story about people who have short nose .
No one be allow to come near him whose nose do not more or less resemble his own , and the courtier , to get into favor with the Queen , take to pull their baby ' nose several time every day to make them grow long .
But , do what they would , they be nothing by comparison with the Prince 's .
When he grow sensible he learn history ; and whenever any great prince or beautiful princess be speak of , his teacher take care to tell him that they have long nose .
His room be hang with picture , all of people with very large nose ; and the Prince grow up so convinced that a long nose be a great beauty , that he would not on any account have have his own a single inch shorter !
When his twentieth birthday be pass the Queen think it be time that he should be marry , so she command that the portrait of several princess should be bring for him to see , and among the others be a picture of the Dear Little Princess !
Now , she be the daughter of a great king , and would some day posse several kingdom herself ; but Prince Hyacinth have not a thought to spare for anything of that sort , he be so much struck with her beauty .
The Princess , whom he think quite charming , have , however , a little saucy nose , which , in her face , be the pretty thing possible , but it be a cause of great embarrassment to the courtier , who have get into such a habit of laugh at little nose that they sometimes find themselves laugh at hers before they have time to think ; but this do not do at all before the Prince , who quite fail to see the joke , and actually banish two of his courtier who have dare to mention disrespectfully the Dear Little Princess 's tiny nose !
The others , take warn from this , learn to think twice before they speak , and one even go so far a to tell the Prince that , though it be quite true that no man could be worth anything unless he have a long nose , still , a woman 's beauty be a different thing ; and he know a learn man who understand Greek and have read in some old manuscript that the beautiful Cleopatra herself have a `` tip-tilted '' nose !
The Prince make him a splendid present a a reward for this good news , and at once sent ambassador to ask the Dear Little Princess in marriage .
The King , her father , give his consent ; and Prince Hyacinth , who , in his anxiety to see the Princess , have go three league to meet her be just advance to kiss her hand when , to the horror of all who stand by , the enchanter appear as suddenly a a flash of lightning , and , snatch up the Dear Little Princess , whirl her away out of their sight !
The Prince be leave quite unconsolable , and declare that nothing should induce him to go back to his kingdom until he have find her again , and refuse to allow any of his courtier to follow him , he mount his horse and rode sadly away , let the animal choose his own path .
So it happen that he come presently to a great plain , across which he ride all day long without see a single house , and horse and rider be terribly hungry , when , a the night fell , the Prince catch sight of a light , which seem to shine from a cavern .
He ride up to it , and saw a little old woman , who appear to be at least a hundred year old .
She put on her spectacle to look at Prince Hyacinth , but it be quite a long time before she could fix them securely because her nose be so very short .
The Prince and the Fairy -LRB- for that be who she be -RRB- have no sooner look at one another than they go into fit of laughter , and cry at the same moment , `` Oh , what a funny nose ! ''
`` Not so funny a your own , '' say Prince Hyacinth to the Fairy ; `` but , madam , I beg you to leave the consideration of our nose -- such a they be -- and to be good enough to give me something to eat , for I be starve , and so be my poor horse . ''
`` With all my heart , '' say the Fairy .
`` Though your nose be so ridiculous you be , nevertheless , the son of my best friend .
I love your father a if he have be my brother .
Now he have a very handsome nose ! ''
`` And pray what do mine lack ? ''
say the Prince .
`` Oh !
it do n't lack anything , '' reply the Fairy .
`` On the contrary quite , there be only too much of it .
But never mind , one may be a very worthy man though his nose be too long .
I be tell you that I be your father 's friend ; he often come to see me in the old time , and you must know that I be very pretty in those day ; at least , he use to say so .
I should like to tell you of a conversation we have the last time I ever saw him . ''
`` Indeed , '' say the Prince , `` when I have sup it will give me the great pleasure to hear it ; but consider , madam , I beg of you , that I have have nothing to eat to-day . ''
`` The poor boy be right , '' say the Fairy ; `` I be forget .
Come in , then , and I will give you some supper , and while you be eat I can tell you my story in a very few word -- for I do n't like endless tale myself .
Too long a tongue be bad than too long a nose , and I remember when I be young that I be so much admire for not be a great chatterer .
They use to tell the Queen , my mother , that it be so .
For though you see what I be now , I be the daughter of a great king .
My father -- '' `` Your father , I dare say , get something to eat when he be hungry ! ''
interrupt the Prince .
`` Oh !
certainly , '' answer the Fairy , `` and you also shall have supper directly .
I only just want to tell you -- '' `` But I really can not listen to anything until I have have something to eat , '' cry the Prince , who be get quite angry ; but then , remember that he have well be polite a he much need the Fairy 's help , he add : `` I know that in the pleasure of listen to you I should quite forget my own hunger ; but my horse , who can not hear you , must really be feed ! ''
The Fairy be very much flatter by this compliment , and say , call to her servant : `` You shall not wait another minute , you be so polite , and in spite of the enormous size of your nose you be really very agreeable . ''
`` Plague take the old lady !
How she do go on about my nose ! ''
say the Prince to himself .
`` One would almost think that mine have take all the extra length that hers lack !
If I be not so hungry I would soon have do with this chatterpie who think she talk very little !
How stupid people be not to see their own fault !
That come of be a princess : she have be spoil by flatterer , who have make her believe that she be quite a moderate talker ! ''
Meanwhile the servant be put the supper on the table , and the prince be much amuse to hear the Fairy who ask them a thousand question simply for the pleasure of hear herself speak ; especially he notice one maid who , no matter what be be say , always contrive to praise her mistress 's wisdom .
`` Well ! ''
he think , a he eat his supper , `` I 'm very glad I come here .
This just show me how sensible I have be in never listen to flatterer .
People of that sort praise u to our face without shame , and hide our fault or change them into virtue .
For my part I never will be take in by them .
I know my own defect , I hope . ''
Poor Prince Hyacinth !
He really believe what he say , and have n't an idea that the people who have praise his nose be laugh at him , just a the Fairy 's maid be laugh at her ; for the Prince have see her laugh slyly when she could do so without the Fairy 's notice her .
However , he say nothing , and presently , when his hunger begin to be appease , the Fairy say : `` My dear Prince , might I beg you to move a little more that way , for your nose cast such a shadow that I really can not see what I have on my plate .
Ah !
thanks .
Now let u speak of your father .
When I go to his Court he be only a little boy , but that be forty year ago , and I have be in this desolate place ever since .
Tell me what go on nowadays ; be the lady a fond of amusement a ever ?
In my time one saw them at party , theatre , ball , and promenade every day .
Dear me !
what a long nose you have !
I can not get use to it ! ''
`` Really , madam , '' say the Prince , `` I wish you would leave off mention my nose .
It can not matter to you what it be like .
I be quite satisfied with it , and have no wish to have it short .
One must take what be give one . ''
`` Now you be angry with me , my poor Hyacinth , '' say the Fairy , `` and I assure you that I do n't mean to vex you ; on the contrary , I wish to do you a service .
However , though I really can not help your nose be a shock to me , I will try not to say anything about it .
I will even try to think that you have an ordinary nose .
To tell the truth , it would make three reasonable one . ''
The Prince , who be no long hungry , grow so impatient at the Fairy 's continual remark about his nose that at last he throw himself upon his horse and ride hastily away .
But wherever he come in his journeying he think the people be mad , for they all talk of his nose , and yet he could not bring himself to admit that it be too long , he have be so used all his life to hear it call handsome .
The old Fairy , who wish to make him happy , at last hit upon a plan .
She shut the Dear Little Princess up in a palace of crystal , and put this palace down where the Prince would not fail to find it .
His joy at see the Princess again be extreme , and he set to work with all his might to try to break her prison ; but in spite of all his effort he fail utterly .
In despair he think at least that he would try to get near enough to speak to the Dear Little Princess , who , on her part , stretch out her hand that he might kiss it ; but turn which way he might , he never could raise it to his lip , for his long nose always prevent it .
For the first time he realize how long it really be , and exclaim : `` Well , it must be admit that my nose be too long ! ''
In an instant the crystal prison fly into a thousand splinter , and the old Fairy , take the Dear Little Princess by the hand , say to the Prince : `` Now , say if you be not very much oblige to me .
Much good it be for me to talk to you about your nose !
You would never have find out how extraordinary it be if it have n't hinder you from do what you want to .
You see how self-love keep u from know our own defect of mind and body .
Our reason try in vain to show them to u ; we refuse to see them till we find them in the way of our interest . ''
Prince Hyacinth , whose nose be now just like anyone 's else , do not fail to profit by the lesson he have receive .
He marry the Dear Little Princess , and they live happily ever after .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Le Prince Desir et la Princesse Mignonne .
Par Madame Leprince de Beaumont .
EAST OF THE SUN AND WEST OF THE MOON Once upon a time there be a poor husbandman who have many child and little to give them in the way either of food or clothing .
They be all pretty , but the pretty of all be the young daughter , who be so beautiful that there be no bound to her beauty .
So once -- it be late on a Thursday evening in autumn , and wild weather outside , terribly dark , and rain so heavily and blow so hard that the wall of the cottage shook again -- they be all sit together by the fireside , each of them busy with something or other , when suddenly some one rap three time against the window-pane .
The man go out to see what could be the matter , and when he get out there stand a great big white bear .
`` Good-evening to you , '' say the White Bear .
`` Good-evening , '' say the man .
`` Will you give me your young daughter ? ''
say the White Bear ; `` if you will , you shall be as rich a you be now poor . ''
Truly the man would have have no objection to be rich , but he think to himself : `` I must first ask my daughter about this , '' so he go in and tell them that there be a great white bear outside who have faithfully promise to make them all rich if he might but have the young daughter .
She say no , and would not hear of it ; so the man go out again , and settle with the White Bear that he should come again next Thursday evening , and get her answer .
Then the man persuade her , and talk so much to her about the wealth that they would have , and what a good thing it would be for herself , that at last she make up her mind to go , and wash and mend all her rag , make herself as smart a she could , and hold herself in readiness to set out .
Little enough have she to take away with her .
Next Thursday even the White Bear come to fetch her .
She seat herself on his back with her bundle , and thus they depart .
When they have go a great part of the way , the White Bear say : `` Are you afraid ? ''
`` No , that I be not , '' say she .
`` Keep tight hold of my fur , and then there be no danger , '' say he .
And thus she ride far , far away , until they come to a great mountain .
Then the White Bear knock on it , and a door open , and they go into a castle where there be many brilliantly light room which shine with gold and silver , likewise a large hall in which there be a well-spread table , and it be so magnificent that it would be hard to make anyone understand how splendid it be .
The White Bear give her a silver bell , and tell her that when she need anything she have but to ring this bell , and what she want would appear .
So after she have eat , and night be draw near , she grow sleepy after her journey , and think she would like to go to bed .
She ring the bell , and scarcely have she touch it before she find herself in a chamber where a bed stand ready make for her , which be as pretty a anyone could wish to sleep in .
It have pillow of silk , and curtain of silk fringe with gold , and everything that be in the room be of gold or silver , but when she have lie down and put out the light a man come and lay down beside her , and behold it be the White Bear , who cast off the form of a beast during the night .
She never saw him , however , for he always come after she have put out her light , and go away before daylight appear .
So all go well and happily for a time , but then she begin to be very sad and sorrowful , for all day long she have to go about alone ; and she do so wish to go home to her father and mother and brother and sister .
Then the White Bear ask what it be that she want , and she tell him that it be so dull there in the mountain , and that she have to go about all alone , and that in her parent ' house at home there be all her brother and sister , and it be because she could not go to them that she be so sorrowful .
`` There might be a cure for that , '' say the White Bear , `` if you would but promise me never to talk with your mother alone , but only when the others be there too ; for she will take hold of your hand , '' he say , `` and will want to lead you into a room to talk with you alone ; but that you must by no mean do , or you will bring great misery on both of u . ''
So one Sunday the White Bear come and say that they could now set out to see her father and mother , and they journey thither , she sit on his back , and they go a long , long way , and it take a long , long time ; but at last they come to a large white farmhouse , and her brother and sister be run about outside it , play , and it be so pretty that it be a pleasure to look at it .
`` Your parent dwell here now , '' say the White Bear ; `` but do not forget what I say to you , or you will do much harm both to yourself and me . ''
`` No , indeed , '' say she , `` I shall never forget ; '' and as soon a she be at home the White Bear turn round and go back again .
There be such rejoicing when she go in to her parent that it seem a if they would never come to an end .
Everyone think that he could never be sufficiently grateful to her for all she have do for them all .
Now they have everything that they want , and everything be as good a it could be .
They all ask her how she be get on where she be .
All be well with her too , she say ; and she have everything that she could want .
What other answer she give I can not say , but I be pretty sure that they do not learn much from her .
But in the afternoon , after they have din at midday , all happen just a the White Bear have say .
Her mother want to talk with her alone in her own chamber .
But she remember what the White Bear have say , and would on no account go .
`` What we have to say can be say at any time , '' she answer .
But somehow or other her mother at last persuade her , and she be force to tell the whole story .
So she tell how every night a man come and lay down beside her when the light be all put out , and how she never saw him , because he always go away before it grow light in the morning , and how she continually go about in sadness , think how happy she would be if she could but see him , and how all day long she have to go about alone , and it be so dull and solitary .
`` Oh ! ''
cry the mother , in horror , `` you be very likely sleep with a troll !
But I will teach you a way to see him .
You shall have a bit of one of my candle , which you can take away with you hide in your breast .
Look at him with that when he be asleep , but take care not to let any tallow drop upon him . ''
So she take the candle , and hide it in her breast , and when even draw near the White Bear come to fetch her away .
When they have go some distance on their way , the White Bear ask her if everything have not happen just a he have foretell , and she could not but own that it have .
`` Then , if you have do what your mother wish , '' say he , `` you have bring great misery on both of u . ''
`` No , '' she say , `` I have not do anything at all . ''
So when she have reach home and have go to bed it be just the same a it have be before , and a man come and lay down beside her , and late at night , when she could hear that he be sleep , she get up and kindle a light , light her candle , let her light shine on him , and saw him , and he be the handsome prince that eye have ever behold , and she love him so much that it seem to her that she must die if she do not kiss him that very moment .
So she do kiss him ; but while she be do it she let three drop of hot tallow fall upon his shirt , and he awake .
`` What have you do now ? ''
say he ; `` you have bring misery on both of u .
If you have but hold out for the space of one year I should have be free .
I have a step-mother who have bewitch me so that I be a white bear by day and a man by night ; but now all be at an end between you and me , and I must leave you , and go to her .
She live in a castle which lie east of the sun and west of the moon , and there too be a princess with a nose which be three ell long , and she now be the one whom I must marry . ''
She weep and lament , but all in vain , for go he must .
Then she ask him if she could not go with him .
But no , that could not be .
`` Can you tell me the way then , and I will seek you -- that I may surely be allow to do ! ''
`` Yes , you may do that , '' say he ; `` but there be no way thither .
It lie east of the sun and west of the moon , and never would you find your way there . ''
When she awake in the morning both the Prince and the castle be go , and she be lie on a small green patch in the midst of a dark , thick wood .
By her side lay the self-same bundle of rag which she have bring with her from her own home .
So when she have rub the sleep out of her eye , and wept till she be weary , she set out on her way , and thus she walk for many and many a long day , until at last she come to a great mountain .
Outside it an aged woman be sit , play with a golden apple .
The girl ask her if she know the way to the Prince who live with his stepmother in the castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon , and who be to marry a princess with a nose which be three ell long .
`` How do you happen to know about him ? ''
inquire the old woman ; `` maybe you be she who ought to have have him . ''
`` Yes , indeed , I be , '' she say .
`` So it be you , then ? ''
say the old woman ; `` I know nothing about him but that he dwell in a castle which be east of the sun and west of the moon .
You will be a long time in get to it , if ever you get to it at all ; but you shall have the loan of my horse , and then you can ride on it to an old woman who be a neighbor of mine : perhaps she can tell you about him .
When you have get there you must just strike the horse beneath the left ear and bid it go home again ; but you may take the golden apple with you . ''
So the girl seat herself on the horse , and rode for a long , long way , and at last she come to the mountain , where an aged woman be sit outside with a gold carding-comb .
The girl ask her if she know the way to the castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon ; but she say what the first old woman have say : `` I know nothing about it , but that it be east of the sun and west of the moon , and that you will be a long time in get to it , if ever you get there at all ; but you shall have the loan of my horse to an old woman who live the near to me : perhaps she may know where the castle be , and when you have get to her you may just strike the horse beneath the left ear and bid it go home again . ''
Then she give her the gold carding-comb , for it might , perhaps , be of use to her , she say .
So the girl seat herself on the horse , and ride a wearisome long way onward again , and after a very long time she come to a great mountain , where an aged woman be sit , spin at a golden spinning-wheel .
Of this woman , too , she inquire if she know the way to the Prince , and where to find the castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon .
But it be only the same thing once again .
`` Maybe it be you who should have have the Prince , '' say the old woman .
`` Yes , indeed , I should have be the one , '' say the girl .
But this old crone know the way no good than the others -- it be east of the sun and west of the moon , she know that , `` and you will be a long time in get to it , if ever you get to it at all , '' she say ; `` but you may have the loan of my horse , and I think you have good ride to the East Wind , and ask him : perhaps he may know where the castle be , and will blow you thither .
But when you have get to him you must just strike the horse beneath the left ear , and he will come home again . ''
And then she give her the golden spinning-wheel , say : `` Perhaps you may find that you have a use for it . ''
The girl have to ride for a great many day , and for a long and wearisome time , before she get there ; but at last she do arrive , and then she ask the East Wind if he could tell her the way to the Prince who dwell east of the sun and west of the moon .
`` Well , '' say the East Wind , `` I have hear tell of the Prince , and of his castle , but I do not know the way to it , for I have never blow so far ; but , if you like , I will go with you to my brother the West Wind : he may know that , for he be much strong than I be .
You may sit on my back , and then I can carry you there . ''
So she seat herself on his back , and they do go so swiftly !
When they get there , the East Wind go in and say that the girl whom he have bring be the one who ought to have have the Prince up at the castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon , and that now she be travel about to find him again , so he have come there with her , and would like to hear if the West Wind know whereabout the castle be .
`` No , '' say the West Wind ; `` so far a that have I never blow ; but if you like I will go with you to the South Wind , for he be much strong than either of u , and he have roam far and wide , and perhaps he can tell you what you want to know .
You may seat yourself on my back , and then I will carry you to him . ''
.
So she do this , and journey to the South Wind , neither be she very long on the way .
When they have get there , the West Wind ask him if he could tell her the way to the castle that lay east of the sun and west of the moon , for she be the girl who ought to marry the Prince who live there .
`` Oh , indeed ! ''
say the South Wind , `` be that she ?
Well , '' say he , `` I have wander about a great deal in my time , and in all kind of place , but I have never blow so far a that .
If you like , however , I will go with you to my brother , the North Wind ; he be the old and strong of all of u , and if he do not know where it be no one in the whole world will be able to tell you .
You may sit upon my back , and then I will carry you there . ''
So she seat herself on his back , and off he go from his house in great haste , and they be not long on the way .
When they come near the North Wind 's dwelling , he be so wild and frantic that they felt cold gust a long while before they get there .
`` What do you want ? ''
he roar out from afar , and they freeze a they hear .
Said the South Wind : `` It be I , and this be she who should have have the Prince who live in the castle which lie east of the sun and west of the moon .
And now she wish to ask you if you have ever be there , and can tell her the way , for she would gladly find him again . ''
`` Yes , '' say the North Wind , `` I know where it be .
I once blow an aspen leaf there , but I be so tired that for many day afterward I be not able to blow at all .
However , if you really be anxious to go there , and be not afraid to go with me , I will take you on my back , and try if I can blow you there . ''
`` Get there I must , '' say she ; `` and if there be any way of go I will ; and I have no fear , no matter how fast you go . ''
`` Very well then , '' say the North Wind ; `` but you must sleep here to-night , for if we be ever to get there we must have the day before u . ''
The North Wind wake her betimes next morning , and puff himself up , and make himself so big and so strong that it be frightful to see him , and away they go , high up through the air , a if they would not stop until they have reach the very end of the world .
Down below there be such a storm !
It blow down wood and house , and when they be above the sea the ship be wreck by hundred .
And thus they tear on and on , and a long time go by , and then yet more time pass , and still they be above the sea , and the North Wind grow tired , and more tired , and at last so utterly weary that he be scarcely able to blow any long , and he sink and sink , low and low , until at last he go so low that the wave dash against the heel of the poor girl he be carry .
`` Art thou afraid ? ''
say the North Wind .
`` I have no fear , '' say she ; and it be true .
But they be not very , very far from land , and there be just enough strength leave in the North Wind to enable him to throw her on to the shore , immediately under the window of a castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon ; but then he be so weary and wear out that he be force to rest for several day before he could go to his own home again .
Next morning she sit down beneath the wall of the castle to play with the golden apple , and the first person she saw be the maiden with the long nose , who be to have the Prince .
`` How much do you want for that gold apple of yours , girl ? ''
say she , open the window .
`` It ca n't be buy either for gold or money , '' answer the girl .
`` If it can not be buy either for gold or money , what will buy it ?
You may say what you please , '' say the Princess .
`` Well , if I may go to the Prince who be here , and be with him to-night , you shall have it , '' say the girl who have come with the North Wind .
`` You may do that , '' say the Princess , for she have make up her mind what she would do .
So the Princess get the golden apple , but when the girl go up to the Prince 's apartment that night he be asleep , for the Princess have so contrive it .
The poor girl call to him , and shake him , and between while she weep ; but she could not wake him .
In the morning , as soon a day dawn , in come the Princess with the long nose , and drive her out again .
In the daytime she sit down once more beneath the window of the castle , and begin to card with her golden carding-comb ; and then all happen a it have happen before .
The Princess ask her what she want for it , and she reply that it be not for sale , either for gold or money , but that if she could get leave to go to the Prince , and be with him during the night , she should have it .
But when she go up to the Prince 's room he be again asleep , and , let her call him , or shake him , or weep a she would , he still sleep on , and she could not put any life in him .
When daylight come in the morning , the Princess with the long nose come too , and once more drive her away .
When day have quite come , the girl seat herself under the castle windows , to spin with her golden spinning-wheel , and the Princess with the long nose want to have that also .
So she open the window , and ask what she would take for it .
The girl say what she have say on each of the former occasion -- that it be not for sale either for gold or for money , but if she could get leave to go to the Prince who live there , and be with him during the night , she should have it .
`` Yes , '' say the Princess , `` I will gladly consent to that . ''
But in that place there be some Christian folk who have be carry off , and they have be sit in the chamber which be next to that of the Prince , and have hear how a woman have be in there who have wept and call on him two night run , and they tell the Prince of this .
So that evening , when the Princess come once more with her sleeping-drink , he pretend to drink , but throw it away behind him , for he suspect that it be a sleeping-drink .
So , when the girl go into the Prince 's room this time he be awake , and she have to tell him how she have come there .
`` You have come just in time , '' say the Prince , `` for I should have be marry to-morrow ; but I will not have the long-nosed Princess , and you alone can save me .
I will say that I want to see what my bride can do , and bid her wash the shirt which have the three drop of tallow on it .
This she will consent to do , for she do not know that it be you who let them fall on it ; but no one can wash them out but one born of Christian folk : it can not be do by one of a pack of troll ; and then I will say that no one shall ever be my bride but the woman who can do this , and I know that you can . ''
There be great joy and gladness between them all that night , but the next day , when the wedding be to take place , the Prince say , `` I must see what my bride can do . ''
`` That you may do , '' say the stepmother .
`` I have a fine shirt which I want to wear a my wedding shirt , but three drop of tallow have get upon it which I want to have wash off , and I have vow to marry no one but the woman who be able to do it .
If she can not do that , she be not worth have . ''
Well , that be a very small matter , they think , and agree to do it .
The Princess with the long nose begin to wash as well a she could , but , the more she wash and rub , the large the spot grow .
`` Ah !
you ca n't wash at all , '' say the old troll-hag , who be her mother .
`` Give it to me . ''
But she too have not have the shirt very long in her hand before it look bad still , and , the more she wash it and rub it , the large and blacker grow the spot .
So the other troll have to come and wash , but , the more they do , the blacker and uglier grow the shirt , until at length it be as black a if it have be up the chimney .
`` Oh , '' cry the Prince , `` not one of you be good for anything at all !
There be a beggar-girl sitting outside the window , and I 'll be bind that she can wash good than any of you !
Come in , you girl there ! ''
he cry .
So she come in .
`` Can you wash this shirt clean ? ''
he cry .
`` Oh !
I do n't know , '' she say ; `` but I will try . ''
And no sooner have she take the shirt and dip it in the water than it be white a driven snow , and even white than that .
`` I will marry you , '' say the Prince .
Then the old troll-hag flew into such a rage that she burst , and the Princess with the long nose and all the little troll must have burst too , for they have never be hear of since .
The Prince and his bride set free all the Christian folk who be imprison there , and take away with them all the gold and silver that they could carry , and move far away from the castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Asbjornsen and Moe .
THE YELLOW DWARF Once upon a time there live a queen who have be the mother of a great many child , and of them all only one daughter be leave .
But then she be worth at least a thousand .
Her mother , who , since the death of the King , her father , have nothing in the world she care for so much a this little Princess , be so terribly afraid of lose her that she quite spoil her , and never try to correct any of her fault .
The consequence be that this little person , who be as pretty a possible , and be one day to wear a crown , grow up so proud and so much in love with her own beauty that she despise everyone else in the world .
The Queen , her mother , by her caress and flattery , help to make her believe that there be nothing too good for her .
She be dress almost always in the prettiest frock , a a fairy , or a a queen go out to hunt , and the lady of the Court follow her dressed a forest fairy .
And to make her more vain than ever the Queen cause her portrait to be take by the cleverest painter and send it to several neighboring king with whom she be very friendly .
When they saw this portrait they fell in love with the Princess -- every one of them , but upon each it have a different effect .
One fell ill , one go quite crazy , and a few of the lucky set off to see her as soon a possible , but these poor prince become her slave the moment they set eye on her .
Never have there be a gay Court .
Twenty delightful king do everything they could think of to make themselves agreeable , and after have spend ever so much money in give a single entertainment think themselves very lucky if the Princess say `` That 's pretty . ''
All this admiration vastly please the Queen .
Not a day pass but she receive seven or eight thousand sonnet , and a many elegy , madrigal , and song , which be send her by all the poet in the world .
All the prose and the poetry that be write just then be about Bellissima -- for that be the Princess 's name -- and all the bonfire that they have be make of these verse , which crackle and sparkle good than any other sort of wood .
Bellissima be already fifteen year old , and every one of the Princes wish to marry her , but not one dare to say so .
How could they when they know that any of them might have cut off his head five or six time a day just to please her , and she would have think it a mere trifle , so little do she care ?
You may imagine how hard-hearted her lover think her ; and the Queen , who wish to see her married , do not know how to persuade her to think of it seriously .
`` Bellissima , '' she say , `` I do wish you would not be so proud .
What make you despise all these nice king ?
I wish you to marry one of them , and you do not try to please me . ''
`` I be so happy , '' Bellissima answer : `` do leave me in peace , madam .
I do n't want to care for anyone . ''
`` But you would be very happy with any of these Princes , '' say the Queen , `` and I shall be very angry if you fall in love with anyone who be not worthy of you . ''
But the Princess think so much of herself that she do not consider any one of her lover clever or handsome enough for her ; and her mother , who be get really angry at her determination not to be marry , begin to wish that she have not allow her to have her own way so much .
At last , not know what else to do , she resolve to consult a certain witch who be call `` The Fairy of the Desert . ''
Now this be very difficult to do , a she be guard by some terrible lion ; but happily the Queen have hear a long time before that whoever want to pass these lion safely must throw to them a cake make of millet flour , sugar-candy , and crocodile 's egg .
This cake she prepare with her own hand , and put it in a little basket , she set out to seek the Fairy .
But a she be not use to walk far , she soon felt very tired and sit down at the foot of a tree to rest , and presently fell fast asleep .
When she awake she be dismay to find her basket empty .
The cake be all go !
and , to make matter bad , at that moment she hear the roaring of the great lion , who have find out that she be near and be come to look for her .
`` What shall I do ? ''
she cry ; `` I shall be eat up , '' and be too frighten to run a single step , she begin to cry , and lean against the tree under which she have be asleep .
Just then she hear some one say : `` H 'm , h 'm ! ''
She look all round her , and then up the tree , and there she saw a little tiny man , who be eat orange .
`` Oh !
Queen , '' say he , `` I know you very well , and I know how much afraid you be of the lion ; and you be quite right too , for they have eat many other people : and what can you expect , a you have not any cake to give them ? ''
`` I must make up my mind to die , '' say the poor Queen .
`` Alas !
I should not care so much if only my dear daughter be marry . ''
`` Oh !
you have a daughter , '' cry the Yellow Dwarf -LRB- who be so called because he be a dwarf and have such a yellow face , and live in the orange tree -RRB- .
`` I 'm really glad to hear that , for I 've be look for a wife all over the world .
Now , if you will promise that she shall marry me , not one of the lion , tiger , or bear shall touch you . ''
The Queen look at him and be almost a much afraid of his ugly little face a she have be of the lion before , so that she could not speak a word .
`` What !
you hesitate , madam , '' cry the Dwarf .
`` You must be very fond of be eat up alive . ''
And , a he speak , the Queen saw the lion , which be run down a hill toward them .
Each one have two head , eight foot , and four row of teeth , and their skin be as hard a turtle shell , and be bright red .
At this dreadful sight , the poor Queen , who be tremble like a dove when it see a hawk , cry out as loud a she could , `` Oh !
dear Mr . Dwarf , Bellissima shall marry you . ''
`` Oh , indeed ! ''
say he disdainfully .
`` Bellissima be pretty enough , but I do n't particularly want to marry her -- you can keep her . ''
`` Oh !
noble sir , '' say the Queen in great distress , `` do not refuse her .
She be the most charming Princess in the world . ''
`` Oh !
well , '' he reply , `` out of charity I will take her ; but be sure and do n't forget that she be mine . ''
As he speak a little door open in the trunk of the orange tree , in rush the Queen , only just in time , and the door shut with a bang in the face of the lion .
The Queen be so confused that at first she do not notice another little door in the orange tree , but presently it open and she find herself in a field of thistle and nettle .
It be encircle by a muddy ditch , and a little further on be a tiny thatched cottage , out of which come the Yellow Dwarf with a very jaunty air .
He wear wooden shoe and a little yellow coat , and a he have no hair and very long ears he look altogether a shocking little object .
`` I be delighted , '' say he to the Queen , `` that , a you be to be my mother-in-law , you should see the little house in which your Bellissima will live with me .
With these thistle and nettle she can fee a donkey which she can ride whenever she like ; under this humble roof no weather can hurt her ; she will drink the water of this brook and eat frog -- which grow very fat about here ; and then she will have me always with her , handsome , agreeable , and gay a you see me now .
For if her shadow stay by her more closely than I do I shall be surprise . ''
The unhappy Queen , see all at once what a miserable life her daughter would have with this Dwarf could not bear the idea , and fell down insensible without say a word .
When she revive she find to her great surprise that she be lie in her own bed at home , and , what be more , that she have on the lovely lace night cap that she have ever see in her life .
At first she think that all her adventure , the terrible lion , and her promise to the Yellow Dwarf that he should marry Bellissima , must have be a dream , but there be the new cap with it beautiful ribbon and lace to remind her that it be all true , which make her so unhappy that she could neither eat , drink , nor sleep for thinking of it .
The Princess , who , in spite of her wilfulness , really love her mother with all her heart , be much grieve when she saw her look so sad , and often ask her what be the matter ; but the Queen , who do n't want her to find out the truth , only say that she be ill , or that one of her neighbor be threaten to make war against her .
Bellissima know quite well that something be be hide from her -- and that neither of these be the real reason of the Queen 's uneasiness .
So she make up her mind that she would go and consult the Fairy of the Desert about it , especially a she have often hear how wise she be , and she think that at the same time she might ask her advice a to whether it would be as well to be marry , or not .
So , with great care , she make some of the proper cake to pacify the lion , and one night go up to her room very early , pretend that she be go to bed ; but instead of that , she wrap herself in a long white veil , and go down a secret staircase , and set off all by herself to find the Witch .
But when she get as far a the same fatal orange tree , and saw it cover with flower and fruit , she stop and begin to gather some of the orange -- and then , put down her basket , she sit down to eat them .
But when it be time to go on again the basket have disappear and , though she look everywhere , not a trace of it could she find .
The more she hunt for it , the more frightened she get , and at last she begin to cry .
Then all at once she saw before her the Yellow Dwarf .
`` What 's the matter with you , my pretty one ? ''
say he .
`` What be you cry about ? ''
`` Alas ! ''
she answer ; `` no wonder that I be cry , see that I have lose the basket of cake that be to help me to get safely to the cave of the Fairy of the Desert . ''
`` And what do you want with her , pretty one ? ''
say the little monster , `` for I be a friend of hers , and , for the matter of that , I be quite as clever a she be . ''
`` The Queen , my mother , '' reply the Princess , `` have lately fall into such deep sadness that I fear that she will die ; and I be afraid that perhaps I be the cause of it , for she very much wish me to be marry , and I must tell you truly that a yet I have not find anyone I consider worthy to be my husband .
So for all these reason I wish to talk to the Fairy . ''
`` Do not give yourself any further trouble , Princess , '' answer the Dwarf .
`` I can tell you all you want to know good than she could .
The Queen , your mother , have promise you in marriage -- '' `` Has promise me !
'' interrupt the Princess .
`` Oh !
no .
I 'm sure she have not .
She would have tell me if she have .
I be too much interested in the matter for her to promise anything without my consent -- you must be mistake . ''
`` Beautiful Princess , '' cry the Dwarf suddenly , throw himself on his knee before her , `` I flatter myself that you will not be displease at her choice when I tell you that it be to me she have promise the happiness of marry you . ''
`` You ! ''
cry Bellissima , start back .
`` My mother wish me to marry you !
How can you be so silly a to think of such a thing ? ''
`` Oh !
it be n't that I care much to have that honor , '' cry the Dwarf angrily ; `` but here be the lion come ; they 'll eat you up in three mouthful , and there will be an end of you and your pride . ''
And , indeed , at that moment the poor Princess hear their dreadful howl come near and nearer .
`` What shall I do ? ''
she cry .
`` Must all my happy day come to an end like this ? ''
The malicious Dwarf look at her and begin to laugh spitefully .
`` At least , '' say he , `` you have the satisfaction of die unmarried .
A lovely Princess like you must surely prefer to die rather than be the wife of a poor little dwarf like myself . ''
`` Oh , do n't be angry with me , '' cry the Princess , clasp her hand .
`` I 'd rather marry all the dwarf in the world than die in this horrible way . ''
`` Look at me well , Princess , before you give me your word , '' say he .
`` I do n't want you to promise me in a hurry . ''
`` Oh ! ''
cry she , `` the lion be come .
I have look at you enough .
I be so frightened .
Save me this minute , or I shall die of terror . ''
Indeed , a she speak she fell down insensible , and when she recover she find herself in her own little bed at home ; how she get there she could not tell , but she be dress in the most beautiful lace and ribbon , and on her finger be a little ring , make of a single red hair , which fit so tightly that , try a she might , she could not get it off .
When the Princess saw all these thing , and remember what have happen , she , too , fell into the deep sadness , which surprise and alarm the whole Court , and the Queen more than anyone else .
A hundred time she ask Bellissima if anything be the matter with her ; but she always say that there be nothing .
At last the chief men of the kingdom , anxious to see their Princess marry , send to the Queen to beg her to choose a husband for her as soon a possible .
She reply that nothing would please her better , but that her daughter seem so unwilling to marry , and she recommend them to go and talk to the Princess about it themselves so this they at once do .
Now Bellissima be much less proud since her adventure with the Yellow Dwarf , and she could not think of a good way of get rid of the little monster than to marry some powerful king , therefore she reply to their request much more favorably than they have hop , say that , though she be very happy a she be , still , to please them , she would consent to marry the King of the Gold Mines .
Now he be a very handsome and powerful Prince , who have be in love with the Princess for year , but have not think that she would ever care about him at all .
You can easily imagine how delighted he be when he hear the news , and how angry it make all the other king to lose for ever the hope of marry the Princess ; but , after all , Bellissima could not have marry twenty king -- indeed , she have find it quite difficult enough to choose one , for her vanity make her believe that there be nobody in the world who be worthy of her .
Preparations be begin at once for the grand wedding that have ever be hold at the palace .
The King of the Gold Mines send such immense sum of money that the whole sea be cover with the ship that bring it .
Messengers be send to all the gay and most refined Courts , particularly to the Court of France , to seek out everything rare and precious to adorn the Princess , although her beauty be so perfect that nothing she wear could make her look prettier .
At least that be what the King of the Gold Mines think , and he be never happy unless he be with her .
As for the Princess , the more she saw of the King the more she like him ; he be so generous , so handsome and clever , that at last she be almost as much in love with him a he be with her .
How happy they be a they wander about in the beautiful garden together , sometimes listen to sweet music !
And the King use to write song for Bellissima .
This be one that she like very much : In the forest all be gay When my Princess walk that way .
All the blossom then be find Downward flutter to the ground , Hoping she may tread on them .
And bright flower on slender stem Gaze up at her a she pass Brushing lightly through the grass .
Oh !
my Princess , bird above Echo back our song of love , As through this enchanted land Blithe we wander , hand in hand .
They really be as happy a the day be long .
All the King 's unsuccessful rival have go home in despair .
They say good-by to the Princess so sadly that she could not help be sorry for them .
`` Ah !
madam , '' the King of the Gold Mines say to her `` how be this ?
Why do you waste your pity on these prince , who love you so much that all their trouble would be well repay by a single smile from you ? ''
`` I should be sorry , '' answer Bellissima , `` if you have not notice how much I pity these prince who be leave me for ever ; but for you , sire , it be very different : you have every reason to be please with me , but they be go sorrowfully away , so you must not grudge them my compassion . ''
The King of the Gold Mines be quite overcome by the Princess 's good-natured way of take his interference , and , throw himself at her foot , he kiss her hand a thousand time and beg her to forgive him .
At last the happy day come .
Everything be ready for Bellissima 's wedding .
The trumpet sound , all the street of the town be hang with flag and strewn with flower , and the people run in crowd to the great square before the palace .
The Queen be so overjoyed that she have hardly be able to sleep at all , and she get up before it be light to give the necessary order and to choose the jewel that the Princess be to wear .
These be nothing less than diamond , even to her shoe , which be cover with them , and her dress of silver brocade be embroider with a dozen of the sun 's ray .
You may imagine how much these have cost ; but then nothing could have be more brilliant , except the beauty of the Princess !
Upon her head she wear a splendid crown , her lovely hair wave nearly to her foot , and her stately figure could easily be distinguish among all the lady who attend her .
The King of the Gold Mines be not less noble and splendid ; it be easy to see by his face how happy he be , and everyone who go near him return load with present , for all round the great banqueting hall have be arrange a thousand barrel full of gold , and numberless bag make of velvet embroider with pearl and fill with money , each one containing at least a hundred thousand gold piece , which be give away to everyone who like to hold out his hand , which number of people hasten to do , you may be sure -- indeed , some find this by far the most amusing part of the wedding festivity .
The Queen and the Princess be just ready to set out with the King when they saw , advance toward them from the end of the long gallery , two great basilisk , drag after them a very badly make box ; behind them come a tall old woman , whose ugliness be even more surprising than her extreme old age .
She wear a ruff of black taffeta , a red velvet hood , and a farthingale all in rag , and she lean heavily upon a crutch .
This strange old woman , without say a single word , hobble three time round the gallery , follow by the basilisk , then stop in the middle , and brandish her crutch threateningly , she cry : `` Ho , ho , Queen !
Ho , ho , Princess !
Do you think you be go to break with impunity the promise that you make to my friend the Yellow Dwarf ?
I be the Fairy of the Desert ; without the Yellow Dwarf and his orange tree my great lion would soon have eat you up , I can tell you , and in Fairyland we do not suffer ourselves to be insult like this .
Make up your mind at once what you will do , for I vow that you shall marry the Yellow Dwarf .
If you do n't , may I burn my crutch ! ''
`` Ah !
Princess , '' say the Queen , weeping , `` what be this that I hear ?
What have you promise ? ''
`` Ah !
my mother , '' reply Bellissima sadly , `` what do you promise , yourself ? ''
The King of the Gold Mines , indignant at be keep from his happiness by this wicked old woman , go up to her , and threaten her with his sword , say : `` Get away out of my country at once , and for ever , miserable creature , l I take your life , and so rid myself of your malice . ''
He have hardly speak these word when the lid of the box fell back on the floor with a terrible noise , and to their horror out sprang the Yellow Dwarf , mount upon a great Spanish cat .
`` Rash youth ! ''
he cry , rush between the Fairy of the Desert and the King .
`` Dare to lay a finger upon this illustrious Fairy !
Your quarrel be with me only .
I be your enemy and your rival .
That faithless Princess who would have marry you be promise to me .
See if she have not upon her finger a ring make of one of my hair .
Just try to take it off , and you will soon find out that I be more powerful than you be ! ''
`` Wretched little monster ! ''
say the King ; `` do you dare to call yourself the Princess 's lover , and to lay claim to such a treasure ?
Do you know that you be a dwarf -- that you be so ugly that one can not bear to look at you -- and that I should have kill you myself long before this if you have be worthy of such a glorious death ? ''
The Yellow Dwarf , deeply enrage at these word , set spur to his cat , which yell horribly , and leap hither and thither -- terrify everybody except the brave King , who pursue the Dwarf closely , till he , draw a great knife with which he be arm , challenge the King to meet him in single combat , and rush down into the courtyard of the palace with a terrible clatter .
The King , quite provoke , follow him hastily , but they have hardly take their place face one another , and the whole Court have only just have time to rush out upon the balcony to watch what be go on , when suddenly the sun become as red a blood , and it be so dark that they could scarcely see at all .
The thunder crash , and the lightning seem a if it must burn up everything ; the two basilisk appear , one on each side of the bad Dwarf , like giant , mountain high , and fire flew from their mouth and ear , until they look like flame furnace .
None of these thing could terrify the noble young King , and the boldness of his look and action reassure those who be look on , and perhaps even embarrass the Yellow Dwarf himself ; but even his courage give way when he saw what be happen to his beloved Princess .
For the Fairy of the Desert , look more terrible than before , mount upon a winged griffin , and with long snake coil round her neck , have give her such a blow with the lance she carry that Bellissima fell into the Queen 's arm bleeding and senseless .
Her fond mother , feel as much hurt by the blow a the Princess herself , utter such piercing cry and lamentation that the King , hear them , entirely lose his courage and presence of mind .
Giving up the combat , he fly toward the Princess , to rescue or to die with her ; but the Yellow Dwarf be too quick for him .
Leaping with his Spanish cat upon the balcony , he snatch Bellissima from the Queen 's arm , and before any of the lady of the Court could stop him he have spring upon the roof of the palace and disappear with his prize .
The King , motionless with horror , look on despairingly at this dreadful occurrence , which he be quite powerless to prevent , and to make matter bad his sight fail him , everything become dark , and he felt himself carry along through the air by a strong hand .
This new misfortune be the work of the wicked Fairy of the Desert , who have come with the Yellow Dwarf to help him carry off the Princess , and have fall in love with the handsome young King of the Gold Mines directly she saw him .
She think that if she carry him off to some frightful cavern and chain him to a rock , then the fear of death would make him forget Bellissima and become her slave .
So , as soon a they reach the place , she give him back his sight , but without release him from his chain , and by her magic power she appear before him a a young and beautiful fairy , and pretend to have come there quite by chance .
`` What do I see ? ''
she cry .
`` Is it you , dear Prince ?
What misfortune have bring you to this dismal place ? ''
The King , who be quite deceive by her altered appearance , reply : `` Alas !
beautiful Fairy , the fairy who bring me here first take away my sight , but by her voice I recognize her a the Fairy of the Desert , though what she should have carry me off for I can not tell you . ''
`` Ah ! ''
cry the pretended Fairy , `` if you have fall into her hand , you wo n't get away until you have marry her .
She have carry off more than one Prince like this , and she will certainly have anything she take a fancy to . ''
While she be thus pretend to be sorry for the King , he suddenly notice her foot , which be like those of a griffin , and know in a moment that this must be the Fairy of the Desert , for her foot be the one thing she could not change , however pretty she might make her face .
Without seem to have notice anything , he say , in a confidential way : `` Not that I have any dislike to the Fairy of the Desert , but I really can not endure the way in which she protect the Yellow Dwarf and keep me chain here like a criminal .
It be true that I love a charming princess , but if the Fairy should set me free my gratitude would oblige me to love her only . ''
`` Do you really mean what you say , Prince ? ''
say the Fairy , quite deceive .
`` Surely , '' reply the Prince ; `` how could I deceive you ?
You see it be so much more flattering to my vanity to be love by a fairy than by a simple princess .
But , even if I be die of love for her , I shall pretend to hate her until I be set free . ''
The Fairy of the Desert , quite take in by these word , resolve at once to transport the Prince to a pleasant place .
So , make him mount her chariot , to which she have harness swan instead of the bat which generally draw it , away she fly with him .
But imagine the distress of the Prince when , from the giddy height at which they be rush through the air , he saw his beloved Princess in a castle built of polished steel , the wall of which reflect the sun 's ray so hotly that no one could approach it without be burn to a cinder !
Bellissima be sit in a little thicket by a brook , lean her head upon her hand and weep bitterly , but just a they pass she look up and saw the King and the Fairy of the Desert .
Now , the Fairy be so clever that she could not only seem beautiful to the King , but even the poor Princess think her the most lovely be she have ever see .
`` What ! ''
she cry ; `` be I not unhappy enough in this lonely castle to which that frightful Yellow Dwarf bring me ?
Must I also be make to know that the King of the Gold Mines cease to love me as soon a he lose sight of me ?
But who can my rival be , whose fatal beauty be great than mine ? ''
While she be say this , the King , who really love her as much a ever , be feel terribly sad at be so rapidly torn away from his beloved Princess , but he know too well how powerful the Fairy be to have any hope of escape from her except by great patience and cunning .
The Fairy of the Desert have also see Bellissima , and she try to read in the King 's eye the effect that this unexpected sight have have upon him .
`` No one can tell you what you wish to know good than I can , '' say he .
`` This chance meeting with an unhappy princess for whom I once have a passing fancy , before I be lucky enough to meet you , have affect me a little , I admit , but you be so much more to me than she be that I would rather die than leave you . ''
`` Ah , Prince , '' she say , `` can I believe that you really love me so much ? ''
`` Time will show , madam , '' reply the King ; `` but if you wish to convince me that you have some regard for me , do not , I beg of you , refuse to aid Bellissima . ''
`` Do you know what you be ask ? ''
say the Fairy of the Desert , frowning , and look at him suspiciously .
`` Do you want me to employ my art against the Yellow Dwarf , who be my best friend , and take away from him a proud princess whom I can but look upon a my rival ? ''
The King sigh , but make no answer -- indeed , what be there to be say to such a clear-sighted person ?
At last they reach a vast meadow , gay with all sort of flower ; a deep river surround it , and many little brook murmur softly under the shady tree , where it be always cool and fresh .
A little way off stand a splendid palace , the wall of which be of transparent emerald .
As soon a the swan which draw the Fairy 's chariot have alight under a porch , which be pave with diamond and have arch of ruby , they be greet on all side by thousand of beautiful being , who come to meet them joyfully , sing these word : `` When Love within a heart would reign , Useless to strive against him 't be .
The proud but feel a sharp pain , And make a great triumph his . ''
The Fairy of the Desert be delight to hear them sing of her triumph ; she lead the King into the most splendid room that can be imagine , and leave him alone for a little while , just that he might not feel that he be a prisoner ; but he felt sure that she have not really go quite away , but be watch him from some hiding-place .
So walk up to a great mirror , he say to it , `` Trusty counsellor , let me see what I can do to make myself agreeable to the charm Fairy of the Desert ; for I can think of nothing but how to please her . ''
And he at once set to work to curl his hair , and , see upon a table a grander coat than his own , he put it on carefully .
The Fairy come back so delighted that she could not conceal her joy .
`` I be quite aware of the trouble you have take to please me , '' say she , `` and I must tell you that you have succeed perfectly already .
You see it be not difficult to do if you really care for me . ''
The King , who have his own reason for wish to keep the old Fairy in a good humor , do not spare pretty speech , and after a time he be allow to walk by himself upon the sea-shore .
The Fairy of the Desert have by her enchantment raise such a terrible storm that the bold pilot would not venture out in it , so she be not afraid of her prisoner 's be able to escape ; and he find it some relief to think sadly over his terrible situation without be interrupt by his cruel captor .
Presently , after walk wildly up and down , he write these verse upon the sand with his stick : `` At last may I upon this shore Lighten my sorrow with soft tear .
Alas !
ala !
I see no more My Love , who yet my sadness cheer .
`` And thou , O raging , stormy Sea , Stirred by wild wind , from depth to height , Thou hold ` st my loved one far from me , And I be captive to thy might .
`` My heart be still more wild than thine , For Fate be cruel unto me .
Why must I thus in exile pine ?
Why be my Princess snatch from me ?
`` O !
lovely Nymphs , from ocean cave , Who know how sweet true love may be , Come up and calm the furious wave And set a desperate lover free ! ''
While he be still write he hear a voice which attract his attention in spite of himself .
Seeing that the wave be roll in high than ever , he look all round , and presently saw a lovely lady float gently toward him upon the crest of a huge billow , her long hair spread all about her ; in one hand she hold a mirror , and in the other a comb , and instead of foot she have a beautiful tail like a fish , with which she swim .
The King be strike dumb with astonishment at this unexpected sight ; but as soon a she come within speak distance , she say to him , `` I know how sad you be at lose your Princess and be keep a prisoner by the Fairy of the Desert ; if you like I will help you to escape from this fatal place , where you may otherwise have to drag on a weary existence for thirty year or more . ''
The King of the Gold Mines hardly know what answer to make to this proposal .
Not because he do not wish very much to escape , but he be afraid that this might be only another device by which the Fairy of the Desert be try to deceive him .
As he hesitate the Mermaid , who guess his thought , say to him : `` You may trust me : I be not try to entrap you .
I be so angry with the Yellow Dwarf and the Fairy of the Desert that I be not likely to wish to help them , especially since I constantly see your poor Princess , whose beauty and goodness make me pity her so much ; and I tell you that if you will have confidence in me I will help you to escape . ''
`` I trust you absolutely , '' cry the King , `` and I will do whatever you tell me ; but if you have see my Princess I beg of you to tell me how she be and what be happen to her .
`` We must not waste time in talk , '' say she .
`` Come with me and I will carry you to the Castle of Steel , and we will leave upon this shore a figure so like you that even the Fairy herself will be deceive by it . ''
So say , she quickly collect a bundle of sea-weed , and , blow it three time , she say : `` My friendly sea-weeds , I order you to stay here stretch upon the sand until the Fairy of the Desert come to take you away . ''
And at once the sea-weeds become like the King , who stand look at them in great astonishment , for they be even dress in a coat like his , but they lay there pale and still a the King himself might have lie if one of the great wave have overtake him and throw him senseless upon the shore .
And then the Mermaid catch up the King , and away they swim joyfully together .
`` Now , '' say she , `` I have time to tell you about the Princess .
In spite of the blow which the Fairy of the Desert give her , the Yellow Dwarf compel her to mount behind him upon his terrible Spanish cat ; but she soon faint away with pain and terror , and do not recover till they be within the wall of his frightful Castle of Steel .
Here she be receive by the pretty girl it be possible to find , who have be carry there by the Yellow Dwarf , who hasten to wait upon her and show her every possible attention .
She be lay upon a couch cover with cloth of gold , embroider with pearl as big a nut . ''
`` Ah ! ''
interrupt the King of the Gold Mines , `` if Bellissima forget me , and consent to marry him , I shall break my heart . ''
`` You need not be afraid of that , '' answer the Mermaid , `` the Princess think of no one but you , and the frightful Dwarf can not persuade her to look at him . ''
`` Pray go on with your story , '' say the King .
`` What more be there to tell you ? ''
reply the Mermaid .
`` Bellissima be sit in the wood when you pass , and saw you with the Fairy of the Desert , who be so cleverly disguise that the Princess take her to be pretty than herself ; you may imagine her despair , for she think that you have fall in love with her . ''
`` She believe that I love her ! ''
cry the King .
`` What a fatal mistake !
What be to be do to undeceive her ? ''
`` You know best , '' answer the Mermaid , smile kindly at him .
`` When people be as much in love with one another a you two be , they do n't need advice from anyone else . ''
As she speak they reach the Castle of Steel , the side next the sea be the only one which the Yellow Dwarf have leave unprotected by the dreadful burning wall .
`` I know quite well , '' say the Mermaid , `` that the Princess be sit by the brook-side , just where you saw her a you pass , but a you will have many enemy to fight with before you can reach her , take this sword ; arm with it you may dare any danger , and overcome the great difficulty , only beware of one thing -- that be , never to let it fall from your hand .
Farewell ; now I will wait by that rock , and if you need my help in carry off your beloved Princess I will not fail you , for the Queen , her mother , be my best friend , and it be for her sake that I go to rescue you . ''
So say , she give to the King a sword make from a single diamond , which be more brilliant than the sun .
He could not find word to express his gratitude , but he beg her to believe that he fully appreciate the importance of her gift , and would never forget her help and kindness .
We must now go back to the Fairy of the Desert .
When she find that the King do not return , she hasten out to look for him , and reach the shore , with a hundred of the lady of her train , load with splendid present for him .
Some carry basket full of diamond , others golden cup of wonderful workmanship , and amber , coral , and pearl , others , again , balance upon their head bale of the rich and most beautiful stuff , while the rest bring fruit and flower , and even bird .
But what be the horror of the Fairy , who follow this gay troop , when she saw , stretch upon the sand , the image of the King which the Mermaid have make with the sea-weeds .
Struck with astonishment and sorrow , she utter a terrible cry , and throw herself down beside the pretended King , weeping , and howling , and call upon her eleven sister , who be also fairy , and who come to her assistance .
But they be all take in by the image of the King , for , clever a they be , the Mermaid be still cleverer , and all they could do be to help the Fairy of the Desert to make a wonderful monument over what they think be the grave of the King of the Gold Mines .
But while they be collect jasper and porphyry , agate and marble , gold and bronze , statue and device , to immortalize the King 's memory , he be thank the good Mermaid and beg her still to help him , which she graciously promise to do a she disappear ; and then he set out for the Castle of Steel .
He walk fast , look anxiously round him , and long once more to see his darling Bellissima , but he have not go far before he be surround by four terrible sphinx who would very soon have tear him to piece with their sharp talon if it have not be for the Mermaid 's diamond sword .
For , no sooner have he flash it before their eye than down they fell at his foot quite helpless , and he kill them with one blow .
But he have hardly turn to continue his search when he meet six dragon cover with scale that be hard than iron .
Frightful a this encounter be the King 's courage be unshaken , and by the aid of his wonderful sword he cut them in piece one after the other .
Now he hop his difficulty be over , but at the next turning he be meet by one which he do not know how to overcome .
Four-and-twenty pretty and graceful nymph advance toward him , hold garland of flower , with which they bar the way .
`` Where be you go , Prince ? ''
they say ; `` it be our duty to guard this place , and if we let you pass great misfortune will happen to you and to u .
We beg you not to insist upon go on .
Do you want to kill four-and-twenty girl who have never displease you in any way ? ''
The King do not know what to do or to say .
It go against all his idea a a knight to do anything a lady beg him not to do ; but , a he hesitate , a voice in his ear say : `` Strike !
strike !
and do not spare , or your Princess be lose for ever ! ''
So , without reply to the nymph , he rush forward instantly , break their garland , and scatter them in all direction ; and then go on without further hindrance to the little wood where he have see Bellissima .
She be seat by the brook look pale and weary when he reach her , and he would have throw himself down at her foot , but she draw herself away from him with as much indignation a if he have be the Yellow Dwarf .
`` Ah !
Princess , '' he cry , `` do not be angry with me .
Let me explain everything .
I be not faithless or to blame for what have happen .
I be a miserable wretch who have displease you without be able to help himself . ''
`` Ah ! ''
cry Bellissima , `` do I not see you fly through the air with the lovely be imaginable ?
Was that against your will ? ''
`` Indeed it be , Princess , '' he answer ; `` the wicked Fairy of the Desert , not content with chain me to a rock , carry me off in her chariot to the other end of the earth , where I should even now be a captive but for the unexpected help of a friendly mermaid , who bring me here to rescue you , my Princess , from the unworthy hand that hold you .
Do not refuse the aid of your most faithful lover . ''
So say , he throw himself at her foot and hold her by her robe .
But , ala !
in so do he let fall the magic sword , and the Yellow Dwarf , who be crouch behind a lettuce , no sooner saw it than he spring out and seize it , well know it wonderful power .
The Princess give a cry of terror on see the Dwarf , but this only irritate the little monster ; mutter a few magical word he summon two giant , who bind the King with great chain of iron .
`` Now , '' say the Dwarf , `` I be master of my rival 's fate , but I will give him his life and permission to depart unharmed if you , Princess , will consent to marry me . ''
`` Let me die a thousand time rather , '' cry the unhappy King .
`` Alas ! ''
cry the Princess , `` must you die ?
Could anything be more terrible ? ''
`` That you should marry that little wretch would be far more terrible , '' answer the King .
`` At least , '' continue she , `` let u die together . ''
`` Let me have the satisfaction of die for you , my Princess , '' say he .
`` Oh , no , no ! ''
she cry , turn to the Dwarf ; `` rather than that I will do a you wish . ''
`` Cruel Princess ! ''
say the King , `` would you make my life horrible to me by marry another before my eye ? ''
`` Not so , '' reply the Yellow Dwarf ; `` you be a rival of whom I be too much afraid ; you shall not see our marriage . ''
So say , in spite of Bellissima 's tear and cry , he stab the King to the heart with the diamond sword .
The poor Princess , see her lover lying dead at her foot , could no longer live without him ; she sink down by him and die of a broken heart .
So end these unfortunate lover , whom not even the Mermaid could help , because all the magic power have be lose with the diamond sword .
As to the wicked Dwarf , he prefer to see the Princess dead rather than marry to the King of the Gold Mines ; and the Fairy of the Desert , when she hear of the King 's adventure , pull down the grand monument which she have build , and be so angry at the trick that have be play her that she hat him as much a she have love him before .
The kind Mermaid , grieve at the sad fate of the lover , cause them to be change into two tall palm tree , which stand always side by side , whisper together of their faithful love and caress one another with their interlacing branch .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Madame d'Aulnoy .
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD Once upon a time there live in a certain village a little country girl , the pretty creature be ever see .
Her mother be excessively fond of her ; and her grandmother dot on her still more .
This good woman have make for her a little red riding-hood ; which become the girl so extremely well that everybody call her Little Red Riding-Hood .
One day her mother , have make some custard , say to her : `` Go , my dear , and see how thy grandmamma do , for I hear she have be very ill ; carry her a custard , and this little pot of butter . ''
Little Red Riding-Hood set out immediately to go to her grandmother , who live in another village .
As she be go through the wood , she meet with Gaffer Wolf , who have a very great mind to eat her up , but he dare not , because of some faggot-makers hard by in the forest .
He ask her whither she be go .
The poor child , who do not know that it be dangerous to stay and hear a wolf talk , say to him : `` I be go to see my grandmamma and carry her a custard and a little pot of butter from my mamma . ''
`` Does she live far off ? ''
say the Wolf .
`` Oh !
ay , '' answer Little Red Riding-Hood ; `` it be beyond that mill you see there , at the first house in the village . ''
`` Well , '' say the Wolf , `` and I 'll go and see her too .
I 'll go this way and you go that , and we shall see who will be there soonest . ''
The Wolf begin to run as fast a he could , take the near way , and the little girl go by that farthest about , divert herself in gather nut , run after butterfly , and make nosegay of such little flower a she meet with .
The Wolf be not long before he get to the old woman 's house .
He knock at the door -- tap , tap .
`` Who 's there ? ''
`` Your grandchild , Little Red Riding-Hood , '' reply the Wolf , counterfeit her voice ; `` who have bring you a custard and a little pot of butter send you by mamma . ''
The good grandmother , who be in bed , because she be somewhat ill , cry out : `` Pull the bobbin , and the latch will go up . ''
The Wolf pull the bobbin , and the door open , and then presently he fell upon the good woman and ate her up in a moment , for it be above three day that he have not touch a bit .
He then shut the door and go into the grandmother 's bed , expect Little Red Riding-Hood , who come some time afterward and knock at the door -- tap , tap .
`` Who 's there ? ''
Little Red Riding-Hood , hear the big voice of the Wolf , be at first afraid ; but believe her grandmother have get a cold and be hoarse , answer : '' 'T be your grandchild , Little Red Riding-Hood , who have bring you a custard and a little pot of butter mamma send you . ''
The Wolf cry out to her , soften his voice as much a he could : `` Pull the bobbin , and the latch will go up . ''
Little Red Riding-Hood pull the bobbin , and the door open .
The Wolf , see her come in , say to her , hide himself under the bed-clothes : `` Put the custard and the little pot of butter upon the stool , and come and lie down with me . ''
Little Red Riding-Hood undress herself and go into bed , where , be greatly amaze to see how her grandmother look in her night-clothes , she say to her : `` Grandmamma , what great arm you have get ! ''
`` That be the good to hug thee , my dear . ''
`` Grandmamma , what great leg you have get ! ''
`` That be to run the good , my child . ''
`` Grandmamma , what great ear you have get ! ''
`` That be to hear the good , my child . ''
`` Grandmamma , what great eye you have get ! ''
`` It be to see the good , my child . ''
`` Grandmamma , what great teeth you have get ! ''
`` That be to eat thee up . ''
And , say these word , this wicked wolf fell upon Little Red Riding-Hood , and eat her all up .
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY IN THE WOOD There be formerly a king and a queen , who be so sorry that they have no child ; so sorry that it can not be express .
They go to all the water in the world ; vow , pilgrimage , all way be try , and all to no purpose .
At last , however , the Queen have a daughter .
There be a very fine christening ; and the Princess have for her god-mothers all the fairy they could find in the whole kingdom -LRB- they find seven -RRB- , that every one of them might give her a gift , a be the custom of fairy in those day .
By this mean the Princess have all the perfection imaginable .
After the ceremony of the christening be over , all the company return to the King 's palace , where be prepare a great feast for the fairy .
There be place before every one of them a magnificent cover with a case of massive gold , wherein be a spoon , knife , and fork , all of pure gold set with diamond and ruby .
But a they be all sit down at table they saw come into the hall a very old fairy , whom they have not invite , because it be above fifty year since she have be out of a certain tower , and she be believe to be either dead or enchant .
The King order her a cover , but could not furnish her with a case of gold a the others , because they have only seven make for the seven fairy .
The old Fairy fancy she be slight , and mutter some threat between her teeth .
One of the young fairy who sit by her overheard how she grumble ; and , judge that she might give the little Princess some unlucky gift , go , as soon a they rise from table , and hide herself behind the hanging , that she might speak last , and repair , as much a she could , the evil which the old Fairy might intend .
In the meanwhile all the fairy begin to give their gift to the Princess .
The young give her for gift that she should be the most beautiful person in the world ; the next , that she should have the wit of an angel ; the third , that she should have a wonderful grace in everything she do ; the fourth , that she should dance perfectly well ; the fifth , that she should sing like a nightingale ; and the sixth , that she should play all kind of music to the utmost perfection .
The old Fairy 's turn come next , with a head shake more with spite than age , she say that the Princess should have her hand pierce with a spindle and die of the wound .
This terrible gift make the whole company tremble , and everybody fell a-crying .
At this very instant the young Fairy come out from behind the hanging , and spake these word aloud : `` Assure yourselves , O King and Queen , that your daughter shall not die of this disaster .
It be true , I have no power to undo entirely what my elder have do .
The Princess shall indeed pierce her hand with a spindle ; but , instead of die , she shall only fall into a profound sleep , which shall last a hundred year , at the expiration of which a king 's son shall come and awake her . ''
The King , to avoid the misfortune foretell by the old Fairy , cause immediately proclamation to be make , whereby everybody be forbidden , on pain of death , to spin with a distaff and spindle , or to have so much a any spindle in their house .
About fifteen or sixteen year after , the King and Queen be go to one of their house of pleasure , the young Princess happen one day to divert herself in run up and down the palace ; when go up from one apartment to another , she come into a little room on the top of the tower , where a good old woman , alone , be spin with her spindle .
This good woman have never hear of the King 's proclamation against spindle .
`` What be you do there , goody ? ''
say the Princess .
`` I be spin , my pretty child , '' say the old woman , who do not know who she be .
`` Ha ! ''
say the Princess , `` this be very pretty ; how do you do it ?
Give it to me , that I may see if I can do so . ''
She have no sooner take it into her hand than , whether be very hasty at it , somewhat unhandy , or that the decree of the Fairy have so ordain it , it run into her hand , and she fell down in a swoon .
The good old woman , not know very well what to do in this affair , cry out for help .
People come in from every quarter in great number ; they throw water upon the Princess 's face , unlace her , strike her on the palm of her hand , and rub her temple with Hungary-water ; but nothing would bring her to herself .
And now the King , who come up at the noise , bethink himself of the prediction of the fairy , and , judge very well that this must necessarily come to pass , since the fairy have say it , cause the Princess to be carry into the fine apartment in his palace , and to be lay upon a bed all embroider with gold and silver .
One would have take her for a little angel , she be so very beautiful ; for her swoon away have not diminish one bit of her complexion ; her cheek be carnation , and her lip be coral ; indeed , her eye be shut , but she be hear to breathe softly , which satisfy those about her that she be not dead .
The King command that they should not disturb her , but let her sleep quietly till her hour of awaking be come .
The good Fairy who have save her life by condemn her to sleep a hundred year be in the kingdom of Matakin , twelve thousand league off , when this accident befall the Princess ; but she be instantly inform of it by a little dwarf , who have boot of seven league , that be , boot with which he could tread over seven league of ground in one stride .
The Fairy come away immediately , and she arrive , about an hour after , in a fiery chariot draw by dragon .
The King hand her out of the chariot , and she approve everything he have do , but a she have very great foresight , she think when the Princess should awake she might not know what to do with herself , be all alone in this old palace ; and this be what she do : she touch with her wand everything in the palace -LRB- except the King and Queen -RRB- -- governess , maid of honor , lady of the bedchamber , gentleman , officer , steward , cook , undercooks , scullion , guard , with their beefeater , page , footman ; she likewise touch all the horse which be in the stable , pad as well a others , the great dog in the outward court and pretty little Mopsey too , the Princess 's little spaniel , which lay by her on the bed .
Immediately upon her touch them they all fell asleep , that they might not awake before their mistress and that they might be ready to wait upon her when she want them .
The very spit at the fire , as full a they could hold of partridge and pheasant , do fall asleep also .
All this be do in a moment .
Fairies be not long in do their business .
And now the King and the Queen , have kiss their dear child without wake her , go out of the palace and put forth a proclamation that nobody should dare to come near it .
This , however , be not necessary , for in a quarter of an hour 's time there grow up all round about the park such a vast number of tree , great and small , bush and bramble , twin one within another , that neither man nor beast could pass through ; so that nothing could be see but the very top of the tower of the palace ; and that , too , not unless it be a good way off .
Nobody ; doubt but the Fairy give herein a very extraordinary sample of her art , that the Princess , while she continue sleep , might have nothing to fear from any curious people .
When a hundred year be go and pass the son of the King then reign , and who be of another family from that of the sleep Princess , be go a-hunting on that side of the country , ask : What those tower be which he saw in the middle of a great thick wood ?
Everyone answer accord a they have hear .
Some say : That it be a ruinous old castle , haunt by spirit .
Others , That all the sorcerer and witch of the country keep there their sabbath or night 's meeting .
The common opinion be : That an ogre live there , and that he carry thither all the little child he could catch , that he might eat them up at his leisure , without anybody be able to follow him , a have himself only the power to pass through the wood .
The Prince be at a stand , not know what to believe , when a very good countryman spake to him thus : `` May it please your royal highness , it be now about fifty year since I hear from my father , who hear my grandfather say , that there be then in this castle a princess , the most beautiful be ever see ; that she must sleep there a hundred year , and should be wake by a king 's son , for whom she be reserve . ''
The young Prince be all on fire at these word , believing , without weigh the matter , that he could put an end to this rare adventure ; and , push on by love and honor , resolve that moment to look into it .
Scarce have he advance toward the wood when all the great tree , the bush , and bramble give way of themselves to let him pass through ; he walk up to the castle which he saw at the end of a large avenue which he go into ; and what a little surprised him be that he saw none of his people could follow him , because the tree close again as soon a he have pass through them .
However , he do not cease from continue his way ; a young and amorous prince be always valiant .
He come into a spacious outward court , where everything he saw might have freeze the most fearless person with horror .
There reign all over a most frightful silence ; the image of death everywhere show itself , and there be nothing to be see but stretched-out body of men and animal , all seem to be dead .
He , however , very well know , by the ruby face and pimpled nose of the beefeater , that they be only asleep ; and their goblet , wherein still remain some drop of wine , show plainly that they fell asleep in their cup .
He then cross a court pave with marble , go up the stair and come into the guard chamber , where guard be stand in their rank , with their musket upon their shoulder , and snore as loud a they could .
After that he go through several room full of gentleman and lady , all asleep , some standing , others sit .
At last he come into a chamber all gild with gold , where he saw upon a bed , the curtain of which be all open , the fine sight be ever behold -- a princess , who appear to be about fifteen or sixteen year of age , and whose bright and , in a manner , resplendent beauty , have somewhat in it divine .
He approach with trembling and admiration , and fell down before her upon his knee .
And now , a the enchantment be at an end , the Princess awake , and look on him with eye more tender than the first view might seem to admit of : `` Is it you , my Prince ? ''
say she to him .
`` You have wait a long while . ''
The Prince , charm with these word , and much more with the manner in which they be speak , know not how to show his joy and gratitude ; he assure her that he love her good than he do himself ; their discourse be not well connect , they do weep more than talk -- little eloquence , a great deal of love .
He be more at a loss than she , and we need not wonder at it ; she have time to think on what to say to him ; for it be very probable -LRB- though history mention nothing of it -RRB- that the good Fairy , during so long a sleep , have give her very agreeable dream .
In short , they talk four hour together , and yet they say not half what they have to say .
In the meanwhile all the palace awake ; everyone think upon their particular business , and a all of them be not in love they be ready to die for hunger .
The chief lady of honor , be a sharp set a other folk , grow very impatient , and tell the Princess aloud that supper be serve up .
The Prince help the Princess to rise ; she be entirely dress , and very magnificently , but his royal highness take care not to tell her that she be dress like his great-grandmother , and have a point band peep over a high collar ; she look not a bit less charming and beautiful for all that .
They go into the great hall of looking-glasses , where they sup , and be serve by the Princess 's officer , the violin and hautboys play old tune , but very excellent , though it be now above a hundred year since they have play ; and after supper , without lose any time , the lord almoner marry them in the chapel of the castle , and the chief lady of honor draw the curtain .
They have but very little sleep -- the Princess have no occasion ; and the Prince leave her next morning to return to the city , where his father must need have be in pain for him .
The Prince tell him : That he lose his way in the forest a he be hunt , and that he have lie in the cottage of a charcoal-burner , who give him cheese and brown bread .
The King , his father , who be a good man , believe him ; but his mother could not be persuade it be true ; and see that he go almost every day a-hunting , and that he always have some excuse ready for so do , though he have lie out three or four night together , she begin to suspect that he be marry , for he live with the Princess above two whole year , and have by her two child , the eldest of which , who be a daughter , be name Morning , and the young , who be a son , they call Day , because he be a great deal handsomer and more beautiful than his sister .
The Queen speak several time to her son , to inform herself after what manner he do pass his time , and that in this he ought in duty to satisfy her .
But he never dare to trust her with his secret ; he fear her , though he love her , for she be of the race of the Ogres , and the King would never have marry her have it not be for her vast rich ; it be even whisper about the Court that she have Ogreish inclination , and that , whenever she saw little child pass by , she have all the difficulty in the world to avoid fall upon them .
And so the Prince would never tell her one word .
But when the King be dead , which happen about two year afterward , and he saw himself lord and master , he openly declare his marriage ; and he go in great ceremony to conduct his Queen to the palace .
They make a magnificent entry into the capital city , she rid between her two child .
Soon after the King go to make war with the Emperor Contalabutte , his neighbor .
He leave the government of the kingdom to the Queen his mother , and earnestly recommend to her care his wife and child .
He be oblige to continue his expedition all the summer , and as soon a he depart the Queen-mother send her daughter-in-law to a country house among the wood , that she might with the more ease gratify her horrible longing .
Some few day afterward she go thither herself , and say to her clerk of the kitchen : `` I have a mind to eat little Morning for my dinner to-morrow . ''
`` Ah !
madam , '' cry the clerk of the kitchen .
`` I will have it so , '' reply the Queen -LRB- and this she speak in the tone of an Ogress who have a strong desire to eat fresh meat -RRB- , `` and will eat her with a sauce Robert . ''
The poor man , know very well that he must not play trick with Ogresses , take his great knife and go up into little Morning 's chamber .
She be then four year old , and come up to him jump and laugh , to take him about the neck , and ask him for some sugar-candy .
Upon which he begin to weep , the great knife fell out of his hand , and he go into the back yard , and kill a little lamb , and dress it with such good sauce that his mistress assure him that she have never eat anything so good in her life .
He have at the same time take up little Morning , and carry her to his wife , to conceal her in the lodging he have at the bottom of the courtyard .
About eight day afterward the wicked Queen say to the clerk of the kitchen , `` I will sup on little Day . ''
He answer not a word , be resolve to cheat her a he have do before .
He go to find out little Day , and saw him with a little foil in his hand , with which he be fence with a great monkey , the child be then only three year of age .
He take him up in his arm and carry him to his wife , that she might conceal him in her chamber along with his sister , and in the room of little Day cook up a young kid , very tender , which the Ogress find to be wonderfully good .
This be hitherto all mighty well ; but one evening this wicked Queen say to her clerk of the kitchen : `` I will eat the Queen with the same sauce I have with her child . ''
It be now that the poor clerk of the kitchen despair of be able to deceive her .
The young Queen be turn of twenty , not reckon the hundred year she have be asleep ; and how to find in the yard a beast so firm be what puzzle him .
He take then a resolution , that he might save his own life , to cut the Queen 's throat ; and go up into her chamber , with intent to do it at once , he put himself into a great fury a he could possibly , and come into the young Queen 's room with his dagger in his hand .
He would not , however , surprise her , but tell her , with a great deal of respect , the order he have receive from the Queen-mother .
`` Do it ; do it '' -LRB- say she , stretch out her neck -RRB- .
`` Execute your order , and then I shall go and see my child , my poor child , whom I so much and so tenderly love . ''
For she think them dead ever since they have be take away without her knowledge .
`` No , no , madam '' -LRB- cry the poor clerk of the kitchen , all in tear -RRB- ; `` you shall not die , and yet you shall see your child again ; but then you must go home with me to my lodging , where I have conceal them , and I shall deceive the Queen once more , by give her in your stead a young hind . ''
Upon this he forthwith conduct her to his chamber , where , leave her to embrace her child , and cry along with them , he go and dress a young hind , which the Queen have for her supper , and devour it with the same appetite a if it have be the young Queen .
Exceedingly be she delight with her cruelty , and she have invent a story to tell the King , at his return , how the mad wolf have eat up the Queen his wife and her two child .
One evening , a she be , accord to her custom , ramble round about the court and yard of the palace to see if she could smell any fresh meat , she hear , in a ground room , little Day cry , for his mamma be go to whip him , because he have be naughty ; and she hear , at the same time , little Morning beg pardon for her brother .
The Ogress presently know the voice of the Queen and her child , and be quite mad that she have be thus deceive , she command next morning , by break of day -LRB- with a most horrible voice , which make everybody tremble -RRB- , that they should bring into the middle of the great court a large tub , which she cause to be fill with toad , viper , snake , and all sort of serpent , in order to have throw into it the Queen and her child , the clerk of the kitchen , his wife and maid ; all whom she have give order should be bring thither with their hand tie behind them .
They be bring out accordingly , and the executioner be just go to throw them into the tub , when the King -LRB- who be not so soon expect -RRB- enter the court on horseback -LRB- for he come post -RRB- and ask , with the utmost astonishment , what be the meaning of that horrible spectacle .
No one dare to tell him , when the Ogress , all enrage to see what have happen , throw herself head foremost into the tub , and be instantly devour by the ugly creatures she have order to be throw into it for others .
The King could not but be very sorry , for she be his mother ; but he soon comfort himself with his beautiful wife and his pretty child .
CINDERELLA , OR THE LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER Once there be a gentleman who marry , for his second wife , the proudest and most haughty woman that be ever see .
She have , by a former husband , two daughter of her own humor , who be , indeed , exactly like her in all thing .
He have likewise , by another wife , a young daughter , but of unparalleled goodness and sweetness of temper , which she take from her mother , who be the best creature in the world .
No sooner be the ceremony of the wedding over but the mother-in-law begin to show herself in her true color .
She could not bear the good quality of this pretty girl , and the less because they make her own daughter appear the more odious .
She employ her in the mean work of the house : she scour the dish , table , etc . , and scrub madam 's chamber , and those of miss , her daughter ; she lay up in a sorry garret , upon a wretched straw bed , while her sister lay in fine room , with floor all inlaid , upon bed of the very new fashion , and where they have looking-glasses so large that they might see themselves at their full length from head to foot .
The poor girl bore all patiently , and dare not tell her father , who would have rattle her off ; for his wife govern him entirely .
When she have do her work , she use to go into the chimney-corner , and sit down among cinder and ash , which make her commonly be call Cinderwench ; but the young , who be not so rude and uncivil a the eldest , call her Cinderella .
However , Cinderella , notwithstanding her mean apparel , be a hundred time handsome than her sister , though they be always dress very richly .
It happen that the King 's son give a ball , and invite all person of fashion to it .
Our young miss be also invite , for they cut a very grand figure among the quality .
They be mightily delight at this invitation , and wonderfully busy in choose out such gown , petticoat , and head-clothes a might become them .
This be a new trouble to Cinderella ; for it be she who iron her sister ' linen , and plait their ruffle ; they talk all day long of nothing but how they should be dress .
`` For my part , '' say the eldest , `` I will wear my red velvet suit with French trimming . ''
`` And I , '' say the young , `` shall have my usual petticoat ; but then , to make amends for that , I will put on my gold-flowered manteau , and my diamond stomacher , which be far from be the most ordinary one in the world . ''
They send for the best tire-woman they could get to make up their head-dresses and adjust their double pinner , and they have their red brush and patch from Mademoiselle de la Poche .
Cinderella be likewise call up to them to be consult in all these matter , for she have excellent notion , and advise them always for the best , nay , and offer her service to dress their head , which they be very willing she should do .
As she be do this , they say to her : `` Cinderella , would you not be glad to go to the ball ? ''
`` Alas ! ''
say she , `` you only jeer me ; it be not for such a I be to go thither . ''
`` Thou art in the right of it , '' reply they ; `` it would make the people laugh to see a Cinderwench at a ball . ''
Anyone but Cinderella would have dress their head awry , but she be very good , and dress them perfectly well They be almost two day without eating , so much be they transport with joy .
They break above a dozen lace in try to be lace up close , that they might have a fine slender shape , and they be continually at their looking-glass .
At last the happy day come ; they go to Court , and Cinderella follow them with her eye as long a she could , and when she have lose sight of them , she fell a-crying .
Her godmother , who saw her all in tear , ask her what be the matter .
`` I wish I could -- I wish I could -- '' ; she be not able to speak the rest , be interrupt by her tear and sobbing .
This godmother of hers , who be a fairy , say to her , `` Thou wishest thou couldst go to the ball ; be it not so ? ''
`` Y -- e , '' cry Cinderella , with a great sigh .
`` Well , '' say her godmother , `` be but a good girl , and I will contrive that thou shalt go . ''
Then she take her into her chamber , and say to her , `` Run into the garden , and bring me a pumpkin . ''
Cinderella go immediately to gather the fine she could get , and bring it to her godmother , not be able to imagine how this pumpkin could make her go to the ball .
Her godmother scoop out all the inside of it , have leave nothing but the rind ; which do , she strike it with her wand , and the pumpkin be instantly turn into a fine coach , gild all over with gold .
She then go to look into her mouse-trap , where she find six mouse , all alive , and order Cinderella to lift up a little the trapdoor , when , give each mouse , a it go out , a little tap with her wand , the mouse be that moment turn into a fine horse , which altogether make a very fine set of six horse of a beautiful mouse-colored dapple-gray .
Being at a loss for a coachman , `` I will go and see , '' say Cinderella , `` if there be never a rat in the rat-trap -- we may make a coachman of him . ''
`` Thou art in the right , '' reply her godmother ; `` go and look . ''
Cinderella bring the trap to her , and in it there be three huge rat .
The fairy make choice of one of the three which have the large beard , and , have touch him with her wand , he be turn into a fat , jolly coachman , who have the smart whisker eye ever behold .
After that , she say to her : `` Go again into the garden , and you will find six lizard behind the watering-pot , bring them to me . ''
She have no sooner do so but her godmother turn them into six footman , who skip up immediately behind the coach , with their livery all bedaub with gold and silver , and clung a close behind each other a if they have do nothing else their whole life .
The Fairy then say to Cinderella : `` Well , you see here an equipage fit to go to the ball with ; be you not please with it ? ''
`` Oh !
yes , '' cry she ; `` but must I go thither a I be , in these nasty rag ? ''
Her godmother only just touch her with her wand , and , at the same instant , her clothes be turn into cloth of gold and silver , all beset with jewel .
This do , she give her a pair of glass slipper , the prettiest in the whole world .
Being thus deck out , she get up into her coach ; but her godmother , above all thing , command her not to stay till after midnight , tell her , at the same time , that if she stay one moment longer , the coach would be a pumpkin again , her horse mouse , her coachman a rat , her footman lizard , and her clothes become just a they be before .
She promise her godmother she would not fail of leave the ball before midnight ; and then away she drive , scarce able to contain herself for joy .
The King 's son who be tell that a great princess , whom nobody know , be come , run out to receive her ; he give her his hand a she alight out of the coach , and lead her into the ball , among all the company .
There be immediately a profound silence , they leave off dancing , and the violin cease to play , so attentive be everyone to contemplate the singular beauty of the unknown new-comer .
Nothing be then heard but a confused noise of : `` Ha !
how handsome she be !
Ha !
how handsome she be ! ''
The King himself , old a he be , could not help watch her , and tell the Queen softly that it be a long time since he have see so beautiful and lovely a creature .
All the lady be busy in consider her clothes and headdress , that they might have some make next day after the same pattern , provide they could meet with such fine material and a able hand to make them .
The King 's son conduct her to the most honorable seat , and afterward take her out to dance with him ; she dance so very gracefully that they all more and more admired her .
A fine collation be serve up , whereof the young prince ate not a morsel , so intently be he busy in gaze on her .
She go and sit down by her sister , show them a thousand civility , give them part of the orange and citron which the Prince have present her with , which very much surprise them , for they do not know her .
While Cinderella be thus amuse her sister , she hear the clock strike eleven and three-quarters , whereupon she immediately make a courtesy to the company and hasted away as fast a she could .
When she get home she run to seek out her godmother , and , after have thank her , she say she could not but heartily wish she might go next day to the ball , because the King 's son have desire her .
As she be eagerly tell her godmother whatever have pass at the ball , her two sister knock at the door , which Cinderella run and open .
`` How long you have stay ! ''
cry she , gap , rub her eye and stretch herself a if she have be just wake out of her sleep ; she have not , however , any manner of inclination to sleep since they go from home .
`` If thou hadst be at the ball , '' say one of her sister , `` thou wouldst not have be tire with it .
There come thither the fine princess , the most beautiful ever be see with mortal eye ; she show u a thousand civility , and give u orange and citron . ''
Cinderella seem very indifferent in the matter ; indeed , she ask them the name of that princess ; but they tell her they do not know it , and that the King 's son be very uneasy on her account and would give all the world to know who she be .
At this Cinderella , smile , reply : `` She must , then , be very beautiful indeed ; how happy you have be !
Could not I see her ?
Ah !
dear Miss Charlotte , do lend me your yellow suit of clothes which you wear every day . ''
`` Ay , to be sure ! ''
cry Miss Charlotte ; `` lend my clothes to such a dirty Cinderwench a thou art !
I should be a fool . ''
Cinderella , indeed , expect well such answer , and be very glad of the refusal ; for she would have be sadly put to it if her sister have lend her what she ask for jestingly .
The next day the two sister be at the ball , and so be Cinderella , but dress more magnificently than before .
The King 's son be always by her , and never cease his compliment and kind speech to her ; to whom all this be so far from be tiresome that she quite forget what her godmother have recommend to her ; so that she , at last , count the clock strike twelve when she take it to be no more than eleven ; she then rise up and flee , as nimble a a deer .
The Prince follow , but could not overtake her .
She leave behind one of her glass slipper , which the Prince take up most carefully .
She get home but quite out of breath , and in her nasty old clothes , have nothing leave her of all her finery but one of the little slipper , fellow to that she drop .
The guard at the palace gate be ask : If they have not see a princess go out .
Who say : They have see nobody go out but a young girl , very meanly dress , and who have more the air of a poor country wench than a gentlewoman .
When the two sister return from the ball Cinderella ask them : If they have be well divert , and if the fine lady have be there .
They tell her : Yes , but that she hurry away immediately when it strike twelve , and with so much haste that she drop one of her little glass slipper , the prettiest in the world , which the King 's son have take up ; that he have do nothing but look at her all the time at the ball , and that most certainly he be very much in love with the beautiful person who own the glass slipper .
What they say be very true ; for a few day after the King 's son cause it to be proclaim , by sound of trumpet , that he would marry her whose foot the slipper would just fit .
They whom he employ begin to try it upon the princess , then the duchess and all the Court , but in vain ; it be bring to the two sister , who do all they possibly could to thrust their foot into the slipper , but they could not effect it .
Cinderella , who saw all this , and know her slipper , say to them , laugh : `` Let me see if it will not fit me . ''
Her sister burst out a-laughing , and begin to banter her .
The gentleman who be send to try the slipper look earnestly at Cinderella , and , find her very handsome , say : It be but just that she should try , and that he have order to let everyone make trial .
He oblige Cinderella to sit down , and , put the slipper to her foot , he find it go on very easily , and fit her a if it have be make of wax .
The astonishment her two sister be in be excessively great , but still abundantly great when Cinderella pull out of her pocket the other slipper , and put it on her foot .
Thereupon , in come her godmother , who , have touch with her wand Cinderella 's clothes , make them rich and more magnificent than any of those she have before .
And now her two sister find her to be that fine , beautiful lady whom they have see at the ball .
They throw themselves at her foot to beg pardon for all the ill-treatment they have make her undergo .
Cinderella take them up , and , a she embrace them , cry : That she forgive them with all her heart , and desire them always to love her .
She be conduct to the young prince , dress a she be ; he think her more charming than ever , and , a few day after , marry her .
Cinderella , who be no less good than beautiful , give her two sister lodging in the palace , and that very same day match them with two great lord of the Court .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Charles Perrault .
ALADDIN AND THE WONDERFUL LAMP There once live a poor tailor , who have a son call Aladdin , a careless , idle boy who would do nothing but play ball all day long in the street with little idle boy like himself .
This so grieve the father that he die ; yet , in spite of his mother 's tear and prayer , Aladdin do not mend his way .
One day , when he be play in the street a usual , a stranger ask him his age , and if he be not the son of Mustapha the tailor .
`` I be , sir , '' reply Aladdin ; `` but he die a long while ago . ''
On this the stranger , who be a famous African magician , fell on his neck and kiss him , say , `` I be your uncle , and know you from your likeness to my brother .
Go to your mother and tell her I be come . ''
Aladdin run home and tell his mother of his newly find uncle .
`` Indeed , child , '' she say , `` your father have a brother , but I always think he be dead . ''
However , she prepare supper , and bid Aladdin seek his uncle , who come laden with wine and fruit .
He presently fell down and kiss the place where Mustapha use to sit , bid Aladdin 's mother not to be surprise at not have see him before , a he have be forty year out of the country .
He then turn to Aladdin , and ask him his trade , at which the boy hang his head , while his mother burst into tear .
On learn that Aladdin be idle and would learn no trade , he offer to take a shop for him and stock it with merchandise .
Next day he buy Aladdin a fine suit of clothes and take him all over the city , show him the sight , and bring him home at nightfall to his mother , who be overjoy to see her son so fine .
The next day the magician lead Aladdin into some beautiful garden a long way outside the city gate .
They sit down by a fountain and the magician pull a cake from his girdle , which he divide between them .
They then journey onward till they almost reach the mountain .
Aladdin be so tired that he beg to go back , but the magician beguile him with pleasant story , and lead him on in spite of himself .
At last they come to two mountain divide by a narrow valley .
`` We will go no farther , '' say the false uncle .
`` I will show you something wonderful ; only do you gather up stick while I kindle a fire . ''
When it be light the magician threw on it a powder he have about him , at the same time say some magical word .
The earth tremble a little and open in front of them , disclose a square flat stone with a brass ring in the middle to raise it by .
Aladdin try to run away , but the magician caught him and give him a blow that knock him down .
`` What have I do , uncle ? ''
he say piteously ; whereupon the magician say more kindly : `` Fear nothing , but obey me .
Beneath this stone lie a treasure which be to be yours , and no one else may touch it , so you must do exactly a I tell you . ''
At the word treasure Aladdin forget his fear , and grasp the ring a he be tell , say the name of his father and grandfather .
The stone come up quite easily , and some step appear .
`` Go down , '' say the magician ; `` at the foot of those step you will find an open door lead into three large hall .
Tuck up your gown and go through them without touch anything , or you will die instantly .
These hall lead into a garden of fine fruit tree .
Walk on until you come to a niche in a terrace where stand a lighted lamp .
Pour out the oil it contain , and bring it to me . ''
He draw a ring from his finger and give it to Aladdin , bid him prosper .
Aladdin find everything a the magician have say , gather some fruit off the tree , and , have get the lamp , arrive at the mouth of the cave .
The magician cry out in a great hurry : `` Make haste and give me the lamp . ''
This Aladdin refuse to do until he be out of the cave .
The magician flew into a terrible passion , and throw some more powder on to the fire , he say something , and the stone roll back into it place .
The magician left Persia for ever , which plainly show that he be no uncle of Aladdin 's , but a cunning magician , who have read in his magic book of a wonderful lamp , which would make him the most powerful man in the world .
Though he alone know where to find it , he could only receive it from the hand of another .
He have pick out the foolish Aladdin for this purpose , intend to get the lamp and kill him afterward .
For two day Aladdin remain in the dark , cry and lament .
At last he clasp his hand in prayer , and in so do rub the ring , which the magician have forget to take from him .
Immediately an enormous and frightful genie rise out of the earth , say : `` What wouldst thou with me ?
I be the Slave of the Ring , and will obey thee in all thing . ''
Aladdin fearlessly reply : `` Deliver me from this place ! ''
whereupon the earth open , and he find himself outside .
As soon a his eye could bear the light he go home , but faint on the threshold .
When he come to himself he tell his mother what have pass , and show her the lamp and the fruit he have gather in the garden , which be , in reality , precious stone .
He then ask for some food .
`` Alas !
child , '' she say , `` I have nothing in the house , but I have spin a little cotton and will go and sell it . ''
Aladdin bid her keep her cotton , for he would sell the lamp instead .
As it be very dirty she begin to rub it , that it might fetch a high price .
Instantly a hideous genie appear , and ask what she would have .
She faint away , but Aladdin , snatch the lamp , say boldly : `` Fetch me something to eat ! ''
The genie return with a silver bowl , twelve silver plate contain rich meat , two silver cup , and two bottle of wine .
Aladdin 's mother , when she come to herself , say : `` Whence come this splendid feast ? ''
`` Ask not , but eat , '' reply Aladdin .
So they sit at breakfast till it be dinner-time , and Aladdin tell his mother about the lamp .
She beg him to sell it , and have nothing to do with devil .
`` No , '' say Aladdin , `` since chance hath make u aware of it virtue , we will use it , and the ring likewise , which I shall always wear on my finger . ''
When they have eat all the genie have bring , Aladdin sell one of the silver plat , and so on until none be leave .
He then have recourse to the genie , who give him another set of plate , and thus they live for many year .
One day Aladdin hear an order from the Sultan proclaim that everyone be to stay at home and close his shutter while the Princess , his daughter , go to and from the bath .
Aladdin be seize by a desire to see her face , which be very difficult , a she always go veiled .
He hide himself behind the door of the bath , and peep through a chink .
The Princess lift her veil a she go in , and look so beautiful that Aladdin fell in love with her at first sight .
He go home so change that his mother be frighten .
He tell her he love the Princess so deeply that he could not live without her , and meant to ask her in marriage of her father .
His mother , on hear this , burst out laughing , but Aladdin at last prevailed upon her to go before the Sultan and carry his request .
She fetch a napkin and lay in it the magic fruit from the enchant garden , which sparkle and shone like the most beautiful jewel .
She take these with her to please the Sultan , and set out , trust in the lamp .
The Grand Vizier and the lord of council have just go in a she enter the hall and place herself in front of the Sultan .
He , however , take no notice of her .
She go every day for a week , and stand in the same place .
When the council break up on the sixth day the Sultan say to his Vizier : `` I see a certain woman in the audience-chamber every day carry something in a napkin .
Call her next time , that I may find out what she want . ''
Next day , at a sign from the Vizier , she go up to the foot of the throne and remain kneel till the Sultan say to her : `` Rise , good woman , and tell me what you want . ''
She hesitate , so the Sultan send away all but the Vizier , and bid her speak frankly , promise to forgive her beforehand for anything she might say .
She then tell him of her son 's violent love for the Princess .
`` I pray him to forget her , '' she say , `` but in vain ; he threaten to do some desperate deed if I refuse to go and ask your Majesty for the hand of the Princess .
Now I pray you to forgive not me alone , but my son Aladdin . ''
The Sultan ask her kindly what she have in the napkin , whereupon she unfold the jewel and present them .
He be thunderstruck , and turn to the Vizier say : `` What sayest thou ?
Ought I not to bestow the Princess on one who value her at such a price ? ''
The Vizier , who want her for his own son , beg the Sultan to withhold her for three month , in the course of which he hop his son would contrive to make him a richer present .
The Sultan grant this , and tell Aladdin 's mother that , though he consent to the marriage , she must not appear before him again for three month .
Aladdin wait patiently for nearly three month , but after two have elapse his mother , go into the city to buy oil , find every one rejoicing , and ask what be go on .
`` Do you not know , '' be the answer , `` that the son of the Grand Vizier be to marry the Sultan 's daughter to-night ? ''
Breathless , she run and tell Aladdin , who be overwhelm at first , but presently bethink him of the lamp .
He rub it , and the genie appear , say , `` What be thy will ? ''
Aladdin reply : `` The Sultan , a thou knowest , have break his promise to me , and the Vizier 's son be to have the Princess .
My command be that to-night you bring hither the bride and bridegroom . ''
`` Master , I obey , '' say the genie .
Aladdin then go to his chamber , where , sure enough , at midnight the genie transport the bed contain the Vizier 's son and the Princess .
`` Take this new-married man , '' he say , `` and put him outside in the cold , and return at daybreak . ''
Whereupon the genie take the Vizier 's son out of bed , leave Aladdin with the Princess .
`` Fear nothing , '' Aladdin say to her ; `` you be my wife , promise to me by your unjust father , and no harm shall come to you . ''
The Princess be too frighten to speak , and pass the most miserable night of her life , while Aladdin lay down beside her and slept soundly .
At the appoint hour the genie fetch in the shivering bridegroom , lay him in his place , and transport the bed back to the palace .
Presently the Sultan come to wish his daughter good-morning .
The unhappy Vizier 's son jump up and hide himself , while the Princess would not say a word , and be very sorrowful .
The Sultan send her mother to her , who say : `` How come it , child , that you will not speak to your father ?
What have happen ? ''
The Princess sigh deeply , and at last tell her mother how , during the night , the bed have be carry into some strange house , and what have pass there .
Her mother do not believe her in the least , but bid her rise and consider it an idle dream .
The following night exactly the same thing happen , and next morning , on the Princess 's refusal to speak , the Sultan threaten to cut off her head .
She then confess all , bid him to ask the Vizier 's son if it be not so .
The Sultan tell the Vizier to ask his son , who own the truth , add that , dearly a he love the Princess , he have rather die than go through another such fearful night , and wish to be separate from her .
His wish be grant , and there be an end to feasting and rejoicing .
When the three month be over , Aladdin send his mother to remind the Sultan of his promise .
She stand in the same place a before , and the Sultan , who have forget Aladdin , at once remember him , and send for her .
On see her poverty the Sultan felt less inclined than ever to keep his word , and ask his Vizier 's advice , who counsel him to set so high a value on the Princess that no man living could come up to it .
The Sultan then turn to Aladdin 's mother , say : `` Good woman , a Sultan must remember his promise , and I will remember mine , but your son must first send me forty basin of gold brimful of jewel , carry by forty black slave , lead by a many white one , splendidly dress .
Tell him that I await his answer . ''
The mother of Aladdin bow low and go home , think all be lose .
She give Aladdin the message , add : `` He may wait long enough for your answer ! ''
`` Not so long , mother , a you think , '' her son reply .
`` I would do a great deal more than that for the Princess . ''
He summon the genie , and in a few moment the eighty slave arrive , and fill up the small house and garden .
Aladdin make them set out to the palace , two and two , follow by his mother .
They be so richly dress , with such splendid jewel in their girdle , that everyone crowd to see them and the basin of gold they carry on their head .
They enter the palace , and , after kneel before the Sultan , stand in a half-circle round the throne with their arm cross , while Aladdin 's mother present them to the Sultan .
He hesitate no longer , but say : `` Good woman , return and tell your son that I wait for him with open arm . ''
She lose no time in tell Aladdin , bid him make haste .
But Aladdin first call the genie .
`` I want a scented bath , '' he say , `` a richly embroidered habit , a horse surpass the Sultan 's , and twenty slave to attend me .
Besides this , six slave , beautifully dress , to wait on my mother ; and lastly , ten thousand piece of gold in ten purse . ''
No sooner say than do .
Aladdin mount his horse and pass through the street , the slave strew gold a they go .
Those who have play with him in his childhood know him not , he have grow so handsome .
When the Sultan saw him he come down from his throne , embrace him , and lead him into a hall where a feast be spread , intend to marry him to the Princess that very day .
But Aladdin refuse , say , `` I must build a palace fit for her , '' and take his leave .
Once home , he say to the genie : `` Build me a palace of the fine marble , set with jasper , agate , and other precious stone .
In the middle you shall build me a large hall with a dome , it four wall of massy gold and silver , each have six window , whose lattice , all except one which be to be leave unfinished , must be set with diamond and ruby .
There must be stable and horse and groom and slave ; go and see about it ! ''
The palace be finish by the next day , and the genie carry him there and show him all his order faithfully carry out , even to the laying of a velvet carpet from Aladdin 's palace to the Sultan 's .
Aladdin 's mother then dress herself carefully , and walk to the palace with her slave , while he follow her on horseback .
The Sultan send musician with trumpet and cymbal to meet them , so that the air resound with music and cheer .
She be take to the Princess , who salute her and treat her with great honor .
At night the Princess say good-by to her father , and set out on the carpet for Aladdin 's palace , with his mother at her side , and follow by the hundred slave .
She be charm at the sight of Aladdin , who run to receive her .
`` Princess , '' he say , `` blame your beauty for my boldness if I have displease you . ''
She tell him that , have see him , she willingly obey her father in this matter .
After the wedding have take place Aladdin lead her into the hall , where a feast be spread , and she sup with him , after which they dance till midnight .
Next day Aladdin invite the Sultan to see the palace .
On enter the hall with the four-and-twenty window , with their ruby , diamond , and emerald , he cry : `` It be a world 's wonder !
There be only one thing that surprise me .
Was it by accident that one window be leave unfinished ? ''
`` No , sir , by design , '' return Aladdin .
`` I wish your Majesty to have the glory of finish this palace . ''
The Sultan be pleased , and send for the best jeweler in the city .
He show them the unfinished window , and bid them fit it up like the others .
`` Sir , '' reply their spokesman , `` we can not find jewel enough . ''
The Sultan have his own fetched , which they soon use , but to no purpose , for in a month 's time the work be not half do .
Aladdin , know that their task be vain , bid them undo their work and carry the jewel back , and the genie finish the window at his command .
The Sultan be surprise to receive his jewel again , and visit Aladdin , who show him the window finish .
The Sultan embrace him , the envious Vizier meanwhile hint that it be the work of enchantment .
Aladdin have win the heart of the people by his gentle bearing .
He be make captain of the Sultan 's army , and win several battle for him , but remain modest and courteous a before , and live thus in peace and content for several year .
But far away in Africa the magician remember Aladdin , and by his magic art discover that Aladdin , instead of perish miserably in the cave , have escape , and have marry a princess , with whom he be live in great honor and wealth .
He know that the poor tailor 's son could only have accomplish this by mean of the lamp , and travel night and day until he reach the capital of China , bent on Aladdin 's ruin .
As he pass through the town he hear people talk everywhere about a marvellous palace .
`` Forgive my ignorance , '' he ask , `` what be this palace you speak Of ? ''
`` Have you not hear of Prince Aladdin 's palace , '' be the reply , `` the great wonder of the world ?
I will direct you if you have a mind to see it . ''
The magician thank him who speak , and have see the palace , know that it have be raise by the Genie of the Lamp , and become half mad with rage .
He determine to get hold of the lamp , and again plunge Aladdin into the deep poverty .
Unluckily , Aladdin have go a-hunting for eight day , which give the magician plenty of time .
He buy a dozen copper lamp , put them into a basket , and go to the palace , cry : `` New lamp for old ! ''
follow by a jeering crowd .
The Princess , sit in the hall of four-and-twenty window , send a slave to find out what the noise be about , who come back laugh , so that the Princess scold her .
`` Madam , '' reply the slave , `` who can help laugh to see an old fool offering to exchange fine new lamp for old one ? ''
Another slave , hear this , say : `` There be an old one on the cornice there which he can have . ''
Now this be the magic lamp , which Aladdin have leave there , a he could not take it out hunt with him .
The Princess , not know it value , laughingly bid the slave take it and make the exchange .
She go and say to the magician : `` Give me a new lamp for this . ''
He snatch it and bid the slave take her choice , amid the jeer of the crowd .
Little he care , but leave off cry his lamp , and go out of the city gate to a lonely place , where he remain till nightfall , when he pull out the lamp and rub it .
The genie appear , and at the magician 's command carry him , together with the palace and the Princess in it , to a lonely place in Africa .
Next morning the Sultan look out of the window toward Aladdin 's palace and rub his eye , for it be go .
He send for the Vizier and ask what have become of the palace .
The Vizier look out too , and be lose in astonishment .
He again put it down to enchantment , and this time the Sultan believe him , and send thirty men on horseback to fetch Aladdin in chain .
They meet him rid home , bind him , and force him to go with them on foot .
The people , however , who love him , follow , arm , to see that he come to no harm .
He be carry before the Sultan , who order the executioner to cut off his head .
The executioner make Aladdin kneel down , bandage his eye , and raise his scimitar to strike .
At that instant the Vizier , who saw that the crowd have force their way into the courtyard and be scale the wall to rescue Aladdin , call to the executioner to stay his hand .
The people , indeed , look so threaten that the Sultan give way and order Aladdin to be unbound , and pardon him in the sight of the crowd .
Aladdin now beg to know what he have do .
`` False wretch ! ''
say the Sultan , `` come thither , '' and show him from the window the place where his palace have stand .
Aladdin be so amazed that he could not say a word .
`` Where be my palace and my daughter ? ''
demand the Sultan .
`` For the first I be not so deeply concerned , but my daughter I must have , and you must find her or lose your head . ''
Aladdin beg for forty day in which to find her , promising , if he fail , to return and suffer death at the Sultan 's pleasure .
His prayer be grant , and he go forth sadly from the Sultan 's presence .
For three day he wander about like a madman , ask everyone what have become of his palace , but they only laugh and pity him .
He come to the bank of a river , and kneel down to say his prayer before throw himself in .
In so do he rub the magic ring he still wear .
The genie he have see in the cave appear , and ask his will .
`` Save my life , genie , '' say Aladdin , `` bring my palace back . ''
`` That be not in my power , '' say the genie ; `` I be only the Slave of the Ring ; you must ask him of the lamp . ''
`` Even so , '' say Aladdin , `` but thou canst take me to the palace , and set me down under my dear wife 's window . ''
He at once find himself in Africa , under the window of the Princess , and fell asleep out of sheer weariness .
He be awaken by the singing of the bird , and his heart be light .
He saw plainly that all his misfortune be owe to the loss of the lamp , and vainly wonder who have rob him of it .
That morning the Princess rise early than she have do since she have be carry into Africa by the magician , whose company she be force to endure once a day .
She , however , treat him so harshly that he dare not live there altogether .
As she be dress , one of her woman look out and saw Aladdin .
The Princess ran and open the window , and at the noise she make Aladdin look up .
She call to him to come to her , and great be the joy of these lover at see each other again .
After he have kiss her Aladdin say : `` I beg of you , Princess , in God 's name , before we speak of anything else , for your own sake and mine , tell me that have become of an old lamp I leave on the cornice in the hall of four-and-twenty window , when I go a-hunting . ''
`` Alas ! ''
she say , `` I be the innocent cause of our sorrow , '' and tell him of the exchange of the lamp .
`` Now I know , '' cry Aladdin , `` that we have to thank the African magician for this !
Where be the lamp ? ''
`` He carry it about with him , '' say the Princess .
`` I know , for he pull it out of his breast to show me .
He wish me to break my faith with you and marry him , say that you be behead by my father 's command .
He be for ever speak ill of you but I only reply by my tear .
If I persist , I doubt not but he will use violence . ''
Aladdin comfort her , and leave her for a while .
He change clothes with the first person he meet in the town , and have buy a certain powder , return to the Princess , who let him in by a little side door .
`` Put on your most beautiful dress , '' he say to her `` and receive the magician with smile , lead him to believe that you have forget me .
Invite him to sup with you , and say you wish to taste the wine of his country .
He will go for some and while he be go I will tell you what to do . ''
She listen carefully to Aladdin and when he leave she array herself gaily for the first time since she leave China .
She put on a girdle and head-dress of diamond , and , see in a glass that she be more beautiful than ever , receive the magician , say , to his great amazement : `` I have make up my mind that Aladdin be dead , and that all my tear will not bring him back to me , so I be resolve to mourn no more , and have therefore invite you to sup with me ; but I be tire of the wine of China , and would fain taste those of Africa . ''
The magician flew to his cellar , and the Princess put the powder Aladdin have give her in her cup .
When he return she ask him to drink her health in the wine of Africa , hand him her cup in exchange for his , a a sign she be reconcile to him .
Before drink the magician make her a speech in praise of her beauty , but the Princess cut him short , say : `` Let u drink first , and you shall say what you will afterward . ''
She set her cup to her lip and keep it there , while the magician drain his to the dreg and fell back lifeless .
The Princess then open the door to Aladdin , and fling her arm round his neck ; but Aladdin put her away , bid her leave him , a he have more to do .
He then go to the dead magician , take the lamp out of his vest , and bid the genie carry the palace and all in it back to China .
This be do , and the Princess in her chamber only felt two little shock , and little thought she be at home again .
The Sultan , who be sit in his closet , mourn for his lose daughter , happen to look up , and rub his eye , for there stand the palace a before !
He hasten thither , and Aladdin receive him in the hall of the four-and-twenty window , with the Princess at his side .
Aladdin tell him what have happen , and show him the dead body of the magician , that he might believe .
A ten day ' feast be proclaim , and it seem a if Aladdin might now live the rest of his life in peace ; but it be not to be .
The African magician have a young brother , who be , if possible , more wicked and more cunning than himself .
He travel to China to avenge his brother 's death , and go to visit a pious woman call Fatima , think she might be of use to him .
He enter her cell and clap a dagger to her breast , tell her to rise and do his bidding on pain of death .
He change clothes with her , color his face like hers , put on her veil , and murder her , that she might tell no tale .
Then he go toward the palace of Aladdin , and all the people , think he be the holy woman , gather round him , kiss his hand and beg his blessing .
When he get to the palace there be such a noise go on round him that the Princess bid her slave look out of the window and ask what be the matter .
The slave say it be the holy woman , cure people by her touch of their ailment , whereupon the Princess , who have long desire to see Fatima , send for her .
On come to the Princess the magician offer up a prayer for her health and prosperity .
When he have do the Princess make him sit by her , and beg him to stay with her always .
The false Fatima , who wish for nothing well , consent , but keep his veil down for fear of discovery .
The Princess show him the hall , and ask him what he think of it .
`` It be truly beautiful , '' say the false Fatima .
`` In my mind it want but one thing . ''
`` And what be that ? ''
say the Princess .
`` If only a roc 's egg , '' reply he , `` be hang up from the middle of this dome , it would be the wonder of the world . ''
After this the Princess could think of nothing but the roc 's egg , and when Aladdin return from hunt he find her in a very ill humor .
He beg to know what be amiss , and she tell him that all her pleasure in the hall be spoil for the want of a roc 's egg hanging from the dome .
`` If that be all , '' reply Aladdin , `` you shall soon be happy . ''
He leave her and rub the lamp , and when the genie appear command him to bring a roc 's egg .
The genie give such a loud and terrible shriek that the hall shook .
`` Wretch ! ''
he cry , `` be it not enough that I have do everything for you , but you must command me to bring my master and hang him up in the midst of this dome ?
You and your wife and your palace deserve to be burn to ash , but that this request do not come from you , but from the brother of the African magician , whom you destroy .
He be now in your palace disguise a the holy woman -- whom he murder .
He it be who put that wish into your wife 's head .
Take care of yourself , for he mean to kill you . ''
So say , the genie disappear .
Aladdin go back to the Princess , say his head ache , and request that the holy Fatima should be fetch to lay her hand on it .
But when the magician come near , Aladdin , seize his dagger , pierce him to the heart .
`` What have you do ? ''
cry the Princess .
`` You have kill the holy woman ! ''
`` Not so , '' reply Aladdin , `` but a wicked magician , '' and tell her of how she have be deceive .
After this Aladdin and his wife live in peace .
He succeed the Sultan when he die , and reign for many year , leave behind him a long line of king .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Arabian Nights .
THE TALE OF A YOUTH WHO SET OUT TO LEARN WHAT FEAR WAS A father have two son , of whom the eldest be clever and bright , and always know what he be about ; but the young be stupid , and could n't learn or understand anything .
So much so that those who saw him exclaim : `` What a burden he 'll be to his father ! ''
Now when there be anything to be do , the eldest have always to do it ; but if something be require later or in the night-time , and the way lead through the churchyard or some such ghostly place , he always reply : `` Oh !
no , father : nothing will induce me to go there , it make me shudder ! ''
for he be afraid .
Or , when they sit of an evening around the fire telling story which make one 's flesh creep , the listener sometimes say : `` Oh !
it make one shudder , '' the young sat in a corner , hear the exclamation , and could not understand what it mean .
`` They be always say it make one shudder !
it make one shudder !
Nothing make me shudder .
It 's probably an art quite beyond me . ''
Now it happen that his father say to him one day : `` Hearken , you there in the corner ; you be grow big and strong , and you must learn to earn your own bread .
Look at your brother , what pain he take ; but all the money I 've spend on your education be throw away . ''
`` My dear father , '' he reply , `` I will gladly learn -- in fact , if it be possible I should like to learn to shudder ; I do n't understand that a bit yet . ''
The eldest laugh when he hear this , and think to himself : `` Good heaven !
what a ninny my brother be !
he 'll never come to any good ; a the twig be bent , so be the tree incline . ''
The father sigh , and answer him : `` You 'll soon learn to shudder ; but that wo n't help you to make a living . ''
Shortly after this , when the sexton come to pay them a visit , the father break out to him , and tell him what a bad hand his young son be at everything : he know nothing and learn nothing .
`` Only think !
when I ask him how he purpose gain a livelihood , he actually ask to be teach to shudder . ''
`` If that 's all he want , '' say the sexton , `` I can teach him that ; just you send him to me , I 'll soon polish him up . ''
The father be quite pleased with the proposal , because he think : `` It will be a good discipline for the youth . ''
And so the sexton take him into his house , and his duty be to toll the bell .
After a few day he wake him at midnight , and bid him rise and climb into the tower and toll .
`` Now , my friend , I 'll teach you to shudder , '' think he .
He steal forth secretly in front , and when the youth be up above , and have turn round to grasp the bell-rope , he saw , stand opposite the hole of the belfry , a white figure .
`` Who 's there ? ''
he call out , but the figure give no answer , and neither stir nor move .
`` Answer , '' cry the youth , `` or begone ; you have no business here at this hour of the night . ''
But the sexton remain motionless , so that the youth might think that it be a ghost .
The youth call out the second time : `` What do you want here ?
Speak if you be an honest fellow , or I 'll knock you down the stair . ''
The sexton think : `` He ca n't mean that in earnest , '' so give forth no sound , and stand a though he be make of stone .
Then the youth shout out to him the third time , and a that too have no effect , he make a dash at the spectre and knock it down the stair , so that it fell about ten step and remain lie in a corner .
Thereupon he toll the bell , go home to bed without say a word , and fell asleep .
The sexton 's wife wait a long time for her husband , but he never appear .
At last she become anxious , and wake the youth , and ask : `` Do n't you know where my husband be ?
He go up to the tower in front of you . ''
`` No , '' answer the youth ; `` but someone stand on the stair up there just opposite the trap-door in the belfry , and because he would n't answer me , or go away , I take him for a rogue and knock him down .
You 'd better go and see if it be he ; I should be much distress if it be . ''
The wife run and find her husband who be lie groaning in a corner , with his leg broken .
She carry him down , and then hurry with loud protestation to the youth 's father .
`` Your son have be the cause of a pretty misfortune , '' she cry ; `` he throw my husband downstairs so that he break his leg .
Take the good-for-nothing wretch out of our house . ''
The father be horrify , hurry to the youth , and give him a scolding .
`` What unholy prank be these ?
The evil one must have put them into your head . ''
`` Father , '' he reply , `` only listen to me ; I be quite guiltless .
He stand there in the night , like one who mean harm .
I do n't know who it be , and warn him three time to speak or begone . ''
`` Oh ! ''
groan the father , `` you 'll bring me nothing but misfortune ; get out of my sight , I wo n't have anything more to do with you . ''
`` Yes , father , willingly ; only wait till daylight , then I 'll set out and learn to shudder , and in that way I shall be master of an art which will gain me a living . ''
`` Learn what you will , '' say the father , `` it 's all one to me .
Here be fifty dollar for you , set forth into the wide world with them ; but see you tell no one where you come from or who your father be , for I be ashamed of you . ''
`` Yes , father , whatever you wish ; and if that 's all you ask , I can easily keep it in mind . ''
When day break the youth put the fifty dollar into his pocket , set out on the hard high road , and keep mutter to himself : `` If I could only shudder !
if I could only shudder ! ''
Just at this moment a man come by who hear the youth speaking to himself , and when they have go on a bit and be in sight of the gallows the man say to him : `` Look !
there be the tree where seven people have be hang , and be now learn to fly ; sit down under it and wait till nightfall , and then you 'll pretty soon learn to shudder . ''
`` If that 's all I have to do , '' answer the youth , `` it 's easily do ; but if I learn to shudder so quickly , then you shall have my fifty dollar .
Just come back to me to-morrow morning early . ''
Then the youth go to the gallows-tree and sit down underneath it , and wait for the evening ; and because he felt cold he light himself a fire .
But at midnight it get so chill that in spite of the fire he could n't keep warm .
And a the wind blow the corps one against the other , toss them to and fro , he think to himself : `` If you be perish down here by the fire , how those poor thing up there must be shake and shiver ! ''
And because he have a tender heart , he put up a ladder , which he climb unhooked one body after the other , and take down all the seven .
Then he stir the fire , blow it up , and place them all round in a circle , that they might warm themselves .
But they sit there and do not move , and the fire catch their clothes .
Then he speak : `` Take care , or I 'll hang you up again . ''
But the dead men do not hear and let their rag go on burning .
Then he get angry , and say : `` If you be n't careful yourselves , then I ca n't help you , and I do n't mean to burn with you '' ; and he hang them up again in a row .
Then he sit down at his fire and fell asleep .
On the following morning the man come to him , and , wish to get his fifty dollar , say : `` Now you know what it be to shudder . ''
`` No , '' he answer , `` how should I ?
Those fellows up there never open their mouth , and be so stupid that they let those few old tatter they have on their body burn . ''
Then the man saw he would n't get his fifty dollar that day , and go off , say : `` Well , I 'm blessed if I ever meet such a person in my life before . ''
The youth go too on his way , and begin to murmur to himself : `` Oh !
if I could only shudder !
if I could only shudder ! ''
A carrier who be walk behind him hear these word , and ask him : `` Who be you '' `` I do n't know , '' say the youth .
`` Where do you hail from ? ''
`` I do n't know . ''
`` Who 's your father ? ''
`` I may n't say . ''
`` What be you constantly mutter to yourself ? ''
`` Oh ! ''
say the youth , `` I would give world to shudder , but no one can teach me . ''
`` Stuff and nonsense ! ''
speak the carrier ; `` come along with me , and I 'll soon put that right . ''
The youth go with the carrier , and in the evening they reach an inn , where they be to spend the night .
Then , just a he be enter the room , he say again , quite aloud : `` Oh !
if I could only shudder !
if I could only shudder ! ''
The landlord , who hear this , laugh and say : `` If that 's what you 're sigh for , you shall be give every opportunity here . ''
`` Oh !
hold your tongue ! ''
say the landlord 's wife ; `` so many people have pay for their curiosity with their life , it be a thousand pity if those beautiful eye be never again to behold daylight . ''
But the youth say : `` No matter how difficult , I insist on learn it ; why , that 's what I 've set out to do . ''
He leave the landlord no peace till he tell him that in the neighborhood stand a haunt castle , where one could easily learn to shudder if one only keep watch in it for three night .
The King have promise the man who dare to do this thing his daughter a wife , and she be the most beautiful maiden under the sun .
There be also much treasure hid in the castle , guard by evil spirit , which would then be free , and be sufficient to make a poor man more than rich .
Many have already go in , but so far none have ever come out again .
So the youth go to the King and speak : `` If I be allow , I should much like to watch for three night in the castle . ''
The King look at him , and because he please him , he say : `` You can ask for three thing , none of them live , and those you may take with you into the castle . ''
Then he answer : `` Well , I shall beg for a fire , a turn lathe , and a carving bench with the knife attach . ''
On the following day the King have everything put into the castle ; and when night draw on the youth take up his position there , light a bright fire in one of the room , place the carve bench with the knife close to it , and sit himself down on the turn lathe .
`` Oh !
if I could only shudder ! ''
he say : `` but I sha 'n ' t learn it here either . ''
Toward midnight he want to make up the fire , and a he be blow up a blaze he hear a shriek from a corner .
`` Ou , miou !
how cold we be ! ''
`` You fool ! ''
he cry ; `` why do you scream ?
If you be cold , come and sit at the fire and warm yourselves . ''
And a he speak two huge black cat spring fiercely forward and sit down , one on each side of him , and gaze wildly at him with their fiery eye .
After a time , when they have warm themselves , they say : `` Friend , shall we play a little game of card ? ''
`` Why not ? ''
he reply ; `` but first let me see your paw . ''
Then they stretch out their claw .
`` Ha ! ''
say he ; `` what long nail you 've get !
Wait a minute : I must first cut them off . ''
Thereupon he seize them by the scruff of their neck , lift them on to the carve bench , and screw down their paws firmly .
`` After watch you narrowly , '' say he , `` I no longer feel any desire to play card with you '' ; and with these word he strike them dead and throw them out into the water .
But when he have thus send the two of them to their final rest , and be again about to sit down at the fire , out of every nook and corner come forth black cat and black dog with fiery chain in such swarm that he could n't possibly get away from them .
They yell in the most ghastly manner , jump upon his fire , scatter it all , and try to put it out .
He look on quietly for a time , but when it get beyond a joke he seize his carving-knife and call out : `` Be off , you rabble rout ! ''
and let fly at them .
Some of them flee away , and the others he strike dead and throw them out into the pond below .
When he return he blow up the spark of the fire once more , and warm himself .
And a he sit thus his eye refuse to keep open any longer , and a desire to sleep stole over him .
Then he look around him and beheld in the corner a large bed .
`` The very thing , '' he say , and lay himself down in it .
But when he wish to close his eye the bed begin to move by itself , and run all round the castle .
`` Capital , '' he say , `` only a little quicker . ''
Then the bed speed on a if draw by six horse , over threshold and stair , up this way and down that .
All of a sudden -- crash , crash !
with a bound it turn over , upside down , and lay like a mountain on the top of him .
But he toss the blanket and pillow in the air , emerge from underneath , and say : `` Now anyone who have the fancy for it may go a drive , '' lay down at his fire , and sleep till daylight .
In the morning the King come , and when he behold him lie on the ground he imagine the ghost have be too much for him , and that he be dead .
Then he say : `` What a pity !
and such a fine fellow he be . ''
The youth heard this , get up , and say : `` It 's not come to that yet . ''
Then the King be astonish , but very glad , and ask how it have fare with him .
`` First-rate , '' he answer ; `` and now I 've survive the one night , I shall get through the other two also . ''
The landlord , when he go to him , open his eye wide , and say : `` Well , I never think to see you alive again .
Have you learn now what shuddering be ? ''
`` No , '' he reply , `` it 's quite hopeless ; if someone could only tell me how to ! ''
The second night he go up again to the old castle , sit down at the fire , and begin his old refrain : `` If I could only shudder ! ''
As midnight approach , a noise and din break out , at first gentle , but gradually increase ; then all be quiet for a minute , and at length , with a loud scream , half of a man drop down the chimney and fell before him .
`` Hi , up there ! ''
shout he ; `` there 's another half want down here , that 's not enough '' ; then the din commence once more , there be a shrieking and a yelling , and then the other half fell down .
`` Wait a bit , '' he say ; `` I 'll stir up the fire for you . ''
When he have do this and again look around , the two piece have unite , and a horrible-looking man sit on his seat .
`` Come , '' say the youth , `` I do n't bargain for that , the seat be mine . ''
The man try to shove him away , but the youth would n't allow it for a moment , and , push him off by force , sit down in his place again .
Then more men drop down , one after the other , who fetch nine skeleton leg and two skull , put them up and play ninepin with them .
The youth think he would like to play too , and say : `` Look here ; do you mind my join the game ? ''
`` No , not if you have money . ''
`` I 've money enough , '' he reply , `` but your ball be n't round enough . ''
Then he take the skull , place them on his lathe , and turn them till they be round .
`` Now they 'll roll along well , '' say he , `` and houp-la !
now the fun begin . ''
He play with them and lose some of his money , but when twelve strike everything vanish before his eye .
He lay down and sleep peacefully .
The next morning the King come , anxious for news .
`` How have you get on this time ? ''
he ask .
`` I play ninepin , '' he answer , `` and lose a few penny . ''
`` Did n't you shudder then ? ''
`` No such luck , '' say he ; `` I make myself merry .
Oh !
if I only know what it be to shudder ! ''
On the third night he sit down again on his bench , and say , in the most desponding way : `` If I could only shudder ! ''
When it get late , six big men come in carry a coffin .
Then he cry : `` Ha !
ha !
that 's most likely my little cousin who only die a few day ago '' ; and beckon with his finger he call out : `` Come , my small cousin , come . ''
They place the coffin on the ground , and he approach it and take off the cover .
In it lay a dead man .
He felt his face , and it be cold a ice .
`` Wait , '' he say `` I 'll heat you up a bit , '' go to the fire , warm his hand , and lay it on the man 's face , but the dead remain cold .
Then he lift him out , sit down at the fire , lay him on his knee , and rub his arm that the blood should circulate again .
When that too have no effect it occur to him that if two people lay together in bed they warm each other ; so he put him into the bed , cover him up , and lay down beside him ; after a time the corpse become warm and begin to move .
Then the youth say : `` Now , my little cousin , what would have happen if I have n't warm you ? ''
But the dead man rise up and cry out : `` Now I will strangle you . ''
`` What ! ''
say he , `` be that all the thanks I get ?
You should be put straight back into your coffin , '' lift him up , throw him in , and close the lid .
Then the six men come and carry him out again .
`` I simply ca n't shudder , '' he say , `` and it 's clear I sha 'n ' t learn it in a lifetime here . ''
Then a man enter , of more than ordinary size and of a very fearful appearance ; but he be old and have a white beard .
`` Oh !
you miserable creature , now you will soon know what it be to shudder , '' he cry , `` for you must die . ''
`` Not so quickly , '' answer the youth .
`` If I be to die , you must catch me first . ''
`` I shall soon lay hold of you , '' speak the monster .
`` Gently , gently , do n't boast too much , I 'm as strong a you , and strong too . ''
`` We 'll soon see , '' say the old man ; `` if you be strong than I then I 'll let you off ; come , let 's have a try . ''
Then he lead him through some dark passage to a forge , and grasp an axe he drive one of the anvil with a blow into the earth .
`` I can do good than that , '' cry the youth , and go to the other anvil .
The old man draw near him in order to watch closely , and his white beard hung right down .
The youth seize the axe , cleave the anvil open , and jam in the old man 's beard .
`` Now I have you , '' say the youth ; `` this time it 's your turn to die . ''
Then he seize an iron rod and belabor the old man till he , whimper , beg him to leave off , and he would give him great rich .
The youth draw out the axe and let him go .
The old man lead him back to the castle and show him in a cellar three chest of gold .
`` One of these , '' say he , `` belongs to the poor , one to the King , and the third be yours . ''
At that moment twelve struck , and the spirit vanish , leave the youth alone in the dark .
`` I 'll surely be able to find a way out , '' say he , and grope about he at length find his way back to the room , and fell asleep at his fire .
The next morning the King come , and say : `` Well , now you 've surely learn to shudder ? ''
`` No , '' he answer ; `` what can it be ?
My dead cousin be here , and an old bearded man come , who show me heap of money down below there , but what shuddering be no one have tell me . ''
Then the King spoke : `` You have free the castle from it curse , and you shall marry my daughter . ''
`` That 's all charming , '' he say ; `` but I still do n't know what it be to shudder . ''
Then the gold be bring up , and the wedding be celebrate , but the young King , though he love his wife dearly , and though he be very happy , still keep on say : `` If I could only shudder !
if I could only shudder ! ''
At last he reduce her to despair .
Then her maid say : `` I 'll help you ; we 'll soon make him shudder . ''
So she go out to the stream that flow through the garden , and have a pail full of little gudgeon bring to her .
At night , when the young King be asleep , his wife have to pull the clothes off him , and pour the pail full of little gudgeon over him , so that the little fish swam all about him .
Then he awake and cry out : `` Oh !
how I shudder , how I shudder , dear wife !
Yes , now I know what shuddering be . ''
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Grimm .
RUMPELSTILTZKIN There be once upon a time a poor miller who have a very beautiful daughter .
Now it happen one day that he have an audience with the King , and in order to appear a person of some importance he tell him that he have a daughter who could spin straw into gold .
`` Now that 's a talent worth have , '' say the King to the miller ; `` if your daughter be as clever a you say , bring her to my palace to-morrow , and I 'll put her to the test . ''
When the girl be bring to him he lead her into a room full of straw , give her a spinning-wheel and spindle , and say : `` Now set to work and spin all night till early dawn , and if by that time you have n't spin the straw into gold you shall die . ''
Then he close the door behind him and leave her alone inside .
So the poor miller 's daughter sit down , and do n't know what in the world she be to do .
She have n't the least idea of how to spin straw into gold , and become at last so miserable that she begin to cry .
Suddenly the door open , and in step a tiny little man and say : `` Good-evening , Miss Miller-maid ; why be you cry so bitterly ? ''
`` Oh ! ''
answer the girl , `` I have to spin straw into gold , and have n't a notion how it 's do . ''
`` What will you give me if I spin it for you ? ''
ask the manikin .
`` My necklace , '' reply the girl .
The little man take the necklace , sit himself down at the wheel , and whir , whir , whir , the wheel go round three time , and the bobbin be full .
Then he put on another , and whir , whir , whir , the wheel go round three time , and the second too be full ; and so it go on till the morning , when all the straw be spin away , and all the bobbin be full of gold .
As soon a the sun rise the King come , and when he perceive the gold he be astonish and delight , but his heart only lust more than ever after the precious metal .
He have the miller 's daughter put into another room full of straw , much big than the first , and bid her , if she value her life , spin it all into gold before the following morning .
The girl do n't know what to do , and begin to cry ; then the door open a before , and the tiny little man appear and say : `` What 'll you give me if I spin the straw into gold for you ? ''
`` The ring from my finger , '' answer the girl .
The manikin take the ring , and whir !
round go the spinning-wheel again , and when morning break he have spin all the straw into glitter gold .
The King be pleased beyond measure at the sight but his greed for gold be still not satisfy , and he have the miller 's daughter bring into a yet big room full of straw , and say : `` You must spin all this away in the night ; but if you succeed this time you shall become my wife . ''
`` She 's only a miller 's daughter , it 's true , '' he think ; `` but I could n't find a rich wife if I be to search the whole world over . ''
When the girl be alone the little man appear for the third time , and say : `` What 'll you give me if I spin the straw for you once again ? ''
`` I 've nothing more to give , '' answer the girl .
`` Then promise me when you be Queen to give me your first child . ''
`` Who know what may not happen before that ? ''
think the miller 's daughter ; and besides , she saw no other way out of it , so she promise the manikin what he demand , and he set to work once more and spin the straw into gold .
When the King come in the morning , and find everything a he have desire , he straightway make her his wife , and the miller 's daughter become a queen .
When a year have pass a beautiful son be bear to her , and she think no more of the little man , till all of a sudden one day he step into her room and say : `` Now give me what you promise . ''
The Queen be in a great state , and offer the little man all the rich in her kingdom if he would only leave her the child .
But the manikin say : `` No , a living creature be dearer to me than all the treasure in the world . ''
Then the Queen begin to cry and sob so bitterly that the little man be sorry for her , and say : `` I 'll give you three day to guess my name , and if you find it out in that time you may keep your child . ''
Then the Queen ponder the whole night over all the name she have ever hear , and send a messenger to scour the land , and to pick up far and near any name he could come across .
When the little man arrive on the following day she begin with Kasper , Melchior , Belshazzar , and all the other name she know , in a string , but at each one the manikin call out : `` That 's not my name . ''
The next day she send to inquire the name of all the people in the neighborhood , and have a long list of the most uncommon and extraordinary for the little man when he make his appearance .
`` Is your name , perhaps , Sheepshanks Cruickshanks , Spindleshanks ? ''
but he always reply : `` That 's not my name . ''
On the third day the messenger return and announce : `` I have not be able to find any new name , but a I come upon a high hill round the corner of the wood , where the fox and hare bid each other good-night , I saw a little house , and in front of the house burn a fire , and round the fire spring the most grotesque little man , hop on one leg and cry : `` To-morrow I brew , to-day I bake , And then the child away I 'll take ; For little deems my royal dame That Rumpelstiltzkin be my name ! ''
You can imagine the Queen 's delight at hear the name , and when the little man step in shortly afterward and ask : `` Now , my lady Queen , what 's my name ? ''
she ask first : `` Is your name Conrad ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Is your name Harry ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Is your name perhaps , Rumpelstiltzkin ? ''
`` Some demon have tell you that !
some demon have tell you that ! ''
scream the little man , and in his rage drive his right foot so far into the ground that it sink in up to his waist ; then in a passion he seize the left foot with both hand and tore himself in two .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Grimm .
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST Once upon a time , in a very far-off country , there live a merchant who have be so fortunate in all his undertaking that he be enormously rich .
As he have , however , six son and six daughter , he find that his money be not too much to let them all have everything they fancy , a they be accustom to do .
But one day a most unexpected misfortune befall them .
Their house catch fire and be speedily burn to the ground , with all the splendid furniture , the book , picture , gold , silver , and precious good it contain ; and this be only the beginning of their trouble .
Their father , who have until this moment prosper in all way , suddenly lose every ship he have upon the sea , either by dint of pirate , shipwreck , or fire .
Then he hear that his clerk in distant country , whom he trust entirely , have prove unfaithful ; and at last from great wealth he fell into the dire poverty .
All that he have leave be a little house in a desolate place at least a hundred league from the town in which he have live , and to this he be force to retreat with his child , who be in despair at the idea of lead such a different life .
Indeed , the daughter at first hop that their friend , who have be so numerous while they be rich , would insist on their staying in their house now they no longer possess one .
But they soon find that they be leave alone , and that their former friend even attribute their misfortune to their own extravagance , and show no intention of offer them any help .
So nothing be leave for them but to take their departure to the cottage , which stand in the midst of a dark forest , and seem to be the most dismal place upon the face of the earth .
As they be too poor to have any servant , the girl have to work hard , like peasant , and the son , for their part , cultivate the field to earn their living .
Roughly clothe , and living in the simple way , the girl regret unceasingly the luxury and amusement of their former life ; only the young try to be brave and cheerful .
She have be as sad a anyone when misfortune overtake her father , but , soon recover her natural gaiety , she set to work to make the best of thing , to amuse her father and brother as well a she could , and to try to persuade her sister to join her in dancing and singing .
But they would do nothing of the sort , and , because she be not as doleful a themselves , they declare that this miserable life be all she be fit for .
But she be really far pretty and clever than they be ; indeed , she be so lovely that she be always call Beauty .
After two year , when they be all begin to get use to their new life , something happen to disturb their tranquillity .
Their father receive the news that one of his ship , which he have believe to be lose , have come safely into port with a rich cargo .
All the son and daughter at once think that their poverty be at an end , and want to set out directly for the town ; but their father , who be more prudent , beg them to wait a little , and , though it be harvest time , and he could ill be spar , determine to go himself first , to make inquiry .
Only the young daughter have any doubt but that they would soon again be as rich a they be before , or at least rich enough to live comfortably in some town where they would find amusement and gay companion once more .
So they all load their father with commission for jewel and dress which it would have take a fortune to buy ; only Beauty , feel sure that it be of no use , do not ask for anything .
Her father , notice her silence , say : `` And what shall I bring for you , Beauty ? ''
`` The only thing I wish for be to see you come home safely , '' she answer .
But this only vex her sister , who fancy she be blame them for have ask for such costly thing .
Her father , however , be pleased , but a he think that at her age she certainly ought to like pretty present , he tell her to choose something .
`` Well , dear father , '' she say , `` a you insist upon it , I beg that you will bring me a rise .
I have not see one since we come here , and I love them so much . ''
So the merchant set out and reach the town as quickly a possible , but only to find that his former companion , believe him to be dead , have divide between them the good which the ship have bring ; and after six month of trouble and expense he find himself as poor a when he start , have be able to recover only just enough to pay the cost of his journey .
To make matter bad , he be oblige to leave the town in the most terrible weather , so that by the time he be within a few league of his home he be almost exhaust with cold and fatigue .
Though he know it would take some hour to get through the forest , he be so anxious to be at his journey 's end that he resolve to go on ; but night overtake him , and the deep snow and bitter frost make it impossible for his horse to carry him any far .
Not a house be to be see ; the only shelter he could get be the hollow trunk of a great tree , and there he crouch all the night which seem to him the long he have ever know .
In spite of his weariness the howling of the wolf keep him awake , and even when at last the day break he be not much good off , for the fall snow have cover up every path , and he do not know which way to turn .
At length he make out some sort of track , and though at the begin it be so rough and slippery that he fell down more than once , it presently become easy , and lead him into an avenue of tree which end in a splendid castle .
It seem to the merchant very strange that no snow have fall in the avenue , which be entirely compose of orange tree , cover with flower and fruit .
When he reach the first court of the castle he saw before him a flight of agate step , and go up them , and pass through several splendidly furnish room .
The pleasant warmth of the air revive him , and he felt very hungry ; but there seem to be nobody in all this vast and splendid palace whom he could ask to give him something to eat .
Deep silence reign everywhere , and at last , tire of roam through empty room and gallery , he stop in a room small than the rest , where a clear fire be burn and a couch be draw up closely to it .
Thinking that this must be prepare for someone who be expect , he sit down to wait till he should come , and very soon fell into a sweet sleep .
When his extreme hunger waken him after several hour , he be still alone ; but a little table , upon which be a good dinner , have be draw up close to him , and , a he have eat nothing for twenty-four hour , he lose no time in begin his meal , hop that he might soon have an opportunity of thank his considerate entertainer , whoever it might be .
But no one appear , and even after another long sleep , from which he awake completely refresh , there be no sign of anybody , though a fresh meal of dainty cake and fruit be prepare upon the little table at his elbow .
Being naturally timid , the silence begin to terrify him , and he resolve to search once more through all the room ; but it be of no use .
Not even a servant be to be see ; there be no sign of life in the palace !
He begin to wonder what he should do , and to amuse himself by pretend that all the treasure he saw be his own , and consider how he would divide them among his child .
Then he go down into the garden , and though it be winter everywhere else , here the sun shone , and the bird sang , and the flower bloom , and the air be soft and sweet .
The merchant , in ecstacies with all he saw and heard , say to himself : `` All this must be mean for me .
I will go this minute and bring my child to share all these delight . ''
In spite of be so cold and weary when he reach the castle , he have take his horse to the stable and feed it .
Now he think he would saddle it for his homeward journey , and he turn down the path which lead to the stable .
This path have a hedge of rose on each side of it , and the merchant think he have never see or smelt such exquisite flower .
They remind him of his promise to Beauty , and he stop and have just gather one to take to her when he be startle by a strange noise behind him .
Turning round , he saw a frightful Beast , which seem to be very angry and say , in a terrible voice : `` Who tell you that you might gather my rose ?
Was it not enough that I allow you to be in my palace and be kind to you ?
This be the way you show your gratitude , by steal my flower !
But your insolence shall not go unpunished . ''
The merchant , terrify by these furious word , drop the fatal rise , and , throw himself on his knee , cry : `` Pardon me , noble sir .
I be truly grateful to you for your hospitality , which be so magnificent that I could not imagine that you would be offend by my take such a little thing a a rise . ''
But the Beast 's anger be not lessen by this speech .
`` You be very ready with excuse and flattery , '' he cry ; `` but that will not save you from the death you deserve . ''
`` Alas ! ''
think the merchant , `` if my daughter could only know what danger her rise have bring me into ! ''
And in despair he begin to tell the Beast all his misfortune , and the reason of his journey , not forget to mention Beauty 's request .
`` A king 's ransom would hardly have procure all that my other daughter ask . ''
he say : `` but I think that I might at least take Beauty her rise .
I beg you to forgive me , for you see I mean no harm . ''
The Beast consider for a moment , and then he say , in a less furious tone : `` I will forgive you on one condition -- that be , that you will give me one of your daughter . ''
`` Ah ! ''
cry the merchant , `` if I be cruel enough to buy my own life at the expense of one of my child 's , what excuse could I invent to bring her here ? ''
`` No excuse would be necessary , '' answer the Beast .
`` If she come at all she must come willingly .
On no other condition will I have her .
See if any one of them be courageous enough , and love you well enough to come and save your life .
You seem to be an honest man , so I will trust you to go home .
I give you a month to see if either of your daughter will come back with you and stay here , to let you go free .
If neither of them be willing , you must come alone , after bid them good-by for ever , for then you will belong to me .
And do not imagine that you can hide from me , for if you fail to keep your word I will come and fetch you ! ''
add the Beast grimly .
The merchant accept this proposal , though he do not really think any of his daughter could be persuade to come .
He promise to return at the time appoint , and then , anxious to escape from the presence of the Beast , he ask permission to set off at once .
But the Beast answer that he could not go until next day .
`` Then you will find a horse ready for you , '' he say .
`` Now go and eat your supper , and await my order . ''
The poor merchant , more dead than alive , go back to his room , where the most delicious supper be already serve on the little table which be draw up before a blazing fire .
But he be too terrify to eat , and only taste a few of the dish , for fear the Beast should be angry if he do not obey his order .
When he have finish he hear a great noise in the next room , which he know meant that the Beast be come .
As he could do nothing to escape his visit , the only thing that remain be to seem as little afraid a possible ; so when the Beast appear and ask roughly if he have sup well , the merchant answer humbly that he have , thanks to his host 's kindness .
Then the Beast warn him to remember their agreement , and to prepare his daughter exactly for what she have to expect .
`` Do not get up to-morrow , '' he add , `` until you see the sun and hear a golden bell ring .
Then you will find your breakfast wait for you here , and the horse you be to ride will be ready in the courtyard .
He will also bring you back again when you come with your daughter a month hence .
Farewell .
Take a rise to Beauty , and remember your promise ! ''
The merchant be only too glad when the Beast go away , and though he could not sleep for sadness , he lay down until the sun rise .
Then , after a hasty breakfast , he go to gather Beauty 's rise , and mount his horse , which carry him off so swiftly that in an instant he have lose sight of the palace , and he be still wrap in gloomy thought when it stop before the door of the cottage .
His son and daughter , who have be very uneasy at his long absence , rush to meet him , eager to know the result of his journey , which , see him mounted upon a splendid horse and wrap in a rich mantle , they suppose to be favorable .
He hide the truth from them at first , only say sadly to Beauty a he give her the rise : `` Here be what you ask me to bring you ; you little know what it have cost . ''
But this excite their curiosity so greatly that presently he tell them his adventure from begin to end , and then they be all very unhappy .
The girl lament loudly over their lose hope , and the son declare that their father should not return to this terrible castle , and begin to make plan for kill the Beast if it should come to fetch him .
But he remind them that he have promise to go back .
Then the girl be very angry with Beauty , and say it be all her fault , and that if she have ask for something sensible this would never have happen , and complain bitterly that they should have to suffer for her folly .
Poor Beauty , much distress , say to them : `` I have , indeed , cause this misfortune , but I assure you I do it innocently .
Who could have guess that to ask for a rise in the middle of summer would cause so much misery ?
But a I do the mischief it be only just that I should suffer for it .
I will therefore go back with my father to keep his promise . ''
At first nobody would hear of this arrangement , and her father and brother , who love her dearly , declare that nothing should make them let her go ; but Beauty be firm .
As the time draw near she divide all her little possession between her sister , and say good-by to everything she love , and when the fatal day come she encourage and cheer her father a they mount together the horse which have bring him back .
It seem to fly rather than gallop , but so smoothly that Beauty be not frighten ; indeed , she would have enjoy the journey if she have not fear what might happen to her at the end of it .
Her father still try to persuade her to go back , but in vain .
While they be talk the night fell , and then , to their great surprise , wonderful color light begin to shine in all direction , and splendid firework blaze out before them ; all the forest be illuminate by them , and even felt pleasantly warm , though it have be bitterly cold before .
This last until they reach the avenue of orange tree , where be statue hold flaming torch , and when they get nearer to the palace they saw that it be illuminate from the roof to the ground , and music sound softly from the courtyard .
`` The Beast must be very hungry , '' say Beauty , try to laugh , `` if he make all this rejoicing over the arrival of his prey . ''
But , in spite of her anxiety , she could not help admire all the wonderful thing she saw .
The horse stop at the foot of the flight of step lead to the terrace , and when they have dismount her father lead her to the little room he have be in before , where they find a splendid fire burning , and the table daintily spread with a delicious supper .
The merchant know that this be mean for them , and Beauty , who be rather less frighten now that she have pass through so many room and see nothing of the Beast , be quite willing to begin , for her long ride have make her very hungry .
But they have hardly finish their meal when the noise of the Beast 's footstep be hear approaching , and Beauty clung to her father in terror , which become all the great when she saw how frighten he be .
But when the Beast really appear , though she tremble at the sight of him , she make a great effort to hide her terror , and salute him respectfully .
This evidently please the Beast .
After look at her he say , in a tone that might have strike terror into the bold heart , though he do not seem to be angry : `` Good-evening , old man .
Good-evening , Beauty . ''
The merchant be too terrify to reply , but Beauty answer sweetly : `` Good-evening , Beast . ''
`` Have you come willingly ? ''
ask the Beast .
`` Will you be content to stay here when your father go away ? ''
Beauty answer bravely that she be quite prepared to stay .
`` I be pleased with you , '' say the Beast .
`` As you have come of your own accord , you may stay .
As for you , old man , '' he add , turn to the merchant , `` at sunrise to-morrow you will take your departure .
When the bell ring get up quickly and eat your breakfast , and you will find the same horse wait to take you home ; but remember that you must never expect to see my palace again . ''
Then turn to Beauty , he say : `` Take your father into the next room , and help him to choose everything you think your brother and sister would like to have .
You will find two traveling-trunks there ; fill them as full a you can .
It be only just that you should send them something very precious a a remembrance of yourself . ''
Then he go away , after say , `` Good-by , Beauty ; good-by , old man '' ; and though Beauty be begin to think with great dismay of her father 's departure , she be afraid to disobey the Beast 's order ; and they go into the next room , which have shelf and cupboard all round it .
They be greatly surprise at the rich it contain .
There be splendid dress fit for a queen , with all the ornament that be to be wear with them ; and when Beauty open the cupboard she be quite dazzle by the gorgeous jewel that lay in heap upon every shelf .
After choose a vast quantity , which she divide between her sister -- for she have make a heap of the wonderful dress for each of them -- she open the last chest , which be full of gold .
`` I think , father , '' she say , `` that , a the gold will be more useful to you , we have well take out the other thing again , and fill the trunk with it . ''
So they do this ; but the more they put in the more room there seem to be , and at last they put back all the jewel and dress they have take out , and Beauty even add a many more of the jewel a she could carry at once ; and then the trunk be not too full , but they be so heavy that an elephant could not have carry them !
`` The Beast be mock u , '' cry the merchant ; `` he must have pretend to give u all these thing , know that I could not carry them away . ''
`` Let u wait and see , '' answer Beauty .
`` I can not believe that he mean to deceive u .
All we can do be to fasten them up and leave them ready . ''
So they do this and return to the little room , where , to their astonishment , they find breakfast ready .
The merchant eat his with a good appetite , a the Beast 's generosity make him believe that he might perhaps venture to come back soon and see Beauty .
But she felt sure that her father be leave her for ever , so she be very sad when the bell ring sharply for the second time , and warn them that the time have come for them to part .
They go down into the courtyard , where two horse be wait , one load with the two trunk , the other for him to ride .
They be paw the ground in their impatience to start , and the merchant be force to bid Beauty a hasty farewell ; and as soon a he be mount he go off at such a pace that she lose sight of him in an instant .
Then Beauty begin to cry , and wander sadly back to her own room .
But she soon find that she be very sleepy , and a she have nothing well to do she lay down and instantly fell asleep .
And then she dream that she be walk by a brook border with tree , and lament her sad fate , when a young prince , handsome than anyone she have ever see , and with a voice that go straight to her heart , come and say to her , `` Ah , Beauty !
you be not so unfortunate a you suppose .
Here you will be reward for all you have suffer elsewhere .
Your every wish shall be gratify .
Only try to find me out , no matter how I may be disguise , a I love you dearly , and in make me happy you will find your own happiness .
Be as true-hearted a you be beautiful , and we shall have nothing leave to wish for . ''
`` What can I do , Prince , to make you happy ? ''
say Beauty .
`` Only be grateful , '' he answer , `` and do not trust too much to your eye .
And , above all , do not desert me until you have save me from my cruel misery . ''
After this she think she find herself in a room with a stately and beautiful lady , who say to her : `` Dear Beauty , try not to regret all you have leave behind you , for you be destine to a good fate .
Only do not let yourself be deceive by appearance . ''
Beauty find her dream so interest that she be in no hurry to awake , but presently the clock rouse her by call her name softly twelve time , and then she get up and find her dressing-table set out with everything she could possibly want ; and when her toilet be finish she find dinner be wait in the room next to hers .
But dinner do not take very long when you be all by yourself , and very soon she sit down cosily in the corner of a sofa , and begin to think about the charming Prince she have see in her dream .
`` He say I could make him happy , '' say Beauty to herself .
`` It seem , then , that this horrible Beast keep him a prisoner .
How can I set him free ?
I wonder why they both tell me not to trust to appearance ?
I do n't understand it .
But , after all , it be only a dream , so why should I trouble myself about it ?
I have well go and find something to do to amuse myself . ''
So she get up and begin to explore some of the many room of the palace .
The first she enter be line with mirror , and Beauty saw herself reflect on every side , and think she have never see such a charming room .
Then a bracelet which be hang from a chandelier catch her eye , and on take it down she be greatly surprised to find that it hold a portrait of her unknown admirer , just a she have see him in her dream .
With great delight she slip the bracelet on her arm , and go on into a gallery of picture , where she soon find a portrait of the same handsome Prince , as large a life , and so well painted that a she study it he seem to smile kindly at her .
Tearing herself away from the portrait at last , she pass through into a room which contain every musical instrument under the sun , and here she amuse herself for a long while in try some of them , and sing until she be tire .
The next room be a library , and she saw everything she have ever want to read , as well a everything she have read , and it seem to her that a whole lifetime would not be enough to even read the name of the book , there be so many .
By this time it be grow dusk , and wax candle in diamond and ruby candlestick be begin to light themselves in every room .
Beauty find her supper serve just at the time she prefer to have it , but she do not see anyone or hear a sound , and , though her father have warn her that she would be alone , she begin to find it rather dull .
But presently she hear the Beast coming , and wonder tremblingly if he mean to eat her up now .
However , a he do not seem at all ferocious , and only say gruffly : `` Good-evening , Beauty , '' she answer cheerfully and manage to conceal her terror .
Then the Beast ask her how she have be amuse herself , and she tell him all the room she have see .
Then he ask if she think she could be happy in his palace ; and Beauty answer that everything be so beautiful that she would be very hard to please if she could not be happy .
And after about an hour 's talk Beauty begin to think that the Beast be not nearly so terrible a she have suppose at first .
Then he get up to leave her , and say in his gruff voice : `` Do you love me , Beauty ?
Will you marry me ? ''
`` Oh !
what shall I say ? ''
cry Beauty , for she be afraid to make the Beast angry by refuse .
`` Say ` yes ' or ` no ' without fear , '' he reply .
`` Oh !
no , Beast , '' say Beauty hastily .
`` Since you will not , good-night , Beauty , '' he say .
And she answer , `` Good-night , Beast , '' very glad to find that her refusal have not provoke him .
And after he be go she be very soon in bed and asleep , and dreaming of her unknown Prince .
She think he come and say to her : `` Ah , Beauty !
why be you so unkind to me ?
I fear I be fat to be unhappy for many a long day still . ''
And then her dream change , but the charming Prince figure in them all ; and when morning come her first thought be to look at the portrait , and see if it be really like him , and she find that it certainly be .
This morning she decide to amuse herself in the garden , for the sun shone , and all the fountain be play ; but she be astonish to find that every place be familiar to her , and presently she come to the brook where the myrtle tree be grow where she have first meet the Prince in her dream , and that make her think more than ever that he must be keep a prisoner by the Beast .
When she be tire she go back to the palace , and find a new room full of material for every kind of work -- ribbon to make into bow , and silk to work into flower .
Then there be an aviary full of rare bird , which be so tame that they fly to Beauty as soon a they saw her , and perch upon her shoulder and her head .
`` Pretty little creature , '' she say , `` how I wish that your cage be nearer to my room , that I might often hear you sing ! ''
So say she open a door , and find , to her delight , that it lead into her own room , though she have think it be quite the other side of the palace .
There be more bird in a room farther on , parrot and cockatoo that could talk , and they greet Beauty by name ; indeed , she find them so entertain that she take one or two back to her room , and they talk to her while she be at supper ; after which the Beast pay her his usual visit , and ask her the same question a before , and then with a gruff `` good-night '' he take his departure , and Beauty go to bed to dream of her mysterious Prince .
The day pass swiftly in different amusement , and after a while Beauty find out another strange thing in the palace , which often please her when she be tire of be alone .
There be one room which she have not notice particularly ; it be empty , except that under each of the window stand a very comfortable chair ; and the first time she have look out of the window it have seem to her that a black curtain prevent her from see anything outside .
But the second time she go into the room , happen to be tire , she sit down in one of the chair , when instantly the curtain be roll aside , and a most amusing pantomime be act before her ; there be dance , and color light , and music , and pretty dress , and it be all so gay that Beauty be in ecstacies .
After that she try the other seven window in turn , and there be some new and surprising entertainment to be see from each of them , so that Beauty never could feel lonely any more .
Every evening after supper the Beast come to see her , and always before say good-night ask her in his terrible voice : `` Beauty , will you marry me ? ''
And it seem to Beauty , now she understand him good , that when she say , `` No , Beast , '' he go away quite sad .
But her happy dream of the handsome young Prince soon make her forget the poor Beast , and the only thing that at all disturb her be to be constantly tell to distrust appearance , to let her heart guide her , and not her eye , and many other equally perplexing thing , which , consider a she would , she could not understand .
So everything go on for a long time , until at last , happy a she be , Beauty begin to long for the sight of her father and her brother and sister ; and one night , see her look very sad , the Beast ask her what be the matter .
Beauty have quite cease to be afraid of him .
Now she know that he be really gentle in spite of his ferocious look and his dreadful voice .
So she answer that she be long to see her home once more .
Upon hear this the Beast seem sadly distress , and cry miserably .
`` Ah !
Beauty , have you the heart to desert an unhappy Beast like this ?
What more do you want to make you happy ?
Is it because you hate me that you want to escape ? ''
`` No , dear Beast , '' answer Beauty softly , `` I do not hate you , and I should be very sorry never to see you any more , but I long to see my father again .
Only let me go for two month , and I promise to come back to you and stay for the rest of my life . ''
The Beast , who have be sigh dolefully while she speak , now reply : `` I can not refuse you anything you ask , even though it should cost me my life .
Take the four box you will find in the room next to your own , and fill them with everything you wish to take with you .
But remember your promise and come back when the two month be over , or you may have cause to repent it , for if you do not come in good time you will find your faithful Beast dead .
You will not need any chariot to bring you back .
Only say good-by to all your brother and sister the night before you come away , and when you have go to bed turn this ring round upon your finger and say firmly : ' I wish to go back to my palace and see my Beast again . '
Good-night , Beauty .
Fear nothing , sleep peacefully , and before long you shall see your father once more . ''
As soon a Beauty be alone she hasten to fill the box with all the rare and precious thing she saw about her , and only when she be tire of heap thing into them do they seem to be full .
Then she go to bed , but could hardly sleep for joy .
And when at last she do begin to dream of her beloved Prince she be grieve to see him stretch upon a grassy bank , sad and weary , and hardly like himself .
`` What be the matter ? ''
she cry .
He look at her reproachfully , and say : `` How can you ask me , cruel one ?
Are you not leave me to my death perhaps ? ''
`` Ah !
do n't be so sorrowful , '' cry Beauty ; `` I be only go to assure my father that I be safe and happy .
I have promise the Beast faithfully that I will come back , and he would die of grief if I do not keep my word ! ''
`` What would that matter to you ? ''
say the Prince `` Surely you would not care ? ''
`` Indeed , I should be ungrateful if I do not care for such a kind Beast , '' cry Beauty indignantly .
`` I would die to save him from pain .
I assure you it be not his fault that he be so ugly . ''
Just then a strange sound wake her -- someone be speak not very far away ; and open her eye she find herself in a room she have never see before , which be certainly not nearly so splendid a those she be use to in the Beast 's palace .
Where could she be ?
She get up and dress hastily , and then saw that the box she have pack the night before be all in the room .
While she be wonder by what magic the Beast have transport them and herself to this strange place she suddenly hear her father 's voice , and rush out and greet him joyfully .
Her brother and sister be all astonish at her appearance , a they have never expect to see her again , and there be no end to the question they ask her .
She have also much to hear about what have happen to them while she be away , and of her father 's journey home .
But when they hear that she have only come to be with them for a short time , and then must go back to the Beast 's palace for ever , they lament loudly .
Then Beauty ask her father what he think could be the meaning of her strange dream , and why the Prince constantly beg her not to trust to appearance .
After much consideration , he answer : `` You tell me yourself that the Beast , frightful a he be , love you dearly , and deserve your love and gratitude for his gentleness and kindness ; I think the Prince must mean you to understand that you ought to reward him by do a he wish you to , in spite of his ugliness . ''
Beauty could not help see that this seem very probable ; still , when she think of her dear Prince who be so handsome , she do not feel at all incline to marry the Beast .
At any rate , for two month she need not decide , but could enjoy herself with her sister .
But though they be rich now , and live in town again , and have plenty of acquaintance , Beauty find that nothing amuse her very much ; and she often think of the palace , where she be so happy , especially a at home she never once dream of her dear Prince , and she felt quite sad without him .
Then her sister seem to have get quite use to be without her , and even find her rather in the way , so she would not have be sorry when the two month be over but for her father and brother , who beg her to stay , and seem so grieve at the thought of her departure that she have not the courage to say good-by to them .
Every day when she get up she mean to say it at night , and when night come she put it off again , until at last she have a dismal dream which help her to make up her mind .
She think she be wander in a lonely path in the palace garden , when she hear groan which seem to come from some bush hide the entrance of a cave , and run quickly to see what could be the matter , she find the Beast stretch out upon his side , apparently die .
He reproach her faintly with be the cause of his distress , and at the same moment a stately lady appear , and say very gravely : `` Ah !
Beauty , you be only just in time to save his life .
See what happen when people do not keep their promise !
If you have delay one day more , you would have find him dead . ''
Beauty be so terrify by this dream that the next morning she announce her intention of go back at once , and that very night she say good-by to her father and all her brother and sister , and as soon a she be in bed she turn her ring round upon her finger , and say firmly , `` I wish to go back to my palace and see my Beast again , '' a she have be tell to do .
Then she fell asleep instantly , and only wake up to hear the clock say `` Beauty , Beauty '' twelve time in it musical voice , which tell her at once that she be really in the palace once more .
Everything be just a before , and her bird be so glad to see her !
But Beauty think she have never know such a long day , for she be so anxious to see the Beast again that she felt a if suppertime would never come .
But when it do come and no Beast appear she be really frighten ; so , after listen and wait for a long time , she run down into the garden to search for him .
Up and down the path and avenue run poor Beauty , call him in vain , for no one answer , and not a trace of him could she find ; until at last , quite tired , she stop for a minute 's rest , and saw that she be stand opposite the shady path she have see in her dream .
She rush down it , and , sure enough , there be the cave , and in it lay the Beast -- asleep , a Beauty think .
Quite glad to have find him , she run up and stroke his head , but , to her horror , he do not move or open his eye .
`` Oh !
he be dead ; and it be all my fault , '' say Beauty , cry bitterly .
But then , look at him again , she fancy he still breathe , and , hastily fetch some water from the near fountain , she sprinkle it over his face , and , to her great delight , he begin to revive .
`` Oh !
Beast , how you frighten me ! ''
she cry .
`` I never know how much I love you until just now , when I fear I be too late to save your life . ''
`` Can you really love such an ugly creature a I be ? ''
say the Beast faintly .
`` Ah !
Beauty , you only come just in time .
I be die because I think you have forget your promise .
But go back now and rest , I shall see you again by and by . ''
Beauty , who have half expect that he would be angry with her , be reassure by his gentle voice , and go back to the palace , where supper be await her ; and afterward the Beast come in a usual , and talk about the time she have spend with her father , ask if she have enjoy herself , and if they have all be very glad to see her .
Beauty answer politely , and quite enjoyed tell him all that have happen to her .
And when at last the time come for him to go , and he ask , a he have so often ask before , `` Beauty , will you marry me ? ''
She answer softly , `` Yes , dear Beast . ''
As she speak a blaze of light spring up before the window of the palace ; firework crackle and gun bang , and across the avenue of orange tree , in letter all make of fire-flies , be write : `` Long live the Prince and his Bride . ''
Turning to ask the Beast what it could all mean , Beauty find that he have disappear , and in his place stand her long-loved Prince !
At the same moment the wheel of a chariot be hear upon the terrace , and two lady enter the room .
One of them Beauty recognize a the stately lady she have see in her dream ; the other be also so grand and queenly that Beauty hardly know which to greet first .
But the one she already know say to her companion : `` Well , Queen , this be Beauty , who have have the courage to rescue your son from the terrible enchantment .
They love one another , and only your consent to their marriage be want to make them perfectly happy . ''
`` I consent with all my heart , '' cry the Queen .
`` How can I ever thank you enough , charm girl , for have restore my dear son to his natural form ? ''
And then she tenderly embrace Beauty and the Prince , who have meanwhile be greet the Fairy and receive her congratulation .
`` Now , '' say the Fairy to Beauty , `` I suppose you would like me to send for all your brother and sister to dance at your wedding ? ''
And so she do , and the marriage be celebrate the very next day with the utmost splendor , and Beauty and the Prince live happily ever after .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- La Belle et la Bete .
Par Madame de Villeneuve .
THE MASTER-MAID Once upon a time there be a king who have many son .
I do not exactly know how many there be , but the young of them could not stay quietly at home , and be determine to go out into the world and try his luck , and after a long time the King be force to give him leave to go .
When he have travel about for several day , he come to a giant 's house , and hire himself to the giant a a servant .
In the morning the giant have to go out to pasture his goat , and a he be leave the house he tell the King 's son that he must clean out the stable .
`` And after you have do that , '' he say , `` you need not do any more work to-day , for you have come to a kind master , and that you shall find .
But what I set you to do must be do both well and thoroughly , and you must on no account go into any of the room which lead out of the room in which you sleep last night .
If you do , I will take your life . ''
`` Well to be sure , he be an easy master ! ''
say the Prince to himself a he walk up and down the room humming and singing , for he think there would be plenty of time leave to clean out the stable ; `` but it would be amuse to steal a glance into his other room a well , '' think the Prince , `` for there must be something that he be afraid of my seeing , a I be not allow to enter them . ''
So he go into the first room .
A cauldron be hang from the wall ; it be boil , but the Prince could see no fire under it .
`` I wonder what be inside it , '' he think , and dip a lock of his hair in , and the hair become just a if it be all make of copper .
`` That 's a nice kind of soup .
If anyone be to taste that his throat would be gild , '' say the youth , and then he go into the next chamber .
There , too , a cauldron be hang from the wall , bubble and boiling , but there be no fire under this either .
`` I will just try what this be like too , '' say the Prince , thrust another lock of his hair into it , and it come out silver over .
`` Such costly soup be not to be have in my father 's palace , '' say the Prince ; `` but everything depends on how it taste , '' and then he go into the third room .
There , too , a cauldron be hang from the wall , boiling , exactly the same a in the two other room , and the Prince take pleasure in try this also , so he dip a lock of hair in , and it come out so brightly gild that it shine again .
`` Some talk about go from bad to worse , '' say the Prince ; `` but this be well and well .
If he boil gold here , what can he boil in there ? ''
He be determine to see , and go through the door into the fourth room .
No cauldron be to be see there , but on a bench someone be seat who be like a king 's daughter , but , whosoever she be , she be so beautiful that never in the Prince 's life have he see her equal .
`` Oh !
in heaven 's name what be you do here ? ''
say she who sit upon the bench .
`` I take the place of servant here yesterday , '' say the Prince .
`` May you soon have a good place , if you have come to serve here ! ''
say she .
`` Oh , but I think I have get a kind master , '' say the Prince .
`` He have not give me hard work to do to-day .
When I have clean out the stable I shall be do . ''
`` Yes , but how will you be able to do that ? ''
she ask again .
`` If you clean it out a other people do , ten pitchforksful will come in for every one you throw out .
But I will teach you how to do it ; you must turn your pitchfork upside down , and work with the handle , and then all will fly out of it own accord . ''
`` Yes , I will attend to that , '' say the Prince , and stay sit where he be the whole day , for it be soon settle between them that they would marry each other , he and the King 's daughter ; so the first day of his service with the giant do not seem long to him .
But when evening be draw near she say that it would now be good for him to clean out the stable before the giant come home .
When he get there he have a fancy to try if what she have say be true , so he begin to work in the same way that he have see the stable-boys do in his father 's stable , but he soon saw that he must give up that , for when he have work a very short time he have scarcely any room leave to stand .
So he do what the Princess have teach him , turn the pitchfork round , and work with the handle , and in the twinkling of an eye the stable be as clean a if it have be scour .
When he have do that , he go back again into the room in which the giant have give him leave to stay , and there he walk backward and forward on the floor , and begin to hum and sing .
Then come the giant home with the goat .
`` Have you clean the stable ? ''
ask the giant .
`` Yes , now it be clean and sweet , master , '' say the King 's son .
`` I shall see about that , '' say the giant , and go round to the stable , but it be just a the Prince have say .
`` You have certainly be talk to my Master-maid , for you never get that out of your own head , '' say the giant .
`` Master-maid !
What kind of a thing be that , master ? ''
say the Prince , make himself look as stupid a an as ; `` I should like to see that . ''
`` Well , you will see her quite soon enough , '' say the giant .
On the second morning the giant have again to go out with his goat , so he tell the Prince that on that day he be to fetch home his horse , which be out on the mountain-side , and when he have do that he might rest himself for the remainder of the day , `` for you have come to a kind master , and that you shall find , '' say the giant once more .
`` But do not go into any of the room that I speak of yesterday , or I will wring your head off , '' say he , and then go away with his flock of goat .
`` Yes , indeed , you be a kind master , '' say the Prince ; `` but I will go in and talk to the Master-maid again ; perhaps before long she may like good to be mine than yours . ''
So he go to her .
Then she ask him what he have to do that day .
`` Oh !
not very dangerous work , I fancy , '' say the King 's son .
`` I have only to go up the mountain-side after his horse . ''
`` Well , how do you mean to set about it ? ''
ask the Master-maid .
`` Oh !
there be no great art in rid a horse home , '' say the King 's son .
`` I think I must have ride frisky horse before now . ''
`` Yes , but it be not so easy a thing a you think to ride the horse home , '' say the Master-maid ; `` but I will teach you what to do .
When you go near it , fire will burst out of it nostril like flame from a pine torch ; but be very careful , and take the bridle which be hang by the door there , and fling the bit straight into his jaw , and then it will become so tame that you will be able to do what you like with it . ''
He say he would bear this in mind , and then he again sit in there the whole day by the Master-maid , and they chat and talk of one thing and another , but the first thing and the last now be , how happy and delightful it would be if they could but marry each other , and get safely away from the giant ; and the Prince would have forget both the mountain-side and the horse if the Master-maid have not remind him of them a even drew near , and say that now it would be well if he go to fetch the horse before the giant come .
So he do this , and take the bridle which be hang on a crook , and stride up the mountain-side , and it be not long before he meet with the horse , and fire and red flame stream forth out of it nostril .
But the youth carefully watch his opportunity , and just a it be rush at him with open jaw he throw the bit straight into it mouth , and the horse stand as quiet a a young lamb , and there be no difficulty at all in get it home to the stable .
Then the Prince go back into his room again , and begin to hum and to sing .
Toward even the giant come home .
`` Have you fetch the horse back from the mountain-side ? ''
he ask .
`` That I have , master ; it be an amusing horse to ride , but I ride him straight home , and put him in the stable too , '' say the Prince .
`` I will see about that , '' say the giant , and go out to the stable , but the horse be stand there just a the Prince have say .
`` You have certainly be talk with my Master-maid , for you never get that out of your own head , '' say the giant again .
`` Yesterday , master , you talk about this Master-maid , and to-day you be talk about her ; ah , heaven bless you , master , why will you not show me the thing ?
for it would be a real pleasure to me to see it , '' say the Prince , who again pretend to be silly and stupid .
`` Oh !
you will see her quite soon enough , '' say the giant .
On the morning of the third day the giant again have to go into the wood with the goat .
`` To-day you must go underground and fetch my tax , '' he say to the Prince .
`` When you have do this , you may rest for the remainder of the day , for you shall see what an easy master you have come to , '' and then he go away .
`` Well , however easy a master you may be , you set me very hard work to do , '' think the Prince ; `` but I will see if I can not find your Master-maid ; you say she be yours , but for all that she may be able to tell me what to do now , '' and he go back to her .
So , when the Master-maid ask him what the giant have set him to do that day , he tell her that he be to go underground and get the tax .
`` And how will you set about that ? ''
say the Master-maid .
`` Oh !
you must tell me how to do it , '' say the Prince , `` for I have never yet be underground , and even if I know the way I do not know how much I be to demand . ''
`` Oh !
yes , I will soon tell you that ; you must go to the rock there under the mountain-ridge , and take the club that be there , and knock on the rocky wall , '' say the Master-maid .
`` Then someone will come out who will sparkle with fire ; you shall tell him your errand , and when he ask you how much you want to have you be to say : ` As much a I can carry . ' ''
`` Yes , I will keep that in mind , '' say he , and then he sit there with the Master-maid the whole day , until night draw near , and he would gladly have stay there till now if the Master-maid have not remind him that it be time to be off to fetch the tax before the giant come .
So he set out on his way , and do exactly what the Master-maid have tell him .
He go to the rocky wall , and take the club , and knock on it .
Then come one so full of spark that they fly both out of his eye and his nose .
`` What do you want ? ''
say he .
`` I be to come here for the giant , and demand the tax for him , '' say the King 's son .
`` How much be you to have then ? ''
say the other .
`` I ask for no more than I be able to carry with me , '' say the Prince .
`` It be well for you that you have not ask for a horse-load , '' say he who have come out of the rock .
`` But now come in with me . ''
This the Prince do , and what a quantity of gold and silver he saw !
It be lie inside the mountain like heap of stone in a waste place , and he get a load that be as large a he be able to carry , and with that he go his way .
So in the evening , when the giant come home with the goat , the Prince go into the chamber and hum and sang again a he have do on the other two evening .
`` Have you be for the tax ? ''
say the giant .
`` Yes , that I have , master , '' say the Prince .
`` Where have you put it then ? ''
say the giant again .
`` The bag of gold be stand there on the bench , '' say the Prince .
`` I will see about that , '' say the giant , and go away to the bench , but the bag be stand there , and it be so full that gold and silver drop out when the giant untie the string .
`` You have certainly be talk with my Master-maid ! ''
say the giant , `` and if you have I will wring your neck . ''
`` Master-maid ? ''
say the Prince ; `` yesterday my master talk about this Master-maid , and to-day he be talk about her again , and the first day of all it be talk of the same kind .
I do wish I could see the thing myself , '' say he .
`` Yes , yes , wait till to-morrow , '' say the giant , `` and then I myself will take you to her . ''
`` Ah !
master , I thank you -- but you be only mock me , '' say the King 's son .
Next day the giant take him to the Master-maid .
`` Now you shall kill him , and boil him in the great big cauldron you know of , and when you have get the broth ready give me a call , '' say the giant ; then he lay down on the bench to sleep , and almost immediately begin to snore so that it sound like thunder among the hill .
So the Master-maid take a knife , and cut the Prince 's little finger , and drop three drop of blood upon a wooden stool ; then she take all the old rag , and shoe-soles , and all the rubbish she could lay hand on , and put them in the cauldron ; and then she fill a chest with gold dust , and a lump of salt , and a water-flask which be hang by the door , and she also take with her a golden apple , and two gold chicken ; and then she and the Prince go away with all the speed they could , and when they have go a little way they come to the sea , and then they sail , but where they get the ship from I have never be able to learn .
Now , when the giant have sleep a good long time , he begin to stretch himself on the bench on which he be lie .
`` Will it soon boil ? ''
say he .
`` It be just begin , '' say the first drop of blood on the stool .
So the giant lay down to sleep again , and slept for a long , long time .
Then he begin to move about a little again .
`` Will it soon be ready now ? ''
say he , but he do not look up this time any more than he have do the first time , for he be still half asleep .
`` Half do ! ''
say the second drop of blood , and the giant believe it be the Master-maid again , and turn himself on the bench , and lay down to sleep once more .
When he have sleep again for many hour , he begin to move and stretch himself .
`` Is it not do yet ? ''
say he .
`` It be quite ready , '' say the third drop of blood .
Then the giant begin to sit up and rub his eye , but he could not see who it be who have speak to him , so he ask for the Master-maid , and call her .
But there be no one to give him an answer .
`` Ah !
well , she have just steal out for a little , '' think the giant , and he take a spoon , and go off to the cauldron to have a taste ; but there be nothing in it but shoe-soles , and rag , and such trumpery a that , and all be boil up together , so that he could not tell whether it be porridge or milk pottage .
When he saw this , he understand what have happen , and fell into such a rage that he hardly know what he be do .
Away he go after the Prince and the Master-maid so fast that the wind whistle behind him , and it be not long before he come to the water , but he could not get over it .
`` Well , well , I will soon find a cure for that ; I have only to call my river-sucker , '' say the giant , and he do call him .
So his river-sucker come and lay down , and drink one , two , three draught , and with that the water in the sea fell so low that the giant saw the Master-maid and the Prince out on the sea in their ship .
`` Now you must throw out the lump of salt , '' say the Master-maid , and the Prince do so , and it grow up into such a great high mountain right across the sea that the giant could not come over it , and the river-sucker could not drink any more water .
`` Well , well , I will soon find a cure for that , '' say the giant , so he call to his hill-borer to come and bore through the mountain so that the river-sucker might be able to drink up the water again .
But just a the hole be make , and the river-sucker be begin to drink , the Master-maid tell the Prince to throw one or two drop out of the flask , and when he do this the sea instantly become full of water again , and before the river-sucker could take one drink they reach the land and be in safety .
So they determine to go home to the Prince 's father , but the Prince would on no account permit the Master-maid to walk there , for he think that it be unbecoming either for her or for him to go on foot .
`` Wait here the least little bit of time , while I go home for the seven horse which stand in my father 's stable , '' say he ; `` it be not far off , and I shall not be long away , but I will not let my betrothed bride go on foot to the palace . ''
`` Oh !
no , do not go , for if you go home to the King 's palace you will forget me , I foresee that . ''
`` How could I forget you ?
We have suffer so much evil together , and love each other so much , '' say the Prince ; and he insist on go home for the coach with the seven horse , and she be to wait for him there , by the sea-shore .
So at last the Master-maid have to yield , for he be so absolutely determine to do it .
`` But when you get there you must not even give yourself time to greet anyone , but go straight into the stable , and take the horse , and put them in the coach , and drive back as quickly a you can .
For they will all come round about you ; but you must behave just a if you do not see them , and on no account must you taste anything , for if you do it will cause great misery both to you and to me , '' say she ; and this he promise .
But when he get home to the King 's palace one of his brother be just go to be marry , and the bride and all her kith and kin have come to the palace ; so they all throng round him , and question him about this and that , and want him to go in with them ; but he behave a if he do not see them , and go straight to the stable , and get out the horse and begin to harness them .
When they saw that they could not by any mean prevail on him to go in with them , they come out to him with meat and drink , and the best of everything that they have prepare for the wedding ; but the Prince refuse to touch anything , and would do nothing but put the horse in as quickly a he could .
At last , however , the bride 's sister roll an apple across the yard to him , and say : `` As you wo n't eat anything else , you may like to take a bite of that , for you must be both hungry and thirsty after your long journey . ''
And he take up the apple and bite a piece out of it .
But no sooner have he get the piece of apple in his mouth than he forget the Master-maid and that he be to go back in the coach to fetch her .
`` I think I must be mad !
what do I want with this coach and horse ? ''
say he ; and then he put the horse back into the stable , and go into the King 's palace , and there it be settle that he should marry the bride 's sister , who have roll the apple to him .
The Master-maid sat by the sea-shore for a long , long time , wait for the Prince , but no Prince come .
So she go away , and when she have walk a short distance she come to a little hut which stand all alone in a small wood , hard by the King 's palace .
She enter it and ask if she might be allow to stay there .
The hut belong to an old crone , who be also an ill-tempered and malicious troll .
At first she would not let the Master-maid remain with her ; but at last , after a long time , by mean of good word and good payment , she obtain leave .
But the hut be a dirty and black inside a a pigsty , so the Master-maid say that she would smarten it up a little , that it might look a little more like what other people 's house look inside .
The old crone do not like this either .
She scowl , and be very cross , but the Master-maid do not trouble herself about that .
She take out her chest of gold , and fling a handful of it or so into the fire , and the gold boil up and pour out over the whole of the hut , until every part of it both inside and out be gild .
But when the gold begin to bubble up the old hag grow so terrified that she flee a if the Evil One himself be pursue her , and she do not remember to stoop down a she go through the doorway , and so she split her head and die .
Next morning the sheriff come travel by there .
He be greatly astonish when he saw the gold hut shin and glitter there in the copse , and he be still more astonished when he go in and catch sight of the beautiful young maiden who be sit there ; he fell in love with her at once , and straightway on the spot he beg her , both prettily and kindly , to marry him .
`` Well , but have you a great deal of money ? ''
say the Master-maid .
`` Oh !
yes ; so far a that be concern , I be not ill off , '' say the sheriff .
So now he have to go home to get the money , and in the evening he come back , bring with him a bag with two bushel in it , which he set down on the bench .
Well , a he have such a fine lot of money , the Master-maid say she would have him , so they sit down to talk .
But scarcely have they sit down together before the Master-maid want to jump up again .
`` I have forget to see to the fire , '' she say .
`` Why should you jump up to do that ? ''
say the sheriff ; `` I will do that ! ''
So he jump up , and go to the chimney in one bound .
`` Just tell me when you have get hold of the shovel , '' say the Master-maid .
`` Well , I have hold of it now , '' say the sheriff .
`` Then you may hold the shovel , and the shovel you , and pour red-hot coal over you , till day dawn , '' say the Master-maid .
So the sheriff have to stand there the whole night and pour red-hot coal over himself , and , no matter how much he cry and beg and entreat , the red-hot coal do not grow the colder for that .
When the day begin to dawn , and he have power to throw down the shovel , he do not stay long where he be , but run away as fast a he possibly could ; and everyone who meet him star and look after him , for he be fly a if he be mad , and he could not have look bad if he have be both flay and tan , and everyone wonder where he have be , but for very shame he would tell nothing .
The next day the attorney come riding by the place where the Master-maid dwelt .
He saw how brightly the hut shone and gleam through the wood , and he too go into it to see who live there , and when he enter and saw the beautiful young maiden he fell even more in love with her than the sheriff have do , and begin to woo her at once .
So the Master-maid ask him , a she have ask the sheriff , if he have a great deal of money , and the attorney say he be not ill off for that , and would at once go home to get it ; and at night he come with a great big sack of money -- this time it be a four-bushel sack -- and set it on the bench by the Master-maid .
So she promise to have him , and he sit down on the bench by her to arrange about it , but suddenly she say that she have forget to lock the door of the porch that night , and must do it .
`` Why should you do that ? ''
say the attorney ; `` sit still , I will do it . ''
So he be on his foot in a moment , and out in the porch .
`` Tell me when you have get hold of the door-latch , '' say the Master-maid .
`` I have hold of it now , '' cry the attorney .
`` Then you may hold the door , and the door you , and may you go between wall and wall till day dawn . ''
What a dance the attorney have that night !
He have never have such a waltz before , and he never wish to have such a dance again .
Sometimes he be in front of the door , and sometimes the door be in front of him , and it go from one side of the porch to the other , till the attorney be well-nigh beaten to death .
At first he begin to abuse the Master-maid , and then to beg and pray , but the door do not care for anything but keep him where he be till break of day .
As soon a the door let go it hold of him , off go the attorney .
He forget who ought to be pay off for what he have suffer , he forget both his sack of money and his wooing , for he be so afraid l the house-door should come dancing after him .
Everyone who meet him star and look after him , for he be fly like a madman , and he could not have look bad if a herd of ram have be butt at him all night long .
On the third day the bailiff come by , and he too saw the gold house in the little wood , and he too felt that he must go and see who live there ; and when he catch sight of the Master-maid he become so much in love with her that he woo her almost before he greet her .
The Master-maid answer him a she have answer the other two , that if he have a great deal of money , she would have him .
`` So far a that be concern , I be not ill off , '' say the bailiff ; so he be at once tell to go home and fetch it , and this he do .
At night he come back , and he have a still large sack of money with him than the attorney have bring ; it must have be at least six bushel , and he set it down on the bench .
So it be settle that he be to have the Master-maid .
But hardly have they sit down together before she say that she have forget to bring in the calf , and must go out to put it in the byre .
`` No , indeed , you shall not do that , '' say the bailiff ; `` I be the one to do that . ''
And , big and fat a he be , he go out as briskly a a boy .
`` Tell me when you have get hold of the calf 's tail , '' say the Master-maid .
`` I have hold of it now , '' cry the bailiff .
`` Then may you hold the calf 's tail , and the calf 's tail hold you , and may you go round the world together till day dawn ! ''
say the Master-maid .
So the bailiff have to bestir himself , for the calf go over rough and smooth , over hill and dale , and , the more the bailiff cry and scream , the fast the calf go .
When daylight begin to appear , the bailiff be half dead ; and so glad be he to leave loose of the calf 's tail , that he forget the sack of money and all else .
He walk now slowly -- more slowly than the sheriff and the attorney have do , but , the slower he go , the more time have everyone to stare and look at him ; and they use it too , and no one can imagine how tired out and rag he look after his dance with the calf .
On the following day the wedding be to take place in the King 's palace , and the elder brother be to drive to church with his bride , and the brother who have be with the giant with her sister .
But when they have seat themselves in the coach and be about to drive off from the palace one of the trace-pins break , and , though they make one , two , and three to put in it place , that do not help them , for each broke in turn , no matter what kind of wood they use to make them of .
This go on for a long time , and they could not get away from the palace , so they be all in great trouble .
Then the sheriff say -LRB- for he too have be bid to the wedding at Court -RRB- : `` Yonder away in the thicket dwell a maiden , and if you can get her to lend you the handle of the shovel that she use to make up her fire I know very well that it will hold fast . ''
So they send off a messenger to the thicket , and beg so prettily that they might have the loan of her shovel-handle of which the sheriff have speak that they be not refuse ; so now they have a trace-pin which would not snap in two .
But all at once , just a they be start , the bottom of the coach fell in piece .
They make a new bottom as fast a they could , but , no matter how they nail it together , or what kind of wood they use , no sooner have they get the new bottom into the coach and be about to drive off than it break again , so that they be still bad off than when they have break the trace-pin .
Then the attorney say , for he too be at the wedding in the palace : `` Away there in the thicket dwell a maiden , and if you could but get her to lend you one-half of her porch-door I be certain that it will hold together . ''
So they again send a messenger to the thicket , and beg so prettily for the loan of the gilded porch-door of which the attorney have tell them that they get it at once .
