_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Yellow_Fairy_Book.txt.out
THE YELLOW FAIRY BOOK THE CAT AND THE MOUSE IN PARTNERSHIP A cat have make acquaintance with a mouse , and have speak so much of the great love and friendship she felt for her , that at last the Mouse consent to live in the same house with her , and to go share in the housekeeping .
` But we must provide for the winter or else we shall suffer hunger , ' say the Cat .
` You , little Mouse , can not venture everywhere in case you run at last into a trap . '
This good counsel be follow , and a little pot of fat be buy .
But they do not know where to put it .
At length , after long consultation , the Cat say , ' I know of no place where it could be good put than in the church .
No one will trouble to take it away from there .
We will hide it in a corner , and we wo n't touch it till we be in want . '
So the little pot be place in safety ; but it be not long before the Cat have a great longing for it , and say to the Mouse , ' I want to tell you , little Mouse , that my cousin have a little son , white with brown spot , and she want me to be godmother to it .
Let me go out to-day , and do you take care of the house alone . '
` Yes , go certainly , ' reply the Mouse , ` and when you eat anything good , think of me ; I should very much like a drop of the red christening wine . '
But it be all untrue .
The Cat have no cousin , and have not be ask to be godmother .
She go straight to the church , slunk to the little pot of fat , begin to lick it , and lick the top off .
Then she take a walk on the roof of the town , look at the view , stretch herself out in the sun , and lick her lip whenever she think of the little pot of fat .
As soon a it be even she go home again .
` Ah , here you be again ! '
say the Mouse ; ` you must certainly have have an enjoyable day . '
` It go off very well , ' answer the Cat .
` What be the child 's name ? '
ask the Mouse .
` Top Off , ' say the Cat drily .
` Topoff ! '
echo the Mouse , ` it be indeed a wonderful and curious name .
Is it in your family ? '
` What be there odd about it ? '
say the Cat .
` It be not bad than Breadthief , a your godchild be call . '
Not long after this another great longing come over the Cat .
She say to the Mouse , ` You must again be kind enough to look after the house alone , for I have be ask a second time to stand godmother , and a this child have a white ring round it neck , I can not refuse . '
The kind Mouse agree , but the Cat slunk under the town wall to the church , and eat up half of the pot of fat .
` Nothing taste well , ' say she , ` than what one eats by oneself , ' and she be very much pleased with her day 's work .
When she come home the Mouse ask , ` What be this child call ? '
` Half Gone , ' answer the Cat .
` Halfgone !
what a name !
I have never hear it in my life .
I do n't believe it be in the calendar . '
Soon the Cat 's mouth begin to water once more after her licking business .
` All good thing in three , ' she say to the Mouse ; ' I have again to stand godmother .
The child be quite black , and have very white paw , but not a single white hair on it body .
This only happen once in two year , so you will let me go out ? '
` Topoff !
Halfgone ! '
repeat the Mouse , ` they be such curious name ; they make me very thoughtful . '
` Oh , you sit at home in your dark grey coat and your long tail , ' say the Cat , ` and you get fanciful .
That come of not go out in the day . '
The Mouse have a good cleaning out while the Cat be go , and make the house tidy ; but the greedy Cat eat the fat every bit up .
` When it be all go one can be at rest , ' she say to herself , and at night she come home sleek and satisfy .
The Mouse ask at once after the third child 's name .
` It wo n't please you any good , ' say the Cat , ` he be call Clean Gone . '
` Cleangone ! '
repeat the Mouse . '
I do not believe that name have be print any more than the others .
Cleangone !
What can it mean ? '
She shake her head , curl herself up , and go to sleep .
From this time on no one ask the Cat to stand godmother ; but when the winter come and there be nothing to be get outside , the Mouse remember their provision and say , ` Come , Cat , we will go to our pot of fat which we have store away ; it will taste very good . '
` Yes , indeed , ' answer the Cat ; ` it will taste as good to you a if you stretch your thin tongue out of the window . '
They start off , and when they reach it they find the pot in it place , but quite empty !
` Ah , ' say the Mouse , ' ` now I know what have happen !
It have all come out !
You be a true friend to me !
You have eat it all when you stand godmother ; first the top off , then half of it go , then -- ' ` Will you be quiet ! '
scream the Cat .
` Another word and I will eat you up . '
` Clean-gone ' be already on the poor Mouse 's tongue , and scarcely be it out than the Cat make a spring at her , seize and swallow her .
You see that be the way of the world .
THE SIX SWANS A king be once hunt in a great wood , and he hunt the game so eagerly that none of his courtier could follow him .
When even come on he stand still and look round him , and he saw that he have quite lose himself .
He seek a way out , but could find none .
Then he saw an old woman with a shake head come towards him ; but she be a witch .
` Good woman , ' he say to her , ` can you not show me the way out of the wood ? '
` Oh , certainly , Sir King , ' she reply , ' I can quite well do that , but on one condition , which if you do not fulfil you will never get out of the wood , and will die of hunger . '
` What be the condition ? '
ask the King . '
I have a daughter , ' say the old woman , ` who be so beautiful that she have not her equal in the world , and be well fit to be your wife ; if you will make her lady-queen I will show you the way out of the wood . '
The King in his anguish of mind consent , and the old woman lead him to her little house where her daughter be sit by the fire .
She receive the King a if she be expect him , and he saw that she be certainly very beautiful ; but she do not please him , and he could not look at her without a secret feeling of horror .
As soon a he have lift the maiden on to his horse the old woman show him the way , and the King reach his palace , where the wedding be celebrate .
The King have already be marry once , and have by his first wife seven child , six boy and one girl , whom he love more than anything in the world .
And now , because he be afraid that their stepmother might not treat them well and might do them harm , he put them in a lonely castle that stand in the middle of a wood .
It lay so hidden , and the way to it be so hard to find , that he himself could not have find it out have not a wise-woman give him a reel of thread which possess a marvellous property : when he throw it before him it unwind itself and show him the way .
But the King go so often to his dear child that the Queen be offend at his absence .
She grow curious , and want to know what he have to do quite alone in the wood .
She give his servant a great deal of money , and they betray the secret to her , and also tell her of the reel which alone could point out the way .
She have no rest now till she have find out where the King guard the reel , and then she make some little white shirt , and , a she have learnt from her witch-mother , sew an enchantment in each of them .
And when the King have ride off she take the little shirt and go into the wood , and the reel show her the way .
The child , who saw someone come in the distance , think it be their dear father come to them , and sprang to meet him very joyfully .
Then she throw over each one a little shirt , which when it have touch their body change them into swan , and they fly away over the forest .
The Queen go home quite satisfied , and think she have get rid of her step-children ; but the girl have not run to meet her with her brother , and she know nothing of her .
The next day the King come to visit his child , but he find no one but the girl .
` Where be your brother ? '
ask the King .
` Alas !
dear father , ' she answer , ` they have go away and leave me all alone . '
And she tell him that look out of her little window she have see her brother fly over the wood in the shape of swan , and she show him the feather which they have let fall in the yard , and which she have collect .
The King mourn , but he do not think that the Queen have do the wicked deed , and a he be afraid the maiden would also be take from him , he want to take her with him .
But she be afraid of the stepmother , and beg the King to let her stay just one night more in the castle in the wood .
The poor maiden thought , ` My home be no longer here ; I will go and seek my brother . '
And when night come she flee away into the forest .
She run all through the night and the next day , till she could go no farther for weariness .
Then she saw a little hut , go in , and find a room with six little bed .
She be afraid to lie down on one , so she creep under one of them , lay on the hard floor , and be go to spend the night there .
But when the sun have set she hear a noise , and saw six swan fly in at the window .
They stand on the floor and blew at one another , and blow all their feather off , and their swan-skin come off like a shirt .
Then the maiden recognise her brother , and overjoy she creep out from under the bed .
Her brother be not less delighted than she to see their little sister again , but their joy do not last long .
` You can not stay here , ' they say to her .
` This be a den of robber ; if they be to come here and find you they would kill you . '
` Could you not protect me ? '
ask the little sister .
` No , ' they answer , ` for we can only lay aside our swan skin for a quarter of an hour every evening .
For this time we regain our human form , but then we be change into swan again . '
Then the little sister cry and say , ` Can you not be free ? '
` Oh , no , ' they say , ` the condition be too hard .
You must not speak or laugh for six year , and must make in that time six shirt for u out of star-flowers .
If a single word come out of your mouth , all your labour be vain . '
And when the brother have say this the quarter of an hour come to an end , and they fly away out of the window a swan .
But the maiden have determine to free her brother even if it should cost her her life .
She leave the hut , go into the forest , climb a tree , and spend the night there .
The next morning she go out , collect star-flowers , and begin to sew .
She could speak to no one , and she have no wish to laugh , so she sit there , look only at her work .
When she have live there some time , it happen that the King of the country be hunt in the forest , and his hunter come to the tree on which the maiden sat .
They call to her and say ` Who be you ? '
But she give no answer .
` Come down to u , ' they say , ` we will do you no harm . '
But she shake her head silently .
As they press her further with question , she throw them the golden chain from her neck .
But they do not leave off , and she throw them her girdle , and when this be no use , her garter , and then her dress .
The huntsman would not leave her alone , but climb the tree , lift the maiden down , and lead her to the King .
The King ask , ` Who be you ?
What be you do up that tree ? '
But she answer nothing .
He ask her in all the language he know , but she remain as dumb a a fish .
Because she be so beautiful , however , the King 's heart be touch , and he be seize with a great love for her .
He wrap her up in his cloak , place her before him on his horse , and bring her to his castle .
There he have her dress in rich clothes , and her beauty shone out as bright a day , but not a word could be draw from her .
He set her at table by his side , and her modest way and behaviour please him so much that he say , ' I will marry this maiden and none other in the world , ' and after some day he marry her .
But the King have a wicked mother who be displease with the marriage , and say wicked thing of the young Queen .
` Who know who this girl be ? '
she say ; ` she can not speak , and be not worthy of a king . '
After a year , when the Queen have her first child , the old mother take it away from her .
Then she go to the King and say that the Queen have kill it .
The King would not believe it , and would not allow any harm to be do her .
But she sit quietly sew at the shirt and trouble herself about nothing .
The next time she have a child the wicked mother do the same thing , but the King could not make up his mind to believe her .
He say , ` She be too sweet and good to do such a thing a that .
If she be not dumb and could defend herself , her innocence would be prove . '
But when the third child be take away , and the Queen be again accuse , and could not utter a word in her own defence , the King be oblige to give her over to the law , which decree that she must be burn to death .
When the day come on which the sentence be to be execute , it be the last day of the six year in which she must not speak or laugh , and now she have free her dear brother from the power of the enchantment .
The six shirt be do ; there be only the left sleeve want to the last .
When she be lead to the stake , she lay the shirt on her arm , and a she stand on the pile and the fire be about to be light , she look around her and saw six swan fly through the air .
Then she know that her release be at hand and her heart dance for joy .
The swan flutter round her , and hover low so that she could throw the shirt over them .
When they have touch them the swan-skins fell off , and her brother stand before her living , well and beautiful .
Only the young have a swan 's wing instead of his left arm .
They embrace and kiss each other , and the Queen go to the King , who be stand by in great astonishment , and begin to speak to him , say , ` Dearest husband , now I can speak and tell you openly that I be innocent and have be falsely accuse . '
She tell him of the old woman 's deceit , and how she have take the three child away and hide them .
Then they be fetch , to the great joy of the King , and the wicked mother come to no good end .
But the King and the Queen with their six brother live many year in happiness and peace .
THE DRAGON OF THE NORTH -LRB- 2 -RRB- -LRB- 2 -RRB- ` Der Norlands Drache , ' from Esthnische Mahrchen .
Kreutzwald .
Very long ago , a old people have tell me , there live a terrible monster , who come out of the North , and lay waste whole tract of country , devour both men and beast ; and this monster be so destructive that it be fear that unless help come no living creature would be leave on the face of the earth .
It have a body like an ox , and leg like a frog , two short fore-legs , and two long one behind , and besides that it have a tail like a serpent , ten fathom in length .
When it move it jump like a frog , and with every spring it cover half a mile of ground .
Fortunately it habit , be to remain for several year in the same place , and not to move on till the whole neighbourhood be eat up .
Nothing could hunt it , because it whole body be cover with scale , which be hard than stone or metal ; it two great eye shone by night , and even by day , like the bright lamp , and anyone who have the ill luck to look into those eye become a it be bewitch , and be oblige to rush of his own accord into the monster 's jaw .
In this way the Dragon be able to fee upon both men and beast without the least trouble to itself , a it need not to move from the spot where it be lie .
All the neighbouring king have offer rich reward to anyone who should be able to destroy the monster , either by force or enchantment , and many have try their luck , but all have miserably fail .
Once a great forest in which the Dragon lay have be set on fire ; the forest be burnt down , but the fire do not do the monster the least harm .
However , there be a tradition amongst the wise men of the country that the Dragon might be overcome by one who possess King Solomon 's signet-ring , upon which a secret writing be engrave .
This inscription would enable anyone who be wise enough to interpret it to find out how the Dragon could be destroy .
Only no one know where the ring be hide , nor be there any sorcerer or learn man to be find who would be able to explain the inscription .
At last a young man , with a good heart and plenty of courage , set out to search for the ring .
He take his way towards the sunrising , because he know that all the wisdom of old time come from the East .
After some year he meet with a famous Eastern magician , and ask for his advice in the matter .
The magician answered : ` Mortal men have but little wisdom , and can give you no help , but the bird of the air would be good guide to you if you could learn their language .
I can help you to understand it if you will stay with me a few day . '
The youth thankfully accept the magician 's offer , and say , ' I can not now offer you any reward for your kindness , but should my undertake succeed your trouble shall be richly repay . '
Then the magician brew a powerful potion out of nine sort of herb which he have gather himself all alone by moonlight , and he give the youth nine spoonful of it daily for three day , which make him able to understand the language of bird .
At part the magician say to him .
` If you ever find Solomon 's ring and get possession of it , then come back to me , that I may explain the inscription on the ring to you , for there be no one else in the world who can do this . '
From that time the youth never felt lonely a he walk along ; he always have company , because he understand the language of bird ; and in this way he learn many thing which mere human knowledge could never have teach him .
But time go on , and he hear nothing about the ring .
It happen one evening , when he be hot and tired with walking , and have sit down under a tree in a forest to eat his supper , that he saw two gaily-plumaged bird , that be strange to him , sit at the top of the tree talk to one another about him .
The first bird say : ' I know that wander fool under the tree there , who have come so far without find what he seek .
He be try to find King Solomon 's lose ring . '
The other bird answer , ` He will have to seek help from the Witch-maiden , -LRB- 3 -RRB- who will doubtless be able to put him on the right track .
If she have not get the ring herself , she know well enough who have it . '
-LRB- 3 -RRB- Hollenmadchen .
` But where be he to find the Witch-maiden ? '
say the first bird .
` She have no settle dwelling , but be here to-day and go to-morrow .
He might as well try to catch the wind . '
The other reply , ' I do not know , certainly , where she be at present , but in three night from now she will come to the spring to wash her face , a she do every month when the moon be full , in order that she may never grow old nor wrinkled , but may always keep the bloom of youth . '
` Well , ' say the first bird , ` the spring be not far from here .
Shall we go and see how it be she do it ? '
` Willingly , if you like , ' say the other .
The youth immediately resolve to follow the bird to the spring , only two thing make him uneasy : first , l he might be asleep when the bird go , and secondly , l he might lose sight of them , since he have not wing to carry him along so swiftly .
He be too tired to keep awake all night , yet his anxiety prevent him from sleep soundly , and when with the early dawn he look up to the tree-top , he be glad to see his feathered companion still asleep with their head under their wing .
He eat his breakfast , and wait until the bird should start , but they do not leave the place all day .
They hop about from one tree to another look for food , all day long until the evening , when they go back to their old perch to sleep .
The next day the same thing happen , but on the third morning one bird say to the other , ` To-day we must go to the spring to see the Witch-maiden wash her face . '
They remain on the tree till noon ; then they fly away and go towards the south .
The young man 's heart beat with anxiety lest he should lose sight of his guide , but he manage to keep the bird in view until they again perch upon a tree .
The young man run after them until he be quite exhaust and out of breath , and after three short rest the bird at length reach a small open space in the forest , on the edge of which they place themselves on the top of a high tree .
When the youth have overtake them , he saw that there be a clear spring in the middle of the space .
He sit down at the foot of the tree upon which the bird be perch , and listen attentively to what they be say to each other .
` The sun be not down yet , ' say the first bird ; ` we must wait yet awhile till the moon rise and the maiden come to the spring .
Do you think she will see that young man sit under the tree ? '
` Nothing be likely to escape her eye , certainly not a young man , say the other bird .
` Will the youth have the sense not to let himself be catch in her toil ? '
` We will wait , ' say the first bird , ` and see how they get on together . '
The evening light have quite fade , and the full moon be already shin down upon the forest , when the young man hear a slight rustling sound .
After a few moment there come out of the forest a maiden , glide over the grass so lightly that her foot seem scarcely to touch the ground , and stand beside the spring .
The youth could not turn away his eye from the maiden , for he have never in his life see a woman so beautiful .
Without seem to notice anything , she go to the spring , look up to the full moon , then kneel down and bath her face nine time , then look up to the moon again and walk nine time round the well , and a she walk she sing this song : ` Full-faced moon with light unshaded , Let my beauty ne'er be fade .
Never let my cheek grow pale !
While the moon be wan nightly , May the maiden bloom more brightly , May her freshness never fail ! '
Then she dry her face with her long hair , and be about to go away , when her eye suddenly fell upon the spot where the young man be sit , and she turn towards the tree .
The youth rise and stand wait .
Then the maiden say , ` You ought to have a heavy punishment because you have presume to watch my secret doings in the moonlight .
But I will forgive you this time , because you be a stranger and know no good .
But you must tell me truly who you be and how you come to this place , where no mortal have ever set foot before . '
The youth answer humbly : ` Forgive me , beautiful maiden , if I have unintentionally offend you .
I chance to come here after long wandering , and find a good place to sleep under this tree .
At your come I do not know what to do , but stay where I be , because I think my silent watching could not offend you . '
The maiden answer kindly , ` Come and spend this night with u .
You will sleep good on a pillow than on damp moss . '
The youth hesitate for a little , but presently he hear the bird say from the top of the tree , ` Go where she call you , but take care to give no blood , or you will sell your soul . '
So the youth go with her , and soon they reach a beautiful garden , where stand a splendid house , which glitter in the moonlight a if it be all build out of gold and silver .
When the youth enter he find many splendid chamber , each one fine than the last .
Hundreds of taper burn upon golden candlestick , and shed a light like the bright day .
At length they reach a chamber where a table be spread with the most costly dish .
At the table be place two chair , one of silver , the other of gold .
The maiden seat herself upon the golden chair , and offer the silver one to her companion .
They be serve by maiden dress in white , whose foot make no sound a they move about , and not a word be speak during the meal .
Afterwards the youth and the Witch-maiden converse pleasantly together , until a woman , dress in red , come in to remind them that it be bedtime .
The youth be now show into another room , contain a silken bed with down cushion , where he sleep delightfully , yet he seem to hear a voice near his bed which repeat to him , ` Remember to give no blood ! '
The next morning the maiden ask him whether he would not like to stay with her always in this beautiful place , and a he do not answer immediately , she continue : ` You see how I always remain young and beautiful , and I be under no one 's order , but can do just what I like , so that I have never think of marry before .
But from the moment I saw you I take a fancy to you , so if you agree , we might be marry and might live together like prince , because I have great rich . '
The youth could not but be tempt with the beautiful maiden 's offer , but he remember how the bird have call her the witch , and their warning always sound in his ear .
Therefore he answer cautiously , ` Do not be angry , dear maiden , if I do not decide immediately on this important matter .
Give me a few day to consider before we come to an understanding . '
` Why not ? '
answer the maiden .
` Take some week to consider if you like , and take counsel with your own heart . '
And to make the time pas pleasantly , she take the youth over every part of her beautiful dwelling , and show him all her splendid treasure .
But these treasure be all produce by enchantment , for the maiden could make anything she wish appear by the help of King Solomon 's signet ring ; only none of these thing remain fix ; they pass away like the wind without leave a trace behind .
But the youth do not know this ; he think they be all real .
One day the maiden take him into a secret chamber , where a little gold box be stand on a silver table .
Pointing to the box , she say , ` Here be my great treasure , whose like be not to be find in the whole world .
It be a precious gold ring .
When you marry me , I will give you this ring a a marriage gift , and it will make you the happy of mortal men .
But in order that our love may last for ever , you must give me for the ring three drop of blood from the little finger of your left hand . '
When the youth heard these word a cold shudder run over him , for he remember that his soul be at stake .
He be cunning enough , however , to conceal his feeling and to make no direct answer , but he only ask the maiden , a if carelessly , what be remarkable about the ring ?
She answer , ` No mortal be able entirely to understand the power of this ring , because no one thoroughly understand the secret sign engrave upon it .
But even with my half-knowledge I can work great wonder .
If I put the ring upon the little finger of my left hand , then I can fly like a bird through the air wherever I wish to go .
If I put it on the third finger of my left hand I be invisible , and I can see everything that pass around me , though no one can see me .
If I put the ring upon the middle finger of my left hand , then neither fire nor water nor any sharp weapon can hurt me .
If I put it on the forefinger of my left hand , then I can with it help produce whatever I wish .
I can in a single moment build house or anything I desire .
Finally , as long a I wear the ring on the thumb of my left hand , that hand be so strong that it can break down rock and wall .
Besides these , the ring have other secret sign which , a I say , no one can understand .
No doubt it contain secret of great importance .
The ring formerly belong to King Solomon , the wise of king , during whose reign the wise men live .
But it be not know whether this ring be ever make by mortal hand : it be suppose that an angel give it to the wise King . '
When the youth heard all this he determine to try and get possession of the ring , though he do not quite believe in all it wonderful gift .
He wish the maiden would let him have it in his hand , but he do not quite like to ask her to do so , and after a while she put it back into the box .
A few day after they be again speak of the magic ring , and the youth say , ' I do not think it possible that the ring can have all the power you say it have . '
Then the maiden open the box and take the ring out , and it glitter a she hold it like the clear sunbeam .
She put it on the middle finger of her left hand , and tell the youth to take a knife and try as hard a he could to cut her with it , for he would not be able to hurt her .
He be unwilling at first , but the maiden insist .
Then he try , at first only in play , and then seriously , to strike her with the knife , but an invisible wall of iron seem to be between them , and the maiden stood before him laugh and unhurt .
Then she put the ring on her third finger , and in an instant she have vanish from his eye .
Presently she be beside him again laughing , and hold the ring between her finger .
` Do let me try , ' say the youth , ` whether I can do these wonderful thing . '
The maiden , suspect no treachery , give him the magic ring .
The youth pretend to have forget what to do , and ask what finger he must put the ring on so that no sharp weapon could hurt him ? '
` Oh , the middle finger of your left hand , ' the maiden answer , laugh .
She take the knife and try to strike the youth , and he even try to cut himself with it , but find it impossible .
Then he ask the maiden to show him how to split stone and rock with the help of the ring .
So she lead him into a courtyard where stand a great boulder-stone .
` Now , ' she say , ` put the ring upon the thumb of your left hand , and you will see how strong that hand have become .
The youth do so , and find to his astonishment that with a single blow of his fist the stone fly into a thousand piece .
Then the youth bethink him that he who do not use his luck when he have it be a fool , and that this be a chance which once lose might never return .
So while they stand laugh at the shattered stone he place the ring , a if in play , upon the third finger of his left hand .
` Now , ' say the maiden , ` you be invisible to me until you take the ring off again . '
But the youth have no mind to do that ; on the contrary , he go far off , then put the ring on the little finger of his left hand , and soar into the air like a bird .
When the maiden saw him fly away she think at first that he be still in play , and cry , ` Come back , friend , for now you see I have tell you the truth . '
But the young man never come back .
Then the maiden saw she be deceive , and bitterly repent that she have ever trust him with the ring .
The young man never halt in his flight until he reach the dwelling of the wise magician who have teach him the speech of bird .
The magician be delight to find that his search have be successful , and at once set to work to interpret the secret sign engrave upon the ring , but it take him seven week to make them out clearly .
Then he give the youth the following instruction how to overcome the Dragon of the North : ` You must have an iron horse cast , which must have little wheel under each foot .
You must also be arm with a spear two fathom long , which you will be able to wield by mean of the magic ring upon your left thumb .
The spear must be a thick in the middle a a large tree , and both it end must be sharp .
In the middle of the spear you must have two strong chain ten fathom in length .
As soon a the Dragon have make himself fast to the spear , which you must thrust through his jaw , you must spring quickly from the iron horse and fasten the end of the chain firmly to the ground with iron stake , so that he can not get away from them .
After two or three day the monster 's strength will be so far exhaust that you will be able to come near him .
Then you can put Solomon 's ring upon your left thumb and give him the finishing stroke , but keep the ring on your third finger until you have come close to him , so that the monster can not see you , else he might strike you dead with his long tail .
But when all be do , take care you do not lose the ring , and that no one take it from you by cunning . '
The young man thank the magician for his direction , and promise , should they succeed , to reward him .
But the magician answer , ' I have profit so much by the wisdom the ring have teach me that I desire no other reward . '
Then they part , and the youth quickly fly home through the air .
After remain in his own home for some week , he hear people say that the terrible Dragon of the North be not far off , and might shortly be expect in the country .
The King announce publicly that he would give his daughter in marriage , as well a a large part of his kingdom , to whosoever should free the country from the monster .
The youth then go to the King and tell him that he have good hope of subdue the Dragon , if the King would grant him all he desire for the purpose .
The King willingly agree , and the iron horse , the great spear , and the chain be all prepare a the youth request .
When all be ready , it be find that the iron horse be so heavy that a hundred men could not move it from the spot , so the youth find there be nothing for it but to move it with his own strength by mean of the magic ring .
The Dragon be now so near that in a couple of spring he would be over the frontier .
The youth now begin to consider how he should act , for if he have to push the iron horse from behind he could not ride upon it a the sorcerer have say he must .
But a raven unexpectedly give him this advice : ` Ride upon the horse , and push the spear against the ground , a if you be push off a boat from the land . '
The youth do so , and find that in this way he could easily move forward .
The Dragon have his monstrous jaw wide open , all ready for his expect prey .
A few pace nearer , and man and horse would have be swallow up by them !
The youth tremble with horror , and his blood run cold , yet he do not lose his courage ; but , hold the iron spear upright in his hand , he bring it down with all his might right through the monster 's low jaw .
Then quick a lightning he spring from his horse before the Dragon have time to shut his mouth .
A fearful clap like thunder , which could be hear for mile around , now warn him that the Dragon 's jaw have close upon the spear .
When the youth turn round he saw the point of the spear stick up high above the Dragon 's upper jaw , and know that the other end must be fasten firmly to the ground ; but the Dragon have get his teeth fix in the iron horse , which be now useless .
The youth now hasten to fasten down the chain to the ground by mean of the enormous iron peg which he have provide .
The death struggle of the monster last three day and three night ; in his writhing he beat his tail so violently against the ground , that at ten mile ' distance the earth tremble a if with an earthquake .
When he at length lose power to move his tail , the youth with the help of the ring take up a stone which twenty ordinary men could not have move , and beat the Dragon so hard about the head with it that very soon the monster lay lifeless before him .
You can fancy how great be the rejoicing when the news be spread abroad that the terrible monster be dead .
His conqueror be receive into the city with as much pomp a if he have be the mighty of king .
The old King do not need to urge his daughter to marry the slayer of the Dragon ; he find her already willing to bestow her hand upon this hero , who have do all alone what whole army have try in vain to do .
In a few day a magnificent wedding be celebrate , at which the rejoicing last four whole week , for all the neighbouring king have meet together to thank the man who have free the world from their common enemy .
But everyone forget amid the general joy that they ought to have bury the Dragon 's monstrous body , for it begin now to have such a bad smell that no one could live in the neighbourhood , and before long the whole air be poison , and a pestilence break out which destroy many hundred of people .
In this distress , the King 's son-in-law resolve to seek help once more from the Eastern magician , to whom he at once travel through the air like a bird by the help of the ring .
But there be a proverb which say that ill-gotten gain never prosper , and the Prince find that the steal ring bring him ill-luck after all .
The Witch-maiden have never rest night nor day until she have find out where the ring be .
As soon a she have discover by mean of magical art that the Prince in the form of a bird be on his way to the Eastern magician , she change herself into an eagle and watch in the air until the bird she be wait for come in sight , for she know him at once by the ring which be hung round his neck by a ribbon .
Then the eagle pounce upon the bird , and the moment she seize him in her talon she tear the ring from his neck before the man in bird 's shape have time to prevent her .
Then the eagle fly down to the earth with her prey , and the two stand face to face once more in human form .
` Now , villain , you be in my power ! '
cry the Witch-maiden . '
I favour you with my love , and you repay me with treachery and theft .
You steal my most precious jewel from me , and do you expect to live happily a the King 's son-in-law ?
Now the table be turn ; you be in my power , and I will be revenge on you for your crime . '
` Forgive me !
forgive me ! '
cry the Prince ; ' I know too well how deeply I have wrong you , and most heartily do I repent it . '
The maiden answer , ` Your prayer and your repentance come too late , and if I be to spare you everyone would think me a fool .
You have doubly wrong me ; first you scorn my love , and then you steal my ring , and you must bear the punishment . '
With these word she put the ring upon her left thumb , lift the young man with one hand , and walk away with him under her arm .
This time she do not take him to a splendid palace , but to a deep cave in a rock , where there be chain hang from the wall .
The maiden now chain the young man 's hand and foot so that he could not escape ; then she say in an angry voice , ` Here you shall remain chain up until you die .
I will bring you every day enough food to prevent you die of hunger , but you need never hope for freedom any more . '
With these word she leave him .
The old King and his daughter wait anxiously for many week for the Prince 's return , but no news of him arrive .
The King 's daughter often dream that her husband be go through some great suffering : she therefore beg her father to summon all the enchanter and magician , that they might try to find out where the Prince be and how he could be set free .
But the magician , with all their art , could find out nothing , except that he be still live and undergoing great suffering ; but none could tell where he be to be find .
At last a celebrated magician from Finland be bring before the King , who have find out that the King 's son-in-law be imprison in the East , not by men , but by some more powerful be .
The King now send messenger to the East to look for his son-in-law , and they by good luck meet with the old magician who have interpret the sign on King Solomon 's ring , and thus be possess of more wisdom than anyone else in the world .
The magician soon find out what he wish to know , and point out the place where the Prince be imprison , but say : ` He be keep there by enchantment , and can not be set free without my help .
I will therefore go with you myself . '
So they all set out , guide by bird , and after some day come to the cave where the unfortunate Prince have be chain up for nearly seven year .
He recognise the magician immediately , but the old man do not know him , he have grow so thin .
However , he undo the chain by the help of magic , and take care of the Prince until he recover and become strong enough to travel .
When he reach home he find that the old King have die that morning , so that he be now raise to the throne .
And now after his long suffering come prosperity , which last to the end of his life ; but he never get back the magic ring , nor have it ever again be see by mortal eye .
Now , if YOU have be the Prince , would you not rather have stay with the pretty witch-maiden ?
STORY OF THE EMPEROR 'S NEW CLOTHES -LRB- 4 -RRB- -LRB- 4 -RRB- Andersen .
Many year ago there live an Emperor who be so fond of new clothes that he spend all his money on them in order to be beautifully dress .
He do not care about his soldier , he do not care about the theatre ; he only like to go out walk to show off his new clothes .
He have a coat for every hour of the day ; and just a they say of a king , ` He be in the council-chamber , ' they always say here , ` The Emperor be in the wardrobe . '
In the great city in which he live there be always something go on ; every day many stranger come there .
One day two impostor arrive who give themselves out a weaver , and say that they know how to manufacture the most beautiful cloth imaginable .
Not only be the texture and pattern uncommonly beautiful , but the clothes which be make of the stuff possess this wonderful property that they be invisible to anyone who be not fit for his office , or who be unpardonably stupid .
` Those must indeed be splendid clothes , ' think the Emperor .
` If I have them on I could find out which men in my kingdom be unfit for the office they hold ; I could distinguish the wise from the stupid !
Yes , this cloth must be weave for me at once . '
And he give both the impostor much money , so that they might begin their work .
They place two weaving-looms , and begin to do a if they be work , but they have not the least thing on the loom .
They also demand the fine silk and the best gold , which they put in their pocket , and work at the empty loom till late into the night . '
I should like very much to know how far they have get on with the cloth , ' think the Emperor .
But he remember when he think about it that whoever be stupid or not fit for his office would not be able to see it .
Now he certainly believe that he have nothing to fear for himself , but he want first to send somebody else in order to see how he stand with regard to his office .
Everybody in the whole town know what a wonderful power the cloth have , and they be all curious to see how bad or how stupid their neighbour be . '
I will send my old and honoured minister to the weaver , ' think the Emperor .
` He can judge best what the cloth be like , for he have intellect , and no one understand his office well than he . '
Now the good old minister go into the hall where the two impostor sit work at the empty weaving-looms .
` Dear me ! '
think the old minister , open his eye wide , ' I can see nothing ! '
But he do not say so .
Both the impostor beg him to be so kind a to step close , and ask him if it be not a beautiful texture and lovely colour .
They point to the empty loom , and the poor old minister go forward rub his eye ; but he could see nothing , for there be nothing there .
` Dear , dear ! '
thought he , ` can I be stupid ?
I have never think that , and nobody must know it !
Can I be not fit for my office ?
No , I must certainly not say that I can not see the cloth ! '
` Have you nothing to say about it ? '
ask one of the men who be weave .
` Oh , it be lovely , most lovely ! '
answer the old minister , look through his spectacle .
` What a texture !
What colour !
Yes , I will tell the Emperor that it please me very much . '
` Now we be delight at that , ' say both the weaver , and thereupon they name the colour and explain the make of the texture .
The old minister pay great attention , so that he could tell the same to the Emperor when he come back to him , which he do .
The impostor now want more money , more silk , and more gold to use in their weaving .
They put it all in their own pocket , and there come no thread on the loom , but they go on a they have do before , work at the empty loom .
The Emperor soon send another worthy statesman to see how the weaving be get on , and whether the cloth would soon be finish .
It be the same with him a the first one ; he look and look , but because there be nothing on the empty loom he could see nothing .
` Is it not a beautiful piece of cloth ? '
ask the two impostor , and they point to and describe the splendid material which be not there .
` Stupid I be not ! '
think the man , ` so it must be my good office for which I be not fit .
It be strange , certainly , but no one must be allow to notice it . '
And so he praise the cloth which he do not see , and express to them his delight at the beautiful colour and the splendid texture .
` Yes , it be quite beautiful , ' he say to the Emperor .
Everybody in the town be talk of the magnificent cloth .
Now the Emperor want to see it himself while it be still on the loom .
With a great crowd of select follower , amongst whom be both the worthy statesman who have already be there before , he go to the cunning impostor , who be now weave with all their might , but without fibre or thread .
` Is it not splendid ! '
say both the old statesman who have already be there .
` See , your Majesty , what a texture !
What colour ! '
And then they point to the empty loom , for they believe that the others could see the cloth quite well .
` What ! '
think the Emperor , ' I can see nothing !
This be indeed horrible !
Am I stupid ?
Am I not fit to be Emperor ?
That be the most dreadful thing that could happen to me .
Oh , it be very beautiful , ' he say .
` It have my gracious approval . '
And then he nod pleasantly , and examine the empty loom , for he would not say that he could see nothing .
His whole Court round him look and look , and saw no more than the others ; but they say like the Emperor , ` Oh !
it be beautiful ! '
And they advise him to wear these new and magnificent clothes for the first time at the great procession which be soon to take place .
` Splendid !
Lovely !
Most beautiful ! '
go from mouth to mouth ; everyone seem delighted over them , and the Emperor give to the impostor the title of Court weaver to the Emperor .
Throughout the whole of the night before the morning on which the procession be to take place , the impostor be up and be work by the light of over sixteen candle .
The people could see that they be very busy make the Emperor 's new clothes ready .
They pretend they be take the cloth from the loom , cut with huge scissors in the air , sew with needle without thread , and then say at last , ` Now the clothes be finish ! '
The Emperor come himself with his most distinguished knight , and each impostor hold up his arm just a if he be hold something , and say , ` See !
here be the breech !
Here be the coat !
Here the cloak ! '
and so on .
` Spun clothes be so comfortable that one would imagine one have nothing on at all ; but that be the beauty of it ! '
` Yes , ' say all the knight , but they could see nothing , for there be nothing there .
` Will it please your Majesty graciously to take off your clothes , ' say the impostor , ` then we will put on the new clothes , here before the mirror . '
The Emperor take off all his clothes , and the impostor place themselves before him a if they be put on each part of his new clothes which be ready , and the Emperor turn and bent himself in front of the mirror .
` How beautifully they fit !
How well they sit ! '
say everybody .
` What material !
What colour !
It be a gorgeous suit ! '
` They be wait outside with the canopy which your Majesty be wont to have bear over you in the procession , ' announce the Master of the Ceremonies .
` Look , I be ready , ' say the Emperor .
` Does n't it sit well ! '
And he turn himself again to the mirror to see if his finery be on all right .
The chamberlain who be use to carry the train put their hand near the floor a if they be lift up the train ; then they do a if they be hold something in the air .
They would not have it notice that they could see nothing .
So the Emperor go along in the procession under the splendid canopy , and all the people in the street and at the window say , ` How matchless be the Emperor 's new clothes !
That train fasten to his dress , how beautifully it hang ! '
No one wish it to be notice that he could see nothing , for then he would have be unfit for his office , or else very stupid .
None of the Emperor 's clothes have meet with such approval a these have .
` But he have nothing on ! '
say a little child at last .
` Just listen to the innocent child ! '
say the father , and each one whisper to his neighbour what the child have say .
` But he have nothing on ! '
the whole of the people call out at last .
This strike the Emperor , for it seem to him a if they be right ; but he think to himself , ' I must go on with the procession now .
And the chamberlain walk along still more uprightly , hold up the train which be not there at all .
THE GOLDEN CRAB -LRB- 5 -RRB- -LRB- 5 -RRB- ` Prinz Krebs , ' from Griechische Mahrchen .
Schmidt .
Once upon a time there be a fisherman who have a wife and three child .
Every morning he use to go out fishing , and whatever fish he catch he sell to the King .
One day , among the other fish , he catch a golden crab .
When he come home he put all the fish together into a great dish , but he keep the Crab separate because it shine so beautifully , and place it upon a high shelf in the cupboard .
Now while the old woman , his wife , be clean the fish , and have tuck up her gown so that her foot be visible , she suddenly hear a voice , which say : ` Let down , let down thy petticoat That let thy foot be see . '
She turn round in surprise , and then she saw the little creature , the Golden Crab .
` What !
You can speak , can you , you ridiculous crab ? '
she say , for she be not quite pleased at the Crab 's remark .
Then she take him up and place him on a dish .
When her husband come home and they sit down to dinner , they presently hear the Crab 's little voice say , ` Give me some too . '
They be all very much surprise , but they give him something to eat .
When the old man come to take away the plate which have contain the Crab 's dinner , he find it full of gold , and a the same thing happen every day he soon become very fond of the Crab .
One day the Crab say to the fisherman 's wife , ` Go to the King and tell him I wish to marry his young daughter . '
The old woman go accordingly , and lay the matter before the King , who laugh a little at the notion of his daughter marry a crab , but do not decline the proposal altogether , because he be a prudent monarch , and know that the Crab be likely to be a prince in disguise .
He say , therefore , to the fisherman 's wife , ` Go , old woman , and tell the Crab I will give him my daughter if by to-morrow morning he can build a wall in front of my castle much high than my tower , upon which all the flower of the world must grow and bloom . '
The fisherman 's wife go home and give this message .
Then the Crab give her a golden rod , and say , ` Go and strike with this rod three time upon the ground on the place which the King show you , and to-morrow morning the wall will be there . '
The old woman do so and go away again .
The next morning , when the King awoke , what do you think he saw ?
The wall stand there before his eye , exactly a he have bespeak it !
Then the old woman go back to the King and say to him , ` Your Majesty 's order have be fulfil . '
` That be all very well , ' say the King , ` but I can not give away my daughter until there stand in front of my palace a garden in which there be three fountain , of which the first must play gold , the second diamond , and the third brilliants . '
So the old woman have to strike again three time upon the ground with the rod , and the next morning the garden be there .
The King now give his consent , and the wedding be fix for the very next day .
Then the Crab say to the old fisherman , ` Now take this rod ; go and knock with it on a certain mountain ; then a black man -LRB- 6 -RRB- will come out and ask you what you wish for .
Answer him thus : '' Your master , the King , have send me to tell you that you must send him his golden garment that be like the sun . ''
Make him give you , besides , the queenly robe of gold and precious stone which be like the flowery meadows , and bring them both to me .
And bring me also the golden cushion . '
-LRB- 6 -RRB- Ein Mohr .
The old man go and do his errand .
When he have bring the precious robe , the Crab put on the golden garment and then creep upon the golden cushion , and in this way the fisherman carry him to the castle , where the Crab present the other garment to his bride .
Now the ceremony take place , and when the marry pair be alone together the Crab make himself know to his young wife , and tell her how he be the son of the great king in the world , and how he be enchant , so that he become a crab by day and be a man only at night ; and he could also change himself into an eagle as often a he wish .
No sooner have he say this than he shake himself , and immediately become a handsome youth , but the next morning he be force to creep back again into his crab-shell .
And the same thing happen every day .
But the Princess 's affection for the Crab , and the polite attention with which she behave to him , surprise the royal family very much .
They suspect some secret , but though they spy and spy , they could not discover it .
Thus a year pass away , and the Princess have a son , whom she call Benjamin .
But her mother still think the whole matter very strange .
At last she say to the King that he ought to ask his daughter whether she would not like to have another husband instead of the Crab ?
But when the daughter be question she only answer : ' I be marry to the Crab , and him only will I have . '
Then the King say to her , ' I will appoint a tournament in your honour , and I will invite all the prince in the world to it , and if any one of them please you , you shall marry him . '
In the even the Princess tell this to the Crab , who say to her , ` Take this rod , go to the garden gate and knock with it , then a black man will come out and say to you , '' Why have you call me , and what do you require of me ? ''
Answer him thus : ` Your master the King have send me hither to tell you to send him his golden armour and his steed and the silver apple . ''
And bring them to me . '
The Princess do so , and bring him what he desire .
The follow even the Prince dress himself for the tournament .
Before he go he say to his wife , ` Now mind you do not say when you see me that I be the Crab .
For if you do this evil will come of it .
Place yourself at the window with your sister ; I will ride by and throw you the silver apple .
Take it in your hand , but if they ask you who I be , say that you do not know . '
So say , he kiss her , repeat his warn once more , and go away .
The Princess go with her sister to the window and look on at the tournament .
Presently her husband rode by and throw the apple up to her .
She catch it in her hand and go with it to her room , and by-and-by her husband come back to her .
But her father be much surprise that she do not seem to care about any of the Princes ; he therefore appoint a second tournament .
The Crab then give his wife the same direction a before , only this time the apple which she receive from the black man be of gold .
But before the Prince go to the tournament he say to his wife , ` Now I know you will betray me to-day . '
But she swear to him that she would not tell who he be .
He then repeat his warning and go away .
In the evening , while the Princess , with her mother and sister , be stand at the window , the Prince suddenly gallop past on his steed and throw her the golden apple .
Then her mother fly into a passion , give her a box on the ear , and cry out , ` Does not even that prince please you , you fool ? '
The Princess in her fright exclaim , ` That be the Crab himself ! '
Her mother be still more angry because she have not be told sooner , run into her daughter 's room where the crab-shell be still lie , take it up and throw it into the fire .
Then the poor Princess cry bitterly , but it be of no use ; her husband do not come back .
Now we must leave the Princess and turn to the other person in the story .
One day an old man go to a stream to dip in a crust of bread which he be go to eat , when a dog come out of the water , snatch the bread from his hand , and run away .
The old man run after him , but the dog reach a door , push it open , and ran in , the old man follow him .
He do not overtake the dog , but find himself above a staircase , which he descend .
Then he saw before him a stately palace , and , enter , he find in a large hall a table set for twelve person .
He hide himself in the hall behind a great picture , that he might see what would happen .
At noon he hear a great noise , so that he tremble with fear .
When he take courage to look out from behind the picture , he saw twelve eagle fly in .
At this sight his fear become still great .
The eagle fly to the basin of a fountain that be there and bath themselves , when suddenly they be change into twelve handsome youth .
Now they seat themselves at the table , and one of them take up a goblet fill with wine , and say , ' A health to my father ! '
And another say , ' A health to my mother ! '
and so the health go round .
Then one of them say : ' A health to my dear lady , Long may she live and well !
But a curse on the cruel mother That burnt my golden shell ! '
And so say he weep bitterly .
Then the youth rise from the table , go back to the great stone fountain , turn themselves into eagle again , and fly away .
Then the old man go away too , return to the light of day , and go home .
Soon after he hear that the Princess be ill , and that the only thing that do her good be have story tell to her .
He therefore go to the royal castle , obtain an audience of the Princess , and tell her about the strange thing he have see in the underground palace .
No sooner have he finish than the Princess ask him whether he could find the way to that palace .
` Yes , ' he answer , ` certainly . '
And now she desire him to guide her thither at once .
The old man do so , and when they come to the palace he hide her behind the great picture and advise her to keep quite still , and he place himself behind the picture also .
Presently the eagle come fly in , and change themselves into young men , and in a moment the Princess recognise her husband amongst them all , and try to come out of her hiding-place ; but the old man hold her back .
The youth seat themselves at the table ; and now the Prince say again , while he take up the cup of wine : ' A health to my dear lady , Long may she live and well !
But a curse on the cruel mother That burnt my golden shell ! '
Then the Princess could restrain herself no longer , but run forward and throw her arm round her husband .
And immediately he know her again , and say : ` Do you remember how I tell you that day that you would betray me ?
Now you see that I speak the truth .
But all that bad time be past .
Now listen to me : I must still remain enchanted for three month .
Will you stay here with me till that time be over ? '
So the Princess stay with him , and say to the old man , ` Go back to the castle and tell my parent that I be stay here . '
Her parent be very much vexed when the old man come back and tell them this , but as soon a the three month of the Prince 's enchantment be over , he cease to be an eagle and become once more a man , and they return home together .
And then they live happily , and we who hear the story be happy still .
THE IRON STOVE -LRB- 7 -RRB- -LRB- 7 -RRB- Grimm .
Once upon a time when wish come true there be a king 's son who be enchant by an old witch , so that he be oblige to sit in a large iron stove in a wood .
There he live for many year , and no one could free him .
At last a king 's daughter come into the wood ; she have lose her way , and could not find her father 's kingdom again .
She have be wander round and round for nine day , and she come at last to the iron case .
A voice come from within and ask her , ` Where do you come from , and where do you want to go ? '
She answer , ' I have lose my way to my father 's kingdom , and I shall never get home again . '
Then the voice from the iron stove say , ' I will help you to find your home again , and that in a very short time , if you will promise to do what I ask you .
I be a great prince than you be a princess , and I will marry you . '
Then she grow frightened , and think , ` What can a young lassie do with an iron stove ? '
But a she want very much to go home to her father , she promise to do what he wish .
He say , ` You must come again , and bring a knife with you to scrape a hole in the iron . '
Then he give her someone for a guide , who walk near her and say nothing , but he bring her in two hour to her house .
There be great joy in the castle when the Princess come back , and the old King fell on her neck and kiss her .
But she be very much trouble , and say , ` Dear father , listen to what have befall me !
I should never have come home again out of the great wild wood if I have not come to an iron stove , to whom I have have to promise that I will go back to free him and marry him ! '
The old King be so frightened that he nearly faint , for she be his only daughter .
So they consult together , and determine that the miller 's daughter , who be very beautiful , should take her place .
They take her there , give her a knife , and say she must scrape at the iron stove .
She scrap for twenty-four hour , but do not make the least impression .
When the day break , a voice call from the iron stove , ` It seem to me that it be day outside . '
Then she answer , ` It seem so to me ; I think I hear my father 's mill rattle . '
` So you be a miller 's daughter !
Then go away at once , and tell the King 's daughter to come . '
Then she go away , and tell the old King that the thing inside the iron stove would not have her , but want the Princess .
The old King be frighten , and his daughter wept .
But they have a swineherd 's daughter who be even more beautiful than the miller 's daughter , and they give her a piece of gold to go to the iron stove instead of the Princess .
Then she be take out , and have to scrape for four-and-twenty hour , but she could make no impression .
As soon a the day break the voice from the stove call out , ` It seem to be daylight outside . '
Then she answer , ` It seem so to me too ; I think I hear my father blow his horn . '
` So you be a swineherd 's daughter !
Go away at once , and let the King 's daughter come .
And say to her that what I foretell shall come to pass , and if she do not come everything in the kingdom shall fall into ruin , and not one stone shall be leave upon another . '
When the Princess heard this she begin to cry , but it be no good ; she have to keep her word .
She take leave of her father , put a knife in her belt , and go to the iron stove in the wood .
As soon a she reach it she begin to scrape , and the iron give way and before two hour have pass she have make a little hole .
Then she peep in and saw such a beautiful youth all shin with gold and precious stone that she fell in love with him on the spot .
So she scrap away hard than ever , and make the hole so large that he could get out .
Then he say , ` You be mine , and I be thine ; you be my bride and have set me free ! '
He want to take her with him to his kingdom , but she beg him just to let her go once more to her father ; and the Prince let her go , but tell her not to say more than three word to her father , then to come back again .
So she go home , but ala !
she say MORE THAN THREE WORDS ; and immediately the iron stove vanish and go away over a mountain of glass and sharp sword .
But the Prince be free , and be no long shut up in it .
Then she say good-bye to her father , and take a little money with her , and go again into the great wood to look for the iron stove ; but she could not find it .
She seek it for nine day , and then her hunger become so great that she do not know how she could live any long .
And when it be even she climb a little tree and wish that the night would not come , because she be afraid of the wild beast .
When midnight come she saw afar off a little light , and think , ` Ah !
if only I could reach that ! '
Then she get down from the tree and go towards the light .
She come to a little old house with a great deal of grass grow round , and stand in front of a little heap of wood .
She think , ` Alas !
what be I come to ? '
and peep through the window ; but she saw nothing inside except big and little toad , and a table beautifully spread with roast meat and wine , and all the dish and drinking-cups be of silver .
Then she take heart and knock .
Then a fat toad call out : ` Little green toad with leg like crook , Open wide the door , and look Who it be the latch that shook . '
And a little toad come forward and let her in .
When she enter they all bid her welcome , and make her sit down .
They ask her how she come there and what she want .
Then she tell everything that have happen to her , and how , because she have exceed her permission only to speak three word , the stove have disappear with the Prince ; and how she have search a very long time , and must wander over mountain and valley till she find him .
Then the old toad say : ` Little green toad whose leg doth twist , Go to the corner of which you wist , And bring to me the large old kist . '
And the little toad go and bring out a great chest .
Then they give her food and drink , and lead her to a beautifully make bed of silk and samite , on which she lay down and slept soundly .
When the day dawn she arise , and the old toad give her three thing out of the huge chest to take with her .
She would have need of them , for she have to cross a high glass mountain , three cut sword , and a great lake .
When she have pass these she would find her lover again .
So she be give three large needle , a plough-wheel , and three nut , which she be to take great care of .
She set out with these thing , and when she come to the glass mountain which be so slippery she stick the three needle behind her foot and then in front , and so get over it , and when she be on the other side put them carefully away .
Then she reach the three cutting sword , and get on her plough-wheel and roll over them .
At last she come to a great lake , and , when she have cross that , arrive at a beautiful castle .
She go in and give herself out a a servant , a poor maid who would gladly be engage .
But she know that the Prince whom she have free from the iron stove in the great wood be in the castle .
So she be take on a a kitchen-maid for very small wage .
Now the Prince be about to marry another princess , for he think she be dead long ago .
In the evening , when she have wash up and be ready , she felt in her pocket and find the three nut which the old toad have give her .
She crack one and be go to eat the kernel , when behold !
there be a beautiful royal dress inside it !
When the bride heard of this , she come and beg for the dress , and want to buy it , say that it be not a dress for a serving-maid .
Then she say she would not sell it unless she be grant one favour -- namely , to sleep by the Prince 's door .
The bride grant her this , because the dress be so beautiful and she have so few like it .
When it be even she say to her bridegroom , ` That stupid maid want to sleep by your door . '
` If you be content , I be , ' he say .
But she give him a glass of wine in which she have pour a sleeping-draught .
Then they both go to his room , but he sleep so soundly that she could not wake him .
The maid wept all night long , and say , ' I free you in the wild wood out of the iron stove ; I have seek you , and have cross a glassy mountain , three sharp sword , and a great lake before I find you , and will you not hear me now ? '
The servant outside heard how she cry the whole night , and they tell their master in the morning .
When she have wash up the next evening she bite the second nut , and there be a still more beautiful dress inside .
When the bride saw it she want to buy it also .
But the maid do not want money , and ask that she should sleep again by the Prince 's door .
The bride , however , give him a sleeping-draught , and he sleep so soundly that he hear nothing .
But the kitchen-maid wept the whole night long , and say , ' I have free you in a wood and from an iron stove ; I seek you and have cross a glassy mountain , three sharp sword , and a great lake to find you , and now you will not hear me ! '
The servant outside heard how she cry the whole night , and in the morning they tell their master .
And when she have wash up on the third night she bite the third nut , and there be a still more beautiful dress inside that be make of pure gold .
When the bride saw it she want to have it , but the maid would only give it her on condition that she should sleep for the third time by the Prince 's door .
But the Prince take care not to drink the sleeping-draught .
When she begin to weep and to say , ` Dearest sweetheart , I free you in the horrible wild wood , and from an iron stove , ' he jump up and say , ` You be right .
You be mine , and I be thine . '
Though it be still night , he get into a carriage with her , and they take the false bride 's clothes away , so that she could not follow them .
When they come to the great lake they row across , and when they reach the three sharp sword they sit on the plough-wheel , and on the glassy mountain they stick the three needle in .
So they arrive at last at the little old house , but when they step inside it turn into a large castle .
The toad be all free , and be beautiful King 's child , run about for joy .
There they be marry , and they remain in the castle , which be much large than that of the Princess 's father 's .
But because the old man do not like be leave alone , they go and fetch him .
So they have two kingdom and live in great wealth .
A mouse have run , My story 's do .
THE DRAGON AND HIS GRANDMOTHER There be once a great war , and the King have a great many soldier , but he give them so little pay that they could not live upon it .
Then three of them take counsel together and determine to desert .
One of them say to the others , ` If we be catch , we shall be hang on the gallows ; how shall we set about it ? '
The other say , ` Do you see that large cornfield there ?
If we be to hide ourselves in that , no one could find u .
The army can not come into it , and to-morrow it be to march on . '
They creep into the corn , but the army do not march on , but remain encamp close around them .
They sit for two day and two night in the corn , and grow so hungry that they nearly die ; but if they be to venture out , it be certain death .
They say at last , ` What use be it our desert ?
We must perish here miserably . '
Whilst they be speak a fiery dragon come fly through the air .
It hover near them , and ask why they be hide there .
They answer , ` We be three soldier , and have desert because our pay be so small .
Now if we remain here we shall die of hunger , and if we move out we shall be string up on the gallows . '
` If you will serve me for seven year , ' say the dragon , I will lead you through the midst of the army so that no one shall catch you . '
` We have no choice , and must take your offer , ' say they .
Then the dragon seize them in his claw , take them through the air over the army , and set them down on the earth a long way from it .
He give them a little whip , say , ` Whip and slash with this , and as much money a you want will jump up before you .
You can then live a great lord , keep horse , and drive about in carriage .
But after seven year you be mine . '
Then he put a book before them , which he make all three of them sign . '
I will then give you a riddle , ' he say ; ` if you guess it , you shall be free and out of my power . '
The dragon then fly away , and they journey on with their little whip .
They have a much money a they want , wear grand clothes , and make their way into the world .
Wherever they go they live in merrymaking and splendour , drive about with horse and carriage , ate and drank , but do nothing wrong .
The time pass quickly away , and when the seven year be nearly end two of them grow terribly anxious and frightened , but the third make light of it , say , ` Do n't be afraid , brother , I be n't bear yesterday ; I will guess the riddle . '
They go into a field , sit down , and the two pull long face .
An old woman pass by , and ask them why they be so sad .
` Alas !
what have you to do with it ?
You can not help u . '
` Who know ? '
she answer .
` Only confide your trouble in me . '
Then they tell her that they have become the servant of the Dragon for seven long year , and how he have give them money as plentifully a blackberry ; but a they have sign their name they be his , unless when the seven year have pass they could guess a riddle .
The old woman say , ` If you would help yourselves , one of you must go into the wood , and there he will come upon a tumble-down building of rock which look like a little house .
He must go in , and there he will find help . '
The two melancholy one think , ` That wo n't save u ! '
and they remain where they be .
But the third and merry one jump up and go into the wood till he find the rock hut .
In the hut sit a very old woman , who be the Dragon 's grandmother .
She ask him how he come , and what be his business there .
He tell her all that happen , and because she be pleased with him she take compassion on him , and say she would help him .
She lift up a large stone which lay over the cellar , say , ` Hide yourself there ; you can hear all that be speak in this room .
Only sit still and do n't stir .
When the Dragon come , I will ask him what the riddle be , for he tell me everything ; then listen carefully what he answer . '
At midnight the Dragon flew in , and ask for his supper .
His grandmother lay the table , and bring out food and drink till he be satisfy , and they eat and drink together .
Then in the course of the conversation she ask him what he have do in the day , and how many soul he have conquer . '
I have n't have much luck to-day , ' he say , ` but I have a tight hold on three soldier . '
` Indeed !
three soldier ! '
say she .
` Who can not escape you ? '
` They be mine , ' answer the Dragon scornfully , ` for I shall only give them one riddle which they will never be able to guess . '
` What sort of a riddle be it ? '
she ask . '
I will tell you this .
In the North Sea lie a dead sea-cat -- that shall be their roast meat ; and the rib of a whale -- that shall be their silver spoon ; and the hollow foot of a dead horse -- that shall be their wineglass . '
When the Dragon have go to bed , his old grandmother pull up the stone and let out the soldier .
` Did you pay attention to everything ? '
` Yes , ' he reply , ' I know enough , and can help myself splendidly . '
Then he go by another way through the window secretly , and in all haste back to his comrade .
He tell them how the Dragon have be outwit by his grandmother , and how he have hear from his own lips the answer to the riddle .
Then they be all delighted and in high spirit , take out their whip , and crack so much money that it come jump up from the ground .
When the seven year have quite go , the Fiend come with his book , and , point at the signature , say , ' I will take you underground with me ; you shall have a meal there .
If you can tell me what you will get for your roast meat , you shall be free , and shall also keep the whip . '
Then say the first soldier , ` In the North Sea lie a dead sea-cat ; that shall be the roast meat . '
The Dragon be much annoyed , and hum and haw a good deal , and ask the second , ` But what shall be your spoon ? '
` The rib of a whale shall be our silver spoon . '
The Dragon-made a face , and growl again three time , ` Hum , hum , hum , ' and say to the third , ` Do you know what your wineglass shall be ? '
` An old horse 's hoof shall be our wineglass . '
Then the Dragon fly away with a loud shriek , and have no more power over them .
But the three soldier take the little whip , whip a much money a they want , and live happily to their life end .
THE DONKEY CABBAGE There be once a young Hunter who go boldly into the forest .
He have a merry and light heart , and a he go whistle along there come an ugly old woman , who say to him , ` Good-day , dear hunter !
You be very merry and contented , but I suffer hunger and thirst , so give me a trifle . '
The Hunter be sorry for the poor old woman , and he felt in his pocket and give her all he could spare .
He be go on then , but the old woman stop him and say , ` Listen , dear hunter , to what I say .
Because of your kind heart I will make you a present .
Go on your way , and in a short time you will come to a tree on which sit nine bird who have a cloak in their claw and be quarrel over it .
Then take aim with your gun and shoot in the middle of them ; they will let the cloak fall , but one of the bird will be hit and will drop down dead .
Take the cloak with you ; it be a wishing-cloak , and when you throw it on your shoulder you have only to wish yourself at a certain place , and in the twinkling of an eye you be there .
Take the heart out of the dead bird and swallow it whole , and early every morning when you get up you will find a gold piece under your pillow . '
The Hunter thank the wise woman , and think to himself ` These be splendid thing she have promise me , if only they come to pass ! '
So he walk on about a hundred yard , and then he hear above him in the branch such a screaming and chirping that he look up , and there he saw a heap of bird tear a cloth with their beak and foot , shriek , tug , and fight , a if each want it for himself .
` Well , ' say the Hunter , ` this be wonderful !
It be just a the old woman say ' ; and he take his gun on his shoulder , pull the trigger , and shot into the midst of them , so that their feather fly about .
Then the flock take flight with much screaming , but one fell dead , and the cloak flutter down .
Then the Hunter do a the old woman have tell him : he cut open the bird , find it heart , swallow it , and take the cloak home with him .
The next morning when he awake he remember the promise , and want to see if it have come true .
But when he lift up his pillow , there sparkle the gold piece , and the next morning he find another , and so on every time he get up .
He collect a heap of gold , but at last he think to himself , ` What good be all my gold to me if I stay at home ?
I will travel and look a bit about me in the world . '
So he take leave of his parent , sling his hunt knapsack and his gun round him , and journey into the world .
It happen that one day he go through a thick wood , and when he come to the end of it there lay in the plain before him a large castle .
At one of the window in it stand an old woman with a most beautiful maiden by her side , look out .
But the old woman be a witch , and she say to the girl , ` There come one out of the wood who have a wonderful treasure in his body which we must manage to possess ourselves of , darling daughter ; we have more right to it than he .
He have a bird 's heart in him , and so every morning there lie a gold piece under his pillow . '
She tell her how they could get hold of it , and how she be to coax it from him , and at last threaten her angrily , say , ` And if you do not obey me , you shall repent it ! '
When the Hunter come nearer he saw the maiden , and say to himself , ' I have travel so far now that I will rest , and turn into this beautiful castle ; money I have in plenty . '
But the real reason be that he have catch sight of the lovely face .
He go into the house , and be kindly receive and hospitably entertain .
It be not long before he be so much in love with the witch-maiden that he think of nothing else , and only look in her eye , and whatever she want , that he gladly do .
Then the old witch say , ` Now we must have the bird-heart ; he will not feel when it be go . '
She prepare a drink , and when it be ready she pour it in a goblet and give it to the maiden , who have to hand it to the hunter .
` Drink to me now , my dear , ' she say .
Then he take the goblet , and when he have swallow the drink the bird-heart come out of his mouth .
The maiden have to get hold of it secretly and then swallow it herself , for the old witch want to have it .
Thenceforward he find no more gold under his pillow , and it lay under the maiden 's ; but he be so much in love and so much bewitch that he think of nothing except spend all his time with the maiden .
Then the old witch say , ` We have the bird-heart , but we must also get the wishing-cloak from him . '
The maiden answer , ` We will leave him that ; he have already lose his wealth ! '
The old witch grow angry , and say , ` Such a cloak be a wonderful thing , it be seldom to be have in the world , and have it I must and will . '
She beat the maiden , and say that if she do not obey it would go ill with her .
So she do her mother 's bidding , and , stand one day by the window , she look away into the far distance a if she be very sad .
` Why be you stand there look so sad ? '
ask the Hunter .
` Alas , my love , ' she reply , ` over there lie the granite mountain where the costly precious stone grow .
I have a great longing to go there , so that when I think of it I be very sad .
For who can fetch them ?
Only the bird who fly ; a man , never . '
` If you have no other trouble , ' say the Hunter , ` that one I can easily remove from your heart . '
So he wrap her round in his cloak and wish themselves to the granite mountain , and in an instant there they be , sit on it !
The precious stone sparkle so brightly on all side that it be a pleasure to see them , and they collect the most beautiful and costly together .
But now the old witch have through her cause the Hunter 's eye to become heavy .
He say to the maiden , ` We will sit down for a little while and rest ; I be so tired that I can hardly stand on my foot . '
So they sit down , and he lay his head on her lap and fell asleep .
As soon a he be sound asleep she unfasten the cloak from his shoulder , throw it on her own , leave the granite and stone , and wish herself home again .
But when the Hunter have finish his sleep and awoke , he find that his love have betray him and leave him alone on the wild mountain .
` Oh , ' say he , ` why be faithlessness so great in the world ? '
and he sit down in sorrow and trouble , not know what to do .
But the mountain belong to fierce and huge giant , who live on it and trade there , and he have not sit long before he saw three of them stride towards him .
So he lay down as if he have fall into a deep sleep .
The giant come up , and the first push him with his foot , and say , ` What sort of an earthworm be that ? '
The second say , ` Crush him dead . '
But the third say contemptuously , ` It be not worth the trouble !
Let him live ; he can not remain here , and if he go high up the mountain the cloud will take him and carry him off . '
Talking thus they go away .
But the Hunter have listen to their talk , and as soon a they have go he rise and climb to the summit .
When he have sit there a little while a cloud sweep by , and , seize him , carry him away .
It travel for a time in the sky , and then it sink down and hover over a large vegetable garden surround by wall , so that he come safely to the ground amidst cabbage and vegetable .
The Hunter then look about him , say , ` If only I have something to eat !
I be so hungry , and it will go badly with me in the future , for I see here not an apple or pear or fruit of any kind -- nothing but vegetable everywhere . '
At last he think , ` At a pinch I can eat a salad ; it do not taste particularly nice , but it will refresh me . '
So he look about for a good head and ate it , but no sooner have he swallow a couple of mouthful than he felt very strange , and find himself wonderfully change .
Four leg begin to grow on him , a thick head , and two long ear , and he saw with horror that he have change into a donkey .
But a he be still very hungry and this juicy salad taste very good to his present nature , he go on eat with a still great appetite .
At last he get hold of another kind of cabbage , but scarcely have swallow it when he felt another change , and he once more regain his human form .
The Hunter now lay down and sleep off his weariness .
When he awake the next morning he break off a head of the bad and a head of the good cabbage , thinking , ` This will help me to regain my own , and to punish faithlessness . '
Then he put the head in his pocket , climb the wall , and start off to seek the castle of his love .
When he have wander about for a couple of day he find it quite easily .
He then brown his face quickly , so that his own mother would not have know him , and go into the castle , where he beg for a lodging . '
I be so tired , ' he say , ' I can go no farther . '
The witch ask , ` Countryman , who be you , and what be your business ? '
He answer , ' I be a messenger of the King , and have be send to seek the fine salad that grow under the sun .
I have be so lucky a to find it , and be bring it with me ; but the heat of the sun be so great that the tender cabbage threaten to grow soft , and I do not know if I shall be able to bring it any far . '
When the old witch heard of the fine salad she want to eat it , and say , ` Dear countryman , just let me taste the wonderful salad . '
` Why not ? '
he answer ; ' I have bring two head with me , and will give you one . '
So say , he open his sack and give her the bad one .
The witch suspect no evil , and her mouth water to taste the new dish , so that she go into the kitchen to prepare it herself .
When it be ready she could not wait till it be serve at the table , but she immediately take a couple of leaf and put them in her mouth .
No sooner , however , have she swallow them than she lose human form , and run into the courtyard in the shape of a donkey .
Now the servant come into the kitchen , and when she saw the salad standing there ready cook she be about to carry it up , but on the way , accord to her old habit , she taste it and eat a couple of leaf .
Immediately the charm work , and she become a donkey , and run out to join the old witch , and the dish with the salad in it fell to the ground .
In the meantime , the messenger be sit with the lovely maiden , and a no one come with the salad , and she want very much to taste it , she say , ' I do n't know where the salad be . '
Then think the Hunter , ` The cabbage must have already begin to work . '
And he say , ' I will go to the kitchen and fetch it myself . '
When he come there he saw the two donkey run about in the courtyard , but the salad be lie on the ground .
` That 's all right , ' say he ; ` two have have their share ! '
And lift the remain leave up , he lay them on the dish and bring them to the maiden . '
I be bring you the delicious food my own self , ' he say , ` so that you need not wait any long . '
Then she eat , and , a the others have do , she at once lose her human form , and run a a donkey into the yard .
When the Hunter have wash his face , so that the change one might know him , he go into the yard , say , ` Now you shall receive a reward for your faithlessness . '
He tie them all three with a rope , and drive them away till he come to a mill .
He knock at the window , and the miller put his head out and ask what he want . '
I have three tiresome animal , ' he answer , ` which I do n't want to keep any long .
If you will take them , give them food and stabling , and do a I tell you with them , I will pay you as much a you want . '
The miller reply , ` Why not ?
What shall I do with them ? '
Then the Hunter say that to the old donkey , which be the witch , three beating and one meal ; to the young one , which be the servant , one beating and three meal ; and to the young one , which be the maiden , no beating and three meal ; for he could not find it in his heart to let the maiden be beat .
Then he go back into the castle , and he find there all that he want .
After a couple of day the miller come and say that he must tell him that the old donkey which be to have three beating and only one meal have die .
` The two others , ' he add , ` be certainly not dead , and get their three meal every day , but they be so sad that they can not last much longer . '
Then the Hunter take pity on them , lay aside his anger , and tell the miller to drive them back again .
And when they come he give them some of the good cabbage to eat , so that they become human again .
Then the beautiful maiden fell on her knee before him , say , ` Oh , my dear , forgive me the ill I have do you !
My mother compel me to do it ; it be against my will , for I love you dearly .
Your wishing-cloak be hang in a cupboard , and a for the bird-heart I will make a drink and give it back to you . '
But he change his mind , and say , ` Keep it ; it make no difference , for I will take you to be my own dear true wife . '
And the wedding be celebrate , and they live happy together till death .
THE LITTLE GREEN FROG -LRB- 8 -RRB- -LRB- 8 -RRB- Cabinet de Fees .
In a part of the world whose name I forget lived once upon a time two king , call Peridor and Diamantino .
They be cousin as well a neighbour , and both be under the protection of the fairy ; though it be only fair to say that the fairy do not love them half so well a their wife do .
Now it often happen that a prince can generally manage to get their own way it be hard for them to be good than it be for common people .
So it be with Peridor and Diamantino ; but of the two , the fairy declare that Diamantino be much the bad ; indeed , he behave so badly to his wife Aglantino , that the fairy would not allow him to live any long ; and he die , leave behind him a little daughter .
As she be an only child , of course this little girl be the heiress of the kingdom , but , be still only a baby , her mother , the widow of Diamantino , be proclaim regent .
The Queen-dowager be wise and good , and try her best to make her people happy .
The only thing she have to vex her be the absence of her daughter ; for the fairy , for reason of their own , determine to bring up the little Princess Serpentine among themselves .
As to the other King , he be really fond of his wife , Queen Constance , but he often grieve her by his thoughtless way , and in order to punish him for his carelessness , the fairy cause her to die quite suddenly .
When she be go the King felt how much he have love her , and his grief be so great -LRB- though he never neglect his duty -RRB- that his subject call him Peridor the Sorrowful .
It seem hardly possible that any man should live like Peridor for fifteen year plunge in such depth of grief , and most likely he would have die too if it have not be for the fairy .
The one comfort the poor King have be his son , Prince Saphir , who be only three year old at the time of his mother 's death , and great care be give to his education .
By the time he be fifteen Saphir have learn everything that a prince should know , and he be , besides , charm and agreeable .
It be about this time that the fairy suddenly take fright l his love for his father should interfere with the plan they have make for the young prince .
So , to prevent this , they place in a pretty little room of which Saphir be very fond a little mirror in a black frame , such a be often bring from Venice .
The Prince do not notice for some day that there be anything new in the room , but at last he perceive it , and go up to look at it more closely .
What be his surprise to see reflect in the mirror , not his own face , but that of a young girl as lovely a the morning !
And , good still , every movement of the girl , just grow out of childhood , be also reflect in the wonderful glass .
As might have be expect , the young Prince lose his heart completely to the beautiful image , and it be impossible to get him out of the room , so busy be he in watch the lovely unknown .
Certainly it be very delightful to be able to see her whom he love at any moment he choose , but his spirit sometimes sink when he wonder what be to be the end of this adventure .
The magic mirror have be for about a year in the Prince 's possession , when one day a new subject of disquiet seize upon him .
As usual , he be engage in look at the girl , when suddenly he think he saw a second mirror reflect in the first , exactly like his own , and with the same power .
And in this he be perfectly right .
The young girl have only possess it for a short time , and neglect all her duty for the sake of the mirror .
Now it be not difficult for Saphir to guess the reason of the change in her , nor why the new mirror be consult so often ; but try a he would he could never see the face of the person who be reflect in it , for the young girl 's figure always come between .
All he know be that the face be that of a man , and this be quite enough to make him madly jealous .
This be the do of the fairy , and we must suppose that they have their reason for act a they do .
When these thing happen Saphir be about eighteen year old , and fifteen year have pass away since the death of his mother .
King Peridor have grow more and more unhappy a time go on , and at last he fell so ill that it seem a if his day be number .
He be so much beloved by his subject that this sad news be hear with despair by the nation , and more than all by the Prince .
During his whole illness the King never speak of anything but the Queen , his sorrow at have grieve her , and his hope of one day see her again .
All the doctor and all the water-cures in the kingdom have be try , and nothing would do him any good .
At last he persuade them to let him lie quietly in his room , where no one come to trouble him .
Perhaps the bad pain he have to bear be a sort of weight on his chest , which make it very hard for him to breathe .
So he command his servant to leave the window open in order that he might get more air .
One day , when he have be leave alone for a few minute , a bird with brilliant plumage come and flutter round the window , and finally rest on the sill .
His feather be sky-blue and gold , his foot and his beak of such glitter ruby that no one could bear to look at them , his eye make the bright diamond look dull , and on his head he wear a crown .
I can not tell you what the crown be make of , but I be quite certain that it be still more splendid than all the rest .
As to his voice I can say nothing about that , for the bird never sing at all .
In fact , he do nothing but gaze steadily at the King , and a he gaze , the King felt his strength come back to him .
In a little while the bird fly into the room , still with his eye fix on the King , and at every glance the strength of the sick man become great , till he be once more as well a he use to be before the Queen die .
Filled with joy at his cure , he try to seize the bird to whom he owe it all , but , swift than a swallow , it manage to avoid him .
In vain he describe the bird to his attendant , who rush at his first call ; in vain they seek the wonderful creature both on horse and foot , and summon the fowler to their aid : the bird could nowhere be find .
The love the people bore King Peridor be so strong , and the reward he promise be so large , that in the twinkling of an eye every man , woman , and child have flee into the field , and the town be quite empty .
All this bustle , however , end in nothing but confusion , and , what be bad , the King soon fell back into the same condition a he be in before .
Prince Saphir , who love his father very dearly , be so unhappy at this that he persuade himself that he might succeed where the others have fail , and at once prepared himself for a more distant search .
In spite of the opposition he meet with , he ride away , follow by his household , trust to chance to help him .
He have form no plan , and there be no reason that he should choose one path more than another .
His only idea be to make straight for those spot which be the favourite haunt of bird .
But in vain he examine all the hedge and all the thicket ; in vain he question everyone he meet along the road .
The more he seek the le he find .
At last he come to one of the large forest in all the world , compose entirely of cedar .
But in spite of the deep shadow cast by the wide-spreading branch of the tree , the grass underneath be soft and green , and cover with the rarest flower .
It seem to Saphir that this be exactly the place where the bird would choose to live , and he determine not to quit the wood until he have examine it from end to end .
And he do more .
He order some net to be prepared and paint of the same colour a the bird 's plumage , think that we be all easily catch by what be like ourselves .
In this he have to help him not only the fowler by profession , but also his attendant , who excel in this art .
For a man be not a courtier unless he can do everything .
After search as usual for nearly a whole day Prince Saphir begin to feel overcome with thirst .
He be too tired to go any far , when happily he discover a little way off a bubble fountain of the clear water .
Being an experienced traveller , he draw from his pocket a little cup -LRB- without which no one should ever take a journey -RRB- , and be just about to dip it in the water , when a lovely little green frog , much pretty than frog generally be , jump into the cup .
Far from admire it beauty , Saphir shake it impatiently off ; but it be no good , for quick a lightning the frog jump back again .
Saphir , who be rag with thirst , be just about to shake it off anew , when the little creature fix upon him the most beautiful eye in the world , and say , ' I be a friend of the bird you be seek , and when you have quench your thirst listen to me . '
So the Prince drink his fill , and then , by the command of the Little Green Frog , he lay down on the grass to rest himself .
` Now , ' she begin , ` be sure you do exactly in every respect what I tell you .
First you must call together your attendant , and order them to remain in a little hamlet close by until you want them .
Then go , quite alone , down a road that you will find on your right hand , look southward .
This road be plant all the way with cedar of Lebanon ; and after go down it a long way you will come at last to a magnificent castle .
And now , ' she go on , ` attend carefully to what I be go to say .
Take this tiny grain of sand , and put it into the ground as close a you can to the gate of the castle .
It have the virtue both of open the gate and also of send to sleep all the inhabitant .
Then go at once to the stable , and pay no heed to anything except what I tell you .
Choose the handsome of all the horse , leap quickly on it back , and come to me a fast a you can .
Farewell , Prince ; I wish you good luck , ' and with these word the Little Frog plunge into the water and disappear .
The Prince , who felt more hopeful than he have do since he leave home , do precisely a he have be order .
He leave his attendant in the hamlet , find the road the frog have describe to him , and follow it all alone , and at last he arrive at the gate of the castle , which be even more splendid than he have expect , for it be build of crystal , and all it ornament be of massive gold .
However , he have no thought to spare for it beauty , and quickly bury his grain of sand in the earth .
In one instant the gate fly open , and all the dweller inside fell sound asleep .
Saphir fly straight to the stable , and already have his hand on the fine horse it contain , when his eye be catch by a suit of magnificent harness hang up close by .
It occur to him directly that the harness belong to the horse , and without ever think of harm -LRB- for indeed he who steal a horse can hardly be blame for take his saddle -RRB- , he hastily place it on the animal 's back .
Suddenly the people in the castle become broad awake , and rush to the stable .
They fling themselves on the Prince , seize him , and drag him before their lord ; but , luckily for the Prince , who could only find very lame excuse for his conduct , the lord of the castle take a fancy to his face , and let him depart without further question .
Very sad , and very much ashamed of himself poor Saphir creep back to the fountain , where the Frog be await him with a good scolding .
` Whom do you take me for ? '
she exclaim angrily .
` Do you really believe that it be just for the pleasure of talk that I give you the advice you have neglect so abominably ? '
But the Prince be so deeply grieve , and apologise so very humbly , that after some time the heart of the good little Frog be soften , and she give him another tiny little grain , but instead of be sand it be now a grain of gold .
She direct him to do just a he have do before , with only this difference , that instead of go to the stable which have be the ruin of his hope , he be to enter right into the castle itself , and to glide as fast a he could down the passage till he come to a room fill with perfume , where he would find a beautiful maiden asleep on a bed .
He be to wake the maiden instantly and carry her off , and to be sure not to pay any heed to whatever resistance she might make .
The Prince obey the Frog 's order one by one , and all go well for this second time also .
The gate open , the inhabitant fell sound asleep , and he walk down the passage till he find the girl on her bed , exactly a he have be tell he would .
He wake her , and beg her firmly , but politely , to follow him quickly .
After a little persuasion the maiden consent , but only on condition that she be allow first to put on her dress .
This sound so reasonable and natural that it do not enter the Prince 's head to refuse her request .
But the maiden 's hand have hardly touch the dress when the palace suddenly awake from it sleep , and the Prince be seize and bind .
He be so vexed with his own folly , and so take aback at the disaster , that he do not attempt to explain his conduct , and thing would have go badly with him if his friends the fairy have not soften the heart of his captor , so that they once more allow him to leave quietly .
However , what trouble him most be the idea of have to meet the Frog who have be his benefactress .
How be he ever to appear before her with this tale ?
Still , after a long struggle with himself , he make up his mind that there be nothing else to be do , and that he deserve whatever she might say to him .
And she say a great deal , for she have work herself into a terrible passion ; but the Prince humbly implore her pardon , and venture to point out that it would have be very hard to refuse the young lady 's reasonable request .
` You must learn to do a you be tell , ' be all the Frog would reply .
But poor Saphir be so unhappy , and beg so hard for forgiveness , that at last the Frog 's anger give way , and she hold up to him a tiny diamond stone .
` Go back , ' she say , ` to the castle , and bury this little diamond close to the door .
But be careful not to return to the stable or to the bedroom ; they have prove too fatal to you .
Walk straight to the garden and enter through a portico , into a small green wood , in the midst of which be a tree with a trunk of gold and leaf of emerald .
Perched on this tree you will see the beautiful bird you have be seek so long .
You must cut the branch on which it be sit , and bring it back to me without delay .
But I warn you solemnly that if you disobey my direction , a you have do twice before , you have nothing more to expect either of me or anyone else . '
With these word she jump into the water , and the Prince , who have take her threat much to heart , take his departure , firmly resolve not to deserve them .
He find it all just a he have be tell : the portico , the wood , the magnificent tree , and the beautiful bird , which be sleep soundly on one of the branch .
He speedily lop off the branch , and though he notice a splendid golden cage hang close by , which would have be very useful for the bird to travel in , he leave it alone , and come back to the fountain , hold his breath and walk on tip-toe all the way , for fear lest he should awake his prize .
But what be his surprise , when instead of find the fountain in the spot where he have leave it , he saw in it place a little rustic palace build in the best taste , and stand in the doorway a charming maiden , at whose sight his mind seem to give way .
` What !
Madam ! '
he cry , hardly know what he say .
` What !
Is it you ? '
The maiden blush and answer : ` Ah , my lord , it be long since I first behold your face , but I do not think you have ever see mine . '
` Oh , madam , ' reply he , ` you can never guess the day and the hour I have pass lose in admiration of you . '
And after these word they each relate all the strange thing that have happen , and the more they talk the more they felt convince of the truth of the image they have see in their mirror .
After some time spend in the most tender conversation , the Prince could not restrain himself from ask the lovely unknown by what lucky chance she be wander in the forest ; where the fountain have go ; and if she know anything of the Frog to whom he owe all his happiness , and to whom he must give up the bird , which , somehow or other , be still sound asleep .
` Ah , my lord , ' she reply , with rather an awkward air , ` a to the Frog , she stand before you .
Let me tell you my story ; it be not a long one .
I know neither my country nor my parent , and the only thing I can say for certain be that I be call Serpentine .
The fairy , who have take care of me ever since I be bear , wish me to be in ignorance a to my family , but they have look after my education , and have bestow on me endless kindness .
I have always live in seclusion , and for the last two year I have wish for nothing better .
I have a mirror ' -- here shyness and embarrassment choke her word -- but regain her self-control , she add , ` You know that fairy insist on be obey without question .
It be they who change the little house you saw before you into the fountain for which you be now ask , and , have turn me into a frog , they order me to say to the first person who come to the fountain exactly what I repeat to you .
But , my lord , when you stand before me , it be agony to my heart , fill a it be with thought of you , to appear to your eye under so monstrous a form .
However , there be no help for it , and , painful a it be , I have to submit .
I desire your success with all my soul , not only for your own sake , but also for my own , because I could not get back my proper shape till you have become master of the beautiful bird , though I be quite ignorant a to your reason for seek it . '
On this Saphir explain about the state of his father 's health , and all that have be tell before .
On hear this story Serpentine grow very sad , and her lovely eye fill with tear .
` Ah , my lord , ' she say , ` you know nothing of me but what you have see in the mirror ; and I , who can not even name my parent , learn that you be a king 's son . '
In vain Saphir declare that love make them equal ; Serpentine would only reply : ' I love you too much to allow you to marry beneath your rank .
I shall be very unhappy , of course , but I shall never alter my mind .
If I do not find from the fairy that my birth be worthy of you , then , whatever be my feeling , I will never accept your hand . '
The conversation be at this point , and bid fair to last some time longer , when one of the fairy appear in her ivory car , accompany by a beautiful woman past her early youth .
At this moment the bird suddenly awaken , and , fly on to Saphir 's shoulder -LRB- which it never afterwards leave -RRB- , begin fondle him as well a a bird can do .
The fairy tell Serpentine that she be quite satisfied with her conduct , and make herself very agreeable to Saphir , whom she present to the lady she have bring with her , explain that the lady be no other than his Aunt Aglantine , widow of Diamantino .
Then they all fell into each other 's arm , till the fairy mount her chariot , place Aglantine by her side , and Saphir and Serpentine on the front seat .
She also send a message to the Prince 's attendant that they might travel slowly back to the Court of King Peridor , and that the beautiful bird have really be find .
This matter be comfortably arrange , she start off her chariot .
But in spite of the swiftness with which they fly through the air , the time pass even quick for Saphir and Serpentine , who have so much to think about .
They be still quite confused with the pleasure of see each other , when the chariot arrive at King Peridor 's palace .
He have have himself carry to a room on the roof , where his nurse think that he would die at any moment .
Directly the chariot draw within sight of the castle the beautiful bird take flight , and , make straight for the die King , at once cure him of his sickness .
Then she resume her natural shape , and he find that the bird be no other than the Queen Constance , whom he have long believe to be dead .
Peridor be rejoice to embrace his wife and his son once more , and with the help of the fairy begin to make preparation for the marriage of Saphir and Serpentine , who turn out to be the daughter of Aglantine and Diamantino , and as much a princess a he be a prince .
The people of the kingdom be delight , and everybody live happy and content to the end of their life .
THE SEVEN-HEADED SERPENT -LRB- 9 -RRB- -LRB- 9 -RRB- ` Die Siebenkopfige Schlange , ' from Schmidt 's Griechische Mahrchen .
Once upon a time there be a king who determine to take a long voyage .
He assemble his fleet and all the seaman , and set out .
They go straight on night and day , until they come to an island which be cover with large tree , and under every tree lay a lion .
As soon a the King have land his men , the lion all rise up together and try to devour them .
After a long battle they manage to overcome the wild beast , but the great number of the men be kill .
Those who remain alive now go on through the forest and find on the other side of it a beautiful garden , in which all the plant of the world flourish together .
There be also in the garden three spring : the first flow with silver , the second with gold , and the third with pearl .
The men unbuckle their knapsack and fill them with those precious thing .
In the middle of the garden they find a large lake , and when they reach the edge of it the Lake begin to speak , and say to them , ` What men be you , and what bring you here ?
Are you come to visit our king ? '
But they be too much frighten to answer .
Then the Lake say , ` You do well to be afraid , for it be at your peril that you be come hither .
Our king , who have seven head , be now asleep , but in a few minute he will wake up and come to me to take his bath !
Woe to anyone who meet him in the garden , for it be impossible to escape from him .
This be what you must do if you wish to save your life .
Take off your clothes and spread them on the path which lead from here to the castle .
The King will then glide over something soft , which he like very much , and he will be so pleased with that that he will not devour you .
He will give you some punishment , but then he will let you go . '
The men do a the Lake advise them , and wait for a time .
At noon the earth begin to quake , and open in many place , and out of the opening appear lion , tiger , and other wild beast , which surround the castle , and thousand and thousand of beast come out of the castle follow their king , the Seven-headed Serpent .
The Serpent glide over the clothes which be spread for him , come to the Lake , and ask it who have strew those soft thing on the path ?
The Lake answer that it have be do by people who have come to do him homage .
The King command that the men should be bring before him .
They come humbly on their knee , and in a few word tell him their story .
Then he speak to them with a mighty and terrible voice , and say , ` Because you have dare to come here , I lay upon you the punishment .
Every year you must bring me from among your people twelve youth and twelve maiden , that I may devour them .
If you do not do this , I will destroy your whole nation . '
Then he desire one of his beast to show the men the way out of the garden , and dismiss them .
They then leave the island and go back to their own country , where they relate what have happen to them .
Soon the time come round when the king of the beast would expect the youth and maiden to be bring to him .
The King therefore issue a proclamation invite twelve youth and twelve maiden to offer themselves up to save their country ; and immediately many young people , far more than enough , hasten to do so .
A new ship be build , and set with black sail , and in it the youth and maiden who be appoint for the king of the beast embark and set out for his country .
When they arrive there they go at once to the Lake , and this time the lion do not stir , nor do the spring flow , and neither do the Lake speak .
So they wait then , and it be not long before the earth quake even more terribly than the first time .
The Seven-headed Serpent come without his train of beast , saw his prey wait for him , and devour it at one mouthful .
Then the ship 's crew return home , and the same thing happen yearly until many year have pass .
Now the King of this unhappy country be grow old , and so be the Queen , and they have no child .
One day the Queen be sit at the window weep bitterly because she be childless , and know that the crown would therefore pas to stranger after the King 's death .
Suddenly a little old woman appear before her , hold an apple in her hand , and say , ` Why do you weep , my Queen , and what make you so unhappy ? '
` Alas , good mother , ' answer the Queen , ' I be unhappy because I have no child . '
` Is that what vexes you ? '
say the old woman .
` Listen to me .
I be a nun from the Spinning Convent , -LRB- 10 -RRB- and my mother when she die leave me this apple .
Whoever eat this apple shall have a child . '
-LRB- 10 -RRB- Convent Gnothi .
The Queen give money to the old woman , and buy the apple from her .
Then she peel it , eat it , and throw the rind out of the window , and it so happen that a mare that be run loose in the court below ate up the rind .
After a time the Queen have a little boy , and the mare also have a male foal .
The boy and the foal grow up together and love each other like brother .
In course of time the King die , and so do the Queen , and their son , who be now nineteen year old , be leave alone .
One day , when he and his horse be talk together , the Horse say to him , ` Listen to me , for I love you and wish for your good and that of the country .
If you go on every year send twelve youth and twelve maiden to the King of the Beasts , your country will very soon be ruin .
Mount upon my back : I will take you to a woman who can direct you how to kill the Seven-headed Serpent . '
Then the youth mount his horse , who carry him far away to a mountain which be hollow , for in it side be a great underground cavern .
In the cavern sit an old woman spinning .
This be the cloister of the nun , and the old woman be the Abbess .
They all spend their time in spinning , and that be why the convent have this name .
All round the wall of the cavern there be bed cut out of the solid rock , upon which the nun slept , and in the middle a light be burn .
It be the duty of the nun to watch the light in turn , that it might never go out , and if anyone of them let it go out the others put her to death .
As soon a the King 's son saw the old Abbess spinning he throw himself at her foot and entreat her to tell him how he could kill the Seven-headed Serpent .
She make the youth rise , embrace him , and say , ` Know , my son , that it be I who send the nun to your mother and cause you to be bear , and with you the horse , with whose help you will be able to free the world from the monster .
I will tell you what you have to do .
Load your horse with cotton , and go by a secret passage which I will show you , which be hide from the wild beast , to the Serpent 's palace .
You will find the King asleep upon his bed , which be all hung round with bell , and over his bed you will see a sword hanging .
With this sword only it be possible to kill the Serpent , because even if it blade break a new one will grow again for every head the monster have .
Thus you will be able to cut off all his seven head .
And this you must also do in order to deceive the King : you must slip into his bed-chamber very softly , and stop up all the bell which be round his bed with cotton .
Then take down the sword gently , and quickly give the monster a blow on his tail with it .
This will make him waken up , and if he catch sight of you he will seize you .
But you must quickly cut off his first head , and then wait till the next one come up .
Then strike it off also , and so go on till you have cut off all his seven head . '
The old Abbess then give the Prince her blessing , and he set out upon his enterprise , arrive at the Serpent 's castle by follow the secret passage which she have show him , and by carefully attend to all her direction he happily succeed in kill the monster .
As soon a the wild beast heard of their king 's death , they all hasten to the castle , but the youth have long since mount his horse and be already far out of their reach .
They pursue him as fast a they could , but they find it impossible to overtake him , and he reach home in safety .
Thus he free his country from this terrible oppression .
THE GRATEFUL BEASTS -LRB- 11 -RRB- -LRB- 11 -RRB- From the Hungarian .
Kletke .
There be once upon a time a man and woman who have three fine-looking son , but they be so poor that they have hardly enough food for themselves , let alone their child .
So the son determine to set out into the world and to try their luck .
Before start their mother give them each a loaf of bread and her blessing , and have take a tender farewell of her and their father the three set forth on their travel .
The young of the three brother , whose name be Ferko , be a beautiful youth , with a splendid figure , blue eye , fair hair , and a complexion like milk and rose .
His two brother be a jealous of him a they could be , for they think that with his good look he would be sure to be more fortunate than they would ever be .
One day all the three be sit rest under a tree , for the sun be hot and they be tire of walking .
Ferko fell fast asleep , but the other two remain awake , and the eldest say to the second brother , ` What do you say to do our brother Ferko some harm ?
He be so beautiful that everyone take a fancy to him , which be more than they do to u .
If we could only get him out of the way we might succeed good . ' '
I quite agree with you , ' answer the second brother , ` and my advice be to eat up his loaf of bread , and then to refuse to give him a bit of ours until he have promise to let u put out his eye or break his leg . '
His eldest brother be delight with this proposal , and the two wicked wretch seize Ferko 's loaf and eat it all up , while the poor boy be still asleep .
When he do awake he felt very hungry and turn to eat his bread , but his brother cry out , ` You eat your loaf in your sleep , you glutton , and you may starve as long a you like , but you wo n't get a scrap of ours . '
Ferko be at a loss to understand how he could have eat in his sleep , but he say nothing , and fast all that day and the next night .
But on the following morning he be so hungry that he burst into tear , and implore his brother to give him a little bit of their bread .
Then the cruel creature laugh , and repeat what they have say the day before ; but when Ferko continue to beg and beseech them , the eldest say at last , ` If you will let u put out one of your eye and break one of your leg , then we will give you a bit of our bread . '
At these word poor Ferko weep more bitterly than before , and bore the torment of hunger till the sun be high in the heaven ; then he could stand it no longer , and he consent to allow his left eye to be put out and his left leg to be break .
When this be do he stretch out his hand eagerly for the piece of bread , but his brother give him such a tiny scrap that the starve youth finish it in a moment and beseech them for a second bit .
But the more Ferko wept and tell his brother that he be die of hunger , the more they laugh and scold him for his greed .
So he endure the pang of starvation all that day , but when night come his endurance give way , and he let his right eye be put out and his right leg break for a second piece of bread .
After his brother have thus successfully maim and disfigure him for life , they leave him groan on the ground and continue their journey without him .
Poor Ferko eat up the scrap of bread they have leave him and weep bitterly , but no one heard him or come to his help .
Night come on , and the poor blind youth have no eye to close , and could only crawl along the ground , not know in the least where he be go .
But when the sun be once more high in the heaven , Ferko felt the blazing heat scorch him , and seek for some cool shady place to rest his ache limb .
He climb to the top of a hill and lay down in the grass , and a he think under the shadow of a big tree .
But it be no tree he lean against , but a gallows on which two raven be seat .
The one be say to the other a the weary youth lay down , ` Is there anything the least wonderful or remarkable about this neighbourhood ? ' '
I should just think there be , ' reply the other ; ` many thing that do n't exist anywhere else in the world .
There be a lake down there below u , and anyone who bath in it , though he be at death 's door , become sound and well on the spot , and those who wash their eye with the dew on this hill become as sharp-sighted a the eagle , even if they have be blind from their youth . '
` Well , ' answer the first raven , ` my eye be in no want of this heal bath , for , Heaven be praise , they be as good a ever they be ; but my wing have be very feeble and weak ever since it be shoot by an arrow many year ago , so let u fly at once to the lake that I may be restore to health and strength again . '
And so they fly away .
Their word rejoice Ferko 's heart , and he wait impatiently till even should come and he could rub the precious dew on his sightless eye .
At last it begin to grow dusk , and the sun sink behind the mountain ; gradually it become cooler on the hill , and the grass grow wet with dew .
Then Ferko bury his face in the ground till his eye be damp with dewdrop , and in a moment he saw clear than he have ever do in his life before .
The moon be shin brightly , and light him to the lake where he could bathe his poor broken leg .
Then Ferko crawl to the edge of the lake and dip his limb in the water .
No sooner have he do so than his legs felt a sound and strong a they have be before , and Ferko thank the kind fate that have lead him to the hill where he have overheard the raven ' conversation .
He fill a bottle with the healing water , and then continue his journey in the best of spirit .
He have not go far before he meet a wolf , who be limp disconsolately along on three leg , and who on perceive Ferko begin to howl dismally .
` My good friend , ' say the youth , ` be of good cheer , for I can soon heal your leg , ' and with these word he pour some of the precious water over the wolf 's paw , and in a minute the animal be spring about sound and well on all four .
The grateful creature thank his benefactor warmly , and promise Ferko to do him a good turn if he should ever need it .
Ferko continue his way till he come to a ploughed field .
Here he notice a little mouse creep wearily along on it hind paw , for it front paw have both be break in a trap .
Ferko felt so sorry for the little beast that he speak to it in the most friendly manner , and wash it small paw with the healing water .
In a moment the mouse be sound and whole , and after thank the kind physician it scamper away over the ploughed furrow .
Ferko again proceed on his journey , but he have n't go far before a queen bee fly against him , trail one wing behind her , which have be cruelly tear in two by a big bird .
Ferko be no less willing to help her than he have be to help the wolf and the mouse , so he pour some healing drop over the wounded wing .
On the spot the queen bee be cure , and turn to Ferko she say , ' I be most grateful for your kindness , and shall reward you some day . '
And with these word she fly away hum , gaily .
Then Ferko wander on for many a long day , and at length reach a strange kingdom .
Here , he think to himself , he might as well go straight to the palace and offer his service to the King of the country , for he have hear that the King 's daughter be as beautiful a the day .
So he go to the royal palace , and a he enter the door the first people he saw be his two brother who have so shamefully ill-treated him .
They have manage to obtain place in the King 's service , and when they recognise Ferko with his eye and legs sound and well they be frighten to death , for they fear he would tell the King of their conduct , and that they would be hang .
No sooner have Ferko enter the palace than all eye be turn on the handsome youth , and the King 's daughter herself be lose in admiration , for she have never see anyone so handsome in her life before .
His brother notice this , and envy and jealousy be add to their fear , so much so that they determine once more to destroy him .
They go to the King and tell him that Ferko be a wicked magician , who have come to the palace with the intention of carry off the Princess .
Then the King have Ferko bring before him , and say , ` You be accuse of be a magician who wish to rob me of my daughter , and I condemn you to death ; but if you can fulfil three task which I shall set you to do your life shall be spar , on condition you leave the country ; but if you can not perform what I demand you shall be hang on the near tree . '
And turn to the two wicked brother he say , ` Suggest something for him to do ; no matter how difficult , he must succeed in it or die . '
They do not think long , but reply , ` Let him build your Majesty in one day a more beautiful palace than this , and if he fail in the attempt let him be hang . '
The King be pleased with this proposal , and command Ferko to set to work on the following day .
The two brother be delighted , for they think they have now get rid of Ferko for ever .
The poor youth himself be heart-broken , and curse the hour he have cross the boundary of the King 's domain .
As he be wander disconsolately about the meadow round the palace , wonder how he could escape be put to death , a little bee fly past , and settle on his shoulder whisper in his ear , ` What be trouble you , my kind benefactor ?
Can I be of any help to you ?
I be the bee whose wing you heal , and would like to show my gratitude in some way . '
Ferko recognise the queen bee , and say , ` Alas !
how could you help me ?
for I have be set to do a task which no one in the whole world could do , let him be ever such a genius !
To-morrow I must build a palace more beautiful than the King 's , and it must be finish before even . '
` Is that all ? '
answer the bee , ` then you may comfort yourself ; for before the sun go down to-morrow night a palace shall be build unlike any that King have dwell in before .
Just stay here till I come again and tell you that it be finish . '
Having say this she fly merrily away , and Ferko , reassure by her word , lay down on the grass and sleep peacefully till the next morning .
Early on the following day the whole town be on it foot , and everyone wonder how and where the stranger would build the wonderful palace .
The Princess alone be silent and sorrowful , and have cry all night till her pillow be wet , so much do she take the fate of the beautiful youth to heart .
Ferko spend the whole day in the meadow wait the return of the bee .
And when evening be come the queen bee flew by , and perch on his shoulder she say , ` The wonderful palace be ready .
Be of good cheer , and lead the King to the hill just outside the city wall . '
And hum gaily she fly away again .
Ferko go at once to the King and tell him the palace be finish .
The whole court go out to see the wonder , and their astonishment be great at the sight which meet their eye .
A splendid palace rear itself on the hill just outside the wall of the city , make of the most exquisite flower that ever grow in mortal garden .
The roof be all of crimson rose , the window of lily , the wall of white carnation , the floor of glow auricula and violet , the door of gorgeous tulip and narcissus with sunflower for knocker , and all round hyacinth and other sweet-smelling flower bloom in mass , so that the air be perfume far and near and enchant all who be present .
This splendid palace have be build by the grateful queen bee , who have summon all the other bee in the kingdom to help her .
The King 's amazement know no bound , and the Princess 's eye beam with delight a she turn them from the wonderful building on the delighted Ferko .
But the two brother have grow quite green with envy , and only declare the more that Ferko be nothing but a wicked magician .
The King , although he have be surprise and astonish at the way his command have be carry out , be very vexed that the stranger should escape with his life , and turn to the two brother he say , ` He have certainly accomplish the first task , with the aid no doubt of his diabolical magic ; but what shall we give him to do now ?
Let u make it as difficult a possible , and if he fail he shall die . '
Then the eldest brother reply , ` The corn have all be cut , but it have not yet be put into barn ; let the knave collect all the grain in the kingdom into one big heap before to-morrow night , and if as much a a stalk of corn be leave let him be put to death .
The Princess grow white with terror when she hear these word ; but Ferko felt much more cheerful than he have do the first time , and wander out into the meadow again , wonder how he be to get out of the difficulty .
But he could think of no way of escape .
The sun sink to rest and night come on , when a little mouse start out of the grass at Ferko 's foot , and say to him , ` I 'm delighted to see you , my kind benefactor ; but why be you look so sad ?
Can I be of any help to you , and thus repay your great kindness to me ? '
Then Ferko recognise the mouse whose front paw he have heal , and reply , ` Alas I how can you help me in a matter that be beyond any human power !
Before to-morrow night all the grain in the kingdom have to be gather into one big heap , and if as much a a stalk of corn be want I must pay for it with my life . '
` Is that all ? '
answer the mouse ; ` that need n't distress you much .
Just trust in me , and before the sun set again you shall hear that your task be do . '
And with these word the little creature scamper away into the field .
Ferko , who never doubt that the mouse would be as good a it word , lay down comfort on the soft grass and sleep soundly till next morning .
The day pass slowly , and with the evening come the little mouse and say , ` Now there be not a single stalk of corn leave in any field ; they be all collect in one big heap on the hill out there . '
Then Ferko go joyfully to the King and tell him that all he demand have be do .
And the whole Court go out to see the wonder , and be no less astonish than they have be the first time .
For in a heap high than the King 's palace lay all the grain of the country , and not a single stalk of corn have be leave behind in any of the field .
And how have all this be do ?
The little mouse have summon every other mouse in the land to it help , and together they have collect all the grain in the kingdom .
The King could not hide his amazement , but at the same time his wrath increase , and he be more ready than ever to believe the two brother , who keep on repeat that Ferko be nothing more nor less than a wicked magician .
Only the beautiful Princess rejoice over Ferko 's success , and look on him with friendly glance , which the youth return .
The more the cruel King gaze on the wonder before him , the more angry he become , for he could not , in the face of his promise , put the stranger to death .
He turn once more to the two brother and say , ` His diabolical magic have help him again , but now what third task shall we set him to do ?
No matter how impossible it be , he must do it or die . '
The eldest answered quickly , ` Let him drive all the wolf of the kingdom on to this hill before to-morrow night .
If he do this he may go free ; if not he shall be hang a you have say . '
At these word the Princess burst into tear , and when the King saw this he order her to be shut up in a high tower and carefully guard till the dangerous magician should either have leave the kingdom or be hang on the near tree .
Ferko wander out into the field again , and sit down on the stump of a tree wonder what he should do next .
Suddenly a big wolf run up to him , and stand still say , ` I 'm very glad to see you again , my kind benefactor .
What be you think about all alone by yourself ?
If I can help you in any way only say the word , for I would like to give you a proof of my gratitude . '
Ferko at once recognise the wolf whose broken leg he have heal , and tell him what he have to do the following day if he wish to escape with his life .
` But how in the world , ' he add , ` be I to collect all the wolf of the kingdom on to that hill over there ? '
` If that 's all you want do , ' answer the wolf , ` you need n't worry yourself .
I 'll undertake the task , and you 'll hear from me again before sunset to-morrow .
Keep your spirit up . '
And with these word he trot quickly away .
Then the youth rejoice greatly , for now he felt that his life be safe ; but he grow very sad when he think of the beautiful Princess , and that he would never see her again if he leave the country .
He lay down once more on the grass and soon fell fast asleep .
All the next day he spend wander about the field , and toward even the wolf come run to him in a great hurry and say , ' I have collect together all the wolf in the kingdom , and they be wait for you in the wood .
Go quickly to the King , and tell him to go to the hill that he may see the wonder you have do with his own eye .
Then return at once to me and get on my back , and I will help you to drive all the wolf together . '
Then Ferko go straight to the palace and tell the King that he be ready to perform the third task if he would come to the hill and see it do .
Ferko himself return to the field , and mount on the wolf 's back he ride to the wood close by .
Quick a lightning the wolf fly round the wood , and in a minute many hundred wolf rise up before him , increase in number every moment , till they could be count by thousand .
He drive them all before him on to the hill , where the King and his whole Court and Ferko 's two brother be stand .
Only the lovely Princess be not present , for she be shut up in her tower weep bitterly .
The wicked brother stamp and foam with rage when they saw the failure of their wicked design .
But the King be overcome by a sudden terror when he saw the enormous pack of wolf approach nearer and nearer , and call out to Ferko he say , ` Enough , enough , we do n't want any more . '
But the wolf on whose back Ferko sat , say to it rider , ` Go on !
go on ! '
and at the same moment many more wolf run up the hill , howl horribly and show their white teeth .
The King in his terror call out , ` Stop a moment ; I will give you half my kingdom if you will drive all the wolf away . '
But Ferko pretend not to hear , and drive some more thousand before him , so that everyone quake with horror and fear .
Then the King raise his voice again and call out , ` Stop !
you shall have my whole kingdom , if you will only drive these wolf back to the place they come from . '
But the wolf keep on encourage Ferko , and say , ` Go on !
go on ! '
So he lead the wolf on , till at last they fell on the King and on the wicked brother , and eat them and the whole Court up in a moment .
Then Ferko go straight to the palace and set the Princess free , and on the same day he marry her and be crown King of the country .
And the wolf all go peacefully back to their own home , and Ferko and his bride live for many year in peace and happiness together , and be much beloved by great and small in the land .
THE GIANTS AND THE HERD-BOY -LRB- 12 -RRB- -LRB- 12 -RRB- From the Bukowniaer .
Von Wliolocki .
There be once upon a time a poor boy who have neither father nor mother .
In order to gain a living he look after the sheep of a great Lord .
Day and night he spend out in the open field , and only when it be very wet and stormy do he take refuge in a little hut on the edge of a big forest .
Now one night , when he be sit on the grass beside his flock , he hear not very far from him the sound a of some one cry .
He rise up and follow the direction of the noise .
To his dismay and astonishment he find a Giant lying at the entrance of the wood ; he be about to run off as fast a his leg could carry him , when the Giant call out : ` Do n't be afraid , I wo n't harm you .
On the contrary , I will reward you handsomely if you will bind up my foot .
I hurt it when I be try to root up an oak-tree . '
The Herd-boy take off his shirt , and bind up the Giant 's wounded foot with it .
Then the Giant rise up and say , ` Now come and I will reward you .
We be go to celebrate a marriage to-day , and I promise you we shall have plenty of fun .
Come and enjoy yourself , but in order that my brother may n't see you , put this band round your waist and then you 'll be invisible . '
With these word he hand the Herd-boy a belt , and walk on in front he lead him to a fountain where hundred of Giants and Giantesses be assemble prepare to hold a wedding .
They dance and play different game till midnight ; then one of the Giants tear up a plant by it root , and all the Giants and Giantesses make themselves so thin that they disappear into the earth through the hole make by the uprooting of the plant .
The wounded Giant remain behind to the last and call out , ` Herd-boy , where be you ? '
` Here I be , close to you , ' be the reply .
` Touch me , ' say the Giant , ` so that you too may come with u under ground . '
The Herd-boy do a he be tell , and before he could have believe it possible he find himself in a big hall , where even the wall be make of pure gold .
Then to his astonishment he saw that the hall be furnish with the table and chair that belong to his master .
In a few minute the company begin to eat and drink .
The banquet be a very gorgeous one , and the poor youth fell to and eat and drink lustily .
When he have eat and drink as much a he could he think to himself , ` Why should n't I put a loaf of bread in my pocket ?
I shall be glad of it to-morrow . '
So he seize a loaf when no one be look and stow it away under his tunic .
No sooner have he do so than the wounded Giant limp up to him and whisper softly , ` Herd-boy , where be you ? '
` Here I be , ' reply the youth .
` Then hold on to me , ' say the Giant , ` so that I may lead you up above again . '
So the Herd-boy hold on to the Giant , and in a few moment he find himself on the earth once more , but the Giant have vanish .
The Herd-boy return to his sheep , and take off the invisible belt which he hide carefully in his bag .
The next morning the lad felt hungry , and think he would cut off a piece of the loaf he have carry away from the Giants ' wedding feast , and eat it .
But although he try with all his might , he could n't cut off the small piece .
Then in despair he bite the loaf , and what be his astonishment when a piece of gold fell out of his mouth and roll at his foot .
He bite the bread a second and third time , and each time a piece of gold fell out of his mouth ; but the bread remain untouched .
The Herd-boy be very much delight over his stroke of good fortune , and , hide the magic loaf in his bag , he hurry off to the near village to buy himself something to eat , and then return to his sheep .
Now the Lord whose sheep the Herd-boy look after have a very lovely daughter , who always smile and nod to the youth when she walk with her father in his field .
For a long time the Herd-boy have make up his mind to prepare a surprise for this beautiful creature on her birthday .
So when the day approach he put on his invisible belt , take a sack of gold piece with him , and slip into her room in the middle of the night , he place the bag of gold beside her bed and return to his sheep .
The girl 's joy be great , and so be her parent ' next day when they find the sack full of gold piece .
The Herd-boy be so pleased to think what pleasure he have give that the next night he place another bag of gold beside the girl 's bed .
And this he continue to do for seven night , and the girl and her parent make up their mind that it must be a good Fairy who bring the gold every night .
But one night they determine to watch , and see from their hiding place who the bringer of the sack of gold really be .
On the eighth night a fearful storm of wind and rain come on while the Herd-boy be on his way to bring the beautiful girl another bag of gold .
Then for the first time he notice , just a he reach his master 's house , that he have forget the belt which make him invisible .
He do n't like the idea of go back to his hut in the wind and wet , so he just step a he be into the girl 's room , lay the sack of gold beside her , and be turn to leave the room , when his master confront him and say , ` You young rogue , so you be go to steal the gold that a good Fairy bring every night , be you ? '
The Herd-boy be so take aback by his word , that he stand tremble before him , and do not dare to explain his presence .
Then his master speak .
` As you have hitherto always behave well in my service I will not send you to prison ; but leave your place instantly and never let me see your face again . '
So the Herd-boy go back to his hut , and take his loaf and belt with him , he go to the near town .
There he buy himself some fine clothes , and a beautiful coach with four horse , hire two servant , and drive back to his master .
You may imagine how astonished he be to see his Herd-boy returning to him in this manner !
Then the youth tell him of the piece of good luck that have befall him , and ask him for the hand of his beautiful daughter .
This be readily grant , and the two live in peace and happiness to the end of their life .
THE INVISIBLE PRINCE Once upon a time there live a Fairy who have power over the earth , the sea , fire , and the air ; and this Fairy have four son .
The eldest , who be quick and lively , with a vivid imagination , she make Lord of Fire , which be in her opinion the noble of all the element .
To the second son , whose wisdom and prudence make amends for his be rather dull , she give the government of the earth .
The third be wild and savage , and of monstrous stature ; and the Fairy , his mother , who be ashamed of his defect , hop to hide them by create him King of the Seas .
The young , who be the slave of his passion and of a very uncertain temper , become Prince of the Air .
Being the young , he be naturally his mother 's favourite ; but this do not blind her to his weakness , and she foresee that some day he would suffer much pain through fall in love .
So she think the best thing she could do be to bring him up with a horror of woman ; and , to her great delight , she saw this dislike only increase a he grow old .
From his early childhood he hear nothing but story of prince who have fall into all sort of trouble through love ; and she draw such terrible picture of poor little Cupid that the young man have no difficulty in believe that he be the root of all evil .
All the time that this wise mother could spare from fill her son with hatred for all womenkind she pass in give him a love of the pleasure of the chase , which henceforth become his chief joy .
For his amusement she have make a new forest , plant with the most splendid tree , and turn loose in it every animal that could be find in any of the four quarter of the globe .
In the midst of this forest she build a palace which have not it equal for beauty in the whole world , and then she consider that she have do enough to make any prince happy .
Now it be all very well to abuse the God of Love , but a man can not struggle against his fate .
In his secret heart the Prince get tire of his mother 's constant talk on this subject ; and when one day she quit the palace to attend to some business , beg him never to go beyond the ground , he at once jump at the chance of disobey her .
Left to himself the Prince soon forget the wise counsel of his mother , and feel very much bore with his own company , he order some of the spirit of the air to carry him to the court of a neighbouring sovereign .
This kingdom be situate in the Island of Roses , where the climate be so delicious that the grass be always green and the flower always sweet .
The wave , instead of beat on the rock , seem to die gently on the shore ; cluster of golden bush cover the land , and the vine be bent low with grape .
The King of this island have a daughter name Rosalie , who be more lovely than any girl in the whole world .
No sooner have the eye of the Prince of the Air rest on her than he forget all the terrible woe which have be prophesy to him ever since he be bear , for in one single moment the plan of year be often upset .
He instantly begin to think how best to make himself happy , and the short way that occur to him be to have Rosalie carry off by his attendant spirit .
It be easy to imagine the feeling of the King when he find that his daughter have vanish .
He weep her loss night and day , and his only comfort be to talk over it with a young and unknown prince , who have just arrive at the Court .
Alas !
he do not know what a deep interest the stranger have in Rosalie , for he too have see her , and have fall a victim to her charm .
One day the King , more sorrowful than usual , be walk sadly along the sea-shore , when after a long silence the unknown Prince , who be his only companion , suddenly speak .
` There be no evil without a remedy , ' he say to the unhappy father ; ` and if you will promise me your daughter in marriage , I will undertake to bring her back to you . '
` You be try to soothe me by vain promise , ' answer the King .
` Did I not see her caught up into the air , in spite of cry which would have soften the heart of any one but the barbarian who have rob me of her ?
The unfortunate girl be pin away in some unknown land , where perhaps no foot of man have ever tread , and I shall see her no more .
But go , generous stranger ; bring back Rosalie if you can , and live happy with her ever after in this country , of which I now declare you heir . '
Although the stranger 's name and rank be unknown to Rosalie 's father , he be really the son of the King of the Golden Isle , which have for capital a city that extend from one sea to another .
The wall , wash by the quiet water , be cover with gold , which make one think of the yellow sand .
Above them be a rampart of orange and lemon tree , and all the street be pave with gold .
The King of this beautiful island have one son , for whom a life of adventure have be foretell at his birth .
This so frightened his father and mother that in order to comfort them a Fairy , who happen to be present at the time , produce a little pebble which she tell them to keep for the Prince till he grow up , a by put it in his mouth he would become invisible , as long a he do not try to speak , for if he do the stone would lose all it virtue .
In this way the good fairy hop that the Prince would be protect against all danger .
No sooner do the Prince begin to grow out of boyhood than he long to see if the other country of the world be as splendid a the one in which he live .
So , under pretence of visit some small island that belong to his father , he set out .
But a frightful storm drive his ship on to unknown shore , where most of his follower be put to death by the savage , and the Prince himself only manage to escape by make use of his magic pebble .
By this mean he pass through the midst of them unseen , and wander on till he reach the coast , where he re-embarked on board his ship .
The first land he sight be the Island of Roses , and he go at once to the court of the King , Rosalie 's father .
The moment his eye behold the Princess , he fell in love with her like everyone else .
He have already spend several month in this condition when the Prince of the Air whirl her away , to the grief and despair of every man on the island .
But sad though everybody be , the Prince of the Golden Isle be perfectly inconsolable , and he pass both day and night in bemoan his loss .
` Alas ! '
he cry ; ` shall I never see my lovely Princess again ? '
Who know where she may be , and what fairy may have her in his keep ?
I be only a man , but I be strong in my love , and I will seek the whole world through till I find her . '
So say , he leave the court , and make ready for his journey .
He travel many weary day without hear a single word of the lost Princess , till one morning , a he be walk through a thick forest , he suddenly perceive a magnificent palace stand at the end of a pine avenue , and his heart bound to think that he might be gaze on Rosalie 's prison .
He hasten his step , and quickly arrive at the gate of the palace , which be form of a single agate .
The gate swung open to let him through , and he next pass successively three court , surround by deep ditch fill with running water , with bird of brilliant plumage fly about the bank .
Everything around be rare and beautiful , but the Prince scarcely raise his eye to all these wonder .
He think only of the Princess and where he should find her , but in vain he open every door and search in every corner ; he neither saw Rosalie nor anyone else .
At last there be no place leave for him to search but a little wood , which contain in the centre a sort of hall build entirely of orange-trees , with four small room open out of the corner .
Three of these be empty except for statue and wonderful thing , but in the fourth the Invisible Prince catch sight of Rosalie .
His joy at behold her again be , however , somewhat lessen by see that the Prince of the Air be kneel at her foot , and plead his own cause .
But it be in vain that he implore her to listen ; she only shake her head .
` No , ' be all she would say ; ` you snatch me from my father whom I love , and all the splendour in the world can never console me .
Go !
I can never feel anything towards you but hate and contempt . '
With these word she turn away and enter her own apartment .
Unknown to herself the Invisible Prince have follow her , but fear to be discover by the Princess in the presence of others , he make up his mind to wait quietly till dark ; and employ the long hour in write a poem to the Princess , which he lay on the bed beside her .
This do , he think of nothing but how best to deliver Rosalie , and he resolve to take advantage of a visit which the Prince of the Air pay every year to his mother and brother in order to strike the blow .
One day Rosalie be sit alone in her room thinking of her trouble when she suddenly saw a pen get up from off the desk and begin to write all by itself on a sheet of white paper .
As she do not know that it be guide by an invisible hand she be very much astonish , and the moment that the pen have cease to move she instantly go over to the table , where she find some lovely verse , tell her that another share her distress , whatever they might be , and love her with all his heart ; and that he would never rest until he have deliver her from the hand of the man she hat .
Thus encourage , she tell him all her story , and of the arrival of a young stranger in her father 's palace , whose look have so charm her that since that day she have think of no one else .
At these word the Prince could contain himself no longer .
He take the pebble from his mouth , and fling himself at Rosalie 's foot .
When they have get over the first rapture of meet they begin to make plan to escape from the power of the Prince of the Air .
But this do not prove easy , for the magic stone would only serve for one person at a time , and in order to save Rosalie the Prince of the Golden Isle would have to expose himself to the fury of his enemy .
But Rosalie would not hear of this .
` No , Prince , ' she say ; ` since you be here this island no longer feel a prison .
Besides , you be under the protection of a Fairy , who always visit your father 's court at this season .
Go instantly and seek her , and when she be find implore the gift of another stone with similar power .
Once you have that , there will be no further difficulty in the way of escape . '
The Prince of the Air return a few day later from his mother 's palace , but the Invisible Prince have already set out .
He have , however , entirely forget the road by which he have come , and lose himself for so long in the forest , that when at last he reach home the Fairy have already leave , and , in spite of all his grief , there be nothing for it but to wait till the Fairy 's next visit , and allow Rosalie to suffer three month longer .
This think drive him to despair , and he have almost make up his mind to return to the place of her captivity , when one day , a he be stroll along an alley in the wood , he saw a huge oak open it trunk , and out of it step two Princes in earnest conversation .
As our hero have the magic stone in his mouth they imagine themselves alone , and do not lower their voice .
` What ! '
say one , ` be you always go to allow yourself to be torment by a passion which can never end happily , and in your whole kingdom can you find nothing else to satisfy you ? '
` What be the use , ' reply the other , ` of be Prince of the Gnomes , and have a mother who be queen over all the four element , if I can not win the love of the Princess Argentine ?
From the moment that I first saw her , sit in the forest surround by flower , I have never cease to think of her night and day , and , although I love her , I be quite convinced that she will never care for me .
You know that I have in my palace the cabinet of the year .
In the first , great mirror reflect the past ; in the second , we contemplate the present ; in the third , the future can be read .
It be here that I flee after I have gaze on the Princess Argentine , but instead of love I only saw scorn and contempt .
Think how great must be my devotion , when , in spite of my fate , I still love on ! '
Now the Prince of the Golden Isle be enchant with this conversation , for the Princess Argentine be his sister , and he hop , by mean of her influence over the Prince of the Gnomes , to obtain from his brother the release of Rosalie .
So he joyfully return to his father 's palace , where he find his friend the Fairy , who at once present him with a magic pebble like his own .
As may be imagine , he lose no time in set out to deliver Rosalie , and travel so fast that he soon arrive at the forest , in the midst of which she lay a captive .
But though he find the palace he do not find Rosalie .
He hunt high and low , but there be no sign of her , and his despair be so great that he be ready , a thousand time over , to take his own life .
At last he remember the conversation of the two Princes about the cabinet of the year , and that if he could manage to reach the oak tree , he would be certain to discover what have become of Rosalie .
Happily , he soon find out the secret of the passage and enter the cabinet of the present , where he saw reflect in the mirror the unfortunate Rosalie sit on the floor weep bitterly , and surround with genius , who never leave her night or day .
This sight only increase the misery of the Prince , for he do not know where the castle be , nor how to set about find it .
However , he resolve to seek the whole world through till he come to the right place .
He begin by set sail in a favourable wind , but his bad luck follow him even on the sea .
He have scarcely lose sight of the land when a violent storm arose , and after several hour of beat about , the vessel be drive on to some rock , on which it dash itself to bit .
The Prince be fortunate enough to be able to lay hold of a floating spar , and contrive to keep himself afloat ; and , after a long struggle with the wind and wave , he be cast upon a strange island .
But what be his surprise , on reach the shore , to hear sound of the most heartrending distress , mingle with the sweet song which have ever charm him !
His curiosity be instantly rouse , and he advance cautiously till he saw two huge dragon guard the gate of a wood .
They be terrible indeed to look upon .
Their body be cover with glittering scale ; their curly tail extend far over the land ; flame dart from their mouth and nose , and their eye would have make the brave shudder ; but a the Prince be invisible and they do not see him , he slip past them into the wood .
He find himself at once in a labyrinth , and wander about for a long time without meet anyone ; in fact , the only sight he saw be a circle of human hand , stick out of the ground above the wrist , each with a bracelet of gold , on which a name be write .
The farther he advance in the labyrinth the more curious he become , till he be stop by two corps lie in the midst of a cypress alley , each with a scarlet cord round his neck and a bracelet on his arm on which be engrave their own name , and those of two Princesses .
The invisible Prince recognise these dead men a Kings of two large island near his own home , but the name of the Princesses be unknown to him .
He grieve for their unhappy fate , and at once proceed to bury them ; but no sooner have he lay them in their graf , than their hand start up through the earth and remain stick up like those of their fellow .
The Prince go on his way , think about this strange adventure , when suddenly at the turn of the walk he perceive a tall man whose face be the picture of misery , hold in his hand a silken cord of the exact colour of those round the neck of the dead men .
A few step far this man come up with another a miserable to the full a he himself ; they silently embrace , and then without a word pass the cord round their throat , and fell dead side by side .
In vain the Prince rush to their assistance and strive to undo the cord .
He could not loosen it ; so he bury them like the others and continue his path .
He felt , however , that great prudence be necessary , or he himself might become the victim of some enchantment ; and he be thankful to slip past the dragon , and enter a beautiful park , with clear stream and sweet flower , and a crowd of men and maiden .
But he could not forget the terrible thing he have see , and hop eagerly for a clue to the mystery .
Noticing two young people talk together , he draw near think that he might get some explanation of what puzzle him .
And so he do .
` You swear , ' say the Prince , ` that you will love me till you die , but I fear your faithless heart , and I feel that I shall soon have to seek the Fairy Despair , ruler of half this island .
She carry off the lover who have be cast away by their mistress , and wish to have do with life .
She place them in a labyrinth where they be condemn to walk for ever , with a bracelet on their arm and a cord round their neck , unless they meet another as miserable a themselves .
Then the cord be pull and they lie where they fall , till they be bury by the first passer by .
Terrible a this death would be , ' add the Prince , ` it would be sweet than life if I have lose your love . '
The sight of all these happy lover only make the Prince grieve the more , and he wander along the seashore spend his day ; but one day he be sit on a rock bewail his fate , and the impossibility of leave the island , when all in a moment the sea appear to raise itself nearly to the sky , and the cave echo with hideous scream .
As he look a woman rise from the depth of the sea , fly madly before a furious giant .
The cry she utter soften the heart of the Prince ; he take the stone from his mouth , and draw his sword he rush after the giant , so a to give the lady time to escape .
But hardly have he come within reach of the enemy , than the giant touch him with a ring that he hold in his hand , and the Prince remain immovable where he stand .
The giant then hastily rejoin his prey , and , seize her in his arm , he plunge her into the sea .
Then he send some triton to bind chain about the Prince of the Golden Isle , and he too felt himself borne to the depth of the ocean , and without the hope of ever again see the Princess .
Now the giant whom the invisible have so rashly attack be the Lord of the Sea , and the third son of the Queen of the Elements , and he have touch the youth with a magic ring which enable a mortal to live under water .
So the Prince of the Golden Isle find , when bound in chain by the triton , he be carry through the home of strange monster and past immense seaweed forest , till he reach a vast sandy space , surround by huge rock .
On the tallest of the rock sit the giant a on a throne .
` Rash mortal , ' say he , when the Prince be drag before him , ` you have deserve death , but you shall live only to suffer more cruelly .
Go , and add to the number of those whom it be my pleasure to torture . '
At these word the unhappy Prince find himself tie to a rock ; but he be not alone in his misfortune , for all round him be chain Princes and Princesses , whom the giant have lead captive .
Indeed , it be his chief delight to create a storm , in order to add to the list of his prisoner .
As his hand be fasten , it be impossible for the Prince of the Golden Isle to make use of his magic stone , and he pass his night and day dream of Rosalie .
But at last the time come when the giant take it into his head to amuse himself by arrange fight between some of his captive .
Lots be draw , and one fell upon our Prince , whose chain be immediately loosen .
The moment he be set free , he snatch up his stone , and become invisible .
The astonishment of the giant at the sudden disappearance of the Prince may well be imagine .
He order all the passage to be watch , but it be too late , for the Prince have already glide between two rock .
He wander for a long while through the forest , where he meet nothing but fearful monster ; he climb rock after rock , steer his way from tree to tree , till at length he arrive at the edge of the sea , at the foot of a mountain that he remember to have see in the cabinet of the present , where Rosalie be hold captive .
Filled with joy , he make his way to the top of the mountain which pierce the cloud , and there he find a palace .
He enter , and in the middle of a long gallery he discover a crystal room , in the midst of which sit Rosalie , guard night and day by genius .
There be no door anywhere , nor any window .
At this sight the Prince become more puzzled than ever , for he do not know how he be to warn Rosalie of his return .
Yet it break his heart to see her weep from dawn till dark .
One day , a Rosalie be walk up and down her room , she be surprised to see that the crystal which serve for a wall have grow cloudy , a if some one have breathe on it , and , what be more , wherever she move the brightness of the crystal always become clouded .
This be enough to cause the Princess to suspect that her lover have return .
In order to set the Prince of the Air 's mind at rest she begin by be very gracious to him , so that when she beg that her captivity might be a little lightened she should not be refuse .
At first the only favour she ask be to be allow to walk for one hour every day up and down the long gallery .
This be grant , and the Invisible Prince speedily take the opportunity of hand her the stone , which she at once slip into her mouth .
No word can paint the fury of her captor at her disappearance .
He order the spirit of the air to fly through all space , and to bring back Rosalie wherever she might be .
They instantly fly off to obey his command , and spread themselves over the whole earth .
Meantime Rosalie and the Invisible Prince have reach , hand in hand , a door of the gallery which lead through a terrace into the garden .
In silence they glide along , and think themselves already safe , when a furious monster dash itself by accident against Rosalie and the Invisible Prince , and in her fright she let go his hand .
No one can speak as long a he be invisible , and besides , they know that the spirit be all around them , and at the slight sound they would be recognise ; so all they could do be to feel about in the hope that their hand might once more meet .
But , ala !
the joy of liberty last but a short time .
The Princess , have wander in vain up and down the forest , stop at last on the edge of a fountain .
As she walk she write on the tree : ` If ever the Prince , my lover , come this way , let him know that it be here I dwell , and that I sit daily on the edge of this fountain , mingle my tear with it water . '
These word be read by one of the genius , who repeat them to his master .
The Prince of the Air , in his turn make himself invisible , be lead to the fountain , and wait for Rosalie .
When she draw near he hold out his hand , which she grasp eagerly , take it for that of her lover ; and , seize his opportunity , the Prince pass a cord round her arm , and throw off his invisibility cry to his spirit to drag her into the low pit .
It be at this moment that the Invisible Prince appear , and at the sight of the Prince of the Genii mounting into the air , hold a silken cord , he guess instantly that he be carry off Rosalie .
He felt so overwhelm by despair that he think for an instant of put an end to his life .
` Can I survive my misfortune ? '
he cry . '
I fancy I have come to an end of my trouble , and now they be bad than ever .
What will become of me ?
Never can I discover the place where this monster will hide Rosalie . '
The unhappy youth have determine to let himself die , and indeed his sorrow alone be enough to kill him , when the thought that by mean of the cabinet of the year he might find out where the Princess be imprison , give him a little ray of comfort .
So he continue to walk on through the forest , and after some hour he arrive at the gate of a temple , guard by two huge lion .
Being invisible , he be able to enter unharmed .
In the middle of the temple be an altar , on which lay a book , and behind the altar hang a great curtain .
The Prince approach the altar and open the book , which contain the name of all the lover in the world : and in it he read that Rosalie have be carry off by the Prince of the Air to an abyss which have no entrance except the one that lay by way of the Fountain of Gold .
Now , a the Prince have not the small idea where this fountain be to be find , it might be think that he be not much near Rosalie than before .
This be not , however , the view take by the Prince .
` Though every step that I take may perhaps lead me further from her , ' he say to himself , ' I be still thankful to know that she be alive somewhere . '
On leave the temple the Invisible Prince saw six path lie before him , each of which lead through the wood .
He be hesitate which to choose , when he suddenly behold two people come towards him , down the track which lay most to his right .
They turn out to be the Prince Gnome and his friend , and the sudden desire to get some news of his sister , Princess Argentine , cause the Invisible Prince to follow them and to listen to their conversation .
` Do you think , ' the Prince Gnome be say , ` do you think that I would not break my chain if I could ?
I know that the Princess Argentine will never love me , yet each day I feel her dearer still .
And a if this be not enough , I have the horror of feeling that she probably love another .
So I have resolve to put myself out of my pain by mean of the Golden Fountain .
A single drop of it water fall on the sand around will trace the name of my rival in her heart .
I dread the test , and yet this very dread convinces me of my misfortune . '
It may be imagine that after listen to these word the Invisible Prince follow Prince Gnome like his shadow , and after walk some time they arrive at the Golden Fountain .
The unhappy lover stoop down with a sigh , and dip his finger in the water let fall a drop on the sand .
It instantly write the name of Prince Flame , his brother .
The shock of this discovery be so real , that Prince Gnome sink faint into the arm of his friend .
Meanwhile the Invisible Prince be turn over in his mind how he could best deliver Rosalie .
As , since he have be touch by the Giant 's ring , he have the power to live in the water as well a on land , he at once dive into the fountain .
He perceive in one corner a door lead into the mountain , and at the foot of the mountain be a high rock on which be fix an iron ring with a cord attach .
The Prince promptly guess that the cord be use to chain the Princess , and draw his sword and cut it .
In a moment he felt the Princess 's hand in his , for she have always keep her magic pebble in her mouth , in spite of the prayer and entreaty of the Prince of the Air to make herself visible .
So hand in hand the invisible Prince and Rosalie cross the mountain ; but a the Princess have no power of living under water , she could not pass the Golden Fountain .
Speechless and invisible they cling together on the brink , tremble at the frightful tempest the Prince of the Air have raise in his fury .
The storm have already last many day when tremendous heat begin to make itself felt .
The lightning flash , the thunder rattle , fire bolt fell from heaven , burn up the forest and even the field of corn .
In one instant the very streams be dry up , and the Prince , seize his opportunity , carry the Princess over the Golden Fountain .
It take them a long time still to reach the Golden Isle , but at last they get there , and we may be quite sure they never want to leave it any more .
THE CROW -LRB- 13 -RRB- -LRB- 13 -RRB- From the Polish .
Kletke .
Once upon a time there be three Princesses who be all three young and beautiful ; but the young , although she be not fair than the other two , be the most loveable of them all .
About half a mile from the palace in which they live there stand a castle , which be uninhabited and almost a ruin , but the garden which surround it be a mass of bloom flower , and in this garden the young Princess use often to walk .
One day when she be pace to and fro under the lime tree , a black crow hop out of a rose-bush in front of her .
The poor beast be all torn and bleeding , and the kind little Princess be quite unhappy about it .
When the crow saw this it turn to her and say : ' I be not really a black crow , but an enchanted Prince , who have be doom to spend his youth in misery .
If you only like , Princess , you could save me .
But you would have to say good-bye to all your own people and come and be my constant companion in this ruined castle .
There be one habitable room in it , in which there be a golden bed ; there you will have to live all by yourself , and do n't forget that whatever you may see or hear in the night you must not scream out , for if you give as much a a single cry my suffering will be double . '
The good-natured Princess at once leave her home and her family and hurry to the ruin castle , and take possession of the room with the golden bed .
When night approach she lay down , but though she shut her eye tight sleep would not come .
At midnight she hear to her great horror some one come along the passage , and in a minute her door be flung wide open and a troop of strange being enter the room .
They at once proceed to light a fire in the huge fireplace ; then they place a great cauldron of boil water on it .
When they have do this , they approach the bed on which the trembling girl lay , and , scream and yell all the time , they drag her towards the cauldron .
She nearly die with fright , but she never utter a sound .
Then of a sudden the cock crew , and all the evil spirit vanish .
At the same moment the crow appear and hop all round the room with joy .
It thank the Princess most heartily for her goodness , and say that it suffering have already be greatly lessen .
Now one of the Princess 's elder sister , who be very inquisitive , have find out about everything , and go to pay her young sister a visit in the ruined castle .
She implore her so urgently to let her spend the night with her in the golden bed , that at last the good-natured little Princess consent .
But at midnight , when the odd folk appear , the elder sister scream with terror , and from this time on the young Princess insist always on keep watch alone .
So she live in solitude all the daytime , and at night she would have be frighten , have she not be so brave ; but every day the crow come and thank her for her endurance , and assure her that his suffering be far less than they have be .
And so two year pass away , when one day the crow come to the Princess and say : ` In another year I shall be free from the spell I be under at present , because then the seven year will be over .
But before I can resume my natural form , and take possession of the belonging of my forefather , you must go out into the world and take service a a maidservant . '
The young Princess consent at once , and for a whole year she serve a a maid ; but in spite of her youth and beauty she be very badly treat , and suffer many thing .
One evening , when she be spin flax , and have work her little white hand weary , she hear a rustling beside her and a cry of joy .
Then she saw a handsome youth stand beside her ; who kneel down at her foot and kiss the little weary white hand . '
I be the Prince , ' he say , ` who you in your goodness , when I be wander about in the shape of a black crow , free from the most awful torment .
Come now to my castle with me , and let u live there happily together . '
So they go to the castle where they have both endure so much .
But when they reach it , it be difficult to believe that it be the same , for it have all be rebuild and do up again .
And there they live for a hundred year , a hundred year of joy and happiness .
HOW SIX MEN TRAVELLED THROUGH THE WIDE WORLD There be once upon a time a man who understand all sort of art ; he serve in the war , and bore himself bravely and well ; but when the war be over , he get his discharge , and set out on his travel with three farthing of his pay in his pocket .
` Wait , ' he say ; ` that do not please me ; only let me find the right people , and the King shall yet give me all the treasure of his kingdom . '
He stride angrily into the forest , and there he saw a man stand who have uproot six tree a if they be straw .
He say to him , ` Will you be my servant and travel with me ? '
` Yes , ' he answer ; ` but first of all I will take this little bundle of stick home to my mother , ' and he take one of the tree and wind it round the other five , raise the bundle on his shoulder and bore it off .
Then he come back and go with his master , who say , ` We two ought to be able to travel through the wide world ! '
And when they have go a little way they come upon a hunter , who be on his knee , his gun on his shoulder , aim at something .
The master say to him , ` Hunter , what be you aim at ? '
He answer , ` Two mile from this place sit a fly on a branch of an oak ; I want to shoot out it left eye . '
` Oh , go with me , ' say the man ; ` if we three be together we shall easily travel through the wide world . '
The hunter agree and go with him , and they come to seven windmill whose sail be go round quite fast , and yet there be not a breath of wind , nor be a leaf moving .
The man say , ' I do n't know what be turn those windmill ; there be not the slight breeze blowing . '
So he walk on with his servant , and when they have go two mile they saw a man sit on a tree , hold one of his nostril and blow out of the other .
` Fellow , what be you puff at up there ? '
ask the man .
He reply , ` Two mile from this place be stand seven windmill ; see , I be blow to drive them round . '
` Oh , go with me , ' say the man ; ` if we four be together we shall easily travel through the wide world . '
So the blower get down and go with him , and after a time they saw a man who be stand on one leg , and have unstrapped the other and lay it near him .
Then say the master , ` You have make yourself very comfortable to rest ! ' '
I be a runner , ' answer he ; ` and so that I shall not go too quickly , I have unstrapped one leg ; when I run with two leg , I go faster than a bird fly . '
` Oh , go with me ; if we five be together , we shall easily travel through the wide world . '
So he go with him , and , not long afterwards , they meet a man who wear a little hat , but he have it slouch over one ear .
` Manners , manner ! '
say the master to him ; ` do n't hang your hat over one ear ; you look like a madman ! ' '
I dare not , ' say the other , ` for if I be to put my hat on straight , there would come such a frost that the very bird in the sky would freeze and fall dead on the earth . '
` Oh , go with me , ' say the master ; ` if we six be together , we shall easily travel through the wide world .
Now the Six come to a town in which the King have proclaim that whoever should run with his daughter in a race , and win , should become her husband ; but if he lose , he must lose his head .
This be report to the man who declare he would compete , ` but , ' he say , ' I shall let my servant run for me . '
The King reply , ` Then both your head must be stake , and your head and his must be guarantee for the winner . '
When this be agree upon and settle , the man strap on the runner 's other leg , say to him , ` Now be nimble , and see that we win ! '
It be arrange that whoever should first bring water out of a stream a long way off , should be the victor .
Then the runner get a pitcher , and the King 's daughter another , and they begin to run at the same time ; but in a moment , when the King 's daughter be only just a little way off , no spectator could see the runner , and it seem a if the wind have whistle past .
In a short time he reach the stream , fill his pitcher with water , and turn round again .
But , half way home , a great drowsiness come over him ; he put down his pitcher , lay down , and fell asleep .
He have , however , put a horse 's skull which be lie on the ground , for his pillow , so that he should not be too comfortable and might soon wake up .
In the meantime the King 's daughter , who could also run well , as well a an ordinary man could , reach the stream , and hasten back with her pitcher full of water .
When she saw the runner lie there asleep , she be delight , and say , ` My enemy be give into my hand ! '
She empty his pitcher and ran on .
Everything now would have be lose , if by good luck the hunter have not be stand on the castle tower and have see everything with his sharp eye .
` Ah , ' say he , ` the King 's daughter shall not overreach u ; ' and , load his gun , he shoot so cleverly , that he shoot away the horse 's skull from under the runner 's head , without it hurt him .
Then the runner awake , jump up , and saw that his pitcher be empty and the King 's daughter far ahead .
But he do not lose courage , and run back to the stream with his pitcher , fill it once more with water , and be home ten minute before the King 's daughter arrive .
` Look , ' say he , ' I have only just exercise my leg ; that be nothing of a run . '
But the King be angry , and his daughter even more so , that she should be carry away by a common , discharged soldier .
They consult together how they could destroy both him and his companion .
` Then , ' say the King to her , ' I have find a way .
Do n't be frighten ; they shall not come home again . '
He say to them , ` You must now make merry together , and eat and drink , ' and he lead them into a room which have a floor of iron ; the door be also of iron , and the window be bar with iron .
In the room be a table spread with delicious food .
The King say to them , ` Go in and enjoy yourselves , ' and as soon a they be inside he have the door shut and bolt .
Then he make the cook come , and order him to keep up a large fire under the room until the iron be red-hot .
The cook do so , and the Six sit round the table felt it grow very warm , and they think this be because of their good fare ; but when the heat become still great and they want to go out , but find the door and window fasten , then they know that the King mean them harm and be try to suffocate them .
` But he shall not succeed , ' cry he of the little hat , ' I will make a frost come which shall make the fire ashamed and die out ! '
So he put his hat on straight , and at once there come such a frost that all the heat disappear and the food on the dish begin to freeze .
When a couple of hour have pass , and the King thought they must be quite dead from the heat , he have the door open and go in himself to see .
But when the door be open , there stand all Six , alive and well , say they be glad they could come out to warm themselves , for the great cold in the room have freeze all the food hard in the dish .
Then the King go angrily to the cook , and scold him , and ask him why he have not do what he be tell .
But the cook answer , ` There be heat enough there ; see for yourself . '
Then the King saw a huge fire burn under the iron room , and understood that he could do no harm to the Six in this way .
The King now begin again to think how he could free himself from his unwelcome guest .
He command the master to come before him , and say , ` If you will take gold , and give up your right to my daughter , you shall have as much a you like . '
` Oh , yes , your Majesty , ' answer he , ` give me as much a my servant can carry , and I will give up your daughter . '
The King be delight , and the man say , ' I will come and fetch it in fourteen day . '
Then he call all the tailor in the kingdom together , and make them sit down for fourteen day sew at a sack .
When it be finish , he make the strong man who have uproot the tree take the sack on his shoulder and go with him to the King .
Then the King say , ` What a powerful fellow that be , carry that bale of linen as large a a house on his shoulder ! '
and he be much frighten , and think ` What a lot of gold he will make away with ! '
Then he have a ton of gold brought , which sixteen of the strong men have to carry ; but the strong man seize it with one hand , put it in the sack , say , ` Why do n't you bring me more ?
That scarcely cover the bottom ! '
Then the King have to send again and again to fetch his treasure , which the strong man shove into the sack , and the sack be only half full .
` Bring more , ' he cry , ` these crumb do n't fill it . '
So seven thousand waggon of the gold of the whole kingdom be drive up ; these the strong man shove into the sack , ox and all . '
I will no longer be particular , ' he say , ` and will take what come , so that the sack shall be full . '
When everything be put in and there be not yet enough , he say , ' I will make an end of this ; it be easy to fasten a sack when it be not full . '
Then he throw it on his back and go with his companion .
Now , when the King saw how a single man be carry away the wealth of the whole country he be very angry , and make his cavalry mount and pursue the Six , and bring back the strong man with the sack .
Two regiment soon overtake them , and call to them , ` You be prisoner !
lay down the sack of gold or you shall be cut down . '
` What do you say ? '
say the blower , ` we be prisoner ?
Before that , you shall dance in the air ! '
And he hold one nostril and blew with the other at the two regiment ; they be separate and blow away in the blue sky over the mountain , one this way , and the other that .
A sergeant-major cried for mercy , say he have nine wound , and be a brave fellow , and do not deserve this disgrace .
So the blower let him off , and he come down without hurt .
Then he say to him , ` Now go home to the King , and say that if he send any more cavalry I will blow them all into the air . '
When the King receive the message , he say , ` Let the fellow go ; they be bewitch . '
Then the Six bring the treasure home , share it among themselves , and live contentedly till the end of their day .
THE WIZARD KING -LRB- 14 -RRB- -LRB- 14 -RRB- From Les fee illustres .
In very ancient time there live a King , whose power lay not only in the vast extent of his dominion , but also in the magic secret of which he be master .
After spend the great part of his early youth in pleasure , he meet a Princess of such remarkable beauty that he at once ask her hand in marriage , and , have obtain it , consider himself the happy of men .
After a year 's time a son be bear , worthy in every way of such distinguished parent , and much admire by the whole Court .
As soon a the Queen think him strong enough for a journey she set out with him secretly to visit her Fairy godmother .
I say secretly , because the Fairy have warn the Queen that the King be a magician ; and a from time immemorial there have be a stand feud between the Fairies and the Wizards , he might not have approve of his wife 's visit .
The Fairy godmother , who take the deep interest in all the Queen 's concern , and who be much please with the little Prince , endow him with the power of please everybody from his cradle , as well a with a wonderful ease in learn everything which could help to make him a perfectly accomplish Prince .
Accordingly , to the delight of his teacher , he make the most rapid progress in his education , constantly surpass everyone 's expectation .
Before he be many year old , however , he have the great sorrow of lose his mother , whose last word be to advise him never to undertake anything of importance without consult the Fairy under whose protection she have place him .
The Prince 's grief at the death of his mother be great , but it be nothing compare to that of the King , his father , who be quite inconsolable for the loss of his dear wife .
Neither time nor reason seem to lighten his sorrow , and the sight of all the familiar face and thing about him only serve to remind him of his loss .
He therefore resolve to travel for change , and by mean of his magic art be able to visit every country he come to see under different shape , return every few week to the place where he have leave a few follower .
Having travel from land to land in this fashion without find anything to rivet his attention , it occur to him to take the form of an eagle , and in this shape he fly across many country and arrive at length in a new and lovely spot , where the air seem fill with the scent of jessamine and orange flower with which the ground be thickly plant .
Attracted by the sweet perfume he fly low , and perceive some large and beautiful garden fill with the rarest flower , and with fountain throw up their clear water into the air in a hundred different shape .
A wide stream flow through the garden , and on it float richly ornament barge and gondola fill with people dress in the most elegant manner and cover with jewel .
In one of these barge sit the Queen of that country with her only daughter , a maiden more beautiful than the Day Star , and attend by the lady of the Court .
No more exquisitely lovely mortal be ever see than this Princess , and it need all an eagle 's strength of sight to prevent the King be hopelessly dazzle .
He perch on the top of a large orange tree , whence he be able to survey the scene and to gaze at pleasure on the Princess 's charm .
Now , an eagle with a King 's heart in his breast be apt to be bold , and accordingly he instantly make up his mind to carry off the lovely damsel , feel sure that have once see her he could not live without her .
He wait till he saw her in the act of step ashore , when , suddenly swoop down , he carry her off before her equerry in attendance have advance to offer her his hand .
The Princess , on find herself in an eagle 's talon , utter the most heart-breaking shriek and cry ; but her captor , though touch by her distress , would not abandon his lovely prey , and continue to fly through the air too fast to allow of his say anything to comfort her .
At length , when he think they have reach a safe distance , he begin to lower his flight , and gradually descend to earth , deposit his burden in a flowery meadow .
He then entreat her pardon for his violence , and tell her that he be about to carry her to a great kingdom over which he rule , and where he desire she should rule with him , add many tender and console expression .
For some time the Princess remain speechless ; but recover herself a little , she burst into a flood of tear .
The King , much move , say , ` Adorable Princess , dry your tear .
I implore you .
My only wish be to make you the happy person in the world . '
` If you speak truth , my lord , ' reply the Princess , ` restore to me the liberty you have deprive me of .
Otherwise I can only look on you a my bad enemy . '
The King retort that her opposition fill him with despair , but that he hop to carry her to a place where all around would respect her , and where every pleasure would surround her .
So say , he seize her once more , and in spite of all her cry he rapidly bore her off to the neighbourhood of his capital .
Here he gently place her on a lawn , and a he do so she saw a magnificent palace spring up at her foot .
The architecture be impose , and in the interior the room be handsome and furnish in the best possible taste .
The Princess , who expect to be quite alone , be please at find herself surround by a number of pretty girl , all anxious to wait on her , whilst a brilliantly-coloured parrot say the most agreeable thing in the world .
On arrive at this palace the King have resume his own form , and though no longer young , he might well have please any other than this Princess , who have be so prejudice against him by his violence that she could only regard him with feeling of hatred , which she be at no pain to conceal .
The King hop , however , that time might not only soften her anger , but accustom her to his sight .
He take the precaution of surround the palace with a dense cloud , and then hasten to his Court , where his prolonged absence be cause much anxiety .
The Prince and all the courtier be delighted to see their beloved King again , but they have to submit themselves to more frequent absence than ever on his part .
He make business a pretext for shut himself up in his study , but it be really in order to spend the time with the Princess , who remain inflexible .
Not be able to imagine what could be the cause of so much obstinacy the King begin to fear , l , in spite of all his precaution , she might have hear of the charm of the Prince his son , whose goodness , youth and beauty , make him adore at Court .
This idea make him horribly uneasy , and he resolve to remove the cause of his fear by send the Prince on his travel escort by a magnificent retinue .
The Prince , after visit several Courts , arrive at the one where the lost Princess be still deeply mourn .
The King and Queen receive him most graciously , and some festivity be revive to do him honour .
One day when the Prince be visit the Queen in her own apartment he be much strike by a most beautiful portrait .
He eagerly inquire whose it be , and the Queen , with many tear , tell him it be all that be leave her of her beloved daughter , who have suddenly be carry off , she know neither where nor how .
The Prince be deeply move , and vow that he would search the world for the Princess , and take no rest till he have find and restore her to her mother 's arm .
The Queen assure him of her eternal gratitude , and promise , should he succeed , to give him her daughter in marriage , together with all the estate she herself own .
The Prince , far more attracted by the thought of possess the Princess than her promised dower , set forth in his quest after take leave of the King and Queen , the latter give him a miniature of her daughter which she be in the habit of wearing .
His first act be to seek the Fairy under whose protection he have be place , and he implore her to give him all the assistance of her art and counsel in this important matter .
After listen attentively to the whole adventure , the Fairy ask for time to consult her book .
After due consideration she inform the Prince that the object of his search be not far distant , but that it be too difficult for him to attempt to enter the enchanted palace where she be , a the King his father have surround it with a thick cloud , and that the only expedient she could think of would be to gain possession of the Princess 's parrot .
This , she add , do not appear impossible , a it often fly about to some distance in the neighbourhood .
Having tell the Prince all this , the Fairy go out in hope of see the parrot , and soon return with the bird in her hand .
She promptly shut it up in a cage , and , touch the Prince with her wand , transform him into an exactly similar parrot ; after which , she instruct him how to reach the Princess .
The Prince reach the palace in safety , but be so dazzled at first by the Princess 's beauty , which far surpass his expectation , that he be quite dumb for a time .
The Princess be surprise and anxious , and fear the parrot , who be her great comfort , have fall ill , she take him in her hand and caress him .
This soon reassure the Prince , and encourage him to play his part well , and he begin to say a thousand agreeable thing which charm the Princess .
Presently the King appear , and the parrot notice with joy how much he be dislike .
As soon a the King left , the Princess retire to her dressing-room , the parrot fly after her and overheard her lamentation at the continued persecution of the King , who have press her to consent to their marriage .
The parrot say so many clever and tender thing to comfort her that she begin to doubt whether this could indeed be her own parrot .
When he saw her well-disposed towards him , he exclaim : ` Madam , I have a most important secret to confide to you , and I beg you not to be alarm by what I be about to say .
I be here on behalf of the Queen your mother , with the object of deliver your Highness ; to prove which , behold this portrait which she give me herself . '
So say he draw forth the miniature from under his wing .
The Princess 's surprise be great , but after what she have see and hear it be impossible not to indulge in hope , for she have recognise the likeness of herself which her mother always wore .
The parrot , find she be not much alarm , tell her who he be , all that her mother have promise him and the help he have already receive from a Fairy who have assure him that she would give him mean to transport the Princess to her mother 's arm .
When he find her listen attentively to him , he implore the Princess to allow him to resume his natural shape .
She do not speak , so he draw a feather from his wing , and she behold before her a Prince of such surpass beauty that it be impossible not to hope that she might owe her liberty to so charm a person .
Meantime the Fairy have prepare a chariot , to which she harness two powerful eagle ; then place the cage , with the parrot in it , she charge the bird to conduct it to the window of the Princess 's dressing-room .
This be do in a few minute , and the Princess , step into the chariot with the Prince , be delight to find her parrot again .
As they rise through the air the Princess remark a figure mount on an eagle 's back fly in front of the chariot .
She be rather alarmed , but the Prince reassure her , tell her it be the good Fairy to whom she owe so much , and who be now conduct her in safety to her mother .
That same morning the King wake suddenly from a troubled sleep .
He have dreamt that the Princess be be carry off from him , and , transform himself into an eagle , he fly to the palace .
When he fail to find her he fly into a terrible rage , and hasten home to consult his book , by which mean he discover that it be his son who have deprive him of this precious treasure .
Immediately he take the shape of a harpy , and , fill with rage , be determine to devour his son , and even the Princess too , if only he could overtake them .
He set out at full speed ; but he start too late , and be far delay by a strong wind which the Fairy raise behind the young couple so a to baffle any pursuit .
You may imagine the rapture with which the Queen receive the daughter she have give up for lose , as well a the amiable Prince who have rescue her .
The Fairy enter with them , and warn the Queen that the Wizard King would shortly arrive , infuriate by his loss , and that nothing could preserve the Prince and Princess from his rage and magic unless they be actually marry .
The Queen hasten to inform the King her husband , and the wedding take place on the spot .
As the ceremony be complete the Wizard King arrive .
His despair at be so late bewilder him so entirely that he appear in his natural form and attempt to sprinkle some black liquid over the bride and bridegroom , which be intend to kill them , but the Fairy stretch out her wand and the liquid drop on the Magician himself .
He fell down senseless , and the Princess 's father , deeply offend at the cruel revenge which have be attempt , order him to be remove and lock up in prison .
Now a magician lose all their power as soon a they be in prison , the King felt himself much embarrass at be thus at the mercy of those he have so greatly offend .
The Prince implore and obtain his father 's pardon , and the prison door be open .
No sooner be this do than the Wizard King be see in the air under the form of some unknown bird , exclaim a he fly off that he would never forgive either his son or the Fairy the cruel wrong they have do him .
Everyone entreat the Fairy to settle in the kingdom where she now be , to which she consent .
She build herself a magnificent palace , to which she transport her book and fairy secret , and where she enjoy the sight of the perfect happiness she have help to bestow on the entire royal family .
THE NIXY -LRB- 15 -RRB- -LRB- 15 -RRB- From the German .
Kletke .
There be once upon a time a miller who be very well off , and have a much money and a many good a he know what to do with .
But sorrow come in the night , and the miller all of a sudden become so poor that at last he could hardly call the mill in which he sit his own .
He wander about all day full of despair and misery , and when he lay down at night he could get no rest , but lay awake all night sunk in sorrowful thought .
One morning he rise up before dawn and go outside , for he think his heart would be lighter in the open air .
As he wander up and down on the bank of the mill-pond he hear a rustling in the water , and when he look near he saw a white woman rise up from the wave .
He realise at once that this could be none other than the nixy of the mill-pond , and in his terror he do n't know if he should fly away or remain where he be .
While he hesitate the nixy spoke , call him by his name , and ask him why he be so sad .
When the miller hear how friendly her tone be , he pluck up heart and tell her how rich and prosperous he have be all his life up till now , when he do n't know what he be to do for want and misery .
Then the nixy speak comfort word to him , and promise that she would make him rich and more prosperous than he have ever be in his life before , if he would give her in return the young thing in his house .
The miller think she must mean one of his puppy or kitten , so promise the nixy at once what she ask , and return to his mill full of hope .
On the threshold he be greet by a servant with the news that his wife have just give birth to a boy .
The poor miller be much horrify by these tidings , and go in to his wife with a heavy heart to tell her and his relation of the fatal bargain he have just strike with the nixy . '
I would gladly give up all the good fortune she promise me , ' he say , ` if I could only save my child . '
But no one could think of any advice to give him , beyond take care that the child never go near the mill-pond .
So the boy throve and grow big , and in the meantime all prosper with the miller , and in a few year he be rich than he have ever be before .
But all the same he do not enjoy his good fortune , for he could not forget his compact with the nixy , and he know that sooner or later she would demand his fulfilment of it .
But year after year go by , and the boy grow up and become a great hunter , and the lord of the land take him into his service , for he be a smart and bold a hunter a you would wish to see .
In a short time he marry a pretty young wife , and live with her in great peace and happiness .
One day when he be out hunt a hare spring up at his foot , and run for some way in front of him in the open field .
The hunter pursue it hotly for some time , and at last shot it dead .
Then he proceed to skin it , never notice that he be close to the mill-pond , which from childhood up he have be teach to avoid .
He soon finish the skinning , and go to the water to wash the blood off his hand .
He have hardly dip them in the pond when the nixy rise up in the water , and seize him in her wet arm she drag him down with her under the wave .
When the hunter do not come home in the even his wife grow very anxious , and when his game bag be find close to the mill-pond she guess at once what have befall him .
She be nearly beside herself with grief , and roam round and round the pond call on her husband without cease .
At last , wear out with sorrow and fatigue , she fell asleep and dream that she be wander along a flowery meadow , when she come to a hut where she find an old witch , who promise to restore her husband to her .
When she awake next morning she determine to set out and find the witch ; so she wander on for many a day , and at last she reach the flowery meadow and find the hut where the old witch live .
The poor wife tell her all that have happen and how she have be tell in a dream of the witch 's power to help her .
The witch counsel her to go to the pond the first time there be a full moon , and to comb her black hair with a golden comb , and then to place the comb on the bank .
The hunter 's wife give the witch a handsome present , thank her heartily , and return home .
Time drag heavily till the time of the full moon , but it pass at last , and as soon a it rise the young wife go to the pond , comb her black hair with a golden comb , and when she have finish , place the comb on the bank ; then she watch the water impatiently .
Soon she hear a rushing sound , and a big wave rise suddenly and sweep the comb off the bank , and a minute after the head of her husband rise from the pond and gaze sadly at her .
But immediately another wave come , and the head sink back into the water without have say a word .
The pond lay still and motionless , glitter in the moonshine , and the hunter 's wife be not a bit well off than she have be before .
In despair she wander about for day and night , and at last , wear out by fatigue , she sink once more into a deep sleep , and dream exactly the same dream about the old witch .
So next morning she go again to the flowery meadow and seek the witch in her hut , and tell her of her grief .
The old woman counsel her to go to the mill-pond the next full moon and play upon a golden flute , and then to lay the flute on the bank .
As soon a the next moon be full the hunter 's wife go to the mill-pond , play on a golden flute , and when she have finish place it on the bank .
Then a rush sound be hear , and a wave sweep the flute off the bank , and soon the head of the hunter appear and rise up high and high till he be half out of the water .
Then he gaze sadly at his wife and stretch out his arm towards her .
But another rushing wave arose and drag him under once more .
The hunter 's wife , who have stand on the bank full of joy and hope , sink into despair when she saw her husband snatch away again before her eye .
But for her comfort she dream the same dream a third time , and betook herself once more to the old witch 's hut in the flowery meadow .
This time the old woman tell her to go the next full moon to the mill-pond , and to spin there with a golden spinning-wheel , and then to leave the spinning-wheel on the bank .
The hunter 's wife do a she be advise , and the first night the moon be full she sit and spun with a golden spinning-wheel , and then leave the wheel on the bank .
In a few minute a rush sound be hear in the water , and a wave sweep the spinning-wheel from the bank .
Immediately the head of the hunter rise up from the pond , get high and high each moment , till at length he step on to the bank and fell on his wife 's neck .
But the water of the pond rise up suddenly , overflow the bank where the couple stand , and drag them under the flood .
In her despair the young wife call on the old witch to help her , and in a moment the hunter be turn into a frog and his wife into a toad .
But they be not able to remain together , for the water tear them apart , and when the flood be over they both resume their own shape again , but the hunter and the hunter 's wife find themselves each in a strange country , and neither know what have become of the other .
The hunter determine to become a shepherd , and his wife too become a shepherdess .
So they herd their sheep for many year in solitude and sadness .
Now it happen once that the shepherd come to the country where the shepherdess live .
The neighbourhood please him , and he saw that the pasture be rich and suitable for his flock .
So he bring his sheep there , and herd them a before .
The shepherd and shepherdess become great friend , but they do not recognise each other in the least .
But one evening when the moon be full they sit together watch their flock , and the shepherd play upon his flute .
Then the shepherdess thought of that evening when she have sit at the full moon by the mill-pond and have play on the golden flute ; the recollection be too much for her , and she burst into tear .
The shepherd ask her why she be cry , and leave her no peace till she tell him all her story .
Then the scale fell from the shepherd 's eye , and he recognise his wife , and she him .
So they return joyfully to their own home , and live in peace and happiness ever after .
THE GLASS MOUNTAIN -LRB- 16 -RRB- -LRB- 16 -RRB- From the Polish .
Kletke .
Once upon a time there be a Glass Mountain at the top of which stand a castle make of pure gold , and in front of the castle there grow an apple-tree on which there be golden apple .
Anyone who pick an apple gain admittance into the golden castle , and there in a silver room sit an enchanted Princess of surpass fairness and beauty .
She be a rich too a she be beautiful , for the cellar of the castle be full of precious stone , and great chest of the fine gold stand round the wall of all the room .
Many knight have come from afar to try their luck , but it be in vain they attempt to climb the mountain .
In spite of have their horse shoe with sharp nail , no one manage to get more than half-way up , and then they all fell back right down to the bottom of the steep slippery hill .
Sometimes they break an arm , sometimes a leg , and many a brave man have break his neck even .
The beautiful Princess sat at her window and watch the bold knight try to reach her on their splendid horse .
The sight of her always give men fresh courage , and they flock from the four quarter of the globe to attempt the work of rescue her .
But all in vain , and for seven year the Princess have sit now and wait for some one to scale the Glass Mountain .
A heap of corps both of rider and horse lay round the mountain , and many die men lay groan there unable to go any far with their wounded limb .
The whole neighbourhood have the appearance of a vast churchyard .
In three more day the seven year would be at an end , when a knight in golden armour and mount on a spirited steed be see make his way towards the fatal hill .
Sticking his spur into his horse he make a rush at the mountain , and get up half-way , then he calmly turn his horse 's head and come down again without a slip or stumble .
The following day he start in the same way ; the horse trod on the glass a if it have be level earth , and spark of fire flew from it hoof .
All the other knight gaze in astonishment , for he have almost gain the summit , and in another moment he would have reach the apple-tree ; but of a sudden a huge eagle rise up and spread it mighty wing , hit a it do so the knight 's horse in the eye .
The beast shy , open it wide nostril and toss it mane , then rear high up in the air , it hind foot slip and it fell with it rider down the steep mountain side .
Nothing be leave of either of them except their bone , which rattle in the battered golden armour like dry pea in a pod .
And now there be only one more day before the close of the seven year .
Then there arrive on the scene a mere schoolboy -- a merry , happy-hearted youth , but at the same time strong and well-grown .
He saw how many knight have break their neck in vain , but undaunted he approach the steep mountain on foot and begin the ascent .
For long he have hear his parent speak of the beautiful Princess who sit in the golden castle at the top of the Glass Mountain .
He listen to all he hear , and determine that he too would try his luck .
But first he go to the forest and catch a lynx , and cut off the creature 's sharp claw , he fasten them on to his own hand and foot .
Armed with these weapon he boldly start up the Glass Mountain .
The sun be nearly go down , and the youth have not get more than half-way up .
He could hardly draw breath he be so worn out , and his mouth be parch by thirst .
A huge black cloud pass over his head , but in vain do he beg and beseech her to let a drop of water fall on him .
He open his mouth , but the black cloud sail past and not as much a a drop of dew moisten his dry lip .
His foot be torn and bleeding , and he could only hold on now with his hand .
Evening close in , and he strain his eye to see if he could behold the top of the mountain .
Then he gaze beneath him , and what a sight meet his eye !
A yawning abyss , with certain and terrible death at the bottom , reek with half-decayed body of horse and rider !
And this have be the end of all the other brave men who like himself have attempt the ascent .
It be almost pitch dark now , and only the star light up the Glass Mountain .
The poor boy still cling on a if glue to the glass by his blood-stained hand .
He make no struggle to get high , for all his strength have leave him , and see no hope he calmly await death .
Then all of a sudden he fell into a deep sleep , and forgetful of his dangerous position , he slumber sweetly .
But all the same , although he sleep , he have stick his sharp claw so firmly into the glass that he be quite safe not to fall .
Now the golden apple-tree be guard by the eagle which have overthrown the golden knight and his horse .
Every night it fly round the Glass Mountain keep a careful look-out , and no sooner have the moon emerge from the cloud than the bird rise up from the apple-tree , and circle round in the air , catch sight of the sleep youth .
Greedy for carrion , and sure that this must be a fresh corpse , the bird swoop down upon the boy .
But he be awake now , and perceive the eagle , he determine by it help to save himself .
The eagle dig it sharp claw into the tender flesh of the youth , but he bore the pain without a sound , and seize the bird 's two foot with his hand .
The creature in terror lift him high up into the air and begin to circle round the tower of the castle .
The youth hold on bravely .
He saw the glitter palace , which by the pale ray of the moon look like a dim lamp ; and he saw the high window , and round one of them a balcony in which the beautiful Princess sit lose in sad thought .
Then the boy saw that he be close to the apple-tree , and draw a small knife from his belt , he cut off both the eagle 's foot .
The bird rise up in the air in it agony and vanish into the cloud , and the youth fell on to the broad branch of the apple-tree .
Then he draw out the claw of the eagle 's foot that have remain in his flesh , and put the peel of one of the golden apple on the wound , and in one moment it be heal and well again .
He pull several of the beautiful apple and put them in his pocket ; then he enter the castle .
The door be guard by a great dragon , but as soon a he throw an apple at it , the beast vanish .
At the same moment a gate open , and the youth perceive a courtyard full of flower and beautiful tree , and on a balcony sit the lovely enchanted Princess with her retinue .
As soon a she saw the youth , she run towards him and greet him a her husband and master .
She give him all her treasure , and the youth become a rich and mighty ruler .
But he never return to the earth , for only the mighty eagle , who have be the guardian of the Princess and of the castle , could have carry on his wing the enormous treasure down to the world .
But a the eagle have lose it foot it die , and it body be find in a wood on the Glass Mountain .
... .
.
One day when the youth be stroll about in the palace garden with the Princess , his wife , he look down over the edge of the Glass Mountain and saw to his astonishment a great number of people gather there .
He blow his silver whistle , and the swallow who act a messenger in the golden castle fly past .
` Fly down and ask what the matter be , ' he say to the little bird , who speed off like lightning and soon return say : ` The blood of the eagle have restore all the people below to life .
All those who have perish on this mountain be awaken up to-day , a it be from a sleep , and be mount their horse , and the whole population be gaze on this unheard-of wonder with joy and amazement . '
ALPHEGE , OR THE GREEN MONKEY Many year ago there live a King , who be twice marry .
His first wife , a good and beautiful woman , die at the birth of her little son , and the King her husband be so overwhelmed with grief at her loss that his only comfort be in the sight of his heir .
When the time for the young Prince 's christening come the King chose a godmother a neighbouring Princess , so celebrated for her wisdom and goodness that she be commonly call ` the Good Queen . '
She name the baby Alphege , and from that moment take him to her heart .
Time wipe away the great grief , and after two or three year the King marry again .
His second wife be a Princess of undeniable beauty , but by no mean of so amiable a disposition a the first Queen .
In due time a second Prince be bear , and the Queen be devour with rage at the thought that Prince Alphege come between her son and the throne .
She take care however to conceal her jealous feeling from the King .
At length she could control herself no longer , so she send a trusty servant to her old and faithful friend the Fairy of the Mountain , to beg her to devise some mean by which she might get rid of her stepson .
The Fairy reply that , much a she desire to be agreeable to the Queen in every way , it be impossible for her to attempt anything against the young Prince , who be under the protection of some great Power than her own .
The ` Good Queen ' on her side watch carefully over her godson .
She be oblige to do so from a distance , her own country be a remote one , but she be well inform of all that go on and know all about the Queen 's wicked design .
She therefore send the Prince a large and splendid ruby , with injunction to wear it night and day a it would protect him from all attack , but add that the talisman only retain it power as long a the Prince remain within his father 's dominion .
The Wicked Queen know this make every attempt to get the Prince out of the country , but her effort fail , till one day accident do what she be unable to accomplish .
The King have an only sister who be deeply attach to him , and who be marry to the sovereign of a distant country .
She have always keep up a close correspondence with her brother , and the account she hear of Prince Alphege make her long to become acquainted with so charm a nephew .
She entreat the King to allow the Prince to visit her , and after some hesitation which be overrule by his wife , he finally consent .
Prince Alphege be at this time fourteen year old , and the handsome and most engaging youth imaginable .
In his infancy he have be place in the charge of one of the great lady of the Court , who , accord to the prevailing custom , act first a his head nurse and then a his governess .
When he outgrow her care her husband be appoint a his tutor and governor , so that he have never be separate from this excellent couple , who love him as tenderly a they do their only daughter Zayda , and be warmly love by him in return .
When the Prince set forth on his travel it be but natural that this devoted couple should accompany him , and accordingly he start with them and attend by a numerous retinue .
For some time he travel through his father 's dominion and all go well ; but soon after pass the frontier they have to cross a desert plain under a burning sun .
They be glad to take shelter under a group of tree near , and here the Prince complain of burn thirst .
Luckily a tiny stream run close by and some water be soon procured , but no sooner have he taste it than he spring from his carriage and disappear in a moment .
In vain do his anxious follower seek for him , he be nowhere to be find .
As they be hunt and shout through the tree a black monkey suddenly appear on a point of rock and say : ` Poor sorrowing people , you be seek your Prince in vain .
Return to your own country and know that he will not be restore to you till you have for some time fail to recognise him . '
With these word he vanish , leave the courtier sadly perplex ; but a all their effort to find the Prince be useless they have no choice but to go home , bring with them the sad news , which so greatly distress the King that he fell ill and die not long after .
The Queen , whose ambition be boundless , be delight to see the crown on her son 's head and to have the power in her own hand .
Her hard rule make her very unpopular , and it be commonly believe that she have make away with Prince Alphege .
Indeed , have the King her son not be deservedly beloved a revolution would certainly have arise .
Meantime the former governess of the unfortunate Alphege , who have lose her husband soon after the King 's death , retire to her own house with her daughter , who grow up a lovely and most loveable girl , and both continue to mourn the loss of their dear Prince .
The young King be devote to hunting , and often indulge in his favourite pastime , attend by the noble youth in his kingdom .
One day , after a long morning 's chase he stop to rest near a brook in the shade of a little wood , where a splendid tent have be prepare for him .
Whilst at luncheon he suddenly spy a little monkey of the bright green sit on a tree and gaze so tenderly at him that he felt quite move .
He forbid his courtier to frighten it , and the monkey , notice how much attention be be pay him , sprang from bough to bough , and at length gradually approach the King , who offer him some food .
The monkey take it very daintily and finally come to the table .
The King take him on his knee , and , delight with his capture , bring him home with him .
He would trust no one else with it care , and the whole Court soon talk of nothing but the pretty green monkey .
One morning , a Prince Alphege 's governess and her daughter be alone together , the little monkey sprang in through an open window .
He have escape from the palace , and his manner be so gentle and caress that Zayda and her mother soon get over the first fright he have give them .
He have spend some time with them and quite win their heart by his insinuating way , when the King discover where he be and send to fetch him back .
But the monkey make such piteous cry , and seem so unhappy when anyone attempt to catch him , that the two lady beg the King to leave him a little longer with them , to which he consent .
One evening , a they sit by the fountain in the garden , the little monkey keep gaze at Zayda with such sad and loving eye that she and her mother could not think what to make of it , and they be still more surprised when they saw big tear roll down his cheek .
Next day both mother and daughter be sit in a jessamine bower in the garden , and they begin to talk of the green monkey and his strange way .
The mother say , ` My dear child , I can no longer hide my feeling from you .
I can not get the think out of my mind that the green monkey be no other than our beloved Prince Alphege , transform in this strange fashion .
I know the idea sound wild , but I can not get it out of my heart , and it leave me no peace . '
As she speak she glance up , and there sit the little monkey , whose tear and gesture seem to confirm her word .
The following night the elder lady dreamt that she saw the Good Queen , who say , ` Do not weep any long but follow my direction .
Go into your garden and lift up the little marble slab at the foot of the great myrtle tree .
You will find beneath it a crystal vase fill with a bright green liquid .
Take it with you and place the thing which be at present most in your thought into a bath fill with rose and rub it well with the green liquid . '
At these word the sleeper awoke , and lose no time in rise and hurry to the garden , where she find all a the Good Queen have describe .
Then she hasten to rouse her daughter and together they prepare the bath , for they would not let their woman know what they be about .
Zayda gather quantity of rose , and when all be ready they put the monkey into a large jasper bath , where the mother rub him all over with the green liquid .
Their suspense be not long , for suddenly the monkey skin drop off , and there stand Prince Alphege , the handsome and most charming of men .
The joy of such a meeting be beyond word .
After a time the lady beg the Prince to relate his adventure , and he tell them of all his suffering in the desert when he be first transform .
His only comfort have be in visit from the Good Queen , who have at length put him in the way of meet his brother .
Several day be spend in these interesting conversation , but at length Zayda 's mother begin to think of the best mean for place the Prince on the throne , which be his by right .
The Queen on her side be feel very anxious .
She have felt sure from the first that her son 's pet monkey be no other than Prince Alphege , and she long to put an end to him .
Her suspicion be confirm by the Fairy of the Mountain , and she hasten in tear to the King , her son . '
I be inform , ' she cry , ` that some ill-disposed people have raise up an impostor in the hope of dethrone you .
You must at once have him put to death . '
The King , who be very brave , assure the Queen that he would soon punish the conspirator .
He make careful inquiry into the matter , and think it hardly probable that a quiet widow and a young girl would think of attempt anything of the nature of a revolution .
He determine to go and see them , and to find out the truth for himself ; so one night , without say anything to the Queen or his minister , he set out for the palace where the two lady live , attend only by a small band of follower .
The two lady be at the moment deep in conversation with Prince Alphege , and hear a knocking so late at night beg him to keep out of sight for a time .
What be their surprise when the door be open to see the King and his suite . '
I know , ' say the King , ` that you be plot against my crown and person , and I have come to have an explanation with you . '
As she be about to answer Prince Alphege , who have hear all , come forward and say , ` It be from me you must ask an explanation , brother . '
He speak with such grace and dignity that everyone gaze at him with mute surprise .
At length the King , recover from his astonishment at recognise the brother who have be lose some year before , exclaim , ` Yes , you be indeed my brother , and now that I have find you , take the throne to which I have no long a right . '
So say , he respectfully kiss the Prince 's hand .
Alphege throw himself into his arm , and the brother hasten to the royal palace , where in the presence of the entire court he receive the crown from his brother 's hand .
To clear away any possible doubt , he show the ruby which the Good Queen have give him in his childhood .
As they be gaze at it , it suddenly split with a loud noise , and at the same moment the Wicked Queen expire .
King Alphege lose no time in marry his dear and lovely Zayda , and his joy be complete when the Good Queen appear at his wedding .
She assure him that the Fairy of the Mountain have henceforth lose all power over him , and after spend some time with the young couple , and bestow the most costly present on them , she retire to her own country .
King Alphege insist on his brother share his throne , and they all live to a good old age , universally beloved and admire .
FAIRER-THAN-A-FAIRY Once there live a King who have no child for many year after his marriage .
At length heaven grant him a daughter of such remarkable beauty that he could think of no name so appropriate for her a ` Fairer-than-a-Fairy . '
It never occur to the good-natured monarch that such a name be certain to call down the hatred and jealousy of the fairy in a body on the child , but this be what happen .
No sooner have they heard of this presumptuous name than they resolve to gain possession of her who bore it , and either to torment her cruelly , or at least to conceal her from the eye of all men .
The eldest of their tribe be entrust to carry out their revenge .
This Fairy be name Lagree ; she be so old that she only have one eye and one tooth leave , and even these poor remain she have to keep all night in a strengthening liquid .
She be also so spiteful that she gladly devote all her time to carry out all the mean or ill-natured trick of the whole body of fairy .
With her large experience , add to her native spite , she find but little difficulty in carry off Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
The poor child , who be only seven year old , nearly die of fear on find herself in the power of this hideous creature .
However , when after an hour 's journey underground she find herself in a splendid palace with lovely garden , she felt a little reassured , and be far cheer when she discover that her pet cat and dog have follow her .
The old Fairy lead her to a pretty room which she say should be hers , at the same time give her the strict order never to let out the fire which be burn brightly in the grate .
She then give two glass bottle into the Princess 's charge , desire her to take the great care of them , and have enforce her order with the most awful threat in case of disobedience , she vanish , leave the little girl at liberty to explore the palace and ground and a good deal relieve at have only two apparently easy task set her .
Several year pass , during which time the Princess grow accustomed to her lonely life , obey the Fairy 's order , and by degree forgot all about the court of the King her father .
One day , whilst passing near a fountain in the garden , she notice that the sun 's ray fell on the water in such a manner a to produce a brilliant rainbow .
She stand still to admire it , when , to her great surprise , she hear a voice address her which seem to come from the centre of it ray .
The voice be that of a young man , and it sweetness of tone and the agreeable thing it utter , lead one to infer that it owner must be equally charm ; but this have to be a mere matter of fancy , for no one be visible .
The beautiful Rainbow inform Fairer-than-a-Fairy that he be young , the son of a powerful king , and that the Fairy , Lagree , who owe his parent a grudge , have revenge herself by deprive him of his natural shape for some year ; that she have imprison him in the palace , where he have find his confinement hard to bear for some time , but now , he own , he no longer sigh for freedom since he have see and learn to love Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
He add many other tender speech to this declaration , and the Princess , to whom such remark be a new experience , could not help feeling pleased and touch by his attention .
The Prince could only appear or speak under the form of a Rainbow , and it be therefore necessary that the sun should shine on water so a to enable the ray to form themselves .
Fairer-than-a-Fairy lose no moment in which she could meet her lover , and they enjoy many long and interesting interview .
One day , however , their conversation become so absorb and time pass so quickly that the Princess forget to attend to the fire , and it go out .
Lagree , on her return , soon find out the neglect , and seem only too pleased to have the opportunity of show her spite to her lovely prisoner .
She order Fairer-than-a-Fairy to start next day at dawn to ask Locrinos for fire with which to relight the one she have allow to go out .
Now this Locrinos be a cruel monster who devour everyone he come across , and especially enjoy a chance of catch and eat any young girl .
Our heroine obey with great sweetness , and without have be able to take leave of her lover she set off to go to Locrinos a to certain death .
As she be cross a wood a bird sang to her to pick up a shining pebble which she would find in a fountain close by , and to use it when need .
She take the bird 's advice , and in due time arrive at the house of Locrinos .
Luckily she only find his wife at home , who be much strike by the Princess 's youth and beauty and sweet gentle manner , and still far impress by the present of the shin pebble .
She readily let Fairer-than-a-Fairy have the fire , and in return for the stone she give her another , which , she say , might prove useful some day .
Then she send her away without do her any harm .
Lagree be as much surprise a displease at the happy result of this expedition , and Fairer-than-a Fairy wait anxiously for an opportunity of meet Prince Rainbow and tell him her adventure .
She find , however , that he have already be tell all about them by a Fairy who protect him , and to whom he be relate .
The dread of fresh danger to his beloved Princess make him devise some more convenient way of meeting than by the garden fountain , and Fairer-than-a-Fairy carry out his plan daily with entire success .
Every morning she place a large basin full of water on her window-sill , and as soon a the sun 's ray fell on the water the Rainbow appear as clearly a it have ever do in the fountain .
By this mean they be able to meet without lose sight of the fire or of the two bottle in which the old Fairy keep her eye and her tooth at night , and for some time the lover enjoy every hour of sunshine together .
One day Prince Rainbow appear in the depth of woe .
He have just hear that he be to be banish from this lovely spot , but he have no idea where he be to go .
The poor young couple be in despair , and only part with the last ray of sunshine , and in hope of meet next morning .
Alas !
next day be dark and gloomy , and it be only late in the afternoon that the sun break through the cloud for a few minute .
Fairer-than-a-Fairy eagerly ran to the window , but in her haste she upset the basin , and spill all the water with which she have carefully fill it overnight .
No other water be at hand except that in the two bottle .
It be the only chance of see her lover before they be separate , and she do not hesitate to break the bottle and pour their content into the basin , when the Rainbow appear at once .
Their farewell be full of tenderness ; the Prince make the most ardent and sincere protestation , and promise to neglect nothing which might help to deliver his dear Fairer-than-a-Fairy from her captivity , and implore her to consent to their marriage as soon a they should both be free .
The Princess , on her side , vow to have no other husband , and declare herself willing to brave death itself in order to rejoin him .
They be not allow much time for their adieu ; the Rainbow vanish , and the Princess , resolve to run all risk , start off at once , take nothing with her but her dog , her cat , a sprig of myrtle , and the stone which the wife of Locrinos give her .
When Lagree become aware of her prisoner 's flight she be furious , and set off at full speed in pursuit .
She overtake her just a the poor girl , overcome by fatigue , have lie down to rest in a cave which the stone have form itself into to shelter her .
The little dog who be watch her mistress promptly fly at Lagree and bite her so severely that she stumble against a corner of the cave and break off her only tooth .
Before she have recover from the pain and rage this cause her , the Princess have time to escape , and be some way on her road .
Fear give her strength for some time , but at last she could go no far , and sink down to rest .
As she do so , the sprig of myrtle she carry touch the ground , and immediately a green and shady bower spring up round her , in which she hop to sleep in peace .
But Lagree have not give up her pursuit , and arrive just a Fairer-than-a-Fairy have fall fast asleep .
This time she make sure of catch her victim , but the cat spy her out , and , spring from one of the bough of the arbour she fly at Lagree 's face and tore out her only eye , thus deliver the Princess for ever from her persecutor .
One might have think that all would now be well , but no sooner have Lagree be put to fight than our heroine be overwhelm with hunger and thirst .
She felt a though she should certainly expire , and it be with some difficulty that she drag herself as far a a pretty little green and white house , which stand at no great distance .
Here she be receive by a beautiful lady dress in green and white to match the house , which apparently belong to her , and of which she seem the only inhabitant .
She greet the fainting Princess most kindly , give her an excellent supper , and after a long night 's rest in a delightful bed tell her that after many trouble she should finally attain her desire .
As the green and white lady take leave of the Princess she give her a nut , desire her only to open it in the most urgent need .
After a long and tire journey Fairer-than-a-Fairy be once more receive in a house , and by a lady exactly like the one she have quit .
Here again she receive a present with the same injunction , but instead of a nut this lady give her a golden pomegranate .
The mournful Princess have to continue her weary way , and after many trouble and hardship she again find rest and shelter in a third house exactly similar to the two others .
These house belong to three sister , all endow with fairy gift , and all so alike in mind and person that they wish their house and garment to be equally alike .
Their occupation consist in help those in misfortune , and they be a gentle and benevolent a Lagree have be cruel and spiteful .
The third Fairy comfort the poor traveller , beg her not to lose heart , and assure her that her trouble should be reward .
She accompany her advice by the gift of a crystal smelling-bottle , with strict order only to open it in case of urgent need .
Fairer-than-a-Fairy thank her warmly , and resume her way cheer by pleasant thought .
After a time her road lead through a wood , full of soft air and sweet odour , and before she have go a hundred yard she saw a wonderful silver Castle suspend by strong silver chain to four of the large tree .
It be so perfectly hang that a gentle breeze rock it sufficiently to send you pleasantly to sleep .
Fairer-than-a-Fairy felt a strong desire to enter this Castle , but besides be hung a little above the ground there seem to be neither door nor window .
She have no doubt -LRB- though really I can not think why -RRB- that the moment have come in which to use the nut which have be give her .
She open it , and out come a diminutive hall porter at whose belt hang a tiny chain , at the end of which be a golden key half as long a the small pin you ever saw .
The Princess climb up one of the silver chain , hold in her hand the little porter who , in spite of his minute size , open a secret door with his golden key and let her in .
She enter a magnificent room which appear to occupy the entire Castle , and which be light by gold and jewelled star in the ceiling .
In the midst of this room stand a couch , drape with curtain of all the colour of the rainbow , and suspend by golden cord so that it sway with the Castle in a manner which rock it occupant delightfully to sleep .
On this elegant couch lay Prince Rainbow , look more beautiful than ever , and sunk in profound slumber , in which he have be hold ever since his disappearance .
Fairy-than-a-Fairy , who now saw him for the first time in his real shape , hardly dare to gaze at him , fear l his appearance might not be in keep with the voice and language which have win her heart .
At the same time she could not help feel rather hurt at the apparent indifference with which she be receive .
She relate all the danger and difficulty she have go through , and though she repeat the story twenty time in a loud clear voice , the Prince slept on and take no heed .
She then have recourse to the golden pomegranate , and on open it find that all the seed be a many little violin which fly up in the vaulted roof and at once begin play melodiously .
The Prince be not completely rouse , but he open his eye a little and look all the handsomer .
Impatient at not be recognise , Fairer-than-a-Fairy now draw out her third present , and on open the crystal scent-bottle a little syren fly out , who silence the violin and then sing close to the Prince 's ear the story of all his lady love have suffer in her search for him .
She add some gentle reproach to her tale , but before she have get far he be wide awake , and transport with joy throw himself at the Princess 's foot .
At the same moment the wall of the room expand and open out , reveal a golden throne cover with jewel .
A magnificent Court now begin to assemble , and at the same time several elegant carriage fill with lady in magnificent dress drive up .
In the first and most splendid of these carriage sit Prince Rainbow 's mother .
She fondly embrace her son , after which she inform him that his father have be dead for some year , that the anger of the Fairies be at length appease , and that he might return in peace to reign over his people , who be long for his presence .
The Court receive the new King with joyful acclamation which would have delight him at any other time , but all his thought be full of Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
He be just about to present her to his mother and the Court , feel sure that her charm would win all heart , when the three green and white sister appear .
They declare the secret of Fairy-than-a-Fairy 's royal birth , and the Queen take the two lover in her carriage set off with them for the capital of the kingdom .
Here they be receive with tumultuous joy .
The wedding be celebrate without delay , and succeed year diminish neither the virtue , beauty , nor the mutual affection of King Rainbow and his Queen , Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
THE THREE BROTHERS -LRB- 17 -RRB- -LRB- 17 -RRB- From the Polish .
Kletke .
There be once upon a time a witch , who in the shape of a hawk use every night to break the window of a certain village church .
In the same village there live three brother , who be all determine to kill the mischievous hawk .
But in vain do the two eldest mount guard in the church with their gun ; as soon a the bird appear high above their head , sleep overpower them , and they only awake to hear the window crash in .
Then the young brother take his turn of guard the window , and to prevent his be overcome by sleep he place a lot of thorn under his chin , so that if he felt drowsy and nod his head , they would prick him and keep him awake .
The moon be already rise , and it be as light a day , when suddenly he hear a fearful noise , and at the same time a terrible desire to sleep overpowered him .
His eyelid close , and his head sank on his shoulder , but the thorn run into him and be so painful that he awake at once .
He saw the hawk swoop down upon the church , and in a moment he have seize his gun and shot at the bird .
The hawk fell heavily under a big stone , severely wound in it right wing .
The youth run to look at it , and saw that a huge abyss have open below the stone .
He go at once to fetch his brother , and with their help drag a lot of pine-wood and rope to the spot .
They fasten some of the burn pine-wood to the end of the rope , and let it slowly down to the bottom of the abyss .
At first it be quite dark , and the flaming torch only light up dirty grey stone wall .
But the young brother determine to explore the abyss , and let himself down by the rope he soon reach the bottom .
Here he find a lovely meadow full of green tree and exquisite flower .
In the middle of the meadow stand a huge stone castle , with an iron gate lead to it , which be wide open .
Everything in the castle seem to be make of copper , and the only inhabitant he could discover be a lovely girl , who be comb her golden hair ; and he notice that whenever one of her hair fell on the ground it ring out like pure metal .
The youth look at her more closely , and saw that her skin be smooth and fair , her blue eye bright and sparkling , and her hair as golden a the sun .
He fell in love with her on the spot , and kneel at her foot , he implore her to become his wife .
The lovely girl accept his proposal gladly ; but at the same time she warn him that she could never come up to the world above till her mother , the old witch , be dead .
And she go on to tell him that the only way in which the old creature could be kill be with the sword that hang up in the castle ; but the sword be so heavy that no one could lift it .
Then the youth go into a room in the castle where everything be make of silver , and here he find another beautiful girl , the sister of his bride .
She be comb her silver hair , and every hair that fell on the ground ring out like pure metal .
The second girl hand him the sword , but though he try with all his strength he could not lift it .
At last a third sister come to him and give him a drop of something to drink , which she say would give him the needful strength .
He drink one drop , but still he could not lift the sword ; then he drink a second , and the sword begin to move ; but only after he have drunk a third drop be he able to swing the sword over his head .
Then he hide himself in the castle and await the old witch 's arrival .
At last a it be begin to grow dark she appear .
She swoop down upon a big apple-tree , and after shake some golden apple from it , she pounce down upon the earth .
As soon a her foot touch the ground she become transform from a hawk into a woman .
This be the moment the youth be wait for , and he swing his mighty sword in the air with all his strength and the witch 's head fell off , and her blood spurt up on the wall .
Without fear of any further danger , he pack up all the treasure of the castle into great chest , and give his brother a signal to pull them up out of the abyss .
First the treasure be attach to the rope and then the three lovely girl .
And now everything be up above and only he himself remain below .
But a he be a little suspicious of his brother , he fasten a heavy stone on to the rope and let them pull it up .
At first they heave with a will , but when the stone be half way up they let it drop suddenly , and it fell to the bottom broken into a hundred piece .
` So that 's what would have happen to my bone have I trust myself to them , ' say the youth sadly ; and he begin to cry bitterly , not because of the treasure , but because of the lovely girl with her swanlike neck and golden hair .
For a long time he wander sadly all through the beautiful underworld , and one day he meet a magician who ask him the cause of his tear .
The youth tell him all that have befall him , and the magician say : ` Do not grieve , young man !
If you will guard the child who be hide in the golden apple-tree , I will bring you at once up to the earth .
Another magician who live in this land always eat my child up .
It be in vain that I have hide them under the earth and lock them into the castle .
Now I have hide them in the apple-tree ; hide yourself there too , and at midnight you will see my enemy . '
The youth climb up the tree , and pick some of the beautiful golden apple , which he eat for his supper .
At midnight the wind begin to rise , and a rustle sound be hear at the foot of the tree .
The youth look down and behold a long thick serpent begin to crawl up the tree .
It wind itself round the stem and gradually get high and high .
It stretch it huge head , in which the eye glitter fiercely , among the branch , search for the nest in which the little child lay .
They tremble with terror when they saw the hideous creature , and hide themselves beneath the leaf .
Then the youth swing his mighty sword in the air , and with one blow cut off the serpent 's head .
He cut up the rest of the body into little bit and strew them to the four wind .
The father of the rescued child be so delighted over the death of his enemy that he tell the youth to get on his back , and in this way he carry him up to the world above .
With what joy do he hurry now to his brother ' house !
He burst into a room where they be all assemble , but no one knew who he be .
Only his bride , who be serve as cook to her sister , recognise her lover at once .
His brother , who have quite believe he be dead , yield him up his treasure at once , and fly into the wood in terror .
But the good youth forgive them all they have do , and divide his treasure with them .
Then he build himself a big castle with golden window , and there he live happily with his golden-haired wife till the end of their life .
THE BOY AND THE WOLVES , OR THE BROKEN PROMISE -LRB- 18 -RRB- -LRB- 18 -RRB- A North American Indian story .
Once upon a time an Indian hunter build himself a house in the middle of a great forest , far away from all his tribe ; for his heart be gentle and kind , and he be weary of the treachery and cruel deed of those who have be his friend .
So he leave them , and take his wife and three child , and they journey on until they find a spot near to a clear stream , where they begin to cut down tree , and to make ready their wigwam .
For many year they live peacefully and happily in this sheltered place , never leave it except to hunt the wild animal , which serve them both for food and clothes .
At last , however , the strong man felt sick , and before long he know he must die .
So he gather his family round him , and say his last word to them .
` You , my wife , the companion of my day , will follow me ere many moon have wan to the island of the blest .
But for you , O my child , whose life be but newly begin , the wickedness , unkindness , and ingratitude from which I flee be before you .
Yet I shall go hence in peace , my child , if you will promise always to love each other , and never to forsake your young brother .
` Never ! '
they reply , hold out their hand .
And the hunter die content .
Scarcely eight moon have pass when , just a he have say , the wife go forth , and follow her husband ; but before leave her child she bid the two elder one think of their promise never to forsake the young , for he be a child , and weak .
And while the snow lay thick upon the ground , they tend him and cherish him ; but when the earth show green again , the heart of the young man stir within him , and he long to see the wigwam of the village where his father 's youth be spend .
Therefore he open all his heart to his sister , who answer : ` My brother , I understand your longing for our fellow-men , whom here we can not see .
But remember our father 's word .
Shall we not seek our own pleasure , and forget the little one ? '
But he would not listen , and , make no reply , he take his bow and arrow and leave the hut .
The snow fell and melt , yet he never return ; and at last the heart of the girl grow cold and hard , and her little boy become a burden in her eye , till one day she speak thus to him : ` See , there be food for many day to come .
Stay here within the shelter of the hut .
I go to seek our brother , and when I have find him I shall return hither . '
But when , after hard journeying , she reach the village where her brother dwelt , and saw that he have a wife and be happy , and when she , too , be seek by a young brave , then she also forget the boy alone in the forest , and think only of her husband .
Now as soon a the little boy have eat all the food which his sister have leave him , he go out into the wood , and gather berry and dig up root , and while the sun shone he be content and have his fill .
But when the snow begin and the wind howl , then his stomach felt empty and his limb cold , and he hide in tree all the night , and only creep out to eat what the wolf have leave behind .
And by-and-by , have no other friend , he seek their company , and sit by while they devour their prey , and they grow to know him , and give him food .
And without them he would have die in the snow .
But at last the snow melt , and the ice upon the great lake , and a the wolf go down to the shore , the boy go after them .
And it happen one day that his big brother be fish in his canoe near the shore , and he hear the voice of a child singing in the Indian tone -- ` My brother , my brother !
I be become a wolf , I be become a wolf ! '
And when he have so sung he howl a wolf howl .
Then the heart of the elder sunk , and he hasten towards him , cry , ` Brother , little brother , come to me ; ' but he , be half a wolf , only continue his song .
And the louder the elder call him , ` Brother , little brother , come to me , ' the swifter he flee after his brother the wolf , and the heavy grow his skin , till , with a long howl , he vanish into the depth of the forest .
So , with shame and anguish in his soul , the elder brother go back to his village , and , with his sister , mourn the little boy and the broken promise till the end of his life .
THE GLASS AXE -LRB- 19 -RRB- -LRB- 19 -RRB- From the Hungarian .
Kletke .
There be once upon a time a King and Queen who have everything they could possibly wish for in this world except a child .
At last , after twelve year , the Queen give birth to a son ; but she do not live long to enjoy her happiness , for on the following day she die .
But before her death she call her husband to her and say , ` Never let the child put his foot on the ground , for as soon a he do so he will fall into the power of a wicked Fairy , who will do him much harm . '
And these be the last word the poor Queen spoke .
The boy throve and grow big , and when he be too heavy for his nurse to carry , a chair be make for him on little wheel , in which he could wander through the palace garden without help ; at other time he be carry about on a litter , and he be always carefully watch and guard for fear he should at any time put his foot to the ground .
But a this sort of life be bad for his health , the doctor order him horse exercise , and he soon become a first-rate rider , and use to go out for long excursion on horseback , accompany always by his father 's stud-groom and a numerous retinue .
Every day he ride through the neighbouring field and wood , and always return home in the evening safe and well .
In this way many year pass , and the Prince grow to manhood , and hardly anyone remember the Queen 's warning , though precaution be still take , more from use and wont than for any other reason .
One day the Prince and his suite go out for a ride in a wood where his father sometimes hold a hunt .
Their way lead through a stream whose bank be overgrow with thick brushwood .
Just a the horseman be about to ford the river , a hare , startle by the sound of the horse ' hoof , start up from the grass and run towards the thicket .
The young Prince pursue the little creature , and have almost overtake it , when the girth of his saddle suddenly break in two and he fell heavily to the ground .
No sooner have his foot touch the earth than he disappear before the eye of the horrified courtier .
They seek for him far and near , but all in vain , and they be force to recognise the power of the evil Fairy , against which the Queen have warn them on her death-bed .
The old King be much grieve when they bring him the news of his son 's disappearance , but a he could do nothing to free him from his fate , he give himself up to an old age of grief and loneliness , cherish at the same time the hope that some lucky chance might one day deliver the youth out of the hand of his enemy .
Hardly have the Prince touch the ground than he felt himself violently seize by an unseen power , and hurry away he know not whither .
A whole new world stretch out before him , quite unlike the one he have leave .
A splendid castle surround by a huge lake be the abode of the Fairy , and the only approach to it be over a bridge of cloud .
On the other side of the lake high mountain rise up , and dark wood stretch along the bank ; over all hung a thick mist , and deep silence reign everywhere .
No sooner have the Fairy reach her own domain than she make herself visible , and turn to the Prince she tell him that unless he obey all her command down to the minute detail he would be severely punish .
Then she give him an axe make of glass , and bid him cross the bridge of cloud and go into the wood beyond and cut down all the tree there before sunset .
At the same time she caution him with many angry word against speak to a black girl he would most likely meet in the wood .
The Prince listen to her word meekly , and when she have finish take up the glass axe and set out for the forest .
At every step he seem to sink into the cloud , but fear give wing to his foot , and he cross the lake in safety and set to work at once .
But no sooner have he strike the first blow with his axe than it break into a thousand piece against the tree .
The poor youth be so terrified he do not know what to do , for he be in mortal dread of the punishment the wicked old Fairy would inflict on him .
He wander to and fro in the wood , not know where he be go , and at last , wear out by fatigue and misery , he sink on the ground and fell fast asleep .
He do not know how long he have sleep when a sudden sound awake him , and open his eye he saw a black girl stand beside him .
Mindful of the Fairy 's warning he do not dare to address her , but she on her part greet him in the most friendly manner , and ask him at once if he be under the power of the wicked Fairy .
The Prince nod his head silently in answer .
Then the black girl tell him that she too be in the power of the Fairy , who have doom her to wander about in her present guise until some youth should take pity on her and bear her in safety to the other side of the river which they saw in the distance , and on the other side of which the Fairy 's domain and power end .
The girl 's word so inspire the Prince with confidence that he tell her all his tale of woe , and end up by ask her advice a to how he be to escape the punishment the Fairy would be sure to inflict on him when she discover that he have not cut down the tree in the wood and that he have break her axe .
` You must know , ' answer the black girl , ` that the Fairy in whose power we both be be my own mother , but you must not betray this secret , for it would cost me my life .
If you will only promise to try and free me I will stand by you , and will accomplish for you all the task which my mother set you . '
The Prince promise joyfully all she ask ; then have once more warn him not to betray her confidence , she hand him a draught to drink which very soon sink his sens in a deep slumber .
His astonishment be great when he awake to find the glass axe whole and unbroken at his side , and all the tree of the wood lie fell around him !
He make all haste across the bridge of cloud , and tell the Fairy that her command be obey .
She be much amaze when she hear that all the wood be cut down , and saw the axe unbroken in his hand , and since she could not believe that he have do all this by himself , she question him narrowly if he have see or speak to the black girl .
But the Prince lie manfully , and swore he have never look up from his work for a moment .
Seeing she could get nothing more out of him , she give him a little bread and water , and show him to a small dark cupboard she tell him he might sleep there .
Morning have hardly dawn when the Fairy awake the Prince , and give him the glass axe again she tell him to cut up all the wood he have fell the day before , and to put it in bundle ready for firewood ; at the same time she warn him once more against approach or speak a word to the black girl if he meet her in the wood .
Although his task be no easy than that of the day before , the youth set out much more cheerfully , because he know he could count an the help of the black girl .
With quicker and light step he cross the bridge of cloud , and hardly have he reach the other side than his friend stand before him and greet him cheerfully .
When she hear what the Fairy demand this time , she answer smilingly , ` Never fear , ' and hand him another draught , which very soon cause the Prince to sink into a deep sleep .
When he awake everything , be do .
All the tree of the wood be cut up into firewood and arrange in bundle ready for use .
He return to the castle as quickly a he could , and tell the Fairy that her command be obey .
She be even more amazed than she have be before , and ask him again if he have either see or speak to the black girl ; but the Prince know good than to betray his word , and once more lied freely .
On the following day the Fairy set him a third task to do , even hard than the other two .
She tell him he must build a castle on the other side of the lake , make of nothing but gold , silver , and precious stone , and unless he could accomplish this within an hour , the most frightful doom await him .
The Prince hear her word without anxiety , so entirely do he rely on the help of his black friend .
Full of hope he hurry across the bridge , and recognise at once the spot where the castle be to stand , for spade , hammer , ax , and every other building implement lay scatter on the ground ready for the workman 's hand , but of gold , silver , and precious stone there be not a sign .
But before the Prince have time to feel despondent the black girl beckon to him in the distance from behind a rock , where she have hide herself for fear her mother should catch sight of her .
Full of joy the youth hurry towards her , and beg her aid and counsel in the new piece of work he have be give to do .
But this time the Fairy have watch the Prince 's movement from her window , and she saw him hide himself behind the rock with her daughter .
She utter a piercing shriek so that the mountain re-echoed with the sound of it , and the terrified pair have hardly dare to look out from their hiding-place when the enraged woman , with her dress and hair fly in the wind , hurry over the bridge of cloud .
The Prince at once give himself up for lose , but the girl tell him to be of good courage and to follow her as quickly a he could .
But before they leave their shelter she break off a little bit of the rock , speak some magic word over it , and throw it in the direction her mother be come from .
In a moment a glitter palace arise before the eye of the Fairy which blind her with it dazzle splendour , and with it many door and passage prevent her for some time from find her way out of it .
In the meantime the black girl hurry on with the Prince , hasten to reach the river , where once on the other side they would for ever be out of the wicked Fairy 's power .
But before they have accomplish half the way they hear again the rustle of her garment and her muttered curse pursue them closely .
The Prince be terrify ; he dare not look back , and he felt his strength give way .
But before he have time to despair the girl utter some more magic word , and immediately she herself be change into a pond , and the Prince into a duck swim on it surface .
When the Fairy saw this her rage know no bound , and she use all her magic wit to make the pond disappear ; she cause a hill of sand to arise at her foot , mean it to dry up the water at once .
But the sand hill only drive the pond a little farther away , and it water seem to increase instead of diminish .
When the old woman saw that the power of her magic be of so little avail , she have recourse to cunning .
She throw a lot of gold nut into the pond , hop in this way to catch the duck , but all her effort be fruitless , for the little creature refuse to let itself be catch .
Then a new idea strike the wicked old woman , and hide herself behind the rock which have shelter the fugitive , she wait behind it , watch carefully for the moment when the Prince and her daughter should resume their natural form and continue their journey .
She have not to wait long , for as soon a the girl think her mother be safely out of the way , she change herself and the Prince once more into their human shape , and set out cheerfully for the river .
But they have not go many step when the wicked Fairy hurry after them , a drawn dagger in her hand , and be close upon them , when suddenly , instead of the Prince and her daughter , she find herself in front of a great stone church , whose entrance be carefully guard by a huge monk .
Breathless with rage and passion , she try to plunge her dagger into the monk 's heart , but it fell shatter in piece at her foot .
In her desperation she determine to pull down the church , and thus to destroy her two victim for ever .
She stamp three time on the ground , and the earth tremble , and both the church and the monk begin to shake .
As soon a the Fairy saw this she retreat to some distance from the building , so a not to be hurt herself by it fall .
But once more her scheme be doom to failure , for hardly have she go a yard from the church than both it and the monk disappear , and she find herself in a wood black a night , and full of wolf and bear and wild animal of all sort and description .
Then her wrath give place to terror , for she fear every moment to be tear in piece by the beast who one and all seem to defy her power .
She think it wise to make her way a best she could out of the forest , and then to pursue the fugitive once more and accomplish their destruction either by force or cunning .
In the meantime the Prince and the black girl have again assume their natural form , and be hurry on as fast a they could to reach the river .
But when they get there they find that there be no way in which they could cross it , and the girl 's magic art seem no long to have any power .
Then turn to the Prince she say , ` The hour for my deliverance have not yet come , but a you promise to do all you could to free me , you must do exactly a I bid you now .
Take this bow and arrow and kill every beast you see with them , and be sure you spare no living creature . '
With these word she disappear , and hardly have she do so than a huge wild boar start out of the thicket near and make straight for the Prince .
But the youth do not lose his presence of mind , and draw his bow he pierce the beast with his arrow right through the skull .
The creature fell heavily on the ground , and out of it side spring a little hare , which run like the wind along the river bank .
The Prince draw his bow once more , and the hare lay dead at his foot ; but at the same moment a dove rise up in the air , and circle round the Prince 's head in the most confiding manner .
But mindful of the black girl 's command , he dare not spare the little creature 's life , and take another arrow from his quiver he lay it as dead a the boar and the hare .
But when he go to look at the body of the bird he find instead of the dove a round white egg lie on the ground .
While he be gaze on it and wonder what it could mean , he hear the sweeping of wing above him , and look up he saw a huge vulture with open claw swoop down upon him .
In a moment he seize the egg and flung it at the bird with all his might , and lo and behold !
instead of the ugly monster the most beautiful girl he have ever see stood before the astonished eye of the Prince .
But while all this be go on the wicked old Fairy have manage to make her way out of the wood , and be now use the last resource in her power to overtake her daughter and the Prince .
As soon a she be in the open again she mount her chariot , which be draw by a fiery dragon , and fly through the air in it .
But just a she get to the river she saw the two lover in each other 's arm swim through the water as easily a two fish .
Quick a lightning , and forgetful of every danger , she fly down upon them .
But the water seize her chariot and sunk it in the low depth , and the wave bore the wicked old woman down the stream till she be catch in some thorn bush , where she make a good meal for all the little fish that be swim about .
And so at last the Prince and his lovely Bride be free .
They hurry as quickly a they could to the old King , who receive them with joy and gladness .
On the following day a most gorgeous wedding feast be hold , and as far a we know the Prince and his bride live happily for ever afterwards .
THE DEAD WIFE -LRB- 20 -RRB- -LRB- 20 -RRB- From the Iroquois .
Once upon a time there be a man and his wife who live in the forest , very far from the rest of the tribe .
Very often they spend the day in hunt together , but after a while the wife find that she have so many thing to do that she be oblige to stay at home ; so he go alone , though he find that when his wife be not with him he never have any luck .
One day , when he be away hunt , the woman fell ill , and in a few day she die .
Her husband grieve bitterly , and bury her in the house where she have pass her life ; but a the time go on he felt so lonely without her that he make a wooden doll about her height and size for company , and dress it in her clothes .
He seat it in front of the fire , and try to think he have his wife back again .
The next day he go out to hunt , and when he come home the first thing he do be to go up to the doll and brush off some of the ash from the fire which have fall on it face .
But he be very busy now , for he have to cook and mend , besides get food , for there be no one to help him .
And so a whole year pass away .
At the end of that time he come back from hunt one night and find some wood by the door and a fire within .
The next night there be not only wood and fire , but a piece of meat in the kettle , nearly ready for eat .
He search all about to see who could have do this , but could find no one .
The next time he go to hunt he take care not to go far , and come in quite early .
And while he be still a long way off he saw a woman go into the house with wood on her shoulder .
So he make haste , and open the door quickly , and instead of the wooden doll , his wife sit in front of the fire .
Then she speak to him and say , ` The Great Spirit felt sorry for you , because you would not be comfort , so he let me come back to you , but you must not stretch out your hand to touch me till we have see the rest of our people .
If you do , I shall die . '
So the man listen to her word , and the woman dwelt there , and bring the wood and kindle the fire , till one day her husband say to her , ` It be now two year since you die .
Let u now go back to our tribe .
Then you will be well , and I can touch you . '
And with that he prepare food for the journey , a string of deer 's flesh for her to carry , and one for himself ; and so they start .
Now the camp of the tribe be distant six day ' journey , and when they be yet one day 's journey off it begin to snow , and they felt weary and long for rest .
Therefore they make a fire , cook some food , and spread out their skin to sleep .
Then the heart of the man be greatly stir , and he stretch out his arm to his wife , but she wave her hand and say , ` We have see no one yet ; it be too soon . '
But he would not listen to her , and catch her to him , and behold !
he be clasp the wooden doll .
And when he saw it be the doll he push it from him in his misery and rush away to the camp , and tell them all his story .
And some doubt , and they go back with him to the place where he and his wife have stop to rest , and there lay the doll , and besides , they saw in the snow the step of two people , and the foot of one be like the foot of the doll .
And the man grieve sore all the day of his life .
IN THE LAND OF SOULS -LRB- 21 -RRB- -LRB- 21 -RRB- From the Red Indian .
Far away , in North America , where the Red Indians dwell , there live a long time ago a beautiful maiden , who be lovely than any other girl in the whole tribe .
Many of the young brave seek her in marriage , but she would listen to one only -- a handsome chief , who have take her fancy some year before .
So they be to be marry , and great rejoicing be make , and the two look forward to a long life of happiness together , when the very night before the wedding feast a sudden illness seize the girl , and , without a word to her friend who be weep round her , she pass silently away .
The heart of her lover have be set upon her , and the thought of her remain with him night and day .
He put aside his bow , and go neither to fight nor to hunt , but from sunrise to sunset he sit by the place where she be lay , think of his happiness that be bury there .
At last , after many day , a light seem to come to him out of the darkness .
He remember have hear from the old , old people of the tribe , that there be a path that lead to the Land of Souls -- that if you seek carefully you could find it .
So the next morning he get up early , and put some food in his pouch and sling an extra skin over his shoulder , for he know not how long his journey would take , nor what sort of country he would have to go through .
Only one thing he know , that if the path be there , he would find it .
At first he be puzzle , a there seem no reason he should go in one direction more than another .
Then all at once he think he have hear one of the old men say that the Land of Souls lay to the south , and so , fill with new hope and courage , he set his face southward .
For many , many mile the country look the same a it do round his own home .
The forest , the hill , and the river all seem exactly like the one he have leave .
The only thing that be different be the snow , which have lain thick upon the hill and tree when he start , but grow less and less the farther he go south , till it disappear altogether .
Soon the tree put forth their bud , and flower spring up under his foot , and instead of thick cloud there be blue sky over his head , and everywhere the bird be sing .
Then he know that he be in the right road .
The thought that he should soon behold his lose bride make his heart beat for joy , and he speed along lightly and swiftly .
Now his way lead through a dark wood , and then over some steep cliff , and on the top of these he find a hut or wigwam .
An old man clothe in skin , and hold a staff in his hand , stood in the doorway ; and he say to the young chief who be begin to tell his story , ' I be wait for you , wherefore you have come I know .
It be but a short while since she whom you seek be here .
Rest in my hut , a she also rest , and I will tell you what you ask , and whither you should go . '
On hear these word , the young man enter the hut , but his heart be too eager within him to suffer him to rest , and when he arise , the old man rise too , and stand with him at the door .
` Look , ' he say , ` at the water which lie far out yonder , and the plain which stretch beyond .
That be the Land of Souls , but no man enter it without leave his body behind him .
So , lay down your body here ; your bow and arrow , your skin and your dog .
They shall be keep for you safely . '
Then he turn away , and the young chief , light a air , seem hardly to touch the ground ; and a he fly along the scent grow sweeter and the flower more beautiful , while the animal rub their nose against him , instead of hiding a he approach , and bird circle round him , and fish lift up their head and look a he go by .
Very soon he notice with wonder , that neither rock nor tree bar his path .
He pass through them without know it , for indeed , they be not rock and tree at all , but only the soul of them ; for this be the Land of Shadows .
So he go on with winged foot till he come to the shore of a great lake , with a lovely island in the middle of it ; while on the bank of the lake be a canoe of glitter stone , and in the canoe be two shin paddle .
The chief jump straight into the canoe , and seize the paddle push off from the shore , when to his joy and wonder he saw follow him in another canoe exactly like his own the maiden for whose sake he have make this long journey .
But they could not touch each other , for between them roll great wave , which look a if they would sink the boat , yet never do .
And the young man and the maiden shrank with fear , for down in the depth of the water they saw the bone of those who have die before , and in the wave themselves men and woman be struggle , and but few pass over .
Only the child have no fear , and reach the other side in safety .
Still , though the chief and the young girl quail in terror at these horrible sight and sound , no harm come to them , for their life have be free from evil , and the Master of Life have say that no evil should happen unto them .
So they reach unhurt the shore of the Happy Island , and wander through the flowery field and by the bank of rush stream , and they know not hunger nor thirst ; neither cold nor heat .
The air feed them and the sun warm them , and they forget the dead , for they saw no graf , and the young man 's thought turn not to war , neither to the hunting of animal .
And gladly would these two have walk thus for ever , but in the murmur of the wind he hear the Master of Life say to him , ` Return whither you come , for I have work for you to do , and your people need you , and for many year you shall rule over them .
At the gate my messenger await you , and you shall take again your body which you leave behind , and he will show you what you be to do .
Listen to him , and have patience , and in time to come you shall rejoin her whom you must now leave , for she be accept , and will remain ever young and beautiful , a when I call her hence from the Land of Snows . '
THE WHITE DUCK Once upon a time a great and powerful King marry a lovely Princess .
No couple be ever so happy ; but before their honeymoon be over they be force to part , for the King have to go on a warlike expedition to a far country , and leave his young wife alone at home .
Bitter be the tear she shed , while her husband seek in vain to soothe her with word of comfort and counsel , warn her , above all thing , never to leave the castle , to hold no intercourse with stranger , to beware of evil counsellor , and especially to be on her guard against strange woman .
And the Queen promise faithfully to obey her royal lord and master in these four matter .
So when the King set out on his expedition she shut herself up with her lady in her own apartment , and spend her time in spin and weaving , and in thinking of her royal husband .
Often she be very sad and lonely , and it happen that one day while she be seat at the window , let salt tear drop on her work , an old woman , a kind , homely-looking old body , step up to the window , and , lean upon her crutch , address the Queen in friendly , flatter tone , say : ` Why be you sad and cast down , fair Queen ?
You should not mope all day in your room , but should come out into the green garden , and hear the bird sing with joy among the tree , and see the butterfly flutter above the flower , and hear the bee and insect hum , and watch the sunbeams chase the dew-drops through the rose-leaves and in the lily-cups .
All the brightness outside would help to drive away your care , O Queen . '
For long the Queen resist her coaxing word , remember the promise she have give the King , her husband ; but at last she think to herself : After all , what harm would it do if I be to go into the garden for a short time and enjoy myself among the tree and flower , and the singing bird and flutter butterfly and hum insect , and look at the dew-drops hiding from the sunbeam in the heart of the rose and lily , and wander about in the sunshine , instead of remain all day in this room ?
For she have no idea that the kind-looking old woman lean on her crutch be in reality a wicked witch , who envy the Queen her good fortune , and be determine to ruin her .
And so , in all ignorance , the Queen follow her out into the garden and listen to her smooth , flatter word .
Now , in the middle of the garden there be a pond of water , clear a crystal , and the old woman say to the Queen : ` The day be so warm , and the sun 's ray so scorch , that the water in the pond look very cool and inviting .
Would you not like to bathe in it , fair Queen ? '
` No , I think not , ' answer the Queen ; but the next moment she regret her word , and think to herself : Why should n't I bathe in that cool , fresh water ?
No harm could come of it .
And , so say , she slip off her robe and step into the water .
But scarcely have her tender foot touch the cool ripple when she felt a great shove on her shoulder , and the wicked witch have push her into the deep water , exclaim : ` Swim henceforth , White Duck ! '
And the witch herself assume the form of the Queen , and deck herself out in the royal robe , and sit among the Court lady , await the King 's return .
And suddenly the tramp of horse ' hoof be hear , and the barking of dog , and the witch hasten forward to meet the royal carriage , and , throw her arm round the King 's neck , kiss him .
And in his great joy the King do not know that the woman he hold in his arm be not his own dear wife , but a wicked witch .
In the meantime , outside the palace wall , the poor White Duck swim up and down the pond ; and near it lay three egg , out of which there come one morning two little fluffy duckling and a little ugly drake .
And the White Duck bring the little creature up , and they paddle after her in the pond , and catch gold-fish , and hop upon the bank and waddle about , ruffle their feather and say ` Quack , quack ' a they strut about on the green bank of the pond .
But their mother use to warn them not to stray too far , tell them that a wicked witch live in the castle beyond the garden , add , ` She have ruin me , and she will do her best to ruin you . '
But the young one do not listen to their mother , and , play about the garden one day , they stray close up to the castle windows .
The witch at once recognise them by their smell , and ground her teeth with anger ; but she hide her feeling , and , pretend to be very kind she call them to her and joke with them , and lead them into a beautiful room , where she give them food to eat , and show them a soft cushion on which they might sleep .
Then she leave them and go down into the palace kitchens , where she tell the servant to sharpen the knife , and to make a great fire ready , and hang a large kettleful of water over it .
In the meantime the two little duckling have fall asleep , and the little drake lay between them , cover up by their wing , to be keep warm under their feather .
But the little drake could not go to sleep , and a he lay there wide awake in the night he hear the witch come to the door and say : ` Little one , be you asleep ? '
And the little drake answer for the other two : ` We can not sleep , we wake and weep , Sharp be the knife , to take our life ; The fire be hot , now boil the pot , And so we wake , and lie and quake . '
` They be not asleep yet , ' mutter the witch to herself ; and she walk up and down in the passage , and then come back to the door , and say : ` Little one , be you asleep ? '
And again the little drake answer for his sister : ` We can not sleep , we wake and weep , Sharp be the knife , to take our life ; The fire be hot , now boil the pot , And so we wake , and lie and quake . '
` Just the same answer , ' mutter the witch ; ' I think I 'll go in and see . '
So she open the door gently , and see the two little duckling sound asleep , she there and then kill them .
The next morning the White Duck wander round the pond in a distracted manner , look for her little one ; she call and she search , but could find no trace of them .
And in her heart she have a foreboding that evil have befall them , and she flutter up out of the water and fly to the palace .
And there , lay out on the marble floor of the court , dead and stone cold , be her three child .
The White Duck throw herself upon them , and , cover up their little body with her wing , she cry : ` Quack , quack -- my little love !
Quack , quack -- my turtle-doves !
I bring you up with grief and pain , And now before my eye you 're slain .
I give you always of the best ; I keep you warm in my soft nest .
I love and watch you day and night -- You be my joy , my one delight . '
The King hear the sad complaint of the White Duck , and call to the witch : ` Wife , what a wonder be this ?
Listen to that White Duck . '
But the witch answer , ` My dear husband , what do you mean ?
There be nothing wonderful in a duck 's quacking .
Here , servant !
Chase that duck out of the courtyard . '
But though the servant chase and chivy , they could not get rid of the duck ; for she circle round and round , and always come back to the spot where her child lay , cry : ` Quack , quack -- my little love !
Quack , quack -- my turtle-doves !
The wicked witch your life do take -- The wicked witch , the cunning snake .
First she steal my King away , Then my child do she slay .
Changed me , from a happy wife , To a duck for all my life .
Would I be the Queen again ; Would that you have never be slain . '
And a the King hear her word he begin to suspect that he have be deceive , and he call out to the servant , ` Catch that duck , and bring it here . '
But , though they run to and fro , the duck always flee past them , and would not let herself be catch .
So the King himself step down amongst them , and instantly the duck flutter down into his hand .
And a he stroke her wing she be change into a beautiful woman , and he recognise his dear wife .
And she tell him that a bottle would be find in her nest in the garden , contain some drop from the spring of healing .
And it be bring to her ; and the duckling and little drake be sprinkle with the water , and from the little dead body three lovely child arise .
And the King and Queen be overjoy when they saw their child , and they all live happily together in the beautiful palace .
But the wicked witch be take by the King 's command , and she come to no good end .
THE WITCH AND HER SERVANTS -LRB- 22 -RRB- -LRB- 22 -RRB- From the Russian .
Kletke .
Long time ago there live a King who have three son ; the eldest be call Szabo , the second Warza , and the young Iwanich .
One beautiful spring morning the King be walk through his garden with these three son , gaze with admiration at the various fruit-trees , some of which be a mass of blossom , whilst others be bow to the ground lade with rich fruit .
During their wandering they come unperceived on a piece of waste land where three splendid tree grow .
The King look on them for a moment , and then , shake his head sadly , he pass on in silence .
The son , who could not understand why he do this , ask him the reason of his dejection , and the King tell them a follow : ` These three tree , which I can not see without sorrow , be plant by me on this spot when I be a youth of twenty .
A celebrated magician , who have give the seed to my father , promise him that they would grow into the three fine tree the world have ever see .
My father do not live to see his word come true ; but on his death-bed he bid me transplant them here , and to look after them with the great care , which I accordingly do .
At last , after the lapse of five long year , I notice some blossom on the branch , and a few day later the most exquisite fruit my eye have ever see . '
I give my head-gardener the strict order to watch the tree carefully , for the magician have warn my father that if one unripe fruit be pluck from the tree , all the rest would become rotten at once .
When it be quite ripe the fruit would become a golden yellow .
` Every day I gaze on the lovely fruit , which become gradually more and more tempting-looking , and it be all I could do not to break the magician 's command .
` One night I dream that the fruit be perfectly ripe ; I eat some of it , and it be more delicious than anything I have ever taste in real life .
As soon a I awake I send for the gardener and ask him if the fruit on the three tree have not ripen in the night to perfection .
` But instead of reply , the gardener throw himself at my foot and swore that he be innocent .
He say that he have watch by the tree all night , but in spite of it , and a if by magic , the beautiful tree have be rob of all their fruit .
` Grieved a I be over the theft , I do not punish the gardener , of whose fidelity I be well assure , but I determine to pluck off all the fruit in the following year before it be ripe , a I have not much belief in the magician 's warning . '
I carry out my intention , and have all the fruit pick off the tree , but when I taste one of the apple it be bitter and unpleasant , and the next morning the rest of the fruit have all rot away .
` After this I have the beautiful fruit of these tree carefully guard by my most faithful servant ; but every year , on this very night , the fruit be pluck and steal by an invisible hand , and next morning not a single apple remain on the tree .
For some time past I have give up even have the tree watch . '
When the King have finish his story , Szabo , his eldest son , say to him : ` Forgive me , father , if I say I think you be mistake .
I be sure there be many men in your kingdom who could protect these tree from the cunning art of a thieving magician ; I myself , who a your eldest son claim the first right to do so , will mount guard over the fruit this very night . '
The King consent , and as soon a even drew on Szabo climb up on to one of the tree , determine to protect the fruit even if it cost him his life .
So he keep watch half the night ; but a little after midnight he be overcome by an irresistible drowsiness , and fell fast asleep .
He do not awake till it be bright daylight , and all the fruit on the tree have vanish .
The following year Warza , the second brother , try his luck , but with the same result .
Then it come to the turn of the third and young son .
Iwanich be not the least discourage by the failure of his elder brother , though they be both much old and strong than he be , and when night come climb up the tree a they have do , The moon have rise , and with her soft light light up the whole neighbourhood , so that the observant Prince could distinguish the small object distinctly .
At midnight a gentle west wind shake the tree , and at the same moment a snow-white swan-like bird sink down gently on his breast .
The Prince hastily seize the bird 's wing in his hand , when , lo !
to his astonishment he find he be hold in his arm not a bird but the most beautiful girl he have ever see .
` You need not fear Militza , ' say the beautiful girl , look at the Prince with friendly eye .
` An evil magician have not rob you of your fruit , but he steal the seed from my mother , and thereby cause her death .
When she be die she bid me take the fruit , which you have no right to possess , from the tree every year as soon a it be ripe .
This I would have do to-night too , if you have not seize me with such force , and so break the spell I be under . '
Iwanich , who have be prepare to meet a terrible magician and not a lovely girl , fell desperately in love with her .
They spend the rest of the night in pleasant conversation , and when Militza wish to go away he beg her not to leave him . '
I would gladly stay with you long , ' say Militza , ` but a wicked witch once cut off a lock of my hair when I be asleep , which have put me in her power , and if morning be still to find me here she would do me some harm , and you , too , perhaps . '
Having say these word , she draw a sparkling diamond ring from her finger , which she hand to the Prince , say : ` Keep this ring in memory of Militza , and think of her sometimes if you never see her again .
But if your love be really true , come and find me in my own kingdom .
I may not show you the way there , but this ring will guide you .
` If you have love and courage enough to undertake this journey , whenever you come to a cross-road always look at this diamond before you settle which way you be go to take .
If it sparkle as brightly a ever go straight on , but if it lustre be dim choose another path . '
Then Militza bent over the Prince and kiss him on his forehead , and before he have time to say a word she vanish through the branch of the tree in a little white cloud .
Morning broke , and the Prince , still full of the wonderful apparition , leave his perch and return to the palace like one in a dream , without even know if the fruit have be take or not ; for his whole mind be absorb by thought of Militza and how he be to find her .
As soon a the head-gardener saw the Prince go towards the palace he run to the tree , and when he saw them lade with ripe fruit he hasten to tell the King the joyful news .
The King be beside himself for joy , and hurry at once to the garden and make the gardener pick him some of the fruit .
He taste it , and find the apple quite as luscious a it have be in his dream .
He go at once to his son Iwanich , and after embrace him tenderly and heap praise on him , he ask him how he have succeed in protect the costly fruit from the power of the magician .
This question place Iwanich in a dilemma .
But a he do not want the real story to be know , he say that about midnight a huge wasp have fly through the branch , and buzz incessantly round him .
He have ward it off with his sword , and at dawn , when he be become quite wear out , the wasp have vanish as suddenly a it have appear .
The King , who never doubt the truth of this tale , bid his son go to rest at once and recover from the fatigue of the night ; but he himself go and order many feast to be hold in honour of the preservation of the wonderful fruit .
The whole capital be in a stir , and everyone share in the King 's joy ; the Prince alone take no part in the festivity .
While the King be at a banquet , Iwanich take some purse of gold , and mount the quick horse in the royal stable , he speed off like the wind without a single soul be any the wiser .
It be only on the next day that they miss him ; the King be very distressed at his disappearance , and send search-parties all over the kingdom to look for him , but in vain ; and after six month they give him up a dead , and in another six month they have forget all about him .
But in the meantime the Prince , with the help of his ring , have have a most successful journey , and no evil have befall him .
At the end of three month he come to the entrance of a huge forest , which look a if it have never be tread by human foot before , and which seem to stretch out indefinitely .
The Prince be about to enter the wood by a little path he have discover , when he hear a voice shout to him : ` Hold , youth !
Whither be you go ? '
Iwanich turn round , and saw a tall , gaunt-looking man , clad in miserable rag , lean on a crooked staff and seat at the foot of an oak tree , which be so much the same colour a himself that it be little wonder the Prince have ride past the tree without notice him .
` Where else should I be go , ' he say , ` than through the wood ? '
` Through the wood ? '
say the old man in amazement .
` It 's easily see that you have hear nothing of this forest , that you rush so blindly to meet your doom .
Well , listen to me before you ride any far ; let me tell you that this wood hide in it depth a countless number of the fierce tiger , hyena , wolf , bear , and snake , and all sort of other monster .
If I be to cut you and your horse up into tiny morsel and throw them to the beast , there would n't be one bit for each hundred of them .
Take my advice , therefore , and if you wish to save your life follow some other path . '
The Prince be rather take aback by the old man 's word , and consider for a minute what he should do ; then look at his ring , and perceive that it sparkle as brightly a ever , he call out : ` If this wood hold even more terrible thing than it do , I can not help myself , for I must go through it . '
Here he spur his horse and rode on ; but the old beggar scream so loudly after him that the Prince turn round and ride back to the oak tree . '
I be really sorry for you , ' say the beggar , ` but if you be quite determine to brave the danger of the forest , let me at least give you a piece of advice which will help you against these monster .
` Take this bagful of bread-crumbs and this live hare .
I will make you a present of them both , a I be anxious to save your life ; but you must leave your horse behind you , for it would stumble over the fall tree or get entangle in the brier and thorn .
When you have go about a hundred yard into the wood the wild beast will surround you .
Then you must instantly seize your bag , and scatter the bread-crumbs among them .
They will rush to eat them up greedily , and when you have scatter the last crumb you must lose no time in throw the hare to them ; as soon a the hare feel itself on the ground it will run away as quickly a possible , and the wild beast will turn to pursue it .
In this way you will be able to get through the wood unhurt . '
Iwanich thank the old man for his counsel , dismount from his horse , and , take the bag and the hare in his arm , he enter the forest .
He have hardly lose sight of his gaunt grey friend when he hear growl and snarl in the thicket close to him , and before he have time to think he find himself surround by the most dreadful-looking creature .
On one side he saw the glitter eye of a cruel tiger , on the other the gleam teeth of a great she-wolf ; here a huge bear growl fiercely , and there a horrible snake coil itself in the grass at his foot .
But Iwanich do not forget the old man 's advice , and quickly put his hand into the bag and take out a many bread-crumbs a he could hold in his hand at a time .
He throw them to the beast , but soon the bag grow light and light , and the Prince begin to feel a little frightened .
And now the last crumb be go , and the hungry beast throng round him , greedy for fresh prey .
Then he seize the hare and throw it to them .
No sooner do the little creature feel itself on the ground than it lay back it ear and fly through the wood like an arrow from a bow , closely pursue by the wild beast , and the Prince be leave alone .
He look at his ring , and when he saw that it sparkle as brightly a ever he go straight on through the forest .
He have n't go very far when he saw a most extraordinary look man come towards him .
He be not more than three foot high , his leg be quite crook , and all his body be cover with prickle like a hedgehog .
Two lion walk with him , fasten to his side by the two end of his long beard .
He stop the Prince and ask him in a harsh voice : ` Are you the man who have just feed my body-guard ? '
Iwanich be so startled that he could hardly reply , but the little man continue : ' I be most grateful to you for your kindness ; what can I give you a a reward ? '
` All I ask , ' reply Iwanich , ` be , that I should be allow to go through this wood in safety . '
` Most certainly , ' answer the little man ; ` and for great security I will give you one of my lion a a protector .
But when you leave this wood and come near a palace which do not belong to my domain , let the lion go , in order that he may not fall into the hand of an enemy and be kill . '
With these word he loosen the lion from his beard and bid the beast guard the youth carefully .
With this new protector Iwanich wander on through the forest , and though he come upon a great many more wolf , hyena , leopard , and other wild beast , they always keep at a respectful distance when they saw what sort of an escort the Prince have with him .
Iwanich hurry through the wood as quickly a his leg would carry him , but , nevertheless , hour after hour go by and not a trace of a green field or a human habitation meet his eye .
At length , towards evening , the mass of tree grow more transparent , and through the interlaced branch a wide plain be visible .
At the exit of the wood the lion stand still , and the Prince take leave of him , have first thank him warmly for his kind protection .
It have become quite dark , and Iwanich be force to wait for daylight before continue his journey .
He make himself a bed of grass and leaf , light a fire of dry branch , and sleep soundly till the next morning .
Then he get up and walk towards a beautiful white palace which he saw gleam in the distance .
In about an hour he reach the building , and open the door he walk in .
After wander through many marble hall , he come to a huge staircase make of porphyry , lead down to a lovely garden .
The Prince burst into a shout of joy when he suddenly perceive Militza in the centre of a group of girl who be weave wreath of flower with which to deck their mistress .
As soon a Militza saw the Prince she run up to him and embrace him tenderly ; and after he have tell her all his adventure , they go into the palace , where a sumptuous meal await them .
Then the Princess call her court together , and introduce Iwanich to them a her future husband .
Preparations be at once make for the wedding , which be hold soon after with great pomp and magnificence .
Three month of great happiness follow , when Militza receive one day an invitation to visit her mother 's sister .
Although the Princess be very unhappy at leave her husband , she do not like to refuse the invitation , and , promise to return in seven day at the late , she take a tender farewell of the Prince , and say : ` Before I go I will hand you over all the key of the castle .
Go everywhere and do anything you like ; only one thing I beg and beseech you , do not open the little iron door in the north tower , which be close with seven lock and seven bolt ; for if you do , we shall both suffer for it . '
Iwanich promise what she ask , and Militza depart , repeat her promise to return in seven day .
When the Prince find himself alone he begin to be torment by pang of curiosity a to what the room in the tower contain .
For two day he resist the temptation to go and look , but on the third he could stand it no longer , and take a torch in his hand he hurry to the tower , and unfasten one lock after the other of the little iron door until it burst open .
What an unexpected sight meet his gaze !
The Prince perceive a small room black with smoke , light up feebly by a fire from which issue long blue flame .
Over the fire hang a huge cauldron full of boil pitch , and fasten into the cauldron by iron chain stand a wretched man scream with agony .
Iwanich be much horrify at the sight before him , and ask the man what terrible crime he have commit to be punish in this dreadful fashion . '
I will tell you everything , ' say the man in the cauldron ; ` but first relieve my torment a little , I implore you . '
` And how can I do that ? '
ask the Prince .
` With a little water , ' reply the man ; ` only sprinkle a few drop over me and I shall feel well . '
The Prince , move by pity , without think what he be do , run to the courtyard of the castle , and fill a jug with water , which he pour over the man in the cauldron .
In a moment a most fearful crash be heard , a if all the pillar of the palace be give way , and the palace itself , with tower and door , window and the cauldron , whirl round the bewildered Prince 's head .
This continue for a few minute , and then everything vanish into thin air , and Iwanich find himself suddenly alone upon a desolate heath cover with rock and stone .
The Prince , who now realise what his heedlessness have do , curse too late his spirit of curiosity .
In his despair he wander on over the heath , never look where he put his foot , and full of sorrowful thought .
At last he saw a light in the distance , which come from a miserable-looking little hut .
The owner of it be none other than the kind-hearted gaunt grey beggar who have give the Prince the bag of bread-crumbs and the hare .
Without recognise Iwanich , he open the door when he knock and give him shelter for the night .
On the following morning the Prince ask his host if he could get him any work to do , a he be quite unknown in the neighbourhood , and have not enough money to take him home .
` My son , ' reply the old man , ` all this country round here be uninhabited ; I myself have to wander to distant village for my living , and even then I do not very often find enough to satisfy my hunger .
But if you would like to take service with the old witch Corva , go straight up the little stream which flow below my hut for about three hour , and you will come to a sand-hill on the left-hand side ; that be where she live . '
Iwanich thank the gaunt grey beggar for his information , and go on his way .
After walk for about three hour the Prince come upon a dreary-looking grey stone wall ; this be the back of the building and do not attract him ; but when he come upon the front of the house he find it even less inviting , for the old witch have surround her dwelling with a fence of spike , on every one of which a man 's skull be stick .
In this horrible enclosure stand a small black house , which have only two grate window , all cover with cobweb , and a battered iron door .
The Prince knock , and a rasp woman 's voice tell him to enter .
Iwanich open the door , and find himself in a smoke-begrimed kitchen , in the presence of a hideous old woman who be warm her skinny hand at a fire .
The Prince offer to become her servant , and the old hag tell him she be badly in want of one , and he seem to be just the person to suit her .
When Iwanich ask what his work , and how much his wage would be , the witch bid him follow her , and lead the way through a narrow damp passage into a vault , which serve a a stable .
Here he perceive two pitch-black horse in a stall .
` You see before you , ' say the old woman , ' a mare and her foal ; you have nothing to do but to lead them out to the field every day , and to see that neither of them run away from you .
If you look after them both for a whole year I will give you anything you like to ask ; but if , on the other hand , you let either of the animal escape you , your last hour be come , and your head shall be stick on the last spike of my fence .
The other spike , a you see , be already adorn , and the skull be all those of different servant I have have who have fail to do what I demand . '
Iwanich , who think he could not be much bad off than he be already , agree to the witch 's proposal .
At daybreak nest morning he drive his horse to the field , and bring them back in the evening without their ever have attempt to break away from him .
The witch stand at her door and receive him kindly , and set a good meal before him .
So it continue for some time , and all go well with the Prince .
Early every morning he lead the horse out to the field , and bring them home safe and sound in the evening .
One day , while he be watch the horse , he come to the bank of a river , and saw a big fish , which through some mischance have be cast on the land , struggle hard to get back into the water .
Iwanich , who felt sorry for the poor creature , seize it in his arm and fling it into the stream .
But no sooner do the fish find itself in the water again , than , to the Prince 's amazement , it swim up to the bank and say : ` My kind benefactor , how can I reward you for your goodness ? ' '
I desire nothing , ' answer the Prince . '
I be quite content to have be able to be of some service to you . '
` You must do me the favour , ' reply the fish , ` to take a scale from my body , and keep it carefully .
If you should ever need my help , throw it into the river , and I will come to your aid at once . '
Iwanich bow , loosen a scale from the body of the grateful beast , put it carefully away , and return home .
A short time after this , when he be go early one morning to the usual grazing place with his horse , he notice a flock of bird assemble together make a great noise and fly wildly backwards and forward .
Full of curiosity , Iwanich hurry up to the spot , and saw that a large number of raven have attack an eagle , and although the eagle be big and powerful and be make a brave fight , it be overpower at last by number , and have to give in .
But the Prince , who be sorry for the poor bird , seize the branch of a tree and hit out at the raven with it ; terrify at this unexpected onslaught they fly away , leave many of their number dead or wound on the battlefield .
As soon a the eagle saw itself free from it tormentor it pluck a feather from it wing , and , hand it to the Prince , say : ` Here , my kind benefactor , take this feather a a proof of my gratitude ; should you ever be in need of my help blow this feather into the air , and I will help you as much a be in my power . '
Iwanich thank the bird , and place the feather beside the scale he drive the horse home .
Another day he have wander far than usual , and come close to a farmyard ; the place please the Prince , and a there be plenty of good grass for the horse he determine to spend the day there .
Just a he be sit down under a tree he hear a cry close to him , and saw a fox which have be catch in a trap place there by the farmer .
In vain do the poor beast try to free itself ; then the good-natured Prince come once more to the rescue , and let the fox out of the trap .
The fox thank him heartily , tore two hair out of his bushy tail , and say : ` Should you ever stand in need of my help throw these two hair into the fire , and in a moment I shall be at your side ready to obey you . '
Iwanich put the fox 's hair with the scale and the feather , and a it be get dark he hasten home with his horse .
In the meantime his service be draw near to an end , and in three more day the year be up , and he would be able to get his reward and leave the witch .
On the first evening of these last three day , when he come home and be eat his supper , he notice the old woman steal into the stable .
The Prince follow her secretly to see what she be go to do .
He crouch down in the doorway and hear the wicked witch tell the horse to wait next morning till Iwanich be asleep , and then to go and hide themselves in the river , and to stay there till she tell them to return ; and if they do n't do a she tell them the old woman threaten to beat them till they bleed .
When Iwanich hear all this he go back to his room , determine that nothing should induce him to fall asleep next day .
On the following morning he lead the mare and foal to the field a usual , but bound a cord round them both which he keep in his hand .
But after a few hour , by the magic art of the old witch , he be overpower by sleep , and the mare and foal escape and do a they have be tell to do .
The Prince do not awake till late in the evening ; and when he do , he find , to his horror , that the horse have disappear .
Filled with despair , he curse the moment when he have enter the service of the cruel witch , and already he saw his head stick up on the sharp spike beside the others .
Then he suddenly remember the fish 's scale , which , with the eagle 's feather and the fox 's hair , he always carry about with him .
He draw the scale from his pocket , and hurry to the river he throw it in .
In a minute the grateful fish swam towards the bank on which Iwanich be stand , and say : ` What do you command , my friend and benefactor ? '
The Prince reply : ' I have to look after a mare and foal , and they have run away from me and have hide themselves in the river ; if you wish to save my life drive them back to the land . '
` Wait a moment , ' answer the fish , ` and I and my friend will soon drive them out of the water . '
With these word the creature disappear into the depth of the stream .
Almost immediately a rush hissing sound be hear in the water , the wave dash against the bank , the foam be toss into the air , and the two horse leap suddenly on to the dry land , tremble and shake with fear .
Iwanich sprang at once on to the mare 's back , seize the foal by it bridle , and hasten home in the high spirit .
When the witch saw the Prince bring the horse home she could hardly conceal her wrath , and as soon a she have place Iwanich 's supper before him she steal away again to the stable .
The Prince follow her , and hear her scold the beast harshly for not have hide themselves good .
She bid them wait next morning till Iwanich be asleep and then to hide themselves in the cloud , and to remain there till she call .
If they do not do a she tell them she would beat them till they bleed .
The next morning , after Iwanich have lead his horse to the field , he fell once more into a magic sleep .
The horse at once ran away and hid themselves in the cloud , which hang down from the mountain in soft billowy mass .
When the Prince awoke and find that both the mare and the foal have disappear , he bethink him at once of the eagle , and take the feather out of his pocket he blow it into the air .
In a moment the bird swoop down beside him and ask : ` What do you wish me to do ? '
` My mare and foal , ' reply the Prince , ` have run away from me , and have hide themselves in the cloud ; if you wish to save my life , restore both animal to me . '
` Wait a minute , ' answer the eagle ; ` with the help of my friend I will soon drive them back to you . '
With these word the bird fly up into the air and disappear among the cloud .
Almost directly Iwanich saw his two horse be drive towards him by a host of eagle of all size .
He catch the mare and foal , and have thank the eagle he drive them cheerfully home again .
The old witch be more disgusted than ever when she saw him appear , and have set his supper before him she steal into the stable , and Iwanich hear her abuse the horse for not have hide themselves well in the cloud .
Then she bid them hide themselves next morning , as soon a Iwanich be asleep , in the King 's hen-house , which stand on a lonely part of the heath , and to remain there till she call .
If they fail to do a she tell them she would certainly beat them this time till they bleed .
On the following morning the Prince drive his horse a usual to the field .
After he have be overpower by sleep , a on the former day , the mare and foal run away and hid themselves in the royal hen house .
When the Prince awoke and find the horse go he determine to appeal to the fox ; so , light a fire , he throw the two hair into it , and in a few moment the fox stand beside him and ask : ` In what way can I serve you ? ' '
I wish to know , ' reply Iwanich , ` where the King 's hen-house be . '
` Hardly an hour 's walk from here , ' answer the fox , and offer to show the Prince the way to it .
While they be walk along the fox ask him what he want to do at the royal hen-house .
The Prince tell him of the misfortune that have befall him , and of the necessity of recover the mare and foal .
` That be no easy matter , ' reply the fox .
` But wait a moment .
I have an idea .
Stand at the door of the hen-house , and wait there for your horse .
In the meantime I will slip in among the hen through a hole in the wall and give them a good chase , so that the noise they make will arouse the royal henwives , and they will come to see what be the matter .
When they see the horse they will at once imagine them to be the cause of the disturbance , and will drive them out .
Then you must lay hand on the mare and foal and catch them .
All turn out exactly a the sly fox have foreseen .
The Prince swung himself on the mare , seize the foal by it bridle , and hurry home .
While he be rid over the heath in the high of spirit the mare suddenly say to her rider : ` You be the first person who have ever succeed in outwit the old witch Corva , and now you may ask what reward you like for your service .
If you promise never to betray me I will give you a piece of advice which you will do well to follow . '
The Prince promise never to betray her confidence , and the mare continue : ` Ask nothing else a a reward than my foal , for it have not it like in the world , and be not to be buy for love or money ; for it can go from one end of the earth to another in a few minute .
Of course the cunning Corva will do her best to dissuade you from take the foal , and will tell you that it be both idle and sickly ; but do not believe her , and stick to your point . '
Iwanich long to possess such an animal , and promise the mare to follow her advice .
This time Corva receive him in the most friendly manner , and set a sumptuous repast before him .
As soon a he have finish she ask him what reward he demand for his year 's service .
` Nothing more nor less , ' reply the Prince , ` than the foal of your mare . '
The witch pretend to be much astonish at his request , and say that he deserve something much well than the foal , for the beast be lazy and nervous , blind in one eye , and , in short , be quite worthless .
But the Prince know what he want , and when the old witch saw that he have make up his mind to have the foal , she say , ' I be oblige to keep my promise and to hand you over the foal ; and a I know who you be and what you want , I will tell you in what way the animal will be useful to you .
The man in the cauldron of boil pitch , whom you set free , be a mighty magician ; through your curiosity and thoughtlessness Militza come into his power , and he have transport her and her castle and belonging into a distant country .
` You be the only person who can kill him ; and in consequence he fear you to such an extent that he have set spy to watch you , and they report your movement to him daily .
` When you have reach him , beware of speak a single word to him , or you will fall into the power of his friend .
Seize him at once by the beard and dash him to the ground . '
Iwanich thank the old witch , mount his foal , put spur to it side , and they fly like lightning through the air .
Already it be grow dark , when Iwanich perceive some figure in the distance ; they soon come up to them , and then the Prince saw that it be the magician and his friend who be drive through the air in a carriage draw by owl .
When the magician find himself face to face with Iwanich , without hope of escape , he turn to him with false friendliness and say : ` Thrice my kind benefactor ! '
But the Prince , without say a word , seize him at once by his beard and dash him to the ground .
At the same moment the foal sprang on the top of the magician and kick and stamp on him with his hoof till he die .
Then Iwanich find himself once more in the palace of his bride , and Militza herself fly into his arm .
From this time forward they live in undisturbed peace and happiness till the end of their life .
THE MAGIC RING Once upon a time there live an old couple who have one son call Martin .
Now when the old man 's time have come , he stretch himself out on his bed and die .
Though all his life long he have toil and moil , he only leave his widow and son two hundred florin .
The old woman determine to put by the money for a rainy day ; but ala !
the rainy day be close at hand , for their meal be all consume , and who be prepare to face starvation with two hundred florin at their disposal ?
So the old woman count out a hundred of her florin , and give them to Martin , tell him to go into the town and lay in a store of meal for a year .
So Martin start off for the town .
When he reach the meat-market he find the whole place in turmoil , and a great noise of angry voice and barking of dog .
Mixing in the crowd , he notice a stag-hound which the butcher have catch and tie to a post , and which be be flog in a merciless manner .
Overcome with pity , Martin speak to the butcher , say : ` Friends , why be you beat the poor dog so cruelly ? '
` We have every right to beat him , ' they reply ; ` he have just devour a newly-killed pig . '
` Leave off beat him , ' say Martin , ` and sell him to me instead . '
` If you choose to buy him , ' answer the butcher derisively ; ` but for such a treasure we wo n't take a penny less than a hundred florin . ' '
A hundred ! '
exclaim Martin .
` Well , so be it , if you will not take less ; ' and , take the money out of his pocket , he hand it over in exchange for the dog , whose name be Schurka .
When Martin get home , his mother meet him with the question : ` Well , what have you buy ? '
` Schurka , the dog , ' reply Martin , point to his new possession .
Whereupon his mother become very angry , and abuse him roundly .
He ought to be ashamed of himself , when there be scarcely a handful of meal in the house , to have spend the money on a useless brute like that .
On the following day she send him back to the town , say , ` Here , take our last hundred florin , and buy provision with them .
I have just empty the last grain of meal out of the chest , and bake a bannock ; but it wo n't last over to-morrow . '
Just a Martin be enter the town he meet a rough-looking peasant who be drag a cat after him by a string which be fasten round the poor beast 's neck .
` Stop , ' cry Martin ; ` where be you drag that poor cat ? ' '
I mean to drown him , ' be the answer .
` What harm have the poor beast do ? '
say Martin .
` It have just kill a goose , ' reply the peasant .
` Do n't drown him , sell him to me instead , ' beg Martin .
` Not for a hundred florin , ' be the answer .
` Surely for a hundred florin you 'll sell it ? '
say Martin .
` See !
here be the money ; ' and , so say , he hand him the hundred florin , which the peasant pocket , and Martin take possession of the cat , which be call Waska .
When he reach his home his mother greet him with the question : ` Well , what have you bring back ? ' '
I have bring this cat , Waska , ' answer Martin .
` And what besides ? ' '
I have no money over to buy anything else with , ' reply Martin .
` You useless ne'er - do-weel ! '
exclaim his mother in a great passion .
` Leave the house at once , and go and beg your bread among stranger ; ' and a Martin do not dare to contradict her , he call Schurka and Waska and start off with them to the near village in search of work .
On the way he meet a rich peasant , who ask him where he be go . '
I want to get work a a day labourer , ' he answer .
` Come along with me , then .
But I must tell you I engage my labourer without wage .
If you serve me faithfully for a year , I promise you it shall be for your advantage . '
So Martin consent , and for a year he work diligently , and serve his master faithfully , not spar himself in any way .
When the day of reckon have come the peasant lead him into a barn , and point to two full sack , say : ` Take whichever of these you choose . '
Martin examine the content of the sack , and see that one be full of silver and the other of sand , he say to himself : ` There must be some trick about this ; I have well take the sand . '
And throw the sack over his shoulder he start out into the world , in search of fresh work .
On and on he walk , and at last he reach a great gloomy wood .
In the middle of the wood he come upon a meadow , where a fire be burn , and in the midst of the fire , surround by flame , be a lovely damsel , more beautiful than anything that Martin have ever see , and when she saw him she call to him : ` Martin , if you would win happiness , save my life .
Extinguish the flame with the sand that you earn in payment of your faithful service . '
` Truly , ' think Martin to himself , ` it would be more sensible to save a fellow-being 's life with this sand than to drag it about on one 's back , see what a weight it be . '
And forthwith he lower the sack from his shoulder and empty it content on the flame , and instantly the fire be extinguish ; but at the same moment lo !
and behold the lovely damsel turn into a Serpent , and , dart upon him , coil itself round his neck , and whisper lovingly in his ear : ` Do not be afraid of me , Martin ; I love you , and will go with you through the world .
But first you must follow me boldly into my Father 's Kingdom , underneath the earth ; and when we get there , remember this -- he will offer you gold and silver , and dazzle gem , but do not touch them .
Ask him , instead , for the ring which he wear on his little finger , for in that ring lie a magic power ; you have only to throw it from one hand to the other , and at once twelve young men will appear , who will do your bidding , no matter how difficult , in a single night . '
So they start on their way , and after much wandering they reach a spot where a great rock rise straight up in the middle of the road .
Instantly the Serpent uncoil itself from his neck , and , a it touch the damp earth , it resume the shape of the lovely damsel .
Pointing to the rock , she show him an opening just big enough for a man to wriggle through .
Passing into it , they enter a long underground passage , which lead out on to a wide field , above which spread a blue sky .
In the middle of the field stand a magnificent castle , build out of porphyry , with a roof of gold and with glittering battlement .
And his beautiful guide tell him that this be the palace in which her father live and reign over his kingdom in the Under-world .
Together they enter the palace , and be receive by the King with great kindness .
Turning to his daughter , he say : ` My child , I have almost give up the hope of ever see you again .
Where have you be all these year ? '
` My father , ' she reply , ' I owe my life to this youth , who save me from a terrible death . '
Upon which the King turn to Martin with a gracious smile , say : ' I will reward your courage by grant you whatever your heart desire .
Take a much gold , silver , and precious stone a you choose . ' '
I thank you , mighty King , for your gracious offer , ' answer Martin , ' ` but I do not covet either gold , silver , or precious stone ; yet if you will grant me a favour , give me , I beg , the ring from off the little finger of your royal hand .
Every time my eye fall on it I shall think of your gracious Majesty , and when I marry I shall present it to my bride . '
So the King take the ring from his finger and give it to Martin , say : ` Take it , good youth ; but with it I make one condition -- you be never to confide to anyone that this be a magic ring .
If you do , you will straightway bring misfortune on yourself . '
Martin take the ring , and , have thank the King , he set out on the same road by which he have come down into the Under-world .
When he have regain the upper air he start for his old home , and have find his mother still live in the old house where he have leave her , they settle down together very happily .
So uneventful be their life that it almost seem a if it would go on in this way always , without let or hindrance .
But one day it suddenly come into his mind that he would like to get married , and , moreover , that he would choose a very grand wife -- a King 's daughter , in short .
But a he do not trust himself a a wooer , he determine to send his old mother on the mission .
` You must go to the King , ' he say to her , ` and demand the hand of his lovely daughter in marriage for me . '
` What be you think of , my son ? '
answer the old woman , aghast at the idea .
` Why can not you marry someone in your own rank ?
That would be far more fitting than to send a poor old woman like me a-wooing to the King 's Court for the hand of a Princess .
Why , it be as much a our head be worth .
Neither my life nor yours would be worth anything if I go on such a fool 's errand . '
` Never fear , little mother , ' answer Martin .
` Trust me ; all will be well .
But see that you do not come back without an answer of some kind . '
And so , obedient to her son 's behest , the old woman hobble off to the palace , and , without be hinder , reach the courtyard , and begin to mount the flight of step lead to the royal presence chamber .
At the head of the landing row of courtier be collect in magnificent attire , who star at the queer old figure , and call to her , and explain to her , with every kind of sign , that it be strictly forbidden to mount those step .
But their stern word and forbid gesture make no impression whatever on the old woman , and she resolutely continue to climb the stair , bent on carry out her son 's order .
Upon this some of the courtier seize her by the arm , and hold her back by sheer force , at which she set up such a yell that the King himself hear it , and step out on to the balcony to see what be the matter .
When he behold the old woman fling her arm wildly about , and hear her scream that she would not leave the place till she have lay her case before the King , he order that she should be bring into his presence .
And forthwith she be conduct into the golden presence chamber , where , lean back amongst cushion of royal purple , the King sat , surround by his counsellor and courtier .
Courtesying low , the old woman stand silent before him .
` Well , my good old dame , what can I do for you ? '
ask the King . '
I have come , ' reply Martin 's mother -- ` and your Majesty must not be angry with me -- I have come a-wooing . '
` Is the woman out of her mind ? '
say the King , with an angry frown .
But Martin 's mother answer boldly : ` If the King will only listen patiently to me , and give me a straightforward answer , he will see that I be not out of my mind .
You , O King , have a lovely daughter to give in marriage .
I have a son -- a wooer -- a clever a youth and as good a son-in-law a you will find in your whole kingdom .
There be nothing that he can not do .
Now tell me , O King , plump and plain , will you give your daughter to my son a wife ? '
The King listen to the end of the old woman 's strange request , but every moment his face grow blacker , and his feature sterner ; till all at once he think to himself , ` Is it worth while that I , the King , should be angry with this poor old fool ? '
And all the courtier and counsellor be amaze when they saw the hard line round his mouth and the frown on his brow grow smooth , and hear the mild but mock tone in which he answer the old woman , say : ` If your son be a wonderfully clever a you say , and if there be nothing in the world that he can not do , let him build a magnificent castle , just opposite my palace window , in four and twenty hour .
The palace must be join together by a bridge of pure crystal .
On each side of the bridge there must be grow tree , have golden and silver apple , and with bird of Paradise among the branch .
At the right of the bridge there must be a church , with five golden cupola ; in this church your son shall be wed to my daughter , and we will keep the wedding festivity in the new castle .
But if he fail to execute this my royal command , then , a a just but mild monarch , I shall give order that you and he be take , and first dip in tar and then in feather , and you shall be execute in the market-place for the entertainment of my courtier . '
And a smile play round the King 's lip a he finish speaking , and his courtier and counsellor shake with laughter when they think of the old woman 's folly , and praise the King 's wise device , and say to each other , ` What a joke it will be when we see the pair of them tar and feather !
The son be just as able to grow a beard on the palm of his hand a to execute such a task in twenty-four hour . '
Now the poor old woman be mortally afraid and , in a trembling voice she ask : ` Is that really your royal will , O King ?
Must I take this order to my poor son ? '
` Yes , old dame ; such be my command .
If your son carry out my order , he shall be reward with my daughter ; but if he fail , away to the tar-barrel and the stake with you both ! '
On her way home the poor old woman shed bitter tear , and when she saw Martin she tell him what the King have say , and sob out : ` Did n't I tell you , my son , that you should marry someone of your own rank ?
It would have be good for u this day if you have .
As I tell you , my go to Court have be as much a our life be worth , and now we will both be tar and feather , and burnt in the public market-place .
It be terrible ! '
and she moan and cry .
` Never fear , little mother , ' answer Martin ; ` trust me , and you will see all will be well .
You may go to sleep with a quiet mind . '
And , step to the front of the hut , Martin throw his ring from the palm of one hand into the other , upon which twelve youth instantly appear , and demand what he want them to do .
Then he tell them the King 's command , and they answer that by next morning all should be accomplish exactly a the King have order .
Next morning when the King awoke , and look out of his window , to his amazement he behold a magnificent castle , just opposite his own palace , and join to it a bridge of pure crystal .
At each side of the bridge tree be grow , from whose branch hang golden and silver apple , among which bird of Paradise perch .
At the right , gleam in the sun , be the five golden cupola of a splendid church , whose bell ring out , a if they would summon people from all corner of the earth to come and behold the wonder .
Now , though the King would much rather have see his future son-in-law tar , feather , and burnt at the stake , he remember his royal oath , and have to make the best of a bad business .
So he take heart of grace , and make Martin a Duke , and give his daughter a rich dowry , and prepare the grand wedding-feast that have ever be see , so that to this day the old people in the country still talk of it .
After the wedding Martin and his royal bride go to dwell in the magnificent new palace , and here Martin live in the great comfort and luxury , such luxury a he have never imagine .
But though he be as happy a the day be long , and as merry a a grig , the King 's daughter fret all day , thinking of the indignity that have be do her in make her marry Martin , the poor widow 's son , instead of a rich young Prince from a foreign country .
So unhappy be she that she spend all her time wonder how she should get rid of her undesirable husband .
And first she determine to learn the secret of his power , and , with flattering , caress word , she try to coax him to tell her how he be so clever that there be nothing in the world that he could not do .
At first he would tell her nothing ; but once , when he be in a yielding mood , she approach him with a win smile on her lovely face , and , speak flatter word to him , she give him a potion to drink , with a sweet , strong taste .
And when he have drunk it Martin 's lip be unsealed , and he tell her that all his power lay in the magic ring that he wear on his finger , and he describe to her how to use it , and , still speak , he fell into a deep sleep .
And when she saw that the potion have work , and that he be sound asleep , the Princess take the magic ring from his finger , and , go into the courtyard , she throw it from the palm of one hand into the other .
On the instant the twelve youth appear , and ask her what she command them to do .
Then she tell them that by the next morning they be to do away with the castle , and the bridge , and the church , and put in their stead the humble hut in which Martin use to live with his mother , and that while he sleep her husband be to be carry to his old lowly room ; and that they be to bear her away to the utmost end of the earth , where an old King live who would make her welcome in his palace , and surround her with the state that befit a royal Princess .
` You shall be obey , ' answer the twelve youth at the same moment .
And lo and behold !
the following morning , when the King awoke and look out of his window he behold to his amazement that the palace , bridge , church , and tree have all vanish , and there be nothing in their place but a bare , miserable-looking hut .
Immediately the King sent for his son-in-law , and command him to explain what have happen .
But Martin look at his royal father-in-law , and answer never a word .
Then the King be very angry , and , call a council together , he charge Martin with have be guilty of witchcraft , and of have deceive the King , and have make away with the Princess ; and he be condemn to imprisonment in a high stone tower , with neither meat nor drink , till he should die of starvation .
Then , in the hour of his dire necessity , his old friend Schurka -LRB- the dog -RRB- and Waska -LRB- the cat -RRB- remember how Martin have once save them from a cruel death ; and they take counsel together a to how they should help him .
And Schurka growl , and be of opinion that he would like to tear everyone in piece ; but Waska purr meditatively , and scratch the back of her ear with a velvet paw , and remain lose in thought .
At the end of a few minute she have make up her mind , and , turn to Schurka , say : ` Let u go together into the town , and the moment we meet a baker you must make a rush between his leg and upset the tray from off his head ; I will lay hold of the roll , and will carry them off to our master . '
No sooner say than do .
Together the two faithful creature trot off into the town , and very soon they meet a baker bear a tray on his head , and look round on all side , while he cry : ` Fresh roll , sweet cake , Fancy bread of every kind .
Come and buy , come and take , Sure you 'll find it to your mind , ' At that moment Schurka make a rush between his leg -- the baker stumble , the tray be upset , the roll fell to the ground , and , while the man angrily pursue Schurka , Waska manage to drag the roll out of sight behind a bush .
And when a moment later Schurka join her , they set off at full tilt to the stone tower where Martin be a prisoner , take the roll with them .
Waska , be very agile , climb up by the outside to the grate window , and call in an anxious voice : ` Are you alive , master ? '
` Scarcely alive -- almost starve to death , ' answer Martin in a weak voice . '
I little think it would come to this , that I should die of hunger . '
` Never fear , dear master .
Schurka and I will look after you , ' say Waska .
And in another moment she have climb down and bring him back a roll , and then another , and another , till she have bring him the whole tray-load .
Upon which she say : ` Dear master , Schurka and I be go off to a distant kingdom at the utmost end of the earth to fetch you back your magic ring .
You must be careful that the roll last till our return . '
And Waska take leave of her beloved master , and set off with Schurka on their journey .
On and on they travel , look always to right and leave for trace of the Princess , follow up every track , make inquiry of every cat and dog they meet , listen to the talk of every wayfarer they pass ; and at last they hear that the kingdom at the utmost end of the earth where the twelve youth have bear the Princess be not very far off .
And at last one day they reach that distant kingdom , and , go at once to the palace , they begin to make friend with all the dog and cat in the place , and to question them about the Princess and the magic ring ; but no one could tell them much about either .
Now one day it chance that Waska have go down to the palace cellar to hunt for mouse and rat , and see an especially fat , well-fed mouse , she pounce upon it , bury her claw in it soft fur , and be just go to gobble it up , when she be stop by the pleading tone of the little creature , say , ` If you will only spare my life I may be of great service to you .
I will do everything in my power for you ; for I be the King of the Mice , and if I perish the whole race will die out . '
` So be it , ' say Waska . '
I will spare your life ; but in return you must do something for me .
In this castle there live a Princess , the wicked wife of my dear master .
She have steal away his magic ring .
You must get it away from her at whatever cost ; do you hear ?
Till you have do this I wo n't take my claw out of your fur . '
` Good ! '
reply the mouse ; ' I will do what you ask . '
And , so say , he summon all the mouse in his kingdom together .
A countless number of mouse , small and big , brown and grey , assemble , and form a circle round their king , who be a prisoner under Waska 's claw .
Turning to them he say : ` Dear and faithful subject , who ever among you will steal the magic ring from the strange Princess will release me from a cruel death ; and I shall honour him above all the other mouse in the kingdom . '
Instantly a tiny mouse step forward and say : ' I often creep about the Princess 's bedroom at night , and I have notice that she have a ring which she treasure a the apple of her eye .
All day she wear it on her finger , and at night she keep it in her mouth .
I will undertake , sire , to steal away the ring for you . '
And the tiny mouse trip away into the bedroom of the Princess , and wait for nightfall ; then , when the Princess have fall asleep , it creep up on to her bed , and gnaw a hole in the pillow , through which it drag one by one little down feather , and throw them under the Princess 's nose .
And the fluff fly into the Princess 's nose , and into her mouth , and start up she sneeze and cough , and the ring fell out of her mouth on to the coverlet .
In a flash the tiny mouse have seize it , and bring it to Waska a a ransom for the King of the Mice .
Thereupon Waska and Schurka start off , and travel night and day till they reach the stone tower where Martin be imprison ; and the cat climb up the window , and call out to him : ` Martin , dear master , be you still alive ? '
` Ah !
Waska , my faithful little cat , be that you ? '
reply a weak voice . '
I be die of hunger .
For three day I have not taste food . '
` Be of good heart , dear master , ' reply Waska ; ` from this day forth you will know nothing but happiness and prosperity .
If this be a moment to trouble you with riddle , I would make you guess what Schurka and I have bring you back .
Only think , we have get you your ring ! '
At these word Martin 's joy know no bound , and he stroke her fondly , and she rub up against him and purr happily , while below Schurka bound in the air , and bark joyfully .
Then Martin take the ring , and throw it from one hand into the other , and instantly the twelve youth appear and ask what they be to do .
` Fetch me first something to eat and drink , as quickly a possible ; and after that bring musicians hither , and let u have music all day long . '
Now when the people in the town and palace heard music come from the tower they be fill with amazement , and come to the King with the news that witchcraft must be go on in Martin 's Tower , for , instead of die of starvation , he be seemingly make merry to the sound of music , and to the clatter of plate , and glass , and knife and fork ; and the music be so enchantingly sweet that all the passers-by stood still to listen to it .
On this the King send at once a messenger to the Starvation Tower , and he be so astonished with what he saw that he remain root to the spot .
Then the King send his chief counsellor , and they too be transfix with wonder .
At last the King come himself , and he likewise be spellbind by the beauty of the music .
Then Martin summon the twelve youth , speak to them , say , ` Build up my castle again , and join it to the King 's Palace with a crystal bridge ; do not forget the tree with the golden and silver apple , and with the bird of Paradise in the branch ; and put back the church with the five cupola , and let the bell ring out , summon the people from the four corner of the kingdom .
And one thing more : bring back my faithless wife , and lead her into the woman 's chamber . '
And it be all do a he command , and , leave the Starvation Tower , he take the King , his father-in-law , by the arm , and lead him into the new palace , where the Princess sit in fear and trembling , await her death .
And Martin speak to the King , say , ` King and royal father , I have suffer much at the hand of your daughter .
What punishment shall be dealt to her ? '
Then the mild King answer : ` Beloved Prince and son-in-law , if you love me , let your anger be turn to grace -- forgive my daughter , and restore her to your heart and favour . '
And Martin 's heart be soften and he forgive his wife , and they live happily together ever after .
And his old mother come and live with him , and he never part with Schurka and Waska ; and I need hardly tell you that he never again let the ring out of his possession .
THE FLOWER QUEEN 'S DAUGHTER -LRB- 23 -RRB- -LRB- 23 -RRB- From the Bukowinaer .
Von Wliolocki .
A young Prince be rid one day through a meadow that stretch for mile in front of him , when he come to a deep open ditch .
He be turn aside to avoid it , when he hear the sound of someone cry in the ditch .
He dismount from his horse , and step along in the direction the sound come from .
To his astonishment he find an old woman , who beg him to help her out of the ditch .
The Prince bend down and lift her out of her living grave , ask her at the same time how she have manage to get there .
` My son , ' answer the old woman , ' I be a very poor woman , and soon after midnight I set out for the neighbouring town in order to sell my egg in the market on the following morning ; but I lose my way in the dark , and fell into this deep ditch , where I might have remain for ever but for your kindness . '
Then the Prince say to her , ` You can hardly walk ; I will put you on my horse and lead you home .
Where do you live ? '
` Over there , at the edge of the forest in the little hut you see in the distance , ' reply the old woman .
The Prince lift her on to his horse , and soon they reach the hut , where the old woman get down , and turn to the Prince say , ` Just wait a moment , and I will give you something . '
And she disappear into her hut , but return very soon and say , ` You be a mighty Prince , but at the same time you have a kind heart , which deserve to be reward .
Would you like to have the most beautiful woman in the world for your wife ? '
` Most certainly I would , ' reply the Prince .
So the old woman continue , ` The most beautiful woman in the whole world be the daughter of the Queen of the Flowers , who have be capture by a dragon .
If you wish to marry her , you must first set her free , and this I will help you to do .
I will give you this little bell : if you ring it once , the King of the Eagles will appear ; if you ring it twice , the King of the Foxes will come to you ; and if you ring it three time , you will see the King of the Fishes by your side .
These will help you if you be in any difficulty .
Now farewell , and heaven prosper your undertaking . '
She hand him the little bell , and there disappear hut and all , a though the earth have swallow her up .
Then it dawn on the Prince that he have be speak to a good fairy , and put the little bell carefully in his pocket , he ride home and tell his father that he mean to set the daughter of the Flower Queen free , and intend set out on the following day into the wide world in search of the maid .
So the next morning the Prince mount his fine horse and leave his home .
He have roam round the world for a whole year , and his horse have die of exhaustion , while he himself have suffer much from want and misery , but still he have come on no trace of her he be in search of .
At last one day he come to a hut , in front of which sit a very old man .
The Prince ask him , ` Do you not know where the Dragon life who keep the daughter of the Flower Queen prisoner ? '
` No , I do not , ' answer the old man .
` But if you go straight along this road for a year , you will reach a hut where my father life , and possibly he may be able to tell you . '
The Prince thank him for his information , and continue his journey for a whole year along the same road , and at the end of it come to the little hut , where he find a very old man .
He ask him the same question , and the old man answer , ` No , I do not know where the Dragon life .
But go straight along this road for another year , and you will come to a hut in which my father life .
I know he can tell you . '
And so the Prince wander on for another year , always on the same road , and at last reach the hut where he find the third old man .
He put the same question to him a he have put to his son and grandson ; but this time the old man answer , ` The Dragon live up there on the mountain , and he have just begin his year of sleep .
For one whole year he be always awake , and the next he sleep .
But if you wish to see the Flower Queen 's daughter go up the second mountain : the Dragon 's old mother live there , and she have a ball every night , to which the Flower Queen 's daughter go regularly . '
So the Prince go up the second mountain , where he find a castle all make of gold with diamond window .
He open the big gate lead into the courtyard , and be just go to walk in , when seven dragon rush on him and ask him what he want ?
The Prince reply , ' I have hear so much of the beauty and kindness of the Dragon 's Mother , and would like to enter her service . '
This flattering speech please the dragon , and the eldest of them say , ` Well , you may come with me , and I will take you to the Mother Dragon . '
They enter the castle and walk through twelve splendid hall , all make of gold and diamond .
In the twelfth room they find the Mother Dragon seat on a diamond throne .
She be the ugly woman under the sun , and , add to it all , she have three head .
Her appearance be a great shock to the Prince , and so be her voice , which be like the croaking of many raven .
She ask him , ` Why have you come here ? '
The Prince answer at once , ' I have hear so much of your beauty and kindness , that I would very much like to enter your service . '
` Very well , ' say the Mother Dragon ; ` but if you wish to enter my service , you must first lead my mare out to the meadow and look after her for three day ; but if you do n't bring her home safely every evening , we will eat you up . '
The Prince undertake the task and lead the mare out to the meadow .
But no sooner have they reach the grass than she vanish .
The Prince seek for her in vain , and at last in despair sit down on a big stone and contemplate his sad fate .
As he sit thus lose in thought , he notice an eagle fly over his head .
Then he suddenly bethink him of his little bell , and take it out of his pocket he ring it once .
In a moment he hear a rustle sound in the air beside him , and the King of the Eagles sank at his foot . '
I know what you want of me , ' the bird say .
` You be look for the Mother Dragon 's mare who be gallop about among the cloud .
I will summon all the eagle of the air together , and order them to catch the mare and bring her to you . '
And with these word the King of the Eagles fly away .
Towards even the Prince hear a mighty rush sound in the air , and when he look up he saw thousand of eagle drive the mare before them .
They sink at his foot on to the ground and give the mare over to him .
Then the Prince ride home to the old Mother Dragon , who be full of wonder when she saw him , and say , ` You have succeed to-day in look after my mare , and a a reward you shall come to my ball to-night . '
She give him at the same time a cloak make of copper , and lead him to a big room where several young he-dragons and she-dragons be dance together .
Here , too , be the Flower Queen 's beautiful daughter .
Her dress be weave out of the most lovely flower in the world , and her complexion be like lily and rose .
As the Prince be dance with her he manage to whisper in her ear , ' I have come to set you free ! '
Then the beautiful girl say to him , ` If you succeed in bring the mare back safely the third day , ask the Mother Dragon to give you a foal of the mare a a reward . '
The ball come to an end at midnight , and early next morning the Prince again lead the Mother Dragon 's mare out into the meadow .
But again she vanish before his eye .
Then he take out his little bell and ring it twice .
In a moment the King of the Foxes stand before him and say : ' I know already what you want , and will summon all the fox of the world together to find the mare who have hide herself in a hill . '
With these word the King of the Foxes disappear , and in the evening many thousand fox bring the mare to the Prince .
Then he ride home to the Mother-Dragon , from whom he receive this time a cloak make of silver , and again she lead him to the ball-room .
The Flower Queen 's daughter be delight to see him safe and sound , and when they be dance together she whisper in his ear : ` If you succeed again to-morrow , wait for me with the foal in the meadow .
After the ball we will fly away together . '
On the third day the Prince lead the mare to the meadow again ; but once more she vanish before his eye .
Then the Prince take out his little bell and ring it three time .
In a moment the King of the Fishes appear , and say to him : ' I know quite well what you want me to do , and I will summon all the fish of the sea together , and tell them to bring you back the mare , who be hide herself in a river . '
Towards even the mare be return to him , and when he lead her home to the Mother Dragon she say to him : ` You be a brave youth , and I will make you my body-servant .
But what shall I give you a a reward to begin with ? '
The Prince beg for a foal of the mare , which the Mother Dragon at once give him , and over and above , a cloak make of gold , for she have fall in love with him because he have praise her beauty .
So in the evening he appear at the ball in his golden cloak ; but before the entertainment be over he slip away , and go straight to the stable , where he mount his foal and ride out into the meadow to wait for the Flower Queen 's daughter .
Towards midnight the beautiful girl appear , and place her in front of him on his horse , the Prince and she fly like the wind till they reach the Flower Queen 's dwelling .
But the dragon have notice their flight , and wake their brother out of his year 's sleep .
He fly into a terrible rage when he hear what have happen , and determine to lay siege to the Flower Queen 's palace ; but the Queen cause a forest of flower as high a the sky to grow up round her dwelling , through which no one could force a way .
When the Flower Queen hear that her daughter want to marry the Prince , she say to him : ' I will give my consent to your marriage gladly , but my daughter can only stay with you in summer .
In winter , when everything be dead and the ground cover with snow , she must come and live with me in my palace underground . '
The Prince consent to this , and lead his beautiful bride home , where the wedding be hold with great pomp and magnificence .
The young couple live happily together till winter come , when the Flower Queen 's daughter depart and go home to her mother .
In summer she return to her husband , and their life of joy and happiness begin again , and last till the approach of winter , when the Flower Queen 's daughter go back again to her mother .
This come and go continued all her life long , and in spite of it they always live happily together .
THE FLYING SHIP -LRB- 24 -RRB- -LRB- 24 -RRB- From the Russian .
Once upon a time there live an old couple who have three son ; the two elder be clever , but the third be a regular dunce .
The clever son be very fond of their mother , give her good clothes , and always speak pleasantly to her ; but the young be always get in her way , and she have no patience with him .
Now , one day it be announce in the village that the King have issue a decree , offer his daughter , the Princess , in marriage to whoever should build a ship that could fly .
Immediately the two elder brother determine to try their luck , and ask their parent ' blessing .
So the old mother smartened up their clothes , and give them a store of provision for their journey , not forget to add a bottle of brandy .
When they have go the poor Simpleton begin to tease his mother to smarten him up and let him start off .
` What would become of a dolt like you ? '
she answer .
` Why , you would be eat up by wolf . '
But the foolish youth keep repeat , ' I will go , I will go , I will go ! '
Seeing that she could do nothing with him , the mother give him a crust of bread and a bottle of water , and take no further heed of him .
So the Simpleton set off on his way .
When he have go a short distance he meet a little old manikin .
They greet one another , and the manikin ask him where he be go . '
I be off to the King 's Court , ' he answer .
` He have promise to give his daughter to whoever can make a fly ship . '
` And can you make such a ship ? '
` Not I. ' ` Then why in the world be you go ? '
` Ca n't tell , ' reply the Simpleton .
` Well , if that be the case , ' say the manikin , ` sit down beside me ; we can rest for a little and have something to eat .
Give me what you have get in your satchel . '
Now , the poor Simpleton be ashamed to show what be in it .
However , he think it best not to make a fuss , so he open the satchel , and could scarcely believe his own eye , for , instead of the hard crust , he saw two beautiful fresh roll and some cold meat .
He share them with the manikin , who lick his lip and say : ` Now , go into that wood , and stop in front of the first tree , bow three time , and then strike the tree with your axe , fall on your knee on the ground , with your face on the earth , and remain there till you be raise up .
You will then find a ship at your side , step into it and fly to the King 's Palace .
If you meet anyone on the way , take him with you . '
The Simpleton thank the manikin very kindly , bid him farewell , and go into the road .
When he get to the first tree he stop in front of it , do everything just a he have be tell , and , kneel on the ground with his face to the earth , fell asleep .
After a little time he be arouse ; he awake and , rub his eye , saw a ready-made ship at his side , and at once get into it .
And the ship rise and rise , and in another minute be fly through the air , when the Simpleton , who be on the look out , cast his eye down to the earth and saw a man beneath him on the road , who be kneel with his ear upon the damp ground .
` Hallo ! '
he call out , ` what be you do down there ? ' '
I be listen to what be go on in the world , ' reply the man .
` Come with me in my ship , ' say the Simpleton .
So the man be only too glad , and get in beside him ; and the ship fly , and fly , and fly through the air , till again from his outlook the Simpleton saw a man on the road below , who be hop on one leg , while his other leg be tie up behind his ear .
So he hail him , call out : ` Hallo !
what be you do , hop on one leg ? ' '
I ca n't help it , ' reply the man . '
I walk so fast that unless I tie up one leg I should be at the end of the earth in a bound . '
` Come with u on my ship , ' he answer ; and the man make no objection , but join them ; and the ship fly on , and on , and on , till suddenly the Simpleton , look down on the road below , behold a man aim with a gun into the distance .
` Hallo ! '
he shout to him , ` what be you aim at ?
As far a eye can see , there be no bird in sight . '
` What would be the good of my take a near shot ? '
reply the man ; ' I can hit beast or bird at a hundred mile ' distance .
That be the kind of shot I enjoy . '
` Come into the ship with u , ' answer the Simpleton ; and the man be only too glad to join them , and he get in ; and the ship fly on , farther and far , till again the Simpleton from his outlook saw a man on the road below , carry on his back a basket full of bread .
And he wave to him , call out : ` Hallo !
where be you go ? '
` To fetch bread for my breakfast . '
` Bread ?
Why , you have get a whole basket-load of it on your back . '
` That 's nothing , ' answer the man ; ' I should finish that in one mouthful . '
` Come along with u in my ship , then . '
And so the glutton join the party , and the ship mount again into the air , and fly up and onward , till the Simpleton from his outlook saw a man walking by the shore of a great lake , and evidently look for something .
` Hallo ! '
he cry to him , ' what be you seek ? '
I want water to drink , I 'm so thirsty , ' reply the man .
` Well , there 's a whole lake in front of you ; why do n't you drink some of that ? '
` Do you call that enough ? '
answer the other .
` Why , I should drink it up in one gulp . '
` Well , come with u in the ship . '
And so the mighty drinker be add to the company ; and the ship fly far , and even farther , till again the Simpleton look out , and this time he saw a man drag a bundle of wood , walk through the forest beneath them .
` Hallo ! '
he shout to him , ` why be you carry wood through a forest ? '
` This be not common wood , ' answer the other .
` What sort of wood be it , then ? '
say the Simpleton .
` If you throw it upon the ground , ' say the man , ` it will be change into an army of soldier . '
` Come into the ship with u , then . '
And so he too join them ; and away the ship fly on , and on , and on , and once more the Simpleton look out , and this time he saw a man carry straw upon his back .
` Hallo !
Where be you carry that straw to ? '
` To the village , ' say the man .
` Do you mean to say there be no straw in the village ? '
` Ah !
but this be quite a peculiar straw .
If you strew it about even in the hot summer the air at once becomes cold , and snow fall , and the people freeze . '
Then the Simpleton ask him also to join them .
At last the ship , with it strange crew , arrive at the King 's Court .
The King be have his dinner , but he at once despatched one of his courtier to find out what the huge , strange new bird could be that have come fly through the air .
The courtier peep into the ship , and , see what it be , instantly go back to the King and tell him that it be a fly ship , and that it be man by a few peasant .
Then the King remember his royal oath ; but he make up his mind that he would never consent to let the Princess marry a poor peasant .
So he think and think , and then say to himself : ' I will give him some impossible task to perform ; that will be the best way of get rid of him . '
And he there and then decide to despatch one of his courtier to the Simpleton , with the command that he be to fetch the King the healing water from the world 's end before he have finish his dinner .
But while the King be still instruct the courtier exactly what he be to say , the first man of the ship 's company , the one with the miraculous power of hearing , have overheard the King 's word , and hastily report them to the poor Simpleton .
` Alas , alas ! '
he cry ; ` what be I to do now ?
It would take me quite a year , possibly my whole life , to find the water . '
` Never fear , ' say his fleet-footed comrade , ' I will fetch what the King want . '
Just then the courtier arrive , bear the King 's command .
` Tell his Majesty , ' say the Simpleton , ` that his order shall be obey ; ` and forthwith the swift runner unbound the foot that be string up behind his ear and start off , and in less than no time have reach the world 's end and draw the healing water from the well .
` Dear me , ' he think to himself , ` that 's rather tiring !
I 'll just rest for a few minute ; it will be some little time yet before the King have get to dessert . '
So he throw himself down on the grass , and , a the sun be very dazzling , he close his eye , and in a few second have fall sound asleep .
In the meantime all the ship 's crew be anxiously await him ; the King 's dinner would soon be finish , and their comrade have not yet return .
So the man with the marvellous quick hearing lay down and , put his ear to the ground , listen .
` That 's a nice sort of fellow ! '
he suddenly exclaim .
` He 's lie on the ground , snore hard ! '
At this the marksman seize his gun , take aim , and fire in the direction of the world 's end , in order to awaken the sluggard .
And a moment later the swift runner reappear , and , step on board the ship , hand the healing water to the Simpleton .
So while the King be still sit at table finish his dinner news be bring to him that his order have be obey to the letter .
What be to be do now ?
The King determine to think of a still more impossible task .
So he tell another courtier to go to the Simpleton with the command that he and his comrade be instantly to eat up twelve ox and twelve ton of bread .
Once more the sharp-eared comrade overheard the King 's word while he be still talk to the courtier , and report them to the Simpleton .
` Alas , alas ! '
he sigh ; ` what in the world shall I do ?
Why , it would take u a year , possibly our whole life , to eat up twelve ox and twelve ton of bread . '
` Never fear , ' say the glutton .
` It will scarcely be enough for me , I 'm so hungry . '
So when the courtier arrive with the royal message he be tell to take back word to the King that his order should be obey .
Then twelve roast ox and twelve ton of bread be bring alongside of the ship , and at one sit the glutton have devour it all . '
I call that a small meal , ' he say . '
I wish they 'd bring me some more . '
Next , the King order that forty cask of wine , contain forty gallon each , be to be drink up on the spot by the Simpleton and his party .
When these word be overheard by the sharp-eared comrade and repeat to the Simpleton , he be in despair .
` Alas , alas ! '
he exclaim ; ` what be to be do ?
It would take u a year , possibly our whole life , to drink so much . '
` Never fear , ' say his thirsty comrade .
` I 'll drink it all up at a gulp , see if I do n't . '
And sure enough , when the forty cask of wine contain forty gallon each be bring alongside of the ship , they disappear down the thirsty comrade 's throat in no time ; and when they be empty he remark : ` Why , I 'm still thirsty .
I should have be glad of two more cask . '
Then the King take counsel with himself and send an order to the Simpleton that he be to have a bath , in a bath-room at the royal palace , and after that the betrothal should take place .
Now the bath-room be build of iron , and the King give order that it be to be heat to such a pitch that it would suffocate the Simpleton .
And so when the poor silly youth enter the room , he discover that the iron wall be red hot .
But , fortunately , his comrade with the straw on his back have enter behind him , and when the door be shut upon them he scatter the straw about , and suddenly the red-hot wall cool down , and it become so very cold that the Simpleton could scarcely bear to take a bath , and all the water in the room froze .
So the Simpleton climb up upon the stove , and , wrap himself up in the bath blanket , lay there the whole night .
And in the morning when they open the door there he lay sound and safe , sing cheerfully to himself .
Now when this strange tale be tell to the King he become quite sad , not know what he should do to get rid of so undesirable a son-in-law , when suddenly a brilliant idea occur to him .
` Tell the rascal to raise me an army , now at this instant ! '
he exclaim to one of his courtier .
` Inform him at once of this , my royal will . '
And to himself he add , ' I think I shall do for him this time . '
As on former occasion , the quick-eared comrade have overheard the King 's command and repeat it to the Simpleton .
` Alas , alas ! '
he groan ; ` now I be quite do for . '
` Not at all , ' reply one of his comrade -LRB- the one who have drag the bundle of wood through the forest -RRB- .
` Have you quite forget me ? '
In the meantime the courtier , who have run all the way from the palace , reach the ship panting and breathless , and deliver the King 's message .
` Good ! '
remark the Simpleton . '
I will raise an army for the King , ' and he draw himself up .
` But if , after that , the King refuse to accept me a his son-in-law , I will wage war against him , and carry the Princess off by force . '
During the night the Simpleton and his comrade go , together into a big field , not forget to take the bundle of wood with them , which the man spread out in all direction -- and in a moment a mighty army stand upon the spot , regiment on regiment of foot and horse soldier ; the bugle sound and the drum beat , the charger neigh , and their rider put their lance in rest , and the soldier present arm .
In the morning when the King awake he be startle by these warlike sound , the bugle and the drum , and the clatter of the horse , and the shout of the soldier .
And , step to the window , he saw the lance gleam in the sunlight and the armour and weapon glitter .
And the proud monarch say to himself , ' I be powerless in comparison with this man . '
So he send him royal robe and costly jewel , and command him to come to the palace to be marry to the Princess .
And his son-in-law put on the royal robe , and he look so grand and stately that it be impossible to recognise the poor Simpleton , so change be he ; and the Princess fell in love with him as soon a ever she saw him .
Never before have so grand a wedding be see , and there be so much food and wine that even the glutton and the thirsty comrade have enough to eat and drink .
THE SNOW-DAUGHTER AND THE FIRE-SON -LRB- 25 -RRB- -LRB- 25 -RRB- From the Bukowinaer Tales and Legends .
Von Wliolocki .
There be once upon a time a man and his wife , and they have no child , which be a great grief to them .
One winter 's day , when the sun be shin brightly , the couple be stand outside their cottage , and the woman be look at all the little icicle which hang from the roof .
She sigh , and turn to her husband say , ' I wish I have a many child a there be icicle hang there . '
` Nothing would please me more either , ' reply her husband .
Then a tiny icicle detach itself from the roof , and drop into the woman 's mouth , who swallow it with a smile , and say , ` Perhaps I shall give birth to a snow child now ! '
Her husband laugh at his wife 's strange idea , and they go back into the house .
But after a short time the woman give birth to a little girl , who be as white a snow and as cold a ice .
If they bring the child anywhere near the fire , it scream loudly till they put it back into some cool place .
The little maid throve wonderfully , and in a few month she could run about and speak .
But she be not altogether easy to bring up , and give her parent much trouble and anxiety , for all summer she insist on spending in the cellar , and in the winter she would sleep outside in the snow , and the colder it be the happy she seem to be .
Her father and mother call her simply ` Our Snow-daughter , ' and this name stick to her all her life .
One day her parent sit by the fire , talk over the extraordinary behaviour of their daughter , who be disport herself in the snowstorm that rag outside .
The woman sigh deeply and say , ' I wish I have give birth to a Fire-son ! '
As she say these word , a spark from the big wood fire fly into the woman 's lap , and she say with a laugh , ` Now perhaps I shall give birth to a Fire-son ! '
The man laugh at his wife 's word , and think it be a good joke .
But he cease to think it a joke when his wife shortly afterwards give birth to a boy , who scream lustily till he be put quite close to the fire , and who nearly yell himself into a fit if the Snow-daughter come anywhere near him .
The Snow-daughter herself avoid him as much a she could , and always creep into a corner a far away from him a possible .
The parent call the boy simply ` Our Fire-son , ' a name which stick to him all his life .
They have a great deal of trouble and worry with him too ; but he thrive and grow very quickly , and before he be a year old he could run about and talk .
He be as red a fire , and a hot to touch , and he always sit on the hearth quite close to the fire , and complain of the cold ; if his sister be in the room he almost creep into the flame , while the girl on her part always complain of the great heat if her brother be anywhere near .
In summer the boy always lay out in the sun , while the girl hid herself in the cellar : so it happen that the brother and sister come very little into contact with each other -- in fact , they carefully avoid it .
Just a the girl grow up into a beautiful woman , her father and mother both die one after the other .
Then the Fire-son , who have grow up in the meantime into a fine , strong young man , say to his sister , ' I be go out into the world , for what be the use of remain on here ? ' '
I shall go with you , ' she answer , ` for , except you , I have no one in the world , and I have a feeling that if we set out together we shall be lucky . '
The Fire-son say , ' I love you with all my heart , but at the same time I always freeze if you be near me , and you nearly die of heat if I approach you !
How shall we travel about together without be odious the one to the other ? '
` Do n't worry about that , ' reply the girl , ` for I 've think it all over , and have settle on a plan which will make u each able to bear with the other !
See , I have have a fur cloak make for each of u , and if we put them on I shall not feel the heat so much nor you the cold . '
So they put on the fur cloak , and set out cheerfully on their way , and for the first time in their life quite happy in each other 's company .
For a long time the Fire-son and the Snow-daughter wander through the world , and when at the beginning of winter they come to a big wood they determine to stay there till spring .
The Fire-son build himself a hut where he always keep up a huge fire , while his sister with very few clothes on stayed outside night and day .
Now it happen one day that the King of the land hold a hunt in this wood , and saw the Snow-daughter wander about in the open air .
He wonder very much who the beautiful girl clad in such garment could be , and he stop and speak to her .
He soon learn that she could not stand heat , and that her brother could not endure cold .
The King be so charm by the Snow-daughter , that he ask her to be his wife .
The girl consent , and the wedding be hold with much state .
The King have a huge house of ice make for his wife underground , so that even in summer it do not melt .
But for his brother-in-law he have a house build with huge oven all round it , that be keep heat all day and night .
The Fire-son be delight , but the perpetual heat in which he live make his body so hot , that it be dangerous to go too close to him .
One day the King give a great feast , and ask his brother-in-law among the other guest .
The Fire-son do not appear till everyone have assemble , and when he do , everyone flee outside to the open air , so intense be the heat he give forth .
Then the King be very angry and say , ` If I have know what a lot of trouble you would have be , I would never have take you into my house . '
Then the Fire-son reply with a laugh , ` Do n't be angry , dear brother !
I love heat and my sister love cold -- come here and let me embrace you , and then I 'll go home at once . '
And before the King have time to reply , the Fire-son seize him in a tight embrace .
The King scream aloud in agony , and when his wife , the Snow-daughter , who have take refuge from her brother in the next room , hurry to him , the King lay dead on the ground burn to a cinder .
When the Snow-daughter saw this she turn on her brother and fly at him .
Then a fight begin , the like of which have never be see on earth .
When the people , attract by the noise , hurry to the spot , they saw the Snow-daughter melting into water and the Fire-son burn to a cinder .
And so end the unhappy brother and sister .
THE STORY OF KING FROST -LRB- 26 -RRB- -LRB- 26 -RRB- From the Russian .
There be once upon a time a peasant-woman who have a daughter and a step-daughter .
The daughter have her own way in everything , and whatever she do be right in her mother 's eye ; but the poor step-daughter have a hard time .
Let her do what she would , she be always blame , and get small thanks for all the trouble she take ; nothing be right , everything wrong ; and yet , if the truth be know , the girl be worth her weight in gold -- she be so unselfish and good-hearted .
But her step-mother do not like her , and the poor girl 's day be spend in weep ; for it be impossible to live peacefully with the woman .
The wicked shrew be determine to get rid of the girl by fair mean or foul , and keep say to her father : ` Send her away , old man ; send her away -- anywhere so that my eye sha 'n ' t be plague any longer by the sight of her , or my ear torment by the sound of her voice .
Send her out into the field , and let the cut frost do for her . '
In vain do the poor old father weep and implore her pity ; she be firm , and he dare not gainsay her .
So he place his daughter in a sledge , not even dare to give her a horse-cloth to keep herself warm with , and drive her out on to the bare , open field , where he kiss her and leave her , drive home as fast a he could , that he might not witness her miserable death .
Deserted by her father , the poor girl sit down under a fir-tree at the edge of the forest and begin to weep silently .
Suddenly she hear a faint sound : it be King Frost spring from tree to tree , and crack his finger a he go .
At length he reach the fir-tree beneath which she be sit , and with a crisp crackle sound he alight beside her , and look at her lovely face .
` Well , maiden , ' he snap out , ` do you know who I be ?
I be King Frost , king of the red-noses . '
` All hail to you , great King ! '
answer the girl , in a gentle , tremble voice .
` Have you come to take me ? '
` Are you warm , maiden ? '
he reply .
` Quite warm , King Frost , ' she answer , though she shiver a she speak .
Then King Frost stoop down , and bent over the girl , and the crackling sound grow loud , and the air seem to be full of knife and dart ; and again he ask : ` Maiden , be you warm ?
Are you warm , you beautiful girl ? '
And though her breath be almost frozen on her lip , she whisper gently , ` Quite warm , King Frost . '
Then King Frost gnash his teeth , and crack his finger , and his eye sparkle , and the crackling , crisp sound be louder than ever , and for the last time he ask her : ` Maiden , be you still warm ?
Are you still warm , little love ? '
And the poor girl be so stiff and numb that she could just gasp , ` Still warm , O King ! '
Now her gentle , courteous word and her uncomplaining way touch King Frost , and he have pity on her , and he wrap her up in fur , and cover her with blanket , and he fetch a great box , in which be beautiful jewel and a rich robe embroider in gold and silver .
And she put it on , and look more lovely than ever , and King Frost step with her into his sledge , with six white horse .
In the meantime the wicked step-mother be wait at home for news of the girl 's death , and prepare pancake for the funeral feast .
And she say to her husband : ` Old man , you have good go out into the field and find your daughter 's body and bury her . '
Just a the old man be leave the house the little dog under the table begin to bark , say : ` YOUR daughter shall live to be your delight ; HER daughter shall die this very night . '
` Hold your tongue , you foolish beast ! '
scold the woman .
` There 's a pancake for you , but you must say : `` HER daughter shall have much silver and gold ; HIS daughter be frozen quite stiff and cold . '' '
But the doggie eat up the pancake and bark , say : ` His daughter shall wear a crown on her head ; Her daughter shall die unwooed , unwed . '
Then the old woman try to coax the doggie with more pancake and to terrify it with blow , but he bark on , always repeat the same word .
And suddenly the door creak and fly open , and a great heavy chest be push in , and behind it come the step-daughter , radiant and beautiful , in a dress all glitter with silver and gold .
For a moment the step-mother 's eye be dazzle .
Then she call to her husband : ` Old man , yoke the horse at once into the sledge , and take my daughter to the same field and leave her on the same spot exactly ; ` and so the old man take the girl and leave her beneath the same tree where he have part from his daughter .
In a few minute King Frost come past , and , look at the girl , he say : ` Are you warm , maiden ? '
` What a blind old fool you must be to ask such a question ! '
she answer angrily .
` Ca n't you see that my hand and foot be nearly frozen ? '
Then King Frost sprang to and fro in front of her , question her , and get only rude , rough word in reply , till at last he get very angry , and crack his finger , and gnash his teeth , and freeze her to death .
But in the hut her mother be wait for her return , and a she grow impatient she say to her husband : ` Get out the horse , old man , to go and fetch her home ; but see that you be careful not to upset the sledge and lose the chest . '
But the doggie beneath the table begin to bark , say : ` Your daughter be frozen quite stiff and cold , And shall never have a chest full of gold . '
` Do n't tell such wicked lie ! '
scold the woman .
` There 's a cake for you ; now say : `` HER daughter shall marry a mighty King . ''
At that moment the door fly open , and she rush out to meet her daughter , and a she take her frozen body in her arm she too be chill to death .
THE DEATH OF THE SUN-HERO -LRB- 27 -RRB- -LRB- 27 -RRB- From the Bukowinaer Tales and Legends .
Von Wliolocki .
Many , many thousand year ago there live a mighty King whom heaven have bless with a clever and beautiful son .
When he be only ten year old the boy be clever than all the King 's counsellor put together , and when he be twenty he be the great hero in the whole kingdom .
His father could not make enough of his son , and always have him clothe in golden garment which shone and sparkle like the sun ; and his mother give him a white horse , which never sleep , and which fly like the wind .
All the people in the land love him dearly , and call him the Sun-Hero , for they do not think his like exist under the sun .
Now it happen one night that both his parent have the same extraordinary dream .
They dream that a girl all dress in red have come to them and say : ` If you wish that your son should really become the Sun-Hero in deed and not only in name , let him go out into the world and search for the Tree of the Sun , and when he have find it , let him pluck a golden apple from it and bring it home . '
When the King and Queen have each relate their dream to the other , they be much amaze that they should both have dream exactly the same about their son , and the King say to his wife , ` This be clearly a sign from heaven that we should send our son out into the world in order that he may come home the great Sun-Hero , a the Red Girl say , not only in name but in deed . '
The Queen consent with many tear , and the King at once bid his son set forth in search of the Tree of the Sun , from which he be to pluck a golden apple .
The Prince be delight at the prospect , and set out on his travel that very day .
For a long time he wander all through the world , and it be not till the ninety-ninth day after he start that he find an old man who be able to tell him where the Tree of the Sun grow .
He follow his direction , and rode on his way , and after another ninety-nine day he arrive at a golden castle , which stand in the middle of a vast wilderness .
He knock at the door , which be open noiselessly and by invisible hand .
Finding no one about , the Prince rode on , and come to a great meadow , where the Sun-Tree grow .
When he reach the tree he put out his hand to pick a golden apple ; but all of a sudden the tree grow high , so that he could not reach it fruit .
Then he hear some one behind him laugh .
Turning round , he saw the girl in red walking towards him , who address him in these word : ` Do you really imagine , brave son of the earth , that you can pluck an apple so easily from the Tree of the Sun ?
Before you can do that , you have a difficult task before you .
You must guard the tree for nine day and nine night from the ravage of two wild black wolf , who will try to harm it .
Do you think you can undertake this ? '
` Yes , ' answer the Sun-Hero , ' I will guard the Tree of the Sun nine day and nine night . '
Then the girl continue : ` Remember , though , if you do not succeed the Sun will kill you .
Now begin your watch . '
With these word the Red Girl go back into the golden castle .
She have hardly leave him when the two black wolf appear : but the Sun-Hero beat them off with his sword , and they retire , only , however , to reappear in a very short time .
The Sun-Hero chase them away once more , but he have hardly sit down to rest when the two black wolf be on the scene again .
This go on for seven day and night , when the white horse , who have never do such a thing before , turn to the Sun-Hero and say in a human voice : ` Listen to what I be go to say .
A Fairy give me to your mother in order that I might be of service to you ; so let me tell you , that if you go to sleep and let the wolf harm the tree , the Sun will surely kill you .
The Fairy , foresee this , put everyone in the world under a spell , which prevent their obey the Sun 's command to take your life .
But all the same , she have forget one person , who will certainly kill you if you fall asleep and let the wolf damage the tree .
So watch and keep the wolf away . '
Then the Sun-Hero strove with all his might and keep the black wolf at bay , and conquer his desire to sleep ; but on the eighth night his strength fail him , and he fell fast asleep .
When he awake a woman in black stood beside him , who say : ` You have fulfil your task very badly , for you have let the two black wolf damage the Tree of the Sun .
I be the mother of the Sun , and I command you to ride away from here at once , and I pronounce sentence of death upon you , for you proudly let yourself be call the Sun-Hero without have do anything to deserve the name . '
The youth mount his horse sadly , and ride home .
The people all throng round him on his return , anxious to hear his adventure , but he tell them nothing , and only to his mother do he confide what have befall him .
But the old Queen laugh , and say to her son : ` Do n't worry , my child ; you see , the Fairy have protect you so far , and the Sun have find no one to kill you .
So cheer up and be happy . '
After a time the Prince forget all about his adventure , and marry a beautiful Princess , with whom he live very happily for some time .
But one day when he be out hunt he felt very thirsty , and come to a stream he stoop down to drink from it , and this cause his death , for a crab come swim up , and with it claw tear out his tongue .
He be carry home in a die condition , and a he lay on his death-bed the black woman appear and say : ` So the Sun have , after all , find someone , who be not under the Fairy 's spell , who have cause your death .
And a similar fate will overtake everyone under the Sun who wrongfully assume a title to which he have no right . '
THE WITCH -LRB- 28 -RRB- -LRB- 28 -RRB- From the Russian .
Once upon a time there be a peasant whose wife die , leave him with two child -- twin -- a boy and a girl .
For some year the poor man live on alone with the child , care for them as best he could ; but everything in the house seem to go wrong without a woman to look after it , and at last he make up his mind to marry again , feel that a wife would bring peace and order to his household and take care of his motherless child .
So he marry , and in the following year several child be bear to him ; but peace and order do not come to the household .
For the step-mother be very cruel to the twin , and beat them , and half-starved them , and constantly drive them out of the house ; for her one idea be to get them out of the way .
All day she think of nothing but how she should get rid of them ; and at last an evil idea come into her head , and she determine to send them out into the great gloomy wood where a wicked witch live .
And so one morning she speak to them , say : ` You have be such good child that I be go to send you to visit my granny , who live in a dear little hut in the wood .
You will have to wait upon her and serve her , but you will be well reward , for she will give you the best of everything . '
So the child leave the house together ; and the little sister , who be very wise for her year , say to the brother : ` We will first go and see our own dear grandmother , and tell her where our step-mother be send u . '
And when the grandmother heard where they be go , she cry and say : ` You poor motherless child !
How I pity you ; and yet I can do nothing to help you !
Your step-mother be not send you to her granny , but to a wicked witch who live in that great gloomy wood .
Now listen to me , child .
You must be civil and kind to everyone , and never say a cross word to anyone , and never touch a crumb belong to anyone else .
Who know if , after all , help may not be send to you ? '
And she give her grandchild a bottle of milk and a piece of ham and a loaf of bread , and they set out for the great gloomy wood .
When they reach it they saw in front of them , in the thickest of the tree , a queer little hut , and when they look into it , there lay the witch , with her head on the threshold of the door , with one foot in one corner and the other in the other corner , and her knee cock up , almost touch the ceiling .
` Who 's there ? '
she snarl , in an awful voice , when she saw the child .
And they answer civilly , though they be so terrify that they hide behind one another , and say : ` Good-morning , granny ; our step-mother have send u to wait upon you , and serve you . '
` See that you do it well , then , ' growl the witch .
` If I be pleased with you , I 'll reward you ; but if I be not , I 'll put you in a pan and fry you in the oven -- that 's what I 'll do with you , my pretty dear !
You have be gently rear , but you 'll find my work hard enough .
See if you do n't . '
And , so say , she set the girl down to spin yarn , and she give the boy a sieve in which to carry water from the well , and she herself go out into the wood .
Now , a the girl be sit at her distaff , weep bitterly because she could not spin , she hear the sound of hundred of little foot , and from every hole and corner in the hut mouse come patter along the floor , squeak and say : ` Little girl , why be your eye so red ?
If you want help , then give u some bread . '
And the girl give them the bread that her grandmother have give her .
Then the mouse tell her that the witch have a cat , and the cat be very fond of ham ; if she would give the cat her ham , it would show her the way out of the wood , and in the meantime they would spin the yarn for her .
So the girl set out to look for the cat , and , a she be hunt about , she meet her brother , in great trouble because he could not carry water from the well in a sieve , a it come pour out as fast a he put it in .
And a she be try to comfort him they hear a rustling of wing , and a flight of wren alight on the ground beside them .
And the wren say : ` Give u some crumb , then you need not grieve .
For you 'll find that water will stay in the sieve . '
Then the twin crumble their bread on the ground , and the wren peck it , and chirrup and chirp .
And when they have eat the last crumb they tell the boy to fill up the hole of the sieve with clay , and then to draw water from the well .
So he do what they say , and carry the sieve full of water into the hut without spill a drop .
When they enter the hut the cat be curl up on the floor .
So they stroke her , and feed her with ham , and say to her : ` Pussy , grey pussy , tell u how we be to get away from the witch ? '
Then the cat thank them for the ham , and give them a pocket-handkerchief and a comb , and tell them that when the witch pursue them , a she certainly would , all they have to do be to throw the handkerchief on the ground and run as fast a they could .
As soon a the handkerchief touch the ground a deep , broad river would spring up , which would hinder the witch 's progress .
If she manage to get across it , they must throw the comb behind them and run for their life , for where the comb fell a dense forest would start up , which would delay the witch so long that they would be able to get safely away .
The cat have scarcely finish speaking when the witch return to see if the child have fulfil their task .
` Well , you have do well enough for to-day , ' she grumble ; ` but to-morrow you 'll have something more difficult to do , and if you do n't do it well , you pamper brat , straight into the oven you go . '
Half-dead with fright , and tremble in every limb , the poor child lay down to sleep on a heap of straw in the corner of the hut ; but they dare not close their eye , and scarcely venture to breathe .
In the morning the witch give the girl two piece of linen to weave before night , and the boy a pile of wood to cut into chip .
Then the witch leave them to their task , and go out into the wood .
As soon a she have go out of sight the child take the comb and the handkerchief , and , take one another by the hand , they start and run , and run , and run .
And first they meet the watch-dog , who be go to leap on them and tear them to piece ; but they throw the remains of their bread to him , and he eat them and wag his tail .
Then they be hinder by the birch-trees , whose branch almost put their eye out .
But the little sister tie the twig together with a piece of ribbon , and they get past safely , and , after run through the wood , come out on to the open field .
In the meantime in the hut the cat be busy weave the linen and tangle the thread a it weave .
And the witch return to see how the child be get on ; and she creep up to the window , and whisper : ` Are you weave , my little dear ? '
` Yes , granny , I be weave , ' answer the cat .
When the witch saw that the child have escape her , she be furious , and , hit the cat with a porringer , she say : ` Why do you let the child leave the hut ?
Why do you not scratch their eye out ? '
But the cat curl up it tail and put it back up , and answer : ' I have serve you all these year and you never even throw me a bone , but the dear child give me their own piece of ham . '
Then the witch be furious with the watch-dog and with the birch-trees , because they have let the child pas .
But the dog answer : ' I have serve you all these year and you never give me so much a a hard crust , but the dear child give me their own loaf of bread . '
And the birch rustle it leaf , and say : ' I have serve you long than I can say , and you never tie a bit of twine even round my branch ; and the dear child bind them up with their bright ribbon . '
So the witch saw there be no help to be get from her old servant , and that the best thing she could do be to mount on her broom and set off in pursuit of the child .
And a the child run they hear the sound of the broom sweep the ground close behind them , so instantly they throw the handkerchief down over their shoulder , and in a moment a deep , broad river flow behind them .
When the witch come up to it , it take her a long time before she find a place which she could ford over on her broom-stick ; but at last she get across , and continue the chase faster than before .
And a the child run they hear a sound , and the little sister put her ear to the ground , and hear the broom sweep the earth close behind them ; so , quick a thought , she throw the comb down on the ground , and in an instant , a the cat have say , a dense forest sprung up , in which the root and branch be so closely intertwined , that it be impossible to force a way through it .
So when the witch come up to it on her broom she find that there be nothing for it but to turn round and go back to her hut .
But the twin run straight on till they reach their own home .
Then they tell their father all that they have suffer , and he be so angry with their step-mother that he drive her out of the house , and never let her return ; but he and the child live happily together ; and he take care of them himself , and never let a stranger come near them .
THE HAZEL-NUT CHILD -LRB- 29 -RRB- -LRB- 29 -RRB- From the Bukowniaer .
Van Wliolocki .
There be once upon a time a couple who have no child , and they pray Heaven every day to send them a child , though it be no big than a hazel-nut .
At last Heaven hear their prayer and send them a child exactly the size of a hazel-nut , and it never grow an inch .
The parent be very devote to the little creature , and nursed and tend it carefully .
Their tiny son too be as clever a he could be , and so sharp and sensible that all the neighbour marvel over the wise thing he say and do .
When the Hazel-nut child be fifteen year old , and be sit one day in an egg-shell on the table beside his mother , she turn to him and say , ` You be now fifteen year old , and nothing can be do with you .
What do you intend to be ? ' '
A messenger , ' answer the Hazel-nut child .
Then his mother burst out laughing and say , ` What an idea !
You a messenger !
Why , your little foot would take an hour to go the distance an ordinary person could do in a minute ! '
But the Hazel-nut child reply , ` Nevertheless I mean to be a messenger !
Just send me a message and you 'll see that I shall be back in next to no time . '
So his mother say , ` Very well , go to your aunt in the neighbouring village , and fetch me a comb . '
The Hazel-nut child jump quickly out of the egg-shell and run out into the street .
Here he find a man on horseback who be just set out for the neighbouring village .
He creep up the horse 's leg , sit down under the saddle , and then begin to pinch the horse and to prick it with a pin .
The horse plunge and rear and then set off at a hard gallop , which it continue in spite of it rider 's effort to stop it .
When they reach the village , the Hazel-nut child leave off prick the horse , and the poor tired creature pursue it way at a snail 's pace .
The Hazel-nut child take advantage of this , and creep down the horse 's leg ; then he run to his aunt and ask her for a comb .
On the way home he meet another rider , and do the return journey in exactly the same way .
When he hand his mother the comb that his aunt have give him , she be much amaze and ask him , ` But how do you manage to get back so quickly ? '
` Ah !
mother , ' he reply , ` you see I be quite right when I say I know a messenger be the profession for me . '
His father too possess a horse which he often use to take out into the field to graze .
One day he take the Hazel-nut child with him .
At midday the father turn to his small son and say , ` Stay here and look after the horse .
I must go home and give your mother a message , but I shall be back soon . '
When his father have go , a robber pass by and saw the horse graze without any one watching it , for of course he could not see the Hazel-nut child hidden in the grass .
So he mount the horse and ride away .
But the Hazel-nut child , who be the most active little creature , climb up the horse 's tail and begin to bite it on the back , enrage the creature to such an extent that it pay no attention to the direction the robber try to make it go in , but gallop straight home .
The father be much astonish when he saw a stranger rid his horse , but the Hazel-nut child climb down quickly and tell him all that have happen , and his father have the robber arrest at once and put into prison .
One autumn when the Hazel-nut child be twenty year old he say to his parent : ` Farewell , my dear father and mother .
I be go to set out into the world , and as soon a I have become rich I will return home to you . '
The parent laugh at the little man 's word , but do not believe him for a moment .
In the even the Hazel-nut child crept on to the roof , where some stork have build their nest .
The stork be fast asleep , and he climb on to the back of the father-stork and bind a silk cord round the joint of one of it wing , then he creep among it soft downy feather and fell asleep .
The next morning the stork fly towards the south , for winter be approach .
The Hazel-nut child fly through the air on the stork 's back , and when he want to rest he bind his silk cord on to the joint of the bird 's other wing , so that it could not fly any farther .
In this way he reach the country of the black people , where the stork take up their abode close to the capital .
When the people saw the Hazel-nut child they be much astonish , and take him with the stork to the King of the country .
The King be delight with the little creature and keep him always beside him , and he soon grow so fond of the little man that he give him a diamond four time as big a himself .
The Hazel-nut child fasten the diamond firmly under the stork 's neck with a ribbon , and when he saw that the other stork be get ready for their northern flight , he untie the silk cord from his stork 's wing , and away they go , get near home every minute .
At length the Hazel-nut child come to his native village ; then he undo the ribbon from the stork 's neck and the diamond fell to the ground ; he cover it first with sand and stone , and then run to get his parent , so that they might carry the treasure home , for he himself be not able to lift the great diamond .
So the Hazel-nut child and his parent live in happiness and prosperity after this till they die .
THE STORY OF BIG KLAUS AND LITTLE KLAUS In a certain village there live two people who have both the same name .
Both be call Klaus , but one own four horse and the other only one .
In order to distinguish the one from the other , the one who have four horse be call Big Klaus , and the one who have only one horse , Little Klaus .
Now you shall hear what befall them both , for this be a true story .
The whole week through Little Klaus have to plough for Big Klaus , and lend him his one horse ; then Big Klaus lend him his four horse , but only once a week , and that be on Sunday .
Hurrah !
how loudly Little Klaus crack his whip over all the five horse !
for they be indeed as good a his on this one day .
The sun shone brightly , and all the bell in the church-towers be peal ; the people be dress in their best clothes , and be go to church , with their hymn book under their arm , to hear the minister preach .
They saw Little Klaus plough with the five horse ; but he be so happy that he keep on crack his whip , and call out ` Gee-up , my five horse ! '
` You must n't say that , ' say Big Klaus .
` Only one horse be yours . '
But as soon a someone else be go by Little Klaus forget that he must not say it , and call out ` Gee-up , my five horse ! '
` Now you have good stop that , ' say Big Klaus , ` for if you say it once more I will give your horse such a crack on the head that it will drop down dead on the spot ! ' '
I really wo n't say it again ! '
say Little Klaus .
But as soon a more people pass by , and nod him good-morning , he become so happy in think how well it look to have five horse plough his field that , crack his whip , he call out ` Gee-up , my five horse ! '
` I 'll see to your horse ! '
say Big Klaus ; and , seize an iron bar , he strike Little Klaus ' one horse such a blow on the head that it fell down and die on the spot .
` Alas !
Now I have no horse ! '
say Little Klaus , begin to cry .
Then he flay the skin off his horse , dry it , and put it in a sack , which he throw over his shoulder , and go into the town to sell it .
He have a long way to go , and have to pass through a great dark forest .
A dreadful storm come on , in which he lose his way , and before he could get on to the right road night come on , and it be impossible to reach the town that even .
Right in front of him be a large farm-house .
The window-shutters be close , but the light come through the chink . '
I should very much like to be allow to spend the night there , ' think Little Klaus ; and he go and knock at the door .
The farmer 's wife open it , but when she hear what he want she tell him to go away ; her husband be not at home , and she take in no stranger .
` Well , I must lie down outside , ' say Little Klaus ; and the farmer 's wife shut the door in his face .
Close by stand a large haystack , and between it and the house a little out-house , cover with a flat thatch roof . '
I can lie down there , ' think Little Klaus , look at the roof ; ` it will make a splendid bed , if only the stork wo n't fly down and bite my leg . '
For a live stork be stand on the roof , where it have it nest .
So Little Klaus creep up into the out-house , where he lay down , and make himself comfortable for the night .
The wooden shutter over the window be not shut at the top , and he could just see into the room .
There stand a large table , spread with wine and roast meat and a beautiful fish .
The farmer 's wife and the sexton sit at the table , but there be no one else .
She be fill up his glass , while he stick his fork into the fish which be his favourite dish .
` If one could only get some of that ! '
think Little Klaus , stretch his head towards the window .
Ah , what delicious cake he saw stand there !
It WAS a feast !
Then he hear someone rid along the road towards the house .
It be the farmer come home .
He be a very worthy man ; but he have one great peculiarity -- namely , that he could not bear to see a sexton .
If he saw one he be make quite mad .
That be why the sexton have go to say good-day to the farmer 's wife when he know that her husband be not at home , and the good woman therefore put in front of him the best food she have .
But when they hear the farmer come they be frighten , and the farmer 's wife beg the sexton to creep into a great empty chest .
He do so , a he know the poor man could not bear to see a sexton .
The wife hastily hide all the beautiful food and the wine in her oven ; for if her husband have see it , he would have be sure to ask what it all meant .
` Oh , dear !
oh , dear ! '
groan Little Klaus up in the shed , when he saw the good food disappearing .
` Is anybody up there ? '
ask the farmer , catch sight of Little Klaus .
` Why be you lie there ?
Come with me into the house . '
Then Little Klaus tell him how he have lose his way , and beg to be allow to spend the night there .
` Yes , certainly , ' say the farmer ; ` but we must first have something to eat ! '
The wife receive them both very kindly , spread a long table , and give them a large plate of porridge .
The farmer be hungry , and ate with a good appetite ; but Little Klaus could not help thinking of the delicious dish of fish and roast meat and cake which he know be in the oven .
Under the table at his foot he have lay the sack with the horse-skin in it , for , a we know , he be go to the town to sell it .
The porridge do not taste good to him , so he tread upon his sack , and the dry skin in the sack squeak loudly .
` Hush ! '
say Little Klaus to his sack , at the same time tread on it again so that it squeak even loud than before .
` Hallo !
what have you get in your sack ? '
ask the farmer .
` Oh , it be a wizard ! '
say Little Klaus .
` He say we should not eat porridge , for he have conjure the whole oven full of roast meat and fish and cake . '
` Goodness me ! '
say the farmer ; and open the oven he saw all the delicious , tempt dish his wife have hide there , but which he now believe the wizard in the sack have conjure up for them .
The wife could say nothing , but she put the food at once on the table , and they eat the fish , the roast meat , and the cake .
Little Klaus now tread again on his sack , so that the skin squeak .
` What do he say now ? '
ask the farmer .
` He say , ' reply Little Klans , ` that he have also conjure up for u three bottle of wine ; they be stand in the corner by the oven ! '
The wife have to fetch the wine which she have hide , and the farmer drank and grow very merry .
He would very much like to have have such a wizard a Little Klaus have in the sack .
` Can he conjure up the Devil ? '
ask the farmer . '
I should like to see him very much , for I feel just now in very good spirit ! '
` Yes , ' say Little Klaus ; ` my wizard can do everything that I ask .
Is n't that true ? '
he ask , tread on the sack so that it squeak .
` Do you hear ?
He say '' Yes ; '' but that the Devil look so ugly that we should not like to see him . '
` Oh !
I 'm not at all afraid .
What do he look like ? '
` He will show himself in the shape of a sexton ! ' '
I say ! '
say the farmer , ` he must be ugly !
You must know that I ca n't bear to look at a sexton !
But it do n't matter .
I know that it be the Devil , and I sha 'n ' t mind !
I feel up to it now .
But he must not come too near me ! ' '
I must ask my wizard , ' say Little Klaus , tread on the sack and put his ear to it .
` What do he say ? '
` He say you can open the chest in the corner there , and you will see the Devil squatting inside it ; but you must hold the lid so that he shall not escape . '
` Will you help me to hold him ? '
beg the farmer , go towards the chest where his wife have hide the real sexton , who be sit inside in a terrible fright .
The farmer open the lid a little way , and saw him inside .
` Ugh ! '
he shriek , spring back .
` Yes , now I have see him ; he look just like our sexton .
Oh , it be horrid ! '
So he have to drink again , and they drink till far on into the night .
` You MUST sell me the wizard , ' say the farmer .
` Ask anything you like !
I will pay you down a bushelful of money on the spot . '
` No , I really ca n't , ' say Little Klans .
` Just think how many thing I can get from this wizard ! '
` Ah !
I should like to have him so much ! '
say the farmer , beg very hard .
` Well ! '
say Little Klaus at last , ` a you have be so good a to give me shelter to-night , I will sell him .
You shall have the wizard for a bushel of money , but I must have full measure . '
` That you shall , ' say the farmer .
` But you must take the chest with you .
I wo n't keep it another hour in the house .
Who know that he be n't in there still ? '
Little Klaus give the farmer his sack with the dry skin , and get instead a good bushelful of money .
The farmer also give him a wheelbarrow to carry away his money and the chest .
` Farewell , ' say Little Klaus ; and away he go with his money and the big chest , wherein sit the sexton .
On the other side of the wood be a large deep river .
The water flow so rapidly that you could scarcely swim against the stream .
A great new bridge have be build over it , on the middle of which Little Klaus stop , and say aloud so that the sexton might hear : ` Now , what be I to do with this stupid chest ?
It be as heavy a if it be fill with stone !
I shall only be tire , drag it along ; I will throw it into the river .
If it swim home to me , well and good ; and if it do n't , it 's no matter . '
Then he take the chest with one hand and lift it up a little , a if he be go to throw it into the water .
` No , do n't do that ! '
call out the sexton in the chest .
` Let me get out first ! '
` Oh , oh ! '
say Little Klaus , pretend that he be afraid .
` He be still in there !
I must throw him quickly into the water to drown him ! '
` Oh !
no , no ! '
cry the sexton . '
I will give you a whole bushelful of money if you will let me go ! '
` Ah , that 's quite another thing ! '
say Little Klaus , open the chest .
The sexton creep out very quickly , push the empty chest into the water and go to his house , where he give Little Klaus a bushel of money .
One he have have already from the farmer , and now he have his wheelbarrow full of money .
` Well , I have get a good price for the horse ! '
say he to himself when he shake all his money out in a heap in his room .
` This will put Big Klaus in a rage when he hear how rich I have become through my one horse ; but I wo n't tell him just yet ! '
So he send a boy to Big Klaus to borrow a bushel measure from him .
` Now what can he want with it ? '
think Big Klaus ; and he smear some tar at the bottom , so that of whatever be measure a little should remain in it .
And this be just what happen ; for when he get his measure back , three new silver five-shilling piece be stick to it .
What do this mean ? '
say Big Klaus , and he run off at once to Little Klaus .
` Where do you get so much money from ? '
` Oh , that be from my horse-skin .
I sell it yesterday even . '
` That 's certainly a good price ! '
say Big Klaus ; and run home in great haste , he take an axe , knock all his four horse on the head , skin them , and go into the town .
` Skins !
skin !
Who will buy skin ? '
he cry through the street .
All the shoemaker and tanner come run to ask him what he want for them . '
A bushel of money for each , ' say Big Klaus .
` Are you mad ? '
they all exclaim .
` Do you think we have money by the bushel ? '
` Skins !
skin !
Who will buy skin ? '
he cry again , and to all who ask him what they cost , he answer , ' A bushel of money . '
` He be make game of u , ' they say ; and the shoemaker seize their yard measure and the tanner their leathern apron and they give Big Klaus a good beating .
` Skins !
skin ! '
they cry mockingly ; yes , we will tan YOUR skin for you !
Out of the town with him ! '
they shout ; and Big Klaus have to hurry off as quickly a he could , if he want to save his life .
` Aha ! '
say he when he come home , ` Little Klaus shall pay dearly for this .
I will kill him ! '
Little Klaus ' grandmother have just die .
Though she have be very unkind to him , he be very much distress , and he take the dead woman and lay her in his warm bed to try if he could not bring her back to life .
There she lay the whole night , while he sit in the corner and sleep on a chair , which he have often do before .
And in the night a he sit there the door open , and Big Klaus come in with his axe .
He know quite well where Little Klaus 's bed stand , and go up to it he strike the grandmother on the head just where he think Little Klaus would be .
` There ! '
say he .
` Now you wo n't get the best of me again ! '
And he go home .
` What a very wicked man ! '
think Little Klaus .
` He be go to kill me !
It be a good thing for my grandmother that she be dead already , or else he would have kill her ! '
Then he dress his grandmother in her Sunday clothes , borrow a horse from his neighbour , harness the cart to it , sit his grandmother on the back seat so that she could not fall out when he drive , and away they go .
When the sun rise they be in front of a large inn .
Little Klaus get down , and go in to get something to drink .
The host be very rich .
He be a very worthy but hot-tempered man .
` Good morning ! '
say he to Little Klaus .
` You be early on the road . '
` Yes , ' say Little Klaus . '
I be go to the town with my grandmother .
She be sit outside in the cart ; I can not bring her in .
Will you not give her a glass of mead ?
But you will have to speak loud , for she be very hard of hear . '
` Oh yes , certainly I will ! '
say the host ; and , pour out a large glass of mead , he take it out to the dead grandmother , who be sit upright in the cart .
` Here be a glass of mead from your son , ' say the host .
But the dead woman do not answer a word , and sit still .
` Do n't you hear ? '
cry the host as loud a he could .
` Here be a glass of mead from your son ! '
Then he shout the same thing again , and yet again , but she never move in her place ; and at last he grow angry , throw the glass in her face , so that she fell back into the cart , for she be not tie in her place .
` Hullo ! '
cry Little Klaus , run out of the door , and seize the host by the throat .
` You have kill my grandmother !
Look !
there be a great hole in her forehead ! '
` Oh , what a misfortune ! '
cry the host , wring his hand .
` It all come from my hot temper !
Dear Little Klaus !
I will give you a bushel of money , and will bury your grandmother a if she be my own ; only do n't tell about it , or I shall have my head cut off , and that would be very uncomfortable . '
So Little Klaus get a bushel of money , and the host bury his grandmother a if she have be his own .
Now when Little Klaus again reach home with so much money he send his boy to Big Klaus to borrow his bushel measure .
` What 's this ? '
say Big Klaus .
` Did n't I kill him ?
I must see to this myself ! '
So he go himself to Little Klaus with the measure .
` Well , now , where do you get all this money ? '
ask he , open his eye at the heap .
` You kill my grandmother -- not me , ' say Little Klaus . '
I sell her , and get a bushel of money for her . '
` That be indeed a good price ! '
say Big Klaus ; and , hurry home , he take an axe and kill his grandmother , lay her in the cart , and drive off to the apothecary 's , and ask whether he want to buy a dead body .
` Who be it , and how do you get it ? '
ask the apothecary .
` It be my grandmother , ' say Big Klaus . '
I kill her in order to get a bushel of money . '
` You be mad ! '
say the apothecary .
` Do n't mention such thing , or you will lose your head ! '
And he begin to tell him what a dreadful thing he have do , and what a wicked man he be , and that he ought to be punish ; till Big Klaus be so frightened that he jump into the cart and drive home as hard a he could .
The apothecary and all the people think he must be mad , so they let him go .
` You shall pay for this ! '
say Big Klaus a he drive home .
` You shall pay for this dearly , Little Klaus ! '
So as soon a he get home he take the large sack he could find , and go to Little Klaus and say : ` You have fool me again !
First I kill my horse , then my grandmother !
It be all your fault ; but you sha 'n ' t do it again ! '
And he seize Little Klaus , push him in the sack , throw it over his shoulder , cry out ` Now I be go to drown you ! '
He have to go a long way before he come to the river , and Little Klaus be not very light .
The road pass by the church ; the organ be sound , and the people be sing most beautifully .
Big Klaus put down the sack with Little Klaus in it by the church-door , and think that he might as well go in and hear a psalm before go on farther .
Little Klaus could not get out , and everybody be in church ; so he go in .
` Oh , dear !
oh , dear ! '
groan Little Klaus in the sack , twist and turn himself .
But he could not undo the string .
There come by an old , old shepherd , with snow-white hair and a long staff in his hand .
He be drive a herd of cow and ox .
These push against the sack so that it be overturn .
` Alas ! '
moan Little Klans , ' I be so young and yet I must die ! '
` And I , poor man , ' say the cattle-driver , ' I be so old and yet I can not die ! '
` Open the sack , ' call out Little Klaus ; ` creep in here instead of me , and you will die in a moment ! ' '
I will gladly do that , ' say the cattle-driver ; and he open the sack , and Little Klaus struggle out at once .
` You will take care of the cattle , wo n't you ? '
ask the old man , creep into the sack , which Little Klaus fasten up and then go on with the cow and ox .
Soon after Big Klaus come out of the church , and take up the sack on his shoulder it seem to him a if it have become lighter ; for the old cattle-driver be not half as heavy a Little Klaus .
` How easy he be to carry now !
That must be because I hear part of the service . '
So he go to the river , which be deep and broad , throw in the sack with the old driver , and call after it , for he think Little Klaus be inside : ` Down you go !
You wo n't mock me any more now ! '
Then he go home ; but when he come to the cross-roads , there he meet Little Klaus , who be drive his cattle .
` What 's this ? '
say Big Klaus .
` Have n't I drown you ? '
` Yes , ' reply Little Klaus ; ` you throw me into the river a good half-hour ago ! '
` But how do you get those splendid cattle ? '
ask Big Klaus .
` They be sea-cattle ! '
say Little Klaus . '
I will tell you the whole story , and I thank you for have drown me , because now I be on dry land and really rich !
How frighten I be when I be in the sack !
How the wind whistle in my ear a you throw me from the bridge into the cold water !
I sink at once to the bottom ; but I do not hurt myself for underneath be grow the most beautiful soft grass .
I fell on this , and immediately the sack open ; the lovely maiden in snow-white garment , with a green garland round her wet hair , take me by the hand , and say ! ''
Are you Little Klaus ?
Here be some cattle for you to begin with , and a mile far down the road there be another herd , which I will give you a a present ! ''
Now I saw that the river be a great high-road for the sea-people .
Along it they travel underneath from the sea to the land till the river end .
It be so beautiful , full of flower and fresh grass ; the fish which be swim in the water shot past my ear a the bird do here in the air .
What lovely people there be , and what fine cattle be graze in the ditch and dyke ! '
` But why do you come up to u again ? '
ask Big Klaus . '
I should not have do so , if it be so beautiful down below ! '
` Oh ! '
say Little Klaus , ` that be just so politic of me .
You hear what I tell you , that the sea-maiden say to me a mile far along the road -- and by the road she mean the river , for she can go by no other way -- there be another herd of cattle wait for me .
But I know what wind the river make , now here , now there , so that it be a long way round .
Therefore it make it much short if one come on the land and drive across the field to the river .
Thus I have spar myself quite half a mile , and have come much quicker to my sea-cattle ! '
` Oh , you 're a lucky fellow ! '
say Big Klaus .
` Do you think I should also get some cattle if I go to the bottom of the river ? '
` Oh , yes !
I think so , ' say Little Klaus .
` But I ca n't carry you in a sack to the river ; you be too heavy for me !
If you like to go there yourself and then creep into the sack , I will throw you in with the great of pleasure . '
` Thank you , ' say Big Klaus ; ` but if I do n't get any sea-cattle when I come there , you will have a good hiding , mind ! '
` Oh , no !
Do n't be so hard on me ! '
Then they go to the river .
When the cattle , which be thirsty , caught sight of the water , they run as quickly a they could to drink .
` Look how they be run ! '
say Little Klaus .
` They want to go to the bottom again ! '
` Yes ; but help me first , ' say Big Klaus , ` or else you shall have a beating ! '
And so he creep into the large sack , which be lie on the back of one of the ox .
` Put a stone in , for I be afraid I may not reach the bottom , ' say Big Klaus .
` It go all right ! '
say Little Klaus ; but still he lay a big stone in the sack , fasten it up tight , and then push it in .
Plump !
there be Big Klaus in the water , and he sink like lead to the bottom . '
I doubt if he will find any cattle ! '
say Little Klaus a he drive his own home .
PRINCE RING -LRB- 30 -RRB- -LRB- 30 -RRB- From the Icelandic .
Once upon a time there be a King and his Queen in their kingdom .
They have one daughter , who be call Ingiborg , and one son , whose name be Ring .
He be less fond of adventure than men of rank usually be in those day , and be not famous for strength or feat of arm .
When he be twelve year old , one fine winter day he ride into the forest along with his men to enjoy himself .
They go on a long way , until they catch sight of a hind with a gold ring on it horn .
The Prince be eager to catch it , if possible , so they give chase and rode on without stop until all the horse begin to founder beneath them .
At last the Prince 's horse give way too , and then there come over them a darkness so black that they could no longer see the hind .
By this time they be far away from any house , and think it be high time to be make their way home again , but they find they have get lose now .
At first they all keep together , but soon each begin to think that he know the right way best ; so they separate , and all go in different direction .
The Prince , too , have get lose like the rest , and wander on for a time until he come to a little clearing in the forest not far from the sea , where he saw a woman sit on a chair and a big barrel stand beside her .
The Prince go up to her and salute her politely , and she receive him very graciously .
He look down into the barrel then , and saw lie at the bottom an unusually beautiful gold ring , which please him so much that he could not take his eye off it .
The woman saw this , and say that he might have it if he would take the trouble to get it ; for which the Prince thank her , and say it be at least worth try .
So he lean over into the barrel , which do not seem very deep , and think he would easily reach the ring ; but the more he stretch down after it the deep grow the barrel .
As he be thus bend down into it the woman suddenly rise up and push him in head first , say that now he could take up his quarter there .
Then she fix the top on the barrel and throw it out into the sea .
The Prince think himself in a bad plight now , a he felt the barrel float out from the land and toss about on the wave .
How many day he spend thus he could not tell , but at last he felt that the barrel be knock against rock , at which he be a little cheered , think it be probably land and not merely a reef in the sea .
Being something of a swimmer , he at last make up his mind to kick the bottom out of the barrel , and have do so he be able to get on shore , for the rock by the sea be smooth and level ; but overhead there be high cliff .
It seem difficult to get up these , but he go along the foot of them for a little , till at last he try to climb up , which at last he do .
Having get to the top , he look round about him and saw that he be on an island , which be cover with forest , with apple grow , and altogether pleasant as far a the land be concern .
After he have be there several day , he one day hear a great noise in the forest , which make him terribly afraid , so that he run to hide himself among the tree .
Then he saw a Giant approaching , drag a sledge load with wood , and make straight for him , so that he could see nothing for it but to lie down just where he be .
When the Giant come across him , he stand still and look at the Prince for a little ; then he take him up in his arm and carry him home to his house , and be exceedingly kind to him .
He give him to his wife , say he have find this child in the wood , and she could have it to help her in the house .
The old woman be greatly pleased , and begin to fondle the Prince with the utmost delight .
He stay there with them , and be very willing and obedient to them in everything , while they grow kinder to him every day .
One day the Giant take him round and show him all his room except the parlour ; this make the Prince curious to have a look into it , think there must be some very rare treasure there .
So one day , when the Giant have go into the forest , he try to get into the parlour , and manage to get the door open half-way .
Then he saw that some living creature move inside and run along the floor towards him and say something , which make him so frighten that he spring back from the door and shut it again .
As soon a the fright begin to pass off he try it again , for he think it would be interest to hear what it say ; but thing go just a before with him .
He then get angry with himself , and , summon up all his courage , try it a third time , and open the door of the room and stand firm .
Then he saw that it be a big Dog , which speak to him and say : ` Choose me , Prince Ring . '
The Prince go away rather afraid , think with himself that it be no great treasure after all ; but all the same what it have say to him stick in his mind .
It be not say how long the Prince stay with the Giant , but one day the latter come to him and say he would now take him over to the mainland out of the island , for he himself have no long time to live .
He also thank him for his good service , and tell him to choose some-one of his possession , for he would get whatever he want .
Ring thank him heartily , and say there be no need to pay him for his service , they be so little worth ; but if he do wish to give him anything he would choose what be in the parlour .
The Giant be take by surprise , and say : ` There , you choose my old woman 's right hand ; but I must not break my word . '
Upon this he go to get the Dog , which come run with sign of great delight ; but the Prince be so much afraid of it that it be all he could do to keep from show his alarm .
After this the Giant accompany him down to the sea , where he saw a stone boat which be just big enough to hold the two of them and the Dog .
On reach the mainland the Giant take a friendly farewell of Ring , and tell him he might take possession of all that be in the island after he and his wife die , which would happen within two week from that time .
The Prince thank him for this and for all his other kindness , and the Giant return home , while Ring go up some distance from the sea ; but he do not know what land he have come to , and be afraid to speak to the Dog .
After he have walk on in silence for a time the Dog speak to him and say : ` You do n't seem to have much curiosity , see you never ask my name . '
The Prince then force himself to ask , ` What be your name ? '
` You have best call me Snati-Snati , ' say the Dog .
` Now we be come to a King 's seat , and you must ask the King to keep u all winter , and to give you a little room for both of u . '
The Prince now begin to be less afraid of the Dog .
They come to the King and ask him to keep them all the winter , to which he agree .
When the King 's men saw the Dog they begin to laugh at it , and make a if they would tease it ; but when the Prince saw this he advise them not to do it , or they might have the bad of it .
They reply that they do n't care a bit what he think .
After Ring have be with the King for some day the latter begin to think there be a great deal in him , and esteem him more than the others .
The King , however , have a counsellor call Red , who become very jealous when he saw how much the King esteem Ring ; and one day he talk to him , and say he could not understand why he have so good an opinion of this stranger , who have not yet show himself superior to other men in anything .
The King reply that it be only a short time since he have come there .
Red then ask him to send them both to cut down wood next morning , and see which of them could do most work .
Snati-Snati heard this and tell it to Ring , advise him to ask the King for two ax , so that he might have one in reserve if the first one get break .
Next morning the King ask Ring and Red to go and cut down tree for him , and both agree .
Ring get the two ax , and each go his own way ; but when the Prince have get out into the wood Snati take one of the ax and begin to hew along with him .
In the even the King come to look over their day 's work , a Red have propose , and find that Ring 's wood-heap be more than twice a big . '
I suspect , ' say the King , ` that Ring be not quite useless ; never have I see such a day 's work . '
Ring be now in far great esteem with the King than before , and Red be all the more discontented .
One day he come to the King and say , ` If Ring be such a mighty man , I think you might ask him to kill the wild ox in the wood here , and flay them the same day , and bring you the horn and the hide in the evening . '
` Do n't you think that a desperate errand ? '
say the King , ` see they be so dangerous , and no one have ever yet venture to go against them ? '
Red answer that he have only one life to lose , and it would be interesting to see how brave he be ; besides , the King would have good reason to ennoble him if he overcome them .
The King at last allow himself , though rather unwillingly , to be win over by Red 's persistency , and one day ask Ring to go and kill the ox that be in the wood for him , and bring their horn and hide to him in the evening .
Not know how dangerous the ox be , Ring be quite ready , and go off at once , to the great delight of Red , who be now sure of his death .
As soon a Ring come in sight of the ox they come bellow to meet him ; one of them be tremendously big , the other rather less .
Ring grow terribly afraid .
` How do you like them ? '
ask Snati .
` Not well at all , ' say the Prince .
` We can do nothing else , ' say Snati , ` than attack them , if it be to go well ; you will go against the little one , and I shall take the other . '
With this Snati leapt at the big one , and be not long in bring him down .
Meanwhile the Prince go against the other with fear and trembling , and by the time Snati come to help him the ox have nearly get him under , but Snati be not slow in help his master to kill it .
Each of them then begin to flay their own ox , but Ring be only half through by the time Snati have finish his .
In the evening , after they have finish this task , the Prince think himself unfit to carry all the horn and both the hide , so Snati tell him to lay them all on his back until they get to the Palace gate .
The Prince agree , and lay everything on the Dog except the skin of the small ox , which he stagger along with himself .
At the Palace gate he leave everything lying , go before the King , and ask him to come that length with him , and there hand over to him the hide and horn of the ox .
The King be greatly surprise at his valour , and say he know no one like him , and thank him heartily for what he have do .
After this the King set Ring next to himself , and all esteem him highly , and hold him to be a great hero ; nor could Red any long say anything against him , though he grow still more determined to destroy him .
One day a good idea come into his head .
He come to the King and say he have something to say to him .
` What be that ? '
say the King .
Red say that he have just remember the gold cloak , gold chess-board , and bright gold piece that the King have lose about a year before .
` Do n't remind me of them ! '
say the King .
Red , however , go on to say that , since Ring be such a mighty man that he could do everything , it have occur to him to advise the King to ask him to search for these treasure , and come back with them before Christmas ; in return the King should promise him his daughter .
The King reply that he think it altogether unbecoming to propose such a thing to Ring , see that he could not tell him where the thing be ; but Red pretend not to hear the King 's excuse , and go on talk about it until the King give in to him .
One day , a month or so before Christmas , the King speak to Ring , say that he wish to ask a great favour of him .
` What be that ? '
say Ring .
` It be this , ' say the King : ` that you find for me my gold cloak , my gold chess-board , and my bright gold piece , that be steal from me about a year ago .
If you can bring them to me before Christmas I will give you my daughter in marriage . '
` Where be I to look for them , then ? '
say Ring .
` That you must find out for yourself , ' say the King : ' I do n't know . '
Ring now leave the King , and be very silent , for he saw he be in a great difficulty : but , on the other hand , he think it be excellent to have such a chance of win the King 's daughter .
Snati notice that his master be at a loss , and say to him that he should not disregard what the King have ask him to do ; but he would have to act upon his advice , otherwise he would get into great difficulty .
The Prince assent to this , and begin to prepare for the journey .
After he have take leave of the King , and be set out on the search , Snati say to him , ` Now you must first of all go about the neighbourhood , and gather as much salt a ever you can . '
The Prince do so , and gather so much salt that he could hardly carry it ; but Snati say , ` Throw it on my back , ' which he accordingly do , and the Dog then run on before the Prince , until they come to the foot of a steep cliff .
` We must go up here , ' say Snati . '
I do n't think that will be child 's play , ' say the Prince .
` Hold fast by my tail , ' say Snati ; and in this way he pull Ring up on the low shelf of the rock .
The Prince begin to get giddy , but up go Snati on to the second shelf .
Ring be nearly swooning by this time , but Snati make a third effort and reach the top of the cliff , where the Prince fell down in a faint .
After a little , however , he recover again , and they go a short distance along a level plain , until they come to a cave .
This be on Christmas Eve .
They go up above the cave , and find a window in it , through which they look , and saw four troll lie asleep beside the fire , over which a large porridge-pot be hang .
` Now you must empty all the salt into the porridge-pot , ' say Snati .
Ring do so , and soon the troll waken up .
The old hag , who be the most frightful of them all , go first to taste the porridge .
` How come this ? '
she say ; ` the porridge be salt !
I get the milk by witchcraft yesterday out of four kingdom , and now it be salt ! '
All the others then come to taste the porridge , and think it nice , but after they have finish it the old hag grow so thirsty that she could stand it no longer , and ask her daughter to go out and bring her some water from the river that run near by . '
I wo n't go , ' say she , ` unless you lend me your bright gold piece . '
` Though I should die you sha n't have that , ' say the hag .
` Die , then , ' say the girl .
` Well , then , take it , you brat , ' say the old hag , ` and be off with you , and make haste with the water . '
The girl take the gold and run out with it , and it be so bright that it shine all over the plain .
As soon a she come to the river she lay down to take a drink of the water , but meanwhile the two of them have get down off the roof and thrust her , head first , into the river .
The old hag begin now to long for the water , and say that the girl would be run about with the gold piece all over the plain , so she ask her son to go and get her a drop of water . '
I wo n't go , ' say he , ` unless I get the gold cloak . '
` Though I should die you sha n't have that , ' say the hag .
` Die , then , ' say the son .
` Well , then , take it , ' say the old hag , ` and be off with you , but you must make haste with the water . '
He put on the cloak , and when he come outside it shine so bright that he could see to go with it .
On reach the river he go to take a drink like his sister , but at that moment Ring and Snati spring upon him , take the cloak from him , and throw him into the river .
The old hag could stand the thirst no longer , and ask her husband to go for a drink for her ; the brat , she say , be of course run about and play themselves , just a she have expect they would , little wretch that they be . '
I wo n't go , ' say the old troll , ` unless you lend me the gold chess-board . '
` Though I should die you sha n't have that , ' say the hag . '
I think you may just as well do that , ' say he , ` since you wo n't grant me such a little favour . '
` Take it , then , you utter disgrace ! '
say the old hag , ` since you be just like these two brat . '
The old troll now go out with the gold chess-board , and down to the river , and be about to take a drink , when Ring and Snati come upon him , take the chess-board from him , and throw him into the river .
Before they have get back again , however , and up on top of the cave , they saw the poor old fellow 's ghost come march up from the river .
Snati immediately spring upon him , and Ring assist in the attack , and after a hard struggle they master him a second time .
When they get back again to the window they saw that the old hag be move towards the door .
` Now we must go in at once , ' say Snati , ` and try to master her there , for if she once get out we shall have no chance with her .
She be the bad witch that ever live , and no iron can cut her .
One of u must pour boil porridge out of the pot on her , and the other punch her with red-hot iron . '
In they go then , and no sooner do the hag see them than she say , ` So you have come , Prince Ring ; you must have see to my husband and child . '
Snati saw that she be about to attack them , and sprang at her with a red-hot iron from the fire , while Ring keep pour boil porridge on her without stopping , and in this way they at last get her kill .
Then they burn the old troll and her to ash , and explore the cave , where they find plenty of gold and treasure .
The most valuable of these they carry with them as far a the cliff , and leave them there .
Then they hasten home to the King with his three treasure , where they arrive late on Christmas night , and Ring hand them over to him .
The King be beside himself with joy , and be astonish at how clever a man Ring be in all kind of feat , so that he esteem him still more highly than before , and betroth his daughter to him ; and the feast for this be to last all through Christmastide .
Ring thank the King courteously for this and all his other kindness , and as soon a he have finish eating and drinking in the hall go off to sleep in his own room .
Snati , however , ask permission to sleep in the Prince 's bed for that night , while the Prince should sleep where the Dog usually lay .
Ring say he be welcome to do so , and that he deserve more from him than that come to .
So Snati go up into the Prince 's bed , but after a time he come back , and tell Ring he could go there himself now , but to take care not to meddle with anything that be in the bed .
Now the story come back to Red , who come into the hall and show the King his right arm want the hand , and say that now he could see what kind of a man his intended son-in-law be , for he have do this to him without any cause whatever .
The King become very angry , and say he would soon find out the truth about it , and if Ring have cut off his hand without good cause he should be hang ; but if it be otherwise , then Red should die .
So the King sent for Ring and ask him for what reason he have do this .
Snati , however , have just tell Ring what have happen during the night , and in reply he ask the King to go with him and he would show him something .
The King go with him to his sleeping-room , and saw lie on the bed a man 's hand hold a sword .
` This hand , ' say Ring , ` come over the partition during the night , and be about to run me through in my bed , if I have not defend myself . '
The King answer that in that case he could not blame him for protect his own life , and that Red be well worthy of death .
So Red be hang , and Ring marry the King 's daughter .
The first night that they go to bed together Snati ask Ring to allow him to lie at their foot , and this Ring allow him to do .
During the night he hear a howling and outcry beside them , strike a light in a hurry and saw an ugly dog 's skin lying near him , and a beautiful Prince in the bed .
Ring instantly take the skin and burn it , and then shake the Prince , who be lie unconscious , until he wake up .
The bridegroom then ask his name ; he reply that he be call Ring , and be a King 's son .
In his youth he have lose his mother , and in her place his father have marry a witch , who have lay a spell on him that he should turn into a dog , and never be release from the spell unless a Prince of the same name a himself allow him to sleep at his foot the first night after his marriage .
He add far , ` As soon a she know that you be my namesake she try to get you destroy , so that you might not free me from the spell .
She be the hind that you and your companion chase ; she be the woman that you find in the clearing with the barrel , and the old hag that we just now kill in the cave . '
After the feasting be over the two namesake , along with other men , go to the cliff and bring all the treasure home to the Palace .
Then they go to the island and remove all that be valuable from it .
Ring give to his namesake , whom he have free from the spell , his sister Ingiborg and his father 's kingdom to look after , but he himself stay with his father-in-law the King , and have half the kingdom while he live and the whole of it after his death .
THE SWINEHERD There be once a poor Prince .
He possess a kingdom which , though small , be yet large enough for him to marry on , and marry he wish to be .
Now it be certainly a little audacious of him to venture to say to the Emperor 's daughter , ` Will you marry me ? '
But he do venture to say so , for his name be know far and wide .
There be hundred of princess who would gladly have say ` Yes , ' but would she say the same ?
Well , we shall see .
On the grave of the Prince 's father grow a rose-tree , a very beautiful rose-tree .
It only bloom every five year , and then bore but a single rise , but oh , such a rise !
Its scent be so sweet that when you smelt it you forget all your care and trouble .
And he have also a nightingale which could sing a if all the beautiful melody in the world be shut up in it little throat .
This rise and this nightingale the Princess be to have , and so they be both put into silver casket and send to her .
The Emperor have them bring to him in the great hall , where the Princess be play ` Here come a duke a-riding ' with her lady-in-waiting .
And when she catch sight of the big casket which contain the present , she clap her hand for joy .
` If only it be a little pussy cat ! '
she say .
But the rose-tree with the beautiful rise come out .
` But how prettily it be make ! '
say all the lady-in-waiting .
` It be more than pretty , ' say the Emperor , ` it be charm ! '
But the Princess felt it , and then she almost begin to cry .
` Ugh !
Papa , ' she say , ` it be not artificial , it be REAL ! '
` Ugh ! '
say all the ladies-in-waiting , ` it be real ! '
` Let u see first what be in the other casket before we begin to be angry , ' think the Emperor , and there come out the nightingale .
It sing so beautifully that one could scarcely utter a cross word against it .
` Superbe !
charmant ! '
say the lady-in-waiting , for they all chatter French , each one bad than the other .
` How much the bird remind me of the musical snuff-box of the late Empress ! '
say an old courtier .
` Ah , yes , it be the same tone , the same execution ! '
` Yes , ' say the Emperor ; and then he weep like a little child . '
I hope that this , at least , be not real ? '
ask the Princess .
` Yes , it be a real bird , ' say those who have bring it .
` Then let the bird fly away , ' say the Princess ; and she would not on any account allow the Prince to come .
` But he be nothing daunt .
He paint his face brown and black , draw his cap well over his face , and knock at the door .
` Good-day , Emperor , ' he say .
` Can I get a place here a servant in the castle ? '
` Yes , ' say the Emperor , ` but there be so many who ask for a place that I do n't know whether there will be one for you ; but , still , I will think of you .
Stay , it have just occur to me that I want someone to look after the swine , for I have so very many of them . '
And the Prince get the situation of Imperial Swineherd .
He have a wretched little room close to the pigsty ; here he have to stay , but the whole day he sit work , and when evening be come he have make a pretty little pot .
All round it be little bell , and when the pot boil they jingle most beautifully and play the old tune -- ` Where be Augustus dear ?
Alas !
he 's not here , here , here ! '
But the most wonderful thing be , that when one hold one 's finger in the steam of the pot , then at once one could smell what dinner be ready in any fire-place in the town .
That be indeed something quite different from the rise .
Now the Princess come walk past with all her lady-in-waiting , and when she hear the tune she stand still and her face beam with joy , for she also could play ` Where be Augustus dear ? '
It be the only tune she know , but that she could play with one finger .
` Why , that be what I play ! '
she say .
` He must be a most accomplished Swineherd !
Listen !
Go down and ask him what the instrument cost . '
And one of the lady-in-waiting have to go down ; but she put on wooden clog .
` What will you take for the pot ? '
ask the lady-in-waiting . '
I will have ten kiss from the Princess , ' answer the Swineherd .
` Heaven forbid ! '
say the lady-in-waiting .
` Yes , I will sell it for nothing less , ' reply the Swineherd .
` Well , what do he say ? '
ask the Princess . '
I really hardly like to tell you , ' answer the lady-in-waiting .
` Oh , then you can whisper it to me . '
` He be disoblige ! '
say the Princess , and go away .
But she have only go a few step when the bell ring out so prettily -- ` Where be Augustus dear ?
Alas !
he 's not here , here , here . '
` Listen ! '
say the Princess .
` Ask him whether he will take ten kiss from my ladies-in-waiting . '
` No , thank you , ' say the Swineherd .
` Ten kiss from the Princess , or else I keep my pot . '
` That be very tiresome ! '
say the Princess .
` But you must put yourselves in front of me , so that no one can see . '
And the ladies-in-waiting placed themselves in front and then spread out their dress ; so the Swineherd get his ten kiss , and she get the pot .
What happiness that be !
The whole night and the whole day the pot be make to boil ; there be not a fire-place in the whole town where they do not know what be be cook , whether it be at the chancellor 's or at the shoemaker 's .
The lady-in-waiting dance and clap their hand .
` We know who be go to have soup and pancake ; we know who be go to have porridge and sausage -- be n't it interest ? '
` Yes , very interesting ! '
say the first lady-in-waiting .
` But do n't say anything about it , for I be the Emperor 's daughter . '
` Oh , no , of course we wo n't ! '
say everyone .
The Swineherd -- that be to say , the Prince -LRB- though they do not know he be anything but a true Swineherd -RRB- -- let no day pass without make something , and one day he make a rattle which , when it be turn round , play all the waltz , galops , and polka which have ever be know since the world begin .
` But that be superbe ! '
say the Princess a she pass by . '
I have never hear a more beautiful composition .
Listen !
Go down and ask him what this instrument cost ; but I wo n't kiss him again . '
` He want a hundred kiss from the Princess , ' say the lady-in-waiting who have go down to ask him . '
I believe he be mad ! '
say the Princess , and then she go on ; but she have only go a few step when she stop .
` One ought to encourage art , ' she say . '
I be the Emperor 's daughter !
Tell him he shall have , a before , ten kiss ; the rest he can take from my ladies-in-waiting . '
` But we do n't at all like be kiss by him , ' say the lady-in-waiting .
` That 's nonsense , ' say the Princess ; ` and if I can kiss him , you can too .
Besides , remember that I give you board and lodge . '
So the lady-in-waiting have to go down to him again . '
A hundred kiss from the Princess , ' say he , ` or each keep his own . '
` Put yourselves in front of u , ' she say then ; and so all the ladies-in-waiting put themselves in front , and he begin to kiss the Princess .
` What can that commotion be by the pigsty ? '
ask the Emperor , who be stand on the balcony .
He rub his eye and put on his spectacle .
` Why those be the ladies-in-waiting play their game ; I must go down to them . '
So he take off his shoe , which be shoe though he have tread them down into slipper .
What a hurry he be in , to be sure !
As soon a he come into the yard he walk very softly , and the ladies-in-waiting be so busy count the kiss and see fair play that they never notice the Emperor .
He stand on tiptoe .
` What be that ? '
he say , when he saw the kissing ; and then he throw one of his slipper at their head just a the Swineherd be take his eighty-sixth kiss .
` Be off with you ! '
say the Emperor , for he be very angry .
And the Princess and the Swineherd be drive out of the empire .
Then she stand still and weep ; the Swineherd be scold , and the rain be stream down .
` Alas , what an unhappy creature I be ! '
sob the Princess .
` If only I have take the beautiful Prince !
Alas , how unfortunate I be ! '
And the Swineherd go behind a tree , wash the black and brown off his face , throw away his old clothes , and then step forward in his splendid dress , look so beautiful that the Princess be oblige to courtesy . '
I now come to this .
I despise you ! '
he say .
` You would have nothing to do with a noble Prince ; you do not understand the rise or the nightingale , but you could kiss the Swineherd for the sake of a toy .
This be what you get for it ! '
And he go into his kingdom and shut the door in her face , and she have to stay outside singing -- ` Where 's my Augustus dear ?
Alas !
he 's not here , here , here !
HOW TO TELL A TRUE PRINCESS There be once upon a time a Prince who want to marry a Princess , but she must be a true Princess .
So he travel through the whole world to find one , but there be always something against each .
There be plenty of Princesses , but he could not find out if they be true Princesses .
In every case there be some little defect , which show the genuine article be not yet find .
So he come home again in very low spirit , for he have want very much to have a true Princess .
One night there be a dreadful storm ; it thunder and lighten and the rain stream down in torrent .
It be fearful !
There be a knocking heard at the Palace gate , and the old King go to open it .
There stand a Princess outside the gate ; but oh , in what a sad plight she be from the rain and the storm !
The water be run down from her hair and her dress into the point of her shoe and out at the heel again .
And yet she say she be a true Princess !
` Well , we shall soon find that ! '
think the old Queen .
But she say nothing , and go into the sleeping-room , take off all the bed-clothes , and lay a pea on the bottom of the bed .
Then she put twenty mattress on top of the pea , and twenty eider-down quilt on the top of the mattress .
And this be the bed in which the Princess be to sleep .
The next morning she be ask how she have slept .
` Oh , very badly ! '
say the Princess . '
I scarcely close my eye all night !
I be sure I do n't know what be in the bed .
I lay on something so hard that my whole body be black and blue .
It be dreadful ! '
Now they perceive that she be a true Princess , because she have felt the pea through the twenty mattress and the twenty eider-down quilt .
No one but a true Princess could be so sensitive .
So the Prince marry her , for now he know that at last he have get hold of a true Princess .
And the pea be put into the Royal Museum , where it be still to be see if no one have steal it .
Now this be a true story .
THE BLUE MOUNTAINS There be once a Scotsman and an Englishman and an Irishman serving in the army together , who take it into their head to run away on the first opportunity they could get .
The chance come and they take it .
They go on travel for two day through a great forest , without food or drink , and without come across a single house , and every night they have to climb up into the tree through fear of the wild beast that be in the wood .
On the second morning the Scotsman saw from the top of his tree a great castle far away .
He say to himself that he would certainly die if he stay in the forest without anything to eat but the root of grass , which would not keep him alive very long .
As soon , then , a he get down out of the tree he set off towards the castle , without so much a tell his companion that he have see it at all ; perhaps the hunger and want they have suffer have change their nature so much that the one do not care what become of the other if he could save himself .
He travel on most of the day , so that it be quite late when he reach the castle , and to his great disappointment find nothing but close door and no smoke rise from the chimney .
He think there be nothing for it but to die after all , and have lie down beside the wall , when he hear a window be open high above him .
At this he look up , and saw the most beautiful woman he have ever set eye on .
` Oh , it be Fortune that have send you to me , ' he say .
` It be indeed , ' say she .
` What be you in need of , or what have send you here ? '
` Necessity , ' say he . '
I be die for want of food and drink . '
` Come inside , then , ' she say ; ` there be plenty of both here . '
Accordingly he go in to where she be , and she open a large room for him , where he saw a number of men lie asleep .
She then set food before him , and after that show him to the room where the others be .
He lay down on one of the bed and fell sound asleep .
And now we must go back to the two that he leave behind him in the wood .
When nightfall and the time of the wild beast come upon these , the Englishman happen to climb up into the very same tree on which the Scotsman be when he get a sight of the castle ; and as soon a the day begin to dawn and the Englishman look to the four quarter of heaven , what do he see but the castle too !
Off he go without say a word to the Irishman , and everything happen to him just a it have do to the Scotsman .
The poor Irishman be now leave all alone , and do not know where the others have go to , so he just stay where he be , very sad and miserable .
When night come he climb up into the same tree a the Englishman have be on the night before .
As soon a day come he also saw the castle , and set out towards it ; but when he reach it he could see no sign of fire or living be about it .
Before long , however , he hear the window open above his head , look up , and behold the most beautiful woman he have ever see .
He ask if she would give him food and drink , and she answer kindly and heartily that she would , if he would only come inside .
This he do very willingly , and she set before him food and drink that he have never see the like of before .
In the room there be a bed , with diamond ring hang at every loop of the curtain , and everything that be in the room besides astonish him so much that he actually forget that he be hungry .
When she saw that he be not eat at all , she ask him what he want yet , to which he reply that he would neither eat nor drink until he know who she be , or where she come from , or who have put her there . '
I shall tell you that , ' say she . '
I be an enchanted Princess , and my father have promise that the man who release me from the spell shall have the third of his kingdom while he be alive , and the whole of it after he be dead , and marry me as well .
If ever I saw a man who look likely to do this , you be the one .
I have be here for sixteen year now , and no one who ever come to the castle have ask me who I be , except yourself .
Every other man that have come , so long a I have be here , lie asleep in the big room down there . '
` Tell me , then , ' say the Irishman , ` what be the spell that have be lay on you , and how you can be free from it . '
` There be a little room there , ' say the Princess , ` and if I could get a man to stay in it from ten o'clock till midnight for three night on end I should be free from the spell . ' '
I be the man for you , then , ' say he ; ' I will take on hand to do it . '
Thereupon she bring him a pipe and tobacco , and he go into the room ; but before long he hear a hammering and knock on the outside of the door , and be tell to open it . '
I wo n't , ' he say .
The next moment the door come fly in , and those outside along with it .
They knock him down , and kick him , and kneel on his body till it come to midnight ; but as soon a the cock crew they all disappear .
The Irishman be little more than alive by this time .
As soon a daylight appear the Princess come , and find him lie full length on the floor , unable to speak a word .
She take a bottle , rub him from head to foot with something from it , and thereupon he be as sound a ever ; but after what he have get that night he be very unwilling to try it a second time .
The Princess , however , entreat him to stay , say that the next night would not be so bad , and in the end he give in and stay .
When it be get near midnight he hear them order him to open the door , and there be three of them for every one that there have be the previous evening .
He do not make the slight movement to go out to them or to open the door , but before long they break it up , and be in on top of him .
They lay hold of him , and keep throw him between them up to the ceiling , or jump above him , until the cock crew , when they all disappear .
When day come the Princess go to the room to see if he be still alive , and take the bottle put it to his nostril , which soon bring him to himself .
The first thing he say then be that he be a fool to go on get himself kill for anyone he ever saw , and be determine to be off and stay there no longer , When the Princess learn his intention she entreat him to stay , remind him that another night would free her from the spell .
` Besides , ' she say , ` if there be a single spark of life in you when the day come , the stuff that be in this bottle will make you as sound a ever you be . '
With all this the Irishman decide to stay ; but that night there be three at him for every one that be there the two night before , and it look very unlikely that he would be alive in the morning after all that he get .
When morning dawn , and the Princess come to see if he be still alive , she find him lie on the floor a if dead .
She try to see if there be breath in him , but could not quite make it out .
Then she put her hand on his pulse , and find a faint movement in it .
Accordingly she pour what be in the bottle on him , and before long he rise up on his foot , and be as well a ever he be .
So that business be finish , and the Princess be free from the spell .
The Princess then tell the Irishman that she must go away for the present , but would return for him in a few day in a carriage draw by four grey horse .
He tell her to ` be aisy , ' and not speak like that to him . '
I have pay dear for you for the last three night , ' he say , ` if I have to part with you now ; ' but in the twinkling of an eye she have disappear .
He do not know what to do with himself when he saw that she be go , but before she go she have give him a little rod , with which he could , when he please , waken the men who have be sleep there , some of them for sixteen year .
After be thus leave alone , he go in and stretch himself on three chair that be in the room , when what do he see come in at the door but a little fair-haired lad .
` Where do you come from , my lad ? '
say the Irishman . '
I come to make ready your food for you , ' say he .
` Who tell you to do that ? '
say the Irishman .
` My mistress , ' answer the lad -- ` the Princess that be under the spell and be now free . '
By this the Irishman know that she have send the lad to wait on him .
The lad also tell him that his mistress wish him to be ready next morning at nine o'clock , when she would come for him with the carriage , a she have promise .
He be greatly pleased at this , and next morning , when the time be draw near , go out into the garden ; but the little fair-haired lad take a big pin out of his pocket , and stick it into the back of the Irishman 's coat without his notice it , whereupon he fell sound asleep .
Before long the Princess come with the carriage and four horse , and ask the lad whether his master be awake .
He say that he be n't .
` It be bad for him , ' say she , ` when the night be not long enough for him to sleep .
Tell him that if he do n't meet me at this time to-morrow it be not likely that he will ever see me again all his life . '
As soon a she be go the lad take the pin out of his master 's coat , who instantly awake .
The first word he say to the lad be , ` Have you see her ? '
` Yes , ' say he , ` and she bid me tell you that if you do n't meet her at nine o'clock to-morrow you will never see her again . '
He be very sorry when he hear this , and could not understand why the sleep should have fall upon him just when she be come .
He decide , however , to go early to bed that night , in order to rise in time nest morning , and so he do .
When it be get near nine o'clock he go out to the garden to wait till she come , and the fair-haired lad along with him ; but as soon a the lad get the chance he stick the pin into his master 's coat again and he fell asleep a before .
Precisely at nine o'clock come the Princess in the carriage with four horse , and ask the lad if his master have get up yet ; but he say ` No , he be asleep , just a he be the day before . '
` Dear !
dear ! '
say the Princess , ' I be sorry for him .
Was the sleep he have last night not enough for him ?
Tell him that he will never see me here again ; and here be a sword that you will give him in my name , and my blessing along with it . '
With this she go off , and as soon a she have go the lad take the pin out of his master 's coat .
He awake instantly , and the first word he say be , ` Have you see her ? '
The lad say that he have , and there be the sword she have leave for him .
The Irishman be ready to kill the lad out of sheer vexation , but when he give a glance over his shoulder not a trace of the fair-haired lad be leave .
Being thus leave all alone , he think of go into the room where all the men be lie asleep , and there among the rest he find his two comrade who have desert along with him .
Then he remember what the Princess have tell him -- that he have only to touch them with the rod she have give him and they would all awake ; and the first he touch be his own comrade .
They start to their foot at once , and he give them a much silver and gold a they could carry when they go away .
There be plenty to do before he get all the others waken , for the two door of the castle be crowd with them all the day long .
The loss of the Princess , however , keep rankle in his mind day and night , till finally he think he would go about the world to see if he could find anyone to give him news of her .
So he take the best horse in the stable and set out .
Three year he spend travel through forest and wilderness , but could find no one able to tell him anything of the Princess .
At last he fell into so great despair that he think he would put an end to his own life , and for this purpose lay hold of the sword that she have give him by the hand of the fair-haired lad ; but on draw it from it sheath he notice that there be some write on one side of the blade .
He look at this , and read there , ` You will find me in the Blue Mountains . '
This make him take heart again , and he give up the idea of kill himself , think that he would go on in hope of meet some one who could tell him where the Blue Mountains be .
After he have go a long way without think where he be go , he saw at last a light far away , and make straight for it .
On reach it he find it come from a little house , and as soon a the man inside hear the noise of the horse 's foot he come out to see who be there .
Seeing a stranger on horseback , he ask what bring him there and where he be go . '
I have live here , ' say he , ` for three hundred year , and all that time I have not see a single human be but yourself . ' '
I have be go about for the last three year , ' say the Irishman , ` to see if I could find anyone who can tell me where the Blue Mountains be . '
` Come in , ' say the old man , ` and stay with me all night .
I have a book which contain the history of the world , which I shall go through to-night , and if there be such a place a the Blue Mountains in it we shall find it out . '
The Irishman stay there all night , and as soon a morning come rise to go .
The old man say he have not go to sleep all night for go through the book , but there be not a word about the Blue Mountains in it .
` But I 'll tell you what , ' he say , ` if there be such a place on earth at all , I have a brother who live nine hundred mile from here , and he be sure to know where they be , if anyone in this world do . '
The Irishman answer that he could never go these nine hundred mile , for his horse be give in already .
` That do n't matter , ' say the old man ; ' I can do good than that .
I have only to blow my whistle and you will be at my brother 's house before nightfall . '
So he blow the whistle , and the Irishman do not know where on earth he be until he find himself at the other old man 's door , who also tell him that it be three hundred year since he have see anyone , and ask him where he be go . '
I be go to see if I can find anyone that can tell me where the Blue Mountains be , ' he say .
` If you will stay with me to-night , ' say the old man , ' I have a book of the history of the world , and I shall know where they be before daylight , if there be such a place in it at all . '
He stay there all night , but there be not a word in the book about the Blue Mountains .
Seeing that he be rather cast down , the old man tell him that he have a brother nine hundred mile away , and that if information could be get about them from anyone it would be from him ; ` and I will enable you , ' he say , ` to reach the place where he live before night . '
So he blow his whistle , and the Irishman land at the brother 's house before nightfall .
When the old man saw him he say he have not see a single man for three hundred year , and be very much surprise to see anyone come to him now .
` Where be you go to ? '
he say . '
I be go about ask for the Blue Mountains , ' say the Irishman .
` The Blue Mountains ? '
say the old man .
` Yes , ' say the Irishman . '
I never hear the name before ; but if they do exist I shall find them out .
I be master of all the bird in the world , and have only to blow my whistle and every one will come to me .
I shall then ask each of them to tell where it come from , and if there be any way of find out the Blue Mountains that be it . '
So he blow his whistle , and when he blow it then all the bird of the world begin to gather .
The old man question each of them a to where they have come from , but there be not one of them that have come from the Blue Mountains .
After he have run over them all , however , he miss a big Eagle that be want , and wonder that it have not come .
Soon afterwards he saw something big coming towards him , darken the sky .
It keep come nearer and grow big , and what be this after all but the Eagle ?
When she arrive the old man scold her , and ask what have keep her so long behind . '
I could n't help it , ' she say ; ' I have more than twenty time far to come than any bird that have come here to-day . '
` Where have you come from , then ? '
say the old man .
` From the Blue Mountains , ' say she .
` Indeed ! '
say the old man ; and what be they do there ? '
` They be make ready this very day , ' say the Eagle , ` for the marriage of the daughter of the King of the Blue Mountains .
For three year now she have refuse to marry anyone whatsoever , until she should give up all hope of the come of the man who release her from the spell .
Now she can wait no longer , for three year be the time that she agree with her father to remain without marry . '
The Irishman know that it be for himself she have be wait so long , but he be unable to make any good of it , for he have no hope of reach the Blue Mountains all his life .
The old man notice how sad he grow , and ask the Eagle what she would take for carry this man on her back to the Blue Mountains . '
I must have threescore cattle kill , ' say she , ` and cut up into quarter , and every time I look over my shoulder he must throw one of them into my mouth . '
As soon a the Irishman and the old man hear her demand they go out hunting , and before even they have kill three-score cattle .
They make quarter of them , a the Eagle tell them , and then the old man ask her to lie down , till they would get it all heap up on her back .
First of all , though , they have to get a ladder of fourteen step , to enable them to get on to the Eagle 's back , and there they pile up the meat as well a they could .
Then the old man tell the Irishman to mount , and to remember to throw a quarter of beef to her every time she look round .
He go up , and the old man give the Eagle the word to be off , which she instantly obey ; and every time she turn her head the Irishman throw a quarter of beef into her mouth .
As they come near the border of the kingdom of the Blue Mountains , however , the beef be do , and , when the Eagle look over her shoulder , what be the Irishman at but throw the stone between her tail and her neck !
At this she turn a complete somersault , and throw the Irishman off into the sea , where he fell into the bay that be right in front of the King 's Palace .
Fortunately the point of his toe just touch the bottom , and he manage to get ashore .
When he go up into the town all the street be gleam with light , and the wedding of the Princess be just about to begin .
He go into the first house he come to , and this happen to be the house of the King 's hen-wife .
He ask the old woman what be cause all the noise and light in the town .
` The Princess , ' say she , ` be go to be marry to-night against her will , for she have be expect every day that the man who free her from the spell would come . '
` There be a guinea for you , ' say he ; ` go and bring her here . '
The old woman go , and soon return along with the Princess .
She and the Irishman recognise each other , and be marry , and have a great wedding that last for a year and a day .
THE TINDER-BOX A soldier come march along the high road -- leave , right !
A left , right !
He have his knapsack on his back and a sword by his side , for he have be to the war and be now return home .
An old Witch meet him on the road .
She be very ugly to look at : her under-lip hung down to her breast .
` Good evening , Soldier ! '
she say .
` What a fine sword and knapsack you have !
You be something like a soldier !
You ought to have as much money a you would like to carry ! '
` Thank you , old Witch , ' say the Soldier .
` Do you see that great tree there ? '
say the Witch , point to a tree beside them .
` It be hollow within .
You must climb up to the top , and then you will see a hole through which you can let yourself down into the tree .
I will tie a rope round your waist , so that I may be able to pull you up again when you call . '
` What shall I do down there ? '
ask the Soldier .
` Get money ! '
answer the Witch .
` Listen !
When you reach the bottom of the tree you will find yourself in a large hall ; it be light there , for there be more than three hundred lamp burn .
Then you will see three door , which you can open -- the key be in the lock .
If you go into the first room , you will see a great chest in the middle of the floor with a dog sit upon it ; he have eye as large a saucer , but you need n't trouble about him .
I will give you my blue-check apron , which you must spread out on the floor , and then go back quickly and fetch the dog and set him upon it ; open the chest and take as much money a you like .
It be copper there .
If you would rather have silver , you must go into the next room , where there be a dog with eye as large a mill-wheels .
But do n't take any notice of him ; just set him upon my apron , and help yourself to the money .
If you prefer gold , you can get that too , if you go into the third room , and as much a you like to carry .
But the dog that guard the chest there have eye as large a the Round Tower at Copenhagen !
He be a savage dog , I can tell you ; but you need n't be afraid of him either .
Only , put him on my apron and he wo n't touch you , and you can take out of the chest a much gold a you like ! '
` Come , this be not bad ! '
say the Soldier .
` But what be I to give you , old Witch ; for surely you be not go to do this for nothing ? '
` Yes , I be ! '
reply the Witch .
` Not a single farthing will I take !
For me you shall bring nothing but an old tinder-box which my grandmother forget last time she be down there . '
` Well , tie the rope round my waist !
` say the Soldier .
` Here it be , ' say the Witch , ` and here be my blue-check apron . '
Then the Soldier climb up the tree , let himself down through the hole , and find himself stand , a the Witch have say , underground in the large hall , where the three hundred lamp be burn .
Well , he open the first door .
Ugh !
there sit the dog with eye as big a saucer glare at him .
` You be a fine fellow ! '
say the Soldier , and put him on the Witch 's apron , take as much copper a his pocket could hold ; then he shut the chest , put the dog on it again , and go into the second room .
Sure enough there sit the dog with eye as large a mill-wheels .
` You have well not look at me so hard ! '
say the Soldier .
` Your eye will come out of their socket ! '
And then he set the dog on the apron .
When he saw all the silver in the chest , he throw away the copper he have take , and fill his pocket and knapsack with nothing but silver .
Then he go into the third room .
Horrors !
the dog there have two eye , each as large a the Round Tower at Copenhagen , spin round in his head like wheel .
` Good evening ! '
say the Soldier and salute , for he have never see a dog like this before .
But when he have examine him more closely , he think to himself : ` Now then , I 've have enough of this ! '
and put him down on the floor , and open the chest .
Heavens !
what a heap of gold there be !
With all that he could buy up the whole town , and all the sugar pig , all the tin soldier , whip and rocking-horses in the whole world .
Now he throw away all the silver with which he have fill his pocket and knapsack , and fill them with gold instead -- yes , all his pocket , his knapsack , cap and boot even , so that he could hardly walk .
Now he be rich indeed .
He put the dog back upon the chest , shut the door , and then call up through the tree : ` Now pull me up again , old Witch ! '
` Have you get the tinder-box also ? '
ask the Witch .
` Botheration ! '
say the Soldier , ' I have clean forgotten it ! '
And then he go back and fetch it .
The Witch pull him up , and there he stand again on the high road , with pocket , knapsack , cap and boot fill with gold .
` What do you want to do with the tinder-box ? '
ask the Soldier .
` That do n't matter to you , ' reply the Witch .
` You have get your money , give me my tinder-box . '
` We 'll see ! '
say the Soldier .
` Tell me at once what you want to do with it , or I will draw my sword , and cut off your head ! '
` No ! '
scream the Witch .
The Soldier immediately cut off her head .
That be the end of her !
But he tie up all his gold in her apron , sling it like a bundle over his shoulder , put the tinder-box in his pocket , and set out towards the town .
It be a splendid town !
He turn into the fine inn , order the best chamber and his favourite dinner ; for now that he have so much money he be really rich .
It certainly occur to the servant who have to clean his boot that they be astonishingly old boot for such a rich lord .
But that be because he have not yet buy new one ; next day he appear in respectable boot and fine clothes .
Now , instead of a common soldier he have become a noble lord , and the people tell him about all the grand doings of the town and the King , and what a beautiful Princess his daughter be .
` How can one get to see her ? '
ask the Soldier .
` She be never to be see at all ! '
they tell him ; ` she live in a great copper castle , surround by many wall and tower !
No one except the King may go in or out , for it be prophesy that she will marry a common soldier , and the King can not submit to that . ' '
I should very much like to see her , ' think the Soldier ; but he could not get permission .
Now he live very gaily , go to the theatre , drive in the King 's garden , and give the poor a great deal of money , which be very nice of him ; he have experience in former time how hard it be not to have a farthing in the world .
Now he be rich , wore fine clothes , and make many friend , who all say that he be an excellent man , a real nobleman .
And the Soldier like that .
But a he be always spend money , and never make any more , at last the day come when he have nothing leave but two shilling , and he have to leave the beautiful room in which he have be live , and go into a little attic under the roof , and clean his own boot , and mend them with a darning-needle .
None of his friend come to visit him there , for there be too many stair to climb .
It be a dark evening , and he could not even buy a light .
But all at once it flash across him that there be a little end of tinder in the tinder-box , which he have take from the hollow tree into which the Witch have help him down .
He find the box with the tinder in it ; but just a he be kindle a light , and have strike a spark out of the tinder-box , the door burst open , and the dog with eye as large a saucer , which he have see down in the tree , stand before him and say : ` What do my lord command ? '
` What 's the meaning of this ? '
exclaim the Soldier .
` This be a pretty kind of tinder-box , if I can get whatever I want like this .
Get me money ! '
he cry to the dog , and hey , presto !
he be off and back again , hold a great purse full of money in his mouth .
Now the Soldier know what a capital tinder-box this be .
If he rub once , the dog that sit on the chest of copper appear ; if he rub twice , there come the dog that watch over the silver chest ; and if he rub three time , the one that guard the gold appear .
Now , the Soldier go down again to his beautiful room , and appear once more in splendid clothes .
All his friend immediately recognise him again , and pay him great court .
One day he think to himself : ` It be very strange that no one can get to see the Princess .
They all say she be very pretty , but what 's the use of that if she have to sit for ever in the great copper castle with all the tower ?
Can I not manage to see her somehow ?
Where be my tinder-box ? '
and so he strike a spark , and , presto !
there come the dog with eye as large a saucer .
` It be the middle of the night , I know , ' say the Soldier ; ` but I should very much like to see the Princess for a moment . '
The dog be already outside the door , and before the Soldier could look round , in he come with the Princess .
She be lie asleep on the dog 's back , and be so beautiful that anyone could see she be a real Princess .
The Soldier really could not refrain from kiss her -- he be such a thorough Soldier .
Then the dog run back with the Princess .
But when it be morning , and the King and Queen be drink tea , the Princess say that the night before she have have such a strange dream about a dog and a Soldier : she have ride on the dog 's back , and the Soldier have kiss her .
` That be certainly a fine story , ' say the Queen .
But the next night one of the lady-in-waiting be to watch at the Princess 's bed , to see if it be only a dream , or if it have actually happen .
The Soldier have an overpower longing to see the Princess again , and so the dog come in the middle of the night and fetch her , run as fast a he could .
But the lady-in-waiting slip on india-rubber shoe and follow them .
When she saw them disappear into a large house , she think to herself : ` Now I know where it be ; ` and make a great cross on the door with a piece of chalk .
Then she go home and lay down , and the dog come back also , with the Princess .
But when he saw that a cross have be make on the door of the house where the Soldier live , he take a piece of chalk also , and make cross on all the door in the town ; and that be very clever , for now the lady-in-waiting could not find the right house , a there be cross on all the door .
Early next morning the King , Queen , lady-in-waiting , and officer come out to see where the Princess have be .
` There it be ! '
say the King , when he saw the first door with a cross on it .
` No , there it be , my dear ! '
say the Queen , when she likewise saw a door with a cross .
` But here be one , and there be another ! '
they all exclaim ; wherever they look there be a cross on the door .
Then they realise that the sign would not help them at all .
But the Queen be an extremely clever woman , who could do a great deal more than just drive in a coach .
She take her great golden scissors , cut up a piece of silk , and make a pretty little bag of it .
This she fill with the fine buckwheat grain , and tie it round the Princess ' neck ; this do , she cut a little hole in the bag , so that the grain would strew the whole road wherever the Princess go .
In the night the dog come again , take the Princess on his back and run away with her to the Soldier , who be very much in love with her , and would have like to have be a Prince , so that he might have have her for his wife .
The dog do not notice how the grain be strewn right from the castle to the Soldier 's window , where he run up the wall with the Princess .
In the morning the King and the Queen saw plainly where their daughter have be , and they take the Soldier and put him into prison .
There he sit .
Oh , how dark and dull it be there !
And they tell him : ` To-morrow you be to be hang . '
Hearing that do not exactly cheer him , and he have leave his tinder-box in the inn .
Next morning he could see through the iron grating in front of his little window how the people be hurry out of the town to see him hang .
He hear the drum and saw the soldier march ; all the people be run to and fro .
Just below his window be a shoemaker 's apprentice , with leather apron and shoe ; he be skip along so merrily that one of his shoe fly off and fell against the wall , just where the Soldier be sit peep through the iron grating .
` Oh , shoemaker 's boy , you need n't be in such a hurry ! '
say the Soldier to him .
` There 's nothing go on till I arrive .
But if you will run back to the house where I live , and fetch me my tinder-box , I will give you four shilling .
But you must put your best foot foremost . '
The shoemaker 's boy be very willing to earn four shilling , and fetch the tinder-box , give it to the Soldier , and -- yes -- now you shall hear .
Outside the town a great scaffold have be erect , and all round be stand the soldier , and hundred of thousand of people .
The King and Queen be sit on a magnificent throne opposite the judge and the whole council .
The Soldier be already stand on the top of the ladder ; but when they want to put the rope round his neck , he say that the fulfilment of one innocent request be always grant to a poor criminal before he undergo his punishment .
He would so much like to smoke a small pipe of tobacco ; it would be his last pipe in this world .
The King could not refuse him this , and so he take out his tinder-box , and rub it once , twice , three time .
And lo , and behold I there stand all three dog -- the one with eye as large a saucer , the second with eye as large a mill-wheels , and the third with eye each as large a the Round Tower of Copenhagen .
` Help me now , so that I may not be hang ! '
cry the Soldier .
And thereupon the dog fell upon the judge and the whole council , seize some by the leg , others by the nose , and throw them so high into the air that they fell and be smash into piece . '
I wo n't stand this ! '
say the King ; but the large dog seize him too , and the Queen as well , and throw them up after the others .
This frighten the soldier , and all the people cry : ` Good Soldier , you shall be our King , and marry the beautiful Princess ! '
Then they put the Soldier into the King 's coach , and the three dog dance in front , cry ` Hurrah ! '
And the boy whistle and the soldier present arm .
The Princess come out of the copper castle , and become Queen ; and that please her very much .
The wedding festivity last for eight day , and the dog sit at table and make eye at everyone .
THE WITCH IN THE STONE BOAT -LRB- 31 -RRB- -LRB- 31 -RRB- From the Icelandic .
There be once a King and a Queen , and they have a son call Sigurd , who be very strong and active , and good-looking .
When the King come to be bow down with the weight of year he speak to his son , and say that now it be time for him to look out for a fitting match for himself , for he do not know how long he might last now , and he would like to see him married before he die .
Sigurd be not averse to this , and ask his father where he think it best to look for a wife .
The King answer that in a certain country there be a King who have a beautiful daughter , and he think it would be most desirable if Sigurd could get her .
So the two part , and Sigurd prepare for the journey , and go to where his father have direct him .
He come to the King and ask his daughter 's hand , which he readily grant him , but only on the condition that he should remain there as long a he could , for the King himself be not strong and not very able to govern his kingdom .
Sigurd accept this condition , but add that he would have to get leave to go home again to his own country when he hear news of his father 's death .
After that Sigurd marry the Princess , and help his father-in-law to govern the kingdom .
He and the Princess love each other dearly , and after a year a son come to them , who be two year old when word come to Sigurd that his father be dead .
Sigurd now prepare to return home with his wife and child , and go on board ship to go by sea .
They have sail for several day , when the breeze suddenly fell , and there come a dead calm , at a time when they need only one day 's voyage to reach home .
Sigurd and his Queen be one day on deck , when most of the others on the ship have fall asleep .
There they sit and talk for a while , and have their little son along with them .
After a time Sigurd become so heavy with sleep that he could no longer keep awake , so he go below and lay down , leave the Queen alone on the deck , play with her son .
A good while after Sigurd have go below the Queen saw something black on the sea , which seem to be come nearer .
As it approach she could make out that it be a boat , and could see the figure of some one sit in it and row it .
At last the boat come alongside the ship , and now the Queen saw that it be a stone boat , out of which there come up on board the ship a fearfully ugly Witch .
The Queen be more frightened than word can describe , and could neither speak a word nor move from the place so a to awaken the King or the sailor .
The Witch come right up to the Queen , take the child from her and lay it on the deck ; then she take the Queen , and strip her of all her fine clothes , which she proceed to put on herself , and look then like a human be .
Last of all she take the Queen , put her into the boat , and say -- ` This spell I lay upon you , that you slacken not your course until you come to my brother in the Underworld . '
The Queen sit stun and motionless , but the boat at once shoot away from the ship with her , and before long she be out of sight .
When the boat could no longer be see the child begin to cry , and though the Witch try to quiet it she could not manage it ; so she go below to where the King be sleep with the child on her arm , and awaken him , scold him for leave them alone on deck , while he and all the crew be asleep .
It be great carelessness of him , she say , to leave no one to watch the ship with her .
Sigurd be greatly surprised to hear his Queen scold him so much , for she have never say an angry word to him before ; but he think it be quite excusable in this case , and try to quiet the child along with her , but it be no use .
Then he go and waken the sailor , and bid them hoist the sail , for a breeze have spring up and be blow straight towards the harbour .
They soon reach the land which Sigurd be to rule over , and find all the people sorrowful for the old King 's death , but they become glad when they get Sigurd back to the Court , and make him King over them .
The King 's son , however , hardly ever stop cry from the time he have be take from his mother on the deck of the ship , although he have always be such a good child before , so that at last the King have to get a nurse for him -- one of the maid of the Court .
As soon a the child get into her charge he stop cry , and behave well a before .
After the sea-voyage it seem to the King that the Queen have alter very much in many way , and not for the good .
He think her much more haughty and stubborn and difficult to deal with than she use to be .
Before long others begin to notice this as well a the King .
In the Court there be two young fellow , one of eighteen year old , the other of nineteen , who be very fond of play chess , and often sit long inside play at it .
Their room be next the Queen 's , and often during the day they hear the Queen talk .
One day they pay more attention than usual when they hear her talk , and put their ear close to a crack in the wall between the room , and hear the Queen say quite plainly , ` When I yawn a little , then I be a nice little maiden ; when I yawn half-way , then I be half a troll ; and when I yawn fully , then I be a troll altogether . '
As she say this she yawn tremendously , and in a moment have put on the appearance of a fearfully ugly troll .
Then there come up through the floor of the room a three-headed Giant with a trough full of meat , who salute her a his sister and set down the trough before her .
She begin to eat out of it , and never stop till she have finish it .
The young fellow saw all this go on , but do not hear the two of them say anything to each other .
They be astonish though at how greedily the Queen devour the meat , and how much she ate of it , and be no longer surprise that she take so little when she sit at table with the King .
As soon a she have finish it the Giant disappear with the trough by the same way a he have come , and the Queen return to her human shape .
Now we must go back to the King 's son after he have be put in charge of the nurse .
One evening , after she have lit a candle and be hold the child , several plank spring up in the floor of the room , and out at the opening come a beautiful woman dress in white , with an iron belt round her waist , to which be fasten an iron chain that go down into the ground .
The woman come up to the nurse , take the child from her , and press it to her breast ; then she give it back to the nurse and return by the same way a she have come , and the floor close over her again .
Although the woman have not speak a single word to her , the nurse be very much frighten , but tell no one about it .
Next even the same thing happen again , just a before , but a the woman be go away she say in a sad tone , ` Two be go , and one only be leave , ' and then disappear a before .
The nurse be still more frightened when she hear the woman say this , and think that perhaps some danger be hang over the child , though she have no ill-opinion of the unknown woman , who , indeed , have behave towards the child a if it be her own .
The most mysterious thing be the woman say ` and only one be leave ; ' but the nurse guess that this must mean that only one day be leave , since she have come for two day already .
At last the nurse make up her mind to go to the King , and tell him the whole story , and ask him to be present in person next day about the time when the woman usually come .
The King promise to do so , and come to the nurse 's room a little before the time , and sit down on a chair with his drawn sword in his hand .
Soon after the plank in the floor spring up a before , and the woman come up , dress in white , with the iron belt and chain .
The King saw at once that it be his own Queen , and immediately hew asunder the iron chain that be fasten to the belt .
This be follow by such noise and crashings down in the earth that all the King 's Palace shook , so that no one expect anything else than to see every bit of it shake to piece .
At last , however , the noise and shake stop , and they begin to come to themselves again .
The King and Queen embrace each other , and she tell him the whole story -- how the Witch come to the ship when they be all asleep and send her off in the boat .
After she have go so far that she could not see the ship , she sail on through darkness until she land beside a three-headed Giant .
The Giant wish her to marry him , but she refuse ; whereupon he shut her up by herself , and tell her she would never get free until she consent .
After a time she begin to plan how to get her freedom , and at last tell him that she would consent if he would allow her to visit her son on earth three day on end .
This he agree to , but put on her this iron belt and chain , the other end of which he fasten round his own waist , and the great noise that be hear when the King cut the chain must have be cause by the Giant 's fall down the underground passage when the chain give way so suddenly .
The Giant 's dwelling , indeed , be right under the Palace , and the terrible shaking must have be cause by him in his death-throes .
The King now understand how the Queen he have have for some time past have be so ill-tempered .
He at once have a sack drawn over her head and make her be stone to death , and after that torn in piece by untamed horse .
The two young fellow also tell now what they have hear and see in the Queen 's room , for before this they have be afraid to say anything about it , on account of the Queen 's power .
The real Queen be now restore to all her dignity , and be beloved by all .
The nurse be marry to a nobleman , and the King and Queen give her splendid present .
THUMBELINA There be once a woman who want to have quite a tiny , little child , but she do not know where to get one from .
So one day she go to an old Witch and say to her : ' I should so much like to have a tiny , little child ; can you tell me where I can get one ? '
` Oh , we have just get one ready ! '
say the Witch .
` Here be a barley-corn for you , but it 's not the kind the farmer sow in his field , or feed the cock and hen with , I can tell you .
Put it in a flower-pot , and then you will see something happen . '
` Oh , thank you ! '
say the woman , and give the Witch a shilling , for that be what it cost .
Then she go home and plant the barley-corn ; immediately there grow out of it a large and beautiful flower , which look like a tulip , but the petal be tightly close a if it be still only a bud .
` What a beautiful flower ! '
exclaim the woman , and she kiss the red and yellow petal ; but a she kiss them the flower burst open .
It be a real tulip , such a one can see any day ; but in the middle of the blossom , on the green velvety petal , sit a little girl , quite tiny , trim , and pretty .
She be scarcely half a thumb in height ; so they call her Thumbelina .
An elegant polish walnut-shell serve Thumbelina a a cradle , the blue petal of a violet be her mattress , and a rose-leaf her coverlid .
There she lay at night , but in the day-time she use to play about on the table ; here the woman have put a bowl , surround by a ring of flower , with their stalk in water , in the middle of which float a great tulip pedal , and on this Thumbelina sit , and sail from one side of the bowl to the other , row herself with two white horse-hairs for oar .
It be such a pretty sight !
She could sing , too , with a voice more soft and sweet than have ever be hear before .
One night , when she be lie in her pretty little bed , an old toad crept in through a broken pane in the window .
She be very ugly , clumsy , and clammy ; she hop on to the table where Thumbelina lay asleep under the red rose-leaf .
` This would make a beautiful wife for my son , ' say the toad , take up the walnut-shell , with Thumbelina inside , and hop with it through the window into the garden .
There flow a great wide stream , with slippery and marshy bank ; here the toad live with her son .
Ugh !
how ugly and clammy he be , just like his mother !
` Croak , croak , croak ! '
be all he could say when he saw the pretty little girl in the walnut-shell .
` Do n't talk so load , or you 'll wake her , ' say the old toad .
` She might escape u even now ; she be as light a a feather .
We will put her at once on a broad water-lily leaf in the stream .
That will be quite an island for her ; she be so small and light .
She ca n't run away from u there , whilst we be prepare the guest-chamber under the marsh where she shall live . '
Outside in the brook grow many water-lilies , with broad green leaf , which look a if they be swim about on the water .
The leaf farthest away be the large , and to this the old toad swam with Thumbelina in her walnut-shell .
The tiny Thumbelina wake up very early in the morning , and when she saw where she be she begin to cry bitterly ; for on every side of the great green leaf be water , and she could not get to the land .
The old toad be down under the marsh , decorate her room with rush and yellow marigold leaf , to make it very grand for her new daughter-in-law ; then she swim out with her ugly son to the leaf where Thumbelina lay .
She want to fetch the pretty cradle to put it into her room before Thumbelina herself come there .
The old toad bow low in the water before her , and say : ` Here be my son ; you shall marry him , and live in great magnificence down under the marsh . '
` Croak , croak , croak ! '
be all that the son could say .
Then they take the neat little cradle and swim away with it ; but Thumbelina sit alone on the great green leaf and wept , for she do not want to live with the clammy toad , or marry her ugly son .
The little fish swim about under the water have see the toad quite plainly , and hear what she have say ; so they put up their head to see the little girl .
When they saw her , they think her so pretty that they be very sorry she should go down with the ugly toad to live .
No ; that must not happen .
They assemble in the water round the green stalk which support the leaf on which she be sit , and nibble the stem in two .
Away float the leaf down the stream , bear Thumbelina far beyond the reach of the toad .
On she sail past several town , and the little bird sit in the bush saw her , and sang , ` What a pretty little girl ! '
The leaf float far and far away ; thus Thumbelina leave her native land .
A beautiful little white butterfly flutter above her , and at last settle on the leaf .
Thumbelina please him , and she , too , be delight , for now the toad could not reach her , and it be so beautiful where she be travel ; the sun shone on the water and make it sparkle like the bright silver .
She take off her sash , and tie one end round the butterfly ; the other end she fasten to the leaf , so that now it glide along with her faster than ever .
A great cockchafer come fly past ; he catch sight of Thumbelina , and in a moment have put his arm round her slender waist , and have fly off with her to a tree .
The green leaf float away down the stream , and the butterfly with it , for he be fasten to the leaf and could not get loose from it .
Oh , dear !
how terrified poor little Thumbelina be when the cockchafer fly off with her to the tree !
But she be especially distress on the beautiful white butterfly 's account , a she have tie him fast , so that if he could not get away he must starve to death .
But the cockchafer do not trouble himself about that ; he sit down with her on a large green leaf , give her the honey out of the flower to eat , and tell her that she be very pretty , although she be n't in the least like a cockchafer .
Later on , all the other cockchafer who live in the same tree come to pay call ; they examine Thumbelina closely , and remark , ` Why , she have only two leg !
How very miserable ! '
` She have no feeler ! '
cry another .
` How ugly she be ! '
say all the lady chafers -- and yet Thumbelina be really very pretty .
The cockchafer who have steal her knew this very well ; but when he hear all the lady say she be ugly , he begin to think so too , and would not keep her ; she might go wherever she like .
So he fly down from the tree with her and put her on a daisy .
There she sit and weep , because she be so ugly that the cockchafer would have nothing to do with her ; and yet she be the most beautiful creature imaginable , so soft and delicate , like the lovely rose-leaf .
The whole summer poor little Thumbelina live alone in the great wood .
She plait a bed for herself of blade of grass , and hang it up under a clover-leaf , so that she be protect from the rain ; she gather honey from the flower for food , and drink the dew on the leaf every morning .
Thus the summer and autumn pass , but then come winter -- the long , cold winter .
All the bird who have sing so sweetly about her have fly away ; the tree shed their leaf , the flower die ; the great clover-leaf under which she have live curl up , and nothing remain of it but the withered stalk .
She be terribly cold , for her clothes be rag , and she herself be so small and thin .
Poor little Thumbelina !
she would surely be frozen to death .
It begin to snow , and every snow-flake that fell on her be to her a a whole shovelful throw on one of u , for we be so big , and she be only an inch high .
She wrapt herself round in a dead leaf , but it be tear in the middle and give her no warmth ; she be tremble with cold .
Just outside the wood where she be now live lay a great corn-field .
But the corn have be go a long time ; only the dry , bare stubble be leave standing in the frozen ground .
This make a forest for her to wander about in .
All at once she come across the door of a field-mouse , who have a little hole under a corn-stalk .
There the mouse live warm and snug , with a store-room full of corn , a splendid kitchen and dining-room .
Poor little Thumbelina go up to the door and beg for a little piece of barley , for she have not have anything to eat for the last two day .
` Poor little creature ! '
say the field-mouse , for she be a kind-hearted old thing at the bottom .
` Come into my warm room and have some dinner with me . '
As Thumbelina please her , she say : ` As far a I be concern you may spend the winter with me ; but you must keep my room clean and tidy , and tell me story , for I like that very much . '
And Thumbelina do all that the kind old field-mouse ask , and do it remarkably well too .
` Now I be expect a visitor , ' say the field-mouse ; ` my neighbour come to call on me once a week .
He be in good circumstance than I be , have great , big room , and wear a fine black-velvet coat .
If you could only marry him , you would be well provide for .
But he be blind .
You must tell him all the pretty story you know . '
But Thumbelina do not trouble her head about him , for he be only a mole .
He come and pay them a visit in his black-velvet coat .
` He be so rich and so accomplished , ' the field-mouse tell her .
` His house be twenty time large than mine ; he possess great knowledge , but he can not bear the sun and the beautiful flower , and speak slightingly of them , for he have never see them . '
Thumbelina have to sing to him , so she sing ` Lady-bird , lady-bird , fly away home ! '
and other song so prettily that the mole fell in love with her ; but he do not say anything , he be a very cautious man .
A short time before he have dig a long passage through the ground from his own house to that of his neighbour ; in this he give the field-mouse and Thumbelina permission to walk as often a they like .
But he beg them not to be afraid of the dead bird that lay in the passage : it be a real bird with beak and feather , and must have die a little time ago , and now lay bury just where he have make his tunnel .
The mole take a piece of rotten wood in his mouth , for that glow like fire in the dark , and go in front , light them through the long dark passage .
When they come to the place where the dead bird lay , the mole put his broad nose against the ceiling and push a hole through , so that the daylight could shine down .
In the middle of the path lay a dead swallow , his pretty wing press close to his side , his claw and head drawn under his feather ; the poor bird have evidently die of cold .
Thumbelina be very sorry , for she be very fond of all little bird ; they have sing and twitter so beautifully to her all through the summer .
But the mole kick him with his bandy leg and say : ` Now he ca n't sing any more !
It must be very miserable to be a little bird !
I 'm thankful that none of my little child be ; bird always starve in winter . '
` Yes , you speak like a sensible man , ' say the field-mouse .
` What have a bird , in spite of all his singing , in the winter-time ?
He must starve and freeze , and that must be very pleasant for him , I must say ! '
Thumbelina do not say anything ; but when the other two have pass on she bend down to the bird , brush aside the feather from his head , and kiss his closed eye gently .
` Perhaps it be he that sing to me so prettily in the summer , ' she think .
` How much pleasure he do give me , dear little bird ! '
The mole close up the hole again which let in the light , and then escort the lady home .
But Thumbelina could not sleep that night ; so she get out of bed , and plait a great big blanket of straw , and carry it off , and spread it over the dead bird , and pile upon it thistle-down as soft a cotton-wool , which she have find in the field-mouse 's room , so that the poor little thing should lie warmly bury .
` Farewell , pretty little bird ! '
she say .
` Farewell , and thank you for your beautiful song in the summer , when the tree be green , and the sun shine down warmly on u ! '
Then she lay her head against the bird 's heart .
But the bird be not dead : he have be frozen , but now that she have warm him , he be come to life again .
In autumn the swallow fly away to foreign land ; but there be some who be late in start , and then they get so cold that they drop down as if dead , and the snow come and cover them over .
Thumbelina tremble , she be so frightened ; for the bird be very large in comparison with herself -- only an inch high .
But she take courage , pile up the down more closely over the poor swallow , fetch her own coverlid and lay it over his head .
Next night she creep out again to him .
There he be alive , but very weak ; he could only open his eye for a moment and look at Thumbelina , who be stand in front of him with a piece of rotten wood in her hand , for she have no other lantern .
` Thank you , pretty little child ! '
say the swallow to her . '
I be so beautifully warm !
Soon I shall regain my strength , and then I shall be able to fly out again into the warm sunshine . '
` Oh ! '
she say , ` it be very cold outside ; it be snow and freeze !
stay in your warm bed ; I will take care of you ! '
Then she bring him water in a petal , which he drink , after which he relate to her how he have tear one of his wing on a bramble , so that he could not fly as fast a the other swallow , who have fly far away to warmer land .
So at last he have drop down exhaust , and then he could remember no more .
The whole winter he remain down there , and Thumbelina look after him and nurse him tenderly .
Neither the mole nor the field-mouse learnt anything of this , for they could not bear the poor swallow .
When the spring come , and the sun warm the earth again , the swallow say farewell to Thumbelina , who open the hole in the roof for him which the mole have make .
The sun shone brightly down upon her , and the swallow ask her if she would go with him ; she could sit upon his back .
Thumbelina want very much to fly far away into the green wood , but she know that the old field-mouse would be sad if she run away .
` No , I must n't come ! '
she say .
` Farewell , dear good little girl ! '
say the swallow , and fly off into the sunshine .
Thumbelina gaze after him with the tear stand in her eye , for she be very fond of the swallow .
` Tweet , tweet ! '
sing the bird , and fly into the green wood .
Thumbelina be very unhappy .
She be not allow to go out into the warm sunshine .
The corn which have be sow in the field over the field-mouse 's home grow up high into the air , and make a thick forest for the poor little girl , who be only an inch high .
` Now you be to be a bride , Thumbelina ! '
say the field-mouse , ` for our neighbour have propose for you !
What a piece of fortune for a poor child like you !
Now you must set to work at your linen for your dowry , for nothing must be lack if you be to become the wife of our neighbour , the mole ! '
Thumbelina have to spin all day long , and every even the mole visit her , and tell her that when the summer be over the sun would not shine so hot ; now it be burn the earth as hard a a stone .
Yes , when the summer have pass , they would keep the wedding .
But she be not at all pleased about it , for she do not like the stupid mole .
Every morning when the sun be rise , and every evening when it be set , she would steal out of the house-door , and when the breeze part the ear of corn so that she could see the blue sky through them , she think how bright and beautiful it must be outside , and long to see her dear swallow again .
But he never come ; no doubt he have fly away far into the great green wood .
By the autumn Thumbelina have finish the dowry .
` In four week you will be marry ! '
say the field-mouse ; ` do n't be obstinate , or I shall bite you with my sharp white teeth !
You will get a fine husband !
The King himself have not such a velvet coat .
His store-room and cellar be full , and you should be thankful for that . '
Well , the wedding-day arrived .
The mole have come to fetch Thumbelina to live with him deep down under the ground , never to come out into the warm sun again , for that be what he do n't like .
The poor little girl be very sad ; for now she must say good-bye to the beautiful sun .
` Farewell , bright sun ! '
she cry , stretch out her arm towards it , and take another step outside the house ; for now the corn have be reap , and only the dry stubble be leave standing .
` Farewell , farewell ! '
she say , and put her arm round a little red flower that grow there .
` Give my love to the dear swallow when you see him ! '
` Tweet , tweet ! '
sound in her ear all at once .
She look up .
There be the swallow fly past !
As soon a he saw Thumbelina , he be very glad .
She tell him how unwilling she be to marry the ugly mole , a then she have to live underground where the sun never shone , and she could not help burst into tear .
` The cold winter be come now , ' say the swallow . '
I must fly away to warmer land : will you come with me ?
You can sit on my back , and we will fly far away from the ugly mole and his dark house , over the mountain , to the warm country where the sun shin more brightly than here , where it be always summer , and there be always beautiful flower .
Do come with me , dear little Thumbelina , who save my life when I lay freeze in the dark tunnel ! '
` Yes , I will go with you , ' say Thumbelina , and get on the swallow 's back , with her foot on one of his outstretched wing .
Up he fly into the air , over wood and sea , over the great mountain where the snow be always lie .
And if she be cold she creep under his warm feather , only keep her little head out to admire all the beautiful thing in the world beneath .
At last they come to warm land ; there the sun be brighter , the sky seem twice as high , and in the hedge hang the fine green and purple grape ; in the wood grow orange and lemon : the air be scent with myrtle and mint , and on the road be pretty little child run about and play with great gorgeous butterfly .
But the swallow flew on farther , and it become more and more beautiful .
Under the most splendid green tree besides a blue lake stand a glitter white-marble castle .
Vines hang about the high pillar ; there be many swallow ' nest , and in one of these live the swallow who be carry Thumbelina .
` Here be my house ! '
say he .
` But it wo n't do for you to live with me ; I be not tidy enough to please you .
Find a home for yourself in one of the lovely flower that grow down there ; now I will set you down , and you can do whatever you like . '
` That will be splendid ! '
say she , clap her little hand .
There lay a great white marble column which have fall to the ground and break into three piece , but between these grow the most beautiful white flower .
The swallow fly down with Thumbelina , and set her upon one of the broad leaf .
But there , to her astonishment , she find a tiny little man sit in the middle of the flower , a white and transparent a if he be make of glass ; he have the pretty golden crown on his head , and the most beautiful wing on his shoulder ; he himself be no big than Thumbelina .
He be the spirit of the flower .
In each blossom there dwell a tiny man or woman ; but this one be the King over the others .
` How handsome he be ! '
whisper Thumbelina to the swallow .
The little Prince be very much frighten at the swallow , for in comparison with one so tiny a himself he seem a giant .
But when he saw Thumbelina , he be delighted , for she be the most beautiful girl he have ever see .
So he take his golden crown from off his head and put it on hers , ask her her name , and if she would be his wife , and then she would be Queen of all the flower .
Yes !
he be a different kind of husband to the son of the toad and the mole with the black-velvet coat .
So she say ` Yes ' to the noble Prince .
And out of each flower come a lady and gentleman , each so tiny and pretty that it be a pleasure to see them .
Each bring Thumbelina a present , but the best of all be a beautiful pair of wing which be fasten on to her back , and now she too could fly from flower to flower .
They all wish her joy , and the swallow sat above in his nest and sing the wedding march , and that he do as well a he could ; but he be sad , because he be very fond of Thumbelina and do not want to be separate from her .
` You shall not be call Thumbelina ! '
say the spirit of the flower to her ; ` that be an ugly name , and you be much too pretty for that .
We will call you May Blossom . '
` Farewell , farewell ! '
say the little swallow with a heavy heart , and fly away to farther land , far , far away , right back to Denmark .
There he have a little nest above a window , where his wife live , who can tell fairy-stories .
` Tweet , tweet ! '
he sing to her .
And that be the way we learn the whole story .
THE NIGHTINGALE In China , a I daresay you know , the Emperor be a Chinaman , and all his courtier be also Chinamen .
The story I be go to tell you happen many year ago , but it be worth while for you to listen to it , before it be forget .
The Emperor 's Palace be the most splendid in the world , all make of priceless porcelain , but so brittle and delicate that you have to take great care how you touch it .
In the garden be the most beautiful flower , and on the lovely of them be tie silver bell which tinkle , so that if you pass you could not help look at the flower .
Everything in the Emperor 's garden be admirably arrange with a view to effect ; and the garden be so large that even the gardener himself do not know where it end .
If you ever get beyond it , you come to a stately forest with great tree and deep lake in it .
The forest slop down to the sea , which be a clear blue .
Large ship could sail under the bough of the tree , and in these tree there live a Nightingale .
She sing so beautifully that even the poor fisherman who have so much to do stood and listen when he come at night to cast his net .
` How beautiful it be ! '
he say ; but he have to attend to his work , and forget about the bird .
But when she sing the next night and the fisherman come there again , he say the same thing , ` How beautiful it be ! '
From all the country round come traveller to the Emperor 's town , who be astonish at the Palace and the garden .
But when they hear the Nightingale they all say , ` This be the fine thing after all ! '
The traveller tell all about it when they go home , and learn scholar write many book upon the town , the Palace , and the garden .
But they do not forget the Nightingale ; she be praise the most , and all the poet compose splendid verse on the Nightingale in the forest by the deep sea .
The book be circulate throughout the world , and some of them reach the Emperor .
He sit in his golden chair , and read and read .
He nod his head every moment , for he like read the brilliant account of the town , the Palace , and the garden .
` But the Nightingale be good than all , ' he saw write .
` What be that ? '
say the Emperor . '
I do n't know anything about the Nightingale !
Is there such a bird in my empire , and so near a in my garden ?
I have never hear it !
Fancy reading for the first time about it in a book ! '
And he call his First Lord to him .
He be so proud that if anyone of low rank than his own ventured to speak to him or ask him anything , he would say nothing but ` P ! '
and that do not mean anything .
` Here be a most remarkable bird which be call a Nightingale ! '
say the Emperor .
` They say it be the most glorious thing in my kingdom .
Why have no one ever say anything to me about it ? ' '
I have never before hear it mention ! '
say the First Lord . '
I will look for it and find it ! '
But where be it to be find ?
The First Lord run up and down stair , through the hall and corridor ; but none of those he meet have ever hear of the Nightingale .
And the First Lord ran again to the Emperor , and tell him that it must be an invention on the part of those who have write the book .
` Your Imperial Majesty can not really believe all that be write !
There be some invention call the Black Art ! '
` But the book in which I read this , ' say the Emperor , ` be send me by His Great Majesty the Emperor of Japan ; so it can not be untrue , and I will hear the Nightingale !
She must be here this evening !
She have my gracious permission to appear , and if she do not , the whole Court shall be trample under foot after supper ! '
` Tsing pe ! '
say the First Lord ; and he run up and down stair , through the hall and corridor , and half the Court run with him , for they do not want to be trample under foot .
Everyone be ask after the wonderful Nightingale which all the world knew of , except those at Court .
At last they meet a poor little girl in the kitchen , who say , ` Oh !
I know the Nightingale well .
How she sing !
I have permission to carry the scrap over from the Court meal to my poor sick mother , and when I be go home at night , tire and weary , and rest for a little in the wood , then I hear the Nightingale singing !
It bring tear to my eye , and I feel a if my mother be kiss me ! '
` Little kitchenmaid ! '
say the First Lord , ' I will give you a place in the kitchen , and you shall have leave to see the Emperor at dinner , if you can lead u to the Nightingale , for she be invite to come to Court this evening . '
And so they all go into the wood where the Nightingale be wont to sing , and half the Court go too .
When they be on the way there they hear a cow mooing .
` Oh ! '
say the Courtiers , ` now we have find her !
What a wonderful power for such a small beast to have !
I be sure we have hear her before ! '
` No ; that be a cow mooing ! '
say the little kitchenmaid .
` We be still a long way off ! '
Then the frog begin to croak in the marsh .
` Splendid ! '
say the Chinese chaplain .
` Now we hear her ; it sound like a little church-bell ! '
` No , no ; those be frogs ! '
say the little kitchenmaid .
` But I think we shall soon hear her now ! '
Then the Nightingale begin to sing .
` There she be ! '
cry the little girl .
` Listen !
She be sit there ! '
And she point to a little dark-grey bird up in the branch .
` Is it possible ! '
say the First Lord . '
I should never have think it !
How ordinary she look !
She must surely have lose her feather because she see so many distinguish men round her ! '
` Little Nightingale , ' call out the little kitchenmaid , ` our Gracious Emperor want you to sing before him ! '
` With the great of pleasure ! '
say the Nightingale ; and she sing so gloriously that it be a pleasure to listen .
` It sound like glass bell ! '
say the First Lord .
` And look how her little throat work !
It be wonderful that we have never hear her before !
She will be a great success at Court . '
` Shall I sing once more for the Emperor ? '
ask the Nightingale , think that the Emperor be there .
` My esteemed little Nightingale , ' say the First Lord , ' I have the great pleasure to invite you to Court this evening , where His Gracious Imperial Highness will be enchant with your charming song ! '
` It sound best in the green wood , ' say the Nightingale ; but still , she come gladly when she hear that the Emperor wish it .
At the Palace everything be splendidly prepared .
The porcelain wall and floor glitter in the light of many thousand gold lamp ; the most gorgeous flower which tinkle out well be place in the corridor .
There be such a hurrying and draught that all the bell jingle so much that one could not hear oneself speak .
In the centre of the great hall where the Emperor sat be a golden perch , on which the Nightingale sat .
The whole Court be there , and the little kitchenmaid be allow to stand behind the door , now that she be a Court-cook .
Everyone be dress in his best , and everyone be look towards the little grey bird to whom the Emperor nod .
The Nightingale sang so gloriously that the tear come into the Emperor 's eye and run down his cheek .
Then the Nightingale sing even more beautifully ; it go straight to all heart .
The Emperor be so delighted that he say she should wear his gold slipper round her neck .
But the Nightingale thank him , and say she have have enough reward already . '
I have see tear in the Emperor 's eye -- that be a great reward .
An Emperor 's tear have such power ! '
Then she sing again with her gloriously sweet voice .
` That be the most charming coquetry I have ever see ! '
say all the lady round .
And they all take to hold water in their mouth that they might gurgle whenever anyone speak to them .
Then they think themselves nightingale .
Yes , the lackey and chambermaid announce that they be please ; which mean a great deal , for they be the most difficult people of all to satisfy .
In short , the Nightingale be a real success .
She have to stay at Court now ; she have her own cage , and permission to walk out twice in the day and once at night .
She be give twelve servant , who each hold a silken string which be fasten round her leg .
There be little pleasure in fly about like this .
The whole town be talk about the wonderful bird , and when two people meet each other one would say ` Nightin , ' and the other ` Gale , ' and then they would both sigh and understand one another .
Yes , and eleven grocer 's child be call after her , but not one of them could sing a note .
One day the Emperor receive a large parcel on which be write ` The Nightingale . '
` Here be another new book about our famous bird ! '
say the Emperor .
But it be not a book , but a little mechanical toy , which lay in a box -- an artificial nightingale which be like the real one , only that it be set all over with diamond , ruby , and sapphire .
When it be wind up , it could sing the piece the real bird sang , and move it tail up and down , and glitter with silver and gold .
Round it neck be a little collar on which be write , ` The Nightingale of the Emperor of Japan be nothing compare to that of the Emperor of China . '
` This be magnificent ! '
they all say , and the man who have bring the clockwork bird receive on the spot the title of ` Bringer of the Imperial First Nightingale . '
` Now they must sing together ; what a duet we shall have ! '
And so they sing together , but their voice do not blend , for the real Nightingale sang in her way and the clockwork bird sang waltz .
` It be not it fault ! '
say the bandmaster ; ` it keep very good time and be quite after my style ! '
Then the artificial bird have to sing alone .
It give just as much pleasure a the real one , and then it be so much pretty to look at ; it sparkle like bracelet and necklace .
Three-and-thirty time it sing the same piece without be tire .
People would like to have hear it again , but the Emperor think that the live Nightingale should sing now -- but where be she ?
No one have notice that she have fly out of the open window away to her green wood .
` What SHALL we do ! '
say the Emperor .
And all the Court scold , and say that the Nightingale be very ungrateful .
` But we have still the best bird ! '
they say and the artificial bird have to sing again , and that be the thirty-fourth time they have hear the same piece .
But they do not yet know it by heart ; it be much too difficult .
And the bandmaster praise the bird tremendously ; yes , he assure them it be well than a real nightingale , not only because of it beautiful plumage and diamond , but inside as well .
` For see , my Lords and Ladies and your Imperial Majesty , with the real Nightingale one can never tell what will come out , but all be know about the artificial bird !
You can explain it , you can open it and show people where the waltzes lie , how they go , and how one follow the other ! '
` That 's just what we think ! '
say everyone ; and the bandmaster receive permission to show the bird to the people the next Sunday .
They should hear it sing , command the Emperor .
And they hear it , and they be as pleased a if they have be intoxicate with tea , after the Chinese fashion , and they all say ` Oh ! '
and hold up their forefinger and nodded time .
But the poor fisherman who have hear the real Nightingale say : ` This one sing well enough , the tune glide out ; but there be something want -- I do n't know what ! '
The real Nightingale be banish from the kingdom .
The artificial bird be put on silken cushion by the Emperor 's bed , all the present which it receive , gold and precious stone , lay round it , and it be give the title of Imperial Night-singer , First from the left .
For the Emperor count that side a the more distinguished , be the side on which the heart be ; the Emperor 's heart be also on the left .
And the bandmaster write a work of twenty-five volume about the artificial bird .
It be so learned , long , and so full of the hard Chinese word that everyone say they have read it and understand it ; for once they have be very stupid about a book , and have be trample under foot in consequence .
So a whole year pass .
The Emperor , the Court , and all the Chinese knew every note of the artificial bird 's song by heart .
But they like it all the good for this ; they could even sing with it , and they do .
The street boy sing ` Tra-la-la-la-la , and the Emperor sing too sometimes .
It be indeed delightful .
But one evening , when the artificial bird be sing it best , and the Emperor lay in bed listening to it , something in the bird go crack .
Something snap !
Whir-r-r !
all the wheel run down and then the music cease .
The Emperor spring up , and have his physician summon , but what could HE do !
Then the clockmaker come , and , after a great deal of talk and examining , he put the bird somewhat in order , but he say that it must be very seldom use a the work be nearly wear out , and it be impossible to put in new one .
Here be a calamity !
Only once a year be the artificial bird allow to sing , and even that be almost too much for it .
But then the bandmaster make a little speech full of hard word , say that it be just as good a before .
And so , of course , it WAS just as good a before .
So five year pass , and then a great sorrow come to the nation .
The Chinese look upon their Emperor a everything , and now he be ill , and not likely to live it be say .
Already a new Emperor have be choose , and the people stand outside in the street and ask the First Lord how the old Emperor be .
` P ! '
say he , and shake his head .
Cold and pale lay the Emperor in his splendid great bed ; the whole Court believe him dead , and one after the other leave him to pay their respect to the new Emperor .
Everywhere in the hall and corridor cloth be lay down so that no footstep could be hear , and everything be still -- very , very still .
And nothing come to break the silence .
The Emperor long for something to come and relieve the monotony of this deathlike stillness .
If only someone would speak to him !
If only someone would sing to him .
Music would carry his thought away , and would break the spell lie on him .
The moon be stream in at the open window ; but that , too , be silent , quite silent .
` Music !
music ! '
cry the Emperor .
` You little bright golden bird , sing !
do sing !
I give you gold and jewel ; I have hang my gold slipper round your neck with my own hand -- sing !
do sing ! '
But the bird be silent .
There be no one to wind it up , and so it could not sing .
And all be silent , so terribly silent !
All at once there come in at the window the most glorious burst of song .
It be the little living Nightingale , who , sit outside on a bough , have hear the need of her Emperor and have come to sing to him of comfort and hope .
And a she sing the blood flow quick and quicker in the Emperor 's weak limb , and life begin to return .
` Thank you , thank you ! '
say the Emperor .
` You divine little bird !
I know you .
I chase you from my kingdom , and you have give me life again !
How can I reward you ? '
` You have do that already ! '
say the Nightingale . '
I bring tear to your eye the first time I sing .
I shall never forget that .
They be jewel that rejoice a singer 's heart .
But now sleep and get strong again ; I will sing you a lullaby . '
And the Emperor fell into a deep , calm sleep a she sing .
The sun be shin through the window when he awake , strong and well .
None of his servant have come back yet , for they think he be dead .
But the Nightingale sat and sang to him .
` You must always stay with me ! '
say the Emperor .
` You shall sing whenever you like , and I will break the artificial bird into a thousand piece . '
` Do n't do that ! '
say the Nightingale .
` He do his work as long a he could .
Keep him a you have do !
I can not build my nest in the Palace and live here ; but let me come whenever I like .
I will sit in the evening on the bough outside the window , and I will sing you something that will make you feel happy and grateful .
I will sing of joy , and of sorrow ; I will sing of the evil and the good which lie hide from you .
The little singing-bird fly all around , to the poor fisherman 's hut , to the farmer 's cottage , to all those who be far away from you and your Court .
I love your heart more than your crown , though that have about it a brightness a of something holy .
Now I will sing to you again ; but you must promise me one thing -- ' ` Anything ! '
say the Emperor , stand up in his Imperial robe , which he have himself put on , and fasten on his sword richly emboss with gold .
` One thing I beg of you !
Do n't tell anyone that you have a little bird who tell you everything .
It will be much well not to ! '
Then the Nightingale fly away .
The servant come in to look at their dead Emperor .
The Emperor say , ` Good-morning ! '
HERMOD AND HADVOR -LRB- 32 -RRB- -LRB- 32 -RRB- From the Icelandic .
Once upon a time there be a King and a Queen who have an only daughter , call Hadvor , who be fair and beautiful , and be an only child , be heir to the kingdom .
The King and Queen have also a foster son , name Hermod , who be just about the same age a Hadvor , and be good-looking , as well a clever at most thing .
Hermod and Hadvor often play together while they be child , and like each other so much that while they be still young they secretly plight their troth to each other .
As time go on the Queen fell sick , and suspect that it be her last illness , send for the King to come to her .
When he come she tell him that she have no long time to live , and therefore wish to ask one thing of him , which be , that if he marry another wife he should promise to take no other one than the Queen of Hetland the Good .
The King give the promise , and thereafter the Queen die .
Time go past , and the King , grow tire of live alone , fit out his ship and sail out to sea .
As he sail there come upon him so thick a mist that he altogether lose his bearing , but after long trouble he find land .
There he lay his ship to , and go on shore all alone .
After walk for some time he come to a forest , into which he go a little way and stop .
Then he hear sweet music from a harp , and go in the direction of the sound until he come to a clearing , and there he saw three woman , one of whom sit on a golden chair , and be beautifully and grandly dress ; she hold a harp in her hand , and be very sorrowful .
The second be also finely dress , but young in appearance , and also sit on a chair , but it be not so grand a the first one 's .
The third stood beside them , and be very pretty to look at ; she have a green cloak over her other clothes , and it be easy to see that she be maid to the other two .
After the King have look at them for a little he go forward and salute them .
The one that sit on the golden chair ask him who he be and where he be go ; and he tell her all the story -- how he be a king , and have lose his queen , and be now on his way to Hetland the Good , to ask the Queen of that country in marriage .
She answer that fortune have contrive this wonderfully , for pirate have plunder Hetland and kill the King , and she have flee from the land in terror , and have come hither after great trouble , and she be the very person he be look for , and the others be her daughter and maid .
The King immediately ask her hand ; she gladly receive his proposal and accept him at once .
Thereafter they all set out , and make their way to the ship ; and after that nothing be tell of their voyage until the King reach his own country .
There he make a great feast , and celebrate his marriage with this woman ; and after that thing be quiet for a time .
Hermod and Hadvor take but little notice of the Queen and her daughter , but , on the other hand , Hadvor and the Queen 's maid , whose name be Olof , be very friendly , and Olof come often to visit Hadvor in her castle .
Before long the King go out to war , and no sooner be he away than the Queen come to talk with Hermod , and say that she want him to marry her daughter .
Hermod tell her straight and plain that he would not do so , at which the Queen grow terribly angry , and say that in that case neither should he have Hadvor , for she would now lay this spell on him , that he should go to a desert island and there be a lion by day and a man by night .
He should also think always of Hadvor , which would cause him all the more sorrow , and from this spell he should never be free until Hadvor burn the lion 's skin , and that would not happen very soon .
As soon a the Queen have finish her speech Hermod reply that he also lay a spell on her , and that be , that as soon a he be free from her enchantment she should become a rat and her daughter a mouse , and fight with each other in the hall until he kill them with his sword .
After this Hermod disappear , and no one know what have become of him ; the Queen cause search to be make for him , but he could nowhere be find .
One time , when Olof be in the castle beside Hadvor , she ask the Princess if she know where Hermod have go to .
At this Hadvor become very sad , and say that she do not . '
I shall tell you then , ' say Olof , ` for I know all about it .
Hermod have disappear through the wicked device of the Queen , for she be a witch , and so be her daughter , though they have put on these beautiful form .
Because Hermod would not fall in with the Queen 's plan , and marry her daughter , she have lay a spell on him , to go on an island and be a lion by day and a man by night , and never be free from this until you burn the lion 's skin .
Besides , ' say Olof , ` she have look out a match for you ; she have a brother in the Underworld , a three-headed Giant , whom she mean to turn into a beautiful prince and get him marry to you .
This be no new thing for the Queen ; she take me away from my parent ' house and compel me to serve her ; but she have never do me any harm , for the green cloak I wear protects me against all mischief .
Hadvor now become still sad than before at the thought of the marriage destine for her , and entreat Olof to think of some plan to save her . '
I think , ' say Olof , ` that your wooer will come up through the floor of the castle to you , and so you must be prepare when you hear the noise of his come and the floor begin to open , and have at hand blaze pitch , and pour plenty of it into the opening .
That will prove too much for him . '
About this time the King come home from his expedition , and think it a great blow that no one know what have become of Hermod ; but the Queen console him a best she could , and after a time the King thought less about his disappearance .
Hadvor remain in her castle , and have make preparation to receive her wooer when he come .
One night , not long after , a loud noise and rumbling be hear under the castle .
Hadvor at once guess what it be , and tell her maid to be ready to help her .
The noise and thundering grow loud and louder , until the floor begin to open , whereupon Hadvor make them take the caldron of pitch and pour plenty of it into the opening .
With that the noise grow fainter and fainter , till at last they cease altogether .
Next morning the Queen rise early , and go out to the Palace gate , and there she find her brother the Giant lie dead .
She go up to him and say , ' I pronounce this spell , that you become a beautiful prince , and that Hadvor shall be unable to say anything against the charge that I shall bring against her . '
The body of the dead Giant now become that of a beautiful prince , and the Queen go in again . '
I do n't think , ' say she to the King , ` that your daughter be as good a she be say to be .
My brother come and ask her hand , and she have have him put to death .
I have just find his dead body lie at the Palace gate . '
The King go along with the Queen to see the body , and think it all very strange ; so beautiful a youth , he say , would have be a worthy match for Hadvor , and he would readily have agree to their marriage .
The Queen ask leave to decide what Hadvor 's punishment should be , which the King be very willing to allow , so a to escape from punish his own daughter .
The Queen 's decision be that the King should make a big grave-mound for her brother , and put Hadvor into it beside him .
Olof know all the plan of the Queen , and go to tell the Princess what have be do , whereupon Hadvor earnestly entreat her to tell her what to do .
` First and foremost , ' say Olof , ` you must get a wide cloak to wear over your other clothes , when you be put into the mound .
The Giant 's ghost will walk after you be both left together in there , and he will have two dog along with him .
He will ask you to cut piece out of his leg to give to the dog , but that you must not promise to do unless he tell you where Hermod have go to , and tell you how to find him .
He will then let you stand on his shoulder , so a to get out of the mound ; but he mean to cheat you all the same , and will catch you by the cloak to pull you back again ; but you must take care to have the cloak loose on your shoulder , so that he will only get hold of that . '
The mound be all ready now , and the Giant laid in it , and into it Hadvor also have to go without be allow to make any defence .
After they be both leave there everything happen just a Olof have say .
The prince become a Giant again , and ask Hadvor to cut the piece out of his leg for the dog ; but she refuse until he tell her that Hermod be in a desert island , which she could not reach unless she take the skin off the sol of his foot and make shoe out of that ; with these shoe she could travel both on land and sea .
This Hadvor now do , and the Giant then let her get up on his shoulder to get out of the mound .
As she spring out he catch hold of her cloak ; but she have take care to let it lie loose on her shoulder , and so escaped .
She now make her way down to the sea , to where she know there be the short distance over to the island in which Hermod be .
This strait she easily cross , for the shoe keep her up .
On reach the island she find a sandy beach all along by the sea , and high cliff above .
Nor could she see any way to get up these , and so , be both sad at heart and tire with the long journey , she lay down and fell asleep .
As she sleep she dream that a tall woman come to her and say , ' I know that you be Princess Hadvor , and be search for Hermod .
He be on this island ; but it will be hard for you to get to him if you have no one to help you , for you can not climb the cliff by your own strength .
I have therefore let down a rope , by which you will be able to climb up ; and a the island be so large that you might not find Hermod 's dwelling-place so easily , I lay down this clew beside you .
You need only hold the end of the thread , and the clew will run on before and show you the way .
I also lay this belt beside you , to put on when you awaken ; it will keep you from grow faint with hunger . '
The woman now disappear , and Hadvor wake , and saw that all her dream have be true .
The rope hang down from the cliff , and the clew and belt lay beside her .
The belt she put on , the rope enable her to climb up the cliff , and the clew lead her on till she come to the mouth of a cave , which be not very big .
She go into the cave , and saw there a low couch , under which she creep and lay down .
When even come she hear the noise of footstep outside , and become aware that the lion have come to the mouth of the cave , and shake itself there , after which she hear a man come towards the couch .
She be sure this be Hermod , because she hear him speak to himself about his own condition , and call to mind Hadvor and other thing in the old day .
Hadvor make no sign , but wait till he have fall asleep , and then creep out and burn the lion 's skin , which he have leave outside .
Then she go back into the cave and waken Hermod , and they have a most joyful meeting .
In the morning they talk over their plan , and be most at a loss to know how to get out of the island .
Hadvor tell Hermod her dream , and say she suspect there be some one in the island who would be able to help them .
Hermod say he know of a Witch there , who be very ready to help anyone , and that the only plan be to go to her .
So they go to the Witch 's cave , and find her there with her fifteen young son , and ask her to help them to get to the mainland .
` There be other thing easy than that , ' say she , ` for the Giant that be bury will be wait for you , and will attack you on the way , a he have turn himself into a big whale .
I shall lend you a boat , however , and if you meet the whale and think your life be in danger , then you can name me by name . '
They thank her greatly for her help and advice , and set out from the island , but on the way they saw a huge fish come towards them , with great splashing and dashing of wave .
They be sure of what it be , and think they have a good reason a ever they would have to call on the Witch , and so they do .
The next minute they saw come after them another huge whale , follow by fifteen small one .
All of these swam past the boat and go on to meet the whale .
There be a fierce battle then , and the sea become so stormy that it be not very easy to keep the boat from be fill by the wave .
After this fight have go on for some time , they saw that the sea be dye with blood ; the big whale and the fifteen small one disappear , and they get to land safe and sound .
Now the story go back to the King 's hall , where strange thing have happen in the meantime .
The Queen and her daughter have disappear , but a rat and a mouse be always fight with each other there .
Ever so many people have try to drive them away , but no one could manage it .
Thus some time go on , while the King be almost beside himself with sorrow and care for the loss of his Queen , and because these monster destroy all mirth in the hall .
One evening , however , while they all sit dull and down-hearted , in come Hermod with a sword by his side , and salute the King , who receive him with the great joy , a if he have come back from the dead .
Before Hermod sit down , however , he go to where the rat and the mouse be fight , and cut them in two with his sword .
All be astonish then by see two witch lie dead on the floor of the hall .
Hermod now tell the whole story to the King , who be very glad to be rid of such vile creature .
Next he ask for the hand of Hadvor , which the King readily give him , and be now an old man , give the kingdom to him as well ; and so Hermod become King .
Olof marry a good-looking nobleman , and that be the end of the story .
THE STEADFAST TIN-SOLDIER There be once upon a time five-and twenty tin-soldiers -- all brother , a they be make out of the same old tin spoon .
Their uniform be red and blue , and they shoulder their gun and look straight in front of them .
The first word that they hear in this world , when the lid of the box in which they lay be take off , be : ` Hurrah , tin-soldiers ! '
This be exclaim by a little boy , clap his hand ; they have be give to him because it be his birthday , and now he begin set them out on the table .
Each soldier be exactly like the other in shape , except just one , who have be make last when the tin have run short ; but there he stand a firmly on his one leg a the others do on two , and he be the one that become famous .
There be many other plaything on the table on which they be be set out , but the nice of all be a pretty little castle make of cardboard , with window through which you could see into the room .
In front of the castle stand some little tree surround a tiny mirror which look like a lake .
Wax swan be float about and reflect themselves in it .
That be all very pretty ; but the most beautiful thing be a little lady , who stand in the open doorway .
She be cut out of paper , but she have on a dress of the fine muslin , with a scarf of narrow blue ribbon round her shoulder , fasten in the middle with a glittering rise make of gold paper , which be as large a her head .
The little lady be stretch out both her arm , for she be a Dancer , and be lift up one leg so high in the air that the Tin-soldier could n't find it anywhere , and think that she , too , have only one leg .
` That 's the wife for me ! '
he think ; ` but she be so grand , and live in a castle , whilst I have only a box with four-and-twenty others .
This be no place for her !
But I must make her acquaintance . '
Then he stretch himself out behind a snuff-box that lay on the table ; from thence he could watch the dainty little lady , who continue to stand on one leg without lose her balance .
When the night come all the other tin-soldiers go into their box , and the people of the house go to bed .
Then the toy begin to play at visiting , dancing , and fighting .
The tin-soldiers rattle in their box , for they want to be out too , but they could not raise the lid .
The nut-crackers play at leap-frog , and the slate-pencil ran about the slate ; there be such a noise that the canary wake up and begin to talk to them , in poetry too !
The only two who do not stir from their place be the Tin-soldier and the little Dancer .
She remain on tip-toe , with both arm outstretched ; he stand steadfastly on his one leg , never move his eye from her face .
The clock strike twelve , and crack !
off fly the lid of the snuff-box ; but there be no snuff inside , only a little black imp -- that be the beauty of it .
` Hullo , Tin-soldier ! '
say the imp .
` Do n't look at thing that be n't intend for the like of you ! '
But the Tin-soldier take no notice , and seem not to hear .
` Very well , wait till to-morrow ! '
say the imp .
When it be morning , and the child have get up , the Tin-soldier be put in the window ; and whether it be the wind or the little black imp , I do n't know , but all at once the window fly open and out fell the little Tin-soldier , head over heel , from the third-storey window !
That be a terrible fall , I can tell you !
He land on his head with his leg in the air , his gun be wedge between two paving-stones .
The nursery-maid and the little boy come down at once to look for him , but , though they be so near him that they almost tread on him , they do not notice him .
If the Tin-soldier have only call out ` Here I be ! '
they must have find him ; but he do not think it fit for him to cry out , because he have on his uniform .
Soon it begin to drizzle ; then the drop come faster , and there be a regular down-pour .
When it be over , two little street boy come along .
` Just look ! '
cried one .
` Here be a Tin-soldier !
He shall sail up and down in a boat ! '
So they make a little boat out of newspaper , put the Tin-soldier in it , and make him sail up and down the gutter ; both the boy run along beside him , clap their hand .
What great wave there be in the gutter , and what a swift current !
The paper-boat toss up and down , and in the middle of the stream it go so quick that the Tin-soldier tremble ; but he remain steadfast , show no emotion , look straight in front of him , shoulder his gun .
All at once the boat pass under a long tunnel that be as dark a his box have be .
` Where can I be come now ? '
he wonder .
` Oh , dear !
This be the black imp 's fault !
Ah , if only the little lady be sit beside me in the boat , it might be twice a dark for all I should care ! '
Suddenly there come along a great water-rat that live in the tunnel .
` Have you a passport ? '
ask the rat .
` Out with your passport ! '
But the Tin-soldier be silent , and grasp his gun more firmly .
The boat speed on , and the rat behind it .
Ugh !
how he show his teeth , a he cry to the chip of wood and straw : ` Hold him , hold him !
he have not pay the toll !
He have not show his passport ! '
But the current become swifter and strong .
The Tin-soldier could already see daylight where the tunnel end ; but in his ear there sound a roaring enough to frighten any brave man .
Only think !
at the end of the tunnel the gutter discharge itself into a great canal ; that would be just as dangerous for him a it would be for u to go down a waterfall .
Now he be so near to it that he could not hold on any long .
On go the boat , the poor Tin-soldier keep himself as stiff a he could : no one should say of him afterwards that he have flinch .
The boat whirl three , four time round , and become fill to the brim with water : it begin to sink !
The Tin-soldier be stand up to his neck in water , and deep and deep sink the boat , and soft and soft grow the paper ; now the water be over his head .
He be think of the pretty little Dancer , whose face he should never see again , and there sound in his ear , over and over again : ` Forward , forward , soldier bold !
Death 's before thee , grim and cold ! '
The paper come in two , and the soldier fell -- but at that moment he be swallow by a great fish .
Oh !
how dark it be inside , even dark than in the tunnel , and it be really very close quarter !
But there the steadfast little Tin-soldier lay full length , shoulder his gun .
Up and down swim the fish , then he make the most dreadful contortion , and become suddenly quite still .
Then it be a if a flash of lightning have pass through him ; the daylight stream in , and a voice exclaim , ` Why , here be the little Tin-soldier ! '
The fish have be catch , take to market , sell , and bring into the kitchen , where the cook have cut it open with a great knife .
She take up the soldier between her finger and thumb , and carry him into the room , where everyone want to see the hero who have be find inside a fish ; but the Tin-soldier be not at all proud .
They put him on the table , and -- no , but what strange thing do happen in this world !
-- the Tin-soldier be in the same room in which he have be before !
He saw the same child , and the same toy on the table ; and there be the same grand castle with the pretty little Dancer .
She be still stand on one leg with the other high in the air ; she too be steadfast .
That touch the Tin-soldier , he be nearly go to shed tin-tears ; but that would not have be fit for a soldier .
He look at her , but she say nothing .
All at once one of the little boy take up the Tin-soldier , and throw him into the stove , give no reason ; but doubtless the little black imp in the snuff-box be at the bottom of this too .
There the Tin-soldier lay , and felt a heat that be truly terrible ; but whether he be suffer from actual fire , or from the ardour of his passion , he do not know .
All his colour have disappear ; whether this have happen on his travel or whether it be the result of trouble , who can say ?
He look at the little lady , she look at him , and he felt that he be melt ; but he remain steadfast , with his gun at his shoulder .
Suddenly a door open , the draught catch up the little Dancer , and off she fly like a sylph to the Tin-soldier in the stove , burst into flame -- and that be the end of her !
Then the Tin-soldier melt down into a little lump , and when next morning the maid be take out the ash , she find him in the shape of a heart .
There be nothing left of the little Dancer but her gilt rise , burnt as black a a cinder .
