My , how good it taste !
He go all around the tree , strip off the bark .
He stand up on his long hind leg and reach as high a he could .
Then he dig the snow away and eat down as far a he could .
When he could get no more tender young bark , he go on to the next tree .
Now though Peter do n't know it , he be in the very bad kind of mischief .
You see , when he take off all the bark all the way around the young peach tree he kill the tree , for you know it be on the inside of the bark that the sap which give life to a tree and make it grow go up from the root to all the branch .
So when Peter eat the bark all the way around the trunk of the young tree , he have make it impossible for the sap to come up in the spring .
Oh , it be the bad kind of mischief that Peter Rabbit be in .
But Peter do n't know it , and he keep right on fill that big stomach of his and enjoy it so much that he forget to watch out for danger .
Suddenly , just a he have begin on another tree , a great roar right behind him make him jump almost out of his skin .
He know that voice , and without wait to even look behind him , he start for the stone wall on the other side of the orchard .
Right at his heel , his great mouth wide open , be Bowser the Hound .
CHAPTER XIV Farmer Brown Sets a Trap Peter Rabbit be in trouble .
He have get into mischief and now , like everyone who get into mischief , he wish that he have n't .
The bad of it be that he be a long way from his home in the dear Old Briar-patch , and he do n't know how he ever could get back there again .
Where be he ?
Why , in the stone wall on one side of Farmer Brown 's young peach orchard .
How Peter bless the old stone wall in which he have find a safe hiding-place !
Bowser have hang around nearly all night , so that Peter have not dare to try to go home .
Now it be daylight , and Peter know it would not be safe to put his nose outside .
Peter be worry , so worried that he could n't go to sleep a he usually do in the daytime .
So he sit hide in the old wall and wait and watch .
By and by he saw Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy come out into the orchard .
Right away they saw the mischief which Peter have do , and he could tell by the sound of their voice that they be very , very angry .
They go away , but before long they be back again , and all day long Peter watch them work put something around each of the young peach-trees .
Peter grow so curious that he forget all about his trouble and how far away from home he be .
He could hardly wait for night to come so that he might see what they have be do .
Just a jolly , round , red Mr. Sun start to go to bed behind the Purple Hills , Farmer Brown and his boy start back to the house .
Farmer Brown be smile now .
`` I guess that will fix him ! ''
he say .
`` Now what do he mean by that ? ''
think Peter .
`` Whom will it fix ?
Can it be me ?
I do n't need any fixing . ''
He wait just as long a he could .
When all be still , and the moonlight have begin to make shadow of the tree on the snow , Peter very cautiously creep out of his hiding-place .
Bowser the Hound be nowhere in sight , and everything be a quiet and peaceful a it have be when he first come into the orchard the night before .
Peter have fully make up his mind to go straight home as fast a his long leg would take him , but his dreadful curiosity insist that first he must find out what Farmer Brown and his boy have be do to the young peach tree .
So Peter hurry over to the near tree .
All around the trunk of the tree , from the ground clear up high than Peter could reach , be wrap wire netting .
Peter could n't get so much a a nibble of the delicious bark .
He have n't intend to take any , for he have mean to go right straight home , but now that he could n't get any , he want some more than ever , -- just a bite .
Peter look around .
Everything be quiet .
He would try the next tree , and then he would go home .
But the next tree be wrap with wire .
Peter hesitate , look around , turn to go home , think of how good that bark have taste the night before , hesitate again , and then hurry over to the third tree .
It be protect just like the others .
Then Peter forget all about go home .
He want some of that delicious bark , and he run from one tree to another as fast a he could go .
-LSB- Illustration : The tree trunk be wrap in wire netting . -RSB-
At last , way down at the end of the orchard , Peter find a tree that have no wire around it .
`` They must have forget this one ! ''
he think , and his eye sparkle .
All around on the snow be a lot of little , shiny wire , but Peter do n't notice them .
All he saw be that delicious bark on the young peach tree .
He hop right into the middle of the wire , and then , just a he reach up to take the first bite of bark , he felt something tug at one of his hind leg .
CHAPTER XV Peter Rabbit Is Caught in a Snare When Peter Rabbit , reach up to nibble the bark of one of Farmer Brown 's young tree , felt something tug at one of his hind leg , he be so startled that he jump to get away .
Instead of do this , he fell flat on his face .
The thing on his hind leg have tighten and hold him fast .
A great fear come to Peter Rabbit , and lie there in the snow , he kick and struggle with all his might .
But the more he kick , the tighter grow that hateful thing on his leg !
Finally he grow too tired to kick any more and lay still .
The dreadful thing that hold him hurt his leg , but it do n't pull when he lay still .
When he have grow a little calmer , Peter sit up to examine the thing which hold him so fast .
It be something like one of the blackberry vines he have sometimes trip over , only it be bright and shiny , and have no branch or tiny pricker , and one end be fasten to a stake .
Peter try to bite off the shiny thing , but even his great , sharp front teeth could n't cut it .
Then Peter know what it be .
It be wire !
It be a snare which Farmer Brown have set to catch him , and which he have walk right into because he have be so greedy for the bark of the young peach tree that he have not use his eye to look out for danger .
Oh , how Peter Rabbit do wish that he have not be so curious to know what Farmer Brown have be do that day , and that he have go straight home a he have mean to do , instead of try to get one more meal of young peach bark !
Big tear roll down Peter 's cheek .
What should he do ?
What could he do ?
For a long time Peter sit in the moonlight , try to think of something to do .
At last he think of the stake to which that hateful wire be fasten .
The stake be of wood , and Peter 's teeth would cut wood .
Peter 's heart give a great leap of hope , and he begin at once to dig away the snow from around the stake , and then settle himself to gnaw the stake in two .
Peter have be hard at work on the stake a long time and have it a little more than half cut through , when he hear a loud sniff down at the other end of the orchard .
He look up to see -- whom do you think ?
Why , Bowser the Hound !
He have n't see Peter yet , but he have already find Peter 's track , and it would be but a few minute before he find Peter himself .
Poor Peter Rabbit !
There be n't time to finish cut off the stake .
What could he do ?
He make a frightened jump just a he have when he first felt the wire tugging at his leg .
Just a before , he be throw flat on his face .
He scramble to his foot and jump again , only to be throw just a before .
Just then Bowser the Hound saw him and open his mouth send forth a great roar .
Peter make one more frantic jump .
Snap !
the stake have break !
Peter pitch forward on his head , turn a somersault , and scramble to his foot .
He be free at last !
That be , he could run , but after him drag a piece of the stake .
How Peter do run !
It be hard work , for you know he have to drag that piece of stake after him .
But he do it , and just in time he crawl into the old stone wall on one side of the orchard , while Bowser the Hound bark his disappointment to the moon .
CHAPTER XVI Peter Rabbit 's Hard Journey Peter Rabbit sit in the old stone wall along one side of Farmer Brown 's orchard , wait for Mrs . Moon to put out her light and leave the world in darkness until jolly , round , red Mr. Sun should kick off his rosy bedclothes and begin his daily climb up in the blue , blue sky .
In the winter , Mr. Sun be a late sleeper , and Peter know that there would be two or three hour after Mrs . Moon put out her light when it would be quite dark .
And Peter also know too that by this time Hooty the Owl would probably have catch his dinner .
So would old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox .
Bowser the Hound would be too sleepy to be on the watch .
It would be the very safe time for Peter to try to get to his home in the dear Old Briar-patch .
So Peter wait and wait .
Twice Bowser the Hound , who have chase him into the old wall , come over and bark at him and try to get at him .
But the old wall keep Peter safe , and Bowser give it up .
And all the time Peter sit wait he be in great pain .
You see that shiny wire be draw so tight that it cut into his flesh and hurt dreadfully , and to the other end of the wire be fasten a piece of wood , part of the stake to which the snare have be make fast and which Peter have manage to gnaw and break off .
It be on account of this that Peter be wait for Mrs . Moon to put out her light .
He know that with that stake drag after him he would have to go very slowly , and he could not run any more risk of danger than he actually have to .
So he wait and wait , and by and by , sure enough , Mrs . Moon put out her light .
Peter wait a little long , listen with all his might .
Everything be still .
Then Peter creep out of the old stone wall .
Right away trouble begin .
The stake drag at the end of the wire fast to his leg caught among the stone and pull Peter up short .
My , how it do hurt !
It make the tear come .
But Peter shut his teeth hard , and turn back , he work until he get the stake free .
Then he start on once more , drag the stake after him .
Very slowly across the orchard and under the fence on the other side creep Peter Rabbit , his leg so stiff and sore that he could hardly touch it to the snow , and all the time drag that piece of stake , which seem to grow heavy and hard to drag every minute .
Peter do not dare to go out across the open field , for fear some danger might happen along , and he would have no place to hide .
So he creep along close to the fence where bush grow , and this make it very , very hard , for the drag stake be forever catch in the bush with a yank at the sore leg which bring Peter up short with a squeal of pain .
This be bad enough , but all the time Peter be fill with a dreadful fear that Hooty the Owl or Granny Fox might just happen along .
He have to stop to rest very , very often , and then he would listen and listen .
Over and over again he say to himself : `` Oh , dear , whatever do I go up to the young peach orchard for when I know I have no business there ?
Why could n't I have be content with all the good thing that be mine in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows ?
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear ! ''
Just a jolly , round , red Mr. Sun begin to light up the Green Meadows , Peter Rabbit reach the dear Old Briar-patch .
Danny Meadow Mouse be sit on the edge of it anxiously watch for him .
Peter crawl up and start to creep in along one of his little private path .
He get in himself , but the drag stake caught among the bramble , and Peter just fell down in the snow right where he be , too tired and wear out to move .
CHAPTER XVII Danny Meadow Mouse Becomes Worried Danny Meadow Mouse limp around through the dear Old Briar-patch , where he have live with Peter Rabbit ever since he have squirm out of the claw of Hooty the Owl and drop there , right at the foot of Peter Rabbit .
Danny limp because he be still lame and sore from Hooty 's terrible claw , but he do n't let himself think much about that , because he be so thankful to be alive at all .
So he limp around in the Old Briar-patch , pick up seed which have fall on the snow , and sometimes pull down a few of the red berry which cling all winter to the wild rise bush .
The seed in these be very nice indeed , and Danny always felt especially good after a meal of them .
Danny Meadow Mouse have grow very fond of Peter Rabbit , for Peter have be very , very good to him .
Danny felt that he never , never could repay all of Peter 's kindness .
It have be very good of Peter to offer to share the Old Briar-patch with Danny , because Danny be so far from his own home that it would not be safe for him to try to get back there .
But Peter have do more than that .
He have take care of Danny , such good care , during the first few day after Danny 's escape from Hooty the Owl .
He have bring good thing to eat while Danny be too weak and sore to get thing for himself .
Oh , Peter have be very good indeed to him !
But now , a Danny limp around , he be not happy .
No , sir , he be not happy .
The truth be , Danny Meadow Mouse be worry .
It be a different kind of worry from any he have know before .
You see , for the first time in his life , Danny be worry about someone else .
He be worry about Peter Rabbit .
Peter have be go from the Old Briar-patch a whole night and a whole day .
He often be go all night , but never all day too .
Danny be sure that something have happen to Peter .
He think of how he have beg Peter not to go up to Farmer Brown 's young peach orchard .
He have felt in his bone that it be not safe , that something dreadful would happen to Peter .
How Peter have laugh at him and bravely start off !
Why have n't he come home ?
As he limp around , Danny talk to himself : `` Why can not people be content With all the good thing that be send , And mind their own affair at home Instead of go forth to roam ? ''
It be now the second night since Peter Rabbit have go away .
Danny Meadow Mouse could n't sleep at all .
Round and round through the Old Briar-patch he limp , and finally sit down at the edge of it to wait and watch .
At last , just a jolly , round , red Mr. Sun send his first long ray of light across the Green Meadows , Danny saw something crawling towards the Old Briar-patch .
He rub his eye and look again .
It be -- no , it could n't be -- yes , it be Peter Rabbit !
But what be the matter with him ?
Always before Peter have come home lipperty-lipperty-lipperty-lip , but now he be crawl , actually crawl !
Danny Meadow Mouse do n't know what to make of it .
Nearer and nearer come Peter .
Something be follow him .
No , Peter be drag something after him .
At last Peter start to crawl along one of his little private path into the Old Briar-patch .
The thing drag behind caught in the bramble , and Peter fell headlong in the snow , too tired and wear out to move .
Then Danny saw what the trouble be .
A wire be fast to one of Peter 's long hind leg , and to the other end of the wire be fasten part of a stake .
Peter have be catch in a snare !
Danny hurry over to Peter and tear stand in his eye .
`` Poor Peter Rabbit !
Oh , I 'm so sorry , Peter ! ''
he whisper .
CHAPTER XVIII Danny Meadow Mouse Returns a Kindness There Peter Rabbit lay .
He have drag that piece of stake a long way , a very long way , indeed .
But now he could drag it no farther , for it have catch in the bramble bush .
So Peter just drop on the snow and cry .
Yes , sir , he cry !
You see he be so tired and wear out and frightened , and his leg be so stiff and sore and hurt him so !
And then it be so dreadful to actually get home and be stop right on your very own doorstep .
So Peter just lay there and cry .
Just suppose old Granny Fox should come poke around and find Peter catch that way !
All she would have to do would be to get hold of that hateful stake caught in the bramble bush and pull Peter out where she could get him .
Do you wonder that Peter cry ?
By and by he become aware that someone be wipe away his tear .
It be Danny Meadow Mouse .
And Danny be sing in a funny little voice .
Pretty soon Peter stop cry and listen , and this be what he hear : `` Is n't any use to cry !
Not a bit !
Not a bit !
Wipe your eye and wipe 'em dry !
Use your wit !
Use your wit !
Just remember that to-morrow Never bring a single sorrow .
Yesterday have go forever And to-morrow get here never .
Chase your worry all away ; Nothing 's bad than just to-day . ''
Peter smile in spite of himself .
`` That 's right !
That 's right !
Smile away , Peter Rabbit .
Smile away !
Your trouble , sir , be all to-day .
And between you and me , I do n't believe they be so bad a you think they be .
Now you lie still just where you be , while I go see what can be do . ''
With that off whisk Danny Meadow Mouse as spry a you please , in spite of his lame leg , and in a few minute Peter know by little twitch of the wire on his leg that Danny be do something at the other end .
He be .
Danny Meadow Mouse have set out to gnaw that piece of stake all to splinter .
So there he sit and gnaw and gnaw and gnaw .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun climb high and higher in the sky , and Danny Meadow Mouse grow hungry , but still he keep right on gnaw at that bothersome stake .
-LSB- Illustration : Danny gnaw the stake which hold Peter . -RSB-
By and by , happen to look across the snow-covered Green Meadows , he saw something that make his heart jump .
It be Farmer Brown 's boy come straight over towards the dear Old Briar-patch .
Danny do n't say a word to Peter Rabbit , but gnaw faster than ever .
Farmer Brown 's boy be almost there when Danny stop gnaw .
There be only a tiny bit of the stake leave now , and Danny hurry to tell Peter Rabbit that there be nothing to stop him now from go to his most secret retreat in the very heart of the Old Briar-patch .
While Peter slowly drag his way along , Danny trot behind to see that the wire do not catch on the bush .
They have safely reach Peter Rabbit 's secret retreat when Farmer Brown 's boy come up to the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch .
`` So this be where that rabbit that kill our peach tree live ! ''
say he .
`` We 'll try a few snare and put you out of mischief . ''
And for the rest of the afternoon Farmer Brown 's boy be very busy around the edge of the Old Briar-patch .
CHAPTER XIX Peter Rabbit and Danny Meadow Mouse Live High Peter Rabbit sit in his secret place in the dear Old Briar-patch with one of his long hind leg all swell up and terribly sore because of the fine wire fast around it and cut into it .
He could hear Farmer Brown 's boy go around on the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch and stop every little while to do something .
In spite of his pain , Peter be curious .
Finally he call Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Danny , you be small and can keep out of sight easy than I can .
Go as near a ever you dare to Farmer Brown 's boy and find out what he be do , '' say Peter Rabbit .
So Danny Meadow Mouse creep out a near to Farmer Brown 's boy a ever he dare and study and study to make out what Farmer Brown 's boy be do .
By and by he return to Peter Rabbit .
`` I do n't know what he 's do , Peter , but he 's put something in every one of your private little paths lead into the Briar-patch from the Green Meadows . ''
`` Ha ! ''
say Peter Rabbit .
`` There be little loop of that queer stuff you 've get hang to your leg , Peter , '' continue Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Just so ! ''
say Peter Rabbit .
`` And he 's put cabbage leaf and piece of apple all around , '' say Danny .
`` We must be careful ! ''
say Peter Rabbit .
Peter 's leg be in a very bad way , indeed , and Peter suffer a great deal of pain .
The bad of it be , he do n't know how to get off the wire that be cut into it so .
He have try to cut the wire with his big teeth , but he could n't do it .
Danny Meadow Mouse have try and try to gnaw the wire , but it be n't the least bit of use .
But Danny be n't easily discourage , and he keep work and work at it .
Once he think he felt it slip a little .
He say nothing , but keep right on work .
Pretty soon he be sure that it slip .
He go right on work harder than ever .
By and by he have it so loose that he slip it right off of Peter 's leg , and Peter do n't know anything about it .
You see , that cruel wire snare have be so tight that Peter do n't have any feeling except of pain leave in his leg , and so when Danny Meadow Mouse pull the cruel wire snare off , Peter do n't know it until Danny hold it up in front of him .
My , how thankful Peter be , and how he do thank Danny Meadow Mouse !
But Danny say that it be nothing at all , just nothing at all , and that he owe more than that to Peter Rabbit for be so good to him and let him live in the dear Old Briar-patch .
It be a long time before Peter could hop a he use to , but after the first day he manage to get around .
He find that Farmer Brown 's boy have spread those miserable wire snare in every one of his private little path .
But Peter know what they be now .
He show Danny Meadow Mouse how he , because he be so small , could safely run about among the snare and steal all the cabbage leave and apple which Farmer Brown 's boy have put there for bait .
Danny Meadow Mouse think this great fun and a great joke on Farmer Brown 's boy .
So every day he steal the bait , and he and Peter Rabbit live high while Peter 's leg be get well .
And all the time Farmer Brown 's boy wonder why he could n't catch Peter Rabbit .
CHAPTER XX Timid Danny Meadow Mouse Danny Meadow Mouse be timid .
Everybody say so , and what everybody say ought to be so .
But just a anybody can make a mistake sometimes , so can everybody .
Still , in this case , it be quite likely that everybody be right .
Danny Meadow Mouse be timid .
Ask Peter Rabbit .
Ask Sammy Jay .
Ask Striped Chipmunk .
They will all tell you the same thing .
Sammy Jay might even tell you that Danny be afraid of his own shadow , or that he try to run away from his own tail .
Of course this be n't true .
Sammy Jay like to say mean thing .
It be n't fair to Danny Meadow Mouse to believe what Sammy Jay say .
But the fact be Danny certainly be timid .
More than this , he be n't ashamed of it -- not the least little bit .
`` You see , it 's this way , '' say Danny , a he sit on his doorstep one sunny morning talk to his friend , old Mr. Toad .
`` If I be n't afraid , I would n't be all the time watch out , and if I be n't all the time watch out , I would n't have any more chance than that foolish red ant run across in front of you . ''
Old Mr. Toad look where Danny be point , and his tongue dart out and back again so quickly that Danny be n't sure that he saw it at all , but when he look for the ant it be nowhere to be see , and there be a satisfied twinkle in Mr. Toad 's eye .
There be an answer twinkle in Danny 's own eye a he continue .
`` No , sir , '' say he , `` I would n't stand a particle more chance than that foolish ant do .
Now if I be big and strong , like Old Man Coyote , or have swift wing , like Skimmer the Swallow , or be so homely and ugly-looking that no one want me , like -- like -- '' Danny hesitate and then finish rather lamely , `` like some folk I know , I suppose I would n't be afraid . ''
Old Mr. Toad look up sharply when Danny mention homely and ugly-looking people , but Danny be gaze far out across the Green Meadows and look so innocent that Mr. Toad conclude that he could n't have have him in mind .
`` Well , '' say he , thoughtfully scratch his nose , `` I suppose you may be right , but for my part fear seem a very foolish thing .
Now , I do n't know what it be .
I mind my own business , and no one ever bother me .
I should think it would be a very uncomfortable feeling . ''
`` It be , '' reply Danny , `` but , a I say before , it be a very good thing to keep one on guard when there be a many watch for one a there be for me .
Now there 's Mr. Blacksnake and -- '' `` Where ? ''
exclaim old Mr. Toad , turn as pale a a toad can turn , and look uneasily and anxiously in every direction .
Danny turn his head to hide a smile .
If old Mr. Toad be n't show fear , no one ever do .
`` Oh , '' say he , `` I do n't mean that he be anywhere around here now .
What I be go to say be that there be Mr. Blacksnake and Granny Fox and Reddy Fox and Redtail the Hawk and Hooty the Owl and others I might name , always watch for a chance to make a dinner from poor little me .
Do you wonder that I be afraid most of the time ? ''
`` No , '' reply old Mr. Toad .
`` No , I do n't wonder that you be afraid .
It must be dreadful to feel hungry eye be watch for you every minute of the day and night , too . ''
`` Oh , it 's not so bad , '' reply Danny .
`` It 's rather exciting .
Besides , it keep my wit sharp all the time .
I be afraid I should find life very dull indeed if , like you , I fear nothing and nobody .
By the way , see how queerly that grass be move over there .
It look a if Mr. Blacksnake -- Why , Mr. Toad , where be you go in such a hurry ? ''
`` I 've just remember an important engagement with my cousin , Grandfather Frog , at the Smiling Pool , '' shout old Mr. Toad over his shoulder , a he hurry so that he fell over his own foot .
Danny chuckle a he sit alone on his doorstep .
`` Oh , no , old Mr. Toad do n't know what fear be ! ''
say he .
`` Funny how some people wo n't admit what everybody can see for themselves .
Now , I be afraid , and I 'm willing to say so . ''
CHAPTER XXI An Exciting Day for Danny Meadow Mouse Danny Meadow Mouse start along one of his private little paths very early one morning .
He be on his way to get a supply of a certain kind of grass seed of which he be very fond .
He have be think about that seed for some time and wait for it to get ripe .
Now it be just right , a he have find out the day before by a visit to the place where this particular grass grow .
The only trouble be it grow a long way from Danny 's home , and to reach it he have to cross an open place where the grass be so short that he could n't make a path under it .
`` I feel it in my bone that this be go to be an exciting day , '' say Danny to himself a he trot along .
`` I suppose that if I be really wise , I would stay nearer home and do without that nice seed .
But nothing be really worth have unless it be worth work for , and that seed will taste all the good if I have hard work get it . ''
So he trot along his private little path , his ear wide open , and his eye wide open , and his little nose carefully test every Merry Little Breeze who happen along for any scent of danger which it might carry .
Most of all he depend upon his ear , for the grass be so tall that he could n't see over it , even when he sit up .
He have go only a little way when he think he hear a queer rustle behind him .
He stop to listen .
There it be again , and it certainly be right in the path behind him !
He do n't need to be tell who be make it .
There be only one who could make such a sound a that -- Mr. Blacksnake .
Now Danny can run very fast along his private little path , but he know that Mr. Blacksnake could run faster .
`` If my leg ca n't save me , my wit must , '' think Danny a he start to run as fast a ever he could .
`` I must reach that fall old hollow fence-post . ''
He be almost out of breath when he reach the post and scurry into the open end .
He know by the sound of the rustling that Mr. Blacksnake be right at his heel .
Now the old post be hollow it whole length , but halfway there be an old knot-hole just big enough for Danny to squeeze through .
Mr. Blacksnake do n't know anything about that hole ; and because it be dark inside the old post , he do n't see Danny pop through it .
Danny run back along the top of the log and be just in time to see the tip of Mr. Blacksnake 's tail disappear inside .
Then what do you think Danny do ?
Why , he follow Mr. Blacksnake right into the old post , but in do it he do n't make the least little bit of noise .
Mr. Blacksnake keep right on through the old post and out the other end , for he be sure that that be the way Danny have go .
He keep right on along the little path .
Now Danny know that he would n't go very far before he find out that he have be fool , and of course he would come back .
So Danny wait only long enough to get his breath and then run back along the path to where another little path branch off .
For just a minute he pause .
`` If Mr. Blacksnake follow me , he will be sure to think that of course I have take this other little path , '' think Danny , `` so I wo n't do it . ''
Then he run hard than ever , until he come to a place where two little path branch off , one to the right and one to the left .
He take the latter and scamper on , sure that by this time Mr. Blacksnake would be so badly fool that he would give up the chase .
And Danny be right .
`` Brains be well far than speed As wise men long ago agree , '' say Danny , a he trot on his way for the grass seed he like so well .
`` I felt it in my bone that this would be an exciting day .
I wonder what next . ''
CHAPTER XXII What Happened Next to Danny Meadow Mouse Danny be so used to narrow escape that he do n't waste any time think about them .
He do n't this time .
`` He who try to look two way at once be pretty sure to see nothing , '' say Danny , and he know that if he think too much about the thing that have already happen , he could n't keep a sharp watch for the thing that might happen .
Nothing more happened a he hurry along his private little path to the edge of a great patch of grass so short that he could n't hide under it .
He have to cross this , and all the way he would be in plain sight of anyone who happen to be near .
Very cautiously he peep out and look this way and look that way , not forget to look up in the sky .
He could see no one anywhere .
Drawing a long breath , Danny start across the open place as fast a his short leg could take him .
Now all the time , Redtail the Hawk have be sit in a tree some distance away , sit so still that he look like a part of the tree itself .
That be why Danny have n't see him .
But Redtail saw Danny the instant he start across the open place , for Redtail 's eye be very keen , and he can see a great distance .
With a satisfied chuckle , he spread his broad wing and start after Danny .
Just about halfway to the safety of the long grass on the other side , Danny give a hurried look behind him , and his heart seem to jump right into his mouth , for there be Redtail with his cruel claw already set to seize him !
Danny give a frightened squeak , for he think that surely this time he would be catch .
But he do n't mean to give up without try to escape .
Three jump ahead of him be a queer-looking thing .
He do n't know what it be , but if there be a hole in it he might yet fool Redtail .
One jump !
Would he be able to reach it ?
Two jump !
There be a hole in it !
Three jump !
With another frightened squeak , Danny dive into the opening just in time .
And what do you think he be in ?
Why , an old tomato can Farmer Brown 's boy have once use to carry bait in when he go fish at the Smiling Pool .
He have drop it there on his way home .
Redtail scream with rage and disappointment a he strike the old can with his great claw .
He have be sure , very sure of Danny Meadow Mouse this time !
He try to pick the can up , but he could n't get hold of it .
It just roll away from him every time , try a he would .
Finally , in disgust , he give up and fly back to the tree from which he have first see Danny .
-LSB- Illustration : Redtail the Hawk scream with rage a Danny escape . -RSB-
Of course Danny have be terribly frighten when the can roll , and by the noise the claw of Redtail make when they strike his queer hiding-place .
But he wisely decide that the best thing he could do be to stay there for a while .
And it be very fortunate that he do so , a he be very soon to find out .
CHAPTER XXIII Reddy Fox Grows Curious Danny Meadow Mouse have sit perfectly still for a long time inside the old tomato can in which he have find a refuge from Redtail the Hawk .
He do n't dare so much a put his head out for a look around , l Redtail should be circle overhead ready to pounce on him .
`` If I stay here long enough , he 'll get tired and go away , if he have n't already , '' think Danny .
`` This have be a pretty exciting morning so far , and I find that I be a little tired .
I may as well take a nap while I be wait to make sure that the way be clear . ''
With that Danny curl up in the old tomato can .
But it be n't mean that Danny should have that nap .
He have close his eye , but his ear be still open , and presently he hear soft footstep draw near .
His eye fly open , and he forget all about sleep , you may be sure , for those footstep sound familiar .
They sound to Danny very , very much like the footstep of -- whom do you think ?
Why , Reddy Fox !
Danny 's heart begin to beat faster a he listen .
Could it be ?
He do n't dare peep out .
Presently a little whiff of scent blew into the old tomato can .
Then Danny know -- it be Reddy Fox .
`` Oh , dear !
I hope he do n't find that I be in here ! ''
think Danny .
`` I wonder what under the sun have bring him up here just now . ''
If the truth be to be know , it be curiosity that have bring Reddy up there .
Reddy have be hunt for his breakfast some distance away on the Green Meadows when Redtail the Hawk have try so hard to catch Danny Meadow Mouse .
Reddy 's sharp eye have see Redtail the minute he leave the tree in pursuit of Danny , and he have know by the way Redtail fly that he saw something he want to catch .
He have watch Redtail swoop down and have hear his scream of rage when he miss Danny because Danny have dodge into the old tomato can .
He have see Redtail strike and strike again at something on the ground , and finally fly off in disgust with empty claw .
`` Now , I wonder what it be Redtail be after and why he do n't get it , '' think Reddy .
`` He act terribly put out and disappointed .
I believe I 'll go over there and find out . ''
Off he start at a smart trot towards the patch of short grass where he have see Redtail the Hawk striking at something on the ground .
As he draw near , he creep very softly until he reach the very edge of the open patch .
There he stop and look sharply all over it .
There be nothing to be see but an old tomato can .
Reddy have see it many time before .
`` Now what under the sun could Redtail have be after here ? ''
think Reddy .
`` The grass be n't long enough for a grasshopper to hide in , and yet Redtail do n't get what he be after .
It 's very queer .
It certainly be very queer . ''
He trot out and begin to run back and forth with his nose to the ground , hop that his nose would tell him what his eye could n't .
Back and forth , back and forth he run , and then suddenly he stop .
`` Ha ! ''
exclaim Reddy .
He have find the scent leave by Danny Meadow Mouse when he run across towards the old tomato can .
Right up to the old can Reddy 's nose lead him .
He hop over the old can , but on the other side he could find no scent of Danny Meadow Mouse .
In a flash he understand , and a gleam of satisfaction shone in his yellow eye a he turn back to the old can .
He know that Danny must be hide in there .
`` I 've get you this time ! ''
he snarl , a he sniff at the opening in the end of the can .
CHAPTER XXIV Reddy Fox Loses His Temper Reddy Fox have catch Danny Meadow Mouse , and yet he have n't catch him .
He have find Danny hide in the old tomato can , and it do n't enter Reddy 's head that he could n't get Danny out when he want to .
He be in no hurry .
He have have a pretty good breakfast of grasshopper , and so he think he would torment Danny a while before gobble him up .
He lay down so that he could peep in at the open end of the old can and see Danny try to make himself as small a possible at the other end .
Reddy grin until he show all his long teeth .
Reddy always be a bully , especially when his victim be a great deal small and weak than himself .
`` I 've get you this time , Mr. Smarty , have n't I ? ''
taunt Reddy .
Danny do n't say anything .
`` You think you 've be very clever because you have fool me two or three time , do n't you ?
Well , this time I 've get you where your trick wo n't work , '' continue Reddy , `` so what be you go to do about it ? ''
Danny do n't answer .
The fact be , he be too frighten to answer .
Besides , he do n't know what he could do .
So he just keep still , but his bright eye never once leave Reddy 's cruel face .
For all his fright , Danny be do some hard thinking .
He have be in tight place before and have learn never to give up hope .
Something might happen to frighten Reddy away .
Anyway , Reddy have to get him out of that old can before he would admit that he be really catch .
For a long time Reddy lay there lick his chop and say all the thing he could think of to frighten poor Danny Meadow Mouse .
At last he grow tire of this and make up his mind that it be time to end it and Danny Meadow Mouse at the same time .
He thrust his sharp nose in at the opening in the end of the old can , but the opening be too small for him to get more than his nose in , and he only scratch it on the sharp edge without so much a touch Danny .
`` I 'll pull you out , '' say Reddy and thrust in one black paw .
Danny promptly bite it so hard that Reddy yelp with pain and pull it out in a hurry .
Presently he try again with the other paw .
Danny bit this one harder still , and Reddy dance with pain and anger .
Then he lose his temper completely , a very foolish thing to do , a it always be .
He hit the old can , and away it roll with Danny Meadow Mouse inside .
This seem to make Reddy angry than ever .
He spring after it and hit it again .
Then he bat it first this way and then that way , grow angry and angry .
And all the time Danny Meadow Mouse manage to keep inside , although he get a terrible shake up .
Back and forth across the patch of short grass Reddy knock the old can , and he be in such a rage that he do n't notice where he be knock it to .
Finally he send it spin into the long grass on the far side of the open patch , close to one of Danny 's private little path .
Like a flash Danny be out and scurry along the little path .
He dodge into another and presently into a third , which bring him to a tangle of barbed wire leave there by Farmer Brown when he have build a new fence .
Under this he be safe .
`` Phew ! ''
exclaim Danny , breathe very hard .
`` That be the narrow escape yet !
But I guess I 'll get that special grass seed I start out for , after all . ''
And he do , while to this day Reddy Fox wonder how Danny get out of the old tomato can without his know it .
And so you see what temper do For those who give it rein ; It cheat them of the very thing They seek so hard to gain .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Grandfather_Frog.txt.out
I BILLY MINK FINDS LITTLE JOE OTTER Billy Mink run around the edge of the Smiling Pool and turn down by the Laughing Brook .
His eye twinkle with mischief , and he hurry a only Billy can .
As he pass Jerry Muskrat 's house , Jerry saw him .
`` Hi , Billy Mink !
Where be you go in such a hurry this fine morning ? ''
he call .
`` To find Little Joe Otter .
Have you see anything of him ? ''
reply Billy .
`` No , '' say Jerry .
`` He 's probably down to the Big River fishing .
I hear him say last night that he be go . ''
`` Thanks , '' say Billy Mink , and without wait to say more he be off like a little brown flash .
Jerry watch him out of sight .
`` Hump ! ''
exclaim Jerry .
`` Billy Mink be in a terrible hurry this morning .
Now I wonder what he be so anxious to find Little Joe Otter for .
When they get their head together , it be usually for some mischief . ''
Jerry climb to the top of his house and look over the Smiling Pool in the direction from which Billy Mink have just come .
Almost at once he saw Grandfather Frog fast asleep on his big green lily-pad .
The leg of a foolish green fly be stick out of one corner of his big mouth .
Jerry could n't help laughing , for Grandfather Frog certainly do look funny .
`` He 's have a good breakfast this morning , and his full stomach have make him sleepy , '' think Jerry .
`` But he 's get careless in his old age .
He certainly be get careless .
The idea of go to sleep right out in plain sight like that ! ''
Suddenly a new thought pop into his head .
`` Billy Mink saw him , and that be why he be so anxious to find Little Joe Otter .
He be plan to play some trick on Grandfather Frog as sure a pollywog have tail ! ''
exclaim Jerry .
Then his eye begin to twinkle a he add : `` I think I 'll have some fun myself . ''
Without another word Jerry slip down into the water and swam over to the big green lily-pad of Grandfather Frog .
Then he hit the water a smart blow with his tail .
Grandfather Frog 's big goggly eye fly open , and he be just about to make a frightened plunge into the Smiling Pool when he saw Jerry .
`` Have a nice nap ? ''
inquired Jerry , with a broad grin .
`` I be n't asleep ! ''
protest Grandfather Frog indignantly .
`` I be just think . ''
`` Do n't you think it a rather dangerous plan to think so long with your eye close ? ''
ask Jerry .
`` Well , maybe I do just doze off , '' admit Grandfather Frog sheepishly .
`` Maybe you do , '' reply Jerry .
`` Now listen . ''
Then Jerry whisper in Grandfather Frog 's ear , and both chuckle a if they be enjoy some joke , for they be great friend , you know .
Afterward Jerry swim back to his house , and Grandfather Frog close his eye so a to look just a he do when he be asleep .
Meanwhile Billy Mink have hurry down the Laughing Brook .
Half-way to the Big River he meet Little Joe Otter bring home a big fish , for you know Little Joe be a great fisherman .
Billy Mink hasten to tell him how Grandfather Frog have fall fast asleep on his big green lily-pad .
`` It 's a splendid chance to have some fun with Grandfather Frog and give him a great scare , '' conclude Billy .
Little Joe Otter put his fish down and grin .
He like to play prank almost as well a he like to go fishing .
`` What can we do ? ''
say he .
`` I 've think of a plan , '' reply Billy .
`` Do you happen to know where we can find Longlegs the Blue Heron ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Little Joe .
`` I saw him fish not five minute ago . ''
Then Billy tell Little Joe his plan , and laugh and giggling , the two little scamp hurry off to find Longlegs the Blue Heron .
II LONGLEGS THE BLUE HERON RECEIVES CALLERS Longlegs the Blue Heron felt decidedly out of sort .
It be a beautiful morning , too beautiful for any one to be feel that way .
Indeed , it be the same beautiful morning in which Grandfather Frog have catch so many foolish green fly .
Jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun be smile his broad .
The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind be dance happily here and there over the Green Meadows , look for some good turn to do for others .
The little feathered people to whom Old Mother Nature have give the great blessing of music in their throat be pour out their sweet song .
So it seem a if there be no good reason why Longlegs should feel out of sort .
The fact be the trouble with Longlegs be an empty stomach .
Yes , Sir , that be what ail Longlegs the Blue Heron that sunshiny morning .
You know it be hard work to be hungry and happy at the same time .
So Longlegs stand on the edge of a shallow little pool in the Laughing Brook , grumble to himself .
Just a little while before , he have see Little Joe Otter carry home a big fish , and this have make him hungry and more out of sort than ever .
In the first place it make him envious , and envy , you know , always stir up bad feeling .
He know perfectly well that Little Joe have get that fish by boldly chase it until he catch it , for Little Joe can swim even faster than a fish .
But Longlegs choose to try to make himself think that it be all luck .
Moreover , he want to blame some one for his own lack of success , a most people who fail do .
So when Little Joe have call out : `` Hi , Longlegs , what luck this fine morning ? ''
Longlegs just pretend not to hear .
But when Little Joe be out of sight and hearing , he begin to grumble to himself .
`` No wonder I have no luck with that fellow race up and down the Laughing Brook , '' say he .
`` He be n't content to catch what he want himself , but frighten the rest of the fish so that an honest fisherman like me have no chance at all .
I do n't see what Old Mother Nature be think of when she give him a liking for fish .
He and Billy Mink be just two worthless little scamp , bear to make trouble for other people . ''
He be still grumble when these two same little scamp poke their head out of the grass on the other side of the little pool .
`` You look happy , Longlegs .
Must be that you have have a good breakfast , '' say Little Joe , nudge Billy Mink .
Longlegs snap his great bill angrily .
`` What be you do here , spoil my fishing ? ''
he demand .
`` Have n't you get the Big River and all the rest of the Laughing Brook to fool around in ?
This be my pool , and I 'll thank you to keep away ! ''
Billy Mink chuckle so that Longlegs hear him , and that do n't improve his temper a bit .
But before he could say anything more , Little Joe Otter speak .
`` Oh , '' say he , `` we beg your pardon .
We just happen to know that Grandfather Frog be sound asleep , and we think that if you have n't have good luck this morning , you might like to know about it .
As long a you think so ill of u , we 'll just run over and tell Blackcap the Night Heron . ''
Little Joe turn a if to start off in search of Blackcap at once .
`` Hold on a minute ! ''
call Longlegs , and try to make his voice sound pleasant , a difficult thing to do , because , you know , his voice be very harsh and disagreeable .
`` The truth be , I have n't have a mouthful of breakfast and to be hungry be apt to make me cross .
Where do you say Grandfather Frog be ? ''
`` I do n't say , '' reply Little Joe , `` but if you really want to know , he be sit on his big green lily-pad in the Smiling Pool fast asleep right in plain sight . ''
`` Thank you , '' say Longlegs .
`` I believe I have an errand up that way , now I think of it .
I believe I 'll just go over and have a look at him .
I have never see him asleep . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` Thank you , '' say Longlegs .
`` I believe I have an errand up that way . ''
Page 10 . -RSB-
III LONGLEGS VISITS THE SMILING POOL Longlegs the Blue Heron watch Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter disappear down the Laughing Brook .
As long a they be in sight , he sit without move , his head draw down between his shoulder just a if he have nothing more important to think about than a morning nap .
But if you have be near enough to have see his keen eye , you would never have suspect him of even think of a nap .
Just as soon a he felt sure that the two little brown-coated scamp be out of sight , he stretch his long neck up until he be almost twice as tall a he have be a minute before .
He look this way and that way to make sure that no danger be near , spread his great wing , flap heavily up into the air , and then , with his head once more tucked back between his shoulder and his long leg straight out behind him , he fly out over the Green Meadows , and make a big circle , head straight for the Smiling Pool .
All this time Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter have not be so far away a Longlegs suppose .
They have be hide where they could watch him , and the instant he spread his wing , they start back up the Laughing Brook towards the Smiling Pool to see what would happen there .
You see they know perfectly well that Longlegs be fly up to the Smiling Pool in the hope that he could catch Grandfather Frog for his breakfast .
They do n't really mean that any harm should come to Grandfather Frog , but they mean that he should have a great fright .
You see , they be like a great many other people , so heedless and thoughtless that they think it fun to frighten others .
`` Of course we 'll waken Grandfather Frog in time for him to get away with nothing more than a great scare , '' say Little Joe Otter , a they hurry along .
`` It will be such fun to see his big goggly eye pop out when he open them and see Longlegs just ready to gobble him up !
And wo n't Longlegs be hop mad when we cheat him out of the breakfast he be so sure he be go to have ! ''
They reach the Smiling Pool before Longlegs , who have take a roundabout way , and they hide among the bulrush where they could see and not be see .
`` There 's the old fellow just a I leave him , fast asleep , '' whisper Billy Mink .
Sure enough , there on his big green lily-pad sat Grandfather Frog with his eye shut .
At least , they seem to be shut .
And over on top of his big house sit Jerry Muskrat .
Jerry seem to be too busy open a fresh-water clam to notice anything else ; but the truth be he be watch all that be go on .
You see , he have suspect that Billy Mink be go to play some trick on Grandfather Frog , so he have warn him .
When he have see Longlegs come towards the Smiling Pool , he have give Grandfather Frog another warning , and he know that now he be only pretend to be asleep .
Straight up to the Smiling Pool come Longlegs the Blue Heron , and on the very edge of it , among the bulrush , he drop his long leg and stood with his toe in the water , his long neck stretch up so that he could look all over the Smiling Pool .
There , just a Little Joe Otter have say , sit Grandfather Frog on his big green lily-pad , fast asleep .
At least , he seem to be fast asleep .
The eye of Longlegs sparkle with hunger and the thought of what a splendid breakfast Grandfather Frog would make .
Very slowly , put each foot down as carefully a he know how , Longlegs begin to walk along the shore so a to get opposite the big green lily-pad where Grandfather Frog be sit .
And over in the bulrush on the other side , Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink nudge each other and clap their hand over their mouth to keep from laugh aloud .
IV THE PATIENCE OF LONGLEGS THE BLUE HERON Patience often win the day When over-haste have lose the way .
If there be one virtue which Longlegs the Heron posse above another it be patience .
Yes , Sir , Longlegs certainly have get patience .
He believe that if a thing be worth have , it be worth wait for , and that if he wait long enough , he be sure to get it .
Perhaps that be because he have be a fisherman all his life , and his father and his grandfather be fisherman .
You know a fisherman without patience rarely catch anything .
Of course Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter laugh at this and say that it be n't so , but the truth be they sometimes go hungry when they would n't if they have a little of the patience of Longlegs .
Now Grandfather Frog be another who be very , very patient .
He can sit still the long time wait for something to come to him .
Indeed , he can sit perfectly still so long , and Longlegs can stand perfectly still so long , that Jerry Muskrat and Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter have have many long dispute a to which of the two can keep still the long .
`` He will make a splendid breakfast , '' think Longlegs , a very , very carefully he walk along the edge of the Smiling Pool so a to get right opposite Grandfather Frog .
There he stop and look very hard at Grandfather Frog .
Yes , he certainly must be asleep , for his eye be close .
Longlegs chuckle to himself right down inside without make a sound , and get ready to wade out so a to get within reach .
Now all the time Grandfather Frog be do some quiet chuckle himself .
You see , he be n't asleep at all .
He be just pretend to be asleep , and all the time he be watch Longlegs out of a corner of one of his big goggly eye .
Very , very slowly and carefully , so a not to make the teeny , weeny sound , Longlegs lift one foot to wade out into the Smiling Pool .
Grandfather Frog pretend to yawn and open his big goggly eye .
Longlegs stand on one foot without move so much a a feather .
Grandfather Frog yawn again , nod a if he be too sleepy to keep awake , and half close his eye .
Longlegs wait and wait .
Then , little by little , so slowly that if you have be there you would hardly have see him move , he draw his long neck down until his head rest on his shoulder .
`` I guess I must wait until he fall sound asleep again , '' say Longlegs to himself .
But Grandfather Frog do n't go to sleep .
He would nod and nod and then , just when Longlegs would make up his mind that this time he really be asleep , open would pop Grandfather Frog 's eye .
So all the long morning Longlegs stand on one foot without move , watch and wait and grow hungry and hungry , and all the long morning Grandfather Frog sit on his big green lily-pad , pretend that he be oh , so sleepy , and all the time have such a comfortable sun-bath and rest , for very early he have have a good breakfast of foolish green fly .
Over in the bulrush on the other side of the Smiling Pool two little scamp in brown bath suit wait and watch for the great fright they have plan for Grandfather Frog , when they have send Longlegs to try to catch him .
They be Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter .
At first they laugh to themselves and nudge each other at the thought of the trick they have play .
Then , a nothing happen , they begin to grow tired and uneasy .
You see they do not possess patience .
Finally they give up in disgust and steal away to find some more exciting sport .
Grandfather Frog saw them go and chuckle hard than ever to himself .
V GRANDFATHER FROG JUMPS JUST IN TIME Back and forth over the Green Meadows sail Whitetail the Marsh Hawk .
Like Longlegs the Blue Heron , he be hungry .
His sharp eye peer down among the grass , look for something to eat , but some good fairy seem to have warn the very little people who live there that Whitetail be out hunting .
Perhaps it be one of Old Mother West Wind 's child , the Merry Little Breezes .
You know they be always flit about try to do some one a good turn .
They love to dance and romp and play From dawn to dusk the livelong day , But more than this they love to find A chance to do some favor kind .
Anyway , little Mr. Green Snake seem to know that Whitetail be out hunting and manage to keep out of sight .
Danny Meadow Mouse be n't to be find .
Only a few foolish grasshopper reward his patient search , and these only serve to make him feel hungrier than ever .
But old Whitetail have a great deal of persistence , and in spite of his bad luck , he keep at his hunting , back and forth , back and forth , until he have be all over the Green Meadows .
At last he make up his mind that he be waste time there .
`` I 'll just have a look over at the Smiling Pool , and if there be nothing there , I 'll take a turn or two along the Big River , '' think he and straightway start for the Smiling Pool .
Long before he reach it , his keen eye saw Longlegs the Blue Heron stand motionless on the edge of it , and he know by the look of Longlegs that he be watch something which he hop to catch .
`` If it 's a fish , '' think Whitetail , `` it will do me no good , for I be no fisherman .
But if it 's a Frog -- well , Frogs be not a good eating a fat Meadow Mice , but they be very filling . ''
With that he hurry a little faster , and then he saw what Longlegs be watch so intently .
It be , a you know , Grandfather Frog sit on his big green lily-pad .
Old Whitetail give a great sigh of satisfaction .
Grandfather Frog certainly would be very filling , very filling , indeed .
Now Longlegs the Blue Heron be so intently watch Grandfather Frog that he saw nothing else , and Grandfather Frog be so busy watch Longlegs that he quite forget that there might be other danger .
Besides , his back be toward old Whitetail .
Of course Whitetail saw this , and it make him almost chuckle aloud .
Ever so many time he have try to catch Grandfather Frog , but always Grandfather Frog have see him long before he could get near him .
Now , with all his keen sight , old Whitetail have fail to see some one else who be sit right in plain sight .
He have fail because his mind be so full of Grandfather Frog and Longlegs that he forget to look around , a he usually do .
Just skim the top of the bulrush he sail swiftly out over the Smiling Pool and reach down with his great , cruel claw to clutch Grandfather Frog , who sit there pretend to be asleep , but all the time watch Longlegs and deep down inside chuckle to think how he be fool Longlegs .
Slap !
That be the tail of Jerry Muskrat hit the water .
Grandfather Frog know what that meant -- danger !
He do n't know what the danger be , and he do n't wait to find out .
There would be time enough for that later .
When Jerry Muskrat slap the water with his tail that way , danger be very near indeed .
With a frightened `` Chugarum ! ''
Grandfather Frog dive head first into the Smiling Pool , and so close be old Whitetail that the water be splash right in his face .
He clutch frantically with his great claw , but all he get be a piece of the big green lily-pad on which Grandfather Frog have be sit , and of course this be of no use for an empty stomach .
With a scream of disappointment and anger , he whirl in the air and make straight for Jerry Muskrat .
But Jerry just laugh in the most provoking way and duck under water .
VI LONGLEGS AND WHITETAIL QUARREL `` You do ! ''
`` I do n't !
I do n't ! ''
`` You do ! ''
Such a terrible fuss when Grandfather hid !
You see Longlegs the Blue Heron have stand very patiently on one foot all the long morning wait for Grandfather Frog to go to sleep on his big green lily-pad .
He have felt sure he be to have Grandfather Frog for his breakfast and lunch , for he have have no breakfast , and it be now lunch time .
He be so hungry that it seem to him that the side of his stomach certainly would fall in because there be nothing to hold them up , and then , without any warning at all , old Whitetail the Marsh Hawk have glide out across the Smiling Pool with his great claw stretch out to clutch Grandfather Frog , and Grandfather Frog have dive into the Smiling Pool with a great splash just in the very nick of time .
Now be there anything in the world so hard on the temper a to lose a good meal when you be very , very , very hungry ?
Of course Longlegs do n't really have that good meal , but he have think that he be surely go to have it .
So when Grandfather Frog splash into the Smiling Pool , of course Longlegs lose his temper altogether .
His yellow eye seem to grow even more yellow .
`` You robber !
You thief ! ''
he scream harshly at old Whitetail .
Now old Whitetail be just as hungry a Longlegs , and he have come even near to catch Grandfather Frog .
He be even quick temper than Longlegs .
He have whirl like a flash on Jerry Muskrat , but Jerry have just laugh in the most provoking manner and duck under water .
This have make old Whitetail angrier than ever , and then to be call bad name -- robber and thief !
It be more than any self-respecting Hawk could stand .
Yes , Sir , it certainly be !
He fairly shake with rage a he turn in the air once more and make straight for Longlegs the Blue Heron .
`` I 'm no more robber and thief than you be ! ''
he shriek .
`` You frighten away my Frog ! ''
scream Longlegs .
`` I do n't ! ''
`` You do ! ''
`` I do n't !
It be n't your Frog ; it be mine ! ''
`` Chugarum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog to Jerry Muskrat , a they peep out from under some lily-pads .
`` I do n't know I belong to anybody .
I really do n't .
Did you ? ''
`` No , '' reply Jerry , his eye sparkle with excitement a he watch Longlegs and Whitetail , `` it 's news to me . ''
`` You 're too lazy to hunt like honest people ! ''
taunt old Whitetail , a he wheel around Longlegs , watch for a chance to strike with his great , cruel claw .
`` I 'm too honest to take the food out of other people 's mouth ! ''
retort Longlegs , dance around so a always to face Whitetail , one of his great , broad wing hold in front of him like a shield , and his long , strong bill ready to strike .
Every feather on Whitetail 's head be stand erect with rage , and he look very fierce and terrible .
At last he saw a chance , or think he do , and shoot down .
But all he get be a feather from that great wing which Longlegs keep in front of him , and before he could get away , that long bill have strike him twice , so that he scream with pain .
So they fight and fight , till the ground be cover with feather , and they be too tire to fight any long .
Then , slowly and painfully , old Whitetail fly away over the Green Meadows , and with torn and ragged wing , Longlegs fly heavily down the Laughing Brook towards the Big River , and both be sore and stiff and still hungry .
`` Dear me !
Dear me !
What a terrible thing and how useless anger be , '' say Grandfather Frog , a he climb back on his big green lily-pad in the warm sunshine .
VII GRANDFATHER FROG 'S BIG MOUTH GETS HIM IN TROUBLE Grandfather Frog have a great big mouth .
You know that .
Everybody do .
His friend of the Smiling Pool , the Laughing Brook , and the Green Meadows have tease Grandfather Frog a great deal about the size of his mouth , but he have n't mind in the least , not the very least .
You see , he learn a long time ago that a big mouth be very handy for catch foolish green fly , especially when two happen to come along together .
So he be rather proud of his big mouth , just a he be of his goggly eye .
But once in a while his big mouth get him into trouble .
It 's a way big mouth have .
It hold so much that it make him greedy sometimes .
He stuff it full after his stomach already have all that it can hold , and then of course he ca n't swallow .
Then Grandfather Frog look very foolish and silly and undignified , and everybody call him a greedy fellow who be old enough to know good and who ought to be ashamed of himself .
Perhaps he be , but he never say so , and he be almost sure to do the same thing over again the first chance he have .
Now it happen that one morning when Grandfather Frog have have a very good breakfast of foolish green fly and really do n't need another single thing to eat , who should come along but Little Joe Otter , who have be down to the Big River fishing .
He have eat all he could hold , and he be take the rest of his catch to a secret hiding-place up the Laughing Brook .
Now Grandfather Frog be very fond of fish for a change , and when he saw those that Little Joe Otter have , his eye glisten , and in spite of his full stomach his mouth water .
`` Good morning , Grandfather Frog !
Have you have your breakfast yet ? ''
call Little Joe Otter .
Grandfather Frog want to say no , but he always tell the truth .
`` Ye-e-s , '' he reply .
`` I 've have my breakfast , such a it be .
Why do you ask ? ''
`` Oh , for no reason in particular .
I just think that if you have n't , you might like a fish .
But as long a you have breakfast , of course you do n't want one , '' say Little Joe , his bright eye begin to twinkle .
He hold the fish out so that Grandfather Frog could see just how plump and nice they be .
`` Chugarum ! ''
exclaim Grandfather Frog .
`` Those certainly be very nice fish , very nice fish indeed .
It be very nice of you to think of a poor old fellow like me , and I -- er -- well , I might find room for just a little teeny , weeny one , if you can spare it . ''
Little Joe Otter know all about Grandfather Frog 's greediness .
He look at Grandfather Frog 's white and yellow waistcoat and saw how it be already stuff full to burst .
The twinkle in his eye grow more mischievous than ever a he say : `` Of course I can .
But I would n't think of give such an old friend a teeny , weeny one . ''
With that , Little Joe pick out the big fish he have and toss it over to Grandfather Frog .
It land close by his nose with a great splash , and it be almost half as big a Grandfather Frog himself .
It be plump and look so tempting that Grandfather Frog forget all about his full stomach .
He even forget to be polite and thank Little Joe Otter .
He just open his great mouth and seize the fish .
Yes , Sir , that be just what he do .
Almost before you could wink an eye , the fish have start down Grandfather Frog 's throat head first .
Now you know Grandfather Frog have no teeth , and so he can not bite thing in two .
He have to swallow them whole .
That be just what he start to do with the fish .
It go all right until the head reach his stomach .
But you ca n't put anything more into a thing already full , and Grandfather Frog 's stomach be pack as full a it could be of foolish green fly .
There the fish stuck , and gulp and swallow as hard a he could , Grandfather Frog could n't make that fish go a bit far .
Then he try to get it out again , but it have go so far down his throat that he could n't get it back .
Grandfather Frog begin to choke .
VIII SPOTTY THE TURTLE PLAYS DOCTOR Greed 's a dreadful thing to see , As everybody will agree .
At first Little Joe Otter , sit on the bank of the Smiling Pool , laugh himself almost sick a he watch Grandfather Frog try to swallow a fish almost as big a himself , when his white and yellow waistcoat be already stuff so full of foolish green fly that there be n't room for anything more .
Such greed would have be disgust , if it have n't be so very , very funny .
At least , it be funny at first , for the fish have stick , with the tail hang out of Grandfather Frog 's big mouth .
Grandfather Frog hitch this way and hitch that way on his big green lily-pad , try his best to swallow .
Twice he tumble off with a splash into the Smiling Pool .
Each time he scramble back again and roll his great goggly eye in silent appeal to Little Joe Otter to come to his aid .
-LSB- Illustration : As soon a they saw Grandfather Frog , they begin to laugh , too .
Page 37 .
-RSB- But Little Joe be laugh so that he have to hold his side , and he do n't understand that Grandfather Frog really be in trouble .
Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat come along , and as soon a they saw Grandfather Frog , they begin to laugh , too .
They just laugh and laugh and laugh until the tear come .
They roll over and over on the bank and kick their heel from sheer enjoyment .
It be the funny thing they have see for a long , long time .
`` Did you ever see such greed ? ''
gasp Billy Mink .
`` Why do n't you pull it out and start over again ? ''
shout Little Joe Otter .
Now this be just what Grandfather Frog be try to do .
At least , he be try to pull the fish out .
He have n't the least desire in the world to try swallow it again .
In fact , he felt just then a if he never , never want to see another fish so long a he live .
But Grandfather Frog 's hand be not make for grasp slippery thing , and the tail of a fish be very slippery indeed .
He try first with one hand , then with the other , and at last with both .
It be of no use at all .
He just could n't budge that fish .
He could n't cough it up , because it have go too far down for that .
The more he claw at that wave tail with his hand , the funnier he look , and the hard Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat laugh .
They make such a noise that Spotty the Turtle , who have be take a sun-bath on the end of an old log , slip into the water and start to see what it be all about .
Now Spotty the Turtle be very , very slow on land , but he be a good swimmer .
He hurry now because he do n't want to miss the fun .
At first he do n't see Grandfather Frog .
`` What 's the joke ? ''
he ask .
Little Joe Otter simply point to Grandfather Frog .
Little Joe have laugh so much that he could n't even speak .
Spotty look over to the big green lily-pad and start to laugh too .
Then he saw great tear roll down from Grandfather Frog 's eye and hear little choky sound .
He stop laugh and start for Grandfather Frog as fast a he could swim .
He climb right up on the big green lily-pad , and reach out , grab the end of the fish tail in his beak-like mouth .
Then Spotty the Turtle settle back and pull , and Grandfather Frog settle back and pull .
Splash !
Grandfather Frog have fall backward into the Smiling Pool on one side of the big green lily-pad .
Splash !
Spotty the Turtle have fall backward into the Smiling Pool on the opposite side of the big green lily-pad .
And the fish which have cause all the trouble lay float on the water .
`` Thank you !
Thank you ! ''
gasp Grandfather Frog , a he feebly crawl back on the lily-pad .
`` A minute more , and I would have choke to death . ''
`` Do n't mention it , '' reply Spotty the Turtle .
`` I never , never will , '' promise Grandfather Frog .
IX OLD MR. TOAD VISITS GRANDFATHER FROG Grandfather Frog and old Mr. Toad be cousin .
Of course you know that without be tell .
Everybody do .
But not everybody know that they be bear in the same place .
They be .
Yes , Sir , they be .
They be bear in the Smiling Pool .
Both have long tail and for a while no leg , and they play and swim together without ever go on shore .
In fact , when they be baby , they could n't live out of the water .
And people who saw them do n't know the difference between them and call them by the same name -- tadpole or pollywog .
But when they grow old enough to have leg and get along without tail , they part company .
You see , it be this way : Grandfather Frog -LRB- of course he be n't grandfather then -RRB- love the Smiling Pool so well that he could n't think of leave it .
He hear all about the Great World and what a wonderful place it be , but he could n't and would n't believe that there could be any nice place than the Smiling Pool , and so he make up his mind that he would live there always .
But Mr. Toad could hardly wait to get rid of his tail before turn his back on the Smiling Pool and start out to see the Great World .
Nothing that Grandfather Frog could say would stop him , and away Mr. Toad go , when he be so small that he could hide under a clover leaf .
Grandfather Frog do n't expect ever to see him again .
But he do , though it be n't for a long , long time .
And when he do come back , he have grow so that Grandfather Frog hardly know him at first .
And right then and there begin a dispute which they have keep up ever since : whether it be best to go out into the Great World or remain in the home of childhood .
Each be sure that what he have do be best , and each be sure of it to this day .
So whenever old Mr. Toad visit Grandfather Frog , a he do every once in a while , they be sure to argue and argue on this same old subject .
It be so on the day that Grandfather Frog have so nearly choke to death .
Old Mr. Toad have hear about it from one of the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind and right away have start for the Smiling Pool to pay his respect to Grandfather Frog , and to tell him how glad he be that Spotty the Turtle have come along just in time to pull the fish out of Grandfather Frog 's throat .
Now all day long Grandfather Frog have have to listen to unpleasant remark about his greediness .
It be such a splendid chance to tease him that everybody around the Smiling Pool take advantage of it .
Grandfather Frog take it good-naturedly at first , but after a while it make him cross , and by the time his cousin , old Mr. Toad , arrive , he be sulky and just grunt when Mr. Toad tell him how glad he be to find Grandfather Frog quite recover .
Old Mr. Toad pretend not to notice how out of sort Grandfather Frog be but keep right on talk .
`` If you have be out in the Great World as much a I have be , you would have know that Little Joe Otter be n't give you that fish for nothing , '' say he .
Grandfather Frog swell right out with anger .
`` Chugarum ! ''
he exclaim in his deepest , gruff voice .
`` Chugarum !
Go back to your Great World and learn to mind your own affair , Mr. Toad . ''
Right away old Mr. Toad begin to swell with anger too .
For a whole minute he glare at Grandfather Frog , so indignant he could n't find his tongue .
When he do find it , he say some very unpleasant thing , and right away they begin to dispute .
`` What good be you to anybody but yourself , never see anything of the Great World and not know anything about what be go on or what other people be do ? ''
ask old Mr. Toad .
`` I 'm mind my own affair and not meddle with thing that do n't concern me , as seem to be the way out in the Great World you be so fond of talk about , '' retort Grandfather Frog .
`` Wise people know enough to be content with what they have .
You 've be out in the Great World ever since you could hop , and what good have it do you ?
Tell me that !
You have n't even a decent suit of clothes to your back . ''
Grandfather Frog pat his white and yellow waistcoat a he speak and look admiringly at the reflection of his handsome green coat in the Smiling Pool .
Old Mr. Toad 's eye snap , for you know his suit be very plain and rough .
`` People who do honest work for their living have no time to sit about in fine clothes admire themselves , '' he reply sharply .
`` I 've learn this much out in the Great World , that lazy people come to no good end , and I know enough not to choke myself to death . ''
Grandfather Frog almost choke again , he be so angry .
You see old Mr. Toad 's remark be very personal , and nobody like personal remark when they be unpleasant , especially if they happen to be true .
Grandfather Frog be try his best to think of something sharp to say in reply , when Mr. Redwing , sit in the top of the big hickory-tree , shout : `` Here come Farmer Brown 's boy ! ''
Grandfather Frog forget his anger and begin to look anxious .
He move about uneasily on his big green lily-pad and get ready to dive into the Smiling Pool , for he be afraid that Farmer Brown 's boy have a pocketful of stone a he usually do have when he come over to the Smiling Pool .
Old Mr. Toad do n't look troubled the least bit .
He do n't even look around for a hiding-place .
He just sit still and grin .
`` You 'd better watch out , or you 'll never visit the Smiling Pool again , '' call Grandfather Frog .
`` Oh , '' reply old Mr. Toad , `` I 'm not afraid .
Farmer Brown 's boy be a friend of mine .
I help him in his garden .
How to make friend be one of the thing the Great World have teach me . ''
`` Chugarum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog .
`` I 'd have you to know that -- '' But what it be that he be to know old Mr. Toad never find out , for just then Grandfather Frog catch sight of Farmer Brown 's boy and without wait even to say good-by he dive into the Smiling Pool .
X GRANDFATHER FROG STARTS OUT TO SEE THE GREAT WORLD Grandfather Frog look very solemn a he sit on his big green lily-pad in the Smiling Pool .
He look very much a if he have something on his mind .
A foolish green fly actually brush Grandfather Frog 's nose and he do n't even notice it .
The fact be he do have something on his mind .
It have be there ever since his cousin , old Mr. Toad , have call the day before and they have quarrel as usual over the question whether it be best never to leave home or to go out into the Great World .
Right in the midst of their quarrel along have come Farmer Brown 's boy .
Now Grandfather Frog be afraid of Farmer Brown 's boy , so when he appear , Grandfather Frog stop argue with old Mr. Toad and with a great splash dive into the Smiling Pool and hide under a lily-pad .
There he stay and watch his cousin , old Mr. Toad , grin in the most provoking way , for he be n't afraid of Farmer Brown 's boy .
In fact , he have boast that they be friend .
Grandfather Frog have think that this be just an idle boast , but when he saw Farmer Brown 's boy tickle old Mr. Toad under his chin with a straw , while Mr. Toad sit perfectly still and seem to enjoy it , he know that it be true .
Grandfather Frog have not come out of his hiding-place until after old Mr. Toad have go back across the Green Meadows and Farmer Brown 's boy have go home for his supper .
Then Grandfather Frog have climb back on his big green lily-pad and have sit there half the night without once lead the chorus of the Smiling Pool with his great deep bass voice a he usually do .
He be think , think very hard .
And now , this bright , sunshiny morning , he be still think .
The fact be Grandfather Frog be begin to wonder if perhaps , after all , Mr. Toad be right .
If the Great World have teach him how to make friend with Farmer Brown 's boy , there really must be some thing worth learn there .
Not for the world would Grandfather Frog have admit to old Mr. Toad or to any one else that there be anything for him to learn , for you know he be very old and by his friend be accounted very wise .
But right down in his heart he be begin to think that perhaps there be some thing which he could n't learn in the Smiling Pool .
So he sit and think and think .
Suddenly he make up his mind .
`` Chugarum ! ''
say he .
`` I 'll do it ! ''
`` Do what ? ''
ask Jerry Muskrat , who happen to be swim past .
`` I 'll go out and see for myself what this Great World my cousin , old Mr. Toad , be so fond of talk about be like , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` Do n't you do it , '' advise Jerry Muskrat .
`` Do n't you do anything so foolish a that .
You 're too old , much too old , Grandfather Frog , to go out into the Great World . ''
Now few old people like to be tell that they be too old to do what they please , and Grandfather Frog be no different from others .
`` You just mind your own affair , Jerry Muskrat , '' he retort sharply .
`` I guess I know what be best for me without be tell .
If my cousin , old Mr. Toad , can take care of himself out in the Great World , I can .
He be n't half so spry a I be .
I 'm go , and that be all there be about it ! ''
With that Grandfather Frog dive into the Smiling Pool , swam across to a place where the bank be low , and without once look back start across the Green Meadows to see the Great World .
XI GRANDFATHER FROG IS STUBBORN `` Fee , fi , fe , fum !
Chug , chug , chugarum ! ''
Grandfather actually have start out to see the Great World .
Yes , Sir , he have turn his back on the Smiling Pool , and nothing that Jerry Muskrat could say make the least bit of difference .
Grandfather Frog have make up his mind , and when he do that , it be just a waste of time and breath for any one to try to make him change it .
You see Grandfather Frog be stubborn .
Yes , that be just the word -- stubborn .
He would see for himself what this Great World be that his cousin , old Mr. Toad , talk so much about and say be so much good than the Smiling Pool where Grandfather Frog have spend his whole life .
`` If old Mr. Toad can take care of himself , I can take care of myself out in the Great World , '' say Grandfather Frog , to himself a , with great jump , he start out on to the Green Meadows .
`` I guess he be n't any smart than I be !
He be n't half so spry a I be , and I can jump three time as far a he can .
I 'll see for myself what this Great World be like , and then I 'll go back to the Smiling Pool and stay there the rest of my life .
Chugarum , how warm it be ! ''
It be warm .
Jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun be smile his broad and pour his warm ray down on the Green Meadows .
The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind be take a nap .
You see , they have play so hard early in the morning that they be tire .
So there be nobody and nothing to cool Grandfather Frog , and he just grow warm and warm with every jump .
He begin to grow thirsty , and how he do long for a plunge in the dear , cool Smiling Pool !
But he be stubborn .
He would n't turn back , no matter how uncomfortable he felt .
He would see the Great World if it kill him .
So he keep right on , jump , jump , jump , jump .
Grandfather Frog have be up the Laughing Brook and down the Laughing Brook , where he could swim when he grow tire of travel on the bank , and where he could cool off whenever he become too warm , but never before have he be very far away from water , and he find this a very different matter .
At first he have make great jump , for that be what his long leg be give him for ; but the long grass bother him , and after a little the jump grow short and short and short , and with every jump he puff and puffed and presently begin to grunt .
You see he never before have make more than a few jump at a time without rest , and his leg grow tire in a very little while .
Now if Grandfather Frog have know as much about the Green Meadows a the little people who live there all the time do , he would have take the Lone Little Path , where the go be easy .
But he do n't .
He just start right out without know where he be go , and of course the way be hard , very hard indeed .
The grass be so tall that he could n't see over it , and the ground be so rough that it hurt his tender foot , which be use to the soft , mossy bank of the Smiling Pool .
He have go only a little way before he wish with all his might that he have never think of see the Great World .
But he have say that he be go to and he would , so he keep right on -- jump , jump , rest , jump , jump , jump , rest , jump , and then a long rest .
It be during one of these rest that he hear footstep , and then a dreadful sound that make cold chill run all over him .
Sniff , sniff , sniff !
It be come nearer .
Grandfather Frog flatten himself down as close to the ground a he could get .
But it be of no use , no use at all .
The sniffing come nearer and nearer , and then right over him stand Bowser the Hound !
Bowser look just as surprised a he felt .
He put out one paw and turn Grandfather Frog over on his back .
Grandfather Frog struggle to his foot and make two frightened jump .
`` Bow , wow ! ''
cry Bowser and roll him over again .
Bowser think it great fun , but Grandfather Frog think that his last day have come .
XII GRANDFATHER FROG KEEPS ON Grandfather Frog be old and wise , But even age be foolish .
I 'm sure you 'll all agree with me His stubbornness be mulish .
That his very last day have come Grandfather Frog be sure .
He do n't have the least doubt about it .
Here he be at the mercy of Bowser the Hound out on the Green Meadows far from the dear , safe Smiling Pool .
Every time he move , Bowser flip him over on his back and dance around him , bark with joy .
Every minute Grandfather Frog expect to feel Bowser 's terrible teeth , and he grow cold at the thought .
When he find that he could n't get away , he just lay still .
He be too tired and frighten to do much of anything else , anyway .
Now when he lay still , he spoil Bowser 's fun , for it be see him jump and kick his long leg that tickle Bowser so .
Bowser toss him up in the air two or three time , but Grandfather Frog simply lay where he fell without move .
`` Bow , wow , wow ! ''
cry Bowser , in his great deep voice .
Grandfather Frog do n't so much a blink his great goggly eye .
Bowser sniff him all over .
`` I guess I 've frighten him to death , '' say Bowser , talk to himself .
`` I do n't mean to do that .
I just want to have some fun with him . ''
With that , Bowser take one more sniff and then trot off to try to find something more exciting .
You see , he have n't have the least intention in the world of really hurt Grandfather Frog .
Grandfather Frog keep perfectly still until he be sure that Bowser be nowhere near .
Then he give a great sigh of relief and crawl under a big mullein leaf to rest , and think thing over .
`` Chugarum , that be a terrible experience ; it be , indeed ! ''
say he to himself , shiver at the very thought of what he have be through .
`` Nothing like that ever happen to me in the Smiling Pool .
I 've always say that the Smiling Pool be a good place in which to live than be the Great World , and now I know it .
The question be , what have I best do now ? ''
Now right down in his heart Grandfather Frog know the answer .
Of course the best thing to do be to go straight back to the Smiling Pool as fast a he could .
But Grandfather Frog be stubborn .
Yes , Sir , he certainly be stubborn .
And stubbornness be often just another name for foolishness .
He have tell Jerry Muskrat that he be go out to see the Great World .
Now if he go back , Jerry would laugh at him .
`` I wo n't ! ''
say Grandfather Frog .
`` What wo n't you do ? ''
ask a voice so close to him that Grandfather Frog make a long jump before he think .
You see , at the Smiling Pool he always jump at the least hint of danger , and because one jump always take him into the water , he be always safe .
But there be no water here , and that jump take him right out where anybody passing could see him .
Then he turn around to see who have startle him so .
It be Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` I wo n't go back to the Smiling Pool until I have see the Great World , '' reply Grandfather Frog gruffly .
-LSB- Illustration : `` You wo n't see much of the Great World if you jump like that every time you get a scare , '' say Danny .
Page 62 .
-RSB- `` You wo n't see much of the Great World if you jump like that every time you get a scare , '' say Danny , shake his head .
`` No , Sir , you wo n't see much of the Great World , because one of these time you 'll jump right into the claw of old Whitetail the Marsh Hawk , or his cousin Redtail , or Reddy Fox .
You take my advice , Grandfather Frog , and go straight back to the Smiling Pool .
You do n't know enough about the Great World to take care of yourself . ''
But Grandfather Frog be set in his way , and nothing that Danny Meadow Mouse could say change his mind in the least .
`` I start out to see the Great World , and I 'm go to keep right on , '' say he .
`` All right , '' say Danny at last .
`` If you will , I suppose you will .
I 'll go a little way with you just to get you start right . ''
`` Thank you , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` Let 's start right away . ''
XIII DANNY MEADOW MOUSE FEELS RESPONSIBLE Responsible be a great big word .
But it be just as big in it meaning a it be in it look , and that be the way word should be , I think , do n't you ?
Anyway , re-spon-sible be the way Danny Meadow Mouse felt when he find Grandfather Frog out on the Green Meadows so far from the Smiling Pool and so stubborn that he would keep on to see the Great World instead of go back to his big green lily-pad in the Smiling Pool , where he could take care of himself .
You remember Peter Rabbit felt re-spon-sible when he bring little Miss Fuzzy tail down from the Old Pasture to the dear Old Briar-patch .
He felt that it be his business to see to it that no harm come to her , and that be just the way Danny Meadow Mouse felt about Grandfather Frog .
You see , Danny know that if Grandfather Frog be go to jump like that every time he be frighten , he would n't get very far in the Great World .
It might be the right thing to do in the Smiling Pool , where the friendly water would hide him from his enemy , but it be just the wrong thing to do on the Green Meadows or in the Green Forest .
Danny have learn , when a very tiny fellow , that there the only safe thing to do when danger be near be to sit perfectly still and hardly breathe .
Now Danny Meadow Mouse be fond of Grandfather Frog , and he could n't bear to think that something dreadful might happen to him .
So when he find that he could n't get Grandfather Frog to go back to the Smiling Pool , he make up his mind that he just have to go along with Grandfather Frog to try to keep him out of danger .
Yes , Sir , he just have to do it .
He felt re-spon-sible for Grandfather Frog 's safety .
So here they be , Danny Meadow Mouse run ahead , anxious and worried and watch sharply for sign of danger , and Grandfather Frog puff along behind , bound to see the Great World which his cousin , old Mr. Toad , say be a good place to live in than the Smiling Pool .
Now Danny have a great many private little path under the grass all over the Green Meadows , and along these he can scamper ever so fast without once show himself to those who may be look for him .
Of course he start to take Grandfather Frog along one of these little path .
But Grandfather Frog do n't walk or run ; he jump .
There be n't room in Danny 's little path for jumping , a they soon find out .
Grandfather Frog simply could n't follow Danny along those little path .
Danny sit down to think , and pucker his brow anxiously .
He be more worried than ever .
It be very clear that Grandfather Frog would have to travel out in the open , where there be room for him to jump , and where also he would be right out in plain sight of all who happen along .
Once more Danny urge him to go back to the Smiling Pool , but he might just as well have talk to a stick or a stone .
Grandfather Frog have start out to see the Great World , and he be go to see it .
Danny sigh .
`` If you will , you will , I suppose , '' say he , `` and I guess the only place you can travel in any comfort be the Lone Little Path .
It be dangerous , very dangerous , but I guess you will have to do it . ''
`` Chugarum ! ''
reply Grandfather Frog , `` I 'm not afraid .
You show me the Lone Little Path and then go about your business , Danny Meadow Mouse . ''
So Danny lead the way to the Lone Little Path , and Grandfather Frog sigh with relief , for here he could jump without get all tangle up in long grass and without hurt his tender foot on sharp stubble where the grass have be cut .
But Danny felt more worried than ever .
He would n't leave Grandfather Frog because , you know , he felt re-spon-sible for him , and at the same time he be terribly afraid , for he felt sure that some of their enemy would see them .
He want to go back , but he keep right on , and that show just what a brave little fellow Danny Meadow Mouse be .
XIV GRANDFATHER FROG HAS A STRANGE RIDE A thousand thing may happen to , Ten thousand thing befall , The traveler who careless be , Or think he know it all .
Grandfather Frog , jump along behind Danny Meadow Mouse up the Lone Little Path , be begin to think that Danny be the most timid and easy frighten of all the little meadow people of his acquaintance .
Danny keep a much under the grass that overhang the Lone Little Path a he could .
When there be perfectly bare place , Danny look this way and look that way anxiously and then scamper across as fast a he could make his little legs go .
When he be safely across , he would wait for Grandfather Frog .
If a shadow pass over the grass , Danny would duck under the near leaf and hold his breath .
`` Foolish ! ''
mutter Grandfather Frog .
`` Foolish , foolish to be so afraid !
Now , I 'm not afraid until I see something to be afraid of .
Time enough then .
What 's the good of look for trouble all the time ?
Now , here I be out in the Great World , and I 'm not afraid .
And here 's Danny Meadow Mouse , who have live here all his life , act a if he expect something dreadful to happen any minute .
Pooh !
How very , very foolish ! ''
Now Grandfather Frog be old and in the Smiling Pool he be accounted very , very wise .
But the wise sometimes become foolish when they think that they know all there be to know .
It be so with Grandfather Frog .
It be he who be foolish and not Danny Meadow Mouse .
You see Danny know all the danger on the Green Meadows , and how many sharp eye be all the time watch for him .
He have long ago learn that the only way to feel safe be to feel afraid .
You see , then he be watch for danger every minute , and so he be n't likely to be surprise by his hungry enemy .
So while Grandfather Frog be look down on Danny for be so timid , Danny be really do the wise thing .
More than that , he be really very , very brave .
He be show Grandfather Frog the way up the Lone Little Path to see the Great World , when he himself would never , never have think of travel anywhere but along his own secret little path , just because Grandfather Frog could n't jump anywhere except where the way be fairly clear , a in the Lone Little Path , and Danny be afraid that unless Grandfather Frog have some one with him to watch out for him , he would surely come to a sad end .
The farther they go with nothing happening , the more foolish Danny 's timid way of run and hide seem to Grandfather Frog , and he be just about to tell Danny just what he think , when Danny dive into the long grass and warn Grandfather Frog to do the same .
But Grandfather Frog do n't .
`` Chugarum ! ''
say he , `` I do n't see anything to be afraid of , and I 'm not go to hide until I do . ''
So he sit still right where he be , in the middle of the Lone Little Path , look this way and that way , and see nothing to be afraid of .
And just then around a turn in the Lone Little Path come -- who do you think ?
Why Farmer Brown 's boy !
He saw Grandfather Frog and with a whoop of joy he spring for him .
Grandfather Frog give a frightened croak and jump , but he be too late .
Before he could jump again Farmer Brown 's boy have him by his long hind-legs .
`` Ha , ha ! ''
shout Farmer Brown 's boy , `` I believe this be the very old chap I have try so often to catch in the Smiling Pool .
These leg of yours will be mighty fine eating , Mr. Frog .
They will , indeed . ''
With that he tie Grandfather Frog 's leg together and go on his way across the Green Meadows with poor old Grandfather Frog dangle from the end of a string .
It be a strange ride and a most uncomfortable one , and with all his might Grandfather Frog wish he have never think of go out into the Great World .
XV GRANDFATHER FROG GIVES UP HOPE With his leg tie together , hang head down from the end of a string , Grandfather Frog be be carry he know not where by Farmer Brown 's boy .
It be dreadful .
Half-way across the Green Meadows the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind come dance along .
At first they do n't see Grandfather Frog , but presently one of them , rush up to tease Farmer Brown 's boy by blow off his hat , catch sight of Grandfather Frog .
Now the Merry Little Breezes be great friend of Grandfather Frog .
Many , many time they have blow foolish green fly over to him a he sit on his big green lily-pad , and they be very fond of him .
So when this one caught sight of him in such a dreadful position , he forget all about tease Farmer Brown 's boy .
He race away to tell the other Merry Little Breezes .
For a minute they be perfectly still .
They forget all about be merry .
`` It 's awful , just perfectly awful ! ''
cried one .
`` We must do something to help Grandfather Frog ! ''
cry another .
`` Of course we must , '' say a third .
`` But what can we do ? ''
ask a fourth .
Nobody reply .
They just think and think and think .
Finally the first one spoke .
`` We might try to comfort him a little , '' say he .
`` Of course we will do that ! ''
they shout all together .
`` And if we throw dust in the face of Farmer Brown 's boy and steal his hat , perhaps he will put Grandfather Frog down , '' continue the Merry Little Breeze .
`` The very thing ! ''
the others cry , dance about with excitement .
`` Then we can rush about and tell all Grandfather Frog 's friend what have happen to him and where he be .
Perhaps some of them can help u , '' the Little Breeze continue .
They waste no more time talk , but race after Farmer Brown 's boy as fast a they could go .
One of them , who be fast than the others , run ahead and whisper in Grandfather Frog 's ear that they be come to help him .
But poor old Grandfather Frog could n't be comfort .
He could n't see what there be that the Merry Little Breezes could do .
His leg smart where the string cut into the skin , and his head ache , for you know he be hang head down .
No , Sir , Grandfather Frog could n't be comfort .
He be in a terrible fix , and he could n't see any way out of it .
He have n't the least bit of hope left .
And all the time Farmer Brown 's boy be trudge along , whistle merrily .
You see , it do n't occur to him to think how Grandfather Frog must be suffer and how terribly frighten he must be .
He be n't cruel .
No , indeed , Farmer Brown 's boy be n't cruel .
That be , he do n't mean to be cruel .
He be just thoughtless , like a great many other boy , and girl too .
So he go whistle on his way until he reach the Long Lane lead from the Green Meadows up to Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
No sooner be he in the Long Lane than something happen .
A great cloud of dust and leaf and tiny stick be dash in his face and nearly choke him .
Dirt get in his eye .
His hat be snatch from his head and go sail over into the garden .
He drop Grandfather Frog and felt for his handkerchief to wipe the dirt from his eye .
`` Phew ! ''
exclaim Farmer Brown 's boy , a he start after his hat .
`` It 's funny where that wind come from so suddenly ! ''
But you know and I know that it be the Merry Little Breezes work together who make up that sudden wind .
And Grandfather Frog ought to have know it too , but he do n't .
You see the dust have get in his nose and eye just a it have in those of Farmer Brown 's boy , and he be so frightened and confuse that he could n't think .
So he lay just where Farmer Brown 's boy drop him , and he do n't have any more hope than before .
XVI THE MERRY LITTLE BREEZES WORK HARD The Merry Little Breezes almost shout aloud with delight when they saw Farmer Brown 's boy drop Grandfather Frog to feel for his handkerchief and wipe out the dust which they have throw in his eye .
Then he have to climb the fence and chase his hat through the garden .
They would let him almost get his hand on it and then , just a he think that he surely have it , they would snatch it away .
It be great fun for the Merry Little Breezes .
But they be not do it for fun .
No , indeed , they be not do it for fun !
They be do it to lead Farmer Brown 's boy away from Grandfather Frog .
Just as soon a they dare , they drop the hat and then separate and rush away in all direction across the Green Meadows , over to the Green Forest , and down to the Smiling Pool .
What be they go for ?
Why , to hunt for some of Grandfather Frog 's friend and ask their help .
You see , the Merry Little Breezes could make Farmer Brown 's boy drop Grandfather Frog , but they could n't untie a knot or cut a string , and this be just what have get to be do to set Grandfather Frog free , for his hind-legs be tie together .
So now they be look for some one with sharp teeth , who think enough of Grandfather Frog to come and help him .
One thought of Striped Chipmunk and start for the old stone wall to look for him .
Another go in search of Danny Meadow Mouse .
A third head for the dear Old Briar-patch after Peter Rabbit .
A fourth remembered Jimmy Skunk and how he have once set Blacky the Crow free from a snare .
A fifth remember what sharp teeth Happy Jack Squirrel have and hurry over to the Green Forest to look for him .
A sixth started straight for the Smiling Pool to tell Jerry Muskrat .
And every one of them race as fast a he could .
All this time Grandfather Frog be without hope .
Yes , Sir , poor old Grandfather Frog be wholly in despair .
You see , he do n't know what the Merry Little Breezes be try to do , and he be so frightened and confuse that he could n't think .
When Farmer Brown 's boy drop him , he lay right where he fell for a few minute .
Then , right close at hand , he saw an old board .
Without really think , he try to get to it , for there look a if there might be room for him to hide under it .
It be hard work , for you know his long hind-legs , which he use for jumping , be tie together .
The best he could do be to crawl and wriggle and pull himself along .
Just a Farmer Brown 's boy start to climb the fence back into the Long Lane , his hat in his hand , Grandfather Frog reach the old board and crawl under it .
Now when the Merry Little Breezes have throw the dust in Farmer Brown 's boy 's face and snatch his hat , he have drop Grandfather Frog in such a hurry that he do n't notice just where he do drop him , so now he do n't know the exact place to look for him .
But he know pretty near , and he have n't the least doubt but that he would find him .
He have just start to look when the dinner horn sound .
Farmer Brown 's boy hesitate .
He be hungry .
If he be late , he might lose his dinner .
He could come back later to look for Grandfather Frog , for with his leg tie Grandfather Frog could n't get far .
So , with a last look to make sure of the place , Farmer Brown 's boy start for the house .
If the Merry Little Breezes have know this , they would have felt ever so much good .
But they do n't .
So they hurry as fast a ever they could to find Grandfather Frog 's friend and work until they be almost too tired to move , for it seem a if every single one of Grandfather Frog 's friend have take that particular day to go away from home .
So while Farmer Brown 's boy eat his dinner , and Grandfather Frog lay hide under the old board in the Long Lane , the Merry Little Breezes do their best to find help for him .
XVII STRIPED CHIPMUNK CUTS THE STRING `` Hippy hop !
Flippy flop !
All on a summer day My mother turn me from the house and send me out to play ! ''
Striped Chipmunk know perfectly well that that be just nonsense , but Striped Chipmunk learn a long time ago that when you be just bubble right over with good feeling , there be fun in say and do foolish thing , and that be just how he be feel .
So he run along the old rail fence on one side of the Long Lane , say foolish thing and cut up foolish caper just because he felt so good , and all the time see all that those bright little eye of his could take in .
Now Striped Chipmunk and the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind be great friend , very great friend , indeed .
Almost every morning they have a grand frolic together .
But this morning the Merry Little Breezes have n't come over to the old stone wall where Striped Chipmunk make his home .
Anyway , they have n't come at the usual time .
Striped Chipmunk have wait a little while and then , because he be feel so good , he have decide to take a run down the Long Lane to see if anything new have happen there .
That be how it happen that when one of the Merry Little Breezes do go to look for him , and be terribly anxious to ask him to come to the help of Grandfather Frog , he be nowhere to be find .
But Striped Chipmunk do n't know anything about that .
He scamper along the top rail of the old fence , jump up on top of a post , and sit up to wash his face and hand , for Striped Chipmunk be very neat and can not bear to be the least bit dirty .
He look up and wink at Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , sail round and round way , way up in the blue , blue sky .
He chase his own tail round and round until he nearly fell off of the post .
He make a wry face in the direction of Redtail the Hawk , whom he could see sit in the top of a tall tree way over on the Green Meadows .
He scold Bowser the Hound , who happen to come trot up the Long Lane , and do n't stop scold until Bowser be out of sight .
Then he kick up his heel and whisk along the old fence again .
Half-way across a shaky old rail , he suddenly stop .
His bright eye have see something that fill him with curiosity , quite a much curiosity a Peter Rabbit would have have .
It be a piece of string .
Yes , Sir , it be a piece of string .
Now Striped Chipmunk often have find piece of string , so there be nothing particularly interesting in the string itself .
What do interest him and make him very curious be the fact that this piece of string kept moving .
Every few second it give a little jerk .
Whoever heard of a piece of string move all by itself ?
Certainly Striped Chipmunk never have .
He could n't understand it .
For a few minute he watch it from the top rail of the old fence .
Then he scurry down to the ground and , a few step at a time , stop to watch sharply between each little run , he draw nearer and near to that queer act string .
It give him a funny feel inside to see a string acting like that , so he be very careful not to get too near .
He look at it from one side , then run around and look at it from the other side .
At last he get where he could see that one end of the string be under an old board , and then he begin to understand .
Of course there be somebody hide under that old board and jerk the string .
-LSB- Illustration : He seize the other end of the string and begin to pull .
Page 88 .
-RSB- Striped Chipmunk sit down and scratch his head thoughtfully .
Whoever be pull that string could n't be very big , or they would never have be able to crawl under that old board , therefore he need n't be afraid .
A gleam of mischief twinkle in Striped Chipmunk 's eye .
He seize the other end of the string and begin to pull .
Such a jerking and yanking a begin right away !
But he hold on and pull harder .
Then out from under the old board appear the queer web foot of Grandfather Frog tie together .
Striped Chipmunk be so surprised that he let go of the string and nearly fell over backward .
`` Why , Grandfather Frog , what under the sun be you do here ? ''
he shout .
When Striped Chipmunk let go of the string , Grandfather Frog promptly draw his foot back under the old board , but when he hear Striped Chipmunk 's voice , he slowly and painfully crawl out .
He tell how he have be catch and tie by Farmer Brown 's boy and finally drop near the old board .
He tell how terribly frighten he be , and how sore his leg be .
Striped Chipmunk do n't wait for him to finish .
In a flash he be at work with his sharp teeth and have cut the cruel string before Grandfather Frog have finish his story .
XVIII GRANDFATHER FROG HURRIES AWAY When Striped Chipmunk cut the string that bind the long leg of Grandfather Frog together , Grandfather Frog be so relieved that he hardly know what to do .
Of course he thank Striped Chipmunk over and over again .
Striped Chipmunk say that it be nothing , just nothing at all , and that he be very glad indeed to help Grandfather Frog .
`` We folk who live out in the Great World have to help one another , '' say Striped Chipmunk , `` because we never know when we may need help ourselves .
Now you take my advice , Grandfather Frog , and go back to the Smiling Pool as fast a you can .
The Great World be no place for an old fellow like you , because you do n't know how to take care of yourself . ''
Now when he say that , Striped Chipmunk make a great mistake .
Old people never like to be tell that they be old or that they do not know all there be to know .
Grandfather Frog straighten up and try to look very dignified .
`` Chugarum ! ''
say he , `` I 'd have you to know , Striped Chipmunk , that people be come to me for advice before you be bear .
It be just an accident that Farmer Brown 's boy catch me , and I 'd like to see him do it again .
Yes , Sir , I 'd like to see him do it again ! ''
Dear me , dear me !
Grandfather Frog be boast .
If he have be safe at home in the Smiling Pool , there might have be some excuse for boasting , but way over here in the Long Lane , not even know the way back to the Smiling Pool , it be foolish , very foolish indeed .
No one know that good than Striped Chipmunk , but he have a great deal of respect for Grandfather Frog , and he know too that Grandfather Frog be feel very much out of sort and very much mortify to think that he have be catch in such a scrape , so he put a hand over his mouth to hide a smile a he say : `` Of course he be n't go to catch you again .
I know how wise and smart you be , but you look to me very tire , and there be so many danger out here in the Great World that it seem to me that the very best thing you can do be to go back to the Smiling Pool . ''
But Grandfather Frog be stubborn , you know .
He have start out to see the Great World , and he do n't want the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest to think that he be afraid .
The truth be , Grandfather Frog be more afraid of be laugh at than he be of the danger around him , which show just how foolish wise people can be sometimes .
So he shake his head .
`` Chugarum ! ''
say he , `` I be go to see the Great World first , and then I be go back to the Smiling Pool .
Do you happen to know where there be any water ?
I be very thirsty . ''
Now over on the other side of the Long Lane be a spring where Farmer Brown 's boy fill his jug with clear cold water to take with him to the cornfield when he have to work there .
Striped Chipmunk know all about that spring , for he have be there for a drink many time .
So he tell Grandfather Frog just where the spring be and how to get to it .
He even offer to show the way , but Grandfather Frog say that he would rather go alone .
`` Watch out , Grandfather Frog , and do n't fall in , because you might not be able to get out again , '' warn Striped Chipmunk .
Grandfather Frog look up sharply to see if Striped Chipmunk be make fun of him .
The very idea of any one thinking that he , who have live in the water all his life , could n't get out when he please !
But Striped Chipmunk look really in earnest , so Grandfather Frog swallow the quick retort on the tip of his tongue , thank Striped Chipmunk , and hurry away to look for the spring , for he be very , very thirsty .
Besides , he be very , very hot , and he hurry still faster a he think of the cool bath he would have when he find that spring .
XIX GRANDFATHER FROG JUMPS INTO MORE TROUBLE Some people be heedless and run into trouble .
Some people be stupid and walk into trouble .
Grandfather Frog be both heedless and stupid and jump into trouble .
When Striped Chipmunk tell him where the spring be , it seem to him that he could n't wait to reach it .
You see , Grandfather Frog have spend all his life in the Smiling Pool , where he could get a drink whenever he want it by just reach over the edge of his big green lily-pad .
Whenever he be too warm , all he have to do be to say `` Chugarum ! ''
and dive head first into the cool water .
So he be n't use to go a long time without water .
Jump , jump , jump !
Grandfather Frog be go as fast a ever he could in the direction Striped Chipmunk have point out .
Every three or four jump he would stop for just a wee , wee bit of rest , then off he would go again , jump , jump , jump !
And each jump be a long one .
Peter Rabbit certainly would have be envious if he could have see those long jump of Grandfather Frog .
At last the ground begin to grow damp .
The farther he go , the damper it grow .
Presently it become fairly wet , and there be a great deal of soft , cool , wet moss .
How good it do feel to Grandfather Frog 's poor tired foot !
`` Must be I 'm most there , '' say Grandfather Frog to himself , a he scramble up on a big mossy hummock , so a to look around .
Right away he saw a little path from the direction of the Long Lane .
It lead straight past the very hummock on which Grandfather Frog be sit , and he notice that where the ground be very soft and wet , old board have be lay down .
That puzzle Grandfather Frog a great deal .
`` It 's a sure enough path , '' say he .
`` But what under the blue , blue sky do any one want to spoil it for by put those board there ? ''
You see , Grandfather Frog like the soft wet mud , and he could n't understand how any one , even Farmer Brown 's boy , could prefer a hard dry path .
Of course he never have wear shoe himself , so he could n't understand why any one should want dry foot when they could just as well have wet one .
He be still puzzle over it when he hear a sound that make him nearly lose his balance and tumble off the hummock .
It be a whistle , the whistle of Farmer Brown 's boy !
Grandfather Frog know it right away , because he often have hear it over by the Smiling Pool .
The whistle come from over in the Long Lane .
Farmer Brown 's boy have have his dinner and be on his way back to look for Grandfather Frog where he have be drop .
Grandfather Frog actually grin a he think how surprised Farmer Brown 's boy be go to be when he could find no trace of him .
Suddenly the smile seem to freeze on Grandfather Frog 's face .
That whistle be come nearer !
Farmer Brown 's boy have leave the Long Lane and be come along the little path .
The truth be , he be come for a drink at the spring , but Grandfather Frog do n't think of this .
He be sure that in some way Farmer Brown 's boy have find out which way he have go and be come after him .
He crouch down as flat a he could on the big hummock and hold his breath .
Farmer Brown 's boy go straight past .
Just a few step beyond , he stop and kneel down .
Peeping through the grass , Grandfather Frog saw him dip up beautiful clear water in an old cup and drink .
Then Grandfather Frog know just where the spring be .
A few minute later , Farmer Brown 's boy pass again , still whistle , on his way to the Long Lane .
Grandfather Frog wait only long enough to be sure that he have really go .
Then , with big jump than ever , he start for the spring .
A dozen long jumps , and he could see the water .
Two more jump and then a long jump , and he have land in the spring with a splash !
`` Chugarum ! ''
cry Grandfather Frog .
`` How good the water feel ! ''
And all the time , Grandfather Frog have jump straight into more trouble .
XX GRANDFATHER FROG LOSES HEART Look before you leap ; The water may be deep .
That be the very best kind of advice , but most people find that out when it be too late .
Grandfather Frog do .
Of course he have hear that little verse all his life .
Indeed , he have be very fond of say it to those who come to the Smiling Pool to ask his advice .
But Grandfather Frog seem to have leave all his wisdom behind him when he leave the Smiling Pool to go out into the Great World .
You see , it be very hard work for any one whose advice have be seek to turn right around and take advice themselves .
So Grandfather Frog have be get into scrape ever since he start out on his foolish journey , and now here he be in still another , and he have land in it head first , with a great splash .
Of course , when he have see the cool , sparkling water of the spring , it have seem to him that he just could n't wait another second to get into it .
He be so hot and dry and dreadfully thirsty and uncomfortable !
And so -- oh , dear me !
-- Grandfather Frog do n't look at all before he leap .
No , Sir , he do n't !
He just dive in with a great long jump .
Oh , how good that water felt !
For a few minute he could n't think of anything else .
It be cool than the water of the Smiling Pool , because , a you know , it be a spring .
But it felt all the good for that , and Grandfather Frog just close his eye and float there in pure happiness .
Presently he open his eye to look around .
Then he blink them rapidly for a minute or so .
He rub them to make sure that he saw aright .
His heart seem to sink way , way down towards his toe .
`` Chugarum ! ''
exclaim Grandfather Frog , `` Chugarum ! ''
And after that for a long time he do n't say a word .
You see , it be this way .
All around him rise perfectly straight smooth wall .
He could look up and see a little of the blue , blue sky right overhead and whisper leaf of tree and bush .
Over the edge of the smooth straight wall grass be bend .
But they be so far above his head , so dreadfully far !
There be n't any place to climb out !
Grandfather Frog be in a prison !
He do n't understand it at all , but it be so .
Of course , Farmer Brown 's boy could have tell him all about it .
A long time before Farmer Brown himself have find that spring , and because the water be so clear and cold and pure , he have clear away all the dirt and rubbish around it .
Then he have knock the bottom out of a nice clean barrel and have dig down where the water bubble up out of the sand and have set the barrel down in this hole and have fill in the bottom with clean white sand for the water to bubble up through .
About half-way up the barrel he have cut a little hole for the water to run out as fast a it bubble in at the bottom .
Of course the water never could fill the barrel , because when it reach that hole , it run out .
This leave a straight , smooth wall up above , a wall altogether too high for Grandfather Frog to jump over from the inside .
Poor old Grandfather Frog !
He wish more than ever that he never , never have think of leave the Smiling Pool to see the Great World .
Round and round he swim , but he could n't see any way out of it .
The little hole where the water run out be too small for him to squeeze through , a he find out by try and try .
So far a he could see , he have just get to stay there all the rest of his life .
Worse still , he know that Farmer Brown 's boy sometimes come to the spring for a drink , for he have see him do it .
That mean that the very next time he come , he would find Grandfather Frog , because there be no place to hide .
When Grandfather Frog thought of that , he just lose heart .
Yes , Sir , he just lose heart .
He give up all hope of ever see the Smiling Pool again , and two big tear run out of his big goggly eye .
XXI THE MERRY LITTLE BREEZES TRY TO COMFORT GRANDFATHER FROG When the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind have leave Grandfather Frog in the Long Lane where Farmer Brown 's boy have drop him , and have hurry as fast a ever they could to try to find some of his friend to help him , not one of them have be successful .
No one be at home , and no one be in any of the place where they usually be to be find .
The Merry Little Breezes look and look .
Then , one by one , they sadly turn back to the Long Lane .
They felt so badly that they just hat to go back where they have leave Grandfather Frog .
When they get there , they find Striped Chipmunk , who now be scold Farmer Brown 's boy as fast a his tongue could go .
`` Where be he ? ''
cry the Merry Little Breezes excitedly .
Striped Chipmunk stop scold long enough to point to Farmer Brown 's boy , who be hunt in the grass for some trace of Grandfather Frog .
`` We do n't mean him , you stupid !
We can see him for ourselves .
Where 's Grandfather Frog ? ''
cry the Merry Little Breezes , all speaking at once .
`` I do n't know , '' reply Striped Chipmunk , `` and what 's more , I do n't care ! ''
Now this be n't true , for Striped Chipmunk be n't that kind .
It be mostly talk , and the Merry Little Breezes know it .
They know that Striped Chipmunk really think a great deal of Grandfather Frog , just a they do .
So they pretend not to notice what he say or how put out he seem .
After a while , he tell them that he have set Grandfather Frog free and that then he have start for the spring on the other side of the Long Lane .
The Merry Little Breezes be delight to hear the good news , and they say such a lot of nice thing to Striped Chipmunk that he quite forget to scold Farmer Brown 's boy .
Then they start for the spring , dance merrily , for they felt sure that there Grandfather Frog be all right , and they expect to find him quite at home .
`` Hello , Grandfather Frog ! ''
they shout , a they peep into the spring .
`` How do you like your new home ? ''
Grandfather Frog make no reply .
He just roll his great goggly eye up at them , and they be full of tear .
`` Why -- why -- why , Grandfather Frog , what be the matter now ? ''
they cry .
`` Chugarum , '' say Grandfather Frog , and his voice sound all choky , `` I ca n't get out . ''
Then they notice for the first time how straight and smooth the wall of the spring be and how far down Grandfather Frog be , and they know that he speak the truth .
They try bend down the grass that grow around the edge of the spring , but none be long enough to reach the water .
If they have stop to think , they would have know that Grandfather Frog could n't have climb up by them , anyway .
Then they try to lift a big stick into the spring , but it be too heavy for them , and they could n't move it .
However , they do manage to blow an old shingle in , and this give Grandfather Frog something to sit on , so that he begin to feel a little good .
Then they say all the comfort thing they could think of .
They tell him that no harm could come to him there , unless Farmer Brown 's boy should happen to see him .
-LSB- Illustration : `` That 's just what I 'm afraid of ! ''
croak Grandfather Frog .
Page 109 . -RSB-
`` That 's just what I be afraid of ! ''
croak Grandfather Frog .
`` He be sure to see me if he come for a drink , for there be no place for me to hide . ''
`` Perhaps he wo n't come , '' say one of the Little Breezes hopefully .
`` If he do come , you can hide under the piece of shingle , and then he wo n't know you be here at all , '' say another .
Grandfather Frog brighten up .
`` That 's so ! ''
say he .
`` That 's a good idea , and I 'll try it . ''
Then one of the Merry Little Breezes promise to keep watch for Farmer Brown 's boy , and all the others start off on another hunt for some one to help Grandfather Frog out of this new trouble .
XXII GRANDFATHER FROG 'S TROUBLES GROW Head first in ; no way out ; It 's best to know what you 're about !
Grandfather Frog have have plenty of time to realize how very true this be .
As he sit on the old shingle which the Merry Little Breezes have blow into the spring where he be a prisoner , he think a great deal about that little word `` if . ''
If he have n't leave the Smiling Pool , if he have n't be stubborn and set in his way , if he have n't be in such a hurry , if he have look to see where he be leap -- well , any one of these ifs would have keep him out of his present trouble .
It really be n't so bad in the spring .
That be , it would n't have be so bad but for the fear that Farmer Brown 's boy might come for a drink and find him there .
That be Grandfather Frog 's one great fear , and it give him bad dream whenever he try to take a nap .
He grow cold all over at the very thought of be catch again by Farmer Brown 's boy , and when at last one of the Merry Little Breezes hurry up to tell him that Farmer Brown 's boy actually be come , poor old Grandfather Frog be so frightened that the Merry Little Breeze have to tell him twice to hide under the old shingle a it float on the water .
At last he get it through his head , and draw a very long breath , he dive into the water and swam under the old shingle .
He be just in time .
Yes , Sir , he be just in time .
If Farmer Brown 's boy have n't be think of something else , he certainly would have notice the little ring on the water make by Grandfather Frog when he dive in .
But he be think of something else , and it be n't until he dip a cup in for the second time that he even saw the old shingle .
`` Hello ! ''
he exclaim .
`` That must have blow in since I be here yesterday .
We ca n't have anything like that in our nice spring . ''
With that he reach out for the old shingle , and Grandfather Frog , hide under it , give himself up for lose .
But the anxious Little Breeze have be watch sharply and the instant he saw what Farmer Brown 's boy be go to do , he play the old , old trick of snatch his hat from his head .
The truth be , he could n't think of anything else to do .
Farmer Brown 's boy grab at his hat , and then , because he be in a hurry and have other thing to do , he start off without once thinking of the old shingle again .
`` Chugarum ! ''
cry Grandfather Frog , a he swim out from under the shingle and climb up on it , `` That certainly be a close call .
If I have many more like it , I certainly shall die of fright . ''
Nothing more happen for a long time , and Grandfather Frog be wonder if it would n't be safe to take a nap when he saw peep over the edge above him two eye .
They be greenish yellow eye , and they star and star .
Grandfather Frog star and star back .
He just could n't help it .
He do n't know who they belong to .
He could n't remember ever have see them before .
He be afraid , and yet somehow he could n't make up his mind to jump .
He star so hard at the eye that he do n't notice a long furry paw slowly , very slowly , reach down towards him .
Nearer it creep and nearer .
Then suddenly it move like a flash .
Grandfather Frog felt sharp claw in his white and yellow waistcoat , and before he could even open his mouth to cry `` Chugarum , '' he be send fly through the air and land on his back in the grass .
Pounce !
Two paw pin him down , and the greenish yellow eye be not an inch from his own .
They belong to Black Pussy , Farmer Brown 's cat .
XXIII THE DEAR OLD SMILING POOL ONCE MORE Black Pussy be have a good time .
Grandfather Frog be n't .
It be great fun for Black Pussy to slip a paw under Grandfather Frog and toss him up in the air .
It be still more fun to pretend to go away , but to hide instead , and the instant Grandfather Frog start off , to pounce upon him and cuff him and roll him about .
But there be n't any fun in it for Grandfather Frog .
In the first place , he do n't know whether or not Black Pussy like Frogs to eat , and he be terribly frighten .
In the second place , Black Pussy do n't always cover up her claw , and they prick right through Grandfather Frog 's white and yellow waistcoat and hurt , for he be very tender there .
At last Black Pussy grow tire of playing , so catch up Grandfather Frog in her mouth , she start along the little path from the spring to the Long Lane .
Grandfather Frog do n't even kick , which be just as well , because if he have , Black Pussy would have hold him tight , and that would have be very uncomfortable indeed .
`` It 's all over , and this be the end , '' moan Grandfather Frog .
`` I 'm go to be eat now .
Oh , why , why do I ever leave the Smiling Pool ? ''
Just a Black Pussy slip into the Long Lane , Grandfather Frog hear a familiar sound .
It be a whistle , a merry whistle .
It be the whistle of Farmer Brown 's boy .
It be come nearer and nearer .
A little bit of hope begin to stir in the heart of Grandfather Frog .
He do n't know just why , but it do .
Always he have be in the great fear of Farmer Brown 's boy , but now -- well , if Farmer Brown 's boy should take him , he might get away from him a he do before , but he be very sure that he never , never could get away from Black Pussy .
The whistle draw nearer .
Black Pussy stop .
Then she begin to make a queer whir sound deep down in her throat .
`` Hello , Black Pussy !
Have you be hunt ?
Come here and show me what you 've get , '' cry a voice .
Black Pussy arch up her back and begin to rub against the leg of Farmer Brown 's boy , and all the time the whir , ring sound in her throat grow loud and louder .
Farmer Brown 's boy stoop down to see what she have in her mouth .
`` Why , '' he exclaim , `` I do believe this be the very same old frog that get away from me !
You do n't want him , Puss .
I 'll just put him in my pocket and take him up to the house by and by . ''
With that he take Grandfather Frog from Black Pussy and drop him in his pocket .
He pat Black Pussy , call her a smart cat , and then start on his way , whistle merrily .
It be dark and rather close in that pocket , but Grandfather Frog do n't mind this .
It be a lot good than feel sharp teeth and claw all the time .
He wonder how soon they would reach the house and what would happen to him then .
After what seem like a long , long time , he felt himself swung through the air , and then he land on the ground with a thump that make him grunt .
Farmer Brown 's boy have take off his coat and throw it down .
The whistling stop .
Everything be quiet .
Grandfather Frog wait and listen , but not a sound could he hear .
Then he saw a little ray of light creep into his prison .
He squirm and push , and all of a sudden he be out of the pocket .
The bright light make him blink .
As soon a he could see , he look to see where he be .
Then he rub his eye with both hand and look again .
He be n't at Farmer Brown 's house at all .
Where do you think he be ?
Why , right on the bank of the Smiling Pool , and a little way off be Farmer Brown 's boy fishing !
`` Chugarum ! ''
cry Grandfather Frog , and it be the loud , glad chugarum that the Smiling Pool ever have hear .
`` Chugarum ! ''
he cry again , and with a great leap he dive with a splash into the dear old Smiling Pool , which smile more than ever .
And never again have Grandfather Frog try to see the Great World .
He be quite content to leave it to those who like to dwell there .
And since his own wonderful adventure , he have be ready to believe anything he be tell about what happen there .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Jerry_Muskrat.txt.out
CHAPTER I : Jerry Muskrat Has A Fright What be it Mother Muskrat have say about Farmer Brown 's boy and his trap ?
Jerry Muskrat sit on the edge of the Big Rock and kick his heel while he try to remember .
The fact be , Jerry have not half heed .
He have be think of other thing .
Besides , it seem to him that Mother Muskrat be altogether foolish about a great many thing .
`` Pooh ! ''
say Jerry , throw out his chest , `` I guess I can take care of myself without be tie to my mother 's apron string !
What if Farmer Brown 's boy be set trap around the Smiling Pool ?
I guess he ca n't fool your Uncle Jerry .
He be n't so smart a he think he be ; I can fool him any day . ''
Jerry chuckle .
He be think of how he have once fool Farmer Brown 's boy into think a big trout be on his hook .
Slowly Jerry slide into the Smiling Pool and swam over towards his favorite log .
Peter Rabbit stick his head over the edge of the bank .
`` Hi , Jerry , '' he shout , `` last night I saw Farmer Brown 's boy come over this way with a lot of trap .
Better watch out ! ''
`` Go chase yourself , Peter Rabbit .
I guess I can look out for myself , '' reply Jerry , just a little crossly .
Peter make a wry face and start for the sweet clover patch .
Hardly be he out of sight when Billy Mink and Bobby Coon come down the Laughing Brook together .
They seem very much excite .
When they saw Jerry Muskrat , they beckon for him to come over where they be , and when he get there , they both talk at once , and it be all about Farmer Brown 's boy and his trap .
`` You 'd better watch out , Jerry , '' warn Billy Mink , who be a great traveler and have have wide experience .
`` Oh , I guess I 'm able to take care of myself , '' say Jerry airily , and once more started for his favorite log .
And what do you suppose he be think about a he swim along ?
He be wish that he know what a trap look like , for despite his boasting he do n't even know what he be to look out for .
As he draw near his favorite log , something tickle his nose .
He stop swim to sniff and sniff .
My , how good it do smell !
And it seem to come right straight from the old log .
Jerry begin to swim as fast a he could .
In a few minute he scramble out on the old log .
Then Jerry rub his eye three time to be sure that he saw aright .
There be luscious piece of carrot lie right in front of him .
Now there be nothing that Jerry Muskrat like good than carrot .
So he do n't stop to wonder how it get there .
He just reach out for the near piece and eat it .
Then he reach for the next piece and eat it .
Then he do a funny little dance just for joy .
When he be quite out of breath , he sit down to rest .
Snap !
Something have Jerry Muskrat by the tail !
Jerry squeal with fright and pain .
Oh , how it do hurt !
He twist and turn , but he be hold fast and could not see what have him .
Then he pull and pull , until it seem a if his tail would pull off .
But it do n't .
So he keep pull , and pretty soon the thing let go so suddenly that Jerry tumble head first into the water .
When he reach home , Mother Muskrat do his sore tail up for him .
`` What do I tell you about trap ? ''
she ask severely .
Jerry stop cry .
`` Was that a trap ? ''
he ask .
Then he remember that in his fright he do n't even see it .
`` Oh , dear , '' he moan , `` I would n't know one to-day if I meet it . ''
CHAPTER II : The Convention At The Big Rock Jolly round , red Mr. Sun look down on the Smiling Pool .
He almost forget to keep on climb up in the blue sky , he be so interested in what he saw there .
What do you think it be ?
Why , it be a convention at the Big Rock , the queer convention he ever have see .
Your papa would say that it be a mass-meeting of angry citizen .
Maybe it be , but that be a pretty long term .
Anyway , Mother Muskrat say it be a convention , and she ought to know , for she be the one who have call it .
Of course Jerry Muskrat be there , and his uncle and aunt and all his cousin .
Billy Mink be there , and all his relation , even old Grandfather Mink , who have lose most of his teeth and be a little hard of hearing .
Little Joe Otter be there , with his father and mother and all his relation even to his third cousin .
Bobby Coon be there , and he have bring with him every Coon of his acquaintance who ever fish in the Smiling Pool or along the Laughing Brook .
And everybody be look very solemn , very solemn indeed .
When the last one have arrive , Mother Muskrat climb up on the Big Rock and call Jerry Muskrat up beside her , where all could see him .
Then she make a speech .
`` Friends of the Smiling Pool and Laughing Brook , '' begin Mrs. Muskrat , `` I have call you together to show you what have happen to my son Jerry and to ask your advice . ''
She stop and point to Jerry 's sore tail .
`` What do you think do that ? ''
she demand .
`` Probably Jerry 's be in a fight and get whip , '' say Bobby Coon to his neighbor , for Bobby Coon be a graceless young scamp and do not always show proper respect to his neighbor .
Mrs. Muskrat glare at him , for she have overheard the remark .
Then she hold up one hand to command silence .
`` Friends , it be a trap -- a trap set by Farmer Brown 's boy !
a trap to catch you and me and our child ! ''
say she solemnly .
`` It be no longer safe for our little folk to play around the Smiling Pool or along the Laughing Brook .
What be we go to do about it ? ''
Everybody look at everybody else in dismay .
Then everybody begin to talk at once , and if Farmer Brown 's boy could have hear all the thing say about him , his cheek certainly would have burn .
Indeed , I be afraid that they would have blister .
Such excitement !
Everybody have a different idea , and nobody would listen to anybody else .
Old Mr. Mink lose his temper and call Grandpa Otter a meddlesome know-nothing .
It look very much a if the convention be go to break up in a sad quarrel .
Then Mr. Coon climb up on the Big Rock and with a stick pound for silence .
`` I move , '' say he , `` that in as much a we can not agree , we tell Great-Grandfather Frog all about the danger and ask his advice , for he be very old and very wise and remembers when the world be young .
All in favor please raise their right hand . ''
At once the air be full of hand , and everybody be good-natured once more .
So it be agree to call in Great-Grandfather Frog .
CHAPTER III : The Oracle Of The Smiling Pool Grandfather Frog sit on his big green lily-pad with his eye half close , for all the world a if he know nothing about the meeting at the Big Rock .
Of course he do know , for there be n't much go on around the Smiling Pool which he do n't see or at least hear all about .
The Merry Little Breezes , who be here , there , and everywhere , tell him all that be go on , so that when he saw Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter swim towards him , he know what they be come for .
But he pretend to be very much surprise when Jerry Muskrat very politely say : `` Good morning , Grandfather Frog . ''
`` Good morning , Jerry Muskrat .
You 're out early this morning , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` If you please , you be want over at the Big Rock , '' say Jerry .
Grandfather Frog 's eye twinkle , but he make his voice very deep and gruff a he reply : `` Chugarum !
You 're a scamp , Jerry Muskrat , and Little Joe Otter be another .
What trick be you try to play on me now ? ''
Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter look a wee bit sheepish , for it be true that they be forever try to play trick on Grandfather Frog .
`` Really and truly , Grandfather Frog , there be n't any trick this time , '' say Jerry .
`` There be a meeting at the Big Rock to try to decide what to do to keep Farmer Brown 's boy from set trap around the Smiling Pool and along the Laughing Brook , and everybody want your advice , because you be so old and so wise .
Please come . ''
Grandfather Frog smooth down his white and yellow waistcoat and pretend to think the matter over very seriously , while Jerry and Little Joe fidget impatiently .
Finally he speak .
`` I be very old , a you have say , Jerry Muskrat , and it be a long way over to the Big Rock . ''
`` Get right on my back and I 'll take you over there , '' say Jerry eagerly .
`` I 'm afraid that you 'll spill me off , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` No , I wo n't ; just try me and see , '' beg Jerry .
So Grandfather Frog climb on Jerry Muskrat 's back , and Jerry start for the Big Rock a fast a he could go .
When all the Minks and the Otters and the Coons and the Muskrats saw them come , they give a great shout , for Grandfather Frog be sometimes call the oracle of the Smiling Pool .
You know an oracle be one who be very wise .
Bobby Coon help Grandfather Frog up on the Big Rock , and when he have make himself comfortable , Mrs. Muskrat tell him all about Farmer Brown 's boy and his trap , and how Jerry have be catch in one by the tail , and she end by ask for his advice , because they all know that he be so wise .
When she say this , Grandfather Frog puff himself up until it seem a if his white and yellow waistcoat would surely burst .
He sit very still for a while and gaze straight at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun without blink once .
Then he speak in a very deep voice .
`` To-morrow morning at sunrise I will tell you what to do , '' say he .
And not another word could they get out of him .
CHAPTER IV : Grandfather Frog 's Plan Just a Old Mother West Wind and her Merry Little Breezes come down from the Purple Hills , and jolly , round , red Mr. Sun throw his nightcap off and begin his daily climb up in the blue sky , Great-Grandfather Frog climb up on the Big Rock in the Smiling Pool .
Early a he be , all the little people who live along the Laughing Brook and around the Smiling Pool be wait for him .
Bobby Coon have find two trap set by Farmer Brown 's boy , and Billy Mink have almost step in a third .
No one felt safe any more , yet no one know what to do .
So they all wait for the advice of Great-Grandfather Frog , who , you know , be account very , very wise .
Grandfather Frog clear his throat .
`` Chugarum ! ''
say he .
`` You must find all the trap that Farmer Brown 's boy have set . ''
`` How be we go to do it ? ''
ask Bobby Coon .
`` By look for them , '' reply Grandfather Frog tartly .
Bobby Coon look foolish and slip out of sight behind his mother .
`` All the Coons and all the Minks must search along the bank of the Laughing Brook , and all the Muskrats and all the Otters must search along the bank of the Smiling Pool .
You must use your eye and your nose .
When you find thing good to eat where you have never find them before , watch out !
When you get the first whiff of the man-smell , watch out !
Billy Mink , you be small and quick , and your eye be sharp .
You sit here on the Big Rock until you see Farmer Brown 's boy come .
Then go hide in the bulrush where you can watch him , but where he can not see you .
Follow him everywhere he go around the Smiling Pool or along the Laughing Brook .
Without know it , he will show you where every trap be hide .
`` When all the trap have be find , drop a stick or a stone in each .
That will spring them , and then they will be harmless .
Then you can bury them deep in the mud .
But do n't eat any of the food until you have spring all of the trap , for just as likely a not you will get caught .
When all the trap have be spring , why not bring all the good thing to eat which you find around them to the Big Rock and have a grand feast ? ''
`` Hurrah for Grandfather Frog !
That 's a great idea ! ''
shout Little Joe Otter , turn a somersault in the water .
Every one agree with Little Joe Otter , and immediately they begin to plan a grand hunt for the trap of Farmer Brown 's boy .
The Muskrats and the Otters start to search the bank of the Smiling Pool , and the Coons and the Minks , all but Billy , start for the Laughing Brook .
Billy climb up on the Big Rock to watch , and Grandfather Frog slowly swim back to his big green lily-pad to wait for some foolish green fly for his breakfast .
CHAPTER V : A Busy Day At The Smiling Pool Everybody be excite .
Yes , Sir , everybody in the Smiling Pool and along the Laughing Brook be just bubble over with excitement .
Even Spotty the Turtle , who usually take everything so calmly that some people think him stupid , climb up on the high point of an old log where he could see what be go on .
Only Grandfather Frog , sit on his big green lily-pad and watching for foolish green fly for his breakfast , appear not to know that something unusual be go on .
Really , he be just as much excite a the rest , but because he be very old and account very , very wise , it would not do for him to show it .
What be it all about ?
Why , all the Minks and the Coons and the Otters and the Muskrats , who live and play around the Smiling Pool and the Laughing Brook , be hunt for trap .
Yes , Sir , they be hunt for trap set by Farmer Brown 's boy , just a Grandfather Frog have advise them to .
Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter be hunt together .
They be swim along close to shore just where the Laughing Brook leave the Smiling Pool , when Jerry wrinkle up his funny little nose and stop swim .
Sniff , sniff , sniff , go Jerry Muskrat .
Then little cold shiver run down his backbone and way out to the tip of his tail .
`` What be it ? ''
ask Little Joe Otter .
`` It 's the man-smell , '' whisper Jerry .
Just then Little Joe Otter give a long sniff .
`` My , I smell fish ! ''
he cry , his eye sparkle , and start in the direction from which the smell come .
He swim fast than Jerry , and in a minute he shout in delight .
`` Hi , Jerry !
Some one 's leave a fish on the edge of the bank : What a feast ! ''
Jerry hurry a fast a he could swim , his eye pop out with fright , for the nearer he get , the strong grow that dreadful man-smell .
`` Do n't touch it , '' he pant .
`` Do n't touch it , Joe Otter ! ''
Little Joe laugh .
`` What 's the matter , Jerry ?
` Fraid I 'll eat it all up before you get here ? ''
he ask , a he reach out for the fish .
`` Stop ! ''
shriek Jerry , and give Little Joe a push , just a the latter touch the fish .
Snap !
A pair of wicked steel jaw fly together and catch Little Joe Otter by a claw of one toe .
If it have n't be for Jerry 's push , he would have be catch by a foot .
`` Oh !
Oh !
Oh ! ''
cry Little Joe Otter .
`` Next time I guess you 'll remember what Grandfather Frog say about watch out when you find thing to eat where they never be before , '' say Jerry , a he help Little Joe pull himself free from the trap .
But he leave the claw behind and have a dreadfully sore toe a a result .
Then they bury the trap deep down in the mud and start to look for another .
All around the Smiling Pool and along the Laughing Brook their cousin and uncle and aunt and friend be just a busy , and every once in a while some one would have just a narrow an escape a Little Joe Otter .
And all the time up at the farmhouse Farmer Brown 's boy be plan what he would do with the skin of the little animal he be sure he would catch in his trap .
CHAPTER VI : Farmer Brown 's Boy Is Puzzled Farmer Brown 's boy be whistle merrily a he tramp down across the Green Meadows .
The Merry Little Breezes saw him come , and they race over to the Smiling Pool to tell Billy Mink .
Farmer Brown 's boy be come to visit his trap .
He be very sure that he would find Billy Mink or Little Joe Otter , or Jerry Muskrat , or perhaps Bobby Coon .
Billy Mink be sit on top of the Big Rock .
He saw the Merry Little Breezes race across the Green Meadows , and behind them he saw Farmer Brown 's boy .
Billy Mink dive head first into the Smiling Pool .
Then he swim over to Jerry Muskrat 's house and warn Jerry .
Together they hunt up Little Joe Otter , and then the three little scamp in brown hid in the bulrush , where they could watch Farmer Brown 's boy .
The first place Farmer Brown 's boy visit be Jerry Muskrat 's old log .
Very cautiously he peep over the edge of the bank .
The trap be go !
`` Hurrah ! ''
shout Farmer Brown 's boy .
He be very much excite , a he catch hold of the end of the chain , which fasten it to the old log .
He be sure that at last he have catch Jerry Muskrat .
When he pull the trap up , it be empty .
Between the jaw be a few hair and a little bit of skin , which Jerry Muskrat have leave there when he spring the trap with his tail .
Farmer Brown 's boy be disappoint .
`` Well , I 'll get him to-morrow , anyway , '' say he to himself .
Then he go on to his next trap ; it be nowhere to be see .
When he pull the chain he be so excited that he tremble .
The trap do not come up at once .
He pull and pull , and then suddenly up it come , all cover with mud .
In it be one little claw from Little Joe Otter .
Very carefully Farmer Brown 's boy set the trap again .
If he could have look over in the bulrush and have see Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat watch him and tickle and laughing , he would not have be so sure that next time he would catch Little Joe Otter .
All around the Smiling Pool and then up and down the Laughing Brook Farmer Brown 's boy tramp , and each trap he find sprung and bury in the mud .
He have stop whistle by this time , and there be a puzzled frown on his freckled face .
What do it mean ?
Could some other boy have find all his trap and play a trick by spring all of them ?
The more he think about it , the more puzzle he become .
You see , he do not know anything about the busy day the Minks and the Otters and the Muskrats and the Coons have spend the day before .
Old Grandfather Frog , sit on his big green lily-pad , smooth down his white and yellow waistcoat and wink up at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun a Farmer Brown 's boy tramp off across the Green Meadows .
`` Chugarum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog , a he snap up a foolish green fly .
`` Much good it will do you to set those trap again ! ''
Then Grandfather Frog call to Billy Mink and send him to tell all the other little people of the Smiling Pool and the Laughing Brook that they must hurry and spring all the trap again a they have before .
This time it be easy , because they know just where the trap be , so all day long they drop stick and stone into the trap and once more sprung them .
Then they prepare for a grand feast of the good thing to eat which Farmer Brown 's boy have leave , scatter around the trap .
CHAPTER VII : Jerry Muskrat Makes A Discovery The beautiful springtime have bring a great deal of happiness to the Smiling Pool , a it have to the Green Meadows and to the Green Forest .
Great-Grandfather Frog , who have sleep the long winter away in his own special bed way down in the mud , have wake up with an appetite so great that for a while it seem a if he could think of nothing but his stomach .
Jerry Muskrat have felt the spring fever in his bone and have go up and down the Laughing Brook , poke into all kind of place just for the fun of see new thing .
Little Joe Otter have be more full of fun than ever , if that be possible .
Mr. and Mrs. Redwing have come back to the bulrush from their winter home way down in the warm Southland .
Everybody be happy , just as happy a could be .
One sunny morning Jerry Muskrat sit on the Big Rock in the middle of the Smiling Pool , just thinking of how happy everybody be and laugh at Little Joe Otter , who be cut up all sort of caper in the water .
Suddenly Jerry 's sharp eye saw something that make him wrinkle his forehead in a puzzled frown and look and look at the opposite bank .
Finally he call to Little Joe Otter .
`` Hi , Little Joe !
Come over here ! ''
shout Jerry .
`` What for ? ''
ask Little Joe , turn a somersault in the water .
`` I want you to see if there be anything wrong with my eye , '' reply Jerry .
Little Joe Otter stop swim and star up at Jerry Muskrat .
`` They look all right to me , '' say he , a he start to climb up on the Big Rock .
`` Of course they look all right , '' reply Jerry , `` but what I want to know be if they see all right .
Look over at that bank . ''
Little Joe Otter look over at the bank .
He star and star , but he do n't see anything unusual .
It look just a it always do .
He tell Jerry Muskrat so .
`` Then it must be my eye , '' sigh Jerry .
`` It certainly must be my eye .
It look to me a if the water do not come as high up on the bank a it do yesterday . ''
Little Joe Otter look again and his eye open wide .
`` You be right , Jerry Muskrat ! ''
he cry .
`` There 's nothing the matter with your eye .
The water be as low a it ever get , even in the very middle of summer .
What can it mean ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' reply Jerry Muskrat .
`` It be queer !
It certainly be very queer !
Let 's go ask Grandfather Frog .
You know he be very old and very wise , so perhaps he can tell u what it mean . ''
Splash !
Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter dive into the Smiling Pool and start a race to see who could reach Grandfather Frog first .
He be sit among the bulrush on the edge of the Smiling Pool , for the lily-pads be not yet big enough for him to sit on comfortably .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , what 's the matter with the Smiling Pool ? ''
they shout , a they come up quite out of breath .
`` Chugarum !
There 's nothing the matter with the Smiling Pool ; it 's the best place in all the world , '' reply Grandfather Frog gruffly .
`` But there be something the matter , '' insist Jerry Muskrat , and then he tell what he have discover .
`` I do n't believe it , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` I never heard of such a thing in the springtime . ''
CHAPTER VIII : Grandfather Frog Watches His Toes Grandfather Frog sit among the bulrush on the edge of the Smiling Pool .
Over his head Mr. Redwing be sing a if his heart would burst with the very joy of springtime .
`` Tra-la-la-lee , see me !
See me !
Happy be I a I can be !
Happy be I the whole day long And so I sing my gladsome song . ''
Of course Mr. Redwing be happy .
Why should n't he be ?
Here it be the beautiful springtime , the glad time of all the year , the time when happiness creep into everybody 's heart .
Grandfather Frog listen .
He nod his head .
`` Chugarum !
I 'm happy , too , '' say Grandfather Frog .
But even a he say it , a little worried look creep into his big goggly eye and then down to the corner of his big mouth , which have be stretch in a smile .
Little by little the smile grow small and small , until there be n't any smile .
No , Sir , there be n't any smile .
Instead of look happy , a he say he felt , Grandfather Frog actually look unhappy .
The fact be he could n't forget what Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter have tell him -- that there be something the matter with the Smiling Pool .
He do n't believe it , not a word of it .
At least he try to make himself think that he do n't believe it .
They have say that the water in the Smiling Pool be grow low and low , just a it do in the middle of summer , in the very hot weather .
Now Grandfather Frog be very old and very wise , and he have never hear of such a thing happen in the springtime .
So he would n't believe it now .
And yet -- and yet Grandfather Frog have an uncomfortable feeling that something be wrong .
Ha !
he know now what it be !
He have be sit up to his middle in water , and now he be sit with only his toe in the water , and he could n't remember have change his position !
`` Of course , I move without think what I be do , '' mutter Grandfather Frog , but still the worried look do n't leave his face .
You see he just could n't make himself believe what he want to believe , try a he would .
`` Chugarum !
I know what I 'll do ; I 'll watch my toe ! ''
exclaim Grandfather Frog .
So Grandfather Frog wad out into the water until it cover his foot , and then he sit down and begin to watch his toe .
Mr. Redwing look down and saw him , and Grandfather Frog look so funny gazing at his own toe that Mr. Redwing stop sing long enough to ask : `` What be you do , Grandfather Frog ? ''
`` Watching my toe , '' reply Grandfather Frog gruffly .
`` Watching your toe !
Ho , ho , ho !
Watching your toe !
Who ever heard of such a thing ?
Are you afraid that they will run away , Grandfather Frog ? ''
shout Mr. Redwing .
Grandfather Frog do n't answer .
He keep right on watch his toe .
Mr. Redwing fly away to tell everybody he meet how Grandfather Frog have become foolish and be watch his toe .
The sun shine down warm and bright , and pretty soon Grandfather Frog 's big goggly eye begin to blink .
Then his head begin to nod , and then -- why , then Grandfather Frog fell fast asleep .
By and by Grandfather Frog awake with a start .
He look down at his toe .
They be not in the water at all !
Indeed , the water be a good long jump away .
`` Chugarum !
There be something wrong with the Smiling Pool ! ''
cry Grandfather Frog , a he make a long jump into the water and start to swim out to the Big Rock .
CHAPTER IX : The Laughing Brook Stops Laughing There be something wrong .
Grandfather Frog know it the very minute he get up that morning .
At first he could n't think what it be .
He sit with just his head out of water and blink his great goggly eye , a he try to think what it be that be wrong .
Suddenly Grandfather Frog realize how still it be .
It be a different kind of stillness from anything he could ever remember .
He miss something , and he could n't think what it be .
It be n't the song of Mr. Redwing .
There be many time when he do n't hear that .
It be -- Grand-father Frog give a startled jump out on to the shore .
`` Chugarum !
It 's the Laughing Brook !
The Laughing Brook have stop laugh ! ''
cry Grandfather Frog .
Could it be ?
Who ever heard of such a thing , except when Jack Frost bound the Laughing Brook with hard black ice ?
Why , in the spring and in the summer and in the fall the Laughing Brook have laugh -- such a merry , happy laugh -- ever since Grandfather Frog could remember , and you know he can remember way back in the long ago , for he be very old and very wise .
Never once in all that time have the Laughing Brook fail to laugh .
It could n't be true now !
Grandfather Frog put a hand behind one ear and listen and listen , but not a sound could he hear .
`` Chugarum !
It must be me , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` It must be that I be grow old and deaf .
I 'll go over and ask Jerry Muskrat . ''
So Grandfather Frog dive into the water and swam out to the middle of the Smiling Pool , on his way to Jerry Muskrat 's house .
It be then that he first fully realize the truth of what Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter have tell him the day before -- that there be something very , very wrong with the Smiling Pool .
He stop swim to look around , and it seem a if his great goggly eye would pop right out of his head .
Yes , Sir , it seem a if those great goggly eye certainly would pop right out of Grandfather Frog 's head .
The Smiling Pool have grow so small that there be n't enough of it leave to smile !
`` Where be you go , Grandfather Frog ? ''
ask a voice over his head .
Grandfather Frog look up .
Looking down on him from over the edge of the Big Rock be Jerry Muskrat .
The edge of the Big Rock be twice as high above the water a Grandfather Frog have ever see it before .
`` I -- I -- be go to swim over to your house to see you , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` It 's of no use , '' reply Jerry , `` because I 'm not there .
Besides , you could n't swim there , anyway . ''
`` Why not ? ''
demand Grandfather Frog in great surprise .
`` Because it be n't in the water any long ; it 's way up on dry land , '' say Jerry Muskrat in the most mournful voice .
`` What 's that you say ? ''
cry Grandfather Frog , a if he could n't believe his own ear .
`` It 's just as true a that I 'm sit here , '' reply Jerry sadly .
`` Listen , Jerry Muskrat , and tell me truly ; be the Laughing Brook laugh ? ''
cry Grandfather Frog sharply .
`` No , '' reply Jerry , `` the Laughing Brook have stop laugh , and the Smiling Pool have stop smile , and I think the world be upside down . ''
CHAPTER X : Why The World Seemed Upside Down To Jerry Muskrat Jerry Muskrat sit on the Big Rock in the Smiling Pool , which smile no longer , and hold his head in both hand , for his head ache .
He have think and think and think , until it seem to him that his head would split ; and with all his thinking , he do n't understand thing any more now than he have in the beginning .
You see , Jerry Muskrat 's little world be topsy-turvy .
Yes , Sir , Jerry 's world be upside down !
Anyway , it seem so to him , and he could n't understand it at all .
The Smiling Pool , the Laughing Brook , and the Green Meadows be Jerry Muskrat 's little world .
Now , a he sit on the Big Rock and look about him , the Green Meadows be as lovely a ever .
He could see no change in them .
But the Laughing Brook have stop laugh , and the Smiling Pool have stop smile .
The truth be there be n't enough of the Laughing Brook leave to laugh , and there be n't enough of the Smiling Pool leave to smile .
It be dreadful !
Jerry look over to his house , of which he have once be so proud .
He have build it with the doorway under water .
He have felt perfectly safe there , because no one except Billy Mink or Little Joe Otter , who can swim under water , could reach him .
Now the Smiling Pool have grow so small that Jerry 's house be n't in the water at all .
Anybody who want to could get into it .
There be the doorway plainly to be see .
Worse still , there be the secret entrance to the long tunnel lead to his castle under the root of the Big Hickory-tree .
That have be Jerry 's most secret secret , and now there it be for all the world to see .
And there be all the wonderful cave and hole and hiding-places under the bank which have be know only to Jerry Muskrat and Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter , because the opening have always be under water .
Now anybody could find them , for they be plainly to be see .
And where have always be smile , dimple water , Jerry saw only mud .
It be mud , mud , mud everywhere !
The bulrush , which have always grow with their foot in the water , now have them only in mud , and that be fast dry up .
The lily-pads lay half curl up at the end of their long stem , stretch out on the mud , and look very , very sick .
Jerry turn towards the Laughing Brook .
There be just a little , teeny , weeny stream of water trickle down the middle of it , with here and there a tiny pool in which frighten trout and minnow be crowd .
All the secret of the Laughing Brook be expose , just a be the secret of the Smiling Pool .
Jerry know that if he want to find Billy Mink 's hiding-places , all he need do would be to walk up the Laughing Brook and look .
`` Yes , Sir , the world have turn upside down , '' say Jerry in a mournful voice .
`` I believe it have , '' reply Grandfather Frog , look up from the little pool of water leave at the foot of the Big Rock .
`` I know it have ! ''
cry Jerry .
`` I wonder if it will ever turn upside up again . ''
`` If it do n't , what be you go to do ? ''
ask Grandfather Frog .
`` I do n't know , '' reply Jerry Muskrat .
`` Here come Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink ; let 's find out what they be go to do . ''
CHAPTER XI : Five Heads Together Something have to be do .
Jerry Muskrat say so .
Grandfather Frog say so .
Billy Mink say so .
Little Joe Otter say so .
Even Spotty the Turtle say so .
The Laughing Brook could n't laugh , and the Smiling Pool could n't smile .
You see , there be n't water enough in either of them to laugh or smile , and nobody know if there ever would be again .
Nobody have ever know anything like it before , and so nobody know what to think or do .
And yet they all felt that something must be do .
`` What do you think , Billy Mink ? ''
ask Grandfather Frog .
Billy Mink look down from the top of the Big Rock into the little pool of water that be all there be leave of the Smiling Pool .
He could see a dozen fat trout in it , and he know that he could catch them just as easily a not , because there be no place for them to swim away from him .
But somehow he do n't want to catch them .
He know that they be frighten almost to death already by the run away of nearly all the water from the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool , and somehow he felt sorry for them .
`` I think that the best thing we can do be to move down to the Big River .
I 've be down there , and that 's all right , '' say Billy Mink .
`` That 's what I think , '' say Little Joe Otter .
`` There 's no danger that the Big River will go dry . ''
`` How do you know ? ''
ask Jerry Muskrat .
`` The Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool never go dry before . ''
`` It 's a long , long way down to the Big River , '' break in Spotty the Turtle , who travel very , very slowly and carry his house with him .
`` Chugarum !
I , for one , do n't want to leave the Smiling Pool without find out what the trouble be .
`` There 's nothing happen , a you know , But have a cause to make it so .
`` Now there must be some cause , some reason , for this terrible trouble with the Smiling Pool , and if we can find that out , perhaps we shall know good what to do , '' say Grandfather Frog .
Jerry Muskrat nod his head .
`` Grandfather Frog be right , '' say he .
`` Of course there must be a cause , but where be we to look for it ?
I 've be all over the Smiling Pool , and I 'm sure it be n't there . ''
Grandfather Frog actually smile .
`` Chugarum ! ''
say he .
`` Of course the cause of all the trouble be n't in the Smiling Pool .
Any one would know that ! ''
`` Well , if you know so much , tell u where it be then ! ''
snap Jerry Muskrat .
`` In the Laughing Brook , of course , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` No such thing ! ''
say Billy Mink .
`` I 've be all the way down the Laughing Brook to the Big River , and I do n't find a thing . ''
`` Have you be all the way up the Laughing Brook to the place it start from ? ''
ask Grandfather Frog .
`` No-o , '' reply Billy Mink .
`` Well , that 's where the cause of all the trouble be , '' say Grandfather Frog , just a if he know all about it .
`` It 's the water that come down the Laughing Brook that make the Smiling Pool , and the Smiling Pool never could dry up if the Laughing Brook do n't first stop running . ''
`` That 's so !
I never have think of that , '' cry Little Joe Otter .
`` I tell you what , Billy Mink and I will go way up the Laughing Brook and see what we can find . ''
`` Chugarum !
Let u all go , '' say Grandfather Frog .
Then the five put their head together and decide that they would go up the Laughing Brook to hunt for the trouble .
CHAPTER XII : A Hunt For Trouble Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , sail high in the blue , blue sky , look down on a funny sight .
Yes , Sir , it certainly be a funny sight .
It be a little procession of five of his friend of the Smiling Pool .
First be Billy Mink , who , because he be slim and nimble , move so quickly it sometimes be hard to follow him .
Behind him be Little Joe Otter , whose leg be so short that he almost look a if he have n't any .
Behind Little Joe be Jerry Muskrat , who be a good traveler in the water than on land .
Behind Jerry be Grandfather Frog , who neither walk nor run but travel with great jump .
Last of all be Spotty the Turtle , who travel very , very slowly because , you know , he carry his house with him .
And all five be head up the Laughing Brook , which laugh no more , because there be not water enough in it .
Now Ol ' Mistah Buzzard have n't be over near the Smiling Pool for some time , and he have n't hear how the Smiling Pool have stop smile , and the Laughing Brook have stop laugh .
When he look down and saw how the water be so nearly go from them that the trout and the minnow have hardly enough in which to live , he be so surprised that he keep say over and over to himself : `` Fo ' the lan 's sake !
Fo ' the lan 's sake ! ''
Then , when he saw his five little friend march up the Laughing Brook , he guess right away that it must be something to do with the trouble in the Smiling Pool .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard just turn his broad wing and slide down , down out of the blue , blue sky until he be right over Grandfather Frog .
`` Where be yo'alls go ? ''
ask Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Chugarum !
To find out what be the trouble with the Laughing Brook , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` I 'll help you , '' say Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , once more sail up in the blue , blue sky .
Grandfather Frog watch him until he be nothing but a speck .
`` I wish I have wing , '' sigh Grandfather Frog , and once more begin to hop along up the bed of the Laughing Brook .
The Laughing Brook come down from the Green Forest and wind through the Green Meadows for a little way before it reach the Smiling Pool .
There the sun shone down into it , and Grandfather Frog do n't mind , although his leg be get tire .
But when they get into the Green Forest it be dark and gloomy .
At least Grandfather Frog think so , and so do Spotty the Turtle , for both dearly love the sunshine .
But still they keep on , for they felt that they must find the trouble with the Laughing Brook .
If they find this , they would also find the trouble with the Smiling Pool .
So Billy Mink jump and skip far ahead ; Little Joe Otter run ; Jerry Muskrat walk , for he soon get tire on land ; Grandfather Frog hop ; Spotty the Turtle crawl , and way , way up in the blue , blue sky , OF Mistah Buzzard fly , all look for the trouble which have stop the laughing of the Laughing Brook and the smiling of the Smiling Pool .
CHAPTER XIII : Ol ' Mistah Buzzard Sees Something `` Wait for me ! ''
cry Little Joe Otter to Billy Mink , but Billy Mink be in too much of a hurry and just run faster .
`` Wait for me ! ''
cry Jerry Muskrat to Little Joe Otter , but Little Joe be in too much of a hurry and just run faster .
`` Wait for me ! ''
cry Grandfather Frog to Jerry Muskrat , but Jerry be in too much of a hurry and just walk faster .
`` Wait for me ! ''
cry Spotty the Turtle to Grandfather Frog , but Grandfather Frog be in too much of a hurry and just jump fast .
So running and walking and jumping and crawling , Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Jerry Muskrat , Grandfather Frog , and Spotty the Turtle hurry up the Laughing Brook to try to find out why it laugh no more .
And high overhead in the blue , blue sky sail Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , and he also be look for the trouble that have take away the laugh from the Laughing Brook and the smile from the Smiling Pool .
Now Ol ' Mistah Buzzard 's eye be very sharp , and look down from way up in the blue , blue sky he can see a great deal .
Indeed , Ol ' Mistah Buzzard can see all that be go on below on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest .
His wing be very broad , and he can sail through the air very swiftly when he make up his mind to .
Now , a he look down , he saw that Billy Mink be selfish and would n't wait for Little Joe Otter , and Little Joe Otter be selfish and would n't wait for Jerry Muskrat , and Jerry Muskrat be selfish and would n't wait for Grandfather Frog , and Grandfather Frog be selfish and would n't wait for Spotty the Turtle .
`` Ah reckon Ah will hurry up right smart and find out what the trouble be mahself , and then go back and tell Brer Turtle ; it will save him a powerful lot of work , and it will serve Brer Mink right if Brer Turtle find out first what be the trouble with the Laughing Brook , '' say Ol ' Mistah Buzzard and shot far ahead over the Green Forest towards that part of it from which the Laughing Brook come .
In a few minute he be a far ahead of Billy Mink a Billy be ahead of Spotty the Turtle .
For wing be swifter far than leg , On whatsoever purpose bent , But doubly swift and tireless Those wing on kindly deed intent .
And this be how it happen that Ol ' Mistah Buzzard be the first to find out what it be that have stop the laughing of the Laughing Brook and the smiling of the Smiling Pool , but he be so surprised when he do find out , that he forget all about go back to tell Spotty the Turtle .
He forget everything but his own great surprise , and he blink his eye a great many time to make sure that he be n't dream .
Then he sail around and around in circle , look down among the tree of the Green Forest and say over and over to himself : `` Did yo ' ever ?
No , Ah never !
Did yo ' ever ?
No , Ah never ! ''
CHAPTER XIV : Spotty The Turtle Keeps Right On Going `` One step , two step , three step , so !
Four step , five step , six step go !
Keep right on and do your best ; Mayhap you 'll win while others rest . ''
Spotty the Turtle say this over to himself every time he felt a little down-hearted , a he plod along the bed of the Laughing Brook .
And every time he say it , he felt well .
`` One step , two step , '' he keep say over and over , and each time he say it , he take a step and then another .
They be very short step , very short step indeed , for Spotty 's leg be very short .
But each one carry him forward just so much , and he know that he be just so much nearer the thing he be seek .
Anyway , he hop he be .
You see , if the Laughing Brook would never laugh any more , and the Smiling Pool would never smile any more , there be nothing to do but to go down to the Big River to live , and no one want to do that , especially Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle .
Now , because Billy Mink could go faster than Little Joe Otter , and Little Joe Otter could go faster than Jerry Muskrat , and Jerry could go faster than Grandfather Frog , and Grandfather Frog could go faster than Spotty the Turtle , and because each one want to be the first to find the trouble , no one would wait for the one behind him .
So Spotty the Turtle , who have to carry his house with him , be a long , long way behind the others .
But he keep right on go .
`` One step , two step , three step , so ! ''
and he do n't stop for anything .
He crawl over stick and around big stone and sometimes , when he find a little pool of water , he swim .
He always felt well then , because he can swim fast than he can walk .
After a long , long time , Spotty the Turtle come to a little pool where the sunshine lay warm and inviting .
There , in the middle of it , on a mossy stone , sit Grandfather Frog fast asleep .
He have think that he be so far ahead of Spotty that he could safely rest his tired leg .
Spotty want to climb right up beside him and take a nap too , but he do n't .
He just grin and keep right on go .
`` One step , two step , three step , so ! ''
while Grandfather Frog sleep on .
By and by , after a long , long time Spotty come to another little pool , and who should he see but Jerry Muskrat busily open and eat some freshwater clam which he have find there .
He be so busy enjoy himself that he do n't see Spotty , and Spotty do n't say a word , but keep right on go , although the sight of Jerry 's feast have make him dreadfully hungry .
By and by , after a long , long time , he come to a third little pool with a high , smooth bank , and who should he see there but Little Joe Otter , who have make a slippery slide down the smooth bank and be have a glorious time slide down into the little pool .
Spotty would have like to take just one slide , but he do n't .
He do n't even let Little Joe Otter see him , but keep right on go .
`` One step , two step , three step , so ! ''
By and by , after a long , long time , he come to a hollow log , and just happen to peep in , he saw some one curl up fast asleep .
Who be it ?
Why , Billy Mink , to be sure !
You see , Billy think that he be so far ahead that he might just as well take it easy , and that be what he be do .
Spotty the Turtle do n't waken him .
He just keep right on go the same slow way he have come all day , and so , just a jolly , round , red Mr. Sun be go to bed behind the Purple Hills , Spotty the Turtle find the cause of the trouble in the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool .
CHAPTER XV : What Spotty The Turtle Found Spotty the Turtle star and star and star , until it seem a if his eye surely would pop out of his funny little head .
Of course he could believe his own eye , and yet -- and yet -- well , if anybody else have see what he be look at and have tell him about it , he would n't have believe it .
No , Sir , he would n't have believe it .
You see , he could n't have believe it because -- why , because it do n't seem a if it could be really and truly so .
He wonder if the sun shin in his eye make him think he saw more than he really do see , so he carefully change his position .
It make no difference .
Then Spotty be sure that what he saw be real , and that he have find the cause of the trouble in the Laughing Brook , which have make it stop laughing and the Smiling Pool stop smile .
Spotty the Turtle be feel pretty good .
In fact , Spotty be feel very good indeed , because he have be the first to find out what be the matter with the Laughing Brook .
At least , he think that he be the first , and he be of all the little people who live in the Smiling Pool .
Only Ol ' Mistah Buzzard have be before him , and he do n't count because his wing be broad , and all he have to do be to sail over the Green Forest and look down .
The one who really count be Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat and Grandfather Frog .
Billy Mink have stop for a nap .
Little Joe Otter have stop to play .
Jerry Muskrat have stop to eat .
Grandfather Frog have stop for a sun-nap .
But Spotty the Turtle have keep right on go , and now here he be , the first one to find the cause of the trouble in the Laughing Brook .
Do you wonder that he felt proud and very happy ?
Keeping at it , that 's the way Spotty win the race that day .
But now Spotty be begin to wish that some of the others would hurry up .
He want to know what they think .
He want to talk it all over .
It be such a surprising thing that he could make neither head nor tail of it himself , and he wonder what the others would say .
And now the long black shadow be creep through the Green Forest , and if they do n't get there pretty soon , they would have to wait until the next day .
So Spotty the Turtle find a good place to spend the night , and then he sit down to watch and wait .
Right before him be the thing which he have find and which puzzle him so .
What be it ?
Why , it be a wall .
Yes , Sir , that be just what it be -- a wall of log and stick and mud , and it be right across the Laughing Brook , where the bank be steep and narrow .
Of course the Laughing Brook could laugh no longer ; there could n't enough water get through that wall of log and stick and mud to make even the beginning of a laugh .
Spotty wonder what lay behind that wall , and who have build it , and what for , and a lot of other thing .
And he be still wonder when he fell asleep .
CHAPTER XVI : The Pond In The Green Forest SPOTTY THE TURTLE be awake by the time the first ray of the rise sun begin to creep through the Green Forest .
He be far , far up the Laughing Brook , very much farther than he have ever be before , and a he yawn and stretch , he wonder if after all he have n't dream about the wall of log and stick and mud across the Laughing Brook .
When he have rub the last sleepy-wink out of his eye , he look again .
There it be , just a he have see it the night before !
Then Spotty know that it be real , and he begin to wonder what be on the other side of it .
`` I can not climb it , for my leg be never make for climb , '' say Spotty mournfully a he look at his funny little black foot .
`` Oh , dear , I wish that I could climb like Happy Jack Squirrel ! ''
Just then a thought pop into his head and chase away the little frown that have creep into Spotty 's face .
`` Perhaps Happy Jack sometimes wish that he could swim a I can , so I guess we be even .
I ca n't climb , but he ca n't swim .
How foolish it be to wish for thing never mean for you ! ''
And with that , all the discontent leave Spotty the Turtle , and he begin to study how he could make the most of his short leg and his perseverance , of which , a you already know , he have a great deal .
He look this way , and he look that way , and he saw that if he could climb to the top of the bank on one side of the Laughing Brook , he would be able to walk right out on the strange wall of log and stick and mud , and then , of course , he could see just what be on the other side .
So Spotty the Turtle waste no more time wishing that he could do something it be never mean that he should do .
Instead , he pick out what look like the easy place to climb the bank and start up .
My , my , my , it be hard work !
You see , he have to carry his house along with him , for he have to carry that wherever he go , and it would have be hard enough to have climbed that bank without carry anything .
Every time he have climb up three step he slip back two step , but he keep at it , puff and blowing , say over and over to himself : `` I can if I will , and will if I can !
I 'm sure to get there if I follow this plan . ''
Half-way up the bank Spotty lose his balance , and the house he be carry just tip him right over backward , and down he roll to the place he have start from .
`` I need to cool off , '' say Spotty to himself and slide into a little pool of water .
Then he try the bank again , and just a before he slip back two step for every three he go up .
But he shut his mouth tight and kept at it , and by and by he be up to the place from which he have tumble .
There he stop to get his breath .
`` I can if I will , and will if I can !
I 'm sure to get there if I follow this plan , '' say he and start on again .
Twice more he tumble clear down to the place he have start from , but each time he laugh at himself and try again .
And at last he reach the top of the bank .
`` I say I could if I would , and I would if I could , and I have ! ''
he cry .
Then he hurry to see what be behind the strange wall .
What do you think it be ?
Why , a pond !
Yes , Sir , there be a pond right in the middle of the Green Forest !
Trees be come up right out of the middle of it , but it be a sure enough pond .
Spotty find it hard work to believe his own eye now than when he have first see the strange wall across the Laughing Brook .
`` Why , why , why , what do it mean ? ''
exclaim Spotty the Turtle .
`` That 's what I want to know ! ''
cry Billy Mink , who come hurry up just then .
CHAPTER XVII : Who Had Made The Strange Pond ?
Who have make the strange pond ?
That be what Spotty the Turtle want to know .
That be what Billy Mink want to know .
So do Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat and Grandfather Frog , when they arrive .
So do Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , look down from the blue , blue sky .
It be very strange , very strange indeed !
Never have there be a pond in that part of the Green Forest before , not even in the day when Sister South Wind melt the snow so fast that the Laughing Brook run over it bank and the Smiling Pool grow twice as large a it ought to be .
Of course some one have make it .
Spotty the Turtle have know that as soon a he have see the strange pond .
All in a flash he have understand what that wall of log and brush and mud across the Laughing Brook be for .
It be to stop the water from run down the Laughing Brook .
And of course , if the water could n't keep on run and laugh on it way to the Smiling Pool , it would just stand still and grow and grow into a pond .
Of course !
There be nothing else for it to do .
Spotty felt very proud when he have think that out all by himself .
`` This wall we be sit on have make the pond , '' say Spotty the Turtle , after a long time in which no one have speak .
`` You do n't say so ! ''
say Billy Mink .
`` How ever , ever , do you guess it ?
Are you sure , quite sure that the pond do n't make the wall ? ''
Spotty know that Billy Mink be make fun of him , but he be too good-natured to lose his temper over a little thing like that .
He try to think of something smart to say in reply , but Spotty be a slow thinker as well a a slow walker , and before he could think of anything , Billy be talk once more .
`` This wall be what Farmer Brown 's boy call a dam , '' say Billy Mink , who be a great traveler .
`` Dams be usually build to keep water from run where it be n't want or to make it go where it be want .
Now , what I want to know be , who under the sun want a pond way back here in the Green Forest , and what be it for ?
Who do you think build this dam , Grandfather Frog ? ''
Grandfather Frog shake his head .
His big goggly eye seem more goggly than ever , a he star at the new pond in the Green Forest .
`` I do n't know , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` I do n't know what to think . ''
`` Why , it must be Farmer Brown 's boy or Farmer Brown himself , '' say Jerry Muskrat .
`` Of course , '' say Little Joe Otter , just a if he know all about it .
Still Grandfather Frog shake his head , a if he do n't agree .
`` I do n't know , '' say Grandfather Frog , `` I do n't know .
It do n't look so to me . ''
Billy Mink run along the top of the dam and down the back side .
He look it all over with those sharp little eye of his .
`` Grandfather Frog be right , '' say he , when he come back .
`` It do n't look like the work of Farmer Brown or Farmer Brown 's boy .
But if they do n't do it , who do ?
Who could have do it ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' say Grandfather Frog again , in a dreamy sort of voice .
Spotty the Turtle look at him , and saw that Grandfather Frog 's face wear the far-away look that it always do when he tell a story of the day when the world be young .
`` I do n't know , '' he repeat , `` but it look to me very much like the work of -- '' Grandfather Frog stop short off and turn to Jerry Muskrat .
`` Jerry Muskrat , '' say he , so sharply that Jerry nearly lose his balance in his surprise , `` have your big cousin come down from the North ? ''
CHAPTER XVIII : Jerry Muskrat 's Big Cousin Fiddle , faddle , feedle , fuddle !
Was there ever such a muddle ?
Fuddle , feedle , faddle , fiddle !
Who be there will solve the riddle ?
Here be the Laughing Brook laugh no longer .
Here be the Smiling Pool smile no longer .
Here be a brand new pond deep in the Green Forest .
Here be a wall of log and bush and mud call a dam , build by some one whom nobody have see .
And here be Grandfather Frog ask Jerry Muskrat if his big cousin have come down from the North , when Jerry do n't even know that he have a big cousin .
`` I -- I have n't any big cousin , '' say Jerry , when he have quite recover from his surprise at Grandfather Frog 's question .
`` Chugarum ! ''
exclaim Grandfather Frog , and the scornful way in which he say it make Jerry Muskrat feel very small .
`` Chugarum !
Of course you 've get a big cousin in the North .
Do you mean to tell me that you do n't know that , Jerry Muskrat ? ''
Jerry have to admit that it be true that he do n't know anything about that big cousin .
If Grandfather Frog say that he have one , it must be so , for Grandfather Frog be very old and very wise , and he know a great deal .
Still , it be very hard for Jerry to believe that he have a big cousin of whom he have never hear .
`` Did -- do you ever see him , Grandfather Frog ? ''
Jerry ask .
`` No ! ''
snap Grandfather Frog .
`` I never do , but I know all about him .
He be a great worker , be this big cousin of yours , and he build dam like this one we be sit on . ''
`` I do n't believe it ! ''
cry Billy Mink .
`` I do n't believe any cousin of Jerry Muskrat 's ever build such a dam a this .
Why , just look at that great tree trunk at the bottom !
No one but Farmer Brown or Farmer Brown 's boy could ever have drag that there .
You 're crazy , Grandfather Frog , just plain crazy . ''
Billy Mink sometimes be very disrespectful to Grandfather Frog .
`` Chugarum ! ''
reply Grandfather Frog .
`` I 'm pretty old , but I 'm not too old to learn a some folk seem to be , '' and he look very hard at Billy Mink .
`` Did I say that that tree trunk be drag here ? ''
`` No , '' reply Billy Mink , `` but if it be n't drag here , how do it get here ?
You be so smart , Grandfather Frog , tell me that ! ''
Grandfather Frog blink his great goggly eye at Billy Mink a he say , just a if he be very , very sorry for Billy , `` Your eye be very bright and very sharp , Billy Mink , and it be a great pity that you have never learn how to use them .
That tree be n't drag here ; it be cut so that it fell right where it lie . ''
As he speak , Grandfather Frog point to the stump of the tree , and Billy Mink saw that he be right .
But Billy Mink be like a great many other people ; he dearly love to have the last word .
Now he suddenly begin to laugh .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Ho , ho , ho ! ''
laugh Billy Mink .
`` Ho , ho , ho !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
`` What be it that be so funny ? ''
snap Grandfather Frog , for nothing make him so angry a to be laugh at .
`` Do you mean to say that anybody but Farmer Brown or Farmer Brown 's boy could have cut down such a big tree a that ? ''
ask Billy .
`` Why , that would be as hard a to drag the tree here . ''
`` Jerry Muskrat 's big cousin from the North could do it , and I believe he do , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` Now that we have find the cause of the trouble in the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool , what be we go to do about it ? ''
CHAPTER XIX : Jerry Muskrat Has A Busy Day There be the strange pond in the Green Forest , and there be the dam of log and stick and mud which have make the strange pond , but look a they would , Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat and Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle could see nothing of the one who have build the dam .
It be very queer .
The more they think about it , the queerer it seem .
They look this way , and they look that way .
`` There be one thing very sure , and that be that whoever build this dam have no thought for those who live in the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` They be selfish , just plain , every-day selfish ; that 's what they be !
Now the Laughing Brook can not laugh , and the Smiling Pool can not smile , while this dam stop the water from run , and so -- '' Grandfather Frog stop and look around at his four friend .
`` And so what ? ''
cry Billy Mink impatiently .
`` And so we must spoil this dam .
We must make a place for the water to run through , '' say Grandfather Frog very gravely .
`` Of course !
That 's the very thing ! ''
cry Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat and Spotty the Turtle .
Then Little Joe Otter look at Billy Mink , and Billy Mink look at Jerry Muskrat , and Jerry Muskrat look at Spotty the Turtle , and after that they all look very hard at Grandfather Frog , and all together they ask : `` How be we go to do it ? ''
Grandfather Frog scratch his head thoughtfully and look a long time at the dam of log and stick and mud .
Then his big mouth widen in a big smile .
`` Why , that be very simple , '' say he , `` Jerry Muskrat will make a big hole through the dam near the bottom , because he know how , and the rest of u will keep watch to see that no harm come near . ''
`` The very thing ! ''
cry Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink and Spotty the Turtle , but Jerry Muskrat think it be n't fair .
You see , it give him all of the real work to do .
However , Jerry thought of his dear Smiling Pool , and how terrible it would be if it should smile no more , and so without another word he set to work .
Now Jerry Muskrat be a great worker , and he have make many long tunnel into the bank around the Smiling Pool , so he have no doubt but that he could soon make a hole through this dam .
But almost right away he find trouble .
Yes , Sir , Jerry have hardly begin before he find real trouble .
You see , that dam be make mostly of stick instead of mud , and so , instead of dig his way in a he would have do into the bank of the Smiling Pool , he have to stop every few minute to gnaw off stick that be in the way .
It be hard work , the hard kind of hard work .
But Jerry Muskrat be the kind that be the more determined to do the work the hard the work be to be do .
And so , while Grandfather Frog sit on one end of the dam and pretend to keep watch , but really take a nap in the warm sunshine , and while Spotty the Turtle sit on the other end of the dam do the same thing , and while Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter swam around in the strange pond and enjoy themselves , Jerry Muskrat work and work and work .
And just a jolly , round , red Mr. Sun start down behind the Purple Hills , Jerry break through into the strange pond , and the water begin to run in the Laughing Brook once more .
CHAPTER XX : Jerry Has A Dreadful Disappointment There 's nothing in this world that 's sure , No matter how we scheme and plan .
We simply have to be content With do just the best we can .
Jerry Muskrat have curl himself up for the night , so tire that he could hardly keep his eye open long enough to find a comfortable place to sleep .
But he be happy .
Yes , indeed , Jerry be happy .
He could hear the Laughing Brook begin to laugh again .
It be just a little low , gurgle laugh , but Jerry know that in a little while it would grow into the full laugh that make music through the Green Forest and put happiness into the heart of all who hear it .
So Jerry be happy , for be it not because of him that the Laughing Brook be begin to laugh ?
He have work all the long day to make a hole through the dam which some one have build across the Laughing Brook and so stop it laughter .
Now the water be run again , and soon the new , strange pond behind the dam there in the Green Forest would be go , and the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool would be their own beautiful self once more .
It be because he have work so hard all day that he be go to sleep now .
Usually he would rather sleep a part of the day and be abroad at night .
Very pleasant dream have Jerry Muskrat that night , dream of the dear Smiling Pool , smile just a it have as long a Jerry could remember , before this trouble have come .
He be still dream when Spotty the Turtle find him and wake him , for it be broad daylight .
Jerry yawn and stretch , and then he lay still for a minute to listen to the pleasant murmur of the Laughing Brook .
But there be n't any pleasant murmur .
There be n't any sound at all .
Jerry begin to wonder if he really be awake after all .
He look at Spotty the Turtle , and he know then that he be , for Spotty 's face have such a worried look .
`` Get up , Jerry Muskrat , and come look at the hole you make yesterday in the dam .
You could n't have do your work very well , for the hole have fill up so that the water do not run any more , '' say Spotty .
`` I do do it well ! ''
snap Jerry crossly .
`` I do it just as well a I know how .
You lazy folk who just sit and take sun-naps while you pretend to keep watch have good get busy and do a little work yourselves , if you do n't like the way I work . ''
`` I -- I beg your pardon , Jerry Muskrat .
I do n't mean to say just that , '' reply Spotty .
`` You see , we be all worried .
We think last night that by this morning the Laughing Brook would be full of water again , and we could go back to the Smiling Pool as soon a we felt like it , and here it be as bad a ever . ''
`` Perhaps the trouble be just that some stick and grass drift down in the water and fill up the hole I make ; that must be the trouble , '' say Jerry hopefully , a he hurry towards the dam .
First he carefully examine it from the Laughing Brook side .
Then he dive down under water on the other side .
He be go a long time , and Billy Mink be just get ready to dive to see what have become of him when he come up again .
`` What be the trouble ? ''
cry Spotty the Turtle and Grandfather Frog and Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter together .
`` Is the hole fill up with stuff that have drift in ? ''
Jerry shake his head , a he slowly climb out of the water .
`` No , '' say he .
`` No , it be n't fill with drift stuff bring down by the water .
It be fill with stick and mud that somebody have put there .
Somebody have fill up the hole that I work so hard to make yesterday , and it will take me all day to open it up again . ''
Then Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle and Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat star at one mother , and for a long time no one say a word .
CHAPTER XXI : Jerry Muskrat Keeps Watch `` The way in which to find thing out , And what go on all round about , Is just to keep my two eye peel And two ear all the time unsealed . ''
So say Jerry Muskrat , a he settle himself comfortably on one end of the new dam across the Laughing Brook deep in the Green Forest and watch the dark shadow creep far and farther out into the strange pond make by the new dam .
`` I 'm go to find out who it be that built this dam , and who it be that fill the hole I make in it !
I 'm go to find out if I have to move up here and live all summer ! ''
The way in which Jerry say this and snap his teeth together show that he mean just what he say .
You see Jerry have spend another long , weary day open the hole in the dam once more , only to have it close again while he sleep .
That have be enough for Jerry .
He have n't try again .
Instead he have make up his mind that he would find out who be play such a trick on him .
He would just watch until they come , and then if they be not big than he , or there be not too many of them , he would -- well , the way Jerry grit and clash those sharp teeth of his sound a if he mean to do something pretty bad .
Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter have give up in disgust and start for the Big River .
They be great traveler , anyway , and so do n't mind so much because there be no longer water enough in the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool .
Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle , who be such very , very slow traveler , have decide that the Big River be too far away , and so they would stay and live in the strange pond for a while , though it be n't nearly so nice a their dear Smiling Pool .
They bad go to sleep now , each in his own secret place where he would be safe for the night .
So Jerry Muskrat sit alone and watch .
The black shadow creep far and far across the pond and grow blacker and blacker .
Jerry do n't mind this , because , a you know , his eye be make for see in the dark , and he dearly love the night .
Jerry have sit there a long time without move .
He be listen and watch .
By and by he saw something that make him draw in his breath and anger leap into his eye .
It be a little silver line on the water , and it be come straight towards the dam where he sit .
Jerry know that it be make by some one swimming .
`` Ha ! ''
say Jerry .
`` Now we shall see ! ''
Nearer and nearer come the silver line .
Then Jerry make out the head of the swimmer .
Suddenly all the anger leave Jerry .
He do n't have room for anger ; a great fear have crowd it out .
The head be big than that of any Muskrat Jerry have ever see .
It be big than the head of any of Billy Mink 's relative .
It be the head of a stranger , a stranger so big that Jerry felt very , very small and hop with all his might that the stranger would not see him .
Jerry hold his breath a the stranger swam past and then climb out on the dam .
He look very much like Jerry himself , only ever and ever so much big .
And his tail !
Jerry have never see such a tail .
It be very broad and flat .
Suddenly the big stranger turn and look straight at Jerry .
`` Hello , Jerry Muskrat ! ''
say he .
`` Do n't you know me ? ''
Jerry be too frighten to speak .
`` I 'm your big cousin from the North ; I 'm Paddy the Beaver , and if you leave my dam alone , I think we 'll be good friend , '' continue the stranger .
`` I -- I -- I hope so , '' say Jerry in a very faint voice , try to be polite , but with his teeth chatter with fear .
CHAPTER XXII : Jerry Loses His Fear `` Oh , tell me , you and you and you , If it may hap you 've ever hear Of all that wond ` rous be and great The great be the spoken word ? ''
It 's true .
It 's the true thing that ever be .
If you do n't believe it , you just go ask Jerry Muskrat .
He 'll tell you it 's true , and Jerry know .
You see , it 's this way : Words be more than just sound .
Oh , my , yes !
They be little messenger , and once they have be send out , you ca n't call them back .
No , Sir , you ca n't call them back , and sometimes that be a very sad thing , because -- well , you see these little messenger always carry something to some one else , and that something may be anger or hate or fear or an untruth , and it be these thing which make most of the trouble in this world .
Or that something may be love or sympathy or helpfulness or kindness , and it be these thing which put an end to most of the trouble in this world .
Just take the ease of Jerry Muskrat .
There he sit on the new dam , which have make the strange pond in the Green Forest , shake with fear until his teeth chatter , a he watch a stranger very , very much big than he climb up on the dam .
Jerry be afraid , because he have see that the stranger could swim as well a he could , and a Jerry have no secret burrow there , he know that he could n't get away from the stranger if he want to .
Somehow , Jerry know without be tell that the stranger have build the dam , and you know Jerry have twice make a hole in the dam to let the water out of the strange pond into the Laughing Brook .
Jerry know right down in his heart that if he have build that dam , he would be very , very angry with any one who try to spoil it , and that be just what he have try to do .
So he sit with chatter teeth , too frighten to even try to run .
`` I wish I have let some one else keep watch , '' say Jerry to himself .
Then the big stranger have speak .
He have say : `` Hello , Jerry Muskrat !
Do n't you know me ? ''
and his voice have n't sound the least bit angry .
Then he have tell Jerry that he be his big cousin , Paddy the Beaver , and he hop that they would be friend .
Now everything be just a it have be before -- the strange pond , the dam , Jerry himself and the big stranger , and the black shadow of the night -- and yet somehow , everything be different , all because a few pleasant word have be speak .
A great fear have fall away from Jerry 's heart , and in it place be a great hope that after all there be n't to be any trouble .
So he reply to Paddy the Beaver as politely a he know how .
Paddy be just a polite , and the first thing Jerry know , instead of be enemy , a Jerry have all along make up his mind would be the case when he find the builder of the dam , here they be become the best of friend , all because Paddy the Beaver have say the right thing in the right way .
`` But you have n't tell me yet what you make those hole in my dam for , Cousin Jerry , '' say Paddy the Beaver finally .
Jerry do n't know just what to say .
He be so pleased with his big new cousin that he do n't want to hurt his feeling by tell him that he do n't think that dam have any business to be across the Laughing Brook , and at the same time he want Paddy to know how he have spoil the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool .
At last he make up his mind to tell the whole story .
CHAPTER XXIII : Paddy The Beaver Does A Kind Deed Paddy the Beaver listen to all that his small cousin , Jerry Muskrat , have to tell him about the trouble which Paddy 's dam have cause in the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool .
`` You see , we who live in the Smiling Pool love it dearly , and we do n't want to have to leave it , but if the water can not run down the Laughing Brook , there can be no Smiling Pool , and so we will have to move off to the Big River , '' conclude Jerry Muskrat .
`` That be why I try to spoil your dam . ''
There be a twinkle in the eye of Paddy the Beaver a he reply : `` Well , now that you have find out that you ca n't do that , because I be big than you and can stop you , what be you go to do about it ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' say Jerry Muskrat sadly .
`` I do n't see what we can do about it .
Of course you be big and strong and can do just a you please , but it do n't seem right that we who have live here so long should have to move and go away from all that we love so just because you , a stranger , happen to want to live here .
I tell you what ! ''
Jerry 's eye sparkle a a brand new thought come to him .
`` Could n't you come down and live in the Smiling Pool with u ?
I 'm sure there be room enough ! ''
Paddy the Beaver shake his head .
`` No , '' say he , and Jerry 's heart sank .
`` No , I ca n't do that because down there there be n't any of the kind of food I eat .
Besides , I would n't feel at all safe in the Smiling Pool .
You see , I always live in the wood .
No , I could n't possibly come down to live in the Smiling Pool .
But I 'm truly sorry that I have make you so much worry , Cousin Jerry , and I 'm go to prove it to you .
Now you sit right here until I come back . ''
Before Jerry realize what he be go to do , Paddy the Beaver dive into the pond , and a he disappear , his broad tail hit the water such a slap that it make Jerry jump .
Then there begin a great disturbance down under water .
In a few minute up bob a stick , and then another and another , and the water grow so muddy that Jerry could n't see what be go on .
Paddy be go a long time .
Jerry wonder how he could stay under water so long without air .
All the time Paddy be just fool him .
He would come up to the surface , stick his nose out , nothing more , fill his lung with fresh air , and go down again .
Suddenly Jerry Muskrat hear a sound that make him prick up his funny little short ear and whirl about so that he could look over the other side of the dam into the Laughing Brook .
What do you think that sound be ?
Why , it be the sound of rush water , the sweet sound Jerry have listen to for a long time .
There be a great hole in the dam , and already the brook be begin to laugh a the water rush down it .
`` How do you like that , Cousin Jerry ? ''
say a voice right in his ear .
Paddy the Beaver have climb up beside him , and his eye be twinkle .
`` It -- it 's splendid ! ''
cry Jerry .
`` But -- but you 've spoil your dam ! ''
`` Oh , that 's all right , '' reply Paddy .
`` I do n't really want it now , anyway .
I do n't usually build dam at this time of year , and I build this one just for fun because it seem such a nice place to build one .
You see , I be travel through here , and it seem such a nice place , that I think I would stay a while .
I do n't know anything about the Smiling Pool , you know .
Now , I guess I 'll have to move on and find a place where I can make a pond in the fall that will not trouble other people .
You see , I do n't like to be trouble myself , and so I do n't want to trouble other people .
This Green Forest be a very nice place . ''
`` The very nice place in all the world except the Green Meadows and the Smiling Pool ! ''
reply Jerry promptly .
`` Wo n't you stay , Cousin Paddy ?
I 'm sure we would all like to have you . ''
`` Of course we would , '' say a gruff voice right beside them .
It be Grandfather Frog .
Paddy the Beaver look thoughtful .
`` Perhaps I will , '' say he , `` if I can find some good hiding-places in the Laughing Brook . ''
CHAPTER XXIV : A Merry Home-Going `` The Laughing Brook be merry And so be I , '' cry Jerry .
Grandfather Frog say he be too .
And Spotty be , the others know .
The tree stand with wet foot where just a little while before have be the strange pond in the Green Forest , the pond make by the dam of Paddy the Beaver .
In the dam be a great hole make by Paddy himself .
Through the Green Forest ring the laughter of the Laughing Brook , for once more the water run deep between it bank .
And in the heart of Grandfather Frog and Jerry Muskrat and Spotty the Turtle be laughter also , for now the Smiling Pool would smile once more , and they could go home in peace and happiness .
And there be one more who laugh .
Who be it ?
Why , Paddy the Beaver to be sure , and his be the best laugh of all , for it be because he have bring happiness to others .
`` You beat me up here to the dam , but you wo n't beat me back to the Smiling Pool , '' cry Jerry Muskrat to Spotty the Turtle .
Spotty laugh good-naturedly .
`` You 'd better not stop to eat or play or sleep on the way then , '' say he , `` for I shall keep right on go all the time .
I 've find that be the only way to get anywhere . ''
`` Let u all go down together '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` We can help each other over the bad place . ''
Jerry Muskrat laugh until he have to hold his side at the very thought of Grandfather Frog or Spotty the Turtle be able to help him , but he be very good-natured , and so he agree that they should all go down together .
Paddy the Beaver say that he would go , too , so off the four start , Jerry Muskrat and Paddy the Beaver swim side by side , and behind them Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle .
Now Spotty the Turtle be a very slow traveler on land , but in the water Spotty be not so slow .
In fact , it be not long before Grandfather Frog find that he be the one who could not keep up .
You see , while he be a great diver and can swim fast for a short distance , he be soon tire out .
Pretty soon he be puff and blow and drop far and far behind .
By and by , Spotty the Turtle look back .
There be Grandfather Frog just tumble head first over a little waterfall .
He come up choking and gasping and kick his long legs very feebly .
Spotty climb out on a rock and wait .
He help Grandfather Frog out beside him , and when Grandfather Frog have once more gotten his breath , what do you think Spotty do ?
Why , he take Grandfather Frog right on his back and start on again .
Now Jerry Muskrat and Paddy the Beaver , be great swimmer , be soon out of sight .
All at once Jerry remember that they have agree to go back together , and down in his heart he felt a little bit mean when he look for Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle and could see nothing of them .
So he and Paddy sit down to wait .
After what seem a long time , they saw something queer bob along in the water .
`` It 's Grandfather Frog , '' cry Paddy the Beaver .
`` No , it 's Spotty the Turtle , '' say Jerry Muskrat .
`` It 's both , '' reply Paddy , begin to laugh .
Just then Spotty tumble over another waterfall which he have n't see , and of course Grandfather Frog go with him and lose his hold on Spotty 's back .
`` I have an idea ! ''
cry Paddy .
`` What be it ? ''
ask Jerry .
`` Why , Grandfather Frog can ride on my flat tail , '' reply Paddy , `` and then we 'll go slow enough for Spotty to keep up with u . ''
And so it be that just a the first moonbeam kiss the Smiling Pool , out of the Laughing Brook swim the merry party that ever be see .
`` Chugarum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog .
`` It be good to be home , but I think I would travel often , if I could have the tail of Paddy the Beaver for a boat . ''
CHAPTER XXV : Paddy The Beaver Decides To Stay `` The fair Green Meadows spreading wide , The Smiling Pool and Laughing Brook -- They fill our heart with joy and pride ; We love their every hidden nook . ''
So say Jerry Muskrat , a he climb up on the Big Rock in the middle of the Smiling Pool , with Paddy the Beaver beside him , and watch the dear Smiling Pool dimpling and smiling in the moonlight , a he have so often see it before the great trouble have come .
`` Chugarum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog in his great deep voice from the bulrush .
`` One never know how great their blessing be until they have be lose and find again . ''
The bulrush nod , a if they too be think of this .
You see their foot be once more in the cool water .
Paddy the Beaver seem to understand just how every one felt , and he smile to himself a he saw how happy these new friend of his be .
`` It surely be a very nice place here , and I do n't wonder that you could n't bear to leave it , '' say he .
`` I 'm sorry that I make you all that trouble and worry , but you see I do n't know . ''
`` Oh , that 's all right , '' reply Jerry Muskrat , who be now very proud of his big cousin .
`` I hope that now you see how nice it be , you will stay and make your home here . ''
Paddy the Beaver look back at the great black shadow which he know be the Green Forest .
Way over in the middle of it he hear the hunting-call of Hooty the Owl .
Then he look out over the Green Meadows , and from way over on the far side of them sound the bark of Reddy Fox , and it be answer by the deep voice of Bowser the Hound up in Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
For some reason that last sound make Paddy the Beaver shiver a little , just a the voice of Hooty the Owl make the small people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows shiver when they hear it .
Paddy be n't afraid of Hooty or of Reddy Fox , but Bowser 's great voice be new to him , and somehow the very sound of it make him afraid .
You see , the Green Meadows be so strange and open that he do n't feel at all at home , for he dearly love the deep part of the Green Forest .
`` No , '' say Paddy the Beaver , `` I ca n't possibly live here in the Smiling Pool .
It be a very nice pool , but it would n't do at all for me , Cousin Jerry .
I would n't feel safe here a minute .
Besides , there be nothing to eat here . ''
`` Oh , yes , there be , '' Jerry Muskrat interrupt .
`` There be lily-roots and the nice fresh-water clam and -- '' `` But there be no tree , '' say Paddy the Beaver , `` and you know I have to have tree . ''
Jerry star at Paddy a if he do n't understand .
`` Do -- do you eat tree ? ''
he ask finally .
Paddy laugh .
`` Just the bark , '' say he , `` and I have to have a great deal of it . ''
Jerry look as disappointed a he felt .
`` Of course you ca n't stay then , '' say he , `` and -- and I have think that we would have such good time together . ''
Paddy 's eye twinkle .
`` Perhaps we may yet , '' say he .
`` You see I have about make up my mind that I will stay a while along the Laughing Brook in the Green Forest , and you can come to see me there .
On our way down I saw a very nice hole in the bank that I think will make me a good house for the present , and you can come up there to see me .
But if I do stay , you and Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle must keep my secret .
No one must know that I be there .
Will you ? ''
`` Of course we will ! ''
cry Jerry Muskrat and Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle together .
`` Then I 'll stay , '' say Paddy the Beaver , dive into the Smiling Pool with a great splash .
And so one of Jerry Muskrat 's great adventure end in the finding of his big cousin , Paddy the Beaver .
Now Jerry have a lot of cousin , and one of them live on the Green Meadows not far from the Smiling Pool .
His name be Danny Meadow Mouse , and Danny be forever have adventure too .
He have them every day .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Jimmy_Skunk.txt.out
I PETER RABBIT PLANS A JOKE The Imp of Mischief , woe be me , Is always busy a a bee .
That be why so many people be forever get into trouble .
He wo n't keep still .
No , Sir , he wo n't keep still unless he be make to .
Once let him get start there be no know where he will stop .
Peter Rabbit have just see Jimmy Skunk disappear inside an old barrel , lie on it side at the top of the hill , and at once the Imp of Mischief begin to whisper to Peter .
Of course Peter should n't have listen .
Certainly not .
But he do .
You know Peter dearly love a joke when it be on some one else .
He sit right where he be and watch to see if Jimmy would come out of the barrel .
Jimmy do n't come out , and after a little Peter stole over to the barrel and peep inside .
There be Jimmy Skunk curl up for a nap .
Peter tiptoe away very softly .
All the time the Imp of Mischief be whisper to him that this be a splendid chance to play a joke on Jimmy .
You know it be very easy to play a joke on any one who be asleep .
Peter do n't often have a chance to play a joke on Jimmy Skunk .
It be n't a very safe thing to do , not if Jimmy be awake .
No one know that good than Peter .
He sit down some distance from the barrel but where he could keep an eye on it .
Then he go into a brown study , which be one way of say that he think very hard .
He want to play a joke on Jimmy , but like most joker he do n't want the joke to come back on himself .
In fact , he felt that it would be a great deal well for him if Jimmy should n't know that he have anything to do with the joke .
As he sit there in a brown study , he happen to glance over on the Green Meadows and there he saw something red .
He look very hard , and in a minute he saw that it be Reddy Fox .
Right away , Peter 's nimble wit begin to plan how he could use Reddy Fox to play a joke on Jimmy .
All in a flash an idea come to him , an idea that make him laugh right out .
You see , the Imp of Mischief be very , very busy whisper to Peter .
`` If Reddy be only up here , I believe I could do it , and it would be a joke on Reddy as well a on Jimmy , '' think Peter , and laugh right out again .
`` What be you laugh at ? ''
ask a voice .
It be the voice of Sammy Jay .
Right away a plan for get Reddy up there flash into Peter 's head .
He would get Sammy angry , and that would make Sammy scream .
Reddy would be sure to come up there to see what Sammy Jay be make such a fuss about .
Sammy , you know , be very quick-tempered .
No one know this good than Peter .
So instead of reply politely to Sammy , a he should have do , Peter speak crossly : `` Fly away , Sammy , fly away !
It be no business of yours what I be laugh at , '' say he .
Right away Sammy 's quick temper flare up .
He begin to call Peter name , and Peter answer back .
This anger Sammy still more , and a he always scream when he be angry , he be soon make such a racket that Reddy Fox down on the Green Meadows could n't help but hear it .
Peter saw him lift his head to listen .
In a few minute he begin to trot that way .
He be come to find out what that fuss be about .
Peter know that Reddy would n't come straight up there .
That be n't Reddy 's way .
He would steal around back of the old stone wall on the edge of the Old Orchard , which be back of Peter , and would try to see what be go on without be see himself .
`` As soon a he see me he will think that at last he have a chance to catch me , '' think Peter .
`` I shall have to run my very fast , but if everything go right , he will soon forget all about me .
I do hope that the noise Sammy Jay be make will not waken Jimmy Skunk and bring him out to see what be go on . ''
So with one eye on the barrel where Jimmy Skunk be take a nap , and the other eye on the old stone wall behind which he expect Reddy Fox to come steal up , Peter wait and do n't mind in the least the name that Sammy Jay be call him .
II PETER MAKES A FLYING JUMP To risk your life unless there 's need Is downright foolishness indeed .
Never forget that .
Never do such a crazy thing a Peter Rabbit be do .
What be he do ?
Why , he be run the risk of be catch by Reddy Fox all for the sake of a joke .
Did you ever hear of anything more foolish ?
Yet Peter be no different from a lot of people who every day risk their life in the most careless and heedless way just to save a few minute of time or for some other equally foolish reason .
The fact be , Peter do n't stop to think what dreadful thing might happen if his plan do n't work out a he intend .
He do n't once think of little Mrs. Peter over in the dear Old Briar-patch and how she would feel if he never come home again .
That 's the trouble with thoughtlessness ; it never remember other people .
All the time that Reddy Fox be creep along behind the old stone wall on the edge of the Old Orchard , Peter know just where he be , though Reddy do n't know that .
If he have know it , he would have suspect one of Peter 's trick .
`` He 'll peep over that wall , and just as soon a he see me , he will feel sure that this time he will catch me , '' think Peter .
`` He will steal along to that place where the wall be low and will jump over it right there .
I must be ready to jump the very second he do . ''
It all happen just a Peter have expect .
While seem to be pay no attention to anything but to Sammy Jay , he keep his eye on that low place in the old wall , and presently he saw Reddy 's sharp nose , a Reddy peep over to make sure that he be still there .
The instant that sharp nose drop out of sight , Peter make ready to run for his life .
A second later , Reddy leap over the wall , and Peter be off as hard a he could go , with Reddy almost at his heel .
Sammy Jay , who have be so busy call Peter name that he have n't see Reddy at all , forget all about his quarrel with Peter .
`` Go it , Peter !
Go it ! ''
he scream excitedly .
That be just like Sammy .
Peter do go it .
He have to .
He run with all his might .
Reddy grin a he saw Peter start towards the Green Meadows .
It be a long way to the dear Old Briar-patch , and Reddy do n't have any doubt at all that he would catch Peter before he get there .
He watch sharply for Peter to dodge and try to get back to the old stone wall .
He do n't mean to let Peter do that .
But Peter do n't even try .
He run straight for the edge of the hill above the Green Meadows .
Then , for the first time , Reddy notice an old barrel there lie on it side .
`` I wonder if he think he can hide in that , '' think Reddy , and grin again , for he remember that he have pass that old barrel a few day before , and that one end be open while the other end be close .
`` If he try that , I will get him without the trouble of much of a chase , '' think Reddy , and chuckle .
Lipperty-lipperty-lip ran Peter , lipperty-lipperty-lip , Reddy right at his heel !
To Sammy Jay it look a if in a few more jump Reddy certainly would catch Peter .
`` Go it , Peter !
Oh , go it !
Go it ! ''
scream Sammy , for in spite of his quarrel with Peter , he do n't want to see him come to any real harm .
Just a he reach the old barrel , Reddy be so close to him that Peter be almost sure that he could feel Reddy 's breath .
Then Peter make a splendid fly jump right over the old barrel and keep on down the hill , lipperty-lipperty-lip , a fast a ever he could , straight for an old house of Johnny Chuck 's of which he know .
When he reach it , he turn to see what be happen behind him , for he know by the screaming of Sammy Jay and by other sound that a great deal be happen .
In fact , he suspect that the joke which he have plan be work out just a he have hop it would .
III WHAT HAPPENED AT THE OLD BARREL Peter Rabbit 's jump over the old barrel on the edge of the hill be unexpected to Reddy Fox .
In fact , Reddy be so close on Peter 's heel that he have no thought of anything but catch Peter .
He be run so fast that when Peter make his fly jump over the barrel , Reddy do not have time to jump too , and he run right smack bang against that old barrel .
Now you remember that that barrel be right on the edge of the hill .
When Reddy run against it , he hit it so hard that he roll it over , and of course that start it down the hill .
You know a barrel be a very rolly sort of thing , and once it have start down a hill , nothing can stop it .
It be just so this time .
Reddy Fox have no more than pick himself up when the barrel be half way down the hill and go faster and faster .
It bounce along over the ground , and every time it hit a little hummock it seem to jump right up in the air .
And all the time it be make the strange noise .
Reddy quite forget the smarting sore place where he have bump into the barrel .
He simply stand and star at the runaway .
`` As I live , '' he exclaim , `` I believe there be some one in that old barrel ! ''
There be .
You remember that Jimmy Skunk have curl up in there for a nap .
Now Jimmy be awake , very much awake .
You see , for once in his life he be move fast , very much faster than ever he have move before since he be bear .
And it be n't at all comfortable .
No , Sir , it be n't at all a comfortable way in which to travel .
He go over and over so fast that it make him dizzy .
First he be right side up and then wrong side up , so fast that he could n't tell which side up he be .
And every time that old barrel jump when it go over a hummock , Jimmy be toss up so that he hit whatever part of the barrel happen to be above him .
Of course , he could n't get out , because he be roll over and over so fast that he do n't have a chance to try .
Now Reddy do n't know who be in the barrel .
He just know by the sound that some one be .
So he start down the hill after the barrel to see what would happen when it stop .
All the time Peter Rabbit be dance about in the great excitement , but take the great care to keep close to that old house of Johnny Chuck 's so a to pop into it in case of danger .
He saw that Reddy Fox have quite forget all about him in his curiosity a to who be in the barrel , and he chuckle a he think of what might happen when the barrel stop roll and Reddy find out .
Sammy Jay be fly overhead , scream enough to split his throat .
Altogether , it be quite the most exciting thing Peter have ever see .
Now it just happen that Old Man Coyote have start to cross the Green Meadows right at the foot of the hill just a the barrel start down .
Of course , he hear the noise and look up to see what it mean .
When he saw that barrel rush right down at him , it frighten him so that he just give one yelp and start for the Old Pasture like a gray streak .
He give Peter a chance to see just how fast he can run , and Peter make up his mind right then that he never would run a race with Old Man Coyote .
Down at the bottom of the hill be a big stone , and when the barrel hit this , the hoop break , and the barrel fell all apart .
Peter decide that it be high time for him to get out of sight .
So he dodge into the old house of Johnny Chuck and lay low in the doorway , where he could watch .
He saw Jimmy Skunk lay perfectly still , and a great fear crept into his heart .
Had Jimmy be kill ?
He have n't once think of what might happen to Jimmy when he plan that joke .
But presently Jimmy begin to wave first one leg and then another , a if to make sure that he have some legs left .
Then slowly he roll over and get on to his foot .
Peter breathe a sigh of relief .
IV JIMMY SKUNK IS VERY MAD INDEED When Jimmy Skunk be angry Then every one watch out !
It 's good far at such a time To be nowhere about .
Jimmy Skunk be angry this time and no mistake .
He be just plain mad , and when Jimmy Skunk feel that way , no one want to be very near him .
You know he be one of the very best-natured little fellow in the world ordinarily .
He mind his own business , and if no one interfere with him , he interfere with no one .
But once he be arouse and feel that he have n't be treat fairly , look out for him !
And this time Jimmy be mad clear through , a he get to his foot and shook himself to see that he be all there .
I do n't know that any one could blame him .
To be waken from a comfortable nap by be roll over and over and shake nearly to death a Jimmy have be by that wild ride down the hill in the old barrel be enough to make any one mad .
So he really be not to be blame for feeling a he do .
Now Jimmy can never be accuse of be stupid .
He know that an old barrel which have be lie in one place for a long time do n't move of it own accord .
He know that that barrel could n't possibly have start off down the hill unless some one have make it start , and he do n't have a doubt in the world that whoever have do it , have know that he be inside and have do it to make him uncomfortable .
So just as soon a he have make sure that he be really alive and quite whole , he look about to see who could have play such a trick on him .
The first person he saw be Reddy Fox .
In fact , Reddy be right close at hand .
You see , he have race down the hill after the barrel to see who be in it when he hear the strange noise come from it a it roll and bound down .
If Reddy have know that it be Jimmy Skunk , he would have be quite content to remain at the top of the hill .
But he do n't know , and if the truth be know , he have hop that it might prove to be some one who would furnish him with a good breakfast .
So , quite out of breath with running , Reddy arrive at the place where the old barrel have break to piece just a Jimmy get to his foot .
Now when Jimmy Skunk be angry , he do n't bite and he do n't scratch .
You know Old Mother Nature have provide him with a little bag of perfume which Jimmy do n't object to in the least , but which make most people want to hold their nose and run .
He never use it , except when he be angry or in danger , but when he do use it , his enemy always turn tail and run .
That be why he be afraid of no one , and why every one respect Jimmy and his right .
He use it now , and he do n't waste any time about it .
He throw some of that perfume right in the face of Reddy Fox before Reddy have a chance to turn or to say a word .
`` Take that ! ''
snap Jimmy Skunk .
`` Perhaps it will teach you not to play trick on your honest neighbor ! ''
Poor Reddy !
Some of that perfume get in his eye and make them smart dreadfully .
In fact , for a little while he could n't see at all .
And then the smell of it be so strong that it make him quite sick .
He roll over and over on the ground , choke and gasp and rub his eye .
Jimmy Skunk just stand and look on , and there be n't a bit of pity in his eye .
`` How do you like that ? ''
say he .
`` You think yourself very smart , roll me down hill in a barrel , do n't you ?
You might have break my neck . ''
`` I do n't know you be in that barrel , and I do n't mean to roll it down the hill anyway , '' whine Reddy , when he could get his voice .
`` Huh ! ''
snort Jimmy Skunk , who do n't believe a word of it .
`` I do n't .
Honestly I do n't , '' protest Reddy .
`` I run against the barrel by accident , chase Peter Rabbit .
I do n't have any idea that any one be in it . ''
`` Huh ! ''
say Jimmy Skunk again .
`` If you be chase Peter Rabbit , where be he now ? ''
Reddy have to confess he do n't know .
He be nowhere in sight , and he certainly have n't have time to reach the dear Old Briar-patch .
Jimmy look this way and that way , but there be no sign of Peter Rabbit .
`` Huh ! ''
say he again , turn his back on Reddy Fox and walk away with a great deal of dignity .
V REDDY FOX SNEAKS AWAY To sneak away be to steal away try to keep out of sight of everybody , and be usually do only by those who for some reason or other be ashamed to be see .
Just as soon a Reddy Fox could see after Jimmy Skunk have throw that terrible perfume in Reddy 's face he start for the Green Forest .
He want to get away by himself .
But he do n't trot with his head up and his big plumey tail carry proudly a be usual with him .
No indeed .
Instead he hang his head , and his handsome tail be drop between his leg ; he be the very picture of shame .
You see that terrible perfume which Jimmy Skunk have throw at him cling to his red coat and he know that he could n't get rid of it , not for a long time anyway .
And he know , too , that wherever he go his neighbor would hold their nose and make fun of him , and that no one would have anything to do with him .
So he sneak away across the Green Meadows towards the Green Forest and he felt too sick and mean and unhappy to even be angry with Sammy Jay , who be make fun of him and say that he have get no more than he deserve .
Poor Reddy !
He do n't know what to do or where to go .
He could n't go home , for old Granny Fox would drive him out of the house .
She have warn him time and again never to provoke Jimmy Skunk , and he know that she never would forgive him if he should bring that terrible perfume near their home .
He know , too , that it would not be long before all the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows would know what have happen to him .
Sammy Jay would see to that .
He know just how they would point at him and make fun of him .
He would never hear the last of it .
He felt a if he never , never would be able to hold his head and his tail up again .
Every few minute he stop to roll over and over on the ground try to get rid of that dreadful perfume .
When he reach the Green Forest he hurry over to the Laughing Brook to wash out his eye .
It be just his luck to have Billy Mink come along while he be do this .
Billy do n't need to be tell what have happen .
`` Phew ! ''
he exclaim , hold on to his nose .
Then he turn and hurry beyond the reach of that perfume .
There he stop and make fun of Reddy Fox and say all the provoking thing he could think of .
Reddy take no notice at all .
He felt too miserable to quarrel .
After he have wash his face he felt well .
Water would n't take away the awful smell , but it do take away the smart from his eye .
Then he try to plan what to do next .
`` The only thing I can do be to get a far away from everybody a I can , '' think he .
`` I guess I 'll have to go up to the Old Pasture to live for a while . ''
So he start for the Old Pasture , keep as much out of sight a possible .
On the way he remember that Old Man Coyote live there .
Of course it would never do to go near Old Man Coyote 's home for if he smell that awful perfume and discover that he , Reddy , be the cause of it he would certainly drive him out of the Old Pasture and then where could he go ?
So Reddy go to the lonely part of the Old Pasture and creep into an old house that he and Granny have dug there long ago when they have be force to live in the Old Pasture in the day when Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound have hunt them for steal chicken .
There he stretch himself out and be perfectly miserable .
`` It would n't be so bad if I have really be to blame , but I be n't .
I do n't know Jimmy Skunk be in that barrel and I do n't mean to start it roll down the hill anyway , '' he mutter .
`` It be all an accident and -- '' He stop and into his yellow eye creep a look of suspicion .
`` I wonder , '' say he slowly , `` if Peter Rabbit know that Jimmy Skunk be there and plan to get me into all this trouble .
I wonder . ''
VI PETER RABBIT DOES N'T ENJOY HIS JOKE All the time that Jimmy Skunk be punish Reddy Fox for roll him down hill in a barrel , and while Reddy be sneak away to the Green Forest to get out of sight , Peter Rabbit be lie low in the old house of Johnny Chuck , right near the place where Jimmy Skunk 's wild ride have come to an end .
It have be a great relief to Peter when he have see Jimmy Skunk get to his foot , and he know that Jimmy have n't be hurt in that wild ride .
Lying flat in the doorway of Johnny Chuck 's old house , Peter could see all that go on without be see himself , and he could hear all that be say .
He chuckle a he saw Reddy Fox come up and his eye be pop right out with excitement a he wait for what would happen next .
He felt sure that Reddy Fox be in for something unpleasant , and he be glad .
Of course , that be n't a bit nice of Peter .
Right down in his heart Peter know it , but he have be chase so often by Reddy and give so many dreadful fright , that he felt now that he be get even .
So he chuckle a he wait for what be to happen .
Suddenly that chuckle break right off in the middle , and Peter cry `` Ouch ! ''
He have felt a pain a if a hot needle have be thrust into him .
It make him almost jump out of the doorway .
But he remember in time that it would never , never do for him to show himself outside , for right away Reddy Fox and Jimmy Skunk would suspect that he have have something to do with that wild ride of Jimmy 's in the barrel .
So it would not do to show himself now .
No , indeed !
All he could do be to kick and squirm and twist his head around to see what be happen .
It do n't take long to find out .
Even a he look , he felt another sharp pain which bring another `` Ouch ! ''
from him and make him kick hard than ever .
Two very angry little insect be just get ready to sting him again , and more be come .
They be Yellow Jackets , which you know belong to the wasp family and carry very sharp little lance in their tail .
The fact be , this old house of Johnny Chuck 's have be desert so long the Yellow Jackets have decide that a no one else be use it , they would , and they have begin to build their home just inside the hall .
Poor Peter !
What could he do ?
He do n't dare go out , and he simply could n't stay where he be .
Whatever he do must be do quickly , for it look to him a if a regular army of Yellow Jackets be come , and those little lance they carry be about the most painful thing he know of .
By this time he have lose all interest in what be go on outside .
There be quite enough go on inside ; too much , in fact .
He remember that Johnny Chuck dig his house deep down in the ground .
He look down the long hall .
It be dark down there .
Perhaps if he go down there , these angry little warrior would n't follow him .
It be worth try , anyway .
So Peter scramble to his foot and scurry down the long hall , and a he run , he cry `` Ouch !
Ouch !
Oh !
Ohoo ! ''
Those sharp little lance be very busy , and there be no way of fight back .
At the end of the long hall be a snug little room , very dark but cool and comfortable .
It be just a he have hop ; the Yellow Jackets do not follow him down there .
They have drive him away from their home , which be right near the entrance , and they be satisfy .
But what a fix he be in !
What a dreadful fix !
He ache and smart all over .
My goodness , how he do smart !
And to get out he would have to go right past the Yellow Jacket home again .
`` Oh , dear , I wish I have never think of such a joke , '' moan Peter , try in vain to find a comfortable position .
`` I guess I be serve just right . ''
I rather think he be , do n't you ?
VII SAMMY JAY DOES SOME GUESSING Sammy Jay be a queer fellow .
Although he be a scamp and dearly love to make trouble for his neighbor , he be always ready to take their part when others make trouble for them .
Many be the time he have give them warn of danger .
This be one reason they be quite willing to overlook his own shortcoming .
So , though in many way he be no good than Reddy Fox , he dearly love to upset Reddy 's plan and be very apt to rejoice when Reddy get into trouble .
Of course , be right there , he saw all that happen when Reddy run against the old barrel at the top of the hill and send it roll .
He have be quite as much surprise a Reddy to find that there be some one inside , and he have follow Reddy to see who it be .
So , of course , he have see what happen to Reddy .
Now , instead of be sorry for Reddy , he have openly rejoice .
It seem to be just that way with a great many people .
They like to see others who be consider very smart get into trouble .
So Sammy have laugh and make fun of poor Reddy .
In the first place it be very exciting , and Sammy dearly love excitement .
And then it would make such a splendid story to tell , and no one like to carry tale more than do Sammy Jay .
He watch Reddy sneak away to the Green Forest , and Jimmy Skunk slowly walk away in a very dignified manner .
Then Sammy fly back to the Old Orchard to spread the news among the little people there .
It be n't until he reach the Old Orchard that he remember Peter Rabbit .
Instead of fly about tell every one what have happen to Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox , he find a comfortable perch in an old apple-tree and be strangely silent .
The fact be , Sammy Jay be do some hard thinking .
He have suddenly begin to wonder .
It have pop into that shrewd little head of his that it be very strange how suddenly Peter Rabbit have disappear .
`` Of course , '' think Sammy , `` Jimmy Skunk be sure that Reddy roll that barrel down hill purposely , and I do n't wonder that he do think so .
But I saw it all , and I know that it be all an accident so far a Reddy be concern .
I do n't know that Jimmy be in that barrel , and Reddy could n't have know it , because he do n't come up here until after I do .
But Peter Rabbit may have know .
Why do Peter run so that he would have to jump over that barrel when he could have run right past it ?
`` Of course , he may have think that if he could make Reddy run right slam bang against that barrel it would stop Reddy long enough to give him a chance to get away .
That would have be pretty smart of Peter and quite like him .
But somehow I have a feeling that he know all the time that Jimmy Skunk be take a nap inside and that something be bind to happen if he be disturb .
The more I think of it , the more I believe that Peter do know and that he plan the whole thing .
If he do , it be one of the smart trick I ever heard of .
I do n't think Peter have it in him .
It be rather hard on Jimmy Skunk , but it get rid of Reddy Fox for a while .
He wo n't dare show his face around here for a long time .
That mean that Peter will have one less worry on his mind .
Hello !
Here come Jimmy Skunk .
I 'll ask him a few question . ''
Jimmy come amble along in his usual lazy manner .
He have quite recover his good nature .
He felt that he be more than even with Reddy Fox , and a he be none the worse for his wild ride in the barrel , he have quite forget that he have lose his temper .
`` Hello , Jimmy .
Have you see Peter Rabbit this morning ? ''
cry Sammy Jay .
Jimmy look up and grin .
`` Yes , '' say he .
`` I saw him up here early this morning .
Why ? ''
`` Did he see you go into that old barrel ? ''
persist Sammy .
`` I do n't know , '' confess Jimmy .
`` He may have .
What have you get on your mind , Sammy Jay ? ''
`` Nothing much , only Reddy Fox be chase him when he run against that barrel and sent you roll down the hill , '' reply Sammy .
Jimmy prick up his ear .
`` Then Reddy do n't do it purposely ! ''
he exclaim .
`` No , '' reply Sammy .
`` He do n't do it purposely .
I be quite sure that he do n't know you be in it .
But how about Peter Rabbit ?
I be wonder .
And I 'm do a little guessing , too . ''
VIII JIMMY SKUNK LOOKS FOR PETER Jimmy Skunk look very hard at Sammy Jay .
Sammy Jay look very hard at Jimmy Skunk .
Then Sammy slowly shut one eye and a slowly open it again .
It be a wink .
`` You mean , '' say Jimmy Skunk , `` that you guess that Peter Rabbit know that I be in that barrel , and that he jump over it so a to make Reddy Fox run against it .
Is that it ? ''
Sammy Jay say nothing , but wink again .
Jimmy grin .
Then he look thoughtful .
`` I wonder , '' say he slowly , `` if Peter do it so a to gain time to get away from Reddy Fox . ''
`` I wonder , '' say Sammy Jay .
`` And I wonder if he do it just to get Reddy into trouble , '' continue Jimmy .
`` I wonder , '' repeat Sammy Jay .
`` And I wonder if he do it for a joke , a double joke on Reddy and myself , '' Jimmy go on , scratch his head thoughtfully .
`` I wonder , '' say Sammy Jay once more , and burst out laughing .
Now Jimmy Skunk have a very shrewd little head on his shoulder .
`` So that be your guess , be it ?
Well , I would n't be a bit surprised if you be right , '' say he , nod his head .
`` I think I will go look for Peter .
I think he need a lesson .
Jokes that put other people in danger or make them uncomfortable can have no excuse .
My neck might have be break in that wild ride down the hill , and certainly I be make most uncomfortable .
I felt a if everything inside me be shake out of place and all mix up .
Even now my stomach feel a bit queer , a if it might not be just where it ought to be .
By the way , what become of Peter after he jump over the barrel ? ''
Sammy shake his head .
`` I do n't know , '' he confess .
`` You see , it be very exciting when that barrel start roll , and we know by the sound that there be some one inside it .
I guess Reddy Fox forget all about Peter .
I know I do .
And when the barrel break to piece against that stone down there , and you and Reddy face each other , it be still more exciting .
After it be over , I look for Peter , but he be nowhere in sight .
He have n't have time to reach the Old Briar-patch .
I really would like to know myself what become of him . ''
Jimmy Skunk turn and look down the hill .
Then in his usual slow way he start back towards the broken barrel .
`` Where be you go ? ''
ask Sammy .
`` To look for Peter Rabbit , '' reply Jimmy .
`` I want to ask him a few question . ''
Jimmy Skunk amble along down the hill .
At first he be very angry a he think of what Peter have do , and he make up his mind that Peter should be teach a lesson he would never forget .
But a he amble along , the funny side of the whole affair strike him , for Jimmy Skunk have a great sense of humor , and before he reach the bottom of the hill his anger have all go and he be chuckle .
`` I 'm sorry if I do Reddy Fox an injustice , '' think he , `` but he make so much trouble for other people that I guess no one else will be sorry .
He be n't likely to bother any one for some time .
Peter really ought to be punish , but somehow I do n't feel so much like punish him a I do .
I 'll just give him a little scare and let the scamp off with that .
Now , I wonder where he can be .
I have an idea he be n't very far away .
Let me see .
Seems to me I remember an old house of Johnny Chuck 's not very far from here .
I 'll have a look in that . ''
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- IX JIMMY VISITS JOHNNY CHUCK 'S OLD HOUSE Jimmy Skunk be smile a he amble towards the old house of Johnny Chuck near the foot of the hill .
There be no one near to see him , and this make him smile still more .
You see , the odor of that perfume which he have throw at Reddy Fox just a little while before be very , very strong there , and Jimmy know that until that have disappear no one would come near the place because it be so unpleasant for every one .
To Jimmy himself it be n't unpleasant at all , and he could n't understand why other people dislike it so .
He have puzzle over that a great deal .
He be glad that it be so , because on account of it every one treat him with respect and take special pain not to quarrel with him .
`` I guess it 's a good thing that Old Mother Nature do n't make u all alike , '' say he to himself .
`` I think there must be something the matter with their nose , and I suppose they think there be something the matter with mine .
But there be n't .
Not a thing .
Hello !
There be Johnny Chuck 's old house just ahead of me .
Now we will see what we shall see . ''
He walk softly a he draw near to the old house .
If Peter be way down inside , it would n't matter how he approach .
But if Peter should happen to be only just inside the doorway , he might take it into his head to run if he should hear footstep , particularly if those footstep be not heavy enough to be those of Reddy or Granny Fox or Old Man Coyote .
Jimmy do n't intend to give Peter a chance to do any such thing .
If Peter once get outside that old house , his long leg would soon put him beyond Jimmy 's reach , and Jimmy know it .
If he be to give Peter the fright that he have make up his mind to give him , he would first have to get him where he could n't run away .
So Jimmy walk as softly a he know how and approach the old house in such a way a to keep out of sight of Peter , should he happen to be lie so a to look out of the doorway .
At last he reach a position where with one jump he could land right on the doorstep .
He wait a few minute and cock his head on one side to listen .
There be n't a sound to tell him whether Peter be there or not .
Then lightly he jump over to the doorstep and look in at the doorway .
There be no Peter to be see .
`` If he be here , he be way down inside , '' think Jimmy .
`` I wonder if he really be here .
I think I 'll look about a bit before I go in . ''
Now the doorstep be of sand , a Johnny Chuck 's doorstep always be .
Almost at once Jimmy chuckle .
There be Peter 's track , and they point straight towards the inside of Johnny Chuck 's old house .
Jimmy look carefully , but not a single track point the other way could he find .
Then he chuckle again .
`` The scamp be here all right , '' he mutter .
`` He hide here and watch all that happen and then decide to lie low and wait until he be sure that the way be clear and no one would see him . ''
In this Jimmy be partly right and partly wrong , a you and I know .
He star down the long dark doorway a minute .
Then he make up his mind .
`` I 'll go down and make Peter a call , and I wo n't bother to knock , '' he chuckle , and poke his head inside the doorway .
But that be as far a Jimmy Skunk go .
Yes , Sir , that be just as far a Jimmy Skunk go .
You see , no sooner do he start to enter that old house of Johnny Chuck 's than he be meet by a lot of those Yellow Jackets , and they be in a very bad temper .
Jimmy Skunk know all about Yellow Jackets and the sharp little lance they carry in their tail ; he have the great respect for them .
He back out in a hurry and actually hurry away to a safe distance .
Then he sit down to think .
After a little he begin to chuckle again .
`` I know what happen , '' say he , talk to himself .
`` Peter Rabbit pop into that doorway .
Those Yellow Jackets just naturally get after him .
He do n't dare come out for fear of Reddy Fox and me , and so he go on down to Jimmy Chuck 's old bedroom , and he 's down there now , wonder how ever he be to get out without get stung .
I reckon I do n't need to scare Peter to pay him for that joke .
I reckon he 's be punished already . ''
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- X PETER RABBIT IS MOST UNCOMFORTABLE If ever any one be sorry for have play prank on other folk , that one be Peter Rabbit .
I be afraid it be n't quite the right kind of sorrow .
You see , he be n't sorry because of what have happen to Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox , but because of what have happen to himself .
There he be , down in the bedroom of Johnny Chuck 's old house , smart and ache all over from the sharp little lance of the Yellow Jackets who have drive him down there before he have have a chance to see what happen to Reddy Fox .
That be bad enough , but what trouble Peter more be the thought that he could n't get out without once again face those hot-tempered Yellow Jackets .
Peter wish with all his might that he have know about their home in Johnny Chuck 's old house before ever he think of hiding there .
But wish of that kind be about the most useless thing in the world .
They would n't help him now .
He have so many ache and smart that he do n't see how he could stand a single one more , and yet he could n't see how he be go to get out without receive several more .
All at once he have a comforting thought .
He remember that Johnny Chuck usually have a back door .
If that be the case here , he would be all right .
He would find out .
Cautiously he poke his head out of the snug bedroom .
There be the long hall down which he have come .
And there -- yes , Sir , there be another hall !
It must be the way to the back door .
Carefully Peter creep up it .
`` Funny , '' think he , `` that I do n't see any light ahead of me . ''
And then he bump his nose .
Yes , Sir , Peter bump his nose against the end of that hall .
You see , it be an old house , and like most old house it be rather a tumble-down affair .
Anyway , the back door have be block with a great stone , and the wall of the back hall have fall in .
There be no way out there .
Sadly Peter back out to the little bedroom .
He would wait until night , and perhaps then the Yellow Jackets would be asleep , and he could steal out the front way without get any more sting .
Meanwhile he would try to get a nap and forget his ache and pain .
Hardly have Peter curl up for that nap when he hear a voice .
It sound a if it come from a long way off , but he know just where it come from .
It come from the doorway of that old house .
He know , too , whose voice it be .
It be Jimmy Skunk 's voice .
`` I know where you be , Peter Rabbit , '' say the voice .
`` And I know why you be hide down there .
I know , too , how it happen that I be roll down hill in that barrel .
I 'm just give you a little warning , Peter .
There be a lot of very angry Yellow Jackets up here , a you will find out if you try to come out before dark .
I 'm go away now , but I 'm go to come back about dark to wait for you .
I may want to play a little joke on you to pay you back for the one you play on me . ''
That put an end to Peter 's hope of a nap .
He shiver a he think of what might happen to him if Jimmy Skunk should catch him .
What with his ache and pain from the sting of the Yellow Jackets , and fear of be catch by Jimmy Skunk , it be quite impossible to sleep .
He be almost ready to face those Yellow Jackets rather than wait and meet Jimmy Skunk .
Twice he start up the long hall , but turn back .
He just could n't stand any more sting .
He be miserable .
Yes , Sir , he be miserable and most uncomfortable in both body and mind .
`` I wish I 'd never think of that joke , '' he half sobbed .
`` I think it be a great joke , but it be n't .
It be a horrid , mean joke .
Why , oh , why do I ever think of it ? ''
Meanwhile Jimmy Skunk have go off , chuckle .
XI JIMMY SKUNK KEEPS HIS WORD Keep your word , whate'er you do , And to your inmost self be true .
When Jimmy Skunk shout down the hall of Johnny Chuck 's old house to Peter Rabbit that he would come back at dark , he be half joking .
He do it to make Peter uneasy and to worry him .
The truth be , Jimmy be no long angry at all .
He have quite recover his good nature and be very much incline to laugh himself over Peter 's trick .
But he felt that it would n't do to let Peter off without some kind of punishment , and so he decide to frighten Peter a little .
He know that Peter would n't dare come out during the daytime because of the Yellow Jackets whose home be just inside the doorway of that old house ; and he know that Peter would n't dare face him , for he would be afraid of be treat a Reddy Fox have be .
So that be why he tell Peter that he be come back at dark .
He felt that if Peter be keep a prisoner in there for a while , all the time worry about how he be to get out , he would be very slow to try such a trick again .
As Jimmy amble away to look for some beetle , he chuckle and chuckle and chuckle .
`` I guess that by this time Peter wish he have n't think of that joke on Reddy Fox and myself , '' say he .
`` Perhaps I 'll go back there tonight and perhaps I wo n't .
He wo n't know whether I do or not , and he wo n't dare come out . ''
Then he stop and scratch his head thoughtfully .
Then he sigh .
Then he scratch his head again and once more sighed .
`` I really do n't want to go back there tonight , '' he mutter , `` but I guess I 'll have to .
I say I would , and so I 'll have to do it .
I believe in keep my word .
If I should n't and some day he should find it out , he would n't believe me the next time I happen to say I would do a thing .
Yes , Sir , I 'll have to go back .
There be nothing like make people believe that when you say a thing you mean it .
There be nothing like keep your word to make people respect you . ''
Being naturally rather lazy , Jimmy decide not to go any farther than the edge of the Old Orchard , which be only a little way above Johnny Chuck 's old house , where Peter be a prisoner .
There Jimmy find a warm , sunny spot and curl up for a nap .
In fact , he spend all the day there .
When jolly , round , red Mr. Sun go to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows come troop across the Green Meadows , Jimmy get up , yawn , chuckle , and then slowly amble down to Johnny Chuck 's old house .
A look at the footprint in the sand on the doorstep tell him that Peter have not come out .
Jimmy sit down and wait until it be quite dark .
Then he poke his head in at the doorway .
The Yellow Jackets have go to bed for the night .
`` Come out , Peter .
I 'm wait for you ! ''
he call down the hall , and make his voice sound as angry a he could .
But inside he be chuckle .
Then Jimmy Skunk calmly turn and go about his business .
He have keep his word .
As for Peter Rabbit , that have be one of the very bad day he could recall .
He have ache and smart from the sting of the Yellow Jackets ; he have worry all day about what would happen to him if he do meet Jimmy Skunk , and he be hungry .
He have have just a little bit of hope , and this be that Jimmy Skunk would n't come back when it grow dark .
He have creep part way up the hall at the first hint of night and stretch himself out to wait until he could be sure that those dreadful Yellow Jackets have go to sleep .
He have just about make up his mind that it be safe for him to scamper out when Jimmy Skunk 's voice come down the hall to him .
Poor Peter !
The sound of that voice almost break his heart .
`` He have come back .
He 's keep his word , '' he half sob a he once more go back to Johnny Chuck 's old bedroom .
There he stay nearly all the rest of the night , though his stomach be so empty it ache .
Just before it be time for Mr. Sun to rise , Peter venture to dash out of Johnny Chuck 's old house .
He get past the home of the Yellow Jackets safely , for they be not yet awake .
With his heart in his mouth , he spring out of the doorway .
Jimmy Skunk be n't there .
With a sigh of relief , Peter start for the dear , safe Old Briar-patch , lipperty-lipperty-lip , a fast a he could go .
`` I 'll never , never play another joke , '' he say , over and over again a he run .
XII JIMMY SKUNK AND UNC ' BILLY POSSUM MEET Jimmy Skunk amble along down the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest .
He do n't hurry .
Jimmy never do hurry .
Hurrying and worry be two thing he leave for his neighbor .
Now and then Jimmy stop to turn over a bit of bark or a stick , hop to find some fat beetle .
But it be plain to see that he have something besides fat beetle on his mind .
Up the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest shuffle Unc ' Billy Possum .
He do n't hurry .
It be too warm to hurry .
Unlike Jimmy Skunk , he do hurry sometimes , do Unc ' Billy , especially when he suspect that Bowser the Hound be about .
And sometimes Unc ' Billy do worry .
You see , there be people who think that Unc ' Billy would make a very good dinner .
Unc ' Billy do n't think he would .
Anyway , he have no desire to have the experiment try .
So occasionally , when he discover one of these people who think he would make a good dinner , he worry a little .
But just now Unc ' Billy be neither hurry nor worrying .
There be no need of do either , and Unc ' Billy never do anything that there be no need of do .
So Unc ' Billy shuffle up the Lone Little Path , and Jimmy Skunk amble down the Lone Little Path , and right at a bend in the Lone Little Path they meet .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- Jimmy Skunk grin .
`` Hello , Unc ' Billy ! ''
say he .
`` Have you see any fat beetle this morning ? ''
Unc ' Billy grin .
`` Good mo ` nin ' , Brer Skunk , '' he reply .
`` Ah ca n't rightly say Ah have .
Ah have it on mah mind to ask yo ' the same thing . ''
Jimmy sit down and look at Unc ' Billy with twinkle eye .
His grin grow broad and become a chuckle .
`` Unc ' Billy , '' say he , `` have you ever in your life comb your hair or brush your coat ? ''
You know Unc ' Billy usually look a if every hair be try to point in a different direction from every other hair , while Jimmy Skunk always appear as neat a if he spend half his time brushing and smooth his handsome black and white coat .
Unc ' Billy 's eye twinkle .
`` Ah reckons Ah do such a thing once or twice when Ah be very small , Brer Skunk , '' say he , without a trace of a smile .
`` But it seem to me a powerful waste of time .
Ah have mo ' important thing to worry about .
By the way , Brer Skunk , do yo ' ever run away from anybody in all your life ? ''
Jimmy look surprise at the question .
He scratch his head thoughtfully .
`` Not that I remember of , '' say he after a little .
`` Most folk run away from me , '' he add with a little throaty chuckle .
`` Those who do n't run away always be polite and step aside .
It may be that when I be a very little fellow and do n't know much about the Great World and the people who live in it , I might have run away from some one , but if I do , I ca n't remember it .
Why do you ask , Unc ' Billy ? ''
`` Oh , no reason in particular , Brer Skunk .
No reason in particular .
Only Ah wonder sometimes if yo ' ever realize how lucky yo ' be .
If Ah never have to worry about mah hungry neighbor , Ah reckons perhaps Ah might brush mah coat oftener . ''
Unc ' Billy 's eye twinkle more than ever .
`` Worry , '' reply Jimmy Skunk sagely , `` be the result of be unprepared .
Anybody who be prepare have no occasion to worry .
Just think it over , Unc ' Billy . ''
It be Unc ' Billy 's turn to scratch his head thoughtfully .
`` Ah fear Ah do n't quite get your meaning , Brer Skunk , '' say he .
`` Sit down , Unc ' Billy , and I 'll explain , '' reply Jimmy .
XIII JIMMY SKUNK EXPLAINS You 'll find this true where'er you go That those prepared few trouble know .
`` To begin with , I be not such a very big fellow , be I ? ''
say Jimmy .
`` Ah reckons Ah know a right smart lot of folk big than yo ' , Brer Skunk , '' reply Unc ' Billy , with a grin .
You know Jimmy Skunk really be a little fellow compare with some of his neighbor .
`` And I have n't very long claw or very big teeth , have I ? ''
continued Jimmy .
`` Ah reckons mine be about a long and about as big , '' return Unc ' Billy , look more puzzled than ever .
`` But you never see anybody bother me , do you ? ''
go on Jimmy .
`` No , '' reply Unc ' Billy .
`` And it 's the same way with Prickly Porky the Porcupine .
You never see anybody bother him or offer to do him any harm , do you ? ''
persist Jimmy .
`` No , '' reply Unc ' Billy once more .
`` Why ? ''
demand Jimmy .
Unc ' Billy grin broadly .
`` Ah reckons , Brer Skunk , '' say he , `` that there be n't anybody want to go fo ' to meddle with yo ' and Brer Porky .
Ah reckons most folk know what would happen if they do , and that yo ' and Brer Porky be folks it 's a sight mo ' comfortable to leave alone .
Leastways , Ah do .
Ah ai n't aim fo ' trouble with either of yo ' .
That li'l bag of scent yo ' carry be cert ` nly most powerful , Brer Skunk , and Ah be n't hanker to brush against those little spear Brer Porky be so free with .
Ah know when Ah 's well off , and Ah reckons most folk feel the same way . ''
Jimmy Skunk chuckle .
`` One more question , Unc ' Billy , '' say he .
`` Did you ever know me to pick a quarrel and use that bag of scent without be attack ? ''
Unc ' Billy consider for a few minute .
`` Ah ca n't say Ah ever do , '' he reply .
`` And you never know Prickly Porky to go hunt trouble either , '' declare Jimmy .
`` We do n't either of u go hunt trouble , and trouble never come hunt u , and the reason be that we both be always prepare for trouble and everybody know it .
Buster Bear could squash me by just step on me , but he do n't try it .
You notice he always be very polite when we meet .
Prickly Porky and I be arm for defence , but we never use our weapon for offence .
Nobody bother u , and we bother nobody .
That 's the beauty of be prepare . ''
Unc ' Billy think it over for a few minute .
Then he sigh and sigh again .
`` Ah reckons yo ' and Brer Porky be about the lucky people Ah know , '' say he .
`` Yes , Sah , Ah reckons yo ' be just that .
Ah do n't fear anybody mah own size , but Ah cert ` nly do have some mighty scary time when Ah meet some people Ah might mention .
Ah wish Ol ' Mother Nature have do go and give me something fo ' to make people a scary of me a they be of yo ' .
Ah cert ` nly believe in preparedness after seein ' yo ' , Brer Skunk .
Ah cert ` nly do just that very thing .
Have yo ' find any nice fresh aiggs lately ? ''
XIV A LITTLE SOMETHING ABOUT EGGS `` An egg , '' say Jimmy Skunk , `` be good ; It 's very good indeed to eat . ''
`` An egg , '' say Mrs. Grouse , `` be dear ; ` Twill hatch into a baby sweet . ''
So in the matter of egg , a in a great many other matter , it all depend on the point of view .
To Jimmy Skunk and Unc ' Billy Possum egg be look on from the viewpoint of something to eat .
Their stomach prompt them to think of egg .
Eggs be good to fill empty stomach .
The mere thought of egg will make Jimmy and Unc ' Billy smack their lip .
They say they `` love '' egg , but they do n't .
They `` like '' them , which be quite different .
But Mrs. Grouse and most of the other feathered people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows and the Old Orchard really do `` love '' egg .
It be the heart instead of the stomach that respond to the thought of egg .
To them egg be almost as precious a baby , because they know that some day , some day very soon , those egg will become baby .
There be a few feathered folk , I be sorry to say , who `` love '' their own egg , but `` like '' the egg of other people -- like them just a Jimmy Skunk and Unc ' Billy Possum do , to eat .
Blacky the Crow be one and his cousin , Sammy Jay , be another .
So in the springtime there be always a great deal of matching of wit between the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows and the Old Orchard .
Those who have egg try to keep them a secret or to build the nest that hold them where none who like to eat them can get them ; and those who have an appetite for egg try to find them .
When Unc ' Billy Possum suddenly change the subject by ask Jimmy Skunk if he have find any nice fresh egg lately , he touch a subject very close to Jimmy 's heart .
I should have say , rather , his stomach .
To tell the truth , it be a longing for some egg that have bring Jimmy to the Green Forest .
He know that somewhere there Mrs. Grouse must be hide a nestful of the very nice of egg , and it be to hunt for these that he have come .
`` No , '' reply Jimmy , `` I have n't have any luck at all this spring .
I 've almost forget what an egg taste like .
Either I 'm grow dull and stupid , or some folk be smart than they use to be .
By the way , have you see Mrs. Grouse lately ? ''
Jimmy look very innocent a he ask this .
Unc ' Billy chuckle until his side shake .
`` Do yo ' suppose Ah 'd tell yo ' if Ah have ? ''
he demand .
`` Ah reckons Mrs. Grouse have n't get any mo ' aiggs than Ah could comfortably take care of mahself , not to mention Mrs. Possum . ''
Here Unc ' Billy look back over his shoulder to make sure that old Mrs. Possum be n't within hearing , and Jimmy Skunk chuckle .
`` Seems to me , Brer Skunk , yo ' might well do your aigg hunt on the Green Meadows and leave the Green Forest to me , '' continue Unc ' Billy .
`` That would be no mo ' than fair .
Yo ' know Ah never do hanker fo ' to get far away from tree , but yo ' do n't mind .
Besides there be mo ' aiggs for yo ' to find on the Green Meadows than there be fo ' me to find in the Green Forest .
A right smart lot of bird make their nest on the ground there .
There be Brer Bob White and Brer Meadowlark and Brer Bobolink and Brer Field Sparrow and Brer -- '' `` Never mind any more , Unc ' Billy , '' interrupt Jimmy Skunk .
`` I know all about them .
That be , I know all about them I want to know , except where their egg be .
Did n't I just tell you I have n't have any luck at all ?
That 's why I 'm over here . ''
`` Well , yo ' wo n't have any mo ' luck here unless yo ' be a right smart lot sharp than your Unc ' Billy , and when it come to hunt aiggs , Ah do n't take mah hat off to anybody , not even to yo ' , Brer Skunk , '' reply Unc ' Billy .
XV A SECOND MEETING Jimmy Skunk could n't think of anything but egg .
The more he think of them , the more he want some .
After part from Unc ' Billy Possum in the Green Forest he go back to the Green Meadows and prowl about , hunt for the nest of his feathered neighbor who build on the ground , and have no more luck than he have have before .
Unc ' Billy Possum be fare about the same way .
He could n't , for the life of him , stop think about those egg that belong to Mrs. Grouse .
The more he try to forget about them , the more he think about them .
`` Ah feel it in mah bone that there be n't the least bit of use in huntin ' fo ' them , '' say he to himself , a he watch Jimmy Skunk amble out of sight up the Lone Little Path .
`` No , Sah , there be n't the least bit of use .
Ah do look every place Ah can think of already .
Still , Ah have n't get anything else special on mah mind , and those aiggs cert ` nly would taste good .
Ah reckons it must be Ah need those aiggs , or Ah would n't have them on mah mind so much .
Ah find it rather painful to carry aiggs on mah mind all the time , but Ah would enjoy carry them in mah stomach .
Ah cert ` nly would . ''
Unc ' Billy grin and start to ramble about aimlessly , hop that chance would lead him to the nest of Mrs. Grouse .
Do what he would , Unc ' Billy could n't get the thought of egg off his mind , and the more he think about them the more he want some .
And that lead him to think of Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
He have long ago resolve never again to go there , but the longing for a taste of egg be too much for his good resolution , and as soon a jolly , round , red Mr. Sun sink to rest behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows come creep across the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , Unc ' Billy slip away , take pain that old Mrs. Possum should n't suspect where he be go .
Out from the Green Forest , keep among the Black Shadows along by the old stone wall on the edge of the Old Orchard , he steal , and so at last he reach Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
He stop to listen .
There be no sign of Bowser the Hound , and Unc ' Billy sigh gently .
It be a sigh of relief .
Then he creep around a corner of the henhouse towards a certain hole under it he remember well .
Just a he reach it , he saw something white .
It move .
It be come towards him from the other end of the henhouse .
Unc ' Billy stop right where he be .
He be undecided whether to run or stay .
Then he hear a little grunt and decide to stay .
He even grin .
A few second later up come Jimmy Skunk .
It be a white stripe on Jimmy 's coat that Unc ' Billy have see .
Jimmy give a little snort of surprise when he almost bump into Unc ' Billy .
`` What be you do here ? ''
he demand .
`` Just take a li'l walk fo ' the good of mah appetite , '' reply Unc ' Billy , grin more broadly than ever .
`` What be yo ' do here , Brer Skunk ? ''
`` The same thing , '' reply Jimmy .
Then he chuckle .
`` This be an unexpected meeting .
I guess you must have have the same thing on your mind all day that I have , '' he add .
`` Ah reckon so , '' reply Unc ' Billy , and both grin .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- XVI A MATTER OF POLITENESS It cost not much to be polite And , furthermore , it 's always right .
Unc ' Billy Possum and Jimmy Skunk , face each other among the Black Shadows close by a hole that lead under Farmer Brown 's henhouse , chuckle a each thought of what have bring the other there .
It be queer how a like thought often bring people together .
Unc ' Billy have the same longing in his stomach that Jimmy Skunk have , and Jimmy Skunk have the same thing on his mind that Unc ' Billy have .
More than this , it be the second time that day that they have meet .
They have meet in the morning in the Green Forest and now they have meet again among the Black Shadows of the evening at Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
And it be all on account of egg .
Yes , Sir , it be all on account of egg .
`` Are you just come out , or be you just go in ? ''
Jimmy inquire politely .
`` Ah be just go in , but Ah 'll follow yo ' , Brer Skunk , '' reply Unc ' Billy just a politely .
`` Nothing of the kind , '' return Jimmy .
`` I would n't for a minute think of go before you .
I hope I know my manner well than that . ''
`` Yo ' cert ` nly be most polite , Brer Skunk .
Yo ' cert ` nly be most polite .
Yo ' be a credit to your bring up , but politeness always do run in your family .
There be a say that han ` some be a han ` some do , and your politeness be as fine a yo ' be han ` some , Brer Skunk .
Ah 'll just step one side and let yo ' go first just to show that Ah sho ` ly do appreciate your friendship , '' say Unc ' Billy .
Jimmy Skunk chuckle .
`` I guess you 've forget that other old saying , ` Age before beauty , ' Unc ' Billy , '' say he .
`` So you go first .
You know you be old than I. I could n't think of be so impolite a to go first .
I really could n't think of such a thing . ''
And so they argue and argue , each insisting in the most polite way that the other should go first .
If the truth be know , neither of them be insist out of politeness at all .
No , Sir , politeness have nothing to do with it Jimmy Skunk want Unc ' Billy to go first because Jimmy believe in safety first , and it have pop into Jimmy 's head that there might , there just might , happen to be a trap inside that hole .
If there be , he much prefer that Unc ' Billy should be the one to find it out .
Yes , Sir , that be why Jimmy Skunk be so very polite .
Unc ' Billy want Jimmy to go first because he always feel safer behind Jimmy than in front of him .
He have great respect for that little bag of scent that Jimmy carry , and he know that when Jimmy make use of it , he always throw it in front and never behind him .
Jimmy seldom use it , but sometimes he do if he happen to be startle and think danger near .
So Unc ' Billy prefer that Jimmy should go first .
It be n't politeness at all on the part of Unc ' Billy .
In both case it be a kind of selfishness .
Each be think of self .
How long they would have continue to argue and try to appear polite if something have n't happen , nobody know .
But something do happen .
There be a sudden loud sniff just around the corner of the henhouse .
It be from Bowser the Hound .
Right then and there Unc ' Billy Possum and Jimmy Skunk forget all about politeness , and both try to get through that hole at the same time .
They could n't , because it be n't big enough , but , they try hard .
Bowser sniffed again , and this time Unc ' Billy manage to squeeze Jimmy aside and slip through .
Jimmy be right at his heel .
XVII JIMMY SKUNK GETS A BUMP Hardly have Jimmy Skunk enter the hole under Farmer Brown 's henhouse , follow close on the heel of Unc ' Billy Possum , than along come Bowser the Hound , sniff and sniff in a way that make Unc ' Billy nervous .
When Bowser reach that hole , of course he smell the track of Unc ' Billy and Jimmy , and right away he become excited .
He begin to dig .
Goodness , how he do make the dirt fly !
All the time he whine with eagerness .
Unc ' Billy waste no time in squeeze through a hole in the floor way over in one corner , a hole that Farmer Brown 's boy have intend to nail a board over long before .
Unc ' Billy know that Bowser could n't get through that , even if he do manage to dig his way under the henhouse .
Once through that and fairly in the henhouse , Unc ' Billy draw a long breath .
He felt safe for the time be , anyway , and he do n't propose to worry over the future .
Jimmy Skunk hurry after Unc ' Billy .
It be n't fear that cause Jimmy to hurry .
No , indeed , it be n't fear .
He have be startle by the unexpectedness of Bowser 's appearance .
It be this that have cause him to struggle to be first through that hole under the henhouse .
But once through , he have felt a bit ashamed that he have be so undignified .
He be n't afraid of Bowser .
He be sorely tempt to turn around and send Bowser about his business , a he know he very well could .
But he think good of it .
Besides , Unc ' Billy be already through that hole in the floor , and Jimmy do n't for a minute forget what have bring him there .
He have come for egg , and so have Unc ' Billy .
It would never do to let Unc ' Billy be alone up there for long .
So Jimmy Skunk do what he very seldom do -- hurry .
Yes , Sir , he hurry after Unc ' Billy Possum .
He mean to make sure of his share of the egg he be certain be up there .
There be a row of nest box along one side close to the floor .
Above these be another row and above these a third row .
Jimmy do n't climb , but Unc ' Billy be a famous climber .
`` I 'll take these low nest , '' say Jimmy , and lift his tail in a way that make Unc ' Billy nervous .
`` All right , '' reply Unc ' Billy promptly .
`` All right , Brer Skunk .
It 's just a yo ' say . ''
With this , Unc ' Billy scramble up to the next row of nest .
Jimmy grin and start to look in the low nest .
He take his time about it , for that be Jimmy 's way .
There be nothing in the first one and nothing in the second one and nothing in the third one .
This be disappointing , to say the least , and Jimmy begin to move a little faster .
Meanwhile Unc ' Billy have hurry from one nest to another in the second row with no good success .
By the time Jimmy be half-way along his row Unc ' Billy bad begin on the upper row , and the only egg he have find be hard china nest-eggs put there by Farmer Brown 's boy to tempt the hen to lay in those particular nest .
Disappointment be make Unc ' Billy lose his temper .
Each time he peep in a nest and saw one of those china egg , he hop it be a real egg , and each time when he find it be n't he grow angrier .
At last he so lose his temper that when he find another of those egg he angrily kick it out of the nest .
Now it happen that Jimmy Skunk be just underneath .
Down fell that hard china egg squarely on Jimmy Skunk 's head .
For just a minute Jimmy saw star .
At least , he think he do .
Then he saw the egg , and know that Unc ' Billy have knock it down , and that it be this that have hit him .
Jimmy be sore at heart because he have find no eggs , and now he have a bump on the head that also be sore .
Jimmy Skunk lose his temper , a thing he rarely do .
XVIII A SAD , SAD QUARREL Jimmy Skunk sit on the floor of Farmer Brown 's henhouse , rub his head and glare up at the upper row of nest with eye red with anger .
Of course it be dark in the henhouse , for it be night , but Jimmy can see in the dark , just a so many other little people who wear fur can .
What he saw be the anxious look face of Unc ' Billy Possum star down at him .
`` You do that purposely ! ''
snap Jimmy .
`` You do that purposely , and you need n't tell me you do n't . ''
`` On mah honor Ah do n't , '' protest Unc ' Billy .
`` It be an accident , just a sho ' ` nuff accident , and Ah 'm right sorry fo ' it . ''
`` That sound very nice , but I do n't believe a word of it .
You do it purposely , and you ca n't make me believe anything else .
Come down here and fight .
I dare you to ! ''
Jimmy be get more and more angry every minute .
Unc ' Billy begin to grow angry .
Of course , it be wholly his fault that that egg have fall , but it be n't his fault that Jimmy have happen to be just beneath .
He have n't know that Jimmy be there .
He have apologize , and he felt that no one could do more than that .
Jimmy Skunk have doubt his word , have refuse to believe him , and that make him angry .
His little eye glow with rage .
`` If yo ' want to fight , come up here .
I 'll wait fo ' yo ' right where Ah be , '' he sputter .
This make Jimmy angrier than ever .
He could n't climb up there , and he know that Unc ' Billy know it .
Unc ' Billy be perfectly safe in promise to wait for him .
`` You 're a coward , just a plain no-account coward ! ''
snap Jimmy .
`` I 'm not go to climb up there , but I 'll tell you what I be go to do ; I 'm go to wait right down here until you come down , if it be n't until next year .
Nobody can drop thing on my head and not get pay back .
I think you be a friend , but now I know well . ''
`` Wait as long a yo ' please .
Ah reckons Ah can stay as long a yo ' can , '' retort Unc ' Billy , grind and snap his teeth .
`` Suit yourself , '' retort Jimmy .
`` I 'm go to pay you up for that bump on my head or know the reason why . ''
And so they keep on quarrel and call each other name , for the time be quite forget that they be where they have no business to be , either of them .
It really be dreadful .
And it be all because both have be sadly disappointed .
They have find no egg where they have be sure they would find plenty .
You see , Farmer Brown 's boy have gather every egg when he shut the biddy up for the night .
Did you ever notice what a bad thing for the temper disappointment often be ?
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- XIX JIMMY SKUNK IS TRUE TO HIS WORD Unc ' Billy Possum be have a bad night of it .
When he have grow tire of quarrel with Jimmy Skunk , he have try to take a nap .
He have try first one nest and then another , but none just suit him .
This be partly because he be n't sleepy .
He be hungry and not at all sleepy .
He wish with all his heart that he have n't foolishly yield to that fit of temper which have result in kick that china nest-egg out of a nest and down on the head of Jimmy Skunk , make Jimmy so thoroughly angry .
Unc ' Billy have no intention of go down while Jimmy be there .
He think that Jimmy would soon grow tired of wait and go away .
So for quite awhile Unc ' Billy do n't worry .
But a it begin to get towards morning he begin to grow anxious .
Unc ' Billy have no desire to be find in that henhouse when Farmer Brown 's boy come to fee the biddy .
Then , too , he be hungry .
He have count on a good meal of egg , and not one have he find .
Now he want to get out to look for something else to eat , but he could n't without face Jimmy Skunk , and it be well to go hungry than to do that .
Yes , Sir , it be a great deal well to go hungry .
Several time , when he think Jimmy be asleep , he try to steal down .
He be just as careful not to make a sound a he could be , but every time Jimmy know and be wait for him .
Unc ' Billy wish that there be no such place a Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
He wish he have never think of egg .
He wish many other foolish wish , but most of all he wish that he have n't lose his temper and kick that egg down on Jimmy Skunk 's head .
When the first light stole in under the door and the biddy begin to stir uneasily on their roost Unc ' Billy 's anxiety would allow him to keep still no longer .
`` Don ' yo ' think we-uns well make up and get out of here , Brer Skunk ? ''
he venture .
`` I do n't mind stay here ; it 's very comfortable , '' reply Jimmy , look up at Unc ' Billy in a way that make him most uncomfortable .
It be plain to see that Jimmy have n't forgive him .
For some time Unc ' Billy say no more , but he grow more and more restless .
You see , he know it would soon be time for Farmer Brown 's boy to come to let the hen out and fee them .
At last he venture to speak again .
`` Ah reckons yo ' do forget something , '' say he .
`` What be that ? ''
ask Jimmy .
`` Ah reckons yo ' do fo ` get that it 's most time fo ' Farmer Brown 's boy to come , and it wo n't do fo ' we-uns to be find in here , '' reply Unc ' Billy .
`` I 'm not worry about Farmer Brown 's boy .
He can come as soon a he please , '' retort Jimmy Skunk , and grin .
That sound like boasting , but it be n't .
No , Sir , it be n't , and Unc ' Billy know it .
He know that Jimmy mean it .
Unc ' Billy be in despair .
He do n't dare stay , and he do n't dare go down and face Jimmy Skunk , and there he be .
It certainly have be a bad night for Unc ' Billy Possum .
XX FARMER BROWN 'S BOY ARRIVES The light crept far under the door of Farmer Brown 's henhouse , and by this time the hen be all awake .
Furthermore , they have discover Jimmy Skunk down below and be make a great fuss .
They be cackle so that Unc ' Billy be sure Farmer Brown 's boy would soon hear them and hurry out to find out what the noise be all about .
`` If yo ' would just get out of sight , Brer Skunk , Ah reckons those fool hen would keep quiet , '' Unc ' Billy venture .
`` I do n't mind their noise .
It do n't trouble me a bit , '' reply Jimmy Skunk , and grin .
It be plain enough to Unc ' Billy that Jimmy be enjoy the situation .
But Unc ' Billy be n't .
He be so anxious that he could n't keep still .
He pace back and forth along the shelf in front of the upper row of nest and try to make up his mind whether it would be good to go down and face Jimmy Skunk or to try to hide under the hay in one of the nest , and all the time he keep listen and listen and listen for the footstep of Farmer Brown 's boy .
At last he hear them , and he know by the sound that Farmer Brown 's boy be come in a hurry .
He have hear the noise of the hen and be come to find out what it be all about .
Unc ' Billy hop that now Jimmy Skunk would retreat through the hole in the floor and give him a chance to escape .
`` He 's come !
Farmer Brown 's boy be come , Brer Skunk !
Yo ' well get away while yo ' can ! ''
whisper Unc ' Billy .
`` I hear him , '' reply Jimmy calmly .
`` I 'm wait for him to open the door for me to go out .
It will be much easy than squeeze through that hole . ''
Unc ' Billy gasp .
He know , of course , that it be Jimmy Skunk 's boast that he fear no one , but it be hard to believe that Jimmy really intend to face Farmer Brown 's boy right in his own henhouse where Jimmy have no business to be .
He hop that at last Jimmy 's boldness would get him into trouble .
Yes , he do .
You see , that might give him a chance to slip away himself .
Otherwise , he would be in a bad fix .
The latch on the door rattle .
Unc ' Billy creep into one of the nest , but frighten a he be , he could n't keep from peep over the edge to see what would happen .
The door swung open , let in a flood of light .
The hen stop their noise .
Farmer Brown 's boy stand in the doorway and look in .
Jimmy Skunk lift his big plume of a tail just a bit high than usual and calmly and without the least sign of be in a hurry walk straight towards the open door .
Of course Farmer Brown 's boy saw him at once .
`` So it 's you , you black and white rascal ! ''
he exclaim .
`` I suppose you expect me to step out of your way , and I suppose I will do just that very thing .
You be the most impudent and independent fellow of my acquaintance .
That 's what you be .
You do n't get any egg , because I gather all of them last night .
And you do n't get a chicken because they be wise enough to stay on their roost , so I do n't know a I have any quarrel with you , and I 'm sure I do n't want any .
Come along out of there , you rascal . ''
Farmer Brown 's boy step aside , and Jimmy Skunk calmly and without the least sign of hurry or worry walk out , stop for a drink at the pan of water in the henyard , walk through the henyard gate , and turn towards the stone wall along the edge of the Old Orchard .
XXI THE NEST-EGG GIVES UNC ' BILLY AWAY 'T be little thing that often seem Scarce worth a passing thought Which in the end may prove that they With big result be fraught .
Farmer Brown 's boy watch Jimmy Skunk calmly and peacefully go his way and grin a he watch him .
He scratch his head thoughtfully .
`` I suppose , '' say he , `` that that be a perfect an example of the value of preparedness a there be .
Jimmy know he be all ready for trouble if I choose to make it , and that because of that I would n't make it .
So he have calmly go his way a if he be as much big than I a I be big than he .
There certainly be nothing like be prepare if you want to avoid trouble . ''
Then Farmer Brown 's boy once more turned to the henhouse and enter it .
He look to make sure that no hen have be foolish enough to go to sleep where Jimmy could have catch her , and satisfy of this , he would have go about his usual morning work of feed the hen but for one thing .
That one thing be the china nest-egg on the floor .
`` Hello ! ''
exclaim Farmer Brown 's boy when he saw it .
`` Now how do that come there ?
It must be that Jimmy Skunk pull it out of one of those low nest . ''
Now he know just which nest have contain nest-eggs , and it do n't take but a minute to find that none be miss in any of the low nest .
`` That 's queer , '' he mutter .
`` That egg must have come from one of the upper nest .
Jimmy could n't have get up to those .
None of the hen could have kick it out last night , because they be all on the roost when I shut them up .
They certainly do n't do it this morning , because they would n't have dare leave the roost with Jimmy Skunk here .
I 'll have to look into this . ''
So he begin with the second row of nest and look in each .
Then he start on the upper row , and so he come to the nest in which Unc ' Billy Possum be hide under the hay and hold his breath .
Now Unc ' Billy have cover himself up pretty well with the hay , but he have forget one thing ; he have forget his tail .
Yes , Sir , Unc ' Billy have forget his tail , and it hang just over the edge of the nest .
Of course , Farmer Brown 's boy saw it .
He could n't help but see it .
`` Ho , ho ! ''
he exclaim right away .
`` Ho , ho !
So there be more than one visitor here last night .
This henhouse seem to be a very popular place .
I see that the first thing for me to do after breakfast be to nail a board over that hole in the floor .
So it be you , Unc ' Billy Possum , who kick that nest-egg out .
Found it a little hard for your teeth , do n't you ?
Lost your temper and kick it out , do n't you ?
That be foolish , Unc ' Billy , very foolish indeed .
Never lose your temper over trifle .
It do n't pay .
Now I wonder what I 'd better do with you . ''
All this time Unc ' Billy have n't move .
Of course , he could n't understand what Farmer Brown 's boy be say .
Nor could he see what Farmer Brown 's boy be do .
So he hold his breath and hop and hop that he have n't be discover .
And perhaps he would n't have be but for that telltale nest-egg on the floor .
That be the cause of all his trouble .
First it have anger Jimmy Skunk because a you remember , it have fall on Jimmy 's head .
Then it have lead Farmer Brown 's boy to look in all the nest .
It have seem a trifle , kick that egg out of that nest , but see what the result be .
Truly , little thing often be not so little a they seem .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- XXII UNC ' BILLY POSSUM TRIES HIS OLD TRICK The first knowledge Unc ' Billy Possum have that he be discover come to him through his tail .
Yes , Sir , it come to him through his tail .
Farmer Brown 's boy pinch it .
It be rather a mean thing to do , but Farmer Brown 's boy be curious .
He want to see what Unc ' Billy would do .
And he do n't pinch very hard , not hard enough to really hurt .
Farmer Brown 's boy be too good-hearted to hurt any one if he can help it .
Now any other of the Green Forest and Green Meadows people would promptly have pull their tail away have they be in Unc ' Billy 's place .
But Unc ' Billy do n't .
No , Sir , Unc ' Billy do n't .
That tail might have belong to any one but him so far a he make any sign .
Of course , he felt like pull it away .
Any one would have in his place .
But he do n't move it the tiny bit , which go to show that Unc ' Billy have great self-control when he wish .
Farmer Brown 's boy pinch again , just a little harder , but still Unc ' Billy make no sign .
Farmer Brown 's boy chuckle and begin to pull on that tail .
He pull and pull until finally he have pull Unc ' Billy out of his hiding-place , and he swung by his tail from the hand of Farmer Brown 's boy .
There be n't the least sign of life about Unc ' Billy .
He look a if he be dead , and he act a if he be dead .
Any one not know Unc ' Billy would have suppose that he be dead .
Farmer Brown 's boy drop Unc ' Billy on the floor .
He lay just a he fell .
Farmer Brown 's boy roll him over with his foot , but there be n't a sign of life in Unc ' Billy .
He hop that Farmer Brown 's boy really do think him dead .
That be what he want .
Farmer Brown 's boy pick him up again and lay him on a box , first put a board over the hole in the floor and close the henhouse door .
Then he go about his work of clean out the henhouse and measure out the grain for the biddy .
Unc ' Billy lay there on the box , and he certainly be pathetic look .
A dead animal or bird be always pathetic look , and none be ever more so than Unc ' Billy Possum a he lay on that box .
His hair be all rumple up , a it usually be .
It be fill with dust from the floor and bit of straw .
His lip be draw back and his mouth partly open .
His eye seem to be close .
As a matter of fact , they be open just a teeny , weeny bit , just enough for Unc ' Billy to watch Farmer Brown 's boy .
But to have look at him you would have think him as dead a the dead thing that ever be .
As he go about his work Farmer Brown 's boy keep an eye on Unc ' Billy and chuckle .
`` You old fraud , '' say he .
`` You think you be fool me , but I know you .
Possums do n't die of nothing in hen ' nest .
You certainly be a clever old rascal , and the best actor I 've ever see .
I wonder how long you will keep it up .
I wish I have half a much self-control . ''
When he have finish his work he pick Unc ' Billy up by the tail once more , open the door , and start for the house with Unc ' Billy swing from his hand and bumping against his leg .
Still Unc ' Billy give no sign of life .
He wonder where he be be take to .
He be terribly frighten .
But he stick to his old trick of play dead which have serve him so well more than once before .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- XXIII UNC ' BILLY GIVES HIMSELF AWAY Never have Unc ' Billy Possum play that old trick of his good than he be play it now .
Farmer Brown 's boy know that Unc ' Billy be only pretend to be dead , yet so well do Unc ' Billy pretend that it be hard work for Farmer Brown 's boy to believe what he know be the truth -- that Unc ' Billy be very much alive and only wait for a chance to slip away .
They be half-way from the henyard to the house when Bowser the Hound come to meet his master .
`` Now we shall see what we shall see , '' say Farmer Brown 's boy , a Bowser come trot up .
`` If Unc ' Billy can stand this test , I 'll take off my hat to him every time we meet hereafter . ''
He hold Unc ' Billy out to Bowser , and Bowser sniff him all over .
Just imagine that !
Just think of be nose and sniff at by one of whom you be terribly afraid and not so much a twitch an ear !
Farmer Brown 's boy drop Unc ' Billy on the ground , and Bowser roll him over and sniff at him and then look up at his master , as much a to say : `` This fellow do n't interest me .
He 's dead .
He must be the fellow I saw go under the henhouse last night .
How do you kill him ? ''
Farmer Brown 's boy laugh and pick Unc ' Billy up by the tail again .
`` He 's fool you all right , old fellow , and you do n't know it , '' say he to Bowser , a the latter prance on ahead to the house .
The mother of Farmer Brown 's boy be in the doorway , watch them approach .
`` What have you get there ? ''
she demand .
`` I declare if it be n't a Possum !
Where do you kill him ?
Was he the cause of all that racket among the chicken ? ''
Farmer Brown 's boy take Unc ' Billy into the kitchen and drop him on a chair .
Mrs. Brown come over to look at him close .
`` Poor little fellow , '' say she .
`` Poor little fellow .
It be too bad he get into mischief and have to be kill .
I do n't suppose he know any good .
Somehow it always seem wrong to me to kill these little creature just because they get into mischief when all the time they do n't know that they be in mischief . ''
She stroke Unc ' Billy gently .
The eye of Farmer Brown 's boy twinkle .
He go over to a corner and pull a straw from his mother 's broom .
Then he return to Unc ' Billy and begin to tickle Unc ' Billy 's nose .
Mrs. Brown look puzzle .
She be puzzle .
`` What be you do that for ? ''
she ask .
`` Just for fun , '' reply Farmer Brown 's boy and keep on tickle Unc ' Billy 's nose .
Now Unc ' Billy could stand have his tail pinch , and be carry head down , and be drop on the ground , but this be too much for him ; he want to sneeze .
He have get to sneeze .
He do sneeze .
He could n't help it , though it be to cost him his life .
`` Land of love ! ''
exclaim Mrs. Brown , jump back and clutch her skirt in both hand a if she expect Unc ' Billy would try to take refuge behind them .
`` Do you mean to say that that Possum be alive ? ''
`` Seems that way , '' reply Farmer Brown 's boy a Unc ' Billy sneeze again , for that straw be still tickle his nose .
`` I should certainly say it seem that way .
The old sinner be no more dead than I be .
He 's just pretending .
He fool you all right , Mother , but he do n't fool me .
I have n't hurt a hair of him .
You ought to know me well enough by this time to know that I would n't hurt him . ''
He look at his mother reproachfully , and she hasten to apologize .
`` But what could I think ? ''
she demand .
`` If he be n't a dead-looking creature , I never have see one .
What be you go to do with him , son ? ''
`` Take him over to the Green Forest after breakfast and let him go , '' reply Farmer Brown 's boy .
This be just what he do do , and Unc ' Billy waste no time in get home .
It be a long time before he meet Jimmy Skunk again .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Lightfoot_the_Deer.txt.out
CHAPTER I PETER RABBIT MEETS LIGHTFOOT Peter Rabbit be on his way back from the pond of Paddy the Beaver deep in the Green Forest .
He have just see Mr. and Mrs. Quack start toward the Big River for a brief visit before leave on their long , difficult journey to the far-away Southland .
Farewells be always rather sad , and this particular farewell have leave Peter with a lump in his throat , -- a queer , choky feeling .
`` If I be sure that they would return next spring , it would n't be so bad , '' he mutter .
`` It 's those terrible gun .
I know what it be to have to watch out for them .
Farmer Brown 's boy use to hunt me with one of them , but he do n't any more .
But even when he do hunt me it be n't anything like what the Ducks have to go through .
If I keep my eye and ear open , I could tell when a hunter be come and could hide in a hole if I want to .
I never have to worry about my meal .
But with the Ducks it be a thousand time worse .
They 've get to eat while make that long journey , and they can eat only where there be the right kind of food .
Hunters with terrible gun know where those place be and hide there until the Ducks come , and the Ducks have no way of know whether the hunter be wait for them or not .
That be n't hunt .
It 's -- it 's -- '' `` Well , what be it ?
What be you talk to yourself about , Peter Rabbit ? ''
Peter look up with a start to find the soft , beautiful eye of Lightfoot the Deer gaze down at him over the top of a little hemlock tree .
`` It 's awful , '' declare Peter .
`` It 's bad than unfair .
It do n't give them any chance at all . ''
`` I suppose it must be so if you say so , '' reply Lightfoot , `` but you might tell me what all this awfulness be about . ''
Peter grin .
Then he begin at the beginning and tell Lightfoot all about Mr. and Mrs. Quack and the many danger they must face on their long journey to the far-away Southland and back again in the spring , all because of the heartless hunter with terrible gun .
Lightfoot listen and his great soft eye be fill with pity for the Quack family .
`` I hope they will get through all right , '' say he , `` and I hope they will get back in the spring .
It be bad enough to be hunt by men at one time of the year , a no one know good than I do , but to be hunt in the spring as well a in the fall be more than twice a bad .
Men be strange creature .
I do not understand them at all .
None of the people of the Green Forest would think of do such terrible thing .
I suppose it be quite right to hunt others in order to get enough to eat , though I be thankful to say that I never have have to do that , but to hunt others just for the fun of hunting be something I can not understand at all .
And yet that be what men seem to do it for .
I guess the trouble be they never have be hunt themselves and do n't know how it feel .
Sometimes I think I 'll hunt one some day just to teach him a lesson .
What be you laugh at , Peter ? ''
`` At the idea of you hunt a man , '' reply Peter .
`` Your heart be all right , Lightfoot , but you be too timid and gentle to frighten any one .
Big a you be I would n't fear you . ''
With a single swift bound Lightfoot spring out in front of Peter .
He stamp his sharp hoof , lower his handsome head until the sharp point of his antler , which people call horn , point straight at Peter , lift the hair along the back of his neck , and make a motion a if to plunge at him .
His eye , which Peter have always think so soft and gentle , seem to flash fire .
`` Oh ! ''
cry Peter in a faint , frightened-sounding voice and leap to one side before it enter his foolish little head that Lightfoot be just pretend .
Lightfoot chuckle .
`` Did you say I could n't frighten any one ? ''
he demand .
`` I -- I do n't know you could look so terribly fierce , '' stammer Peter .
`` Those antler look really dangerous when you point them that way .
Why -- why -- what be that hang to them ?
It look like bit of old fur .
Have you be tear somebody 's coat , Lightfoot ? ''
Peter 's eye be wide with wonder and suspicion .
CHAPTER II LIGHTFOOT 'S NEW ANTLERS Peter Rabbit be puzzle .
He star at Lightfoot the Deer a wee bit suspiciously .
`` Have you be tear somebody 's coat ? ''
he ask again .
He do n't like to think it of Lightfoot , whom he always have believe quite a gentle , harmless , and timid a himself .
But what else could he think ?
Lightfoot slowly shake his head .
`` No , '' say he , `` I have n't tear anybody 's coat . ''
`` Then what be those rag hang on your antler ? ''
demand Peter .
Lightfoot chuckle .
`` They be what be leave of the covering of my new antler , '' he explain .
`` What 's that ?
What do you mean by new antler ? ''
Peter be sit up very straight , with his eye fix on Lightfoot 's antler a though he never have see them before .
`` Just what I say , '' retort Lightfoot .
`` What do you think of them ?
I think they be the fine antler I 've ever have .
When I get the rest of those rag off , they will be a handsome a set a ever be grow in the Green Forest . ''
Lightfoot rub his antler against the trunk of a tree till some of the rag hang to them drop off .
Peter blink very hard .
He be try to understand and he could n't .
Finally he say so .
`` What kind of a story be you try to fill me up with ? ''
he demand indignantly .
`` Do you mean to tell me that those be not the antler that you have have as long a I 've know you ?
How can anything hard like those antler grow ?
And if those be new one , where be the old one ?
Show me the old one , and perhaps I 'll believe that these be new one .
The idea of try to make me believe that antler grow just like plant !
I 've see Bossy the Cow all summer and I know she have get the same horn she have last summer .
New antler indeed ! ''
`` You be quite right , Peter , quite right about Bossy the Cow .
She never have new horn , but that be n't any reason why I should n't have new antler , be it ? ''
replied Lightfoot patiently .
`` Her horn be quite different from my antler .
I have a new pair every year .
You have n't see me all summer , have you , Peter ? ''
`` No , I do n't remember that I have , '' reply Peter , try very hard to remember when he have last see Lightfoot .
`` I know you have n't , '' retort Lightfoot .
`` I know it because I have be hide in a place you never visit . ''
`` What have you be hide for ? ''
demand Peter .
`` For my new antler to grow , '' reply Lightfoot .
`` When my new antler be grow , I want to be away by myself .
I do n't like to be see without them or with half grown one .
Besides , I be very uncomfortable while the new antler be grow and I want to be alone . ''
Lightfoot speak a if he really mean every word he say , but still Peter could n't , he just could n't believe that those wonderful great antler have grow out of Lightfoot 's head in a single summer .
`` Where do you leave your old one and when do they come off ? ''
he ask , and there be doubt in the very tone of his voice .
`` They drop off last spring , but I do n't remember just where , '' reply Lightfoot .
`` I be too glad to be rid of them to notice where they drop .
You see they be loose and uncomfortable , and I have n't any more use for them because I know that my new one would be big and well .
I 've get one more point on each than I have last year . ''
Lightfoot begin once more to rub his antler against the tree to get off the queer rag hang to them and to polish the point .
Peter watch in silence for a few minute .
Then , all his suspicion return , he say : `` But you have n't tell me anything about those rag hang to your antler . ''
`` And you have n't believe what I have already tell you , '' retort Lightfoot .
`` I do n't like tell thing to people who wo n't believe me . ''
CHAPTER III LIGHTFOOT TELLS HOW HIS ANTLERS GREW It be hard to believe what seem impossible .
And yet what seem impossible to you may be a very commonplace matter to some one else .
So it do not do to say that a thing can not be possible just because you can not understand how it can be .
Peter Rabbit want to believe what Lightfoot the Deer have just tell him , but somehow he could n't .
If he have see those antler grow , it would have be another matter .
But he have n't see Lightfoot since the very last of winter , and then Lightfoot have wear just such handsome antler a he now have .
So Peter really could n't be blame for not be able to believe that those old one have be lose and in their place new one have grow in just the few month of spring and summer .
But Peter do n't blame Lightfoot in the least , because he have tell Peter that he do n't like to tell thing to people who would n't believe what he tell them when Peter have ask him about the rag hang to his antler .
`` I 'm try to believe it , '' he say , quite humbly .
`` It 's all true , '' break in another voice .
Peter jump and turn to find his big cousin , Jumper the Hare .
Unseen and unheard , he have steal up and have overhear what Peter and Lightfoot have say .
`` How do you know it be true ? ''
snap Peter a little crossly , for Jumper have startle him .
`` Because I saw Lightfoot 's old antler after they have fall off , and I often saw Lightfoot while his new one be grow , '' retort Jumper .
`` All right !
I 'll believe anything that Lightfoot tell me if you say it be true , '' declare Peter , who greatly admire his cousin , Jumper .
`` Now tell me about those rag , Lightfoot .
Please do . ''
Lightfoot could n't resist that `` please . ''
`` Those rag be what be leave of a kind of cover which protect the antler while they be grow , a I tell you before , '' say he .
`` Very soon after my old one drop off the new one begin to grow .
They be not hard , not at all like they be now .
They be soft and very tender , and the blood run through them just a it do through our body .
They be cover with a sort of skin with hair on it like thin fur .
The end be not sharply point a they now be , but be big and round , like knob .
They be not like antler at all , and they make my head hot and be very uncomfortable .
That be why I hide away .
They grow very fast , so fast that every day I could see by look at my reflection in water that they be a little long .
It seem to me sometimes a if all my strength go into those new antler .
And I have to be very careful not to hit them against anything .
In the first place it would have hurt , and in the second place it might have spoil the shape of them .
`` When they have grow to the length you now see , they begin to shrink and grow hard .
The knob on the end shrink until they become point .
As soon a they stop grow the blood stop flow up in them , and a they become hard they be no long tender .
The skin which have cover them grow dry and split , and I rub it off on tree and bush .
The little rag you see be what be leave , but I will soon be rid of those .
Then I shall be ready to fight if need be and will fear no one save man , and will fear him only when he have a terrible gun with him . ''
Lightfoot toss his head proudly and rattle his wonderful antler against the near tree .
`` Is n't he handsome , '' whisper Peter to Jumper the Hare ; `` and do you ever hear of anything so wonderful a the growing of those new antler in such a short time ?
It be hard to believe , but I suppose it must be true . ''
`` It be , '' reply Jumper , `` and I tell you , Peter , I would hate to have Lightfoot try those antler on me , even though I be big a a man .
You 've always think of Lightfoot a timid and afraid , but you should see him when he be angry .
Few people care to face him then . ''
CHAPTER IV THE SPIRIT OF FEAR When the day grow cold and the night be clear , There stalk abroad the spirit of fear .
Lightfoot the Deer .
It be sad but true .
Autumn be often call the sad time of the year , and it be the sad time .
But it should n't be .
Old Mother Nature never intend that it should be .
She mean it to be the glad time .
It be the time when all the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows have get over the care and worry of bring up family and teach their child how to look out for themselves .
It be the season when food be plentiful , and every one be fat and be , or ought to be , care free .
It be the season when Old Mother Nature intend all her little people to be happy , to have nothing to worry them for the little time before the come of cold weather and the hard time which cold weather always bring .
But instead of this , a grim , dark figure go stalk over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , and it be call the Spirit of Fear .
It peer into every hiding-place and wherever it find one of the little people it send little cold chill over him , little chill which jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun can not chase away , though he shine his bright .
All night as well a all day the Spirit of Fear search out the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
It will not let them sleep .
It will not let them eat in peace .
It drive them to seek new hiding-places and then drive them out of those .
It keep them ever ready to fly or run at the slight sound .
Peter Rabbit be think of this a he sit at the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch , look over to the Green Forest .
The Green Forest be no longer just green ; it be of many color , for Old Mother Nature have set Jack Frost to paint the leaf of the maple-trees and the beech-trees , and the birch-trees and the poplar-trees and the chestnut-trees , and he have do his work well .
Very , very lovely be the red and yellow and brown against the dark green of the pine and the spruce and the hemlock .
The Purple Hills be more softly purple than at any other season of the year .
It be all very , very beautiful .
But Peter have no thought for the beauty of it all , for the Spirit of Fear have visit even the dear Old Briar-patch , and Peter be afraid .
It be n't fear of Reddy Fox , or Redtail the Hawk , or Hooty the Owl , or Old Man Coyote .
They be forever try to catch him , but they do not strike terror to his heart because he felt quite smart enough to keep out of their clutch .
To be sure , they give him sudden fright sometimes , when they happen to surprise him , but these fright last only until he reach the near bramble-tangle or hollow log where they could not get at him .
But the fear that chill his heart now never leave him even for a moment .
And Peter know that this same fear be clutch at the heart of Bob White , hiding in the brown stubble ; of Mrs. Grouse , squat in the thick bramble-tangle in the Green Forest ; of Uncle Billy Possum and Bobby Coon in their hollow tree ; of Jerry Muskrat in the Smiling Pool ; of Happy Jack Squirrel , hide in the tree top ; of Lightfoot the Deer , lie in the closest thicket he could find .
It be even clutch at the heart of Granny and Reddy Fox and of great , big Buster Bear .
It seem to Peter that no one be so big or so small that this terrible Spirit of Fear have not search him out .
Far in the distance sound a sudden bang .
Peter jump and shiver .
He know that every one else who have hear that bang have jump and shiver just a he have .
It be the season of hunter with terrible gun .
It be man who have send this terrible Spirit of Fear to chill the heart of the little meadow and forest people at this very time when Old Mother Nature have make all thing so beautiful and have intend that they should be happiest and most free from care and worry .
It be man who have make the autumn a sad time instead of a glad time , the very sad time of all the year , when Old Mother Nature have do her best to make it the most beautiful .
`` I do n't understand these men creature , '' say Peter to little Mrs. Peter , a they star fearfully out from the dear Old Briar-patch .
`` They seem to find pleasure , actually find pleasure , in try to kill u .
I do n't understand them at all .
They have n't any heart .
That must be the reason ; they have n't any heart . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` I do n't understand these men creature , '' say Peter to little Mrs. Peter . -RSB-
CHAPTER V SAMMY JAY BRINGS LIGHTFOOT WORD Sammy Jay be one of those who believe in the wisdom of the old saying , `` Early to bed and early to rise . ''
Sammy need no alarm clock to get up early in the morning .
He be awake as soon a it be light enough to see and waste no time wish he could sleep a little long .
His stomach would n't let him if he want to .
Sammy always wake up hungry .
In this he be no different from all his feathered neighbor .
So the minute Sammy get his eye open he make his toilet , for Sammy be very neat , and start out to hunt for his breakfast .
Long ago Sammy discover that there be no safe time of day to visit the dooryard of those two-legged creature call men than very early in the morning .
On this particular morning he have plan to fly over to Farmer Brown 's dooryard , but at the last minute he change his mind .
Instead , he fly over to the dooryard of another farm .
It be so very early in the morning that Sammy do n't expect to find anybody stirring , so you can guess how surprised he be when , just a he come in sight of that dooryard , he saw the door of the house open and a man step out .
Sammy stop on the top of the near tree .
`` Now what be that man do up as early a this ? ''
mutter Sammy .
Then he catch sight of something under the man 's arm .
He do n't have to look twice to know what it be .
It be a gun !
Yes , sir , it be a gun , a terrible gun .
`` Ha ! ''
exclaim Sammy , and quite forget that his stomach be empty .
`` Now who can that fellow be after so early in the morning ?
I wonder if he be go to the dear Old Briar-patch to look for Peter Rabbit , or if he be go to the Old Pasture in search of Reddy Fox , or if it be Mr. and Mrs. Grouse he hop to kill .
I think I 'll sit right here and watch . ''
So Sammy sit in the top of the tree and watch the hunter with the terrible gun .
He saw him head straight for the Green Forest .
`` It 's Mr. and Mrs. Grouse after all , I guess , '' think Sammy .
`` If I know just where they be I 'd go over and warn them . ''
But Sammy do n't know just where they be and he know that it might take him a long time to find them , so he once more begin to think of breakfast and then , right then , another thought pop into his head .
He think of Lightfoot the Deer .
Sammy watch the hunter enter the Green Forest , then he silently follow him .
From the way the hunter move , Sammy decide that he be n't think of Mr. and Mrs. Grouse .
`` It 's Lightfoot the Deer , sure a I live , '' mutter Sammy .
`` He ought to be warn .
He certainly ought to be warn .
I know right where he be .
I believe I 'll warn him myself . ''
Sammy find Lightfoot right where he have expect to .
`` He 's come ! ''
cry Sammy .
`` A hunter with a terrible gun be come ! ''
CHAPTER VI A GAME OF HIDE AND SEEK There be a game of hide and seek that Danny Meadow Mouse once play with Buster Bear .
It be a very dreadful game for Danny .
But hard a it be for Danny , it do n't begin to be as hard a the game Lightfoot the Deer be play with the hunter in the Green Forest .
In the case of Buster Bear and Danny , the latter have simply to keep out of reach of Buster .
As long a Buster do n't get his great paw on Danny , the latter be safe .
Then , too , Danny be a very small person .
He be so small that he can hide under two or three leaf .
Wherever he be , he be pretty sure to find a hiding-place of some sort .
His small size give him advantage in a game of hide and seek .
It certainly do .
But Lightfoot the Deer be big .
He be one of the large of the people who live in the Green Forest .
Being so big , it be not easy to hide .
Moreover , a hunter with a terrible gun do not have to get close in order to kill .
Lightfoot know all this a he wait for the come of the hunter of whom Sammy Jay have warn him .
He have learn many lesson in the hunting season of the year before and he remember every one of them .
He know that to forget even one of them might cost him his life .
So , stand motionless behind a tangle of fall tree , Lightfoot listen and watch .
Presently over in the distance he hear Sammy Jay screaming , `` Thief , thief , thief ! ''
A little sigh of relief escape Lightfoot .
He know that that screaming of Sammy Jay 's be a warning to tell him where the hunter be .
Knowing just where the hunter be make it easy for Lightfoot to know what to do .
A Merry Little Breeze come steal through the Green Forest .
It come from behind Lightfoot and dance on towards the hunter with the terrible gun .
Instantly Lightfoot begin to steal softly away through the Green Forest .
He take the great care to make no sound .
He go in a half-circle , stop every few step to listen and test the air with his wonderful nose .
Can you guess what Lightfoot be try to do ?
He be try to get behind the hunter so that the Merry Little Breezes would bring to him the dread man-scent .
So long a Lightfoot could get that scent , he would know where the hunter be , though he could neither see nor hear him .
If he have remain where Sammy Jay have find him , the hunter might have come within shoot distance before Lightfoot could have locate him .
So the hunter with the terrible gun walk noiselessly through the Green Forest , step with the great care to avoid snap a stick underfoot , search with keen eye every thicket and likely hiding-place for a glimpse of Lightfoot , and study the ground for trace to show that Lightfoot have be there .
CHAPTER VII THE MERRY LITTLE BREEZES HELP LIGHTFOOT Could you have see the hunter with the terrible gun and Lightfoot the Deer that morning on which the hunting season open you might have think that Lightfoot be hunt the hunter instead of the hunter hunt Lightfoot .
You see , Lightfoot be behind the hunter instead of in front of him .
He be follow the hunter , so a to keep track of him .
As long a he know just where the hunter be , he felt reasonably safe .
The Merry Little Breezes be Lightfoot 's best friend .
They always bring to him all the different scent they find a they wander through the Green Forest .
And Lightfoot 's delicate nose be so wonderful that he can take these scent , even though they be very faint , and tell just who or what have make them .
So , though he make the best possible use of his big ear and his beautiful eye , he trust more to his nose to warn him of danger .
For this reason , during the hunting season when he move about , he move in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes may be blow .
He know that they will bring to him warn of any danger which may lie in that direction .
Now the hunter with the terrible gun who be look for Lightfoot know all this , for he be wise in the way of Lightfoot and of the other little people of the Green Forest .
When he have enter the Green Forest that morning he have first of all make sure of the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes be come .
Then he have begin to hunt in that direction , know that thus his scent would be carry behind him .
It be more than likely that he would have reach the hiding-place of Lightfoot the Deer before the latter would have know that he be in the Green Forest , have it not be for Sammy Jay 's warning .
When he reach the tangle of fall tree behind which Lightfoot have be hide , he work around it slowly and with the great care , hold his terrible gun ready to use instantly should Lightfoot leap out .
Presently he find Lightfoot 's footprint in the soft ground and study them he know that Lightfoot have know of his come .
`` It be that confound Jay , '' mutter the hunter .
`` Lightfoot hear him and know what it mean .
I know what he have do ; he have circle round so a to get behind me and get my scent .
It be a clever trick , a very clever trick , but two can play at that game .
I 'll just try that little trick myself . ''
So the hunter in his turn make a wide circle back , and presently there be none of the dreaded man-smell among the scent which the Merry Little Breezes bring to Lightfoot .
Lightfoot have lose track of the hunter .
CHAPTER VIII WIT AGAINST WIT It be a dreadful game the hunter with the terrible gun and Lightfoot the Deer be play in the Green Forest .
It be a matching of wit against wit , the hunter seek to take Lightfoot 's life , and Lightfoot seek to save it .
The experience of other year have teach Lightfoot much of the way of hunter and not one of the thing he have learn about them be forget .
But the hunter in his turn know much of the way of Deer .
So it be that each be try his best to outguess the other .
When the hunter find the hiding-place Lightfoot have leave at the warning of Sammy Jay he follow Lightfoot 's track for a short distance .
It be slow work , and only one whose eye have be train to notice little thing could have do it .
You see , there be no snow , and only now and then , when he have step on a bit of soft ground , have Lightfoot leave a footprint .
But there be other sign which the hunter know how to read , -- a freshly upturned leaf here , and here , a bit of moss lightly crush .
These thing tell the hunter which way Lightfoot have go .
Slowly , patiently , watchfully , the hunter follow .
After a while he stop with a satisfied grin .
`` I think as much , '' he mutter .
`` He hear that pesky Jay and circle around so a to get my scent .
I 'll just cut across to my old trail and unless I be greatly mistaken , I 'll find his track there . ''
So , swiftly but silently , the hunter cut across to his old trail , and in a few moment he find just what he expect , -- one of Lightfoot 's footprint .
Once more he grin .
`` Well , old fellow , I 've out-guessed you this time , '' say he to himself .
`` I be behind you and the wind be from you to me , so that you can not get my scent .
I would n't be a bit surprised if you 're back right where you start from , behind that old windfall . ''
He at once begin to move forward silently and cautiously , with eye and ear alert and his terrible gun ready for instant use .
Now when Lightfoot , follow behind the hunter , have lose the scent of the latter , he guess right away that the latter have find his track and have start to follow them .
Lightfoot stand still and listen with all his might for some little sound to tell him where the hunter be .
But there be no sound and after a little Lightfoot begin to move on .
He do n't dare remain still , l the hunter should creep up within shoot distance .
There be only one direction in which it be safe for Lightfoot to move , and that be the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes be blow .
So long a they bring him none of the dreaded man-smell , he know that he be safe .
The hunter might be behind him -- probably he be -- but ahead of him , so long a the Merry Little Breezes be blow in his face and bring no man-smell , be safety .
CHAPTER IX LIGHTFOOT BECOMES UNCERTAIN Lightfoot the Deer travel on through the Green Forest , straight ahead in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes be blow .
Every few step he would raise his delicate nose and test all the scent that the Merry Little Breezes be bring .
So long a he keep the Merry Little Breezes blow in his face , he could be sure whether or not there be danger ahead of him .
Lightfoot use his nose very much a you and I use our eye .
It tell him the thing he want to know .
He know that Reddy Fox have be along ahead of him , although he do n't get so much a a glimpse of Reddy 's red coat .
Once he catch just the faint of scent which cause him to stop abruptly and test the air more carefully than ever .
It be the scent of Buster Bear .
But it be so very faint that Lightfoot know Buster be not near , so he go ahead again , but even more carefully than before .
After a little he could n't smell Buster at all , so he know then that Buster have merely pass that way when he be go to some other part of the Green Forest .
Lightfoot know that he have nothing to fear in that direction so long a the Merry Little Breezes bring him none of the dreaded man-scent , and he know that he could trust the Merry Little Breezes to bring him that scent if there should be a man anywhere in front of him .
You know the Merry Little Breezes be Lightfoot 's best friend .
But Lightfoot do n't want to keep go in that direction all day .
It would take him far away from that part of the Green Forest with which he be familiar and which he call home .
It might in time take him out of the Green Forest and that would n't do at all .
So after a while Lightfoot become uncertain .
He do n't know just what to do .
You see , he could n't tell whether or not that hunter with the terrible gun be still follow him .
Every once in a while he would stop in a thicket of young tree or behind a tangle of fall tree uproot by the wind .
There he would stand , face the direction from which he have come , and watch and listen for some sign that the hunter be still follow .
But after a few minute of this he would grow uneasy and then bind away in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes be blow , so a to be sure of not run into danger .
`` If only I could know if that hunter be still follow , I would know good what to do , '' think Lightfoot .
`` I 've get to find out . ''
CHAPTER X LIGHTFOOT 'S CLEVER TRICK Lightfoot the Deer be smart .
Yes , Sir , Lightfoot the Deer be smart .
He have to be , especially in the hunting season , to save his life .
If he be not smart he would have be kill long ago .
He never make the foolish mistake of thinking that other people be not smart .
He know that the hunter who have start out to follow him early that morning be not one to be easily discourage or to be fool by simple trick .
He have a very great respect for the smartness of that hunter .
He know that he could n't afford to be careless for one little minute .
The certainty of danger be sometimes easy to bear than the uncertainty of not know whether or not there really be any danger .
Lightfoot felt that if he could know just where the hunter be , he himself would know good what to do .
The hunter might have become discouraged and give up follow him .
In that case he could rest and stop worrying .
It would be good to know that he be be follow than not to know .
But how be he to find out ?
Lightfoot keep turn this over and over in his mind a he travel through the Green Forest .
Then an idea come to him .
`` I know what I 'll do .
I know just what I 'll do , '' say Lightfoot to himself .
`` I 'll find out whether or not that hunter be still follow me and I 'll get a little rest .
Goodness know , I need a rest . ''
Lightfoot bound away swiftly and run for some distance , then he turn and quickly , but very , very quietly , return in the direction from which he have just come but a little to one side of his old trail .
After a while he saw what he be look for , a pile of branch which woodchoppers have leave when they have trim the tree they have cut down .
This be near the top of a little hill .
Lightfoot go up the hill and stop behind the pile of brush .
For a few moment he stand there perfectly still , look and listen .
Then , with a little sigh of relief , he lay down , where , without be in any danger of be see himself , he could watch his old trail through the hollow at the bottom of the hill .
If the hunter be still follow him , he would pass through that hollow in plain sight .
For a long time Lightfoot rest comfortably behind the pile of brush .
There be not a suspicious movement or a suspicious sound to show that danger be abroad in the Green Forest .
He saw Mr. and Mrs. Grouse fly down across the hollow and disappear among the tree on the other side .
He saw Unc ' Billy Possum look over a hollow tree and guess that Unc ' Billy be get ready to go into winter quarter .
He saw Jumper the Hare squat down under a low-hanging branch of a hemlock-tree and prepare to take a nap .
He hear Drummer the Woodpecker at work drilling after worm in a tree not far away .
Little by little Lightfoot grow easy in his mind .
It must be that that hunter have become discouraged and be no longer follow him .
CHAPTER XI THE HUNTED WATCHES THE HUNTER It be so quiet and peaceful and altogether lovely there in the Green Forest , where Lightfoot the Deer lay rest behind a pile of brush near the top of a little hill , that it do n't seem possible such a thing a sudden death could be anywhere near .
It do n't seem possible that there could be any need for watchfulness .
But Lightfoot long ago have learn that often danger be near when it seem least to be expect .
So , though he would have like very much to have take a nap , Lightfoot be too wise to do anything so foolish .
He keep his beautiful , great , soft eye fix in the direction from which the hunter with the terrible gun would come if he be still follow that trail .
He keep his great ear gently move to catch every little sound .
Lightfoot have about decide that the hunter have give up hunt for that day , but he do n't let this keep him from be any the less watchful .
It be well to be overwatchful than the least bit careless .
By and by , Lightfoot 's keen ear catch the sound of the snapping of a little stick in the distance .
It be so faint a sound that you or I would have miss it altogether .
But Lightfoot hear it and instantly he be doubly alert , watch in the direction from which that faint sound have come .
After what seem a long , long time he saw something moving , and a moment later a man come into view .
It be the hunter and across one arm he carry the terrible gun .
Lightfoot know now that this hunter have patience and perseverance and have not yet give up hope of get near enough to shoot Lightfoot .
He move forward slowly , set each foot down with the great care , so a not to snap a stick or rustle the leaf .
He be watch sharply ahead , ready to shoot should he catch a glimpse of Lightfoot within range .
Right along through the hollow at the foot of the little hill below Lightfoot the hunter pass .
He be no longer study the ground for Lightfoot 's track , because the ground be so hard and dry down there that Lightfoot have leave no track .
He be simply hunt in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes be blow because he know that Lightfoot have go in that direction , and he also know that if Lightfoot be still ahead of him , his scent could not be carry to Lightfoot .
He be do what be call `` hunting up-wind . ''
Lightfoot keep perfectly still and watch the hunter disappear among the tree .
Then he silently get to his foot , shake himself lightly , and noiselessly stole away over the hilltop towards another part of the Green Forest .
He felt sure that that hunter would not find him again that day .
CHAPTER XII LIGHTFOOT VISITS PADDY THE BEAVER Deep in the Green Forest be the pond where live Paddy the Beaver .
It be Paddy 's own pond , for he make it himself .
He make it by build a dam across the Laughing Brook .
When Lightfoot bound away through the Green Forest , after watch the hunter pas through the hollow below him , he remember Paddy 's pond .
`` That 's where I 'll go , '' think Lightfoot .
`` It be such a lonesome part of the Green Forest that I do not believe that hunter will come there .
I 'll just run over and make Paddy a friendly call . ''
So Lightfoot bound along deep and deeply into the Green Forest .
Presently through the tree he catch the gleam of water .
It be Paddy 's pond .
Lightfoot approach it cautiously .
He felt sure he be rid of the hunter who have follow him so far that day , but he know that there might be other hunter in the Green Forest .
He know that he could n't afford to be careless for even one little minute .
Lightfoot have live long enough to know that most of the sad thing and dreadful thing that happen in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows be due to carelessness .
No one who be hunt , be he big or little , can afford ever to be careless .
Now Lightfoot have know of hunter hide near water , hop to shoot him when he come to drink .
That always seem to Lightfoot a dreadful thing , an unfair thing .
But hunter have do it before and they might do it again .
So Lightfoot be careful to approach Paddy 's pond up-wind .
That be , he approach the side of the pond from which the Merry Little Breezes be blow toward him , and all the time he keep his nose working .
He know that if any hunter be hide there , the Merry Little Breezes would bring him their scent and thus warn him .
He have almost reach the edge of Paddy 's pond when from the farther shore there come a sudden crash .
It startle Lightfoot terribly for just an instant .
Then he guess what it mean .
That crash be the fall of a tree .
There be n't enough wind to blow over even the most shaky dead tree .
There have be no sound of ax , so he know it could not have be chop down by men .
It must be that Paddy the Beaver have cut it , and if Paddy have be work in daylight , it be certain that no one have be around that pond for a long time .
So Lightfoot hurry forward eagerly , cautiously .
When he reach the bank he look across towards where the sound of that fall tree have come from ; a branch of a tree be move along in the water and half hide by it be a brown head .
It be Paddy the Beaver take the branch to his food pile .
CHAPTER XIII LIGHTFOOT AND PADDY BECOME PARTNERS The instant Lightfoot saw Paddy the Beaver he know that for the time be , at least , there be no danger .
He know that Paddy be one of the shy of all the little people of the Green Forest and that when he be find work in the daytime it mean that he have be undisturbed for a long time ; otherwise he would work only at night .
Paddy saw Lightfoot almost as soon a he step out on the bank .
He keep right on swim with the branch of a poplar-tree until he reach his food pile , which , you know , be in the water .
There he force the branch down until it be hold by other branch already sink in the pond .
This do , he swim over to where Lightfoot be watch .
`` Hello , Lightfoot ! ''
he exclaim .
`` You be look handsomer than ever .
How be you feel these fine autumn day ? ''
`` Anxious , '' reply Lightfoot .
`` I be feel terribly anxious .
Do you know what day this be ? ''
`` No , '' reply Paddy , `` I do n't know what day it be , and I do n't particularly care .
It be enough for me that it be one of the fine day we 've have for a long time . ''
`` I wish I could feel that way , '' say Lightfoot wistfully .
`` I wish I could feel that way , Paddy , but I ca n't .
No , Sir , I ca n't .
You see , this be the first of the most dreadful day in all the year for me .
The hunter start look for me before Mr. Sun be really out of bed .
At least one hunter do , and I do n't doubt there be others .
I fool that one , but from now to the end of the hunting season there will not be a single moment of daylight when I will feel absolutely safe . ''
Paddy creep out on the bank and chew a little twig of poplar thoughtfully .
Paddy say he can always think good if he be chew something .
`` That 's bad news , Lightfoot .
I 'm sorry to hear it .
I certainly be sorry to hear it , '' say Paddy .
`` Why anybody want to hunt such a handsome fellow a you be , I can not understand .
My , but that 's a beautiful set of antler you have ! ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` My , but that 's a beautiful set of antler you have ! '' -RSB-
`` They be the best I 've ever have ; but do you know , Paddy , I suspect that they may be one of the reason I be hunt so , '' reply Lightfoot a little sadly .
`` Good look be not always to be desire .
Have you see any hunter around here lately ? ''
Paddy shake his head .
`` Not a single hunter , '' he reply .
`` I tell you what it be , Lightfoot , let 's be partner for a while .
You stay right around my pond .
If I see or hear or smell anything suspicious , I 'll warn you .
You do the same for me .
Two set of eye , ear and nose be good than one .
What do you say , Lightfoot ? ''
`` I 'll do it , '' reply Lightfoot .
CHAPTER XIV HOW PADDY WARNED LIGHTFOOT It be a queer partnership , that partnership between Lightfoot and Paddy , but it be a good partnership .
They have be the best of friend for a long time .
Paddy have always be glad to have Lightfoot visit his pond .
To tell the truth , he be rather fond of handsome Lightfoot .
You know Paddy be himself not at all handsome .
On land he be a rather clumsy-looking fellow and really homely .
So he admire Lightfoot greatly .
That be one reason why he propose that they be partner .
Lightfoot himself think the idea a splendid one .
He spend that night browse not far from Paddy 's pond .
With the come of daylight he lay down in a thicket of young hemlock-trees near the upper end of the pond .
It be a quiet , peaceful day .
It be so quiet and peaceful and beautiful it be hard to believe that hunter with terrible gun be search the Green Forest for beautiful Lightfoot .
But they be , and Lightfoot know that sooner or later one of them would be sure to visit Paddy 's pond .
So , though he rest and take short nap all through that beautiful day , he be anxious .
He could n't help but be .
The next morning find Lightfoot back in the same place .
But this morning he take no nap .
He rest , but all the time he be watchful and alert .
A feeling of uneasiness possess him .
He felt in his bone that danger in the shape of a hunter with a terrible gun be not far distant .
But the hour slip away , and little by little he grow less uneasy .
He begin to hope that that day would prove as peaceful a the previous day have be .
Then suddenly there be a sharp report from the farther end of Paddy 's pond .
It be almost like a pistol shot .
However , it be n't a pistol shot .
It be n't a shot at all .
It be the slap of Paddy 's broad tail on the surface of the water .
Instantly Lightfoot be on his foot .
He know just what that meant .
He know that Paddy have see or hear or smell a hunter .
It be even so .
Paddy have hear a dry stick snap .
It be a very tiny snap , but it be enough to warn Paddy .
With only his head above water he have watch in the direction from which that sound have come .
Presently , steal quietly along towards the pond , a hunter have come in view .
Instantly , Paddy have bring his broad tail down on the water with all his force .
He know that Lightfoot would know that that mean danger .
Then Paddy have dive , and swim under water , have seek the safety of his house .
He have do his part , and there be nothing more he could do .
CHAPTER XV THE THREE WATCHERS When Paddy the Beaver slap the water with his broad tail , make a noise like a pistol shot , Lightfoot understand that this be mean a a warning of danger .
He be on his foot instantly , with eye , ear , and nose seek the cause of Paddy 's warning .
After a moment or two he steal softly up to the top of a little ridge some distance back from Paddy 's pond , but from the top of which he could see the whole of the pond .
There he hide among some close-growing young hemlock-trees .
It be n't long before he saw a hunter with a terrible gun come down to the shore of the pond .
Now the hunter have hear Paddy slap the water with his broad tail .
Of course .
There would have be something very wrong with his ear have he fail to hear it .
`` Confound that Beaver ! ''
mutter the hunter crossly .
`` If there be a Deer anywhere around this pond , he probably be on his way now .
I 'll have a look around and see if there be any sign . ''
So the hunter go on to the edge of Paddy 's pond and then begin to walk around it , study the ground a he walk .
Presently he find the footprint of Lightfoot in the mud where Light foot have go down to the pond to drink .
`` I think as much , '' mutter the hunter .
`` Those track be make last night .
That Deer probably be lie down somewhere near here , and I might have have a shot but for that pesky Beaver .
I 'll just look the land over , and then I think I 'll wait here awhile .
If that Deer be n't too badly scar , he may come back . ''
So the hunter go quite around the pond , look into all likely hiding-places .
He find where Lightfoot have be lie , and he know that in all probability Lightfoot have be there when Paddy give the danger signal .
`` It 's of no use for me to try to follow him , '' think the hunter .
`` It be too dry for me to track him .
He may not be so badly scar , after all .
I 'll just find a good place and wait . ''
So the hunter find an old log behind some small tree and there sit down .
He could see all around Paddy 's pond .
He sit perfectly still .
He be a clever hunter and he know that so long a he do not move he be not likely to be notice by any sharp eye that might come that way .
What he do n't know be that Lightfoot have be watch him all the time and be even then stand where he could see him .
And another thing he do n't know be that Paddy the Beaver have come out of his house and , swim under water , have reach a hiding-place on the opposite shore from which he too have see the hunter sit down on the log .
So the hunter watch for Lightfoot , and Lightfoot and Paddy watch the hunter .
CHAPTER XVI VISITORS TO PADDY 'S POND That hunter be a man of patience .
Also he be a man who understand the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows .
He know that if he would not be see he must not move .
So he do n't move .
He keep as motionless a if he be a part of the very log on which he be sit .
For some time there be no sign of any living thing .
Then , from over the tree top in the direction of the Big River , come the whistle of swift wing , and Mr. and Mrs. Quack alight with a splash in the pond .
For a few moment they sit on the water , a picture of watchful suspicion .
They be look and listen to make sure that no danger be near .
Satisfied at last , they begin to clean their feather .
It be plain that they felt safe .
Paddy the Beaver be tempt to warn them that they be not as safe a they think , but as long a the hunter do not move Paddy decide to wait .
Now the hunter be sorely tempt to shoot these Ducks , but he know that if he do he would have no chance that day to get Lightfoot the Deer , and it be Lightfoot he want .
So Mr. and Mrs. Quack swam about within easy range of that terrible gun without once suspect that danger be anywhere near .
By and by the hunter 's keen eye catch a movement at one end of Paddy 's dam .
An instant later Bobby Coon appear .
It be clear that Bobby be quite unsuspicious .
He carry something , but just what the hunter could not make out .
He take it down to the edge of the water and there carefully wash it .
Then he climb up on Paddy 's dam and begin to eat .
You know Bobby Coon be very particular about his food .
Whenever there be water near , Bobby wash his food before eating .
Once more the hunter be tempt , but do not yield to the temptation , which be a very good thing for Bobby Coon .
All this Lightfoot saw a he stand among the little hemlock-trees at the top of the ridge behind the hunter .
He saw and he understand .
`` It be because he want to kill me that he do n't shoot at Mr. and Mrs. Quack or Bobby Coon , '' think Lightfoot a little bitterly .
`` What have I ever do that he should be so anxious to kill me ? ''
Still the hunter sit without move .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack contentedly hunt for food in the mud at the bottom of Paddy 's pond .
Bobby Coon finish his meal , cross the dam and disappear in the Green Forest .
He have go off to take a nap somewhere .
Time slip away .
The hunter continue to watch patiently for Lightfoot , and Lightfoot and Paddy the Beaver watch the hunter .
Finally , another visitor appear at the upper end of the pond -- a visitor in a wonderful coat of red .
It be Reddy Fox .
CHAPTER XVII SAMMY JAY ARRIVES When Reddy Fox arrive at the pond of Paddy the Beaver , the hunter who be hide there saw him instantly .
So do Lightfoot .
But no one else do .
He approach in that cautious , careful way that he always use when he be hunt .
The instant he reach a place where he could see all over Paddy 's pond , he stop as suddenly a if he have be turn to stone .
He stop with one foot lift in the act of take a step .
He have see Mr. and Mrs. Quack .
Now you know there be nothing Reddy Fox like good for a dinner than a Duck .
The instant he saw Mr. and Mrs. Quack , a gleam of long crept into his eye and his mouth begin to water .
He stand motionless until both Mr. and Mrs. Quack have their head under water a they search for food in the mud in the bottom of the pond .
Then like a red flash he bound out of sight behind the dam of Paddy the Beaver .
Presently the hunter saw Reddy 's black nose at the end of the dam a Reddy peep around it to watch Mr. and Mrs. Quack .
The latter be slowly move along in that direction a they feed .
Reddy be quick to see this .
If he remain right where he be , and Mr. and Mrs. Quack keep on feeding in that direction , the chance be that he would have a dinner of fat Duck .
All he need do be to be patient and wait .
So , with his eye fix fast on Mr. and Mrs. Quack , Reddy Fox crouch behind Paddy 's dam and wait .
Watching Reddy and the Ducks , the hunter almost forget Lightfoot the Deer .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack be get very near to where Reddy be wait for them .
The hunter be tempt to get up and frighten those Ducks .
He do n't want Reddy Fox to have them , because he hop some day to get them himself .
`` I suppose , '' think he , `` I be foolish not to shoot them when I have the chance .
They be too far away now , and it look very much a if that red rascal will get one of them .
I believe I 'll spoil that red scamp 's plan by frighten them away .
I do n't believe that Deer will be back here to-day anyway , so I may as well save those Ducks . ''
But the hunter do nothing of the kind .
You see , just a he be get ready to step out from his hiding-place , Sammy Jay arrive .
He perch in a tree close to the end of Paddy 's dam and at once he spy Reddy Fox .
It do n't take him a second to discover what Reddy be hide there for .
`` Thief , thief , thief ! ''
scream Sammy , and then look down at Reddy with a mischievous look in his sharp eye .
There be nothing Sammy Jay delight in more than in upset the plan of Reddy Fox .
At the sound of Sammy 's voice , Mr. and Mrs. Quack swam hurriedly towards the middle of the pond .
They know exactly what that warn meant .
Reddy Fox look up at Sammy Jay and snarl angrily .
Then , know it be useless to hide longer , he bound away through the Green Forest to hunt elsewhere .
CHAPTER XVIII THE HUNTER LOSES HIS TEMPER The hunter , hide near the pond of Paddy the Beaver , chuckle silently .
That be to say , he laugh without make any sound .
The hunter think the warning of Mr. and Mrs. Quack by Sammy Jay be a great joke on Reddy .
To tell the truth , he be very much please .
As you know , he want those Ducks himself .
He suspect that they would stay in that little pond for some day , and he plan to return there and shoot them after he have get Lightfoot the Deer .
He want to get Lightfoot first , and he know that to shoot at anything else might spoil his chance of get a shot at Lightfoot .
`` Sammy Jay do me a good turn , '' think the hunter , `` although he do n't know it .
Reddy Fox certainly would have catch one of those Ducks have Sammy not come along just when he do .
It would have be a shame to have have one of them catch by that Fox .
I mean to get one , and I hope both of them , myself . ''
Now when you come to think of it , it would have be a far great shame for the hunter to have kill Mr. and Mrs. Quack than for Reddy Fox to have do so .
Reddy be hunt them because he be hungry .
The hunter would have shoot them for sport .
He do n't need them .
He have plenty of other food .
Reddy Fox do n't kill just for the pleasure of kill .
So the hunter continue to sit in his hiding-place with very friendly feeling for Sammy Jay .
Sammy watch Reddy Fox disappear and then fly over to that side of the pond where the hunter be .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack call their thanks to Sammy , to which he reply , that he have do no more for them than he would do for anybody , or than they would have do for him .
For some time Sammy sit quietly in the top of the tree , but all the time his sharp eye be very busy .
By and by he spy the hunter sit on the log .
At first he could n't make out just what it be he be look at .
It do n't move , but nevertheless Sammy be suspicious .
Presently he fly over to a tree where he could see good .
Right away he spy the terrible gun , and he know just what that be .
Once more he begin to yell , `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
at the top of his lung .
It be then that the hunter lose his temper .
He know that now he have be discover by Sammy Jay , and it be useless to remain there longer .
He be angry clear through .
CHAPTER XIX SAMMY JAY IS MODEST As soon a the angry hunter with the terrible gun have disappear among the tree of the Green Forest , and Lightfoot be sure that he have go for good , Lightfoot come out from his hiding-place on top of the ridge and walk down to the pond of Paddy the Beaver for a drink .
He know that it be quite safe to do so , for Sammy Jay have follow the hunter , all the time screaming , `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
Every one within hear could tell just where that hunter be by Sammy 's voice .
It keep grow fainter and fainter , and by that Lightfoot know that the hunter be get far and far away .
Paddy the Beaver swim out from his hiding-place and climb out on the bank near Lightfoot .
There be a twinkle in his eye .
`` That blue-coated mischief-maker be n't such a bad fellow at heart , after all , be he ? ''
say he .
Lightfoot lift his beautiful head and set his ear forward to catch the sound of Sammy 's voice in the distance .
`` Sammy Jay may be a mischief-maker , a some people say , '' say he , `` but you can always count on him to prove a true friend in time of danger .
He bring me warning of the come of the hunter the other morning .
You saw him save Mr. and Mrs. Quack a little while ago , and then he actually drive that hunter away .
I suppose Sammy Jay have save more life than any one I know of .
I wish he would come back here and let me thank him . ''
Some time later Sammy Jay do come back .
`` Well , '' say he , a he smooth his feather , `` I chase that fellow clear to the edge of the Green Forest , so I guess there will be nothing more to fear from him to-day .
I 'm glad to see he have n't get you yet , Lightfoot .
I 've be a bit worried about you . ''
`` Sammy , '' say Lightfoot , `` you be one of the best friend I have .
I do n't know how I can ever thank you for what you have do for me . ''
`` Do n't try , '' reply Sammy shortly .
`` I have n't do anything but what anybody else would have do .
Old Mother Nature give me a pair of good eye and a strong voice .
I simply make the best use of them I can .
Just to see a hunter with a terrible gun make me angry clear through .
I 'd rather spoil his hunt than eat . ''
`` You want to watch out , Sammy .
One of these day a hunter will lose his temper and shoot you , just to get even with you , '' warn Paddy the Beaver .
`` Do n't worry about me , '' reply Sammy `` I know just how far those terrible gun can shoot , and I do n't take any chance .
By the way , Lightfoot , the Green Forest be full of hunter look for you .
I 've see a lot of them , and I know they be look for you because they do not shoot at anybody else even when they have a chance . ''
CHAPTER XX LIGHTFOOT HEARS A DREADFUL SOUND Day after day , Lightfoot the Deer play hide and seek for his life with the hunter who be seek to kill him .
He saw them many time , though not one of them saw him .
More than once a hunter pass close to Lightfoot 's hiding-place without once suspect it .
But poor Lightfoot be feel the strain .
He be grow thin , and he be so nervous that the fall of a dead leaf from a tree would startle him .
There be nothing quite so terrible a be continually hunt .
It be get so that Lightfoot half expect a hunter to step out from behind every tree .
Only when the Black Shadows wrap the Green Forest in darkness do he know a moment of peace .
And those hour of safety be fill with dread of what the next day might bring .
Early one morning a terrible sound ring through the Green Forest and bring Lightfoot to his foot with a startled jump .
It be the baying of hound follow a trail .
At first it do not sound so terrible .
Lightfoot have often hear it before .
Many time he have listen to the baying of Bowser the Hound , a he follow Reddy Fox .
It have not sound so terrible then because it mean no danger to Lightfoot .
At first , a he listen early that morning , he take it for grant that those hound be after Reddy , and so , though startle , he be not worry .
But suddenly a dreadful suspicion come to him and he grow more and more anxious a he listen .
In a few minute there be no longer any doubt in his mind .
Those hound be follow his trail .
It be then that the sound of that baying become terrible .
He must run for his life !
Those hound would give him no rest .
And he know that in run from them , he would no longer be able to watch so closely for the hunter with terrible gun .
He would no longer be able to hide in thicket .
At any time he might be drive right past one of those hunter .
Lightfoot bound away with such leap a only Lightfoot can make .
In a little while the voice of the hound grow fainter .
Lightfoot stop to get his breath and stand trembling a he listen .
The baying of the hound again grow louder and louder .
Those wonderful nose of theirs be follow his trail without the least difficulty .
In a panic of fear , Lightfoot bound away again .
As he cross an old road , the Green Forest rang with the roar of a terrible gun .
Something tore a strip of bark from the trunk of a tree just above Lightfoot 's back .
It be a bullet and it have just miss Lightfoot .
It add to his terror and this in turn add to his speed .
So Lightfoot ran and ran , and behind him the voice of the hound continue to ring through the Green Forest .
CHAPTER XXI HOW LIGHTFOOT GOT RID OF THE HOUNDS Poor Lightfoot !
It seem to him that there be no such thing a justice and fair play .
Had it be just one hunter at a time against whom he have to match his wit it would not have be so bad .
But there be many hunter with terrible gun look for him , and in dodge one he be likely at any time to meet another .
This in itself seem terribly unfair and unjust .
But now , add to this be the great unfairness of be trail by hound .
Do you wonder that Lightfoot think of men a utterly heartless ?
You see , he could not know that those hound have not be put on his trail , but have leave home to hunt for their own pleasure .
He could not know that it be against the law to hunt him with dog .
But though none of those hunter look for him be guilty of have put the hound on his trail , each one of them be willing and eager to take advantage of the fact that the hound be on his trail .
Already he have be shoot at once and he know that he would be shoot at again if he should be drive where a hunter be hide .
The ground be damp and scent always lie best on damp ground .
This make it easy for the hound to follow him with their wonderful nose .
Lightfoot try every trick he could think of to make those hound lose the scent .
`` If only I could make them lose it long enough for me to get a little rest , it would help , '' pant Lightfoot , a he pause for just an instant to listen to the baying of the hound .
But he could n't .
They allow him no rest .
He be become very , very tired .
He could no longer bind lightly over fall log or brush , a he have do at first .
His lung ache a he pant for breath .
He realize that even though he should escape the hunter he would meet an even more terrible death unless he could get rid of those hound .
There would come a time when he would have to stop .
Then those hound would catch up with him and tear him to piece .
It be then that he remember the Big River .
He turn towards it .
It be his only chance and he know it .
Straight through the Green Forest , out across the Green Meadows to the bank of the Big River , Lightfoot run .
For just a second he pause to look behind .
The hound be almost at his heel .
Lightfoot hesitate no longer but plunge into the Big River and begin to swim .
On the bank the hound stop and bay their disappointment , for they do not dare follow Lightfoot out into the Big River .
CHAPTER XXII LIGHTFOOT 'S LONG SWIM The Big River be very wide .
It would have be a long swim for Lightfoot have he be fresh and at his best .
Strange a it may seem , Lightfoot be a splendid swimmer , despite his small , delicate foot .
He enjoy swimming .
But now Lightfoot be terribly tire from his long run ahead of the hound .
For a time he swim rapidly , but those weary muscle grow still more weary , and by the time he reach the middle of the Big River it seem to him that he be not get ahead at all .
At first he have try to swim towards a clump of tree he could see on the opposite bank above the point where he have enter the water , but to do this he have to swim against the current and he soon find that he have n't the strength to do this .
Then he turn and head for a point down the Big River .
This make the swimming easy , for the current help him instead of hinder him .
Even then he could feel his strength leave him .
Had he escape those hound and the terrible hunter only to be drown in the Big River ?
This new fear give him more strength for a little while .
But it do not last long .
He be three fourth of the way across the Big River but still that other shore seem a long distance away .
Little by little hope die in the heart of Lightfoot the Deer .
He would keep on just as long a he could and then , -- well , it be well to drown than to be tear to piece by dog .
Just a Lightfoot felt that he could not take another stroke and that the end be at hand , one foot touch something .
Then , all four foot touch .
A second later he have find solid footing and be stand with the water only up to his knee .
He have find a little sand bar out in the Big River .
With a little gasp of return hope , Lightfoot wad along until the water begin to grow deep again .
He have hop that he would be able to wade ashore , but he saw now that he would have to swim again .
So for a long time he remain right where he be .
He be so tired that he tremble all over , and he be as frightened a he be tire .
He know that stand out there in the water he could be see for a long distance , and that make him nervous and fearful .
Supposing a hunter on the shore he be try to reach should see him .
Then he would have no chance at all , for the hunter would simply wait for him and shoot him a he come out of the water .
But rest he must , and so he stand for a long time on the little sand bar in the Big River .
And little by little he felt his strength returning .
CHAPTER XXIII LIGHTFOOT FINDS A FRIEND As Lightfoot rest , try to recover his breath , out there on the little sand bar in the Big River , his great , soft , beautiful eye watch first one bank and then the other .
On the bank he have leave , he could see two black-and-white speck move about , and across the water come the barking of dog .
Those two speck be the hound who have drive him into the Big River .
They be bark now , instead of baying .
Presently a brown form join the black-and-white speck .
It be a hunter drawn there by the barking of the dog .
He be too far away to be dangerous , but the mere sight of him fill Lightfoot with terror again .
He watch the hunter walk along the bank and disappear in the bush .
Presently out of the bush come a boat , and in it be the hunter .
He head straight towards Lightfoot , and then Lightfoot know that his brief rest be at an end .
He must once more swim or be shoot by the hunter in the boat .
So Lightfoot again strike out for the shore .
His rest have give him new strength , but still he be very , very tired and swimming be hard work .
Slowly , oh so slowly , he draw nearer to the bank .
What new danger might be wait there , he do not know .
He have never be on that side of the Big River .
He know nothing of the country on that side .
But the uncertainty be good than the certainty behind him .
He could hear the sound of the oar a the hunter in the boat do his best to get to him before he should reach the shore .
On Lightfoot struggle .
At last he felt bottom beneath his foot .
He stagger up through some bush along the bank and then for an instant it seem to him his heart stop beat .
Right in front of him stand a man .
He have come out into the back yard of the home of that man .
It be doubtful which be the more surprised , Lightfoot or the man .
Right then and there Lightfoot give up in despair .
He could n't run .
It be all he could do to walk .
The long chase by the hound on the other side of the Big River and the long swim across the Big River have take all his strength .
Not a spark of hope remain to Lightfoot .
He simply stand still and tremble , partly with fear and partly with weariness .
Then a surprising thing happen .
The man speak softly .
He advance , not threateningly but slowly , and in a friendly way .
He walk around back of Lightfoot and then straight towards him .
Lightfoot walk on a few step , and the man follow , still talk softly .
Little by little he urge Lightfoot on , drive him towards an open shed in which be a pile of hay .
Without understand just how , Lightfoot know that he have find a friend .
So he enter the open shed and with a long sigh lay down in the soft hay .
CHAPTER XXIV THE HUNTER IS DISAPPOINTED How he know he be safe , Lightfoot the Deer could n't have tell you .
He just know it , that be all .
He could n't understand a word say by the man in whose yard he find himself when he climb the bank after his long swim across the Big River .
But he do n't have to understand word to know that he have find a friend .
So he allow the man to drive him gently over to an open shed where there be a pile of soft hay and there he lay down , so tired that it seem to him he could n't move another step .
It be only a few minute later that the hunter who have follow Lightfoot across the River reach the bank and scramble out of his boat .
Lightfoot 's friend be wait just at the top of the bank .
Of course the hunter saw him at once .
`` Hello , Friend ! ''
cry the hunter .
`` Did you see a Deer pas this way a few minute ago ?
He swim across the river , and if I know anything about it he 's too tired to travel far now .
I 've be hunt that fellow for several day , and if I have any luck at all I ought to get him this time . ''
`` I 'm afraid you wo n't have any luck at all , '' say Lightfoot 's friend .
`` You see , I do n't allow any hunting on my land . ''
The hunter look surprised , and then his surprise give way to anger .
`` You mean , '' say he , `` that you intend to get that Deer yourself . ''
Lightfoot 's friend shake his head .
`` No , '' say he , `` I do n't mean anything of the kind .
I mean that that Deer be not to be kill if I can prevent it , and while it be on my land , I think I can .
The best thing for you to do , my friend , be to get into your boat and row back where you come from .
Are those your hound bark over there ? ''
`` No , '' reply the hunter promptly .
`` I know the law just as well a you do , and it be against the law to hunt Deer with dog .
I do n't even know who own those two hound over there . ''
`` That may be true , '' reply Lightfoot 's friend .
`` I do n't doubt it be true .
But you be willing to take advantage of the fact that the dog of some one else have break the law .
You know that those dog have drive that Deer into the Big River and you promptly take advantage of the fact to try to reach that Deer before he could get across .
You be not hunt for the pleasure of hunt but just to kill .
You do n't know the meaning of justice or fairness .
Now get off my land .
Get back into your boat and off my land as quick a you can .
That Deer be not very far from here and so tire that he can not move .
Just as long a he will stay here , he will be safe , and I hope he will stay until this miserable hunting season be end .
Now go . ''
Muttering angrily , the hunter get back into his boat and push off , but he do n't row back across the river .
CHAPTER XXV THE HUNTER LIES IN WAIT If ever there be an angry hunter , it be the one who have follow Lightfoot the Deer across the Big River .
When he be order to get off the land where Lightfoot have climb out , he get back into his boat , but he do n't row back to the other side .
Instead , he row down the river , finally land on the same side but on land which Lightfoot 's friend do not own .
`` When that Deer have become rest he 'll become uneasy , '' think the hunter .
`` He wo n't stay on that man 's land .
He 'll start for the near wood .
I 'll go up there and wait for him .
I 'll get that Deer if only to spite that fellow back there who drive me off .
Had it not be for him , I 'd have that Deer right now .
He be too tire to have go far .
He 's get the handsome pair of antler I 've see for year .
I can sell that head of his for a good price . ''
So the hunter tie his boat to a tree and once more climb out .
He climb up the bank and study the land .
Across a wide meadow he could see a brushy old pasture and back of that some thick wood .
He grin .
`` That 's where that Deer will head for , '' he decide .
`` There be n't any other place for him to go .
All I 've get to do be be patient and wait . ''
So the hunter take his terrible gun and tramp across the meadow to the brush-grown pasture .
There he hide among the bush where he could peep out and watch the land of Lightfoot 's friend .
He be still angry because he have be prevent from shoot Lightfoot .
At the same time he chuckle , because he think himself very smart .
Lightfoot could n't possibly reach the shelter of the wood without give him a shot , and he have n't the least doubt that Lightfoot would start for the wood just as soon a he felt able to travel .
So he make himself comfortable and prepared to wait the rest of the day , if necessary .
Now Lightfoot 's friend who have drive the hunter off have see him row down the river and he have guess just what be in that hunter 's mind .
`` We 'll fool him , '' say he , chuckle to himself , a he walk back towards the shed where poor Lightfoot be rest .
He do not go too near Lightfoot , for he do not want to alarm him .
He just keep within sight of Lightfoot , pay no attention to him but go about his work .
You see , this man love and understand the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , and he know that there be no sure way of win Lightfoot 's confidence and trust than by appear to take no notice of him .
Lightfoot , watch him , understood .
He know that this man be a friend and would do him no harm .
Little by little , the wonderful , bless feeling of safety crept over Lightfoot .
No hunter could harm him here .
CHAPTER XXVI LIGHTFOOT DOES THE WISE THING All the rest of that day the hunter with the terrible gun lay hide in the bush of the pasture where he could watch for Lightfoot the Deer to leave the place of safety he have find .
It require a lot of patience on the part of the hunter , but the hunter have plenty of patience .
It sometimes seem a if hunter have more patience than any other people .
But this hunter wait in vain .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun sink down in the west to his bed behind the Purple Hills .
The Black Shadows creep out and grow blacker .
One by one the star begin to twinkle .
Still the hunter wait , and still there be no sign of Lightfoot .
At last it become so dark that it be useless for the hunter to remain long .
Disappointed and once more become angry , he tramp back to the Big River , climb into his boat and row across to the other side .
Then he tramp home and his thought be very bitter .
He know that he could have shoot Lightfoot have it not be for the man who have protect the Deer .
He even begin to suspect that this man have himself kill Lightfoot , for he have be sure that as soon a he have become rested Lightfoot would start for the wood , and Lightfoot have do nothing of the kind .
In fact , the hunter have not have so much a another glimpse of Lightfoot .
The reason that the hunter have be so disappointed be that Lightfoot be smart .
He be smart enough to understand that the man who be save him from the hunter have do it because he be a true friend .
All the afternoon Lightfoot have rest on a bed of soft hay in an open shed and have watch this man go about his work and take the utmost care to do nothing to frighten Lightfoot .
`` He not only will let no one else harm me , but he himself will not harm me , '' think Lightfoot .
`` As long a he be near , I be safe .
I 'll stay right around here until the hunting season be over , then I 'll swim back across the Big River to my home in the dear Green Forest . ''
So all afternoon Lightfoot rest and do not so much a put his nose outside that open shed .
That be why the hunter get no glimpse of him .
When it become dark , so dark that he know there be no longer danger , Lightfoot get up and step out under the star .
He be feel quite himself again .
His splendid strength have return .
He bound lightly across the meadow and up into the brushy pasture where the hunter have be hide .
There and in the wood back of the pasture he browse , but at the first hint of the come of another day , Lightfoot turn back , and when his friend , the farmer , come out early in the morning to milk the cow , there be Lightfoot back in the open shed .
The farmer smile .
`` You be as wise a you be handsome , old fellow , '' say he .
CHAPTER XXVII SAMMY JAY WORRIES It be n't often Sammy Jay worry about anybody but himself .
Truth to tell , he do n't worry about himself very often .
You see , Sammy be smart , and he know he be smart .
Under that point cap of his be some of the clever wit in all the Green Forest .
Sammy seldom worry about himself because he feel quite able to take care of himself .
But Sammy Jay be worry now .
He be worry about Lightfoot the Deer .
Yes , Sir , Sammy Jay be worry about Lightfoot the Deer .
For two day he have be unable to find Lightfoot or any trace of Lightfoot .
But he do find plenty of hunter with terrible gun .
It seem to him that they be everywhere in the Green Forest .
Sammy begin to suspect that one of them must have succeed in kill Lightfoot the Deer .
Sammy know all of Lightfoot 's hiding-places .
He visit every one of them .
Lightfoot be n't to be find , and no one whom Sammy meet have see Lightfoot for two day .
Sammy felt badly .
You see , he be very fond of Lightfoot .
You remember it be Sammy who warn Lightfoot of the come of the hunter on the morning when the dreadful hunt season begin .
Ever since the hunting season have open , Sammy have do his best to make trouble for the hunter .
Whenever he have find one of them he have scream at the top of his voice to warn every one within hearing just where that hunter be .
Once a hunter have lose his temper and shot at Sammy , but Sammy have suspect that something of the kind might happen , and he have take care to keep just out of reach .
Sammy have know all about the chasing of Lightfoot by the hound .
Everybody in the Green Forest have know about it .
You see , everybody have hear the voice of those hound .
Once , Lightfoot have pass right under the tree in which Sammy be sit , and a few moment later the two hound have pass with their nose to the ground a they follow Lightfoot 's trail .
That be the last Sammy have see of Lightfoot .
He have be able to save Lightfoot from the hunter , but he could n't save him from the hound .
The more Sammy thought thing over , the more he worry .
`` I be afraid those hound drive him out where a hunter could get a shot and kill him , or else that they tire him out and kill him themselves , '' think Sammy .
`` If he be alive , somebody certainly would have see him and nobody have , since the day those hound chase him .
I declare , I have quite lose my appetite worry about him .
If Lightfoot be dead , and I be almost sure he be , the Green Forest will never seem the same . ''
CHAPTER XXVIII THE HUNTING SEASON ENDS The very bad thing come to an end at last .
No matter how bad a thing be , it can not last forever .
So it be with the hunting season for Lightfoot the Deer .
There come a day when the law protect all Deer , -- a day when the hunter could no longer go search for Lightfoot .
Usually there be great rejoicing among the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows when the hunting season end and they know that Lightfoot would be in no more danger until the next hunting season .
But this year there be no rejoicing .
You see , no one could find Lightfoot .
The last see of him be when he be run for his life with two hound bay on his trail and the Green Forest fill with hunter watch for a chance to shoot him .
Sammy Jay have hunt everywhere through the Green Forest .
Blacky the Crow , whose eye be quite as sharp a those of Sammy Jay , have join in the search .
They have find no trace of Lightfoot .
Paddy the Beaver say that for three day Lightfoot have not visit his pond for a drink .
Billy Mink , who travel up and down the Laughing Brook , have look for Lightfoot 's footprint in the soft earth along the bank and have find only old one .
Jumper the Hare have visit Lightfoot 's favorite eating place at night , but Lightfoot have not be in any of them .
-LSB- Illustration : `` I tell you what it be , '' say Sammy Jay to Bobby Coon , `` something have happen to Lightfoot . '' -RSB-
`` I tell you what it be , '' say Sammy Jay to Bobby Coon , `` something have happen to Lightfoot .
Either those hound catch him and kill him , or he be shoot by one of those hunter .
The Green Forest will never be the same without him .
I do n't think I shall want to come over here very much .
There be n't one of all the other people who live in the Green Forest who would be miss a Lightfoot will be . ''
Bobby Coon nod .
`` That 's true , Sammy , '' say he .
`` Without Lightfoot , the Green Forest will never be the same .
He never harm anybody .
Why those hunter should have be so anxious to kill one so beautiful be something I ca n't understand .
For that matter , I do n't understand why they want to kill any of u .
If they really need u for food , it would be a different matter , but they do n't .
Have you be up in the Old Pasture and ask Old Man Coyote if he have see anything of Lightfoot ? ''
Sammy nod .
`` I 've be up there twice , '' say he .
`` Old Man Coyote have be lie very low during the day , but night he have do a lot of travel .
You know Old Man Coyote have a mighty good nose , but not once since the day those hound chase Lightfoot have he find so much a a tiny whiff of Lightfoot 's scent .
I think he might have find the place where Lightfoot be kill , but he have n't , although he have look for it .
Well , the hunting season for Lightfoot be over , but I be afraid it have end too late . ''
CHAPTER XXIX Mr. AND MRS. QUACK ARE STARTLED It be the evening of the day after the closing of the hunting season for Lightfoot the Deer .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have go to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows have creep out across the Big River .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack be get their evening meal among the brown stalk of the wild rice along the edge of the Big River .
They take turn in search for the rice grain in the mud .
While Mrs. Quack tip up and seem to stand on her head a she search in the mud for rice , Mr. Quack keep watch for possible danger .
Then Mrs. Quack take her turn at keep watch , while Mr. Quack stand on his head and hunt for rice .
It be wonderfully quiet and peaceful .
There be not even a ripple on the Big River .
It be so quiet that they could hear the barking of a dog at a farmhouse a mile away .
They be far enough out from the bank to have nothing to fear from Reddy Fox or Old Man Coyote .
So they have nothing to fear from any one save Hooty the Owl .
It be for Hooty that they take turn in watching .
It be just the hour when Hooty like best to hunt .
By and by they hear Hooty 's hunt call .
It be far away in the Green Forest .
Then Mr. and Mrs. Quack felt easier , and they talk in low , contented voice .
They felt that for a while at least there be nothing to fear .
Suddenly a little splash out in the Big River catch Mr. Quack 's quick ear .
As Mrs. Quack bring her head up out of the water , Mr. Quack warn her to keep quiet .
Noiselessly they swim among the brown stalk until they could see out across the Big River .
There be another little splash out there in the middle .
It be n't the splash make by a fish ; it be a splash make by something much big than any fish .
Presently they make out a silver line move towards them from the Black Shadows .
They know exactly what it mean .
It mean that some one be out there in the Big River move towards them .
Could it be a boat contain a hunter ?
With their neck stretch high , Mr. and Mrs. Quack watch .
They be ready to take to their strong wing the instant they discover danger .
But they do not want to fly until they be sure that it be danger approaching .
They be startle , very much startle .
Presently they make out what look like the branch of a tree move over the water towards them .
That be queer , very queer .
Mr. Quack say so .
Mrs. Quack say so .
Both be grow more and more suspicious .
They could n't understand it at all , and it be always best to be suspicious of thing you can not understand .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack half lift their wing to fly .
CHAPTER XXX THE MYSTERY IS SOLVED It be very mysterious .
Yes , Sir , it be very mysterious .
Mr. Quack think so .
Mrs. Quack think so .
There , out in the Big River , in the midst of the Black Shadows , be something which look like the branch of a tree .
But instead of move down the river , a the branch of a tree would if it be float , this be come straight across the river a if it be swim .
But how could the branch of a tree swim ?
That be too much for Mr. Quack .
It be too much for Mrs. Quack .
So they sit perfectly still among the brown stalk of the wild rice along the edge of the Big River , and not for a second do they take their eye from that strange thing move towards them .
They be ready to spring into the air and trust to their swift wing the instant they should detect danger .
But they do not want to fly unless they have to .
Besides , they be curious .
They be very curious indeed .
They want to find out what that mysterious thing move through the water towards them be .
So Mr. and Mrs. Quack watch that thing that look like a swimming branch draw nearer and nearer , and the nearer it draw the more they be puzzle , and the more curious they felt .
If it have be the pond of Paddy the Beaver instead of the Big River , they would have think it be Paddy swim with a branch for his winter food pile .
But Paddy the Beaver be way back in his own pond , deep in the Green Forest , and they know it .
So this thing become more and more of a mystery .
The nearer it come , the more nervous and anxious they grow , and at the same time the great become their curiosity .
At last Mr. Quack felt that not even to gratify his curiosity would it be safe to wait long .
He prepare to spring into the air , know that Mrs. Quack would follow him .
It be just then that a funny little sound reach him .
It be half snort , half cough , a if some one have sniff some water up his nose .
There be something familiar about that sound .
Mr. Quack decide to wait a few minute longer .
`` I 'll wait , '' think Mr. Quack , `` until that thing , whatever it be , come out of those Black Shadows into the moonlight .
Somehow I have a feeling that we be in no danger . ''
So Mr. and Mrs. Quack wait and watch .
In a few minute the thing that look like the branch of a tree come out of the Black Shadows into the moonlight , and then the mystery be solve .
It be a mystery no longer .
They saw that they have mistake the antler of Lightfoot the Deer for the branch of a tree .
Lightfoot be swim across the Big River on his way back to his home in the Green Forest .
At once Mr. and Mrs. Quack swim out to meet him and to tell him how glad they be that he be alive and safe .
CHAPTER XXXI A SURPRISING DISCOVERY Probably there be no happier Thanksgiving in all the Great World than the Thanksgiving of Lightfoot the Deer , when the dreadful hunt season end and he be once more back in his beloved Green Forest with nothing to fear .
All his neighbor call on him to tell him how glad they be that he have escape and how the Green Forest would not have be the same if he have not return .
So Lightfoot roam about without fear and be happy .
It seem to him that he could not be happy .
There be plenty to eat and that bless feeling of nothing to fear .
What more could any one ask ?
He begin to grow sleek and fat and handsomer than ever .
The day be grow colder and the frosty air make him feel good .
Just at dusk one evening he go down to his favorite drinking place at the Laughing Brook .
As he put down his head to drink he saw something which so surprise him that he quite forget he be thirsty .
What do you think it be he saw ?
It be a footprint in the soft mud .
Yes , Sir , it be a footprint .
For a long time Lightfoot stand star at that footprint .
In his great , soft eye be a look of wonder and surprise .
You see , that footprint be exactly like one of his own , only small .
To Lightfoot it be a very wonderful footprint .
He be quite sure that never have he see such a dainty footprint .
He forget to drink .
Instead , he begin to search for other footprint , and presently he find them .
Each be as dainty a that first one .
Who could have make them ?
That be what Lightfoot want to know and what he mean to find out .
It be clear to him that there be a stranger in the Green Forest , and somehow he do n't resent it in the least .
In fact , he be glad .
He could n't have tell why , but it be true .
Lightfoot put his nose to the footprint and sniffed of them .
Even have he not know by look at those print that they have be make by a stranger , his nose would have tell him this .
A great longing to find the maker of those footprint take possession of him .
He lift his handsome head and listen for some slight sound which might show that the stranger be near .
With his delicate nostril he test the wandering little Night Breezes for a stray whiff of scent to tell him which way to go .
But there be no sound and the wandering little Night Breezes tell him nothing .
Lightfoot follow the dainty footprints up the bank .
There they disappear , for the ground be hard .
Lightfoot pause , undecided which way to go .
CHAPTER XXXII LIGHTFOOT SEES THE STRANGER Lightfoot the Deer be unhappy .
It be a strange unhappiness , an unhappiness such a he have never know before .
You see , he have discover that there be a stranger in the Green Forest , a stranger of his own kind , another Deer .
He know it by dainty footprint in the mud along the Laughing Brook and on the edge of the pond of Paddy the Beaver .
He know it by other sign which he run across every now and then .
But search a he would , he be unable to find that newcomer .
He have search everywhere but always he be just too late .
The stranger have be and go .
Now there be no anger in Lightfoot 's desire to find that stranger .
Instead , there be a great longing .
For the first time in his life Lightfoot felt lonely .
So he hunt and hunt and be unhappy .
He lose his appetite .
He sleep little .
He roam about uneasily , look , listen , test every Merry Little Breeze , but all in vain .
Then , one never-to-be-forgotten night , a he drink at the Laughing Brook , a strange feeling sweep over him .
It be the feeling of be watch .
Lightfoot lift his beautiful head and a slight movement catch his quick eye and draw it to a thicket not far away .
The silvery light of gentle Mistress Moon fell full on that thicket , and thrust out from it be the most beautiful head in all the Great World .
At least , that be the way it seem to Lightfoot , though to tell the truth it be not as beautiful a his own , for it be uncrowned by antler .
For a long minute Lightfoot stand gazing .
A pair of wonderful , great , soft eye gaze back at him .
Then that beautiful head disappear .
With a mighty bound , Lightfoot clear the Laughing Brook and rush over to the thicket in which that beautiful head have disappear .
He plunge in , but there be no one there .
Frantically he search , but that thicket be empty .
Then he stand still and listen .
Not a sound reach him .
It be as still a if there be no other live thing in all the Green Forest .
The beautiful stranger have slip away as silently a a shadow .
All the rest of that night Lightfoot search through the Green Forest but his search be in vain .
The longing to find that beautiful stranger have become so great that he fairly ache with it .
It seem to him that until he find her he could know no happiness .
CHAPTER XXXIII A DIFFERENT GAME OF HIDE AND SEEK Once more Lightfoot the Deer be play hide and seek in the Green Forest .
But it be a very different game from the one he have play just a short time before .
You remember that then it have be for his life that he have play , and he be the one who have do all the hiding .
Now , he be `` it '' , and some one else be do the hiding .
Instead of the dreadful fear which have fill him in that other game , he be now fill with longing , -- long to find and make friend with the beautiful stranger of whom he have just once catch a glimpse , but of whom every day he find track .
At time Lightfoot would lose his temper .
Yes , Sir , Lightfoot would lose his temper .
That be a foolish thing to do , but it seem to him that he just could n't help it .
He would stamp his foot angrily and thrash the bush with his great spread antler a if they be an enemy with whom he be fight .
More than once when he do this a pair of great , soft , gentle eye be watch him , though he do n't know it .
If he could have see them and the look of admiration in them , he would have be more eager than ever to find that beautiful stranger .
At other time Lightfoot would steal about through the Green Forest as noiselessly a a shadow .
He would peer into thicket and behind tangle of fall tree and brush pile , hop to surprise the one he seek .
He would be very , very patient .
Perhaps he would come to the thicket which he know from the sign the stranger have leave only a few moment before .
Then his patience would vanish in impatience , and he would dash ahead , eager to catch up with the shy stranger .
But always it be in vain .
He have think himself very clever but this stranger be prove herself more clever .
Of course it be n't long before all the little people in the Green Forest know what be go on .
They know all about that game of hide and seek just a they have know all about that other game of hide and seek with the hunter .
But now , instead of try to help Lightfoot a they do then , they give him no help at all .
The fact be , they be enjoy that game .
Mischievous Sammy Jay even go so far a to warn the stranger several time when Lightfoot be approach .
Of course Lightfoot know when Sammy do this , and each time he lose his temper .
For the time be , he quite forget all that Sammy have do for him when he be the one that be be hunt .
Once Lightfoot almost run smack into Buster Bear and be so provoke by his own carelessness that instead of bound away he actually threaten to fight Buster .
But when Buster grin good-naturedly at him , Lightfoot think good of it and bound away to continue his search .
Then there be time when Lightfoot would sulk and would declare over and over to himself , `` I do n't care anything about that stranger .
I wo n't spend another minute look for her , '' And then within five minute he would be watch , listen and seek some sign that she be still in the Green Forest .
CHAPTER XXXIV A STARTLING NEW FOOTPRINT The game of hide and seek between Lightfoot the Deer and the beautiful stranger whose dainty footprint have first start Lightfoot to seek her have be go on for several day and night when Lightfoot find something which give him a shock .
He have steal very softly down to the Laughing Brook , hop to surprise the beautiful stranger drinking there .
She be n't to be see .
Lightfoot wonder if she have be there , so look in the mud at the edge of the Laughing Brook to see if there be any fresh print of those dainty foot .
Almost at once he discover fresh footprint .
They be not the print he be look for .
No , Sir , they be not the dainty print he have learn to know so well .
They be print very near the size of his own big one , and they have be make only a short time before .
The finding of those print be a dreadful shock to Lightfoot .
He understand instantly what they mean .
They mean that a second stranger have come into the Green Forest , one who have antler like his own .
Jealousy take possession of Lightfoot the Deer ; jealousy that fill his heart with rage .
`` He have come here to seek that beautiful stranger I have be hunt for , '' think Lightfoot .
`` He have come here to try to steal her away from me .
He have no right here in my Green Forest .
He belong back up on the Great Mountain from which he must have come , for there be no other place he could have come from .
That be where that beautiful stranger must have come from , too .
I want her to stay , but I must drive this fellow out .
I 'll make him fight .
That 's what I 'll do ; I 'll make him fight !
I 'm not afraid of him , but I 'll make him fear me . ''
Lightfoot stamp his foot and with his great antler thrash the bush a if he felt that they be the enemy he seek .
Could you have look into his great eye then , you would have find nothing soft and beautiful about them .
They become almost red with anger .
Lightfoot quiver all over with rage .
The hair on the back of his neck stand up .
Lightfoot the Deer look anything but gentle .
After he have vent his spite for a few minute on the harmless , helpless bush , he throw his head high in the air and whistle angrily .
Then he leap over the Laughing Brook and once more begin to search through the Green Forest .
But this time it be not for the beautiful stranger with the dainty foot .
He have no time to think of her now .
He must first find this newcomer and he mean to waste no time in do it .
CHAPTER XXXV LIGHTFOOT IS RECKLESS In his search for the new stranger who have come to the Green Forest , Lightfoot the Deer be wholly reckless .
He no longer steal like a gray shadow from thicket to thicket a he have do when search for the beautiful stranger with the dainty foot .
He bound along , careless of how much noise he make .
From time to time he would stop to whistle a challenge and to clash his horn against the tree and stamp the ground with his foot .
After such exhibition of anger he would pause to listen , hop to hear some sound which would tell him where the stranger be .
Now and then he find the stranger 's track , and from them he know that this stranger be do just what he have be do , seek to find the beautiful newcomer with the dainty foot .
Each time he find these sign Lightfoot 's rage increase .
Of course it do n't take Sammy Jay long to discover what be go on .
There be little that escape those sharp eye of Sammy Jay .
As you know , he have early discover the game of hide and seek Lightfoot have be play with the beautiful young visitor who have come down to the Green Forest from the Great Mountain .
Then , by chance , Sammy have visit the Laughing Brook just a the big stranger have come down there to drink .
For once Sammy have keep his tongue still .
`` There be go to be excitement here when Lightfoot discover this fellow , '' think Sammy .
`` If they ever meet , and I have a feeling that they will , there be go to be a fight worth see .
I must pass the word around . ''
So Sammy Jay hunt up his cousin , Blacky the Crow , and tell him what he have discover .
Then he hunt up Bobby Coon and tell him .
He saw Unc ' Billy Possum sit in the doorway of his hollow tree and tell him .
He discover Jumper the Hare sit under a little hemlock-tree and tell him .
Then he fly over to the dear Old Briar-patch to tell Peter Rabbit .
Of course he tell Drummer the Woodpecker , Tommy Tit the Chickadee , and Yank Yank the Nuthatch , who be over in the Old Orchard , and they at once hurry to the Green Forest , for they could n't think of miss anything so exciting a would be the meeting between Lightfoot and the big stranger from the Great Mountain .
Sammy do n't forget to tell Paddy the Beaver , but it be no news to Paddy .
Paddy have see the big stranger on the edge of his pond early the night before .
Of course , Lightfoot know nothing about all this .
His one thought be to find that big stranger and drive him from the Green Forest , and so he continue his search tirelessly .
CHAPTER XXXVI SAMMY JAY TAKES A HAND Sammy Jay be bubble over with excitement a he fly about through the Green Forest , follow Lightfoot the Deer .
He be so excited he want to scream .
But he do n't .
He keep his tongue still .
You see , he do n't want Lightfoot to know that he be be follow .
Under that point cap of Sammy Jay 's be quick wit .
It do n't take him long to discover that the big stranger whom Lightfoot be seek be do his best to keep out of Lightfoot 's way and that he be have no difficulty in do so because of the reckless way in which Lightfoot be search for him .
Lightfoot make so much noise that it be quite easy to know just where he be and to keep out of his sight .
`` That stranger be nearly as big a Lightfoot , but it be very plain that he do n't want to fight , '' think Sammy .
`` He must be a coward . ''
Now the truth be , the stranger be not a coward .
He be ready and willing to fight if he have to , but if he could avoid fight he mean to .
You see , big a he be , he be n't quite so big a Lightfoot , and he know it .
He have see Lightfoot 's big footprint , and from their size he know that Lightfoot must be big and heavy than he .
Then , too , he know that he really have no right to be there in the Green Forest .
That be Lightfoot 's home and so he be an intruder .
He know that Lightfoot would feel this way about it and that this would make him fight all the harder .
So the big stranger want to avoid a fight if possible .
But he want still more to find that beautiful young visitor with the dainty foot for whom Lightfoot have be look .
He want to find her just a Lightfoot want to find her , and he hop that if he do find her , he could take her away with him back to the Great Mountain .
If he have to , he would fight for her , but until he have to he would keep out of the fight .
So he dodge Lightfoot and at the same time look for the beautiful stranger .
All this Sammy Jay guess , and after a while he grow tire of follow Lightfoot for nothing .
`` I 'll have to take a hand in this thing myself , '' mutter Sammy .
`` At this rate , Lightfoot never will find that big stranger ! ''
So Sammy stop follow Lightfoot and begin to search through the Green Forest for the big stranger .
It do n't take very long to find him .
He be over near the pond of Paddy the Beaver .
As soon a he saw him , Sammy begin to scream at the top of his lung .
At once he hear the sound of snap twig at the top of a little ridge back of Paddy 's pond and know that Lightfoot have hear and understood .
CHAPTER XXXVII THE GREAT FIGHT Down from the top of the ridge back of the pond of Paddy the Beaver plunge Lightfoot the Deer , his eye blaze with rage .
He have understand the screaming of Sammy Jay .
He know that somewhere down there be the big stranger he have be look for .
The big stranger have understand Sammy 's scream quite as well a Lightfoot .
He know that to run away now would be to prove himself a coward and forever disgrace himself in the eye of Miss Daintyfoot , for that be the name of the beautiful stranger he have be seek .
He must fight .
There be no way out of it , he must fight .
The hair on the back of his neck stand up with anger just as do the hair on the neck of Lightfoot .
His eye also blaze .
He bound out into a little open place by the pond of Paddy the Beaver and there he wait .
Meanwhile Sammy Jay be fly about in the great excitement , scream at the top of his lung , `` A fight !
A fight !
A fight ! ''
Blacky the Crow , over in another part of the Green Forest , hear him and take up the cry and at once hurry over to Paddy 's pond .
Everybody who be near enough hurry there .
Bobby Coon and Unc ' Billy Possum climb tree from which they could see and at the same time be safe .
Billy Mink hurry to a safe place on the dam of Paddy the Beaver .
Paddy himself climb up on the roof of his house out in the pond .
Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare , who happen to be not far away , hurry over where they could peep out from under some young hemlock-trees .
Buster Bear shuffle down the hill and watch from the other side of the pond .
Reddy and Granny Fox be both there .
For what seem like the long time , but which be for only a minute , Lightfoot and the big stranger stand still , glare at each other .
Then , snort with rage , they lower their head and plunge together .
Their antler clash with a noise that ring through the Green Forest , and both fell to their knee .
There they push and struggle .
Then they separate and back away , to repeat the movement over again .
It be a terrible fight .
Everybody say so .
If they have not know before , everybody know now what those great antler be for .
Once the big stranger manage to reach Lightfoot 's right shoulder with one of the sharp point of his antler and make a long tear in Lightfoot 's gray coat .
It only make Lightfoot fight harder .
Sometimes they would rear up and strike with their sharp hoof .
Back and forth they plunge , and the ground be tear up by their foot .
Both be get out of breath , and from time to time they have to stop for a moment 's rest .
Then they would come together again more fiercely than ever .
Never have such a fight be see in the Green Forest .
CHAPTER XXXVIII AN UNSEEN WATCHER As Lightfoot the Deer and the big stranger from the Great Mountain fought in the little opening near the pond of Paddy the Beaver , neither know or care who saw them .
Each be fill fully with rage and determine to drive the other from the Green Forest .
Each be fight for the right to win the love of Miss Daintyfoot .
Neither of them know that Miss Daintyfoot herself be watch them .
But she be .
She have hear the clash of their great antler a they have come together the first time , and she have know exactly what it mean .
Timidly she have steal forward to a thicket where , safely hidden , she could watch that terrible fight .
She know that they be fight for her .
Of course .
She know it just a she have know how both have be hunt for her .
What she do n't know for some time be which one she want to win that fight .
Both Lightfoot and the big stranger be handsome .
Yes , indeed , they be very handsome .
Lightfoot be just a little bit the big and it seem to her just a little bit the handsomer .
She almost want him to win .
Then , when she saw how bravely the big stranger be fight and how well he be hold his own , even though he be a little small than Lightfoot , she almost hop he would win .
That great fight last a long time .
To pretty Miss Daintyfoot it seem that it never would end .
But after a while Lightfoot 's great size and strength begin to tell .
Little by little the big stranger be force back towards the edge of the open place .
Now he would be throw to his knee when Lightfoot be n't .
As Lightfoot saw this , he seem to gain new strength .
At last he catch the stranger in such a way that he throw him over .
While the stranger struggle to get to his foot again , Lightfoot 's sharp antler make long tear in his gray coat .
The stranger be beat and he know it .
The instant he succeed in get to his foot he turn tail and plunge for the shelter of the Green Forest .
With a snort of triumph , Lightfoot plunge after him .
But now that he be beat , fear take possession of the stranger .
All desire to fight left him .
His one thought be to get away , and fear give him speed .
Straight back towards the Great Mountain from which he have come the stranger head .
Lightfoot follow only a short distance .
He know that that stranger be go for good and would not come back .
Then Lightfoot turn back to the open place where they have fight .
There he throw up his beautiful head , crown by it great antler , and whistle a challenge to all the Green Forest .
As she look at him , Miss Daintyfoot know that she have want him to win .
She know that there simply could n't be anybody else so handsome and strong and brave in all the Great World .
CHAPTER XXXIX LIGHTFOOT DISCOVERS LOVE Wonderfully handsome be Lightfoot the Deer a he stand in the little opening by the pond of Paddy the Beaver , his head throw back proudly , a he receive the congratulation of his neighbor of the Green Forest who have see him win the great fight with the big stranger who have come down from the Great Mountain .
To beautiful Miss Daintyfoot , peep out from the thicket where she have hide to watch the great fight , Lightfoot be the most wonderful person in all the Great World .
She adore him , which mean that she love him just as much a it be possible for her to love .
But Lightfoot do n't know this .
In fact , he do n't know that Miss Daintyfoot be there .
His one thought have be to drive out of the Green Forest the big stranger who have come down from the Great Mountain .
He have be jealous of that big stranger , though he have n't know that he be jealous .
The real cause of his anger and desire to fight had be the fear that the big stranger would find Miss Daintyfoot and take her away .
Of course this be nothing but jealousy .
Now that the great fight be over , and he know that the big stranger be hurry back to the Great Mountain , all Lightfoot 's anger melt away .
In it place be a great longing to find Miss Daintyfoot .
His great eye become once more soft and beautiful .
In them be a look of wistfulness .
Lightfoot walk down to the edge of the water and drank , for he be very , very thirsty .
Then he turn , intend to take up once more his search for beautiful Miss Daintyfoot .
When he turn he face the thicket in which Miss Daintyfoot be hide .
His keen eye catch a little movement of the branch .
A beautiful head be slowly thrust out , and Lightfoot gaze again into a pair of soft eye which he be sure be the most beautiful eye in all the Great World .
He wonder if she would disappear and run away a she have the last time he saw her .
He take a step or two forward .
The beautiful head be withdraw .
