Shall I tell you what I have learn , Joyce ?
The gist of the lesson be that I leave happiness behind me in the old valley , when I go away from it , happiness and peace and the joy of living .
I do not miss these thing for a long while ; I do not even know I have lose them .
But I have discover my loss . ''
`` Yet you have be a very successful man , '' she say wonderingly .
`` As the world call success , '' he answer bitterly .
`` I have place and wealth and power .
But that be not success , Joyce .
I be tire of these thing ; they be the toy of grown-up child ; they do not satisfy the man 's soul .
I have come back to the old valley seek for what might satisfy , but I have little hope of find it , unless -- unless -- '' He be silent , remember that he have forfeit all right to her help in the quest .
Yet he realize clearly that only she could help him , only she could guide him back to the path he have miss .
It seem to him that she hold in her keep all the good of his life , all the beauty of his past , all the possibility of his future .
Hers be the master word , but how should he dare ask her to utter it ?
They walk among the fir until the star come out , and they talk of many thing .
She have keep her freshness of soul and her ideal untarnished .
In the peace of the old valley she have live a life , narrow outwardly , wondrously deep and wide in thought and aspiration .
Her native hill bound the vision of her eye , but the outlook of the soul be far and unhindered .
In the quiet place and the green way she have find what he have fail to find -- the secret of happiness and content .
He know that if this woman have walk hand in hand with him through the year , life , even in the glare and tumult of that world beyond the hill , would never have lose it meaning for him .
Oh , fool and blind that he have be !
While he have seek and toil afar , the best that God have mean for him have be here in the home of youth .
When darkness come down through the fir he tell her all this , haltingly , blunderingly , yearningly .
`` Joyce , be it too late ?
Can you forgive my mistake , my long blindness ?
Can you care for me again -- a little ? ''
She turn her face upward to the sky between the sway fir top and he saw the reflection of a star in her eye .
`` I have never cease to care , '' she say in a low tone .
`` I never really want to cease .
It would have leave life too empty .
If my love mean so much to you it be yours , Cuthbert -- it always have be yours . ''
He draw her close into his arm , and a he felt her heart beat against his he understand that he have find the way back to simple happiness and true wisdom , the wisdom of loving and the happiness of be love .
Jane Lavinia Jane Lavinia put her precious portfolio down on the table in her room , carefully , a if it content be fine gold , and proceed to unpin and take off her second-best hat .
When she have go over to the Whittaker place that afternoon , she have want to wear her best hat , but Aunt Rebecca have veto that uncompromisingly .
`` Next thing you 'll be want to wear your best muslin to go for the cow , '' say Aunt Rebecca sarcastically .
`` You go right back upstairs and take off that chiffon hat .
If I be fool enough to be coax into buy it for you , I ai n't go to have you spoil it by traipse hither and yon with it in the dust and sun .
Your last summer 's sailor be plenty good enough to go to the Whittakers ' in , Jane Lavinia . ''
`` But Mr. Stephens and his wife be from New York , '' plead Jane Lavinia , `` and she 's so stylish . ''
`` Well , it 's likely they 're use to see chiffon hat , '' Aunt Rebecca respond , more sarcastically than ever .
`` It be n't probable that yours would make much of a sensation .
Mr. Stephens do n't send for you to show him your chiffon hat , do he ?
If he do , I do n't see what you 're lug that big portfolio along with you for .
Go and put on your sailor hat , Jane Lavinia . ''
Jane Lavinia obey .
She always obey Aunt Rebecca .
But she take off the chiffon hat and pin on the sailor with bitterness of heart .
She have always hat that sailor .
Anything ugly hurt Jane Lavinia with an intensity that Aunt Rebecca could never understand ; and the sailor hat be ugly , with it stiff little black bow and impossible blue rose .
It jar on Jane Lavinia 's artistic instinct .
Besides , it be very unbecoming .
I look horrid in it , Jane Lavinia have think sorrowfully ; and then she have go out and down the velvet-green springtime valley and over the sunny birch hill beyond with a lagging step and a rebellious heart .
But Jane Lavinia come home walk a if on the clear air of the crystal afternoon , her small , delicate face aglow and every fibre of her body and spirit thrill with excitement and delight .
She forget to fling the sailor hat into it box with her usual energy of dislike .
Just then Jane Lavinia have a soul above hat .
She look at herself in the glass and nod with friendliness .
`` You 'll do something yet , '' she say .
`` Mr. Stephens say you would .
Oh , I like you , Jane Lavinia , you dear thing !
Sometimes I have n't like you because you 're nothing to look at , and I do n't suppose you could really do anything worthwhile .
But I do like you now after what Mr. Stephens say about your drawing . ''
Jane Lavinia smile radiantly into the little cracked glass .
Just then she be pretty , with the glow on her cheek and the sparkle in her eye .
Her uncertainly tint hair and an all-too-certain little tilt of her nose no longer trouble her .
Such thing do not matter ; nobody would mind them in a successful artist .
And Mr. Stephens have say that she have talent enough to win success .
Jane Lavinia sit down by her window , which look west into a grove of fir .
They grow thickly , close up to the house , and she could touch their wide , fan-like branch with her hand .
Jane Lavinia love those fir tree , with their whisper and sigh and beckonings , and she also love her little shadowy , low-ceilinged room , despite it plainness , because it be gorgeous for her with vision and people with rainbow fancy .
The stained wall be cover with Jane Lavinia 's picture -- most of them pen-and-ink sketch , with a few flight into water colour .
Aunt Rebecca sniff at them and deplore the driving of tack into the plaster .
Aunt Rebecca think Jane Lavinia 's artistic labour a flat waste of time , which would have be much well put into rug and crochet tidy and afghan .
All the other girl in Chestercote make rug and tidy and afghan .
Why must Jane Lavinia keep mess with ink and crayon and water colour ?
Jane Lavinia only know that she must -- she could not help it .
There be something in her that demand expression thus .
When Mr. Stephens , who be a well-known artist and magazine illustrator , come to Chestercote because his wife 's father , Nathan Whittaker , be ill , Jane Lavinia 's heart have bound with a shy hope .
She indulge in some harmless manoeuvre which , with the aid of good-natured Mrs. Whittaker , be crown with success .
One day , when Mr. Whittaker be get well , Mr. Stephens have ask her to show him some of her work .
Jane Lavinia , wear the despised sailor hat , have go over to the Whittaker place with some of her best sketch .
She come home again feel a if all the world and herself be transfigure .
She look out from the window of her little room with great dreamy brown eye , see through the fir boughs the golden western sky beyond , serve a a canvas whereon her fancy paint glitter vision of her future .
She would go to New York -- and study -- and work , oh , so hard -- and go abroad -- and work harder -- and win success -- and be great and admired and famous -- if only Aunt Rebecca -- ah !
if only Aunt Rebecca !
Jane Lavinia sigh .
There be spring in the world and spring in Jane Lavinia 's heart ; but a chill come with the thought of Aunt Rebecca , who consider tidy and afghan nicer than her picture .
`` But I 'm go , anyway , '' say Jane Lavinia decidedly .
`` If Aunt Rebecca wo n't give me the money , I 'll find some other way .
I 'm not afraid of any amount of work .
After what Mr. Stephens say , I believe I could work twenty hour out of the twenty-four .
I 'd be content to live on a crust and sleep in a garret -- yes , and wear sailor hat with stiff bow and blue rose the year round . ''
Jane Lavinia sigh in luxurious renunciation .
Oh , it be good to be alive -- to be a girl of seventeen , with wonderful ambition and all the world before her !
The year of the future sparkle and gleam alluringly .
Jane Lavinia , with her head on the window sill , look out into the sunset splendour and dream .
Athwart her dream , rend in twain their frail , rose-tinted fabric , come Aunt Rebecca 's voice from the kitchen below , `` Jane Lavinia !
Jane Lavinia !
Ai n't you go for the cow tonight ? ''
Jane Lavinia start up guiltily ; she have forget all about the cow .
She slip off her muslin dress and hurry into her print ; but with all her haste it take time , and Aunt Rebecca be grim than ever when Jane Lavinia run downstairs .
`` It 'll be dark before we get the cow milk .
I s ` pose you 've be day-dreaming again up there .
I do wish , Jane Lavinia , that you have more sense . ''
Jane Lavinia make no response .
At any other time she would have go out with a lump in her throat ; but now , after what Mr. Stephens have say , Aunt Rebecca 's word have no power to hurt her .
`` After milk I 'll ask her about it , '' she say to herself , a she go blithely down the slop yard , across the little mossy bridge over the brook , and up the lane on the hill beyond , where the fern grow thickly and the grass be beset with tiny blue-eyes like purple star .
The air be moist and sweet .
At the top of the lane a wild plum tree hang out it branch of feathery bloom against the crimson sky .
Jane Lavinia linger , in spite of Aunt Rebecca 's hurry , to look at it .
It satisfy her artistic instinct and make her glad to be alive in the world where wild plum blossom against springtime sky .
The pleasure of it go with her through the pasture and back to the milk yard ; and stay with her while she help Aunt Rebecca milk the cow .
When the milk be strain into the creamer down at the spring , and the pail wash and set in a shining row on their bench , Jane Lavinia try to summon up her courage to speak to Aunt Rebecca .
They be out on the back verandah ; the spring twilight be purple down over the wood and field ; down in the swamp the frog be sing a silvery , haunt chorus ; a little baby moon be float in the clear sky above the white-blossoming orchard on the slope .
Jane Lavinia try to speak and could n't .
For a wonder , Aunt Rebecca spar her the trouble .
`` Well , what do Mr. Stephens think of your picture ? ''
she ask shortly .
`` Oh ! ''
Everything that Jane Lavinia want to say come rush at once and together to her tongue 's end .
`` Oh , Aunt Rebecca , he be delight with them !
And he say I have remarkable talent , and he want me to go to New York and study in an art school there .
He say Mrs. Stephens find it hard to get good help , and if I 'd be willing to work for her in the morning , I could live with them and have my afternoon off .
So it wo n't cost much .
And he say he would help me -- and , oh , Aunt Rebecca , ca n't I go ? ''
Jane Lavinia 's breath give out with a gasp of suspense .
Aunt Rebecca be silent for so long a space that Jane Lavinia have time to pass through the phase of hope and fear and despair and resignation before she say , more grimly than ever , `` If your mind be set on go , go you will , I suppose .
It do n't seem to me that I have anything to say in the matter , Jane Lavinia . ''
`` But , oh , Aunt Rebecca , '' say Jane Lavinia tremulously .
`` I ca n't go unless you 'll help me .
I 'll have to pay for my lesson at the art school , you know . ''
`` So that 's it , be it ?
And do you expect me to give you the money to pay for them , Jane Lavinia ? ''
`` Not give -- exactly , '' stammer Jane Lavinia .
`` I 'll pay it back some time , Aunt Rebecca .
Oh , indeed , I will -- when I 'm able to earn money by my picture ! ''
`` The security be hardly satisfactory , '' say Aunt Rebecca immovably .
`` You know well enough I have n't much money , Jane Lavinia .
I think when I be coax into give you two quarter ' lesson with Miss Claxton that it be as much a you could expect me to do for you .
I do n't suppose the next thing would be that you 'd be for betaking yourself to New York and expect me to pay your bill there . ''
Aunt Rebecca turn and go into the house .
Jane Lavinia , feel sore and bruise in spirit ; flee to her own room and cry herself to sleep .
Her eye be swell the next morning , but she be not sulky .
Jane Lavinia never sulk .
She do her morning 's work faithfully , although there be no spring in her step .
That afternoon , when she be out in the orchard try to patch up her tattered dream , Aunt Rebecca come down the blossomy avenue , a tall , gaunt figure , with an uncompromising face .
`` You 'd better go down to the store and get ten yard of white cotton , Jane Lavinia , '' she say .
`` If you 're go to New York , you 'll have to get a supply of underclothing make . ''
Jane Lavinia open her eye .
`` Oh , Aunt Rebecca , be I go ? ''
`` You can go if you want to .
I 'll give you all the money I can spare .
It ai n't much , but perhaps it 'll be enough for a start . ''
`` Oh , Aunt Rebecca , thank you ! ''
exclaim Jane Lavinia , crimson with conflict feeling .
`` But perhaps I ought n't to take it -- perhaps I ought n't to leave you alone -- '' If Aunt Rebecca have show any regret at the thought of Jane Lavinia 's departure , Jane Lavinia would have foregone New York on the spot .
But Aunt Rebecca only say coldly , `` I guess you need n't worry over that .
I can get along well enough . ''
And with that it be settle .
Jane Lavinia live in a whirl of delight for the next week .
She felt few regret at leave Chestercote .
Aunt Rebecca would not miss her ; Jane Lavinia think that Aunt Rebecca regard her a a nuisance -- a foolish girl who waste her time make picture instead of do something useful .
Jane Lavinia have never think that Aunt Rebecca have any affection for her .
She have be a very little girl when her parent have die , and Aunt Rebecca have take her to bring up .
Accordingly she have be `` bring up , '' and she be grateful to Aunt Rebecca , but there be no close bond between them .
Jane Lavinia would have give love for love unstintedly , but she never suppose that Aunt Rebecca love her .
On the morning of departure Jane Lavinia be up and ready early .
Her trunk have be take over to Mr. Whittaker 's the night before , and she be to walk over in the morning and go with Mr. and Mrs. Stephens to the station .
She put on her chiffon hat to travel in , and Aunt Rebecca do not say a word of protest .
Jane Lavinia cry when she say good-by , but Aunt Rebecca do not cry .
She shake hand and say stiffly , `` Write when you get to New York .
You need n't let Mrs. Stephens work you to death either . ''
Jane Lavinia go slowly over the bridge and up the lane .
If only Aunt Rebecca have be a little sorry !
But the morning be perfect and the air clear a crystal , and she be go to New York , and fame and fortune be to be hers for the working .
Jane Lavinia 's spirit rise and bubble over in a little trill of song .
Then she stop in dismay .
She have forget her watch -- her mother 's little gold watch ; she have leave it on her dress table .
Jane Lavinia hurry down the lane and back to the house .
In the open kitchen doorway she pause , stand on a mosaic of gold and shadow where the sunshine fell through the morning-glory vine .
Nobody be in the kitchen , but Aunt Rebecca be in the little bedroom that open off it , cry bitterly and talk aloud between her sob , `` Oh , she 's go and leave me all alone -- my girl have go !
Oh , what shall I do ?
And she do n't care -- she be glad to go -- glad to get away .
Well , it ai n't any wonder .
I 've always be too cranky with her .
But I love her so much all the time , and I be so proud of her !
I like her picture-making real well , even if I do complain of her waste her time .
Oh , I do n't know how I 'm ever go to keep on living now she 's go ! ''
Jane Lavinia listen with a face from which all the sparkle and excitement have go .
Yet amid all the wreck and ruin of her tumble castle in air , a glad little thrill make itself felt .
Aunt Rebecca be sorry -- Aunt Rebecca do love her after all !
Jane Lavinia turn and walk noiselessly away .
As she go swiftly up the wild plum lane , some tear brim up in her eye , but there be a smile on her lip and a song in her heart .
After all , it be nicer to be love than to be rich and admired and famous .
When she reach Mr. Whittaker 's , everybody be out in the yard ready to start .
`` Hurry up , Jane Lavinia , '' say Mr. Whittaker .
`` Blest if we have n't begin to think you be n't come at all .
Lively now . ''
`` I be not go , '' say Jane Lavinia calmly .
`` Not go ? ''
they all exclaim .
`` No .
I 'm very sorry , and very grateful to you , Mr. Stephens , but I ca n't leave Aunt Rebecca .
She 'd miss me too much . ''
`` Well , you little goose ! ''
say Mrs. Whittaker .
Mrs. Stephens say nothing , but frown coldly .
Perhaps her thought be less of the loss to the world of art than of the difficulty of hunt up another housemaid .
Mr. Stephens look honestly regretful .
`` I 'm sorry , very sorry , Miss Slade , '' he say .
`` You have exceptional talent , and I think you ought to cultivate it . ''
`` I be go to cultivate Aunt Rebecca , '' say Jane Lavinia .
Nobody know just what she mean , but they all understand the firmness of her tone .
Her trunk be take down out of the express wagon , and Mr. and Mrs. Stephens drive away .
Then Jane Lavinia go home .
She find Aunt Rebecca wash the breakfast dish , with the big tear roll down her face .
`` Goodness me ! ''
she cry , when Jane Lavinia walk in .
`` What 's the matter ?
You ai n't go and be too late ! ''
`` No , I 've just change my mind , Aunt Rebecca .
They 've go without me .
I be not go to New York -- I do n't want to go .
I 'd rather stay at home with you . ''
For a moment Aunt Rebecca star at her .
Then she step forward and fling her arm about the girl .
`` Oh , Jane Lavinia , '' she say with a sob , `` I 'm so glad !
I could n't see how I be go to get along without you , but I think you do n't care .
You can wear that chiffon hat everywhere you want to , and I 'll get you a pink organdy dress for Sundays . ''
-LSB- Illustration : SHE EYED CHESTER SOURLY . -RSB-
Mackereling Out in the Gulf The mackerel boat be all at anchor on the fishing ground ; the sea be glassy calm -- a pallid blue , save for a chance streak of deep azure where some stray sea breeze ruffle it .
It be about the middle of the afternoon , and intensely warm and breathless .
The headland and cove be blur by a purple heat haze .
The long sweep of the sandshore be so glaringly brilliant that the pained eye seek relief among the rough rock , where shadow be cast by the big red sandstone boulder .
The little cluster of fish house nearby be bleach to a silvery grey by long exposure to wind and rain .
Far off be several `` Yankee '' fishing schooner , their sail dimly visible against the white horizon .
Two boat be haul upon the `` skid '' that run from the rock out into the water .
A couple of dory float below them .
Now and then a white gull , flash silver where it plumage catch the sun , soar landward .
A young man be stand by the skid , watch the fishing boat through a spyglass .
He be tall , with a straight , muscular figure clad in a rough fishing suit .
His face be deeply brown by the gulf breeze and be attractive rather than handsome , while his eye , a blue and clear a the gulf water , be peculiarly honest and frank .
Two wiry , dark-faced French-Canadian boy be perch on one of the boat , watch the fishing fleet with lazy interest in their inky-black eye , and wonder if the `` Yanks '' have seine many mackerel that day .
Presently three people come down the steep path from the fish-houses .
One of them , a girl , run lightly forward and touch Benjamin Selby 's arm .
He lower his glass with a start and look around .
A flash of undisguised delight transfigure his face .
`` Why , Mary Stella !
I do n't expect you 'd be down this hot day .
You have n't be much at the shore lately , '' he add reproachfully .
`` I really have n't have time , Benjamin , '' she answer carelessly , a she take the glass from his hand and try to focus it on the fishing fleet .
Benjamin steady it for her ; the flush of pleasure be still glow on his bronzed cheek , `` Are the mackerel biting now ? ''
`` Not just now .
Who be that stranger with your father , Mary Stella ? ''
`` That be a cousin of ours -- a Mr. Braithwaite .
Are you very busy , Benjamin ? ''
`` Not busy at all -- idle a you see me .
Why ? ''
`` Will you take me out for a little row in the dory ?
I have n't be out for so long . ''
`` Of course .
Come -- here 's the dory -- your namesake , you know .
I have her fresh paint last week .
She 's as clean a an eggshell . ''
The girl step daintily off the rock into the little cream-coloured skiff , and Benjamin untie the rope and push off .
`` Where would you like to go , Mary Stella ? ''
`` Oh , just upshore a little way -- not far .
And do n't go out into very deep water , please , it make me feel frightened and dizzy . ''
Benjamin smile and promise .
He be row along with the easy grace of one use to the oar .
He have be bear and bring up in sound of the gulf 's wave ; it never-ceasing murmur have be his first lullaby .
He know it and love it in every mood , in every varying tint and smile , in every change of wind and tide .
There be no good skipper alongshore than Benjamin Selby .
Mary Stella wave her hand gaily to the two men on the rock .
Benjamin look back darkly .
`` Who be that young fellow ? ''
he ask again .
`` Where do he belong ? ''
`` He be the son of Father 's sister -- his favourite sister , although he have never see her since she marry an American year ago and go to live in the States .
She make Frank come down here this summer and hunt u up .
He be splendid , I think .
He be a New York lawyer and very clever . ''
Benjamin make no response .
He pull in his oar and let the dory float amid the ripple .
The bottom of white sand , pattern over with coloured pebble , be clear and distinct through the dark-green water .
Mary Stella lean over to watch the distorted reflection of her face by the dory 's side .
`` Have you have pretty good luck this week , Benjamin ?
Father could n't go out much -- he have be so busy with his hay , and Leon be such a poor fisherman . ''
`` We 've have some of the best haul of the summer this week .
Some of the Rustler boat catch six hundred to a line yesterday .
We have four hundred to the line in our boat . ''
Mary Stella begin absently to dabble her slender brown hand in the water .
A silence fell between them , with which Benjamin be well content , since it give him a chance to feast his eye on the beautiful face before him .
He could not recall the time when he have not love Mary Stella .
It seem to him that she have always be a part of his inmost life .
He love her with the whole strength and fidelity of a naturally intense nature .
He hop that she love him , and he have no rival that he fear .
In secret he exalt and deify her a something almost too holy for him to aspire to .
She be his ideal of all that be beautiful and good ; he be jealously careful over all his word and thought and action that not one might make him more unworthy of her .
In all the hardship and toil of his life his love be a his guardian angel , turn his foot from every dim and crooked byway ; he tread in no path where he would not have the girl he love to follow .
The rough labour be glorify if it lift him a step nearer the altar of his worship .
But today he felt faintly disturb .
In some strange , indefinable way it seem to him that Mary Stella be different from her usual self .
The impression be vague and evanescent -- go before he could decide wherein the difference lay .
He tell himself that he be foolish , yet the vexing , transient feel continue to come and go .
Presently Mary Stella say it be time to go back .
Benjamin be in no hurry , but he never dispute her light inclination .
He turn the dory about and row shoreward .
Back on the rock , Mosey Louis and Xavier , the French Canadians , be look through the spyglass by turn and make characteristic comment on the fleet .
Mr. Murray and Braithwaite be stand by the skid , watch the dory .
`` Who be that young fellow ? ''
ask the latter .
`` What a splendid physique he have !
It 's a pleasure to watch him row . ''
`` That , '' say the old man , with a certain proprietary pride in his tone , `` be Benjamin Selby -- the best mackerel fisherman on the island .
He 's be high line all along the gulf shore for year .
I do n't know a finer man every way you take him .
Maybe you 'll think I 'm partial , '' he continue with a smile .
`` You see , he and Mary Stella think a good deal of each other .
I expect to have Benjamin for a son-in-law some day if all go well . ''
Braithwaite 's expression change slightly .
He walk over to the dory and help Mary Stella out of it while Benjamin make the painter fast .
When the latter turn , Mary Stella be walk across the rock with her cousin .
Benjamin 's blue eye darken , and he stride moodily over to the boat .
`` You be n't out this morning , Mr. Murray ? ''
`` No , that hay have to be take in .
Reckon I miss it -- pretty good catch , they tell me .
Are they get any now ? ''
`` No .
It 's not likely the fish will begin to bite again for another hour . ''
`` I see someone stand up in that off boat , do n't I ? ''
say Mr. Murray , reach for the spyglass .
`` No , that 's only Rob Leslie 's crew try to fool u .
They 've try it before this afternoon .
They think it would be a joke to coax u out there to broil like themselves . ''
`` Frank , '' shout Mr. Murray , `` come here , I want you . ''
Aside to Benjamin he say , `` He 's my nephew -- a fine young chap .
You 'll like him , I know . ''
Braithwaite come over , and Mr. Murray put one hand on his shoulder and one on Benjamin 's .
`` Boys , I want you to know each other .
Benjamin , this be Frank Braithwaite .
Frank , this be Benjamin Selby , the high line of the gulf shore , a I tell you . ''
While Mr. Murray be speak , the two men look steadily at each other .
The few second seem very long ; when they have pass , Benjamin know that the other man be his rival .
Braithwaite be the first to speak .
He put out his hand with easy cordiality .
`` I be glad to meet you , Mr. Selby , '' he say heartily , `` although I be afraid I should feel very green in the presence of such a veteran fisherman a yourself . ''
His frank courtesy compel some return .
Benjamin take the proffered hand with restraint .
`` I 'm sorry there 's no mackerel go this afternoon , '' continue the American .
`` I want to have a chance at them .
I never saw mackerel catch before .
I suppose I 'll be very awkward at first . ''
`` It 's not a very hard thing to do , '' say Benjamin stiffly , speak for the first time since their meeting .
`` Most anybody could catch mackerel for a while -- it 's the sticking to it that count . ''
He turn abruptly and go back to his boat .
He could not force himself to talk civilly to the stranger , with that newly bear demon of distrust gnawing at his heart .
`` I think I 'll go out , '' he say .
`` It 's freshen up .
I should n't wonder if the mackerel school soon . ''
`` I 'll go , too , then , '' say Mr. Murray .
`` Hi , up there !
Leon and Pete !
Hi , I say ! ''
Two more French Canadians come run down from the Murray fish-house , where they have be enjoy a siesta .
They fish in the Murray boat .
A good deal of friendly rivalry a to catch go on between the two boat , while Leon and Mosey Louis be bitter enemy on their own personal account .
`` Think you 'll try it , Frank ? ''
shout Mr. Murray .
`` Well , not this afternoon , '' be the answer .
`` It 's rather hot .
I 'll see what it be like tomorrow . ''
The boat be quickly launch and glide out from the shadow of the cliff .
Benjamin stand at his mast .
Mary Stella come down to the water 's edge and wave her hand gaily .
`` Good luck to you and the best catch of the season , '' she call out .
Benjamin wave his hat in response .
His jealousy be forget for the moment and he felt that he have be churlish to Braithwaite .
`` You 'll wish you 'd come , '' he shout to him .
`` It 's go to be a great evening for fish . ''
When the boat reach the fishing ground , they come to and anchor , their mast come out in slender silhouette against the sky .
A row of dark figure be stand up in every boat ; the gulf shin expanse be darken by odd black streak -- the mackerel have begin to school .
Frank Braithwaite go out fish the next day and catch 30 mackerel .
He be boyishly proud of it .
He visit the shore daily after that and soon become very popular .
He develop into quite an expert fisherman ; nor , when the boat come in , do he shirk work , but manfully roll up his trouser and help carry water and `` gib '' mackerel a if he enjoy it .
He never put on any `` air , '' and he stoutly take Leon 's part against the aggressive Mosey Louis .
Even the French Canadians , those merciless critic , admit that the `` Yankee '' be a good fellow .
Benjamin Selby alone hold stubbornly aloof .
One even the loaded boat come in at sunset .
Benjamin sprang from his a it bump against the skid , and run up the path .
At the corner of his fish-house he stop and stand quite still , look at Braithwaite and Mary Stella , who be stand by the rough picket fence of the pasture land .
Braithwaite 's back be to Benjamin ; he hold the girl 's hand in his and be talk earnestly .
Mary Stella be look up at him , her delicate face throw back a little .
There be a look in her eye that Benjamin have never see there before -- but he know what it mean .
His face grow pale and rigid ; he clench his hand and a whirlpool of agony and bitterness surge up in his heart .
All the great blossom of the hope that have shed beauty and fragrance over his rough life seem suddenly to shrivel up into black unsightliness .
He turn and go swiftly and noiselessly down the road to his boat .
The murmur of the sea sound very far off .
Mosey Louis be busy count out the mackerel , Xavier be dip up bucket of water and pour it over the silvery fish .
The sun be set in a bank of purple cloud , and the long black headland to the west cut the golden sea like a wedge of ebony .
It be all real and yet unreal .
Benjamin go to work mechanically .
Presently Mary Stella come down to her father 's boat .
Braithwaite follow slowly , pause a moment to exchange some banter with saucy Mosey Louis .
Benjamin bent low over his table ; now and then he catch the dear tone of Mary Stella 's voice or her laughter at some sally of Pete or Leon .
He know when she go up the road with Braithwaite ; he catch the last glimpse of her light dress a she pass out of sight on the cliff above , but he work steadily on and give no sign .
It be late when they finish .
The tired French Canadians go quickly off to their bed in the fish-house loft .
Benjamin stood by the skid until all be quiet , then he walk down the cove to a rocky point that jut out into the water .
He lean against a huge boulder and lay his head on his arm , look up into the dark sky .
The star shine calmly down on his misery ; the throb sea stretch out before him ; it low , murmur moan seem to be the inarticulate voice of his pain .
The air be close and oppressive ; fitful flash of heat lightning shimmer here and there over the heavy bank of cloud on the horizon ; little wavelet sob at the base of the rock .
When Benjamin lift his head he saw Frank Braithwaite stand between him and the luminous water .
He take a step forward , and they come face to face a Braithwaite turn with a start .
Benjamin clench his hand and fight down a hideous temptation to thrust his rival off the rock .
`` I saw you today , '' he say in a low , intense tone .
`` What do you think of yourself , come down here to steal the girl I love from me ?
Were n't there enough girl where you come from to choose among ?
I hate you .
I 'd kill you -- '' `` Selby , stop !
You do n't know what you be say .
If I have wrong you , I swear I do it unintentionally .
I love Stella from the first -- who could help it ?
But I think she be virtually bind to you , and I do not try to win her away .
You do n't know what it cost me to remain passive .
I know that you have always distrust me , but hitherto you have have no reason to .
But today I find that she be free -- that she do not care for you !
And I find -- or think I find -- that there be a chance for me .
I take it .
I forget everything else then . ''
`` So she love you ? ''
say Benjamin dully .
`` Yes , '' say Braithwaite softly .
Benjamin turn on him with sudden passion .
`` I hate you -- and I be the most miserable wretch alive , but if she be happy , it be no matter about me .
You 've win easily what I 've slave and toil all my life for .
You wo n't value it a I 'd have do -- but if you make her happy , nothing else matter .
I 've only one favour to ask of you .
Do n't let her come to the shore after this .
I ca n't stand it . ''
August throbbed and burn itself out .
Affairs along shore continue a usual .
Benjamin shut his sorrow up in himself and give no outward sign of suffering .
As if to mock him , the season be one of phenomenal prosperity ; it be a `` mackerel year '' to be date from .
He work hard and unceasingly , spar himself in no way .
Braithwaite seldom come to the shore now .
Mary Stella never .
Mr. Murray have try to speak of the matter , but Benjamin would not let him .
`` It 's best that nothing be say , '' he tell him with simple dignity .
He be so calm that Mr. Murray think he do not care greatly , and be glad of it .
The old man regret the turn of affair .
Braithwaite would take his daughter far away from him , a his sister have be take , and he love Benjamin a his own son .
One afternoon Benjamin stood by his boat and look anxiously at sea and sky .
The French Canadians be eager to go out , for the other boat be catch .
`` I do n't know about it , '' say Benjamin doubtfully .
`` I do n't half like the look of thing .
I believe we 're in for a squall before long .
It be just such a day three year ago when that terrible squall come up that Joe Otway get drown in . ''
The sky be dun and smoky , the glassy water be copper-hued , the air be heavy and breathless .
The sea purr upon the shore , lap it caressingly like some huge feline creature bid it time to seize and crunch it victim .
`` I reckon I 'll try it , '' say Benjamin after a final scrutiny .
`` If a squall do come up , we 'll have to run for the shore mighty quick , that 's all . ''
They launch the boat speedily ; a there be no wind , they have to row .
As they pull out , Braithwaite and Leon come down the road and begin to launch the Murray boat .
`` If dem two git catch in a squall dey 'll hav a tam , '' grin Mosey Louis .
`` Dat Leon , he do n't know de fust ting ` bout a boat , no more dan a cat ! ''
Benjamin come to anchor close in , but Braithwaite and Leon keep on until they be far out than any other boat .
`` Reckon dey 's after cod , '' suggest Xavier .
The mackerel bit well , but Benjamin keep a close watch on the sky .
Suddenly he saw a dark streak advance over the water from the northwest .
He wheel around .
`` Boys , the squall 's come !
Up with the anchor -- quick ! ''
`` Dere 's plenty tam , '' grumble Mosey Louis , who hat to leave the fish .
`` None of de oder boat be goin ' in yit . ''
The squall strike the boat a he speak .
She lurch and stagger .
The water be toss choppily .
There be a sudden commotion all through the fleet and sail go rapidly up .
Mosey Louis turn pale and scramble about without delay .
Benjamin be halfway to the shore before the sail go up in the Murray boat .
`` Don ' know what dey 're tinkin ' of , '' growl Mosey Louis .
`` Dey 'll be drown fust ting ! ''
Benjamin look back anxiously .
Every boat be make for the shore .
The gale be steadily increase .
He have his doubt about make a landing himself , and Braithwaite would be twenty minute later .
`` But it be n't my lookout , '' he mutter .
Benjamin have land and be haul up his boat when Mr. Murray come run down the road .
`` Frank ? ''
he gasp .
`` Him and Leon go out , the foolish boy !
They neither of them know anything about a time like this . ''
`` I guess they 'll be all right , '' say Benjamin reassuringly .
`` They be late starting .
They may find it rather hard to land . ''
The other boat have all get in with more or less difficulty .
The Murray boat alone be out .
Men come scurry along the shore in frightened group of two and three .
The boat come swiftly in before the wind .
Mr. Murray be half beside himself .
`` It 'll be all right , sir , '' say one of the men .
`` If they ca n't land here , they can beach her on the sandshore . ''
`` If they only know enough to do that , '' wail the old man .
`` But they do n't -- they 'll come right on to the rock . ''
`` Why do n't they low their sail ? ''
say another .
`` They will upset if they do n't . ''
`` They 're lower it now , '' say Benjamin .
The boat be now about 300 yard from the shore .
The sail do not go all the way down -- it seem to be stick .
`` Good God , what 's wrong ? ''
exclaim Mr. Murray .
As he speak , the boat capsize .
A yell of horror rise I from the beach .
Mr. Murray spring toward Benjamin 's boat , but one of the men hold him back .
`` You ca n't do it , sir .
I do n't know that anybody can . ''
Braithwaite and Leon be cling to the boat .
Benjamin Selby , stand in the background , his lip set , his hand clench , be fight the hard battle of his life .
He know that he alone , out of all the men there , possess the necessary skill and nerve to reach the boat if she could be reach at all .
There be a bare chance and a great risk .
This man whom he hat be drown before his eye .
Let him drown , then !
Why should he risk -- ay , and perchance lose -- his life for his enemy ?
No one could blame him for refuse -- and if Braithwaite be out of the way , Mary Stella might yet be his !
The temptation and victory pass in a few brief second .
He step forward , cool and self-possessed .
`` I 'm go out .
I want one man with me .
No one with child or wife .
Who 'll go ? ''
`` I will , '' shout Mosey Louis .
`` I haf some spat wid dat Leon , but I not lak to see him drown for all dat ! ''
Benjamin offer no objection .
The French Canadian 's arm be strong and he possess skill and experience .
Mr. Murray catch Benjamin 's arm .
`` No , no , Benjamin -- not you -- I ca n't see both my boy drown . ''
Benjamin gently loose the old man 's hold .
`` It 's for Mary Stella 's sake , '' he say hoarsely .
`` If I do n't come back , tell her that . ''
They launch the large dory with difficulty and pull out into the surf .
Benjamin do not lose his nerve .
His quick arm , his steady eye do not fail .
A dozen time the wild-eyed watcher think the boat be doom , but as often she right triumphantly .
At last the drown men be reach and somehow or other haul on board Benjamin 's craft .
It be easy to come back , for they beach the boat on the sand .
With a wild cheer the men on the shore rush into the surf and help to carry the half-unconscious Braithwaite and Leon ashore and up to the Murray fish-house .
Benjamin go home before anyone know he have go .
Mosey Louis be leave behind to reap the honour ; he sit in a circle of admire lad and give all the detail of the rescue .
`` Dat Leon , he not tink he know so much now ! ''
he say .
Braithwaite come to the shore next day somewhat pale and shaky .
He go straight to Benjamin and hold out his hand .
`` Thank you , '' he say simply .
Benjamin bent low over his work .
`` You need n't thank me , '' he say gruffly .
`` I want to let you drown .
But I go out for Mary Stella 's sake .
Tell me one thing -- I could n't bring myself to ask it of anyone else .
When be you to be -- marry ? ''
`` The 12th of September . ''
Benjamin do not wince .
He turn away and look out across the sea for a few moment .
The last agony of his great renunciation be upon him .
Then he turn and hold out his hand .
`` For her sake , '' he say earnestly .
Frank Braithwaite put his slender white hand into the fisherman 's hard brown palm .
There be tear in both men 's eye .
They part in silence .
On the morning of the 12th of September Benjamin Selby go out to the fishing ground a usual .
The catch be good , although the season be almost over .
In the afternoon the French Canadians go to sleep .
Benjamin intend to row down the shore for salt .
He stand by his dory , ready to start , but he seem to be wait for something .
At last it come : a faint train whistle blew , a puff of white smoke float across a distant gap in the sandhills .
Mary Stella be go at last -- go forever from his life .
The honest blue eye look out over the sea do not falter ; bravely he face his desolate future .
The white gull soar over the water , little swish ripple lap on the sand , and through all the gentle , dreamy noise of the shore come the soft , unceasing murmur of the gulf .
Millicent 's Double -LSB- Illustration : '' ` NONSENSE , ' SAID MILLICENT , POINTING TO THEIR REFLECTED FACES '' -RSB- When Millicent Moore and Worth Gordon meet each other on the first day of the term in the entrance hall of the Kinglake High School , both girl stop short , startle .
Millicent Moore have never see Worth Gordon before , but Worth Gordon 's face she have see every day of her life , look at her out of her own mirror !
They be total stranger , but when two girl look enough alike to be twin , it be not necessary to stand on ceremony .
After the first blank stare of amazement , both laugh outright .
Millicent hold out her hand .
`` We ought to know each other right away , '' she say frankly .
`` My name be Millicent Moore , and yours be -- ? ''
`` Worth Gordon , '' respond Worth , take the proffered hand with dance eye .
`` You actually frighten me when you come around that corner .
For a moment I have an uncanny feeling that I be a disembodied spirit look at my own outward shape .
I know now what it feel like to have a twin . ''
`` Is n't it odd that we should look so much alike ? ''
say Millicent .
`` Do you suppose we can be any relation ?
I never heard of any relation name Gordon . ''
Worth shake her head .
`` I 'm quite sure we 're not , '' she say .
`` I have n't any relative except my father 's stepsister with whom I 've live ever since the death of my parent when I be a baby . ''
`` Well , you 'll really have to count me a a relative after this , '' laugh Millicent .
`` I 'm sure a girl who look as much like you a I do must be at least as much relation a a stepaunt . ''
From that moment they be firm friend , and their friendship be still far cement by the fact that Worth find it necessary to change her boarding-house and become Millicent 's roommate .
Their odd likeness be the wonder of the school and occasion no end of amuse mistake , for all the student find it hard to distinguish between them .
Seen apart it be impossible to tell which be which except by their clothes and style of hairdressing .
Seen together there be , of course , many minor difference which serve to distinguish them .
Both girl be slight , with dark-brown hair , blue eye and fair complexion .
But Millicent have more colour than Worth .
Even in repose , Millicent 's face express mirth and fun ; when Worth be not laugh or talk , her face be rather serious .
Worth 's eye be darker , and her nose in profile slightly more aquiline .
But still , the resemblance between them be very striking .
In disposition they be also very similar .
Both be merry , fun-loving girl , fond of lark and joke .
Millicent be the more heedless , but both be impulsive and too apt to do or say anything that come into their head without count the cost .
One late October evening Millicent come in , her cheek crimson after her walk in the keen autumn air , and toss two letter on the study table .
`` It 's a perfect evening , Worth .
We have the jolly tramp .
You should have come with u instead of stay in mop over your book . ''
Worth smile ruefully .
`` I simply have to prepare those problem for tomorrow , '' she say .
`` You see , Millie dear , there be a big difference between u in some thing at least .
I 'm poor .
I simply have to pass my exam and get a teacher 's licence .
So I ca n't afford to take any chance .
You 're just attend high school for the sake of education alone , so you do n't really have to grind a I do . ''
`` I 'd like to do pretty well in the exam , though , for Dad 's sake , '' answer Millicent , throw aside her wrap .
`` But I do n't mean to kill myself study , just the same .
Time enough for that when exam draw nigh .
They 're comfortably far off yet .
But I 'm in a bit of a predicament , Worth , and I do n't know what to do .
Here be two invitation for Saturday afternoon and I simply must accept them both .
Now , how can I do it ?
You 're a marvel at mathematics -- so work out that problem for me .
`` See , here 's a note from Mrs. Kirby invite me to tea at Beechwood .
She call on me soon after the term open and invite me to tea the next week .
But I have another engagement for that afternoon , so could n't go .
Mr. Kirby be a business friend of Dad 's , and they be very nice people .
The other invitation be to the annual autumn picnic of the Alpha Gammas .
Now , Worth Gordon , I simply must go to that .
I would n't miss it for anything .
But I do n't want to offend Mrs. Kirby , and I 'm afraid I shall if I plead another engagement a second time .
Mother will be fearfully annoy at me in that case .
Dear me , I wish there be two of me , one to go to the Alpha Gammas and one to Beechwood -- Worth Gordon ! ''
`` What 's the matter ? ''
`` There be two of me !
What 's the use of a double if not for a quandary like this !
Worth , you must go to tea at Beechwood Saturday afternoon in my place .
They 'll think you be my very self .
They 'll never know the difference .
Go and keep my place warm for me , there 's a dear . ''
`` Impossible , '' cry Worth .
`` I 'd never dare !
They 'd know there be something wrong . ''
`` They would n't -- they could n't .
None of the Kirbys have ever see me except Mrs. Kirby , and she only for a few minute one evening at dusk .
They do n't know I have a double and they ca n't possibly suspect .
Do go , Worth .
Why , it 'll be a regular lark , the best little joke ever !
And you 'll oblige me immensely besides .
Worthie , please . ''
Worth do not consent all at once ; but the idea rather appeal to her for it daring and excitement .
It would be a lark -- just at that time Worth do not see it in any other light .
Besides , she want to oblige Millicent , who coax vehemently .
Finally , Worth yield and promise Millicent that she would go to Beechwood in her place .
`` You darling ! ''
say Millicent emphatically , fly to her table to write acceptance of both invitation .
Saturday afternoon Worth get ready to keep Millicent 's engagement .
`` Suppose I be find out and expel from Beechwood in disgrace , '' she suggest laughingly , a she arrange her lace bertha before the glass .
`` Nonsense , '' say Millicent , point to their reflected face .
`` The Kirbys can never suspect .
Why , if it be n't for the hair and the dress , I 'd hardly know myself which of those reflection belong to which . ''
`` What if they begin ask me about the welfare of the various member of your family ? ''
`` They wo n't ask any but the most superficial question .
We 're not intimate enough for anything else .
I 've coach you pretty thoroughly , and I think you 'll get on all right . ''
Worth 's courage carry her successfully through the ordeal of arrive at Beechwood and meet Mrs. Kirby .
She be unsuspectingly accept a Millicent Moore , and find her impersonation of that young lady not at all difficult .
No dangerous subject of conversation be introduce and nothing personal be say until Mr. Kirby come in .
He look so scrutinizingly at Worth a he shake hand with her that the latter felt her heart beat very fast .
Did he suspect ?
`` Upon my word , Miss Moore , '' he say genially , `` you give me quite a start at first .
You be very like what a half-sister of mine use to be when a girl long ago .
Of course the resemblance must be quite accidental . ''
`` Of course , '' say Worth , without any very clear sense of what she be say .
Her face be uncomfortably flush and she be glad when tea be announce .
As nothing more of an embarrassing nature be say , Worth soon recover her self-possession and be able to enter into the conversation .
She like the Kirbys ; still , under her enjoyment , she be conscious of a strange , disagreeable feeling that deepen a the evening wore on .
It be not fear -- she be not at all afraid of betray herself now .
It have even be easy than she have expect .
Then what be it ?
Suddenly Worth flush again .
She know now -- it be shame .
She be a guest in that house a an impostor !
What she have do seem no longer a mere joke .
What would her host and hostess say if they know ?
That they would never know make no difference .
She herself could not forget it , and her realization of the baseness of the deception grow strong under Mrs. Kirby 's cordial kindness .
Worth never forget that evening .
She compel herself to chat as brightly a possible , but under it all be that miserable consciousness of falsehood , deepen every instant .
She be thankful when the time come to leave .
`` You must come up often , Miss Moore , '' say Mrs. Kirby kindly .
`` Look upon Beechwood a a second home while you be in Kinglake .
We have no daughter of our own , so we make a hobby of cultivate other people 's . ''
When Millicent return home from the Alpha Gamma outing , she find Worth in their room , look soberly at the mirror .
Something in her chum 's expression alarm her .
`` Worth , what be it ?
Did they suspect ? ''
`` No , '' say Worth slowly .
`` They never suspect .
They think I be what I pretend to be -- Millicent Moore .
But , but , I wish I 'd never go to Beechwood , Millie .
It be n't right .
It be mean and wrong .
It be act a lie .
I ca n't tell you how ashamed I felt when I realize that . ''
`` Nonsense , '' say Millicent , look rather sober , nevertheless .
`` No harm be do .
It 's only a good joke , Worth . ''
`` Yes , harm have be do .
I 've do harm to myself , for one thing .
I 've lose my self-respect .
I do n't blame you , Millie .
It 's all my own fault .
I 've do a dishonourable thing , dishonourable . ''
Millicent sigh .
`` The Alpha Gamma picnic be horribly slow , '' she say .
`` I do n't enjoy myself a bit .
I wish I have go to Beechwood .
I do n't think about it 's be a practical falsehood before .
I suppose it be .
And I 've always pride myself on my strict truthfulness !
It be n't your fault , Worth !
It be mine .
But it ca n't be undone now . ''
`` No , it ca n't be undone , '' say Worth slowly , `` but it might be confess .
We might tell Mrs. Kirby the truth and ask her to forgive u . ''
`` I could n't do such a thing , '' cry Millicent .
`` It be n't to be think of ! ''
Nevertheless , Millicent do think of it several time that night and all through the following Sunday .
She could n't help thinking of it .
A dishonourable trick !
That think stung Millicent .
Monday even Millicent fling down the book from which she be vainly try to study .
`` Worthie , it 's no use .
You be right .
There 's nothing to do but go and ` fess up to Mrs. Kirby .
I ca n't respect Millicent Moore again until I do .
I 'm go right up now . ''
`` I 'll go with you , '' say Worth quietly .
`` I be equally to blame and I must take my share of the humiliation . ''
When the girl reach Beechwood , they be show into the library where the family be sit .
Mrs. Kirby come smilingly forward to greet Millicent when her eye fell upon Worth .
`` Why !
why ! ''
she say .
`` I do n't know you have a twin sister , Miss Moore . ''
`` Neither I have , '' say Millicent , laugh nervously .
`` This be my chum , Worth Gordon , but she be no relation whatever . ''
At the mention of Worth 's name , Mr. Kirby start slightly , but nobody notice it .
Millicent go on in a trembling voice .
`` We 've come up to confess something , Mrs. Kirby .
I 'm sure you 'll think it dreadful , but we do n't mean any harm .
We just do n't realize , until afterwards . ''
Then Millicent , with burning cheek , tell the whole story and ask to be forgive .
`` I , too , must apologize , '' say Worth , when Millicent have finish .
`` Can you pardon me , Mrs. Kirby ? ''
Mrs. Kirby have listen in amazed silence , but now she laugh .
`` Certainly , '' she say kindly .
`` I do n't suppose it be altogether right for you girls to play such a trick on anybody .
But I can make allowance for schoolgirl prank .
I be a school girl once myself , and far from a model one .
You have atone for your mistake by come so frankly and confess , and now we 'll forget all about it .
I think you have learn your lesson .
Both of you must just sit down and spend the evening with u .
Dear me , but you be bewilderingly alike ! ''
`` I 've something I want to say , '' interpose Mr. Kirby suddenly .
`` You say your name be Worth Gordon , '' he add , turn to Worth .
`` May I ask what your mother 's name be ? ''
`` Worth Mowbray , '' answer Worth wonderingly .
`` I be sure of it , '' say Mr. Kirby triumphantly , `` when I hear Miss Moore mention your name .
Your mother be my half-sister , and you be my niece . ''
Everybody exclaim and for a few moment they all talk and question together .
Then Mr. Kirby explain fully .
`` I be bear on a farm up-country .
My mother be a widow when she marry my father , and she have one daughter , Worth Mowbray , five year old than myself .
When I be three year old , my mother die .
Worth go to live with our mother 's only living relative , an aunt .
My father and I remove to another section of the country .
He , too , die soon after , and I be bring up with an uncle 's family .
My sister come to see me once when she be a girl of seventeen and , a I remember her , very like you be now .
I never saw her again and eventually lose trace of her .
Many year later I endeavour to find out her whereabouts .
Our aunt be dead , and the people in the village where she have live inform me that my sister be also dead .
She have marry a man name Gordon and have go away , both she and her husband have die , and I be inform that they leave no child , so I make no further inquiry .
There be no doubt that you be her daughter .
Well , well , this be a pleasant surprise , to find a little niece in this fashion ! ''
It be a pleasant surprise to Worth , too , who have think herself all alone in the world and have felt her loneliness keenly .
They have a wonderful evening , talk and question and explain .
Mr. Kirby declare that Worth must come and live with them .
`` We have no daughter , '' he say .
`` You must come to u in the place of one , Worth . ''
Mrs. Kirby second this with a cordiality that win Worth 's affection at once .
The girl felt almost bewilder by her happiness .
`` I feel a if I be in a dream , '' she say to Millicent a they walk to their boarding-house .
`` It 's really all too wonderful to grasp at once .
You do n't know , Millie , how lonely I 've felt often under all my nonsense and fun .
Aunt Delia be kind to me , but she be really no relation , she have a large family of her own , and I have always felt that she look upon me a a rather inconvenient duty .
But now I 'm so happy ! ''
`` I 'm so glad for you , Worth , '' say Millicent warmly , `` although your gain will certainly be my loss , for I shall miss my roommate terribly when she go to live at Beechwood .
Has n't it all turn out strangely ?
If you have never go to Beechwood in my place , this would never have happen . ''
`` Say rather that if we have n't go to confess our fault , it would never have happen , '' say Worth gently .
`` I 'm very , very glad that I have find Uncle George and such a love welcome to his home .
But I 'm gladder still that I 've get my self-respect back .
I feel that I can look Worth Gordon in the face again . ''
`` I 've learn a wholesome lesson , too , '' admit Millicent .
The Blue North Room `` This , '' say Sara , lay Aunt Josephina 's letter down on the kitchen table with such energy that in anybody but Sara it must have be say she throw it down , `` this be positively the last straw !
I have endure all the rest .
I have give up my chance of a musical education , when Aunt Nan offer it , that I might stay home and help Willard pay the mortgage off -- if it do n't pay u off first -- and I have , which be much hard , accept the fact that we ca n't possibly afford to send Ray to the Valley Academy , even if I wear the same hat and coat for four winter .
I do not grumble when Uncle Joel come here to live because he want to be ` near his dear nephew 's child . '
I felt it my Christian duty to look pleasant when we have to give Cousin Caroline a home to save her from the poorhouse .
But my endurance and philosophy , and bad of all , my furniture , have reach a limit .
I can not have Aunt Josephina come here to spend the winter , because I have no room to put her in . ''
`` Hello , Sally , what 's the matter ? ''
ask Ray , come in with a book .
It would have be hard to catch Ray without a book ; he generally take one even to bed with him .
Ray have a headful of brain , and Sara think it be a burning shame that there seem to be no chance for his go to college .
`` You look all rumple up in your conscience , beloved si , '' the boy go on , chaffingly .
`` My conscience be all right , '' say Sara severely .
`` It 's bad than that .
If you please , here 's a letter from Aunt Josephina !
She write that she be very lonesome .
Her son have go to South America , and wo n't be back until spring , and she want to come and spend the winter with u . ''
`` Well , why not ? ''
ask Ray serenely .
Nothing ever bother Ray .
`` The more the merrier . ''
`` Ray Sheldon !
Where be we to put her ?
We have no spare room , a you well know . ''
`` Ca n't she room with Cousin Caroline ? ''
`` Cousin Caroline 's room be too small for two .
It 's full to overflow with her belonging now , and Aunt Josephina will bring two trunk at least .
Try again , bright boy . ''
`` What 's the matter with the blue north room ? ''
`` There be nothing the matter with it -- oh , nothing at all !
We could put Aunt Josephina there , but where will she sleep ?
Where will she wash her face ?
Will it not seem slightly inhospitable to invite her to sit on a bare floor ?
Have you forget that there be n't a stick of furniture in the blue north room and , bad still , that we have n't a spare cent to buy any , not even the cheap kind ? ''
`` I 'll give it up , '' say Ray .
`` I might have a try at square the circle if you ask me , but the solution of the Aunt Josephina problem be beyond me . ''
`` The solution be simply that we must write to Aunt Josephina , politely but firmly , that we ca n't have her come , owe to lack of accommodation .
You must write the letter , Ray .
Make it as polite a you can , but above all make it firm . ''
`` Oh , but Sally , dear , '' protest Ray , who do n't relish have to write such a letter , `` be n't this rather hasty , rather inhospitable ?
Poor Aunt Josephina must really be rather lonely , and it 's only natural she should want to visit her relation . ''
`` We 're not her relation , '' cry Sara .
`` We 're not a speck of relation really .
She 's only the half-sister of Mother 's half-brother .
That sound nice and relationy , do n't it ?
And she 's fussy and interfering , and she will fight with Cousin Caroline , everybody fight with Cousin Caroline -- '' `` Except Sara , '' interrupt Ray , but Sara go on with a rush , `` And we wo n't have a minute 's peace all winter .
Anyhow , where could we put her even if we want her to come ?
No , we ca n't have her ! ''
`` Mother be always very fond of Aunt Josephina , '' say Ray reflectively .
Sara have her lip open , all ready to answer whatever Ray might say , but she shut them suddenly and the boy go on .
`` Aunt Josephina think a lot of Mother , too .
She use to say she know there be always a welcome for her at Maple Hollow .
It do seem a pity , Sally dear , for your mother 's daughter to send word to Aunt Josephina , per my mother 's son , that there be n't room for her any longer at Maple Hollow . ''
`` I shall leave it to Willard , '' say Sara abruptly .
`` If he say to let her come , come she shall , even if Dorothy and I have to camp in the barn . ''
`` I 'm go to have a prowl around the garret , '' say Ray , apropos of nothing .
`` And I shall get the tea ready , '' answer Sara briskly .
`` Dorothy will be home from school very soon , and I hear Uncle Joel stirring .
Willard wo n't be back till dark , so there be no use wait for him . ''
At twilight Sara decide to walk up the lane and meet Willard .
She always like to meet him thus when he have be away for a whole day .
Sara think there be nobody in the world a good and dear a Willard .
It be a dull grey November twilight ; the maple in the hollow be all leafless , and the hawthorn hedge along the lane be sere and frost ; a little snow have fall in the afternoon , and lay in broad patch on the brown field .
The world look very dull and dispirit , and Sara sigh .
She could not help thinking of the dark side of thing just then .
`` Everything be wrong , '' say poor Sara dolefully .
`` Willard have to work like a slave , and yet with all his effort he can barely pay the interest on the mortgage .
And Ray ought to go to college .
But I do n't see how we can ever manage .
To be sure , he wo n't be ready until next fall , but we wo n't have the money then any more than now .
It would take every bit of a hundred and fifty dollar to fit him out with book and clothes , and pay for board and tuition at the academy .
If he could just have a year there he could teach and earn his own way through college .
But we might as well hope for the moon a one hundred and fifty dollar . ''
Sara sigh again .
She be only eighteen , but she felt very old .
Willard be nineteen , and Willard have never have a chance to be young .
His father have die when he be twelve , and he have run the farm since then , he and Sara together indeed , for Sara be a capital planner and manager and worker .
The little mother have die two year ago , and the household care have all fall on Sara 's shoulder since .
Sometimes , a now , they press very heavily , but a talk with Willard always hearten her up .
Willard have his blue spell too , but Sara think it a special Providence that their blue turn never come together .
When one get downhearted the other be always ready to do the cheer up .
Sara be glad to hear Willard whistle when he drive into the lane ; it be a sign he be in good spirit .
He pull up , and Sara climb into the wagon .
`` Things go all right today , Sally ? ''
he ask cheerfully .
`` There be a letter from Aunt Josephina , '' answer Sara , anxious to get the bad over , `` and she want to come to Maple Hollow for the winter .
I think at first we just could n't have her , but I decide to leave it to you . ''
`` Well , we 've get a pretty good houseful already , '' say Willard thoughtfully .
`` But I suppose if Aunt Josephina want to come we 'd well have her .
I always like Aunt Josephina , and so do Mother , you know . ''
`` I do n't know where we can put her .
We have n't any spare room , Will . ''
`` Ray and I can sleep in the kitchen loft .
You and Dolly take our room , and let Aunt Josephina take yours . ''
`` The kitchen loft be n't really fit to sleep in , '' say Sara pessimistically .
`` It 's awfully cold , and there 're mouse and rat -- ugh !
You and Ray will get nibble in spot .
But it 's the only thing to do if we must have Aunt Josephina .
I 'll get Ray to write to her tomorrow .
I could n't put enough cordiality into the letter if I write it myself . ''
Ray come in while Willard be at supper .
There be cobweb all over him from his head to his heel .
`` I 've solve the Aunt J. problem , '' he announce cheerfully .
`` We will furnish the blue north room . ''
`` With what ? ''
ask Sara disbelievingly .
`` I 've be poke about in the garret and in the carriage house loft , '' say Ray , `` and I 've find furniture galore .
It 's very old and cobwebby -- witness my appearance -- and very much in want of scrub and a few nail .
But it will do . ''
`` I 'd forget about those old thing , '' say Sara slowly .
`` They 've never be use since I can remember , and long before .
They be discard before Mother come here .
But I think they be all break and quite useless . ''
`` Not at all .
I believe we can furbish them up sufficiently to make the room habitable .
It will be rather old-fashioned , but then it 's Hobson 's choice .
There be the piece of an old bed out in the loft , and they can be put together .
There 's an old corner cupboard out there too , with leaded glass door , two old solid wooden armchair , and a funny old chest of drawer with a write desk in place of the top drawer , all full of yellow old letter and trash .
I find it under a pile of old carpet .
Then there 's a washstand , and also a towel rack up in the garret , and the funny old table with three claw leg , and a tippy top .
One leg be break off , but I hunt around and find it , and I guess we can fix it on .
And there be two more old chair and a queer little oval table with a cracked swing mirror on it . ''
`` I have it , '' exclaim Sara , with a burst of inspiration , `` let u fix up a real old-fashioned room for Aunt Josephina .
It wo n't do to put anything modern with those old thing .
One would kill the other .
I 'll put Mother 's rag carpet down in it , and the four braid mat Grandma Sheldon give me , and the old brass candlestick and the Irish chain coverlet .
Oh , I believe it will be lot of fun . ''
It be .
For a week the Sheldons hammer and glue and wash and consult .
The north room be already paper with a blue paper of an old-fashioned stripe-and-diamond pattern .
The rag carpet be put down , and the braided rug lay on it .
The old bedstead be set up in one corner and , have be well clean and polish with beeswax and turpentine , be really a handsome piece of furniture .
On the washstand Sara place a quaint old basin and ewer which have be Grandma Sheldon 's .
Ray have fix up the table as good a new ; Sara have polish the brass claw , and on the table she put the brass tray , two candlestick , and snuffer which have be long stow away in the kitchen loft .
The dressing table and swing mirror , with it scroll frame of tarnished gilt , be in the window corner , and opposite it be the old chest of drawer .
The cupboard be set up in a corner , and beside it stand the spinning-wheel from the kitchen loft .
The big grandfather clock , which have always stand in the hall below be carry up , and two platter of blue willow-ware be set up over the mantel .
Above them be hang the faded sampler that Grandma Sheldon have work ninety year ago when she be a little girl .
`` Do you know , '' say Sara , when they stand in the middle of the room and survey the result , `` I expect to have a good laugh over this , but it do n't look funny after all .
The thing all seem to suit each other , some way , and they look good , do n't they ?
I mean they look real , clear through .
I believe that table and those drawer be solid mahogany .
And look at the carve on those bedpost .
Cleaning them have make such a difference .
I do hope Aunt Josephina wo n't mind their be so old . ''
Aunt Josephina do n't .
She be very philosophical about it when Sara explain that Cousin Caroline have the spare room , and the blue north room be all they have leave .
`` Oh , it will be all right , '' she say , plainly determine to make the best of thing .
`` Those old thing be think a lot of now , anyhow .
I ca n't say I fancy them much myself -- I like something a little brighter .
But the rich folk have go crack over them .
I know a woman in Boston that 's get her whole house furnish with old truck , and as soon a she hear of any old furniture anywhere she 's not content till she 's get it .
She say it 's her hobby , and she spend a heap on it .
She 'd be in rapture if she saw this old room of yours , Sary . ''
`` Do you mean , '' say Sara slowly , `` that there be people who would buy old thing like these ? ''
`` Yes , and pay more for them than would buy a real nice set with a marble-topped burey .
You may well say there 's lot of fool in the world , Sary . ''
Sara be not say or think any such thing .
It be a new idea to her that any value be attach to old furniture , for Sara live very much out of the world of fad and collector .
But she do not forget what Aunt Josephina have say .
The winter pass away .
Aunt Josephina plainly enjoy her visit , whatever the Sheldons felt about it .
In March her son return , and Aunt Josephina go home to him .
Before she leave , Sara ask her for the address of the woman whose hobby be old furniture , and the very afternoon after Aunt Josephina have go Sara write and mail a letter .
For a week she look so mysterious that Willard and Ray could not guess what she be plot .
At the end of that time Mrs. Stanton come .
Mrs. Stanton always declare afterwards that the mere sight of that blue north room give her rapture .
Such a find !
Such a discovery !
A bedstead with carved post , a claw-footed table , real old willow-ware plate with the bird ' bill meeting !
Here be luck , if you like !
When Willard and Ray come home to tea Sara be sit on the stair count her wealth .
`` Sally , where do you discover all that long-lost treasure ? ''
demanded Ray .
`` Mrs. Stanton of Boston be here today , '' say Sara , enjoy the moment of revelation hugely .
`` She make a hobby of collect old furniture .
I sell her every blessed thing in the blue north room except Mother 's carpet and Grandma 's mat and sampler .
She want those too , but I could n't part with them .
She buy everything else and , '' Sara lift her hand , full of bill , dramatically , `` here be two hundred and fifty dollar to take you to the Valley Academy next fall , Ray . ''
`` It would n't be fair to take it for that , '' say Ray , flushing .
`` You and Will -- '' `` Will and I say you must take it , '' say Sara .
`` Do n't we , Will ?
There be nothing we want so much a to give you a college start .
It be an enormous burden off my mind to think it be so nicely provide for .
Besides , most of those old thing be yours by the right of rediscovery , and you vote first of all to have Aunt Josephina come . ''
`` You must take it , of course , Ray , '' say Willard .
`` Nothing else would give Sara and me so much pleasure .
A blessing on Aunt Josephina . ''
`` Amen , '' say Sara and Ray .
The Christmas Surprise at Enderly Road `` Phil , I 'm get fearfully hungry .
When be we go to strike civilization ? ''
The speaker be my chum , Frank Ward .
We be home from our academy for the Christmas holiday and have be amuse ourselves on this sunshiny December afternoon by a tramp through the `` back land , '' a the barren that sweep away south behind the village be call .
They be grow over with scrub maple and spruce , and be quite pathless save for meander sheep track that cross and recrossed , but lead apparently nowhere .
Frank and I do not know exactly where we be , but the back land be not so extensive but that we would come out somewhere if we keep on .
It be get late and we wish to go home .
`` I have an idea that we ought to strike civilization somewhere up the Enderly Road pretty soon , '' I answer .
`` Do you call that civilization ? ''
say Frank , with a laugh .
No Blackburn Hill boy be ever know to miss an opportunity of fling a slur at Enderly Road , even if no Enderly Roader be by to feel the sting .
Enderly Road be a miserable little settlement straggle back from Blackburn Hill .
It be a forsaken look place , and the people , a a rule , be poor and shiftless .
Between Blackburn Hill and Enderly Road very little social intercourse exist and , a the Road people resent what they call the pride of Blackburn Hill , there be a good deal of bad feeling between the two district .
Presently Frank and I come out on the Enderly Road .
We sit on the fence a few minute to rest and discuss our route home .
`` If we go by the road it 's three mile , '' say Frank .
`` Is n't there a short cut ? ''
`` There ought to be one by the wood-lane that come out by Jacob Hart 's , '' I answer , `` but I do n't know where to strike it . ''
`` Here be someone come now ; we 'll inquire , '' say Frank , look up the curve of the hard-frozen road .
The `` someone '' be a little girl of about ten year old , who be trot along with a basketful of school book on her arm .
She be a pale , pinch little thing , and her jacket and red hood seem very old and thin .
`` Hello , missy , '' I say , a she come up , and then I stop , for I saw she have be cry .
`` What be the matter ? ''
ask Frank , who be much more at ease with child than I be , and have always a warm spot in his heart for their small trouble .
`` Has your teacher keep you in for be naughty ? ''
The mite dash her little red knuckle across her eye and answer indignantly , `` No , indeed .
I stay after school with Minnie Lawler to sweep the floor . ''
`` And do you and Minnie quarrel , and be that why you be cry ? ''
ask Frank solemnly .
`` Minnie and I never quarrel .
I be cry because we ca n't have the school decorate on Monday for the examination , after all .
The Dickeys have go back on u ... after promising , too , '' and the tear begin to swell up in the blue eye again .
`` Very bad behaviour on the part of the Dickeys , '' comment Frank .
`` But ca n't you decorate the school without them ? ''
`` Why , of course not .
They be the only big boy in the school .
They say they would cut the bough , and bring a ladder tomorrow and help u nail the wreath up , and now they wo n't ... and everything be spoil ... and Miss Davis will be so disappointed . ''
By dint of question Frank soon find out the whole story .
The semi-annual public examination be to be hold on Monday afternoon , the day before Christmas .
Miss Davis have be drill her little flock for the occasion ; and a program of recitation , speech , and dialogue have be prepare .
Our small informant , whose name be Maggie Bates , together with Minnie Lawler and several other little girl , have conceive the idea that it would be a fine thing to decorate the schoolroom with green .
For this it be necessary to ask the help of the boy .
Boys be scarce at Enderly school , but the Dickeys , three in number , have promise to see that the thing be do .
`` And now they wo n't , '' sob Maggie .
`` Matt Dickey be mad at Miss Davis 'cause she stand him on the floor today for not learn his lesson , and he say he wo n't do a thing nor let any of the other boy help u .
Matt just make all the boy do a he say .
I feel dreadful bad , and so do Minnie . ''
`` Well , I would n't cry any more about it , '' say Frank consolingly .
`` Crying wo n't do any good , you know .
Can you tell u where to find the wood-lane that cut across to Blackburn Hill ? ''
Maggie could , and give u minute direction .
So , have thank her , we leave her to pursue her disconsolate way and betook ourselves homeward .
`` I would like to spoil Matt Dickey 's little game , '' say Frank .
`` He be evidently try to run thing at Enderly Road school and revenge himself on the teacher .
Let u put a spoke in his wheel and do Maggie a good turn as well . ''
`` Agreed .
But how ? ''
Frank have a plan ready to hand and , when we reach home , we take his sister , Carrie and Mabel , into our confidence ; and the four of u work to such good purpose all the next day , which be Saturday , that by night everything be in readiness .
At dusk Frank and I set out for the Enderly Road , carry a basket , a small step-ladder , an unlit lantern , a hammer , and a box of tack .
It be dark when we reach the Enderly Road schoolhouse .
Fortunately , it be quite out of sight of any inhabited spot , be surround by wood .
Hence , mysterious light in it at strange hour would not be likely to attract attention .
The door be lock , but we easily get in by a window , light our lantern , and go to work .
The schoolroom be small , and the old-fashioned furniture bore mark of hard usage ; but everything be very snug , and the carefully swept floor and dust desk bore testimony to the neatness of our small friend Maggie and her chum Minnie .
Our basket be full of motto make from letter cut out of cardboard and cover with lissome spray of fir .
They be , moreover , adorn with gorgeous pink and red tissue rose , which Carrie and Mabel have contribute .
We have considerable trouble in get them tack up properly , but when we have succeed , and have furthermore surmount door , window , and blackboard with wreath of green , the little Enderly Road schoolroom be quite transform .
`` It look nice , '' say Frank in a tone of satisfaction .
`` Hope Maggie will like it . ''
We sweep up the litter we have make , and then scramble out of the window .
`` I 'd like to see Matt Dickey 's face when he come Monday morning , '' I laugh , a we strike into the back land .
`` I 'd like to see that midget of a Maggie 's , '' say Frank .
`` See here , Phil , let 's attend the examination Monday afternoon .
I 'd like to see our decoration in daylight . ''
We decide to do so , and also think of something else .
Snow fell all day Sunday , so that , on Monday morning , sleigh have to be bring out .
Frank and I drive down to the store and invest a considerable share of our spare cash in a varied assortment of knick-knacks .
After dinner we drive through to the Enderly Road schoolhouse , tie our horse in a quiet spot , and go in .
Our arrival create quite a sensation for , a a rule , Blackburn Hillites do not patronize Enderly Road function .
Miss Davis , the pale , tired-looking little teacher , be evidently pleased , and we be give seat of honour next to the minister on the platform .
Our decoration really look very well , and be far enhance by two large red geranium in full bloom which , it appear , Maggie have bring from home to adorn the teacher 's desk .
The side bench be line with Enderly Road parent , and all the pupil be in their best attire .
Our friend Maggie be there , of course , and she smile and nod towards the wreath when she catch our eye .
The examination be a decided success , and the program which follow be very creditable indeed .
Maggie and Minnie , in particular , cover themselves with glory , both in class and on the platform .
At it close , while the minister be make his speech , Frank slip out ; when the minister sit down the door open and Santa Claus himself , with big fur coat , ruddy mask , and long white beard , strode into the room with a huge basket on his arm , amid a chorus of surprised `` Ohs '' from old and young .
Wonderful thing come out of that basket .
There be some little present for every child there -- top , knife , and whistle for the boy , doll and ribbon for the girl , and a `` prize '' box of candy for everybody , all of which Santa Claus present with appropriate remark .
It be an exciting time , and it would have be hard to decide which be the most pleased , parent , pupil , or teacher .
In the confusion Santa Claus discreetly disappear , and school be dismiss .
Frank , have tuck his toggery away in the sleigh , be wait for u outside , and we be promptly pounce upon by Maggie and Minnie , whose long braid be already adorn with the pink silk ribbon which have be their gift . ''
You decorate the school , '' cry Maggie excitedly .
`` I know you do .
I tell Minnie it be you the minute I saw it . ''
`` You 're dream , child , '' say Frank .
`` Oh , no , I 'm not , '' retort Maggie shrewdly , `` and be n't Matt Dickey mad this morning !
Oh , it be such fun .
I think you be two real nice boy and so do Minnie -- do n't you Minnie ? ''
Minnie nod gravely .
Evidently Maggie do the talk in their partnership .
`` This have be a splendid examination , '' say Maggie , draw a long breath .
`` Real Christmassy , you know .
We never have such a good time before . ''
`` Well , it have pay , do n't you think ? ''
ask Frank , a we drive home .
`` Rather , '' I answer .
It do `` pay '' in other way than the mere pleasure of it .
There be always a good feeling between the Roaders and the Hillites thereafter .
The big brother of the little girl , to whom our Christmas surprise have be such a treat , think it worthwhile to bury the hatchet , and quarrel between the two village become thing of the past .
The Dissipation of Miss Ponsonby We have n't be very long in Glenboro before we manage to get acquaint with Miss Ponsonby .
It do not come about in the ordinary course of receive and return call , for Miss Ponsonby never call on anybody ; neither do we meet her at any of the Glenboro social function , for Miss Ponsonby never go anywhere except to church , and very seldom there .
Her father would n't let her .
No , it simply happen because her window be right across the alleyway from ours .
The Ponsonby house be next to u , on the right , and between u be only a fence , a hedge of box , and a sprawly acacia tree that shade Miss Ponsonby 's window , where she always sit sew -- patchwork , a I 'm alive -- when she be n't work around the house .
Patchwork seem to be Miss Ponsonby 's sole and only dissipation of any kind .
We guess her age to be forty-five at least , but we find out afterward that we be mistake .
She be only thirty-five .
She be tall and thin and pale , one of those drab-tinted person who look a if they have never felt a rosy emotion in their life .
She have any amount of silky , fawn-coloured hair , always comb straight back from her face , and pin in a big , tight bun just above her neck -- the last style in the world for any woman with Miss Ponsonby 's nose to adopt .
But then I doubt if Miss Ponsonby have any idea what her nose be really like .
I do n't believe she ever look at herself critically in a mirror in her life .
Her feature be rather nice , and her expression tamely sweet ; her eye be big , timid , china-blue orb that look a if she have be badly scar when she be little and have never get over it ; she never wear anything but black , and , to crown all , her first name be Alicia .
Miss Ponsonby sit and sew at her window for hour at a time , but she never look our way , partly , I suppose , from habit induce by modesty , since the former occupant of our room have be two gay young bachelor , whose name Jerry and I find out all over our window-panes with a diamond .
Jerry and I sit a great deal at ours , laugh and talk , but Miss Ponsonby never lift her head or eye .
Jerry could n't stand it long ; she declare it get on her nerve ; besides , she felt sorry to see a fellow creature waste so many precious moment of a fleeting lifetime at patchwork .
So one afternoon she hail Miss Ponsonby with a cheerful `` hello , '' and Miss Ponsonby actually look over and say `` good afternoon , '' as prim a an eighteen-hundred-and-forty fashion plate .
Then Jerry , whose name be Geraldine only in the family Bible , talk to her about the weather .
Jerry can talk interestingly about anything .
In five minute she have perform a miracle -- she have make Miss Ponsonby laugh .
In five minute more she be lean half out of the window show Miss Ponsonby a new , white , fluffy , frivolous , chiffony waist of hers , and Miss Ponsonby be lean halfway out of hers look at it eagerly .
At the end of a quarter of an hour they be exchange confidence about their favourite book .
Jerry be a confirmed Kiplingomaniac , but Miss Ponsonby adore Laura Jean Libbey .
She say sorrowfully she suppose she ought not to read novel at all since her father disapprove .
We find out later on that Mr. Ponsonby 's way of express disapproval be to burn any he get hold of , and storm at his daughter about them like the confirmed old crank he be .
Poor Miss Ponsonby have to keep her Laura Jeans lock up in her trunk , and it be n't often she get a new one .
From that day date our friendship with Miss Ponsonby , a curious friendship , only carry on from window to window .
We never saw Miss Ponsonby anywhere else ; we ask her to come over but she say her father do n't allow her to visit anybody .
Miss Ponsonby be one of those meek woman who be rule by whomsoever happens to be near them , and woe be unto them if that near happen to be a tyrant .
Her meekness fairly infuriate Jerry .
But we like Miss Ponsonby and we pity her .
She confide to u that she be very lonely and that she write poetry .
We never ask to see the poetry , although I think she would have like to show it .
But , a Jerry say , there be limit .
We tell Miss Ponsonby all about our dance and picnic and beau and pretty dress ; she be never tire of hearing of them ; we smuggle new library novel -- Jerry get our cook to buy them -- and box of chocolate , from our window to hers ; we sit there on moonlit night and commune with her while other girl down the street be entertain caller on their verandah ; we do everything we could for her except to call her Alicia , although she beg u to do so .
But it never come easily to our tongue ; we think she must have be bear and christen Miss Ponsonby ; `` Alicia '' be something her mother could only have dream about her .
We think we know all about Miss Ponsonby 's past ; but even pale , drab , china-blue woman can have their secret and keep them .
It be a full half year before we discover Miss Ponsonby 's .
* * * * * In October , Stephen Shaw come home from the west to visit his father and mother after an absence of fifteen year .
Jerry and I meet him at a party at his brother-in-law 's .
We know he be a bachelor of forty-five or so and have make heap of money in the lumber business , so we expect to find him short and round and bald , with bulgy blue eye and a double chin .
On the contrary , he be a tall , handsome man with clear-cut feature , laugh black eye like a boy 's , and iron-grey hair .
That iron-grey hair nearly finish Jerry ; she think there be nothing so distinguished and she have the escape of her life from fall in love with Stephen Shaw .
He be as gay a the young , dance splendidly , go everywhere , and take all the Glenboro girl about impartially .
It be rumour that he have come east to look for a wife but he do n't seem to be in any particular hurry to find her .
One evening he call on Jerry ; that be to say , he do ask for both of u , but within ten minute Jerry have him mew up in the cosy corner to the exclusion of all the rest of the world .
I felt that I be a huge crowd , so I obligingly decamp upstairs and sit down by my window to `` muse , '' a Miss Ponsonby would have say .
It be a glorious moonlight night , with just a hint of October frost in the air -- enough to give sparkle and tang .
After a few moment I become aware that Miss Ponsonby be also `` muse '' at her window in the shadow of the acacia tree .
In that dim light she look quite pretty .
It be suddenly borne in upon me for the first time that , when Miss Ponsonby be young , she must have be very pretty , with that delicate elusive fashion of beauty which fade so early if the life be not keep in it by love and tenderness .
It seem odd , somehow , to think of Miss Ponsonby a young and pretty .
She seem so essentially middle-aged and fade .
`` Lovely night , Miss Ponsonby , '' I say brilliantly .
`` A very beautiful night , dear Elizabeth , '' answer Miss Ponsonby in that tire little voice of hers that always seem as drab-coloured a the rest of her .
`` I 'm mopy , '' I say frankly .
`` Jerry have concentrate herself on Stephen Shaw for the evening and I 'm leave on the fringe of thing . ''
Miss Ponsonby do n't say anything for a few moment .
When she speak some strange and curious note have come into her voice , a if a chord , long unswept and silent , have be suddenly thrill by a passing hand .
`` Did I understand you to say that Geraldine be -- entertain Stephen Shaw ? ''
`` Yes .
He 's home from the west and he 's delightful , '' I reply .
`` All the Glenboro girl be quite crazy over him .
Jerry and I be as bad a the rest .
He be n't at all young but he 's very fascinating . ''
`` Stephen Shaw ! ''
repeat Miss Ponsonby faintly .
`` So Stephen Shaw be home again ! ''
`` Why , I suppose you would know him long ago , '' I say , remember that Stephen Shaw 's youth must have be contemporaneous with Miss Ponsonby 's .
`` Yes , I use to know him , '' say Miss Ponsonby very slowly .
She do not say anything more , which I think a little odd , for she be generally full of mild curiosity about all stranger and sojourner in Glenboro .
Presently she get up and go away from her window .
Deserted even by Miss Ponsonby , I go grumpily to bed .
Then Mrs. George Hubbard give a big dance .
Jerry and I be pleasantly excite .
The Hubbards be the smart of the Glenboro smart set and their entertainment be always quite brilliant affair for a small country village like ours .
This party be professedly give in honour of Stephen Shaw , who be to leave for the west again in a week 's time .
On the evening of the party Jerry and I go to our room to dress .
And there , across at her window in the twilight , sit Miss Ponsonby , cry .
I have never see Miss Ponsonby cry before .
`` What be the matter ? ''
I call out softly and anxiously .
`` Oh , nothing , '' sob Miss Ponsonby , `` only -- only -- I 'm invited to the party tonight -- Susan Hubbard be my cousin , you know -- and I would like so much to go . ''
`` Then why do n't you ? ''
say Jerry briskly .
`` My father wo n't let me , '' say Miss Ponsonby , swallow a sob a if she be a little girl of ten year old .
Jerry have to dodge behind the curtain to hide a smile .
`` It 's too bad , '' I say sympathetically , but wonder a little why Miss Ponsonby seem so work up about it .
I know she have sometimes be invite out before and have not be allow to go , but she have never care apparently .
`` Well , what be to be do ? ''
I whisper to Jerry .
`` Take Miss Ponsonby to the party with u , of course , '' say Jerry , pop out from behind the curtain .
I do n't ask her if she expect to fly through the air with Miss Ponsonby , although short of that I could n't see how the latter be to be get out of the house without her father knowing .
The old gentleman have a den off the hall where he always sit in the evening and smoke fiercely , after have lock all the door to keep the servant in .
He be a delightful sort of person , that old Mr. Ponsonby .
Jerry poke her head as far a she could out of the window .
`` Miss Ponsonby , you be go to the dance , '' she say in a cautious undertone , `` so do n't cry any more or your eye will be dreadfully red . ''
`` It be impossible , '' say Miss Ponsonby resignedly .
`` Nothing be impossible when I make up my mind , '' say Jerry firmly .
`` You must get dress , climb down that acacia tree , and join u in our yard .
It will be pitch dark in a few minute and your father will never know . ''
I have a frantic vision of Miss Ponsonby scramble down that acacia tree like an elope damsel .
But Jerry be in dead earnest , and really it be quite possible if Miss Ponsonby only think so .
I do not believe she would think so , but I be mistake .
Her thorough course in Libbey heroine and their marvellous escapade have quite prepared her to contemplate such an adventure calmly -- in the abstract at least .
But another obstacle present itself .
`` It 's impossible , '' she say again , after her first flash hope .
`` I have n't a fit dress to wear -- I 've nothing at all but my black cashmere and it be three year old . ''
But the more hindrance in Jerry 's way when she set out to accomplish something the more determined and enthusiastic she become .
I listen to her with amazement .
`` I have a dress I 'll lend you , '' she say resolutely .
`` And I 'll go over and fix you up as soon a it 's a little darker .
Go now and bathe your eye and just trust to me . ''
Miss Ponsonby 's long habit of obedience to whatever she be told stand her in good stead now .
She obey Jerry without another word .
Jerry seize me by the waist and waltz me around the room in an ecstasy .
`` Jerry Elliott , how be you go to carry this thing through ? ''
I demand sternly .
`` Easily enough , '' respond Jerry .
`` You know that black lace dress of mine -- the one with the apricot slip .
I 've never wear it since I come to Glenboro , so nobody will know it 's mine , and I never mean to wear it again for it 's get too tight .
It 's a trifle old-fashioned , but that wo n't matter for Glenboro , and it will fit Miss Ponsonby all right .
She 's about my height and figure .
I 'm determined that poor soul shall have a dissipation for once in her life since she hanker for it .
Come on now , Elizabeth .
It will be a lark . ''
I catch Jerry 's enthusiasm , and while she hunt out the box contain the black lace dress , I hastily gather together some other odds and end I think might be useful -- a black aigrette , a pair of black silk glove , a spangled gauze fan , and a pair of slipper .
They would n't have stand daylight , but they look all right after night .
As we leave the room I catch up some pale pink rose on my table .
We push through a little gap in the privet hedge and find ourselves under the acacia tree with Miss Ponsonby peer anxiously at u from above .
I want to shriek with laughter , the whole thing seem so funny and unreal .
Jerry , although she have n't climb tree since she be twelve , go up that acacia as nimbly a a pussy-cat , take the box and thing from me , pass them to Miss Ponsonby , and get in at the window while I go back to my own room to dress , hop old Mr. Ponsonby would n't be run out to ring the fire alarm .
In a very short time I hear Miss Ponsonby and Jerry at the opposite window , and I rush to mine to see the sight .
But Miss Ponsonby , with a red fascinator over her head and a big cape wrap round her , slip out of the window and down that bless acacia tree a neatly and nimbly a if she have be accustom to do it for exercise every day of her life .
There be possibility in Miss Ponsonby .
In two more minute they be both safe in our room .
Then Jerry throw off Miss Ponsonby 's wrap and step back .
I know I star until my eye stick out of my head .
Was that Miss Ponsonby -- that !
The black lace dress , with the pinkish sheen of it slip beneath , suit her slim shape to perfection and clung around her in lovely , filmy curve that make her look willowy and girlish .
It be high-necked , just cut away slightly at the throat , and have great , loose , hang frilly sleeve of lace .
Jerry have shake out her hair and pile it high on her head in satiny twist and loop , with a pompadour such a Miss Ponsonby could never have think about .
It suit her tremendously and seem to alter the whole character of her face , give verve and piquancy to her delicate little feature .
The excitement have flush her cheek into positive pinkness and her eye be starry .
The rose be pin on her shoulder .
Miss Ponsonby , a she stand there , be a pretty woman , with fifteen apparent birthdays the le .
`` Oh , Alicia , you look just lovely ! ''
I gasp .
The name slip out quite naturally .
I never think about it at all .
`` My dear Elizabeth , '' she say , `` it 's like a dream of lose youth . ''
We get Jerry ready and then we start for the Hubbards ' , out by our back door and through our neighbour-on-the-left 's lane to avoid all observation .
Miss Ponsonby be breathless with terror .
She be sure every footstep she hear behind her be her father 's in pursuit .
She almost faint on the spot when a belated man come tear along the street .
Jerry and I breathe a sigh of devout thanksgiving when we find ourselves safely in the Hubbard parlour .
We be early , but Stephen Shaw be there before u .
He come up to u at once , and just then Miss Ponsonby turn around .
`` Alicia ! ''
he say .
`` How do you do , Stephen ? ''
she say tremulously .
And there he be look down at her with an expression on his face that none of the Glenboro girl he have be call on have ever see .
Jerry and I just simply melt away .
We can see through grindstone when there be hole in them !
We go out and sit down on the stair .
`` There 's a mystery here , '' say Jerry , `` but Miss Ponsonby shall explain it to u before we let her climb up that acacia tree tonight .
Now that I come to think of it , the first night he call he ask me about her .
Wanted to know if her father be the same old blustering tyrant he always be , and if we know her at all .
I 'm afraid I make a little mild fun of her , and he do n't say anything more .
Well , I 'm awfully glad now that I do n't fall in love with him .
I could have , but I would n't . ''
Miss Ponsonby 's appearance at the Hubbards ' party be the big sensation Glenboro have have for year .
And in her way , she be a positive belle .
She do n't dance , but all the middle-aged men , widower , wed , and bachelor , who have know her in her girlhood crowd around her , and she laugh and chat a I have n't even imagined Miss Ponsonby could laugh and chat .
Jerry and I revel in her triumph , for do we not feel that it be due to u ?
At last Miss Ponsonby disappear ; shortly after Jerry and I blunder into the library to fix some obstreperous hairpin , and there we find her and Stephen Shaw in the cosy corner .
There be no explanation on the road home , for Miss Ponsonby walk behind u with Stephen Shaw in the pale , late-risen October moonshine .
But when we have sneak through the neighbour-to-the-left 's lane and reach our side verandah we wait for her , and as soon a Stephen Shaw have go we lay violent hand on Miss Ponsonby and make her ` fess up there on the dark , chilly verandah , at one o'clock in the morning .
`` Miss Ponsonby , '' say Jerry , `` before we assist you in return to those ancestral hall of yours you 've simply get to tell u what all this mean . ''
Miss Ponsonby give a little , shy , nervous laugh .
`` Stephen Shaw and I be engage to be marry long ago , '' she say simply .
`` But Father disapprove .
Stephen be poor then .
And so -- and so -- I send him away .
What else could I do ? ''
-- for Jerry have snort -- `` Father have to be obey .
But it break my heart .
Stephen go away -- he be very angry -- and I have never see him since .
When Susan Hubbard invite me to the party I felt a if I must go -- I must see Stephen once more .
I never think for a minute that he remember me -- or care still ... '' `` But he do ? ''
say Jerry breathlessly .
Jerry never scruple to ask anything right out that she want to know .
`` Yes , '' say Miss Ponsonby softly .
`` Is n't it wonderful ?
I could hardly believe it -- I be so change .
But he say tonight he have never think of any other woman .
He -- he come home to see me .
But when I never go anywhere , even when I must know he be home , he think I do n't want to see him .
If I have n't go tonight -- oh , I owe it all to you two dear girl ! ''
`` When be you to be marry ? ''
demand that terrible Jerry .
`` As soon a possible , '' say Miss Ponsonby .
`` Stephen be go away next week , but he say he will wait until I can get ready . ''
`` Do you think your father will object this time ? ''
I query .
`` No , I do n't think so .
Stephen be a rich man now , you know .
That would n't make any difference with me -- but Father be very -- practical .
Stephen be go to see him tomorrow . ''
`` But what if he do object ? ''
I persist anxiously .
`` The acacia tree will still be there , '' say Miss Ponsonby firmly .
The Falsoms ' Christmas Dinner `` Well , so it 's all settle , '' say Stephen Falsom .
`` Yes , '' assent Alexina .
`` Yes , it be , '' she repeat , a if somebody have question it .
Then Alexina sigh .
Whatever `` it '' be , the fact of it be settle do not seem to bring Alexina any great peace of mind -- nor Stephen either , judge from his face , which wear a sort of `` suffer and be strong '' expression just then .
`` When do you go ? ''
say Alexina , after a pause , during which she have frown out of the window and across the Tracy yard .
Josephine Tracy and her brother Duncan be stroll about the yard in the pleasant December sunshine , arm in arm , laugh and talk .
They appear to be a nice , harmless pair of people , but the sight of them do not seem to please Alexina .
`` Just as soon a we can sell the furniture and move away , '' say Stephen moodily .
`` Heigh-ho !
So this be what all our fine ambition have come to , Lexy , your music and my M.D . .
A place in a department store for you , and one in a lumber mill for me . ''
`` I do n't dare to complain , '' say Alexina slowly .
`` We ought to be so thankful to get the position .
I be thankful .
And I do n't mind so very much about my music .
But I do wish you could have go to college , Stephen . ''
`` Never mind me , '' say Stephen , brighten up determinedly .
`` I 'm go to go into the lumber business enthusiastically .
You do n't know what unsuspected talent I may develop along that line .
The bad of it be that we ca n't be together .
But I 'll keep my eye open , and perhaps I 'll find a place for you in Lessing . ''
Alexina say nothing .
Her separation from Stephen be the one point in their fortune she could not bear to discuss .
There be time when Alexina do not see how she be go to exist without Stephen .
But she never say so to him .
She think he have enough to worry him without her make matter bad .
`` Well , '' say Stephen , get up , `` I 'll run down to the office .
And see here , Lexy .
Day after tomorrow be Christmas .
Are we go to celebrate it at all ?
If so I 'd better order the turkey . ''
Alexina look thoughtful .
`` I do n't know , Stephen .
We 're short of money , you know , and the fund be dwindle every day .
Do n't you think it 's a little extravagant to have a turkey for two people ?
And somehow I do n't feel a bit Christmassy .
I think I 'd rather spend it just like any other day and try to forget that it be Christmas .
Everything would be so different . ''
`` That 's true , Lexy .
And we must look after the bawbee closely , I 'll admit . ''
When Stephen have go out Alexina cry a little , not very much , because she do n't want her eye to be red against Stephen 's return .
But she have to cry a little .
As she have say , everything be so different from what it have be a year ago .
Their father have be alive then and they have be very cosy and happy in the little house at the end of the street .
There have be no mother there since Alexina 's birth sixteen year ago .
Alexina have keep house for her father and Stephen since she be ten .
Stephen be a clever boy and intend to study medicine .
Alexina have a good voice , and something be to be do about train it .
The Tracys live next door to them .
Duncan Tracy be Stephen 's particular chum , and Josephine Tracy be Alexina 's dear friend .
Alexina be never lonely when Josie be near by to laugh and chat and plan with .
Then , all at once , trouble come .
In June the firm of which Mr. Falsom be a member fail .
There be some stigma attach to the failure , too , although the blame do not rest upon Mr. Falsom , but with his partner .
Worry and anxiety aggravate the heart trouble from which he have suffer for some time , and a month later he die .
Alexina and Stephen be leave alone to face the knowledge that they be penniless , and must look about for some way of support themselves .
At first they hop to be able to get something to do in Thorndale , so that they might keep their home .
This prove impossible .
After much discouragement and disappointment Stephen have secure a position in the lumber mill at Lessing , and Alexina be promise a place in a departmental store in the city .
To make matter bad , Duncan Tracy and Stephen have quarrel in October .
It be only a boyish disagreement over some trifle , but bitter word have pass .
Duncan , who be a quick-tempered lad , have twit Stephen with his father 's failure , and Stephen have resent it hotly .
Duncan be sorry for and ashamed of his word as soon a they be uttered , but he would not humble himself to say so .
Alexina have take Stephen 's part and her manner to Josie assume a tinge of coldness .
Josie quickly notice and resent it , and the breach between the two girl widen almost insensibly , until they barely speak when they meet .
Each blame the other and cherished bitterness in her heart .
When Stephen come home from the post office he look excited .
`` Were there any letter ? ''
ask Alexina .
`` Well , rather !
One from Uncle James ! ''
`` Uncle James , '' exclaim Alexina , incredulously .
`` Yes , beloved si .
Oh , you need n't try to look as surprised a I do .
And I order the turkey after all .
Uncle James have invite himself here to dinner on Christmas Day .
You 'll have a chance to show your culinary skill , for you know we 've always be tell that Uncle James be a gourmand . ''
Alexina read the letter in a maze .
It be a brief epistle , state that the writer wish to make the acquaintance of his niece and nephew , and would visit them on Christmas Day .
That be all .
But Alexina instantly saw a future of rosy possibility .
For Uncle James , who live in the city and be really a great-uncle , have never take the slight notice of their family since his quarrel with their father twenty year ago ; but this look a if Uncle James be dispose to hold out the olive branch .
`` Oh , Stephen , if he like you , and if he offer to educate you ! ''
breathe Alexina .
`` Perhaps he will if he be favourably impressed .
But we 'll have to be so careful , he be so whimsical and odd , at least everybody have always say so .
A little thing may turn the scale either way .
Anyway , we must have a good dinner for him .
I 'll have plum pudding and mince pie . ''
For the next thirty-six hour Alexina live in a whirl .
There be so much to do .
The little house be put in apple pie order from top to bottom , and Stephen be set to stone raisin and chop meat and beating egg .
Alexina be perfectly reckless ; no matter how big a hole it make in their finance Uncle James must have a proper Christmas dinner .
A favourable impression must be make .
Stephen 's whole future -- Alexina do not think about her own at all just then -- might depend on it .
Christmas morning come , fine and bright and warm .
It be more like a morning in early spring than in December , for there be no snow or frost , and the air be moist and balmy .
Alexina be up at daybreak , cleaning and decorating at a furious rate .
By eleven o'clock everything be finish or go forward briskly .
The plum pudding be bubble in the pot , the turkey -- Burton 's plump -- be sizzle in the oven .
The shelf in the pantry bore two mince pie upon which Alexina be willing to stake her culinary reputation .
And Stephen have go to the train to meet Uncle James .
From her kitchen window Alexina could see brisk preparation go on in the Tracy kitchen .
She know Josie and Duncan be all alone ; their parent have go to spend Christmas with friend in Lessing .
In spite of her hurry and excitement Alexina find time to sigh .
Last Christmas Josie and Duncan have come over and eat their dinner with them .
But now last Christmas seem very far away .
And Josie have behave horridly .
Alexina be quite clear on that point .
Then Stephen come with Uncle James .
Uncle James be a rather pompous , fussy old man with red cheek and bushy eyebrow .
`` H 'm !
Smells nice in here , '' be his salutation to Alexina .
`` I hope it will taste as good a it smell .
I 'm hungry . ''
Alexina soon leave Uncle James and Stephen talk in the parlour and betook herself anxiously to the kitchen .
She set the table in the little dining room , now and then pause to listen with a delighted nod to the murmur of voice and laughter in the parlour .
She felt sure that Stephen be make a favourable impression .
She lift the plum pudding and put it on a plate on the kitchen table ; then she take out the turkey , beautifully do , and put it on a platter ; finally , she pop the two mince pie into the oven .
Just at this moment Stephen stick his head in at the hall door .
`` Lexy , do you know where that letter of Governor Howland 's to Father be ?
Uncle James want to see it . ''
Alexina , not wait to shut the oven door -- for delay might impress Uncle James unfavourably -- rush upstairs to get the letter .
She be ten minute find it .
Then , remember her pie , she fly back to the kitchen .
In the middle of the floor she stop a if transfixed , star at the table .
The turkey be go .
And the plum pudding be go !
And the mince pie be go !
Nothing be leave but the platter !
For a moment Alexina refuse to believe her eye .
Then she saw a trail of greasy drop on the floor to the open door , out over the doorstep , and along the board of the walk to the back fence .
Alexina do not make a fuss .
Even at that horrible moment she remember the importance of make a favourable impression .
But she could not quite keep the alarm and excitement out of her voice a she call Stephen , and Stephen know that something have go wrong a he come quickly through the hall .
`` Is the turkey burn , Lexy ? ''
he cry .
`` Burned !
No , it 's ten time worse , '' gasp Alexina .
`` It 's go -- go , Stephen .
And the pudding and the mince pie , too .
Oh , what shall we do ?
Who can have take them ? ''
It may be state right here and now that the Falsoms never really know anything more about the disappearance of their Christmas dinner than they do at that moment .
But the only reasonable explanation of the mystery be that a tramp have enter the kitchen and make off with the good thing .
The Falsom house be right at the end of the street .
The narrow backyard open on a lonely road .
Across the road be a stretch of pine wood .
There be no house very near except the Tracy one .
Stephen reach this conclusion with a bound .
He run out to the yard gate follow by the distracted Alexina .
The only person visible be a man some distance down the road .
Stephen leap over the gate and tear down the road in pursuit of him .
Alexina go back to the doorstep , sit down upon it , and begin to cry .
She could n't help it .
Her hope be all in ruin around her .
There be no dinner for Uncle James .
Josephine Tracy saw her cry .
Now , Josie honestly think that she have a grievance against Alexina .
But an Alexina walk unconcernedly by with a cool little nod and her head hold high be a very different person from an Alexina sit on a back doorstep , on Christmas morning , cry .
For a moment Josie hesitate .
Then she slowly go out and across the yard to the fence .
`` What be the trouble ? ''
she ask .
Alexina forget that there be such a thing a dignity to be keep up ; or , if she remember it , she be past caring for such a trifle .
`` Our dinner be go , '' she sob .
`` And there be nothing to give Uncle James to eat except vegetable -- and I do so want to make a favourable impression ! ''
This be not particularly lucid , but Josie , with a fly mental leap , arrive at the conclusion that it be very important that Uncle James , whoever he be , should have a dinner , and she know where one be to be have .
But before she could speak Stephen return , look rueful .
`` No use , Lexy .
That man be only old Mr. Byers , and he have see no sign of a tramp .
There be a trail of grease right across the road .
The tramp must have take directly to the wood .
We 'll simply have to do without our Christmas dinner . ''
`` By no mean , '' say Josie quickly , with a little red spot on either cheek .
`` Our dinner be all ready -- turkey , pudding and all .
Let u lend it to you .
Do n't say a word to your uncle about the accident . ''
Alexina flush and hesitate .
`` It 's very kind of you , '' she stammer , `` but I 'm afraid -- it would be too much -- '' `` Not a bit of it , '' Josie interrupt warmly .
`` Did n't Duncan and I have Christmas dinner at your house last year ?
Just come and help u carry it over . ''
`` If you lend u your dinner you and Duncan must come and help u eat it , '' say Alexina , resolutely .
`` I 'll come of course , '' say Josie , `` and I think that Duncan will too if -- if -- '' She look at Stephen , the scarlet spot deepen .
Stephen colour too .
`` Duncan must come , '' he say quietly .
`` I 'll go and ask him . ''
Two minute later a peculiar procession march out of the Tracy kitchen door , across the two yard , and into the Falsom house .
Josie head it , carry a turkey on a platter .
Alexina come next with a plum pudding .
Stephen and Duncan follow with a hot mince pie apiece .
And in a few more minute Alexina gravely announce to Uncle James that dinner be ready .
The dinner be a pronounced success , mark by much suppress hilarity among the young member of the party .
Uncle James eat very heartily and seem to enjoy everything , especially the mince pie .
`` This be the best mince pie I have ever sample , '' he tell Alexina .
`` I be glad to know that I have a niece who can make such a mince pie . ''
Alexina cast an agonized look at Josie , and be on the point of explain that she be n't the maker of the pie .
But Josie frown her into silence .
`` I felt so guilty to sit there and take the credit -- your credit , '' she tell Josie afterwards , a they wash up the dish .
`` Nonsense , '' say Josie .
`` It be n't a if you could n't make mince pie .
Your mince pie be good than mine , if it come to that .
It might have spoil everything if you 'd say a word .
I must go home now .
Wo n't you and Stephen come over after your uncle go , and spend the evening with u ?
We 'll have a candy pull . ''
When Josie and Duncan have go , Uncle James call his nephew and niece into the parlour , and sit down before them with approve eye .
`` I want to have a little talk with you two .
I 'm sorry I 've let so many year go by without make your acquaintance , because you seem worth get acquaint with .
Now , what be your plan for the future ? ''
`` I 'm go into a lumber mill at Lessing and Alexina be go into the T. Morson store , '' say Stephen quietly .
`` Tut , tut , no , you 're not .
And she 's not .
You 're come to live with me , both of you .
If you have a fancy for cut and carve people up , young man , you must be train to cut and carve them scientifically , anyhow .
As for you , Alexina , Stephen tell me you can sing .
Well , there 's a good Conservatory of Music in town .
Would n't you rather go there instead of behind a counter ? ''
`` Oh , Uncle James ! ''
exclaim Alexina with shin eye .
She jump up , put her arm about Uncle James ' neck and kiss him .
Uncle James say , `` Tut , tut , '' again , but he like it .
When Stephen have see his uncle off on the six o'clock train he return home and look at the radiant Alexina .
`` Well , you make your favourable impression , all right , do n't you ? ''
he say gaily .
`` But we owe it to Josie Tracy .
Is n't she a brick ?
I suppose you 're go over this evening ? ''
`` Yes , I be .
I 'm so tired that I feel a if I could n't crawl across the yard , but if I ca n't you 'll have to carry me .
Go I will .
I ca n't begin to tell you how glad I be about everything , but really the fact that you and Duncan and Josie and I be good friend again seem the best of all .
I 'm glad that tramp steal the dinner and I hope he enjoy it .
I do n't grudge him one single bite ! ''
The Fraser Scholarship Elliot Campbell come down the main staircase of Marwood College and find himself catch up with a whoop into a crowd of Sophs who be struggle around the bulletin board .
He be thump on the back and shaken hand with amid a hurricane of shout and congratulation .
`` Good for you , Campbell !
You 've win the Fraser .
See your little name tack up there at the top of the list , bracket off all by itself for the winner ?
` Elliott H. Campbell , ninety-two per cent . '
A class yell for Campbell , boys ! ''
While the yell be be give with a heartiness that might have endanger the roof , Elliott , with flushed face and sparkling eye , push nearer to the important typewritten announcement on the bulletin board .
Yes , he have win the Fraser Scholarship .
His name head the list of seven competitor .
Roger Brooks , who be at his side , read over the list aloud : '' ` Elliott H. Campbell , ninety-two . '
I say you 'd do it , my boy .
` Edward Stone , ninety-one ' -- old Ned ran you close , do n't he ?
But of course with that name he 'd no show .
` Kay Milton , eighty-eight . '
Who 'd have think slow-going old Kay would have pull up so well ?
` Seddon Brown , eighty-seven ; Oliver Field , eighty-four ; Arthur McIntyre , eighty-two ' -- a very respectable little trio .
And ` Carl McLean , seventy . '
Whew !
what a drop !
Just save his distance .
It be only his name take him in , of course .
He know you be n't suppose to be strong in mathematics . ''
Before Elliott could say anything , a professor emerge from the president 's private room , bear the report of a Freshman examination , which he proceed to post on the Freshman bulletin board , and the rush of the student in that direction leave Elliott and Roger free of the crowd .
They seize the opportunity to escape .
Elliott draw a long breath a they cross the campus in the fresh April sunshine , where the bud be swell on the fine old chestnut and elm that surround Marwood 's red brick wall .
`` That have lift a great weight off my mind , '' he say frankly .
`` A good deal depend on my win the Fraser .
I could n't have come back next year if I have n't get it .
That four hundred will put me through the rest of my course . ''
`` That 's good , '' say Roger Brooks heartily .
He like Elliott Campbell , and so do all the Sophomores .
Yet none of them be at all intimate with him .
He have no chum , a the other boy have .
He board alone , `` dug '' persistently , and take no part in the social life of the college .
Roger Brooks come near to be his friend of any , yet even Roger know very little about him .
Elliott have never before say so much about his personal affair a in the speech just record .
`` I 'm poor -- woefully poor , '' go on Elliott gaily .
His success seem to have thaw his reserve for the time be .
`` I have just enough money to bring me through the Fresh and Soph year by dint of careful management .
Now I 'm stone broke , and the hope of the Fraser be all that stand between me and the dismal certainty of have to teach next year , drop out of my class and come back in two or three year ' time , a complete , rusty stranger again .
Whew !
I make face over the prospect . ''
`` No wonder , '' comment Roger .
`` The class would have be sorry if you have have to drop out , Campbell .
We want to keep all our star with u to make a shining coruscation at the finish .
Besides , you know we all like you for yourself .
It would have be an everlasting shame if that little cad of a McLean have win out .
Nobody like him . ''
`` Oh , I have no fear of him , '' answer Elliott .
`` I do n't see what induce him to go in , anyhow .
He must have know he 'd no chance .
But I be afraid of Stone -- he 's a born dabster at mathematics , you know , and I only hold my own in them by hard digging . ''
`` Why , Stone could n't have take the Fraser over you in any case , if you make over seventy , '' say Roger with a puzzled look .
`` You must have know that .
McLean be the only competitor you have to fear . ''
`` I do n't understand you , '' say Elliott blankly .
`` You must know the condition of the Fraser ! ''
exclaim Roger .
`` Certainly , '' respond Elliott . ''
` The Fraser scholarship , amount to four hundred dollar , will be offer annually in the Sophomore class .
The competitor will be expect to take a special examination in mathematics , and the winner will be award two hundred dollar for two year , payable in four annual instalment , the payment of any instalment to be conditional on the winner 's attend the required class for undergraduate and make satisfactory progress therein . '
Is n't that correct ? ''
`` So far a it go , old man .
You forget the most important part of all .
` Preference be to be give to competitor of the name Fraser , Campbell or McLean , provide that such competitor make at least seventy per cent in his examination . '
You do n't mean to tell me that you do n't know that ! ''
`` Are you joke ? ''
demand Elliott with a pale face .
`` Not a joke .
Why , man , it 's in the calendar . ''
`` I do n't know it , '' say Elliott slowly .
`` I read the calendar announcement only once , and I certainly do n't notice that condition . ''
`` Well , that 's curious .
But how on earth do you escape hear it talk about ?
It 's always discuss extensively among the boy , especially when there be two competitor of the favoured name , which do n't often happen . ''
`` I 'm not a very sociable fellow , '' say Elliott with a faint smile .
`` You know they call me ` the hermit . '
As it happen , I never talk the matter over with anyone or hear it refer to .
I -- I wish I have know this before . ''
`` Why , what difference do it make ?
It 's all right , anyway .
But it be odd to think that if your name have n't be Campbell , the Fraser would have go to McLean over the head of Stone and all the rest .
Their only hope be that you would both fall below seventy .
It 's an absurd condition , but there it be in old Professor Fraser 's will .
He be rich and have no family .
So he leave a number of bequest to the college on ordinary condition .
I suppose he think he might humour his whim in one .
His widow be a dear old soul , and always make a special pet of the boy who win the Fraser .
Well , here 's my street .
So long , Campbell . ''
Elliott respond almost curtly and walk onward to his boarding-house with a face from which all the light have go .
When he reach his room he take down the Marwood calendar and whirl over the leaf until he come to the announcement of bursary and scholarship .
The Fraser announcement , as far a he have read it , end at the foot of the page .
He turn the leaf and , sure enough , at the top of the next page , in a paragraph by itself , be the condition : `` Preference shall be give to candidate of the name Fraser , Campbell or McLean , provide that say competitor make at least seventy per cent in his examination . ''
Elliott flung himself into a chair by his table and bow his head on his hand .
He have no right to the Fraser Scholarship .
His name be not Campbell , although perhaps nobody in the world know it save himself , and he remember it only by an effort of memory .
He have be bear in a rough mining camp in British Columbia , and when he be a month old his father , John Hanselpakker , have be kill in a mine explosion , leave his wife and child quite penniless and almost friendless .
One of the miner , an honest , kindly Scotchman name Alexander Campbell , have befriend Mrs. Hanselpakker and her little son in many way , and two year later she have marry him .
They return to their native province of Nova Scotia and settle in a small country village .
Here Elliott have grow up , bear the name of the man who be a kind and love father to him , and whom he love a a father .
His mother have die when he be ten year old and his stepfather when he be fifteen .
On his deathbed he ask Elliott to retain his name .
`` I 've care for you and love you since the time you be bear , lad , '' he say .
`` You seem like my own son , and I 've a fancy to leave you my name .
It 's all I can leave you , for I 'm a poor man , but it 's an honest name , lad , and I 've keep it free from stain .
See that you do likewise , and you 'll have your mother 's blessing and mine . ''
Elliott fight a hard battle that spring evening .
`` Hold your tongue and keep the Fraser , '' whisper the tempter .
`` Campbell be your name .
You 've bear it all your life .
And the condition itself be a ridiculous one -- no fairness about it .
You make the high mark and you ought to be the winner .
It be n't a if you be wrong Stone or any of the others who work hard and make good mark .
If you throw away what you 've win by your own hard labour , the Fraser go to McLean , who make only seventy .
Besides , you need the money and he do n't .
His father be a rich man . ''
`` But I 'll be a cheat and a cad if I keep it , '' Elliott mutter miserably .
`` Campbell be n't my legal name , and I 'd never again feel a if I have even the right of love to it if I stain it by a dishonest act .
For it would be stain , even though nobody but myself know it .
Father say it be a clean name when he leave it , and I can not soil it . ''
The tempter be not silence so easily a that .
Elliott pass a sleepless night of indecision .
But next day he go to Marwood and ask for a private interview with the president .
As a result , an official announcement be post that afternoon on the bulletin board to the effect that , owe to a misunderstanding , the Fraser Scholarship have be wrongly award .
Carl McLean be post a winner .
The story soon get around the campus , and Elliott find himself rather overwhelm with sympathy , but he do not feel a if he be very much in need of it after all .
It be good to have do the right thing and be able to look your conscience in the face .
He be young and strong and could work his own way through Marwood in time .
`` No condolence , please , '' he say to Roger Brooks with a smile .
`` I 'm sorry I lose the Fraser , of course , but I 've my hand and brain leave .
I 'm go straight to my boarding-house to dig with double vim , for I 've get to take an examination next week for a provincial school certificate .
Next winter I 'll be a flourishing pedagogue in some up-country district . ''
He be not , however .
The next afternoon he receive a summons to the president 's office .
The president be there , and with him be a plump , motherly-looking woman of about sixty .
`` Mrs. Fraser , this be Elliott Hanselpakker , or Campbell , a I understand he prefer to be call .
Elliott , I tell your story to Mrs. Fraser last evening , and she be greatly interested when she hear your rather peculiar name .
She will tell you why herself . ''
`` I have a young half-sister once , '' say Mrs. Fraser eagerly .
`` She marry a man name John Hanselpakker and go West , and somehow I lose all trace of her .
There be , I regret to say , a coolness between u over her marriage .
I disapprove of it because she marry a very poor man .
When I hear your name , it strike me that you might be her son , or at least know something about her .
Her name be Mary Helen Rodney , and I love her very dearly in spite of our foolish quarrel . ''
There be a tremour in Mrs. Fraser 's voice and an answer one in Elliott 's a he reply : `` Mary Helen Rodney be my dear mother 's name , and my father be John Hanselpakker . ''
`` Then you be my nephew , '' exclaim Mrs. Fraser .
`` I be your Aunt Alice .
My boy , you do n't know how much it mean to a lonely old woman to have find you .
I 'm the happy person in the world ! ''
She slip her arm through Elliott 's and turn to the sympathetic president with shining eye .
`` He be my boy forever , if he will be .
Blessings on the Fraser Scholarship ! ''
`` Blessings rather on the manly boy who would n't keep it under false colour , '' say the president with a smile .
`` I think you be fortunate in your nephew , Mrs. Fraser . ''
So Elliott Hanselpakker Campbell come back to Marwood the next year after all .
The Girl at the Gate Something very strange happen the night old Mr. Lawrence die .
I have never be able to explain it and I have never speak of it except to one person and she say that I dream it .
I do not dream it ... I saw and heard , wake .
We have not expect Mr. Lawrence to die then .
He do not seem very ill ... not nearly so ill a he have be during his previous attack .
When we hear of his illness I go over to Woodlands to see him , for I have always be a great favourite with him .
The big house be quiet , the servant go about their work a usual , without any appearance of excitement .
I be tell that I could not see Mr. Lawrence for a little while , a the doctor be with him .
Mrs. Yeats , the housekeeper , say the attack be not serious and ask me to wait in the blue parlour , but I prefer to sit down on the step of the big , arched front door .
It be an evening in June .
Woodlands be very lovely ; to my right be the garden , and before me be a little valley abrim with the sunset .
In place under the big tree it be quite dark even then .
There be something unusually still in the evening ... a stillness a of wait .
It set me thinking of the last time Mr. Lawrence have be ill ... nearly a year ago in August .
One night during his convalescence I have watch by him to relieve the nurse .
He have be sleepless and talkative , tell me many thing about his life .
Finally he tell me of Margaret .
I know a little about her ... that she have be his sweetheart and have die very young .
Mr. Lawrence have remain true to her memory ever since , but I have never hear him speak of her before .
`` She be very beautiful , '' he say dreamily , `` and she be only eighteen when she die , Jeanette .
She have wonderful pale-golden hair and dark-brown eye .
I have a little ivory miniature of her .
When I die it be to be give to you , Jeanette .
I have wait a long while for her .
You know she promise she would come . ''
I do not understand his meaning and keep silence , think that he might be wander a little in his mind .
`` She promise she would come and she will keep her word , '' he go on .
`` I be with her when she die .
I hold her in my arm .
She say to me , ` Herbert , I promise that I will be true to you forever , through a many year of lonely heaven a I must know before you come .
And when your time be at hand I will come to make your deathbed easy a you have make mine .
I will come , Herbert . '
She solemnly promise , Jeanette .
We make a death-tryst of it .
And I know she will come . ''
He have fall asleep then and after his recovery he have not allude to the matter again .
I have forget it , but I recall it now a I sit on the step among the geranium that June evening .
I like to think of Margaret ... the lovely girl who have die so long ago , take her lover 's heart with her to the grave .
She have be a sister of my grandfather , and people tell me that I resemble her slightly .
Perhaps that be why old Mr. Lawrence have always make such a pet of me .
Presently the doctor come out and nod to me cheerily .
I ask him how Mr. Lawrence be .
`` Better ... well , '' he say briskly .
`` He will be all right tomorrow .
The attack be very slight .
Yes , of course you may go in .
Do n't stay long than half an hour . ''
Mrs. Stewart , Mr. Lawrence 's sister , be in the sickroom when I go in .
She take advantage of my presence to lie down on the sofa a little while , for she have be up all the precede night .
Mr. Lawrence turn his fine old silver head on the pillow and smile a greeting .
He be a very handsome old man ; neither age nor illness have mar his finely modelled face or impair the flash of his keen , steel-blue eye .
He seem quite well and talk naturally and easily of many commonplace thing .
At the end of the doctor 's half-hour I rise to go .
Mrs. Stewart have fall asleep and he would not let me wake her , say he need nothing and felt like sleep himself .
I promise to come up again on the morrow and go out .
It be dark in the hall , where no lamp have be light , but outside on the lawn the moonlight be bright a day .
It be the clear , white night I ever saw .
I turn aside into the garden , mean to cross it , and take the short way over the west meadow home .
There be a long walk of rise bush lead across the garden to a little gate on the further side ... the way Mr. Lawrence have be wont to take long ago when he go over the field to woo Margaret .
I go along it , enjoy the night .
The bush be white with rose , and the ground under my foot be all snow over with their petal .
The air be still and breezeless ; again I felt that sensation of wait ... of expectancy .
As I come up to the little gate I saw a young girl stand on the other side of it .
She stand in the full moonlight and I saw her distinctly .
She be tall and slight and her head be bare .
I saw that her hair be a pale gold , shin somewhat strangely about her head a if catch the moonbeam .
Her face be very lovely and her eye large and dark .
She be dress in something white and softly shimmer , and in her hand she hold a white rise ... a very large and perfect one .
Even at the time I find myself wonder where she could have pick it .
It be not a Woodlands rise .
All the Woodlands rose be small and less double .
She be a stranger to me , yet I felt that I have see her or someone very like her before .
Possibly she be one of Mr. Lawrence 's many niece who might have come up to Woodlands upon hearing of his illness .
As I open the gate I felt an odd chill of positive fear .
Then she smile a if I have speak my thought .
`` Do not be frighten , '' she say .
`` There be no reason you should be frighten .
I have only come to keep a tryst . ''
The word remind me of something , but I could not recall what it be .
The strange fear that be on me deepen .
I could not speak .
She come through the gateway and stood for a moment at my side .
`` It be strange that you should have see me , '' she say , `` but now behold how strong and beautiful a thing be faithful love -- strong enough to conquer death .
We who have love truly love always -- and this make our heaven . ''
She walk on after she have speak , down the long rise path .
I watch her until she reach the house and go up the step .
In truth I think the girl be someone not quite in her right mind .
When I reach home I do not speak of the matter to anyone , not even to inquire who the girl might possibly be .
There seem to be something in that strange meeting that demand my silence .
The next morning word come that old Mr. Lawrence be dead .
When I hurry down to Woodlands I find all in confusion , but Mrs. Yeats take me into the blue parlour and tell me what little there be to tell .
`` He must have die soon after you leave him , Miss Jeanette , '' she sob , `` for Mrs. Stewart waken at ten o'clock and he be go .
He lay there , smile , with such a strange look on his face a if he have just see something that make him wonderfully happy .
I never saw such a look on a dead face before . ''
`` Who be here besides Mrs. Stewart ? ''
I ask .
`` Nobody , '' say Mrs. Yeats .
`` We have send word to all his friend but they have not have time to arrive here yet . ''
`` I meet a young girl in the garden last night , '' I say slowly .
`` She come into the house .
I do not know her but I think she must be a relative of Mr. Lawrence 's . ''
Mrs. Yeats shake her head .
`` No .
It must have be somebody from the village , although I do n't know of anyone call after you go away . ''
I say nothing more to her about it .
After the funeral Mrs. Stewart give me Margaret 's miniature .
I have never see it or any picture of Margaret before .
The face be very lovely -- also strangely like my own , although I be not beautiful .
It be the face of the young girl I have meet at the gate !
The Light on the Big Dipper `` Do n't let Nellie run out of door , Mary Margaret , and be careful of the fire , Mary Margaret .
I expect we 'll be back pretty soon after dark , so do n't be lonesome , Mary Margaret . ''
Mary Margaret laugh and switch her long , thick braid of black hair from one shoulder to the other .
`` No fear of my be lonesome , Mother Campbell .
I 'll be just as careful a can be and there be so many thing to be do that I 'll be a busy and happy a a bee all day long .
Nellie and I will have just the nice kind of a time .
I wo n't get lonesome , but if I should feel just tempt to , I 'll think , Father be on his way home .
He will soon be here . '
And that would drive the lonesomeness away before it dare to show it face .
Do n't you worry , Mother Campbell . ''
Mother Campbell smile .
She know she could trust Mary Margaret -- careful , steady , prudent little Mary Margaret .
Little !
Ah , that be just the trouble .
Careful and steady and prudent a Mary Margaret might be , she be only twelve year old , after all , and there would not be another soul besides her and Nellie on the Little Dipper that whole day .
Mrs. Campbell felt that she hardly dare to go away under such circumstance .
And yet she must dare it .
Oscar Bryan have sail over from the mainland the evening before with word that her sister Nan -- her only sister , who live in Cartonville -- be ill and about to undergo a serious operation .
She must go to see her , and Uncle Martin be wait with his boat to take her over to the mainland to catch the morning train for Cartonville .
If five-year-old Nellie have be quite well Mrs. Campbell would have take both her and Mary Margaret and lock up the house .
But Nellie have a very bad cold and be quite unfit to go sail across the harbour on a raw , chilly November day .
So there be nothing to do but leave Mary Margaret in charge , and Mary Margaret be quite pleased at the prospect .
`` You know , Mother Campbell , I 'm not afraid of anything except tramp .
And no tramp ever come to the Dippers .
You see what an advantage it be to live on an island !
There , Uncle Martin be wave .
Run along , little mother . ''
Mary Margaret watch the boat out of sight from the window and then betook herself to the do of her task , sing blithely all the while .
It be rather nice to be leave in sole charge like this -- it make you feel so important and grown-up .
She would do everything very nicely and Mother would see when she come back what a good housekeeper her daughter be .
Mary Margaret and Nellie and Mrs. Campbell have be live on the Little Dipper ever since the precede April .
Before that they have always live in their own cosy home at the Harbour Head .
But in April Captain Campbell have sail in the Two Sisters for a long voyage and , before he go , Mrs. Campbell 's brother , Martin Clowe , have come to them with a proposition .
He run a lobster cannery on the Little Dipper , and he want his sister to go and keep house for him while her husband be away .
After some discussion it be so arranged , and Mrs. Campbell and her two girl move to the Little Dipper .
It be not a lonesome place then , for the lobsterman and their family live on it , and boat be constantly sail to and fro between it and the mainland .
Mary Margaret enjoy her summer greatly ; she bath and sail and roam over the rock , and on fine day her Uncle George , who keep the lighthouse on the Big Dipper , and live there all alone , often come over and take her across to the Big Dipper .
Mary Margaret think the lighthouse be a wonderful place .
Uncle George teach her how to light the lamp and manage the light .
When the lobster season dose , the men take up codfishing and carry this on till October , when they all move back to the mainland .
But Uncle Martin be build a house for himself at Harbour Head and do not wish to move until the ice form over the bay because it would then be so much easy to transport his good and chattel ; so the Campbells stay with him until the Captain should return .
Mary Margaret find plenty to do that day and be n't a bit lonesome .
But when evening come she do n't feel quite so cheerful .
Nellie have fall asleep , and there be n't another living creature except the cat on the Little Dipper .
Besides , it look like a storm .
The harbour be glassy calm , but the sky be very black and dour in the northeast -- like snow , think weather-wise Mary Margaret .
She hop her mother would get home before it begin , and she wish the lighthouse star would gleam out on the Big Dipper .
It would seem like the bright eye of a steady old friend .
Mary Margaret always watch for it every night ; just as soon a the sun go down the big lighthouse star would flash goldenly out in the northeastern sky .
`` I 'll sit down by the window and watch for it , '' say Mary Margaret to herself .
`` Then , when it be light , I 'll get up a nice warm supper for Mother and Uncle Martin . ''
Mary Margaret sit down by the kitchen window to watch .
Minute after minute pass , but no light flash out on the Big Dipper .
What be the matter ?
Mary Margaret begin to feel uneasy .
It be too cloudy to tell just when the sun have set , but she be sure it must be down , for it be quite dark in the house .
She light a lamp , get the almanac , and hunt out the exact time of sunsetting .
The sun have be down fifteen minute !
And there be no light on the Big Dipper !
Mary Margaret felt alarmed and anxious .
What be wrong at the Big Dipper ?
Was Uncle George away ?
Or have something happen to him ?
Mary Margaret be sure he have never forget !
Fifteen minute longer do Mary Margaret watch restlessly at the window .
Then she conclude that something be desperately wrong somewhere .
It be half an hour after sunset and the Big Dipper light , the most important one along the whole coast , be not light .
What would she do ?
What could she do ?
The answer come swift and dear into Mary Margaret 's steady , sensible little mind .
She must go to the Big Dipper and light the lamp !
But could she ?
Difficulties come crowd thick and fast into her thought .
It be go to snow ; the soft broad flake be fall already .
Could she row the two mile to the Big Dipper in the darkness and the snow ?
If she could , dare she leave Nellie all alone in the house ?
Oh , she could n't !
Somebody at the Harbour Head would surely notice that the Big Dipper light be unlighted and would go over to investigate the cause .
But suppose they should n't ?
If the snow come thicker they might never notice the absence of the light .
And suppose there be a ship away out there , a there nearly always be , with the dangerous rock and shoal of the outer harbour to pass , with precious life on board and no guide beacon on the Big Dipper .
Mary Margaret hesitate no longer .
She must go .
Bravely , briskly and thoughtfully she make her preparation .
First , the fire be bank and the draught dose ; then she write a little note for her mother and lay it on the table .
Finally she waken Nellie .
`` Nellie , '' say Mary Margaret , speak very kindly and determinedly , `` there be no light on the Big Dipper and I 've get to row over and see about it .
I 'll be back as quickly a I can , and Mother and Uncle Martin will soon be here .
You wo n't be afraid to stay alone , will you , dearie ?
You must n't be afraid , because I have to go .
And , Nellie , I 'm go to tie you in your chair ; it 's necessary , because I ca n't lock the door , so you must n't cry ; nothing will hurt you , and I want you to be a brave little girl and help sister all you can . ''
Nellie , too sleepy and daze to understand very clearly what Mary Margaret be about , submit to be wrap up in quilt and bound securely in her chair .
Then Mary Margaret tie the chair fast to the wall so that Nellie could n't upset it .
That 's safe , she think .
Nellie ca n't run out now or fall on the stove or set herself afire .
Mary Margaret put on her jacket , hood and mitten , and take Uncle Martin 's lantern .
As she go out and close the door , a little wail from Nellie sound on her ear .
For a moment she hesitate , then the blackness of the Big Dipper confirm her resolution .
She must go .
Nellie be really quite safe and comfortable .
It would not hurt her to cry a little , and it might hurt somebody a great deal if the Big Dipper light fail .
Setting her lip firmly , Mary Margaret run down to the shore .
Like all the Harbour girl , Mary Margaret could row a boat from the time she be nine year old .
Nevertheless , her heart almost fail her a she get into the little dory and row out .
The snow be get thick .
Could she pull across those black two mile between the Dippers before it get so much thicker that she would lose her way ?
Well , she must risk it .
She have set the light in the kitchen window ; she must keep it fair behind her and then she would land on the lighthouse beach .
With a murmured prayer for help and guidance she pull staunchly away .
It be a long , hard row for the little twelve-year-old arm .
Fortunately there be no wind .
But thicker and thicker come the snow ; finally the kitchen light be hide in it .
For a moment Mary Margaret 's heart sank in despair ; the next it give a joyful bound , for , turn , she saw the dark tower of the lighthouse directly behind her .
By the aid of her lantern she row to the landing , spring out and make her boat fast .
A minute later she be in the lighthouse kitchen .
The door lead to the tower stair be open and at the foot of the stair lay Uncle George , limp and white .
`` Oh , Uncle George , '' gasp Mary Margaret , `` what be the matter ?
What have happen ? ''
`` Mary Margaret !
Thank God !
I be just pray to Him to send somebody to ` tend the light .
Who 's with you ? ''
`` Nobody ... I get frighten because there be no light and I row over .
Mother and Uncle Martin be away . ''
`` You do n't mean to say you row yourself over here alone in the dark and snow !
Well , you be the plucky little girl about this harbour !
It 's a mercy I 've show you how to manage the light .
Run up and start it at once .
Do n't mind about me .
I tumble down those pesky stair like the awkward old fool I be and I 've break my leg and hurt my back so bad I ca n't crawl an inch .
I 've be lie here for three mortal hour and they 've seem like three year .
Hurry with the light , Mary Margaret . ''
Mary Margaret hurry .
Soon the Big Dipper light be once more gleam cheerfully athwart the stormy harbour .
Then she run back to her uncle .
There be not much she could do for him beyond cover him warmly with quilt , place a pillow under his head , and brew him a hot drink of tea .
`` I leave a note for Mother tell her where I 'd go , Uncle George , so I 'm sure Uncle Martin will come right over as soon a they get home . ''
`` He 'll have to hurry .
It 's blow up now ... hear it ... and snow thick .
If your mother and Martin have n't leave the Harbour Head before this , they wo n't leave it tonight .
But , anyhow , the light be lit .
I do n't mind my get smash up compare to that .
I think I 'd go crazy lie here picture to myself a vessel out on the reef . ''
That night be a very long and anxious one .
The storm grow rapidly bad , and snow and wind howl around the lighthouse .
Uncle George soon grow feverish and delirious , and Mary Margaret , between her anxiety for him and her dismal thought of poor Nellie tie in her chair over at the Little Dipper , and the dark possibility of her mother and Uncle Martin be out in the storm , felt almost distract .
But the morning come at last , a morning blessedly will , be the night never so long and anxious , and it dawn fine and clear over a white world .
Mary Margaret run to the shore and gaze eagerly across at the Little Dipper .
No smoke be visible from Uncle Martin 's house !
She could not leave Uncle George , who be rave wildly , and yet it be necessary to obtain assistance somehow .
Suddenly she remember the distress signal .
She must hoist it .
How fortunate that Uncle George have once show her how !
Ten minute later there be a commotion over at Harbour Head where the signal be promptly observe , and very soon -- although it seem long enough to Mary Margaret -- a boat come sail over to the Big Dipper .
When the men land they be meet by a very white-faced little girl who gasp out a rather disjointed story of a light that have n't be light and an uncle with a broken leg and a sister tie in her chair , and would they please see to Uncle George at once , for she must go straight over to the other Dipper ?
One of the men row her over , but before they be halfway there another boat go sail across the harbour , and Mary Margaret saw a woman and two men land from it and hurry up to the house .
That be Mother and Uncle Martin , but who can the other man be ?
wonder Mary Margaret .
When she reach the cottage her mother and Uncle Martin be read her note , and Nellie , just untie from the chair where she have be find fast asleep , be in the arm of a great , big , brown , bewhiskered man .
Mary Margaret just give one look at the man .
Then she fly across the room with a cry of delight .
`` Father ! ''
For ten minute not one intelligible word be say , what with laugh and cry and kiss .
Mary Margaret be the first to recover herself and say briskly , `` Now , do explain , somebody .
Tell me how it all happen . ''
`` Martin and I get back to Harbour Head too late last night to cross over , '' say her mother .
`` It would have be madness to try to cross in the storm , although I be nearly wild thinking of you two child .
It 's well I do n't know the whole truth or I 'd have be simply frantic .
We stay at the Head all night , and first thing this morning come your father . ''
`` We come in last night , '' say Captain Campbell , `` and it be pitch dark , not a light to be see and begin to snow .
We do n't know where we be and I be terribly worry , when all at once the Big Dipper light I 'd be look for so vainly flash out , and everything be all right in a moment .
But , Mary Margaret , if that light have n't appear , we 'd never have get in past the reef .
You 've save your father 's ship and all the life in her , my brave little girl . ''
`` Oh ! ''
Mary Margaret draw a long breath and her eye be starry with tear of happiness .
`` Oh , I 'm so thankful I go over .
And I have to tie Nellie in her chair , Mother , there be no other way .
Uncle George break his leg and be very sick this morning , and there 's no breakfast ready for anyone and the fire black out ... but that do n't matter when Father be safe ... and oh , I 'm so tired ! ''
And then Mary Margaret sit down just for a moment , intend to get right up and help her mother light the fire , lay her head on her father 's shoulder , and fell sound asleep before she ever suspect it .
The Prodigal Brother Miss Hannah be cut aster in her garden .
It be a very small garden , for nothing would grow beyond the shelter of the little , grey , low-eaved house which alone keep the northeast wind from blight everything with salt spray ; but small a it be , it be a miracle of blossom and a marvel of neatness .
The trim brown path be swept clean of every leaf or fall petal , each of the little square bed have it border of big white quahog clamshell , and not even a sweet-pea vine would have dare to straggle from it appoint course under Miss Hannah 's eye .
Miss Hannah have always live in the little grey house down by the shore , so far away from all the other house in Prospect and so shut away from them by a circle of hill that it have a seeming isolation .
Not another house could Miss Hannah see from her own doorstone ; she often declare she could not have bear it if it have not be for the lighthouse beacon at night flaming over the northwest hill behind the house like a great unwinking , friendly star that never fail even on the dark night .
Behind the house a little tongue of the St. Lawrence gulf run up between the headland until the wavelet of it tip almost lap against Miss Hannah 's kitchen doorstep .
Beyond , to the north , be the great crescent of the gulf , whose murmur have be Miss Hannah 's lullaby all her life .
When people wonder to her how she could endure live in such a lonely place , she retort that the loneliness be what she love it for , and that the lighthouse star and the far-away call of the gulf have always be company enough for her and always would be ... until Ralph come back .
When Ralph come home , of course , he might like a lively place and they might move to town or up-country a he wish .
`` Of course , '' say Miss Hannah with a proud smile , `` a rich man might n't fancy live away down here in a little grey house by the shore .
He 'll be for build me a mansion , I expect , and I 'd like it fine .
But until he come I must be content with thing a they be . ''
People always smile to each other when Miss Hannah talk like this .
But they take care not to let her see the smile .
Miss Hannah snip her white and purple aster off ungrudgingly and sang , a she snip , an old-fashioned song she have learn long ago in her youth .
The day be one of October 's rarest , and Miss Hannah love fine day .
The air be clear a golden-hued crystal , and all the slope around her be mellow and hazy in the autumn sunshine .
She know that beyond those sunny slope be wood glory in crimson and gold , and she would have the delight of a walk through them later on when she go to carry the aster to sick Millie Starr at the Bridge .
Flowers be all Miss Hannah have to give , for she be very poor , but she give them with a great wealth of friendliness and goodwill .
Presently a wagon drive down her lane and pull up outside of her white garden paling .
Jacob Delancey be in it , with a pretty young niece of his who be a visitor from the city , and Miss Hannah , her sheaf of aster in her arm , go over to the paling with a sparkle of interest in her faded blue eye .
She have hear a great deal of the beauty of this strange girl .
Prospect people have be talk of nothing else for a week , and Miss Hannah be fill with a harmless curiosity concern her .
She always like to look at pretty people , she say ; they do her a much good a her flower .
`` Good afternoon , Miss Hannah , '' say Jacob Delancey .
`` Busy with your flower , a usual , I see . ''
`` Oh , yes , '' say Miss Hannah , manage to stare with unobtrusive delight at the girl while she talk .
`` The frost will soon be come now , you know ; so I want to live among them as much a I can while they 're here . ''
`` That 's right , '' assent Jacob , who make a profession of cordial agreement with everybody and would have say the same word in the same tone have Miss Hannah announce a predilection for living in the cellar .
`` Well , Miss Hannah , it 's flower I 'm after myself just now .
We 're have a bit of a party at our house tonight , for the young folk , and my wife tell me to call and ask you if you could let u have a few for decoration . ''
`` Of course , '' say Miss Hannah , `` you can have these .
I mean them for Millie , but I can cut the west bed for her . ''
She open the gate and carry the aster over to the buggy .
Miss Delancey take them with a smile that make Miss Hannah remember the date forever .
`` Lovely day , '' comment Jacob genially .
`` Yes , '' say Miss Hannah dreamily .
`` It remind me of the day Ralph go away twenty year ago .
It do n't seem so long .
Do n't you think he 'll be come back soon , Jacob ? ''
`` Oh , sure , '' say Jacob , who think the very opposite .
`` I have a feeling that he 's come very soon , '' say Miss Hannah brightly .
`` It will be a great day for me , wo n't it , Jacob ?
I 've be poor all my life , but when Ralph come back everything will be so different .
He will be a rich man and he will give me everything I 've always want .
He say he would .
A fine house and a carriage and a silk dress .
Oh , and we will travel and see the world .
You do n't know how I look forward to it all .
I 've get it all plan out , all I 'm go to do and have .
And I believe he will be here very soon .
A man ought to be able to make a fortune in twenty year , do n't you think , Jacob ? ''
`` Oh , sure , '' say Jacob .
But he say it a little uncomfortably .
He do not like the job of throw cold water , but it seem to him that he ought not to encourage Miss Hannah 's hope .
`` Of course , you should n't think too much about it , Miss Hannah .
He might n't ever come back , or he might be poor . ''
`` How can you say such thing , Jacob ? ''
interrupted Miss Hannah indignantly , with a little crimson spot flame out in each of her pale cheek .
`` You know quite well he will come back .
I 'm a sure of it a that I 'm stand here .
And he will be rich , too .
People be always try to hint just a you 've do to me , but I do n't mind them .
I know . ''
She turn and go back into her garden with her head hold high .
But her sudden anger float away in a whiff of sweet-pea perfume that strike her in the face ; she wave her hand in farewell to her caller and watch the buggy down the lane with a smile .
`` Of course , Jacob do n't know , and I should n't have snap him up so quick .
It 'll be my turn to crow when Ralph do come .
My , but be n't that girl pretty .
I feel a if I 'd be look at some lovely picture .
It just make a good day of this .
Something pleasant happens to me most every day and that girl be today 's pleasant thing .
I just feel real happy and thankful that there be such beautiful creature in the world and that we can look at them . ''
`` Well , of all the queer delusion ! ''
Jacob Delancey be ejaculate a he and his niece drive down the lane .
`` What be it all about ? ''
ask Miss Delancey curiously .
`` Well , it 's this way , Dorothy .
Long ago Miss Hannah have a brother who run away from home .
It be before their father and mother die .
Ralph Walworth be a wild a young scamp a ever be in Prospect and a spendthrift in the bargain .
Nobody but Hannah have any use for him , and she just worship him .
I must admit he be real fond of her too , but he and his father could n't get on at all .
So finally he ups and run away ; it be generally suppose he go to the mining country .
He leave a note for Hannah bid her goodbye and tell her that he be go to make his fortune and would come back to her a rich man .
There 's never be a word heard tell of him since , and in my opinion it 's doubtful if he 's still alive .
But Miss Hannah , a you saw , be sure and certain he 'll come back yet with gold drop out of his pocket .
She 's as sane a anyone everyway else , but there be no doubt she 's a little crack on that p ` int .
If he never turn up she 'll go on hop quite happy to her death .
But if he should turn up and be poor , a be ten time likelier than anything else , I believe it 'd most kill Miss Hannah .
She 's terrible proud for all she 's so sweet , and you saw yourself how mad she get when I kind of hint he might n't be rich .
If he come back poor , after all her boasting about him , I do n't fancy he 'd get much of a welcome from her .
And she 'd never hold up her head again , that 's certain .
So it 's to be hop , say I , that Ralph Walworth never will turn up , unless he come in a carriage and four , which be about as likely , in my opinion , a that he 'll come in a pumpkin drawn by mouse . ''
When October have pass and the grey November day come , the glory of Miss Hannah 's garden be over .
She be very lonely without her flower .
She miss them more this year than ever .
On fine day she pace up and down the walk and look sadly at the drooping , unsightly stalk and vine .
She be there one afternoon when the northeast wind be up and do , whip the gulf water into whitecap and whistle up the inlet and around the grey eaves .
Miss Hannah be mournfully pat a frosted chrysanthemum under it golden chin when she saw a man limp slowly down the lane .
`` Now , who can that be ? ''
she murmur .
`` It be n't any Prospect man , for there 's nobody lame around here . ''
She go to the garden gate to meet him .
He come haltingly up the slope and pause before her , gaze at her wistfully .
He look old and bent and broken , and his clothes be poor and worn .
Who be he ?
Miss Hannah felt that she ought to know him , and her memory go grope back amongst all her recollection .
Yet she could think of nobody but her father , who have die fifteen year before .
`` Do n't ye know me , Hannah ? ''
say the man wistfully .
`` Have I change so much a all that ? ''
`` Ralph ! ''
It be between a cry and a laugh .
Miss Hannah fly through the gate and catch him in her arm .
`` Ralph , my own dear brother !
Oh , I always know you 'd come back .
If you know how I 've look forward to this day ! ''
She be both laughing and cry now .
Her face shone with a soft gladness .
Ralph Walworth shake his head sadly .
`` It 's a poor wreck of a man I be come back to you , Hannah , '' he say .
`` I 've never accomplish anything and my health 's broken and I 'm a cripple a ye see .
For a time I think I 'd never show my face back here , such a failure a I be , but the longing to see you get too strong .
It 's naught but a wreck I be , Hannah . ''
`` You 're my own dear brother , '' cry Miss Hannah .
`` Do you think I care how poor you be ?
And if your health be poor I 'm the one to nurse you up , who else than your only sister , I 'd like to know !
Come right in .
You 're shiver in this wind .
I 'll mix you a good hot currant drink .
I know them black currant do n't bear so plentiful for nothing last summer .
Oh , this be a good day and no mistake ! ''
In twenty-four hour ' time everybody in Prospect know that Ralph Walworth have come home , cripple and poor .
Jacob Delancey shake his head a he drive away from the station with Ralph 's shabby little trunk stand on end in his buggy .
The station master have ask him to take it down to Miss Hannah 's , and Jacob do not fancy the errand .
He be afraid Miss Hannah would be in a bad way and he do not know what to say to her .
She be in her garden , cover her pansy with seaweed , when he drive up , and she come to the garden gate to meet him , all smile .
`` So you 've bring Ralph 's trunk , Mr. Delancey .
Now , that be real good of you .
He be go over to the station to see about it himself , but he have such a cold I persuade him to wait till tomorrow .
He 's lie down asleep now .
He 's just real tired .
He bring this seaweed up from the shore for me this morning and it play him out .
He ai n't strong .
But do n't I tell you he be come back soon ?
You only laugh at me , but I know . ''
`` He be n't very rich , though , '' say Jacob jokingly .
He be relieve to find that Miss Hannah do not seem to be worry over this .
`` That do n't matter , '' cry Miss Hannah .
`` Why , he 's my brother !
Is n't that enough ?
I 'm rich if he be n't , rich in love and happiness .
And I 'm well please in a way than if he have come back rich .
He might have want to take me away or build a fine house , and I 'm too old to be make change .
And then he would n't have need me .
I 'd have be of no use to him .
As it be , it 's just me he need to look after him and coddle him .
Oh , it 's fine to have somebody to do thing for , somebody that belong to you .
I be just dread the loneliness of the winter , and now it 's go to be such a happy winter .
I declare last night Ralph and I sit up till morning talk over everything .
He 's have a hard life of it .
Bad luck and illness right along .
And last winter in the lumber wood he get his leg break .
But now he 's come home and we 're never go to be part again as long a we live .
I could sing for joy , Jacob . ''
`` Oh , sure , '' assent Jacob cordially .
He felt a little dazed .
Miss Hannah 's nimble change of base be hard for him to follow , and he have an injured sense of have waste a great deal of commiseration on her when she do n't need it at all .
`` Only I kind of thought , we all think , you have such plan . ''
`` Well , they serve their turn , '' interrupt Miss Hannah briskly .
`` They amuse me and keep me interested till something real would come in their place .
If I 'd have to carry them out I dare say they 'd have bother me a lot .
Things be more comfortable a they be .
I 'm happy a a bird , Jacob . ''
`` Oh , sure , '' say Jacob .
He ponder the business deeply all the way back home , but could make nothing of it .
`` But I ai n't oblige to , '' he conclude sensibly .
`` Miss Hannah 's satisfied and happy and it 's nobody else 's concern .
However , I call it a curious thing . ''
The Redemption of John Churchill John Churchill walk slowly , not a a man walk who be tire , or content to saunter for the pleasure of it , but a one in no haste to reach his destination through dread of it .
The day be well on to late afternoon in mid-spring , and the world be abloom .
Before him and behind him wind a road that run like a red ribbon through field of lush clovery green .
The orchard scatter along it be white and fragrant , give of their incense to a merry south-west wind ; fence-corner nook be purple with patch of violet or golden-green with the curly head of young fern .
The roadside be sprinkle over with the gold dust of dandelion and the pale star of wild strawberry blossom .
It seem a day through which a man should walk lightly and blithely , look the world and his fellow frankly in the face , and open his heart to let the springtime in .
But John Churchill walk laggingly , with bent head .
When he meet other wayfarer or be pass by them , he do not lift his face , but only glance up under his eyebrow with a furtive look that be replace by a sort of shamed relief when they have pass on without recognize him .
Some of them he know for friend of the old time .
Ten year have not change them a he have be change .
They have spend those ten year in freedom and good repute , under God 's blue sky , in His glad air and sunshine .
He , John Churchill , have spend them behind the wall of a prison .
His close-clipped hair be grey ; his figure , encase in an ill-fitting suit of coarse cloth , be stoop and shrink ; his face be deeply line ; yet he be not an old man in year .
He be only forty ; he be thirty when he have be convict of embezzle the bank fund for purpose of speculation and have be send to prison , leave behind a wife and father who be broken-hearted and a sister whose pride have suffer more than her heart .
He have never see them since , but he know what have happen in his absence .
His wife have die two month later , leave behind her a baby boy ; his father have die within the year .
He have kill them ; he , John Churchill , who love them , have kill them as surely a though his hand have strike them down in cold blood .
His sister have take the baby , his little son whom he have never see , but for whom he have prepare such a birthright of dishonour .
She have never forgive her brother and she never write to him .
He know that she would have bring the boy up either in ignorance of his father 's crime or in utter detestation of it .
When he come back to the world after his imprisonment , there be not a single friendly hand to clasp his and help him struggle up again .
The best his friend have be able to do for him be to forget him .
He be fill with bitterness and despair and a gnawing hatred of the world of brightness around him .
He have no place in it ; he be an ugly blot on it .
He be a friendless , wifeless , homeless man who could not so much a look his fellow men in the face , who must henceforth consort with outcast .
In his extremity he hat God and man , burn with futile resentment against both .
Only one feeling of tenderness yet remain in his heart ; it centre around the thought of his little son .
When he leave the prison he have make up his mind what to do .
He have a little money which his father have leave him , enough to take him west .
He would go there , under a new name .
There would be novelty and adventure to blot out the memory of the old year .
He do not care what become of him , since there be no one else to care .
He know in his heart that his future career would probably lead him still far and far downward , but that do not matter .
If there have be anybody to care , he might have think it worthwhile to struggle back to respectability and trample his shame under foot that should henceforth walk only in the way of honour and honesty .
But there be nobody to care .
So he would go to his own place .
But first he must see little Joey , who must be quite a big boy now , nearly ten year old .
He would go home and see him just once , even although he dread meet aversion in the child 's eye .
Then , when he have bid him good-bye , and , with him , good-bye to all that remain to make for good in his desolated existence , he would go out of his life forever .
`` I 'll go straight to the devil then , '' he say sullenly .
`` That 's where I belong , a jail-bird at whom everybody except other jail-birds look askance .
To think what I be once , and what I be now !
It 's enough to drive a man mad !
As for repenting , bah !
Who 'd believe that I really repent , who 'd give me a second chance on the faith of it ?
Not a soul .
Repentance wo n't blot out the past .
It wo n't give me back my wife whom I love above everything on earth and whose heart I break .
It wo n't restore me my unstained name and my right to a place among honourable men .
There 's no chance for a man who have fall as low a I have .
If Emily be live , I could struggle for her sake .
But who 'd be fool enough to attempt such a fight with no motive and not one chance of success in a hundred .
Not I. I 'm down and I 'll stay down .
There 's no climb up again . ''
He celebrate his first day of freedom by get drunk , although he have never before be an intemperate man .
Then , when the effect of the debauch wore off , he take the train for Alliston ; he would go home and see little Joey once .
Nobody at the station where he alight recognize him or pay any attention to him .
He be a a dead man who have come back to life to find himself efface from recollection and his place know him no more .
It be three mile from the station to where his sister live , and he resolve to walk the distance .
Now that the critical moment draw near , he shrink from it and wish to put it off as long a he could .
When he reach his sister 's home he halt on the road and survey the place over it snug respectability of iron fence .
His courage fail him at the thought of walk over that trim lawn and knocking at that close front door .
He would slip around by the back way ; perhaps , who know , he might come upon Joey without run the gauntlet of his sister 's cold , offend eye .
If he might only find the boy and talk to him for a little while without betray his identity , meet his son 's clear gaze without the danger of find scorn or fear in it -- his heart beat high at the thought .
He walk furtively up the back way between high , screen hedge of spruce .
When he come to the gate of the yard , he pause .
He hear voice just beyond the thick hedge , child 's voice , and he creep as near a he could to the sound and peer through the hedge , with a choke sensation in his throat and a smart in his eye .
Was that Joey , could that be his little son ?
Yes , it be ; he would have know him anywhere by his likeness to Emily .
Their boy have her curly brown hair , her sensitive mouth , above all , her clear-gazing , truthful grey eye , eye in which there be never a shadow of falsehood or faltering .
Joey Churchill be sit on a stone bench in his aunt 's kitchen yard , hold one of his black-stockinged knee between his small , brown hand .
Jimmy Morris be stand opposite to him , his back brace against the trunk of a big , pink-blossomed apple tree , his hand in his pocket , and a scowl on his freckled face .
Jimmy live next door to Joey and a a rule they be very good friend , but this afternoon they have quarrel over the right and proper way to construct an Indian ambush in the fir grove behind the pig-house .
The argument be long and warm and finally culminate in personality .
Just a John Churchill drop on one knee behind the hedge , the good to see Joey 's face , Jimmy Morris say scornfully : `` I do n't care what you say .
Nobody believe you .
Your father be in the penitentiary . ''
The taunt strike home a it always do .
It be not the first time that Joey have be twit with his father by his boyish companion .
But never before by Jimmy !
It always hurt him , and he have never before make any response to it .
His face would flush crimson , his lip would quiver , and his big grey eye darken miserably with the shadow that be on his life ; he would turn away in silence .
But that Jimmy , his best beloved chum , should say such a thing to him ; oh , it hurt terribly .
There be nothing so merciless a a small boy .
Jimmy saw his advantage and vindictively pursue it .
`` Your father stole money , that 's what he do !
You know he do .
I 'm pretty glad my father be n't a thief .
Your father be .
And when he get out of prison , he 'll go on steal again .
My father say he will .
Nobody 'll have anything to do with him , my father say .
His own sister wo n't have anything to do with him .
So there , Joey Churchill ! ''
`` There will somebody have something to do with him ! ''
cry Joey hotly .
He slide off the bench and face Jimmy proudly and confidently .
The unseen watcher on the other side of the hedge saw his face grow white and intense and set-lipped , a if it have be the face of a man .
The grey eye be alight with a steady , fearless glow . ''
I 'll have something to do with him .
He be my father and I love him .
I do n't care what he do , I love him just as well a if he be the best man in the world .
I love him good than if he be as good a your father , because he need it more .
I 've always love him ever since I find out about him .
I 'd write to him and tell him so , if Aunt Beatrice would tell me where to send the letter .
Aunt Beatrice wo n't ever talk about him or let me talk about him , but I think about him all the time .
And he 's go to be a good man yet , yes , he be , just as good a your father , Jimmy Morris .
I 'm go to make him good .
I make up my mind year ago what I would do and I 'm go to do it , so there , Jimmy . ''
`` I do n't see what you can do , '' mutter Jimmy , already ashamed of what he have say and wish he have let Joey 's father alone .
`` I 'll tell you what I can do ! ''
Joey be confront all the world now , with his head throw back and his face flush with his earnestness .
`` I can love him and stand by him , and I will .
When he get out of -- of prison , he 'll come to see me , I know he will .
And I 'm just go to hug him and kiss him and say , ` Never mind , Father .
I know you 're sorry for what you 've do , and you 're never go to do it any more .
You 're go to be a good man and I 'm go to stand by you . '
Yes , sir , that 's just what I 'm go to say to him .
I 'm all the child he have and there 's nobody else to love him , because I know Aunt Beatrice do n't .
And I 'm go with him wherever he go . ''
`` You ca n't , '' say Jimmy in a scared tone .
`` Your Aunt Beatrice wo n't let you . ''
`` Yes , she will .
She 'll have to .
I belong to my father .
And I think he 'll be come pretty soon some way .
I 'm pretty sure the time must be ` most up .
I wish he would come .
I want to see him as much a can be , 'cause I know he 'll need me .
And I 'll be proud of him yet , Jimmy Morris , yes , I 'll be just as proud a you be of your father .
When I get big , nobody will call my father name , I can tell you .
I 'll fight them if they do , yes , sir , I will .
My father and I be go to stand by each other like brick .
Aunt Beatrice have lot of child of her own and I do n't believe she 'll be a bit sorry when I go away .
She 's ashamed of my father 'cause he do a bad thing .
But I 'm not , no , sir .
I 'm go to love him so much that I 'll make up to him for everything else .
And you can just go home , Jimmy Morris , so there ! ''
Jimmy Morris go home , and when he have go , Joey fling himself face downward in the grass and fall apple blossom and lay very still .
On the other side of the spruce hedge kneel John Churchill with bow head .
The tear be run freely down his face , but there be a new , tender light in his eye .
The bitterness and despair have fall out of his heart , leave a great peace and a dawn hope in their place .
Bless that loyal little soul !
There be something to live for after all -- there be a motive to make the struggle worthwhile .
He must justify his son 's faith in him ; he must strive to make himself worthy of this sweet , pure , unselfish love that be offer to him , a a divine draught be offer to the parch lip of a man perish from thirst .
Aye , and , God help him , he would .
He would redeem the past .
He would go west , but under his own name .
His little son should go with him ; he would work hard ; he would pay back the money he have embezzle , a much of it a he could , if it take the rest of his life to do so .
For his boy 's sake he must cleanse his name from the dishonour he have bring on it .
Oh , thank God , there be somebody to care , somebody to love him , somebody to believe him when he say humbly , `` I repent . ''
Under his breath he say , look heavenward : `` God be merciful to me , a sinner . ''
Then he stand up erectly , go through the gate and over the grass to the motionless little figure with it face bury in it arm .
`` Joey boy , '' he say huskily .
`` Joey boy . ''
Joey sprang to his foot with tear still glisten in his eye .
He saw before him a bent , grey-headed man look at him lovingly and wistfully .
Joey know who it be -- the father he have never see .
With a glad cry of welcome he spring into the outstretched arm of the man whom his love have already win back to God .
The Schoolmaster 's Letters At sunset the schoolmaster go up to his room to write a letter to her .
He always write to her at the same time -- when the red wave of the sunset , flame over the sea , surge in at the little curtainless window and flow over the page he write on .
The light be rose-red and imperial and spiritual , like his love for her , and seem almost to dye the word of the letter in it own splendid hue -- the letter to her which she never be to see , whose word her eye never be to read , and whose love and golden fancy and rainbow dream never be to be so much a know by her .
And it be because she never be to see them that he dare to write them , straight out of his full heart , take the exquisite pleasure of tell her what he never could permit himself to tell her face to face .
Every evening he write thus to her , and the hour so spent glorify the entire day .
The rest of the hour -- all the other hour of the commonplace day -- he be merely a poor schoolmaster with a long struggle before him , one who might not lift his eye to gaze on a star .
But at this hour he be her equal , meet her soul to soul , tell out a a man might all his great love for her , and wear the jewel of it on his brow .
What wonder indeed that the precious hour which make him a king , crown with a mighty and unselfish passion , be above all thing sacred to him ?
And doubly sacred when , a tonight , it follow upon an hour spent with her ?
Its mingled delight and pain be almost more than he could bear .
He go through the kitchen and the hall and up the narrow staircase with a glory in his eye that thus be hold from see his sordid surroundings .
Link Houseman , sprawl out on the platform before the kitchen door , saw him pas with that rapt face , and chuckle .
Link be ill enough to look at any time , with his sharp , freckled feature and foxy eye .
When he chuckle his face be that of an unholy imp .
But the schoolmaster take no heed of him .
Neither do he heed the girl whom he meet in the hall .
Her handsome , sullen face flush crimson under the sting of his utter disregard , and her black eye follow him up the stair with a look that be not good to see .
`` Sis , '' whisper Link piercingly , `` come out here !
I 've get a joke to tell you , something about the master and his girl .
You ai n't to let on to him you know , though .
I find it out last night when he be off to the shore .
That old key of Uncle Jim 's be just the thing .
He 's a softy , and no mistake . ''
* * * * * Upstairs in his little room , the schoolmaster be write his letter .
The room be a bare and graceless a all the other room of the farmhouse where he have board during his term of teaching ; but it look out on the sea , and be hang with such priceless tapestry of his iris dream and vision that it be to him an apartment in a royal palace .
From it he gaze afar on bay that be like great cup of sapphire brimming over with ruby wine for god to drain , on headland that be like amethyst , on wide sweep of sea that be blue and far and mysterious ; and ever the moan and call of the ocean 's heart come up to his heart a of one great , hopeless love and long cry out to another love and longing , a great and hopeless .
And here , in the rose-radiance of the sunset , with the sea-music in the dim air , he write his letter to her .
My Lady : How beautiful it be to think that there be nothing to prevent my love you !
There be much -- everything -- to prevent me from tell you that I love you .
But nothing have any right to come between my heart and it own ; it be permit to love you forever and ever and serve and reverence you in secret and silence .
For so much , dear , I thank life , even though the price of the permission must always be the secret and the silence .
I have just come from you , my lady .
Your voice be still in my ear ; your eye be still look into mine , gravely yet half smilingly , sweetly yet half provokingly .
Oh , how dear and human and girlish and queenly you be -- half saint and half very womanly woman !
And how I love you with all there be of me to love -- heart and soul and brain , every fibre of body and spirit thrilling to the wonder and marvel and miracle of it !
You do not know it , my sweet , and you must never know it .
You would not even wish to know it , for I be nothing to you but one of many friend , come into your life briefly and pass out of it , of no more account to you than a sunshiny hour , a bird 's song , a bursting bud in your garden .
But the hour and the bird and the flower give you a little delight in their turn , and when you remember them once before forgetting , that be their reward and blessing .
That be all I ask , dear lady , and I ask that only in my own heart .
I be content to love you and be forget .
It be sweet to love you and be forget than it would be to love any other woman and live in her lifelong remembrance : so humble have love make me , sweet , so great be my sense of my own unworthiness .
Yet love must find expression in some fashion , dear , else it be only pain , and hence these letter to you which you will never read .
I put all my heart into them ; they be the best and high of me , the bud of a love that can never bloom openly in the sunshine of your life .
I weave a chaplet of them , dear , and crown you with it .
They will never fade , for such love be eternal .
It be a whole summer since I first meet you .
I have be wait for you all my life before and do not know it .
But I know it when you come and bring with you a sense of completion and fulfilment .
This have be the precious year of my life , the turning-point to which all thing past tend and all thing future must look back .
Oh , my dear , I thank you for this year !
It have be your royal gift to me , and I shall be rich and great forever because of it .
Nothing can ever take it from me , nothing can mar it .
It be well to have live a lifetime of loneliness for such a boon -- the price would not be too high .
I would not give my one perfect summer for a generation of other men 's happiness .
There be those in the world who would laugh at me , who would pity me , Una .
They would say that the love I have pour out in secret at your foot have be waste , that I be a poor weak fool to squander all my treasure of affection on a woman who do not care for me and who be a far above me a that great white star that be shin over the sea .
Oh , my dear , they do not know , they can not understand .
The love I have give you have not leave me poor .
It have enrich my life unspeakably ; it have open my eye and give me the gift of clear vision for those thing that matter ; it have be a lamp held before my stumbling foot whereby I have avoid snare and pitfall of baser passion and unworthy dream .
For all this I thank you , dear , and for all this surely the utmost that I can give of love and reverence and service be not too much .
I could not have help love you .
But if I could have help it , know with just what measure of pain and joy it would brim my cup , I would have choose to love you , Una .
There be those who strive to forget a hopeless love .
To me , the great misfortune that life could bring would be that I should forget you .
I want to remember you always and love you and long for you .
That would be unspeakably well than any happiness that could come to me through forgetting .
Dear lady , good night .
The sun have set ; there be now but one fiery dimple on the horizon , a if a golden finger have dent it -- now it be go ; the mist be come up over the sea .
A kiss on each of your white hand , dear .
Tonight I be too humble to lift my thought to your lip .
The schoolmaster fold up his letter and hold it against his cheek for a little space while he gaze out on the silver-shining sea with his dark eye full of dream .
Then he take from his shabby trunk a little inlaid box and unlock it with a twisted silver key .
It be full of letter -- his letter to Una .
The first have be write month ago , in the early promise of a northern spring .
They link together the golden week of the summer .
Now , in the purple autumn , the box be full , and the schoolmaster 's term be nearly end .
He take out the letter reverently and look over them , now and then murmur below his breath some passage scatter through the write page .
He have lay bare his heart in those letter , write out what he never could have tell her , even if his love have be know and return , for dead and go generation of stern and repressed forefather lay their unyielding finger of reserve on his lip , and the shyness of dreamy , book-bred youth stem the language of eye and tone .
I will love you forever and ever .
And even though you know it not , surely such love will hover around you all your life .
Like an invisible benediction , not understood but dimly felt , guard you from ill and keep far from you all thing and thought of harm and evil !
* * * * * Sometimes I let myself dream .
And in those dream you love me , and we go out to meet life together .
I have dream that you kiss me -- dream it so reverently that the dream do your womanhood no wrong .
I have dream that you put your hand in mine and say , `` I love you . ''
Oh , the rapture of it !
* * * * * We may give all we will if we do not ask for a return .
There should be no barter in love .
If , by reason of the greatness of my love for you , I be to ask your love in return , I should be a base creature .
It be only because I be content to love and serve for the sake of loving and serve that I have the right to love you .
* * * * * I have a memory of a blush of yours -- a rise of the year that will bloom forever in my garden of remembrance .
Tonight you blush when I come upon you suddenly among the flower .
You be startle -- perhaps I have break too rudely on some girlish musing ; and straightway your round , pale curve of cheek and your white arch of brow be make rosy a with the dawn of beautiful sunrise .
I shall see you forever a you look at that time .
In my mad moment I shall dream , know all the while that it be only a dream , that you blush with delight at my come .
I shall be able to picture forevermore how you would look at one you love .
* * * * * Tonight the moon be low in the west .
It hang over the sea like a shallop of ruddy gold moor to a star in the harbour of the night .
I linger long and watch it , for I know that you , too , be watch it from your window that look on the sea .
You tell me once that you always watch the moon set .
It have be a bond between u ever since .
* * * * * This morning I rise at dawn and walk on the shore to think of you , because it seem the most fitting time .
It be before sunrise , and the world be virgin .
All the east be a shimmer of silver and the morning star float in it like a dissolve pearl .
The sea be a great miracle .
I walk up and down by it and say your name over and over again .
The hour be sacred to you .
It be a pure and unspoiled a your own soul .
Una , who will bring into your life the sunrise splendour and colour of love ?
* * * * * Do you know how beautiful you be , Una ?
Let me tell you , dear .
You be tall , yet you have to lift your eye a little to meet mine .
Such dear eye , Una !
They be dark blue , and when you smile they be like wet violet in sunshine .
But when you be pensive they be more lovely still -- the spirit and enchantment of the sea at twilight pass into them then .
Your hair have the gloss and brownness of ripe nut , and your face be always pale .
Your lip have a trick of fall apart in a half-smile when you listen .
They tell me before I know you that you be pretty .
Pretty !
The word be cheap and tawdry .
You be beautiful , with the beauty of a pearl or a star or a white flower .
* * * * * Do you remember our first meeting ?
It be one evening last spring .
You be in your garden .
The snow have not all go , but your hand be full of pale , early flower .
You wear a white shawl over your shoulder and head .
Your face be turn upward a little , listen to a robin 's call in the leafless tree above you .
I think God have never make anything so lovely and love-deserving .
I love you from that moment , Una .
* * * * * This be your birthday .
The world have be glad of you for twenty year .
It be fit that there have be bird song and sunshine and blossom today , a great light and fragrance over land and sea .
This morning I go far afield to a long , lonely valley lie to the west , girt round about with dim old pine , where foot of men seldom tread , and there I search until I find some rare flower meet to offer you .
I send them to you with a little book , an old book .
A new book , savouring of the shop and marketplace , however beautiful it might be , would not do for you .
So I send the book that be my mother 's .
She read it and love it -- the faded rose-leaves she place in it be there still .
At first , dear , I almost fear to send it .
Would you miss it meaning ?
Would you laugh a little at the shabby volume with it pencil mark and it rose-leaves ?
But I know you would not ; I know you would understand .
* * * * * Today I saw you with the child of your sister in your arm .
I felt a the old painter must have felt when they paint their Madonnas .
You bend over his shin golden head , and on your face be the mother passion and tenderness that be God 's finish touch to the beauty of womanhood .
The next moment you be laugh with him -- two child play together .
But I have look upon you in that brief space .
Oh , the pain and joy of it !
* * * * * It be so sweet , dear , to serve you a little , though it be only in open a door for you to pass through , or hand you a book or a sheet of music !
Love wish to do so much for the beloved !
I can do so little for you , but that little be sweet .
* * * * * This evening I read to you the poem which you have ask me to read .
You sit before me with your brown head lean on your hand and your eye cast down .
I steal dear glance at you between the line .
When I finish I put a red , red rise from your garden between the page and crush the book close on it .
That poem will always be dear to me , stain with the life-blood of a rose-like hour .
* * * * * I do not know which be the sweeter , your laughter or your sadness .
When you laugh you make me glad , but when you be sad I want to share in your sadness and soothe it .
I think I be nearer to you in your sorrowful mood .
* * * * * Today I meet you by accident at the turn of the lane .
Nothing tell me that you be come -- not even the wind , that should have know .
I be sad , and then all at once I saw you , and wonder how I could have be sad .
You walk past me with a smile , a if you have toss me a rise .
I stand and watch you out of sight .
That meeting be the purple gift the day give me .
* * * * * Today I try to write a poem to you , Una , but I could not find word fine enough , a a lover could find no raiment dainty enough for his bride .
The old word other men have use in sing to their love seem too worn and common for you .
I want only new word , crystal clear or colour only by the iris of the light , not word that have be steep and stain with all the hue of other men 's thought .
So I burn the verse that be so unworthy of you .
* * * * * Una , some day you will love .
You will watch for him ; you will blush at his come , be sad at his go .
Oh , I can not think of it !
* * * * * Today I saw you when you do not see me .
I be walk on the shore , and a I come around a rock you be sit on the other side .
I draw back a little and look at you .
Your hand be clasp over your knee ; your hat have fall back , and the sea wind be ruffle your hair .
Your face be lift to the sky , your lip be part , your eye be full of light .
You seem to be listen to something that make you happy .
I creep gently away , that I might not mar your dream .
Of what be you think , Una ?
* * * * * I must leave you soon .
Sometimes I think I can not bear it .
Oh , Una , how selfish it be of me to wish that you might love me !
Yet I do wish it , although I have nothing to offer you but a great love and all my willing work of hand and brain .
If you love me , I fear I should be weak enough to do you the wrong of woo you .
I want you so much , dear !
The schoolmaster add the last letter to the others and lock the box .
When he unlock it again , two day later , the letter be go .
He gaze at the empty box with dilated eye .
At first he could not realize what have happen .
The letter could not be go !
He must have make a mistake , have put them in some other place !
With tremble finger he ransack his trunk .
There be no trace of the letter .
With a groan he drop his face in his hand and try to think .
His letter be go -- those precious letter , hold almost too sacred for his own eye to read after they be write -- have be steal from him !
The inmost secret of his soul have be betray .
Who have do this hideous thing ?
He rise and go downstairs .
In the farmyard he find Link torment his dog .
Link be happy only when he be torment something .
He never have be afraid of anything in his life before , but now absolute terror take possession of him at sight of the schoolmaster 's face .
Physical strength and force have no power to frighten the sullen lad , but all the irresistible might of a fine soul rouse to frenzy look out in the young man 's blazing eye , dilate nostril , and tense white mouth .
It cow the boy , because it be something he could not understand .
He only realize that he be in the presence of a force that be not to be trifle with .
`` Link , where be my letter ? ''
say the schoolmaster .
`` I do n't take 'em , Master ! ''
cry Link , crumple up visibly in his sheer terror .
`` I do n't .
I never teched 'em !
It be Sis .
I tell her not to -- I tell her you 'd be awful mad , but she would n't tend to me .
It be Sis take 'em .
Ask her , if you do n't believe me . ''
The schoolmaster believe him .
Nothing be too horrible to believe just then .
`` What have she do with them ? ''
he say hoarsely .
`` She -- she send 'em to Una Clifford , '' whimper Link .
`` I tell her not to .
She 's mad at you , cause you go to see Una and would n't go with her .
She think Una would be mad at you for write 'em , cause the Cliffords be so proud and think themselves above everybody else .
So she send 'em .
I -- I tell her not to . ''
The schoolmaster say not another word .
He turn his back on the whining boy and go to his room .
He felt sick with shame .
The indecency of the whole thing revolt him .
It be a if his naked heart have be tear from his breast and hold up to the jeer of a vulgar world by the merciless hand of a scorned and jealous woman .
He felt stun a if by a physical blow .
After a time his fierce anger and shame die into a calm desperation .
The deed be do beyond recall .
It only remain for him to go to Una , tell her the truth , and implore her pardon .
Then he must go from her sight and presence forever .
* * * * * It be dusk when he go to her home .
They tell him that she be in the garden , and he find her there , stand at the curve of the box walk , among the last late-blooming flower of the summer .
Have you think from his letter that she be a wonderful woman of marvellous beauty ?
Not so .
She be a sweet and slender slip of girlhood , with girlhood 's own charm and freshness .
There be thousand like her in the world -- thank God for it !
-- but only one like her in one man 's eye .
He stand before her mute with shame , his boyish face white and haggard .
She have blush crimson all over her dainty paleness at sight of him , and lay her hand quickly on the breast of her white gown .
Her eye be downcast and her breath come shortly .
He think her silence the silence of anger and scorn .
He wish that he might fling himself in the dust at her foot .
`` Una -- Miss Clifford -- forgive me ! ''
he stammer miserably .
`` I -- I do not send them .
I never mean that you should see them .
A shameful trick have be play upon me .
Forgive me ! ''
`` For what be I to forgive you ? ''
she ask gravely .
She do not look up , but her lip part in the little half-smile he love .
The blush be still on her face .
`` For my presumption , '' he whisper .
`` I -- I could not help love you , Una .
If you have read the letter you know all the rest . ''
`` I have read the letter , every word , '' she answer , press her hand a little more closely to her breast .
`` Perhaps I should not have do so , for I soon discover that they be not mean for me to read .
I think at first you have send them , although the writing of the address on the packet do not look like yours ; but even when I know you do not I could not help read them all .
I do not know who send them , but I be very grateful to the sender . ''
`` Grateful ? ''
he say wonderingly .
`` Yes .
I have something to forgive you , but not -- not your presumption .
It be your blindness , I think -- and -- and your cruel resolution to go away and never tell me of your -- your love for me .
If it have not be for the sending of these letter I might never have know .
How can I forgive you for that ? ''
`` Una ! ''
he say .
He have be very blind , but he be begin to see .
He take a step nearer and take her hand .
She throw up her head and gaze , blushingly , steadfastly , into his eye .
From the fold of her gown she draw forth the little packet of letter and kiss it .
`` Your dear letter ! ''
she say bravely .
`` They have give me the right to speak out .
I will speak out !
I love you , dear !
I will be content to wait through long year until you can claim me .
I -- I have be so happy since your letter come ! ''
He put his arm around her and draw her head close to his .
Their lip meet .
The Story of Uncle Dick I have two school offer me that summer , one at Rocky Valley and one at Bayside .
At first I incline to Rocky Valley ; it possess a railway station and be nearer the centre of business and educational activity .
But eventually I choose Bayside , think that it country quietude would be a good thing for a student who be make school-teaching the stepping-stone to a college course .
I have reason to be glad of my choice , for in Bayside I meet Uncle Dick .
Ever since it have seem to me that not to have know Uncle Dick would have be to miss a great sweetness and inspiration from my life .
He be one of those rare soul whose friendship be at once a pleasure and a benediction , shower light from their own crystal clearness into all the dark corner in the soul of others until , for the time be at least , they reflect his own simplicity and purity .
Uncle Dick could no more help bring delight into the life of his associate than could the sunshine or the west wind or any other of the best boon of nature .
I have be in Bayside three week before I meet him , although his farm adjoin the one where I board and I pass at a little distance from his house every day in my short cut across the field to school .
I even pass his garden unsuspectingly for a week , never dream that behind that rank of leafy , rustle poplar lay a veritable `` God 's acre '' of loveliness and fragrance .
But one day a I go by , a whiff of something sweeter than the odour of Araby brush my face and , follow the wind that have blow it through the poplar , I go up to the white paling and find there a trellis of honeysuckle , and beyond it Uncle Dick 's garden .
Thereafter I daily pass close by the fence that I might have the privilege of look over it .
It would be hard to define the charm of that garden .
It do not consist in order or system , for there be no trace of either , except , perhaps , in that prim row of poplar grow about the whole domain and shut it away from all idle and curious eye .
For the rest , I think the real charm must have be in it unexpectedness .
At every turn and in every nook you stumble on some miracle of which you have never dream .
Or perhaps the charm be simply that the whole garden be an expression of Uncle Dick 's personality .
In one corner a little green dory , fill with earth , overflow in a wave of gay annual .
In the centre of the garden an old birch-bark canoe seem sail through a sea of blossom , with a many-coloured freight of geranium .
Paths twist and turn among flower shrub , and clump of old-fashioned perennial be mingle with the late fad of the floral catalogue .
The mid-garden be a pool of sunshine , with finely sift wind purr over it , but under the poplar there be shadow and grow thing that love the shadow , crowd about the old stone bench at each side .
Somehow , my daily glimpse of Uncle Dick 's garden soon come to symbolize for me a mean easy to translate into life and soul than into word .
It be a power for good within me , make it influence felt in many way .
Finally I catch Uncle Dick in his garden .
On my way home one evening I find him on his knee among the rosebush , and as soon a he saw me he spring up and come forward with outstretched hand .
He be a tall man of about fifty , with grizzled hair , but not a thread of silver yet show itself in the ripple of his long brown beard .
Later I discover that his splendid beard be Uncle Dick 's only vanity .
So fine and silky be it that it do not hide the candid , sensitive curve of his mouth , around which a mellow smile , ting with kindly , quizzical humour , always linger .
His face be tan even more deeply than be usual among farmer , for he have an inveterate habit of go about hatless in the most merciless sunshine ; but the line of forehead under his hair be white a milk , and his eye be darkly blue and as tender a a woman 's .
`` How do you do , Master ? ''
he say heartily .
-LRB- The Bayside pedagogue be invariably address a `` Master '' by young and old . -RRB-
`` I 'm glad to see you .
Here I be , try to save my rosebush .
There be green bug on 'em , Master -- green bug , and they 're worry the life out of me . ''
I smile , for Uncle Dick look very unlike a worrying man , even over such a serious accident a green bug .
`` Your rose do n't seem to mind , Mr. Oliver , '' I say .
`` They be the fine I have ever see . ''
The compliment to his rose , well-deserved a it be , do not at first engage his attention .
He pretend to frown at me .
`` Do n't get into any bad habit of mistering me , Master , '' he say .
`` You 'd better begin by call me Uncle Dick from the start and then you wo n't have the trouble of change .
Because it would come to that -- it always do .
But come in , come in !
There 's a gate round here .
I want to get acquaint with you .
I have a taste for schoolmaster .
I do n't possess it when I be a boy '' -LRB- a glint of fun appear in his blue eye -RRB- .
`` It 's an acquired taste . ''
I accept his invitation and go , not only into his garden but , a be prove later , into his confidence and affection .
He link his arm with mine and pilot me about to show me his pet .
`` I potter about this garden considerable , '' he say .
`` It please the woman folk to have lot of posy . ''
I laugh , for Uncle Dick be a bachelor and consider to be a hopeless one .
`` Do n't laugh , Master , '' he say , press my arm .
`` I 've no woman folk of my own about me now , 't be true .
But all the girl in the district come to Uncle Dick when they want flower for their little diversion .
Besides -- perhaps -- sometimes -- '' Uncle Dick break off and stand in a brown study , look at an old stump aflame with nasturtium for fully three minute .
Later on I be to learn the significance of that pause and reverie .
I spend the whole evening with Uncle Dick .
After we have explore the garden he take me into his house and into his `` den . ''
The house be a small white one and wonderfully neat inside , consider the fact that Uncle Dick be his own housekeeper .
His `` den '' be a comfortable place , it one window so shadow by a huge poplar that the room have a grotto-like effect of emerald gloom .
I come to know it well , for , at Uncle Dick 's invitation , I do my studying there and browse at will among his classic .
We soon become close friend .
Uncle Dick have always `` chummed with the master , '' a he say , but our friendship go deep .
For my own part , I prefer his company to that of any young man I know .
There be a perennial spring of youth in Uncle Dick 's soul that yet have all the fascinating flavour of ripe experience .
He be clever , kindly , humorous and , withal , so crystal clear of mind and heart that an atmosphere partaking of childhood hung around him .
I know Uncle Dick 's outward history a the Bayside people know it .
It be not a very eventful one .
He have lose his father in boyhood ; before that there have be some idea of Dick 's go to college .
After his father 's death he seem quietly to have put all such hope away and settle down to look after the farm and take care of his invalid stepmother .
This woman , a I learn from others , but never from Uncle Dick , have be a peevish , fretful , exacting creature , and for nearly thirty year Uncle Dick have be a very slave to her whim and caprice .
`` Nobody know what he have to put up with , for he never complain , '' Mrs. Lindsay , my landlady , tell me .
`` She be out of her mind once and she be liable to go out of it again if she be cross in anything .
He be that good and patient with her .
She be dreadful fond of him too , for all she do almost worry his life out .
No doubt she be the reason he never marry .
He could n't leave her and he know no woman would go in there .
Uncle Dick never court anyone , unless it be Rose Lawrence .
She be a cousin of my man 's .
I 've hear he have a kindness for her ; it be year ago , before I come to Bayside .
But anyway , nothing come of it .
Her father 's health fail and he have to go out to California .
Rose have to go with him , her mother be dead , and that be the end of Uncle Dick 's love affair . ''
But that be not the end of it , a I discover when Uncle Dick give me his confidence .
One evening I go over and , pilot by the sound of shriek and laughter , find Uncle Dick career about the garden , pursue by half a dozen schoolgirl who be pelt him with overblown rose .
At sight of the master my pupil instantly become prim and demure and , gather up their flowery spoil , they beat a hasty retreat down the lane .
`` Those little girl be very sweet , '' say Uncle Dick abruptly .
`` Little blossom of life !
Have you ever wonder , Master , why I have n't some of my own blooming about the old place instead of just look over the fence of other men 's garden , covet their human rose ? ''
`` Yes , I have , '' I answer frankly .
`` It have be a puzzle to me why you , Uncle Dick , who seem to me fit above all men I have ever know for love and husbandhood and fatherhood , should have elect to live your life alone . ''
`` It have not be a matter of choice , '' say Uncle Dick gently .
`` We ca n't always order our life a we would , Master .
I love a woman once and she love me .
And we love each other still .
Do you think I could bear life else ?
I 've an interest in it that the Bayside folk know nothing of .
It have keep youth in my heart and joy in my soul through long , lonely year .
And it 's not end yet , Master -- it 's not end yet !
Some day I hope to bring a wife here to my old house -- my wife , my rise of joy ! ''
He be silent for a space , gaze at the star .
I too keep silence , fear to intrude into the holy place of his thought , although I be tingle with interest in this unsuspected outflowering of romance in Uncle Dick 's life .
After a time he say gently , `` Shall I tell you about it , Master ?
I mean , do you care to know ? ''
`` Yes , '' I answer , `` I do care to know .
And I shall respect your confidence , Uncle Dick . ''
`` I know that .
I could n't tell you , otherwise , '' he say .
`` I do n't want the Bayside folk to know -- it would be a kind of desecration .
They would laugh and joke me about it , a they tease other people , and I could n't bear that .
Nobody in Bayside know or suspect , unless it 's old Joe Hammond at the post office .
And he have keep my secret , or what he know of it , well .
But somehow I feel that I 'd like to tell you , Master .
`` Twenty-five year ago I love Rose Lawrence .
The Lawrences live where you be board now .
There be just the father , a sickly man , and Rose , my `` Rose of joy , '' a I call her , for I know my Emerson pretty well even then .
She be sweet and fair , like a white rise with just a hint of pink in it cup .
We love each other , but we could n't marry then .
My mother be an invalid , and one time , before I have learn to care for Rose , she , the mother , have ask me to promise her that I 'd never marry as long a she live .
She do n't think then that she would live long , but she live for twenty year , Master , and she hold me to my promise all the time .
Yes , it be hard '' -- for I have give an indignant exclamation -- `` but you see , Master , I have promise and I have to keep my word .
Rose say I be right in do it .
She say she be willing to wait for me , but she do n't know , poor girl , how long the waiting be to be .
Then her father 's health fail completely , and the doctor order him to another climate .
They go to California .
That be a hard parting , Master .
But we promise each other that we would be true , and we have be .
I 've never see my Rose of joy since then , but I 've have a letter from her every week .
When the mother die , five year ago , I want to move to California and marry Rose .
But she write that her father be so poorly she could n't marry me yet .
She have to wait on him every minute , and he 's restless , and they move here and there -- a hard life for my poor girl .
So I have to take a new lease of patience , Master .
One learn how to wait in twenty year .
But I shall have her some day , God willing .
Our love will be crown yet .
So I wait , Master , and try to keep my life and soul clean and wholesome and young for her .
`` That 's my story , Master , and we 'll not say anything more about it just now , for I dare say you do n't exactly know what to say .
But at time I 'll talk of her to you and that will be a rare pleasure to me ; I think that be why I want you to know about her . ''
He do talk often to me of her , and I soon come to realize what this far-away woman meant in his life .
She be for him the centre of everything .
His love be strong , pure , and idyllic -- the ideal love of which the lofty poet sing .
It glorify his whole inner life with a strange , unfailing radiance .
I find that everything he do be do with an eye single to what she would think of it when she come .
Especially do he put his love into his garden .
`` Every flower in it stand for a thought of her , Master , '' he say .
`` It be a great joy to think that she will walk in this garden with me some day .
It will be complete then -- my Rose of joy will be here to crown it . ''
That summer and winter pass away , and when spring come again , letter her footstep with violet in the meadow and wake all the sleep loveliness of old homestead garden , Uncle Dick 's long deferred happiness come with her .
One evening when I be in our `` den , '' mid-deep in study of old thing that seem musty and unattractive enough in contrast with the vivid , newborn , out-of-doors , Uncle Dick come home from the post office with an open letter in his hand .
His big voice tremble a he say , `` Master , she 's come home .
Her father be dead and she have nobody in the world now but me .
In a month she will be here .
Do n't talk to me of it yet -- I want to taste the joy of it in silence for a while . ''
He hasten away to his garden and walk there until darkness fell , with his face uplift to the sky , and the love rapture of countless generation shin in his eye .
Later on , we sit on one of the old stone bench and Uncle Dick try to talk practically .
Bayside people soon find out that Rose Lawrence be come home to marry Uncle Dick .
Uncle Dick be much tease , and suffer under it ; it seem , a he have say , desecration .
But the real goodwill and kindly feeling in the banter redeem it .
He go to the station to meet Rose Lawrence the day she come .
When I go home from school Mrs. Lindsay tell me she be in the parlour and take me in to be introduce .
I be bitterly disappointed .
Somehow , I have expect to meet , not indeed a young girl palpitate with youthful bloom , but a woman of ripe maturity , dower with the beauty of harmonious middle-age -- the feminine counterpart of Uncle Dick .
Instead , I find in Rose Lawrence a small , faded woman of forty-five , gown in shabby black .
She have evidently be very pretty once , but bloom and grace be go .
Her face have a sweet and gentle expression , but be tire and wear , and her fair hair be plentifully streak with grey .
Alas , I think compassionately , for Uncle Dick 's dream !
What a shock the change to her must have give him !
Could this be the woman on whom he have lavish such a life-wealth of love and reverence ?
I try to talk to her , but I find her shy and timid .
She seem to me uninteresting and commonplace .
And this be Uncle Dick 's Rose of joy !
I be so sorry for Uncle Dick that I shrink from meet him .
Nevertheless , I go over after tea , fear that he might misunderstand , nay , rather , understand , my absence .
He be in the garden , and he come down the path where the bud be just show .
There be a smile on his face and the glory in his eye be quite undimmed .
`` Master , she 's come .
And she 's not a bit change .
I fear she would be , but she be just the same -- my sweet little Rose of joy ! ''
I look at Uncle Dick in some amazement .
He be thoroughly sincere , there be no doubt of that , and I felt a great throb of relief .
He have find no disillusion change .
I saw Rose Lawrence merely with the cold eye of the stranger .
He saw her through the transfigure medium of a love that make her truly his Rose of joy .
And all be well .
They be marry the next morning and walk together over the clover meadow to their home .
In the evening I go over , a I have promise Uncle Dick to do .
They be in the garden , with a great saffron sky over them and a glory of sunset behind the poplar .
I pause unseen at the gate .
Uncle Dick be big and splendid in his fine new wedding suit , and his faded little bride be hang on his arm .
Her face be upturned to him ; it be a glorified face , so transform by the tender radiance of love shin through it that I saw her then a Uncle Dick must always see her , and no long find it hard to understand how she could be his Rose of joy .
Happiness clothe them a a garment ; they be crown king and queen in the bridal realm of the springtime .
The Understanding of Sister Sara June First .
I begin this journal last New Year 's -- write two entry in it and then forget all about it .
I come across it today in a rummage -- Sara insist on my cleaning thing out thoroughly every once in so long -- and I 'm go to keep it up .
I feel the need of a confidant of some kind , even if it be only an inanimate journal .
I have no other .
And I can not talk my thought over with Sara -- she be so unsympathetic .
Sara be a dear good soul and I love her as much a she will let me .
I be also very grateful to her .
She bring me up when our mother die .
No doubt she have a hard time of it , poor dear , for I never be easily bring up , perversely prefer to come up in my own way .
But Sara do her duty unflinchingly and -- well , it 's not for me to say that the result do her credit .
But it really do , consider the material she have to work with .
I 'm a bundle of fault a it be , but I tremble to think what I would have be if there have be no Sara .
Yes , I love Sara , and I 'm grateful to her .
But she do n't understand me in the least .
Perhaps it be because she be so much old than I be , but it do n't seem to me that Sara could really ever have be young .
She laugh at thing I consider the most sacred and call me a romantic girl , in a tone of humorous toleration .
I be chill and throw back on myself , and the dream and confidence I be bubble over with have no outlet .
Sara could n't understand -- she be so practical .
When I go to her with some beautiful thought I have find in a book or poem she be quite likely to say , `` Yes , yes , but I notice this morning that the braid be loose on your skirt , Beatrice .
Better go and sew it on before you forget again . '
A stitch in time save nine . ' ''
When I come home from a concert or lecture , yearn to talk over the divine music or the wonderful new idea with her , she will say , `` Yes , yes , but be you sure you do n't get your foot damp ?
Better go and change your stocking , my dear .
` An ounce of prevention be worth a pound of cure . ' ''
So I have give up try to talk thing over with Sara .
This old journal will be good .
Last night Sara and I go to Mrs. Trent 's musicale .
I have to sing and I have the lovely new gown for the occasion .
At first Sara thought my old blue dress would do .
She say we must economize this summer and tell me I be entirely too extravagant in the matter of clothes .
I cry about it after I go to bed .
Sara look at me very sharply the next morning without say anything .
In the afternoon she go uptown and buy some lovely pale yellow silk organdie .
She make it up herself -- Sara be a genius at dressmaking -- and it be the pretty gown at the musicale .
Sara wear her old grey silk make over .
Sara do n't care anything about dress , but then she be forty .
Walter Shirley be at the Trents ' .
The Shirleys be a new family here ; they move to Atwater two month ago .
Walter be the old son and have be at college in Marlboro all winter so that nobody here know him until he come home a fortnight ago .
He be very handsome and distinguished-looking and everybody say he be so clever .
He play the violin just beautifully and have such a melting , sympathetic voice and the lovely deep , dark , inscrutable eye .
I ask Sara when we come home if she do n't think he be splendid .
`` He 'd be a nice boy if he be n't rather conceited , '' say Sara .
After that it be impossible to say anything more about Mr. Shirley .
I be glad he be go to be in Atwater all summer .
We have so few really nice young men here ; they go away just as soon a they grow up and those who stay be just the muff .
I wonder if I shall see Mr. Shirley soon again .
June Thirtieth .
It do not seem possible that it be only a month since my last entry .
It seem more like a year -- a delightful year .
I ca n't believe that I be the same Beatrice Mason who write then .
And I be not , either .
She be just a simple little girl , know nothing but romantic dream .
I feel that I be very much change .
Life seem so grand and high and beautiful .
I want to be a true noble woman .
Only such a woman could be worthy of -- of -- a fine , noble man .
But when I try to say something like this to Sara she reply calmly : `` My dear child , the average woman be quite good enough for the average man .
If she can cook his meal decently and keep his button sew on and do n't nag him he will think that life be a pretty comfortable affair .
And that remind me , I saw hole in your black lace stocking yesterday .
Better go and darn them at once .
` Procrastination be the thief of time . ' ''
Sara can not understand .
Blanche Lawrence be marry yesterday to Ted Martin .
I think it the most solemn and sacred thing I have ever listen to -- the marriage ceremony , I mean .
I have never think much about it before .
I do n't see how Blanche could care anything for Ted -- he be so stout and dumpy ; with shallow blue eye and a little pale moustache .
I must say I do not like fair men .
But there be no doubt that he and Blanche love each other devotedly and that fact suffice to make the service very beautiful to me -- those two people pledge each other to go through life together , meet it storm and sunshine hand in hand , think joy the sweeter because they share it , find sorrow sacred because it come to them both .
When Sara and I walk home from the church Sara say , `` Well , consider the chance she have have , Blanche Lawrence have n't do so well after all . ''
`` Oh , Sara , '' I cry , `` she have marry the man she love and who love her .
What better be there to do ?
I think it beautiful . ''
`` They should have wait another year at least , '' say Sara severely .
`` Ted Martin have only be practise law for a year , and he have nothing to begin with .
He ca n't have make enough in one year in Atwater to justify him in set up housekeep .
I think a man ought to be ashamed of himself to take a girl from a good home to an uncertainty like that . ''
`` Not if she love him and be willing to share the uncertainty , '' I say softly .
`` Love wo n't pay the butcher 's bill , '' say Sara with a sniff , `` and landlord have an unfeeling preference for money over affection .
Besides , Blanche be a mere child , far too young to be burden with the responsibility of life . ''
Blanche be twenty -- two year old than I be .
But Sara talk a if I be a mere infant .
July Thirtieth .
Oh , I be so happy !
I wonder if there be another girl in the world as happy a I be tonight .
No , of course there can not be , because there be only one Walter !
Walter and I be engage .
It happen last night when we be sit out in the moonlight under the silver maple on the lawn .
I can not write down what he say -- the word be too sacred and beautiful to be keep anywhere but in my own heart forever and ever as long a I live .
And I do n't remember just what I say .
But we understand each other perfectly at last .
Of course Sara have to do her best to spoil thing .
Just a Walter have take my hand in his and bent forward with his splendid earnest eye just burn into mine , and my heart be beat so furiously , Sara come to the front door and call out , `` Beatrice !
Beatrice !
Have you your rubber on ?
And do n't you think it be too damp out there for you in that heavy dew ?
Better come into the house , both of you .
Walter have a cold now . ''
`` Oh , we 'll be in soon , Sara , '' I say impatiently .
But we do n't go in for an hour , and when we do Sara be cross , and after Walter have go she tell me I be a very silly girl to be so reckless of my health and risk get pneumonia loiter out in the dew with a sentimental boy .
I have have some vague thought of tell Sara all about my new happiness , for it be so great I want to talk it over with somebody , but I could n't after that .
Oh , I wish I have a mother !
She could understand .
But Sara can not .
Walter and I have decide to keep our engagement a secret for a month -- just our own beautiful secret unshared by anyone .
Then before he go back to college he be go to tell Sara and ask her consent .
I do n't think Sara will refuse it exactly .
She really like Walter very well .
But I know she will be horrid and I just dread it .
She will say I be too young and that a boy like Walter have no business to get engage until he be through college and that we have n't know each other long enough to know anything about each other and that we be only a pair of romantic child .
And after she have say all this and give a disapprove consent she will begin to train me up in the way a good housekeeper should go , and talk to me about table linen and the best way to manage a range and how to tell if a chicken be really a chicken or only an old hen .
Oh , I know Sara !
She will set the teeth of my spirit on edge a dozen time a day and rub all the bloom off my dear , only , little romance with her horrible practicality .
I know one must learn about those thing of course and I do want to make Walter 's home the best and dear and most comfortable spot on earth for him and be the very best little wife and housekeeper I can be when the time come .
But I want to dream my dream first and Sara will wake me up so early to reality .
This be why we determine to keep one month sacred to ourselves .
Walter will graduate next spring -- he be to be a doctor -- and then he intend to settle down in Atwater and work up a practice .
I be sure he will succeed for everyone like him so much .
But we be to be marry as soon a he be through college because he have a little money of his own -- enough to set up housekeep in a modest way with care and economy .
I know Sara will talk about risk and wait and all that just a she do in Ted Martin 's case .
But then Sara do not understand .
Oh , I be so happy !
It almost frighten me -- I do n't see how anything so wonderful can last .
But it will last , for nothing can ever separate Walter and me , and as long a we be together and love each other this great happiness will be mine .
Oh , I want to be so good and noble for his sake .
I want to make life `` one grand sweet song . ''
I have go about the house today feel like a woman consecrate and set apart from other woman by Walter 's love .
Nothing could spoil it , not even when Sara scold me for let the preserve burn in the kettle because I forget to stir them while I be plan out our life together .
Sara say she really do not know what would happen to me some day if I be so careless and forgetful .
But then , Sara do not understand .
August Twentieth .
It be all over .
Life be end for me and I do not know how I can face the desolate future .
Walter and I have quarrel and our engagement be break .
He be go and my heart be break .
I hardly know how it begin .
I 'm sure I never mean to flirt with Jack Ray .
I never do flirt with him either , in spite of Walter 's unmanly accusation .
But Walter have be jealous of Jack all summer , although he know perfectly well he need n't be , and two night ago at the Morley dance poor Jack seem so dull and unhappy that I try to cheer him up a little and be kind to him .
I dance with him three time and sit out another dance just to talk with him in a real sisterly fashion .
But Walter be furious and last night when he come up he say horrid thing -- thing no girl of any spirit could endure , and thing he could never have say to me if he have really care one bit for me .
We have a frightful quarrel and when I saw plainly that Walter no longer love me I tell him that he be free and that I never want to see him again and that I hat him .
He glare at me and say that I should have my wish -- I never should see him again and he hop he would never again meet such a faithless , fickle girl .
Then he go away and slam the front door .
I cry all night , but today I go about the house singing .
I would not for the world let other people know how Walter have treat me .
I will hide my broken heart under a smile face bravely .
But , oh , I be so miserable !
Just as soon a I be old enough I mean to go away and be a trained nurse .
There be nothing else leave in life for me .
Sara do not suspect that anything be wrong and I be so thankful she do not .
She would not understand .
September Sixth .
Today I read this journal over and think I would burn it , it be so silly .
But on second thought I conclude to keep it a a reminder of how blind and selfish I be and how good Sara be .
For I be happy again and everything be all right , thanks to Sara .
The very day after our quarrel Walter leave Atwater .
He do not have to return to college for three week , but he go to visit some friend down in Charlotteville and I hear -- Mollie Roach tell me -- Mollie Roach be always wild about Walter herself -- that he be not come back again , but would go right on to Marlboro from Charlotteville .
I smile squarely at Mollie a if I do n't care a particle , but I ca n't describe how I felt .
I know then that I have really be hop that something would happen in three week to make our quarrel up .
In a small place like Atwater people in the same set ca n't help meeting .
But Walter have go and I should never see him again , and what be bad I know he do n't care or he would n't have go .
I bore it in silence for three week , but I will shudder to the end of my life when I remember those three week .
Night before last Sara come up to my room where I be lie on my bed with my face in the pillow .
I be n't cry -- I could n't cry .
There be just a dreadful dull ache in everything .
Sara sit down on the rocker in front of the window and the sunset light come in behind her and make a sort of nimbus round her head , like a motherly saint 's in a cathedral .
`` Beatrice , '' she say gently , `` I want to know what the trouble be .
You ca n't hide it from me that something be wrong .
I 've notice it for some time .
You do n't eat anything and you cry all night -- oh , yes , I know you do .
What be it , dear ? ''
`` Oh , Sara ! ''
I just give a little cry , slip from the bed to the floor , lay my head in her lap , and tell her everything .
It be such a relief , and such a relief to feel those good motherly arm around me and to realize that here be a love that would never fail me no matter what I do or how foolish I be .
Sara hear me out and then she say , without a word of reproach or contempt , `` It will all come out right yet , dear .
Write to Walter and tell him you be sorry . ''
`` Sara , I never could !
He do n't love me any longer -- he say he hop he 'd never see me again . ''
`` Did n't you say the same to him , child ?
He mean it as little a you do .
Do n't let your foolish pride keep you miserable . ''
`` If Walter wo n't come back to me without my ask him he 'll never come , Sara , '' I say stubbornly .
Sara do n't scold or coax any more .
She pat my head and kiss me and make me bathe my face and go to bed .
Then she tuck me in just a she use to do when I be a little girl .
`` Now , do n't cry , dear , '' she say , `` it will come right yet . ''
Somehow , I begin to hope it would when Sara think so , and anyhow it be such a comfort to have talk it all over with her .
I sleep good than I have for a long time , and it be seven o'clock yesterday morning when I wake to find that it be a dull grey day outside and that Sara be stand by my bed with her hat and jacket on .
`` I 'm go down to Junction Falls on the 7:30 train to see Mr. Conway about come to fix the back kitchen floor , '' she say , `` and I have some other business that may keep me for some time , so do n't be anxious if I 'm not back till late .
Give the bread a good kneading in an hour 's time and be careful not to bake it too much . ''
That be a dismal day .
It begin to rain soon after Sara leave and it just pour .
I never saw a soul all day except the milkman , and I be really frantic by night .
I never be so glad of anything a when I hear Sara 's step on the verandah .
I fly to the front door to let her in -- and there be Walter all drip wet -- and his arm be about me and I be cry on the shoulder of his mackintosh .
I only guess then what I know later on .
Sara have hear from Mrs. Shirley that Walter be go to Marlboro that day without come back to Atwater .
Sara know that he must change train at Junction Falls and she go there to meet him .
She do n't know what train he would come on so she go to meet the early and have to wait till the last , hang around the dirty little station at the Falls all day while it pour rain , and she have n't a thing to eat except some fancy biscuit she have buy on the train .
But Walter come at last on the 7:50 train and there be Sara to pounce on him .
He tell me afterwards that no angel could have be so beautiful a vision to him a Sara be , stand there on the wet platform with her tweed skirt hold up and a streaming umbrella over her head , tell him he must come back to Atwater because Beatrice want him to .
But just at the moment of his come I do n't care how he have come or who have bring him .
I just realize that he be there and that be enough .
Sara come in behind him .
Walter 's wet arm be about me and I be stand there with my thin-slippered foot in a little pool of water that drip from his umbrella .
But Sara never say a word about cold and dampness .
She just smile , go on into the sitting-room , and shut the door .
Sara understood .
The Unforgotten One It be Christmas Eve , but there be no frost , or snow , or sparkle .
It be a green Christmas , and the night be mild and dim , with hazy starlight .
A little wind be laugh freakishly among the fir around Ingleside and rustle among the sere grass along the garden walk .
It be more like a night in early spring or late fall than in December ; but it be Christmas Eve , and there be a light in every window of Ingleside , the glow break out through the whispering darkness like a flame-red blossom swung against the background of the evergreen ; for the child be come home for the Christmas reunion , a they always come -- Fritz and Margaret and Laddie and Nora , and Robert 's two boy in the place of Robert , who have die fourteen year ago -- and the old house must put forth it best of light and good cheer to welcome them .
Doctor Fritz and his brood be the last to arrive , drive up to the hall door amid a chorus of welcome bark from the old dog and a hail of merry call from the group in the open doorway .
`` We 're all here now , '' say the little mother , a she put her arm about the neck of her stalwart firstborn and kiss his bearded face .
There be handshaking and greeting and laughter .
Only Nanny , far back in the shadow of the firelit hall , swallow a resentful sob , and wipe two bitter tear from her eye with her little red hand .
`` We 're not all here , '' she murmur under her breath .
`` Miss Avis be n't here .
Oh , how can they be so glad ?
How can they have forget ? ''
But nobody heard or heed Nanny -- she be only the little orphan `` help '' girl at Ingleside .
They be all very good to her , and they be all very fond of her , but at the time of family reunion Nanny be unconsciously count out .
There be no bond of blood to unite her to them , and she be leave on the fringe of thing .
Nanny never resent this -- it be all a matter of course to her ; but on this Christmas Eve her heart be break because she think that nobody remember Miss Avis .
After supper they all gather around the open fireplace of the hall , hung with it berry and evergreen in honour of the morrow .
It be their unwritten law to form a fireside circle on Christmas Eve and tell each other what the year have bring them of good and ill , sorrow and joy .
The circle be small by one than it have be the year before , but none speak of that .
There be a smile on every face and happiness in every voice .
The father and mother sat in the centre , grey-haired and placid , their fine old face write over with the history of gracious life .
Beside the mother , Doctor Fritz sit like a boy , on the floor , with his massive head , grey a his father 's , on her lap , and one of his smooth , muscular hand , that be as tender a a woman 's at the operating table , clasp in hers .
Next to him sit sweet Nora , the twenty-year-old `` baby , '' who teach in a city school ; the rosy firelight gleam lovingly over her girlish beauty of burnished brown hair , dreamy blue eye , and soft , virginal curve of cheek and throat .
Doctor Fritz 's spare arm be about her , but Nora 's own hand be clasp over her knee , and on one of them sparkle a diamond that have not be there at the last Christmas reunion .
Laddie , who figure a Archibald only in the family Bible , sit close to the inglenook -- a handsome young fellow with a daring brow and rollick eye .
On the other side sit Margaret , hand in hand with her father , a woman whose gracious sweetness of nature envelop her a a garment ; and Robert 's two laughing boy fill up the circle , look so much alike that it be hard to say which be Cecil and which be Sid .
Margaret 's husband and Fritz 's wife be play game with the child in the parlour , whence shriek of merriment drift out into the hall .
Nanny might have be with them have she choose , but she prefer to sit alone in the dark corner of the hall and gaze with jealous , unhappy eye at the mirthful group about the fire , listen to their story and jest and laughter with unavailing protest in her heart .
Oh , how could they have forget so soon ?
It be not yet a full year since Miss Avis have go .
Last Christmas Eve she have sit there , a sweet and saintly presence , in the inglenook , more , so it have almost seem , the centre of the home circle than the father and mother ; and now the December star be shin over her grave , and not one of that heedless group remember her ; not once be her name speak ; even her old dog have forget her -- he sit with his nose in Margaret 's lap , blink with drowsy , age contentment at the fire .
`` Oh , I ca n't bear it ! ''
whisper Nanny , under cover of the hearty laughter which greet a story Doctor Fritz have be tell .
She slip out into the kitchen , put on her hood and cloak , and take from a box under the table a little wreath of holly .
She have make it out of the bit leave over from the decoration .
Miss Avis have love holly ; Miss Avis have love every green , grow thing .
As Nanny open the kitchen door something cold touch her hand , and there stand the old dog , wag his tail and look up at her with wistful eye , mutely plead to be take , too .
`` So you do remember her , Gyppy , '' say Nanny , pat his head .
`` Come along then .
We 'll go together . ''
They slip out into the night .
It be quite dark , but it be not far to the graveyard -- just out through the evergreen and along a field by-path and across the road .
The old church be there , with it square tower , and the white stone gleam all around it .
Nanny go straight to a shadowy corner and kneel on the sere grass while she place her holly wreath on Miss Avis 's grave .
The tear in her eye brim over .
`` Oh , Miss Avis !
Miss Avis ! ''
she sob .
`` I miss you so -- I miss you so !
It ca n't ever seem like Christmas to me without you .
You be always so sweet and kind to me .
There ai n't a day pass but I think of you and all the thing you use to say to me , and I try to be good like you 'd want me to be .
But I hate them for forget you -- yes , I do !
I 'll never forget you , darling Miss Avis !
I 'd rather be here alone with you in the dark than back there with them . ''
Nanny sit down by the grave .
The old dog lay down by her side with his forepaw on the turf and his eye fix on the tall white marble shaft .
It be too dark for Nanny to read the inscription but she know every word of it : `` In love remembrance of Avis Maywood , die January 20 , 1902 , age 45 . ''
And underneath the line of her own choosing : `` Say not good night , but in some brighter clime Bid me good morning . ''
But they have forget her -- oh , they have forget her already !
When half an hour have pass , Nanny be startle by approach footstep .
Not wish to be see , she creep softly behind the headstone into the shadow of the willow on the farther side , and the old dog follow .
Doctor Fritz , come to the grave , think himself alone with the dead .
He kneel down by the headstone and press his face against it .
`` Avis , '' he say gently , `` dear Avis , I have come to visit your grave tonight because you seem near to me here than elsewhere .
And I want to talk to you , Avis , a I have always talk to you every Christmastide since we be child together .
I have miss you so tonight , dear friend and sympathizer -- no word can tell how I have miss you -- your welcome handclasp and your sweet face in the firelight shadow .
I could not bear to speak your name , the ache sense of loss be so bitter .
Amid all the Christmas mirth and good fellowship I felt the sorrow of your vacant chair .
Avis , I want to tell you what the year have bring to me .
My theory have be prove ; it have make me a famous man .
Last Christmas , Avis , I tell you of it , and you listen and understood and believe in it .
Dear Avis , once again I thank you for all you have be to me -- all you be yet .
I have bring you your rose ; they be a white and pure and fragrant a your life . ''
Other footstep come so quickly on Doctor Fritz ' retreat one that Nanny could not rise .
It be Laddie this time -- gay , careless , thoughtless Laddie .
`` Roses ?
So Fritz have be here !
I have bring you lily , Avis .
Oh , Avis , I miss you so !
You be so jolly and good -- you understand a fellow so well .
I have to come here tonight to tell you how much I miss you .
It do n't seem half home without you .
Avis , I 'm try to be a good chap -- more the sort of man you 'd have me be .
I 've give the old set the go-by -- I 'm try to live up to your standard .
It would be easy if you be here to help me .
When I be a kid it be always easy to be good for awhile after I 'd talk thing over with you .
I 've get the best mother a fellow ever have , but you and I be such chum , be n't we , Avis ?
I think I 'd just break down in there tonight and put a damper on everything by cry like a baby .
If anybody have speak about you , I should have .
Hello ! ''
Laddie wheel around with a start , but it be only Robert 's two boy , who come shyly up to the grave , half hang back to find anyone else there .
`` Hello , boys , '' say Laddie huskily .
`` So you 've come to see her grave too ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Cecil solemnly .
`` We -- we just have to .
We could n't go to bed without come .
Oh , be n't it lonesome without Cousin Avis ? ''
`` She be always so good to u , '' say Sid .
`` She use to talk to u so nice , '' say Cecil chokily .
`` But she like fun , too . ''
`` Boys , '' say Laddie gravely , `` never forget what Cousin Avis use to say to you .
Never forget that you have get to grow up into men she 'd be proud of . ''
They go away then , the boy and their boyish uncle ; and when they have go Nora come , steal timidly through the shadow , start at the rustle of the wind in the tree .
`` Oh , Avis , '' she whisper .
`` I want to see you so much !
I want to tell you all about it -- about him .
You would understand so well .
He be the best and dear lover ever a girl have .
You would think so too .
Oh , Avis , I miss you so much !
There 's a little shadow even on my happiness because I ca n't talk it over with you in the old way .
Oh , Avis , it be dreadful to sit around the fire tonight and not see you .
Perhaps you be there in spirit .
I love to think you be , but I want to see you .
You be always there to come home to before , Avis , dear . ''
Sobbing , she go away ; and then come Margaret , the grave , strong Margaret .
`` Dear cousin , dear to me a a sister , it seem to me that I must come to you here tonight .
I can not tell you how much I miss your wise , clear-sighted advice and judgment , your wholesome companionship .
A little son be bear to me this past year , Avis .
How glad you would have be , for you know , a none other do , the bitterness of my childless heart .
How we would have delight to talk over my baby together , and teach him wisely between u !
Avis , Avis , your go make a blank that can never be fill for me ! ''
Margaret be still stand there when the old people come .
`` Father !
Mother !
Is n't it too late and chilly for you to be here ? ''
`` No , Margaret , no , '' say the mother .
`` I could n't go to my bed without come to see Avis 's grave .
I bring her up from a baby -- her die mother give her to me .
She be as much my own child a any of you .
And oh !
I miss her so .
You only miss her when you come home , but I miss her all the time -- every day ! ''
`` We all miss her , Mother , '' say the old father , tremulously .
`` She be a good girl -- Avis be a good girl .
Good night , Avis ! '' ''
` Say not good night , but in some brighter clime bid her good morning , ' '' quote Margaret softly .
`` That be her own wish , you know .
Let u go back now .
It be get late . ''
When they have go Nanny creep out from the shadow .
It have not occur to her that perhaps she should not have listen -- she have be too shy to make her presence know to those who come to Avis 's grave .
But her heart be full of joy .
`` Oh , Miss Avis , I 'm so glad , I 'm so glad !
They have n't forget you after all , Miss Avis , dear , not one of them .
I 'm sorry I be so cross at them ; and I 'm so glad they have n't forget you .
I love them for it . ''
Then the old dog and Nanny go home together .
The Wooing of Bessy When Lawrence Eastman begin go to see Bessy Houghton the Lynnfield people shrug their shoulder and say he might have pick out somebody a little young and pretty -- but then , of course , Bessy be well off .
A two-hundred-acre farm and a substantial bank account be worth go in for .
Trust an Eastman for know upon which side his bread be butter .
Lawrence be only twenty , and look even young , owe to his smooth , boyish face , curly hair , and half-girlish bloom .
Bessy Houghton be in reality no more than twenty-five , but Lynnfield people have the impression that she be past thirty .
She have always be old than her year -- a quiet , reserve girl who dress plainly and never go about with other young people .
Her mother have die when Bessy be very young , and she have always keep house for her father .
The responsibility make her grave and mature .
When she be twenty her father die and Bessy be his sole heir .
She keep the farm and take the rein of government in her own capable hand .
She make a success of it too , which be more than many a man in Lynnfield have do .
Bessy have never have a lover .
She have never seem like other girl , and pass for an old maid when her contemporary be in the flush of social success and bloom .
Mrs. Eastman , Lawrence 's mother , be a widow with two son .
George , the old , be the mother 's favourite , and the property have be will to him by his father .
To Lawrence have be leave the few hundred in the bank .
He stay at home and hire himself to George , thereby add slowly to his small hoard .
He have his eye on a farm in Lynnfield , but he be as yet a mere boy , and his plan for the future be very vague until he fell in love with Bessy Houghton .
In reality nobody be more surprised over this than Lawrence himself .
It have certainly be the last thing in his thought on the dark , damp night when he have overtake Bessy walk home alone from prayer meeting and have offer to drive her the rest of the way .
Bessy assent and get into his buggy .
At first she be very silent , and Lawrence , who be a bashful lad at the best of time , felt tongue-tied and uncomfortable .
But presently Bessy , pity his evident embarrassment , begin to talk to him .
She could talk well , and Lawrence find himself enter easily into the spirit of her piquant speech .
He have an odd feeling that he have never know Bessy Houghton before ; he have certainly never guess that she could be such good company .
She be very different from the other girl he know , but he decide that he like the difference .
`` Are you go to the party at Baileys ' tomorrow night ? ''
he ask , a he help her to alight at her door .
`` I do n't know , '' she answer .
`` I 'm invited -- but I 'm all alone -- and party have never be very much in my line . ''
There be a wistful note in her voice , and Lawrence detect it , say hurriedly , not give himself time to get frighten : `` Oh , you 'd better go to this one .
And if you like , I 'll call around and take you . ''
He wonder if she would think him very presumptuous .
He think her voice sound colder a she say : `` I be afraid that it would be too much trouble for you . ''
`` It would n't be any trouble at all , '' he stammer .
`` I 'll be very pleased to take you . ''
In the end Bessy have consent to go , and the next evening Lawrence call for her in the rose-red autumn dusk .
Bessy be ready and wait .
She be dress in what be for her unusual elegance , and Lawrence wonder why people call Bessy Houghton so plain .
Her figure be strikingly symmetrical and softly curve .
Her abundant , dark-brown hair , instead of be part plainly and draw back into a prim coil a usual , be dress high on her head , and a creamy rise nestle amid the become puff and wave .
She wear black , a she usually do , but it be a lustrous black silk , simply and fashionably make , with frost-like frill of lace at her firm round throat and dainty wrist .
Her cheek be delicately flush , and her wood-brown eye be sparkle under her long lash .
She offer him a half-opened bud for his coat and pin it on for him .
As he look down at her he notice what a sweet mouth she have -- full and red , with a half child-like curve .
The fact that Lawrence Eastman take Bessy Houghton to the Baileys ' party make quite a sensation at that festal scene .
People nod and wink and wonder .
`` An old maid and her money , '' say Milly Fiske spitefully .
Milly , a be well know , have a liking for Lawrence herself .
Lawrence begin to `` go with '' Bessy Houghton regularly after that .
In his single-mindedness he never fear that Bessy would misjudge his motif or imagine him to be prompt by mercenary design .
He never think of her rich himself , and it never occur to him that she would suppose he do .
He soon realize that he love her , and he venture to hope timidly that she love him in return .
She be always rather reserve , but the few favour that mean nothing from other girl mean a great deal from Bessy .
The evening he spend with her in her pretty sitting-room , their moonlight drive over long , satin-smooth stretch of snowy road , and their walk home from church and prayer meeting under the winter star , be all so many moment of supreme happiness to Lawrence .
* * * * * Matters have go thus far before Mrs. Eastman get her eye open .
At Mrs. Tom Bailey 's quilt party an officious gossip take care to inform her that Lawrence be suppose to be crazy over Bessy Houghton , who be , of course , encourage him simply for the sake of have someone to beau her round , and who would certainly throw him over in the end since she know perfectly well that it be her money he be after .
Mrs. Eastman be a proud woman and a determined one .
She have always dislike Bessy Houghton , and she go home from the quilt resolve to put an instant stop to `` all such nonsense '' on her son 's part .
`` Where be Lawrie ? ''
she ask abruptly ; a she enter the small kitchen where George Eastman be lounge by the fire .
`` Out in the stable groom up Lady Grey , '' respond her old son sulkily .
`` I suppose he 's gad off to see Bessy Houghton again , the young fool that he be !
Why do n't you put a stop to it ? ''
`` I be go to put a stop to it , '' say Mrs. Eastman grimly .
`` I 'd have do it before if I 'd know .
You should have tell me of it if you know .
I 'm go out to see Lawrence right now . ''
George Eastman mutter something inaudible a the door close behind her .
He be a short , thickset man , not in the least like Lawrence , who be ten year his junior .
Two year previously he have make a furtive attempt to pay court to Bessy Houghton for the sake of her wealth , and her decided repulse of his advance be a remembrance that make him grit his teeth yet .
He have hat her bitterly ever since .
Lawrence be brush his pet mare 's coat until it shine like satin , and whistle `` Annie Laurie '' until the rafter ring .
Bessy have sing it for him the night before .
He could see her plainly still a she have look then , in her gown of vivid red -- a colour peculiarly become to her -- with her favourite lace at wrist and throat and a white rise in her hair , which be dress in the high , become knot she have always wear since the night he have shyly tell her he like it so .
She have play and sung many of the sweet old Scotch ballad for him , and when she have go to the door with him he have take both her hand in his and , embolden by the look in her brown eye , he have stoop and kiss her .
Then he have step back , fill with dismay at his own audacity .
But Bessy have say no word of rebuke , and only blush hotly crimson .
She must care for him , he think happily , or else she would have be angry .
When his mother come in at the stable door her face be hard and uncompromising .
`` Lawrie , '' she say sharply , `` where be you go again tonight ?
You be out last night . ''
`` Well , Mother , I promise you I be n't in any bad company .
Come now , do n't quiz a fellow too close . ''
`` You be go to dangle after Bessy Houghton again .
It 's time you be tell what a fool you be make of yourself .
She 's old enough to be your mother .
The whole settlement be laugh at you . ''
Lawrence look a if his mother have strike him a blow in the face .
A dull , purplish flush crept over his brow .
`` This be some of George 's work , '' he break out fiercely .
`` He 's be set you on me , have he ?
Yes , he 's jealous -- he want Bessy himself , but she would not look at him .
He think nobody know it , but I do .
Bessy marry him ?
It 's very likely ! ''
`` Lawrie Eastman , you be daft .
George have n't say anything to me .
You surely do n't imagine Bessy Houghton would marry you .
And if she would , she be too old for you .
Now , do n't you hang around her any longer . ''
`` I will , '' say Lawrence flatly .
`` I do n't care what anybody say .
You need n't worry over me .
I can take care of myself . ''
Mrs. Eastman look blankly at her son .
He have never defy or disobey her in his life before .
She have suppose her word would be law .
Rebellion be something she have not dream of .
Her lip tighten ominously and her eye narrow .
`` You 're a big fool than I take you for , '' she say in a voice that tremble with anger .
`` Bessy Houghton laugh at you everywhere .
She know you 're just after her money , and she make fun -- '' `` Prove it , '' interrupt Lawrence undauntedly , `` I 'm not go to put any faith in Lynnfield gossip .
Prove it if you can . ''
`` I can prove it .
Maggie Hatfield tell me what Bessy Houghton say to her about you .
She say you be a lovesick fool , and she only go with you for a little amusement , and that if you think you have nothing to do but marry her and hang up your hat there you 'd find yourself vastly mistake . ''
Possibly in her calmer moment Mrs. Eastman might have shrink from such a deliberate falsehood , although it be say of her in Lynnfield that she be not one to stick at a lie when the truth would not serve her purpose .
Moreover , she felt quite sure that Lawrence would never ask Maggie Hatfield anything about it .
Lawrence turn white to the lip , `` Is that true , Mother ? ''
he ask huskily .
`` I 've warn you , '' reply his mother , not choose to repeat her statement .
`` If you go after Bessy any more you can take the consequence . ''
She draw her shawl about her pale , malicious face and leave him with a part glance of contempt .
`` I guess that 'll settle him , '' she think grimly .
`` Bessy Houghton turn up her nose at George , but she sha n't make a fool of Lawrence too . ''
Alone in the stable Lawrence stand star out at the dull red ball of the winter sun with unseeing eye .
He have implicit faith in his mother , and the stab have go straight to his heart .
Bessy Houghton listen in vain that night for his well-known footfall on the verandah .
The next night Lawrence go home with Milly Fiske from prayer meeting , take her out from a crowd of other girl under Bessy Houghton 's very eyes a she come down the step of the little church .
Bessy walk home alone .
The light burn low in her sitting-room , and in the mirror over the mantel she saw her own pale face , with it tragic , pain-stricken eye .
Annie Hillis , her `` help , '' be out .
She be alone in the big house with her misery and despair .
She go dizzily upstairs to her own room and flung herself on the bed in the chill moonlight .
`` It be all over , '' she say dully .
All night she lay there , fight with her pain .
In the wan , grey morning she look at her mirrored self with pity scorn -- at the pallid face , the lifeless feature , the dispirited eye with their bluish circle .
`` What a fool I have be to imagine he could care for me ! ''
she say bitterly .
`` He have only be amuse himself with my folly .
And to think that I let him kiss me the other night ! ''
She think of that kiss with a pitiful shame .
She hat herself for the weakness that could not check her tear .
Her lonely life have be brighten by the companionship of her young lover .
The youth and girlhood of which fate have cheat her have come to her with love ; the future have look rosy with promise ; now it have darken with dourness and greyness .
Maggie Hatfield come that day to sew .
Bessy have intend to have a dark-blue silk make up and an evening waist of pale pink cashmere .
She have expect to wear the latter at a party which be to come off a fortnight later , and she have get it to please Lawrence , because he have tell her that pink be his favourite colour .
She would have neither it nor the silk make up now .
She put them both away and instead bring out an ugly pattern of snuff-brown stuff , buy year before and never use .
`` But where be your lovely pink , Bessy ? ''
ask the dressmaker .
`` Are n't you go to have it for the party ? ''
`` No , I 'm not go to have it make up at all , '' say Bessy listlessly .
`` It 's too gay for me .
I be foolish to think it would ever suit me .
This brown will do for a spring suit .
It do n't make much difference what I wear . ''
Maggie Hatfield , who have not be at prayer meet the night beforehand know nothing of what have occur , look at her curiously , wonder what Lawrence Eastman could see in her to be a crazy about her a some people say he be .
Bessy be look her old and plainest just then , with her hair comb severely back from her pale , dispirit face .
`` It must be her money he be after , '' think the dressmaker .
`` She look over thirty , and she ca n't pretend to be pretty .
I believe she think a lot of him , though . ''
For the most part , Lynnfield people believe that Bessy have throw Lawrence over .
This opinion be bear out by his woebegone appearance .
He be thin and pale ; his face have lose it youthful curve and look hard and mature .
He be moody and taciturn and his speech and manner be mark by a new cynicism .
* * * * * In April a well-to-do storekeeper from an adjacent village begin to court Bessy Houghton .
He be over fifty , and have never be a handsome man in his best day , but Lynnfield oracle opine that Bessy would take him .
She could n't expect to do any good , they say , and she be look terribly old and dowdy all at once .
In June Maggie Hatfield go to the Eastmans ' to sew .
The first bit of news she impart to Mrs. Eastman be that Bessy Houghton have refuse Jabez Lea -- at least , he do n't come to see her any more .
Mrs. Eastman twitch her thread viciously .
`` Bessy Houghton be bear an old maid , '' she say sharply .
`` She think nobody be good enough for her , that be what 's the matter .
Lawrence get some silly boy-notion into his head last winter , but I soon put a stop to that . ''
`` I always have an idea that Bessy think a good deal of Lawrence , '' say Maggie .
`` She have never be the same since he leave off go with her .
I be up there the morning after that prayer-meeting night people talk so much of , and she look positively dreadful , a if she have n't sleep a wink the whole night . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
say Mrs. Eastman decisively .
`` She would never think of take a boy like him when she 'd turn up her nose at good men .
And I do n't want her for a daughter-in-law anyhow .
I ca n't bear her .
So I put my foot down in time .
Lawrence sulk for a spell , of course -- boy-fashion -- and he 's be as fractious a a spoiled baby ever since . ''
`` Well , I dare say you 're right , '' assent the dressmaker .
`` But I must say I have always imagine that Bessy have a great notion of Lawrence .
Of course , she 's so quiet it be hard to tell .
She never say a word about herself . ''
There be an unsuspected listener to this conversation .
Lawrence have come in from the field for a drink , and be stand in the open kitchen doorway , within easy earshot of the woman 's shrill tone .
He have never doubt his mother 's word at any time in his life , but now he know beyond doubt that there have be crook work somewhere .
He shrink from believe his mother untrue , yet where else could the crookedness come in ?
When Mrs. Eastman have go to the kitchen to prepare dinner , Maggie Hatfield be startle by the appearance of Lawrence at the low open window of the sitting-room .
`` Mercy me , how you scar me ! ''
she exclaim nervously .
`` Maggie , '' say Lawrence seriously , `` I want to ask you a question .
Did Bessy Houghton ever say anything to you about me or do you ever say that she do ?
Give me a straight answer . ''
The dressmaker peer at him curiously .
`` No .
Bessy never so much a mention your name to me , '' she say , `` and I never hear that she do to anyone else .
Why ? ''
`` Thank you .
That be all I want to know , '' say Lawrence , ignore her question , and disappear as suddenly a he have come .
That evening at moonrise he pass through the kitchen dress in his Sunday best .
His mother meet him at the door .
`` Where be you go ? ''
she ask querulously .
Lawrence look her squarely in the face with accuse eye , before which her own quailed .
`` I 'm go to see Bessy Houghton , Mother , '' he say sternly , `` and to ask her pardon for believe the lie that have keep u apart so long . ''
Mrs. Eastman flush crimson and open her lip to speak .
But something in Lawrence 's grave , white face silence her .
She turn away without a word , know in her secret soul that her youngest-born be lose to her forever .
Lawrence find Bessy in the orchard under apple tree that be pyramid of pearly bloom .
She look at him through the twilight with reproach and aloofness in her eye .
But he put out his hand and catch her reluctant one in a masterful grasp .
`` Listen to me , Bessy .
Do n't condemn me before you 've hear me .
I 've be to blame for believe falsehood about you , but I believe them no longer , and I 've come to ask you to forgive me . ''
He tell his story simply and straightforwardly .
In strict justice he could not keep his mother 's name out of it , but he merely say she have be mistake .
Perhaps Bessy understand none the less .
She know what Mrs. Eastman 's reputation in Lynnfield be .
`` You might have have a little more faith in me , '' she cry reproachfully .
`` I know -- I know .
But I be beside myself with pain and wretchedness .
Oh , Bessy , wo n't you forgive me ?
I love you so !
If you send me away I 'll go to the dog .
Forgive me , Bessy . ''
And she , be a woman , do forgive him .
`` I 've love you from the first , Lawrence , '' she say , yield to his kiss .
Their Girl Josie When Paul Morgan , a rise young lawyer with justifiable political aspiration , marry Elinor Ashton , lead woman at the Green Square Theatre , his old schoolmate and neighbour back in Spring Valley hold up their hand in horror , and his father and mother up in the weather-grey Morgan homestead be crush in the depth of humiliation .
They have be too proud of Paul ... their only son and such a clever fellow ... and this be their punishment !
He have marry an actress !
To Cyrus and Deborah Morgan , bring up and nourished all their life on the strictest and straightest of old-fashioned belief both a regard this world and that which be to come , this be a tragedy .
They could not be bring to see it in any other light .
As their neighbour say , `` Cy Morgan never hilt up his head again after Paul marry the play-acting woman . ''
But perhaps it be less his humiliation than his sorrow which bow down his erect form and sprinkle grey in his thick black hair that fifty year have hitherto spar .
For Paul , forget the sacrifice his mother and father have make for him , have bitterly resent the letter of protest his father have write concern his marriage .
He write one angry , unfilial letter back and then come silence .
Between grief and shame Cyrus and Deborah Morgan grow old rapidly in the year that follow .
At the end of that time Elinor Morgan , the mother of an hour , die ; three month later Paul Morgan be kill in a railroad collision .
After the funeral Cyrus Morgan bring home to his wife their son 's little daughter , Joscelyn Morgan .
Her aunt , Annice Ashton , have want the baby .
Cyrus Morgan have be almost rude in his refusal .
His son 's daughter should never be bring up by an actress ; it be bad enough that her mother have be one and have doubtless transmit the taint to her child .
But in Spring Valley , if anywhere , it might be eradicate .
At first neither Cyrus nor Deborah care much for Joscelyn .
They resent her parentage , her strange , un-Morgan-like name , and the pronounced resemblance she bore to the dark-haired , dark-eyed mother they have never see .
All the Morgans have be fair .
If Joscelyn have have Paul 's blue eye and golden curl her grandfather and grandmother would have love her sooner .
But the love come ... it have to .
No living mortal could have resist Joscelyn .
She be the most winsome and lovable little mite of babyhood that ever toddle .
Her big dark eye overflow with laughter before she could speak , her puckered red mouth break constantly into dimple and coo sound .
She have way that no orthodox Spring Valley baby ever think of have .
Every smile be a caress , every gurgle of attempted speech a song .
Her grandparent come to worship her and be strict than ever with her by reason of their love .
Because she be so dear to them she must be save from her mother 's blood .
Joscelyn shoot up through a roly-poly childhood into slim , bewitch girlhood in a chill repressive atmosphere .
Cyrus and Deborah be nothing if not thorough .
The name of Joscelyn 's mother be never mention to her ; she be never call anything but Josie , which sound more `` Christian-like '' than Joscelyn ; and all the flower out of her alien beauty be repress as far a might be in the plainest and dullest of dress and the prim arrangement possible to riotous ripe-brown curl .
The girl be never allow to visit her Aunt Annice , although frequently invite .
Miss Ashton , however , write to her occasionally , and every Christmas send a box of present which even Cyrus and Deborah Morgan could not forbid her to accept , although they look with disapprove eye and ominously set lip at the dainty , frivolous trifle the actress woman send .
They would have like to cast those painted fan and lace frill and beflounced lingerie into the fire a if they have be infect rag from a pest-house .
The path thus set for Joscelyn 's dance foot to walk in be indeed sedate and narrow .
She be seldom allow to mingle with the young people of even quiet , harmless Spring Valley ; she be never allow to attend local concert , much less take part in them ; she be forbidden to read novel , and Cyrus Morgan burn an old copy of Shakespeare which Paul have give him year ago and which he have himself read and treasure , l it perusal should awaken unlawful instinct in Joscelyn 's heart .
The girl 's passion for reading be so marked that her grandparent felt that it be their duty to repress it as far a lay in their power .
But Joscelyn 's vitality be such that all her bond and band serve but little to check or retard the growth of her rich nature .
Do what they might they could not make a Morgan of her .
Her every step be a dance , her every word and gesture full of a grace and virility that fill the old folk with uneasy wonder .
She seem to them charge with dangerous tendency all the more potent from repression .
She be sweet-tempered and sunny , truthful and modest , but she be as little like the trim , simple Spring Valley girl a a crimson rise be like a field daisy , and her unlikeness bore heavily on her grandparent .
Yet they love her and be proud of her .
`` Our girl Josie , '' a they call her , be more to them than they would have admit even to themselves , and in the main they be satisfied with her , although the grandmother grumble because Josie do not take kindly to patchwork and rug-making and the grandfather would fain have tone down that exuberance of beauty and vivacity into the meeker pattern of maidenhood he have be accustom to .
When Joscelyn be seventeen Deborah Morgan notice a change in her .
The girl become quiet and more brooding , fall at time into strange , idle revery , with her hand clasp over her knee and her big eye fix unseeingly on space ; or she would creep away for solitary ramble in the beech wood , go away droopingly and return with dusky glow cheek and a nameless radiance , a of some newly discover power , shin through every muscle and motion .
Mrs. Morgan think the child need a tonic and give her sulphur and molasses .
One day the revelation come .
Cyrus and Deborah have drive across the valley to visit their married daughter .
Not find her at home they return .
Mrs. Morgan go into the house while her husband go to the stable .
Joscelyn be not in the kitchen , but the grandmother heard the sound of voice and laughter in the sitting room across the hall .
`` What company have Josie get ? ''
she wonder , a she open the hall door and pause for a moment on the threshold to listen .
As she listen her old face grow grey and pinch ; she turn noiselessly and leave the house , and fly to her husband a one distract .
`` Cyrus , Josie be play-acting in the room ... laughing and reciting and go on .
I hear her .
Oh , I 've always fear it would break out in her and it have !
Come you and listen to her . ''
The old couple crept through the kitchen and across the hall to the open parlour door a if they be stalk a thief .
Joscelyn 's laugh rang out a they do so ... a mocking , triumphant peal .
Cyrus and Deborah shiver a if they have hear sacrilege .
Joscelyn have put on a trailing , cling black skirt which her aunt have send her a year ago and which she have never be permit to wear .
It transform her into a woman .
She have cast aside her waist of dark plum-coloured homespun and wrap a silken shawl about herself until only her beautiful arm and shoulder be leave bare .
Her hair , glossy and brown , with burnish red light where the ray of the dull autumn sun strike on it through the window , be heap high on her head and hold in place by a fillet of pearl bead .
Her cheek be crimson , her whole body from head to foot instinct and alive with a beauty that to Cyrus and Deborah , a they stand mute with horror in the open doorway , seem akin to some devilish enchantment .
Joscelyn , rapt away from her surroundings , do not perceive her grandparent .
Her face be turn from them and she be address an unseen auditor in passionate denunciation .
She speak , move , pose , gesticulate , with an inborn genius shin through every motion and tone like an illuminating lamp .
`` Josie , what be you do ? ''
It be Cyrus who speak , advance into the room like a stern , hard impersonation of judgment .
Joscelyn 's outstretched arm fell to her side and she turn sharply around ; fear come into her face and the light go out of it .
A moment before she have be a woman , splendid , unafraid ; now she be again the schoolgirl , too confused and sham to speak .
`` What be you do , Josie ? ''
ask her grandfather again , `` dress up in that indecent manner and talk and twist to yourself ? ''
Joscelyn 's face , that have grow pale , flame scarlet again .
She lift her head proudly .
`` I be try Aunt Annice 's part in her new play , '' she answer .
`` I have not be do anything wrong , Grandfather . ''
`` Wrong !
It 's your mother 's blood come out in you , girl , in spite of all our care !
Where do you get that play ? ''
`` Aunt Annice send it to me , '' answer Joscelyn , cast a quick glance at the book on the table .
Then , when her grandfather pick it up gingerly , a if he fear contamination , she add quickly , `` Oh , give it to me , please , Grandfather .
Do n't take it away . ''
`` I be go to burn it , '' say Cyrus Morgan sternly .
`` Oh , do n't , Grandfather , '' cry Joscelyn , with a sob in her voice .
`` Do n't burn it , please .
I ... I ... wo n't practise out of it any more .
I 'm sorry I 've displease you .
Please give me my book . ''
`` No , '' be the stern reply .
`` Go to your room , girl , and take off that rig .
There be to be no more play-acting in my house , remember that . ''
He fling the book into the fire that be burn in the grate .
For the first time in her life Joscelyn flame out into passionate defiance .
`` You be cruel and unjust , Grandfather .
I have do no wrong ... it be not do wrong to develop the one gift I have .
It 's the only thing I can do ... and I be go to do it .
My mother be an actress and a good woman .
So be Aunt Annice .
So I mean to be . ''
`` Oh , Josie , Josie , '' say her grandmother in a scared voice .
Her grandfather only repeat sternly , `` Go , take that rig off , girl , and let u hear no more of this . ''
Joscelyn go but she leave consternation behind her .
Cyrus and Deborah could not have be more shocked if they have discover the girl rob her grandfather 's desk .
They talk the matter over bitterly at the kitchen hearth that night .
`` We have n't be strict enough with the girl , Mother , '' say Cyrus angrily .
`` We 'll have to be stricter if we do n't want to have her disgrace u .
Did you hear how she defy me ?
` So I mean to be , ' she say .
Mother , we 'll have trouble with that girl yet . ''
`` Do n't be too harsh with her , Pa ... it 'll maybe only drive her to worse , '' sob Deborah .
`` I ai n't go to be harsh .
What I do be for her own good , you know that , Mother .
Josie be as dear to me a she be to you , but we 've get to be stricter with her . ''
They be .
From that day Josie be watch and distrust .
She be never permit to be alone .
There be no more solitary walk .
She felt herself under the surveillance of cold , unsympathetic eye every moment and her very soul writhe .
Joscelyn Morgan , the high-spirited daughter of high-spirited parent , could not long submit to such treatment .
It might have pass with a child ; to a woman , thrill with life and conscious power to her very fingertips , it be gall beyond measure .
Joscelyn rebel , but she do nothing secretly ... that be not her nature .
She write to her Aunt Annice , and when she receive her reply she go straight and fearlessly to her grandparent with it .
`` Grandfather , this letter be from my aunt .
She wish me to go and live with her and prepare for the stage .
I tell her I wish to do so .
I be go . ''
Cyrus and Deborah look at her in mute dismay .
`` I know you despise the profession of an actress , '' the girl go on with heightened colour .
`` I be sorry you think so about it because it be the only one open to me .
I must go ... I must . ''
`` Yes , you must , '' say Cyrus cruelly .
`` It 's in your blood ... your bad blood , girl . ''
`` My blood be n't bad , '' cry Joscelyn proudly .
`` My mother be a sweet , true , good woman .
You be unjust , Grandfather .
But I do n't want you to be angry with me .
I love you both and I be very grateful indeed for all your kindness to me .
I wish that you could understand what ... '' `` We understand enough , '' interrupt Cyrus harshly .
`` This be all I have to say .
Go to your play-acting aunt if you want to .
Your grandmother and me wo n't hinder you .
But you 'll come back here no more .
We 'll have nothing far to do with you .
You can choose your own way and walk in it . ''
With this dictum Joscelyn go from Spring Valley .
She cling to Deborah and weep at parting , but Cyrus do not even say goodbye to her .
On the morning of her departure he go away on business and do not return until even .
* * * * * Joscelyn go on the stage .
Her aunt 's influence and her mother 's fame help her much .
She miss the hard experience that come to the unassisted beginner .
But her own genius must have win in any case .
She have all her mother 's gift , deepen by her inheritance of Morgan intensity and sincerity ... much , too , of the Morgan firmness of will .
When Joscelyn Morgan be twenty-two she be famous over two continent .
When Cyrus Morgan return home on the evening after his granddaughter 's departure he tell his wife that she be never to mention the girl 's name in his hearing again .
Deborah obeyed .
She think her husband be right , albeit she might in her own heart deplore the necessity of such a decree .
Joscelyn have disgrace them ; could that be forgive ?
Nevertheless both the old people miss her terribly .
The house seem to have lose it soul with that vivid , ripely tint young life .
They get their married daughter 's old girl , Pauline , to come and stay with them .
Pauline be a quiet , docile maiden , industrious and commonplace -- just such a girl a they have vainly strive to make of Joscelyn , to whom Pauline have always be hold up a a model .
Yet neither Cyrus nor Deborah take to her , and they let her go unregretfully when they find that she wish to return home .
`` She have n't any of Josie 's gimp , '' be old Cyrus 's unspoken fault .
Deborah speak , but all she say be , `` Polly 's a good girl , Father , only she have n't any snap . ''
Joscelyn write to Deborah occasionally , tell her freely of her plan and doings .
If it hurt the girl that no notice be ever take of her letter she still write them .
Deborah read the letter grimly and then leave them in Cyrus 's way .
Cyrus would not read them at first ; later on he read them stealthily when Deborah be out of the house .
When Joscelyn begin to succeed she send to the old farmhouse paper and magazine contain her photograph and criticism of her play and act .
Deborah cut them out and keep them in her upper bureau drawer with Joscelyn 's letter .
Once she overlook one and Cyrus find it when he be kindle the fire .
He get the scissors and cut it out carefully .
A month later Deborah discover it between the leaf of the family Bible .
But Joscelyn 's name be never mention between them , and when other people ask them concern her their reply be cold and ungracious .
In a way they have relent towards her , but their shame of her remain .
They could never forget that she be an actress .
Once , six year after Joscelyn have leave Spring Valley , Cyrus , who be read a paper by the table , get up with an angry exclamation and stuff it into the stove , thump the lid on over it with grim malignity .
`` That fool dunno what he 's talk about , '' be all he would say .
Deborah have her share of curiosity .
The paper be the National Gazette and she know that their next-door neighbour , James Pennan , take it .
She go over that evening and borrow it , say that their own have be burn before she have have time to read the serial in it .
With one exception she read all it column carefully without find anything to explain her husband 's anger .
Then she doubtfully plunge into the exception ... a column of `` Stage Notes . ''
Halfway down she come upon an adverse criticism of Joscelyn Morgan and her new play .
It be malicious and vituperative .
Deborah Morgan 's old eye sparkle dangerously a she read it .
`` I guess somebody be pretty jealous of Josie , '' she mutter .
`` I do n't wonder Pa be rile up .
But I guess she can hold her own .
She 's a Morgan . ''
No long time after this Cyrus take a notion he 'd like a trip to the city .
He 'd like to see the Horse Fair and look up Cousin Hiram Morgan 's folk .
`` Hiram and me use to be great chum , Mother .
And we 're get kind of mossy , I guess , never stir out of Spring Valley .
Let 's go and dissipate for a week -- what say ? ''
Deborah agree readily , albeit of late year she have be much averse to go far from home and have never at any time be very fond of Cousin Hiram 's wife .
Cyrus be as pleased a a child over their trip .
On the second day of their sojourn in the city he slip away when Deborah have go shopping with Mrs. Hiram and hurry through the street to the Green Square Theatre with a hang-dog look .
He buy a ticket apologetically and sneak in to his seat .
It be a matinee performance , and Joscelyn Morgan be star in her famous new play .
Cyrus wait for the curtain to rise , feel a if every one of his Spring Valley neighbour must know where he be and revile him for it .
If Deborah be ever to find out ... but Deborah must never find out !
For the first time in their married life the old man deliberately plot to deceive his old wife .
He must see his girl Josie just once ; it be a terrible thing that she be an actress , but she be a successful one , nobody could deny that , except fool who yap in the National Gazette .
The curtain go up and Cyrus rub his eye .
He have certainly brace his nerve to behold some mystery of iniquity ; instead he saw an old kitchen so like his own at home that it bewilder him ; and there , sit by the cheery wood stove , in homespun gown , with primly braid hair , be Joscelyn -- his girl Josie , a he have see her a thousand time by his own ingle-side .
The building rang with applause ; one old man pull out a red bandanna and wipe tear of joy and pride from his eye .
She have n't change -- Josie have n't change .
Play-acting have n't spoil her -- could n't spoil her .
Was n't she Paul 's daughter !
And all this applause be for her -- for Josie .
Joscelyn 's new play be a homely , pleasant production with rollick comedy and heart-moving pathos skilfully commingle .
Joscelyn pervade it all with a convincing simplicity that be really the triumph of art .
Cyrus Morgan listen and exult in her ; at every burst of applause his eye gleam with pride .
He want to go on the stage and box the ear of the villain who plot against her ; he want to shake hand with the good woman who stand by her ; he want to pay off the mortgage and make Josie happy .
He wipe tear from his eye in the third act when Josie be turn out of door and , when the fourth leave her a happy , blush bride , hand in hand with her farmer lover , he could have weep again for joy .
Cyrus Morgan go out into the daylight feeling a if he have awaken from a dream .
At the outer door he come upon Mrs. Hiram and Deborah .
Deborah 's face be stain with tear , and she catch at his hand .
`` Oh , Pa , be n't it splendid -- be n't our girl Josie splendid !
I 'm so proud of her .
Oh , I be bind to hear her .
I be afraid you 'd be mad , so I do n't let on and when I saw you in the seat down there I could n't believe my eye .
Oh , I 've just be cry the whole time .
Was n't it splendid !
Was n't our girl Josie splendid ? ''
The crowd around look at the old pair with amused , indulgent curiosity , but they be quite oblivious to their surroundings , even to Mrs. Hiram 's anxiety to decoy them away .
Cyrus Morgan clear his throat and say , `` It be great , Mother , great .
She take the shine off the other play-actor all right .
I know that National Gazette man do n't know what he be talk about .
Mother , let u go and see Josie right off .
She 's stop with her aunt at the Maberly Hotel -- I saw it in the paper this morning .
I 'm go to tell her she be right and we be wrong .
Josie 's beat them all , and I 'm go to tell her so ! ''
When Jack and Jill Took a Hand Jack 's Side of It Jill say I have to begin this story because it be me -- I mean it be I -- who make all the trouble in the first place .
That be so like Jill .
She be such a good hand at forgetting .
Why , it be she who suggest the plot to me .
I should never have think of it myself -- not that Jill be any smart than I be , either , but girl be such creature for plan up mischief and lead other folk into it and then lay the blame on them when thing go wrong .
How could I tell Dick would act so like a mule ?
I think grown-up folk have more sense .
Aunt Tommy be down on me for week , while she think Jill a regular heroine .
But there !
Girls do n't know anything about be fair , and I be determine I will never have anything more to do with them and their love affair as long a I live .
Jill say I will change my mind when I grow up , but I wo n't .
Still , Jill be a pretty good sort of girl .
I have to scold her sometimes , but if any other chap try to I would punch his head for him .
I suppose it be time I explain who Dick and Aunt Tommy be .
Dick be our minister .
He have n't be it very long .
He only come a year ago .
I shall never forget how surprised Jill and I be that first Sunday we go to church and saw him .
We have always think that minister have to be old .
All the minister we know be .
Mr. Grinnell , the one before Dick come , must have be as old a Methuselah .
But Dick be young -- and good-looking .
Jill say she think it a positive sin for a minister to be so good-looking , it do n't seem Christian ; but that be just because all the minister we know happen to be homely so that it do n't appear natural .
Dick be tall and pale and look a if he have heap of brain .
He have thick curly brown hair and big dark blue eye -- Jill say his eye be like an archangel 's , but how could she tell ?
She never saw an archangel .
I like his nose .
It be so straight and finished-looking .
Mr. Grinnell have the worst-looking nose you ever saw .
Jill and I use to make poetry about it in church to keep from fall asleep when he preach such awful long sermon .
Dick preach great sermon .
They be so nice and short .
It be such fun to hear him thump the pulpit when he get excite ; and when he get more excited still he would lean over the pulpit , his face all white , and talk so low and solemn that it would just send the most gorgeous thrill through you .
Dick come to Owlwood -- that 's our place ; I hate these explanation -- quite a lot , even before Aunt Tommy come .
He and Father be chum ; they have be in college together and Father say Dick be the best football player he ever know .
Jill and I soon get acquaint with him and this be another uncanny thing .
We have never think it possible to get acquaint with a minister .
Jill say she do n't think it proper for a real live minister to be so chummy .
But then Jill be a little jealous because Dick and I , be both men ; be good friend than he and she could be .
He teach me to skate that winter and fence with cane and do long division .
I could never understand long division before Dick come , although I be away on in fraction .
Jill have just be in and say I ought to explain that Dick 's name be n't Dick .
I do wish Jill would mind her own business .
Of course it be n't .
His real name be the Reverend Stephen Richmond , but Jill and I always call him Dick behind his back ; it seem so jolly and venturesome , somehow , to speak of a minister like that .
Only we have to be careful not to let Father and Mother hear u .
Mother would n't even let Father call Dick `` Stephen '' ; she say it would set a bad example of familiarity to the child .
Mother be an old darling .
She wo n't believe we 're half as bad a we be .
Well , early in May come Aunt Tommy .
I must explain who Aunt Tommy be or Jill will be at me again .
She be Father 's young sister and her real name be Bertha Gordon , but Father have always call her Tommy and she like it .
Jill and I have never see Aunt Tommy before , but we take to her from the start because she be so pretty and because she talk to u just a if we be grow up .
She call Jill Elizabeth , and Jill would adore a Hottentot who call her Elizabeth .
Aunt Tommy be the pretty girl I ever saw .
If Jill be half a good-looking when she get to be twenty -- she 's only ten now , same age a I be , we 're twin -- I shall be proud of her for a sister .
Aunt Tommy be all white and dimple .
She have curly red hair and big jolly brown eye and scrumptious freckle .
I do like freckle in a girl , although Jill go wild if she think she have one on her nose .
When we talk of write this story Jill say I be n't to say that Aunt Tommy have freckle because it would n't sound romantic .
But I do n't care .
She have freckle and I think they be all right .
We go to church with Aunt Tommy the first Sunday after she come , one on each side of her .
Aunt Tommy be the only girl in the world I 'd walk hand in hand with before people .
She look fine that day .
She have on a gorgeous dress , all frill and ruffle , and a big white floppy hat .
I be proud of her for an aunt , I can tell you , and I be anxious for Dick to see her .
When he come up to speak to me and Jill after church come out I say , `` Aunt Tommy , this be Mr. Richmond , '' just like the grown-up people say .
Aunt Tommy and Dick shake hand and Dick get as red a anything .
It be funny to see him .
The very next evening he come down to Owlwood .
We have n't expect him until Tuesday , for he never come Monday night before .
That be Father 's night for go to a lodge meeting .
Mother be away this time too .
I meet Dick on the porch and take him into the parlour , think what a bully talk we could have all alone together , without Jill bother around .
But in a minute Aunt Tommy come in and she and Dick begin to talk , and I just could n't get a word in edgewise .
I get so disgusted I start out , but I do n't believe they ever notice I be go .
I like Aunt Tommy very well , but I do n't think she have any business to monopolize Dick like that when he and I be such old chum .
Outside I come across Jill .
She be sit all alone in the dark , curl up on the edge of the verandah just where she could see into the parlour through the big glass door .
I sit down beside her , for I want sympathy .
`` Dick 's in there talk to Aunt Tommy , '' I say .
`` I do n't see what make him want to talk to her . ''
`` What a goose you be ! ''
say Jill in that aggravatingly patronize way of hers .
`` Why , Dick have fall in love with Aunt Tommy ! ''
Honest , I jump .
I never be so surprised .
`` How do you know ? ''
I ask .
`` Because I do , '' say Jill .
`` I know it yesterday at church and I think it be so romantic . ''
`` I do n't see how you can tell , '' I say -- and I do n't .
`` You 'll understand good when you get old , '' say Jill .
Sometimes Jill talk a if she be a hundred year old than I be , instead of be a twin .
And really , sometimes I think she be old .
`` I do n't think minister ever fell in love , '' I protest .
`` Some do , '' say Jill sagely .
`` Mr. Grinnell would n't ever , I suppose .
But Dick be different .
I 'd like him for a husband myself .
But he 'd be too old for me by the time I grow up , so I suppose I 'll have to let Aunt Tommy have him .
It will be all in the family anyhow -- that be one comfort .
I think Aunt Tommy ought to have me for a flower girl and I 'll wear pink silk cloud over with white chiffon and carry a big bouquet of rose . ''
`` Jill , you take my breath away , '' I say , and she do .
My imagination could n't travel as fast a that .
But after I have think the idea over a bit I like it .
It be a good deal like a book ; and , besides , a minister be a respectable thing to have in a family .
`` We must help them all we can , '' say Jill .
`` What can we do ? ''
I ask .
`` We must praise Dick to Aunt Tommy and Aunt Tommy to Dick and we must keep out of the way -- we must n't ever hang around when they want to be alone , '' say Jill .
`` I do n't want to give up be chum with Dick , '' I grumble .
`` We must be self-sacrificing , '' say Jill .
And that sound so fine it reconcile me to the attempt .
We sit there and watch Dick and Aunt Tommy for an hour .
I think they be awfully prim and stiff .
If I 'd be Dick I 'd have go over and hug her .
I say so to Jill and Jill be shock .
She say it would n't be proper when they be n't even engage .
When Dick go away Aunt Tommy come out to the verandah and discover u .
She sit down between u and put her arm about u .
Aunt Tommy have such cute way .
`` I like your minister very much , '' she say .
`` He 's bully , '' I say .
`` He 's as handsome a a prince , '' Jill say .
`` He preach splendid sermon -- he make people sit up in church , I can tell you , '' I say .
`` He have a heavenly tenor voice , '' Jill say .
`` He 's get a magnificent muscle , '' I say .
`` He have the most poetical eye , '' Jill say .
`` He swim like a duck , '' I say .
`` He look just like a Greek god , '' Jill say .
I 'm sure Jill could n't have know what a Greek god look like , but I suppose she get the comparison out of some novel .
Jill be always read novel .
She borrow them from the cook .
Aunt Tommy laugh and say , `` You darlings . ''
For the next three month Jill and I be wild .
It be just like read a serial story to watch Dick and Aunt Tommy .
One day when Dick come Aunt Tommy be n't quite ready to come down , so Jill and I go in to the parlour to help thing along .
We know we have n't much time , so we begin right off .
`` Aunt Tommy be the jolly girl I know , '' I say .
`` She be as beautiful a a dream , '' Jill say .
`` She can play game as good a a boy , '' I say .
`` She do the most elegant fancy work , '' Jill say .
`` She never get mad , '' I say .
`` She play and sings divinely , '' Jill say .
`` She can cook awfully good thing , '' I say , for I be begin to run short of compliment .
Jill be horrify ; she say afterwards that it be n't a bit romantic .
But I do n't care -- I believe Dick like it , for he smile with his eye I just a he always do when he 's pleased .
Girls do n't understand everything .
* * * * * But at the end of three month we begin to get anxious .
Things be go so slow .
Dick and Aunt Tommy do n't seem a bit far ahead than at first .
Jill say it be because Aunt Tommy do n't encourage Dick enough .
`` I do wish we could hurry them up a little , '' she say .
`` At this rate they will never be marry this year and by next I 'll be too big to be a flower girl .
I 'm stretch out horribly a it be .
Mother have have to let down my frock again . ''
`` I wish they would get engage and have do with it , '' I say .
`` My mind would be at rest then .
It 's all Dick 's fault .
Why do n't he ask Aunt Tommy to marry him ?
What 's make him so slow about it ?
If I want a girl to marry me -- but I would n't ever -- I 'd tell her so right spang off . ''
`` I suppose minister have to be more dignified , '' say Jill , `` but three month ought to be enough time for anyone .
And Aunt Tommy be only go to be here another month .
If Dick could be make a little jealous it would hurry him up .
And he could be make jealous if you have any spunk about you . ''
`` I guess I 've get more spunk than you have , '' I say .
`` The trouble with Dick be this , '' say Jill .
`` There be nobody else come to see Aunt Tommy and he think he be sure of her .
If you could tell him something different it would stir him up . ''
`` Are you sure it would ? ''
I ask .
`` It always do in novel , '' say Jill .
And that settle it , of course .
Jill and I fix up what I be to say and Jill make me say it over and over again to be sure I have it right .
I tell her -- sarcastically -- that she 'd well say it herself and then it would be do properly .
Jill say she would if it be Aunt Tommy , but when it be Dick it be well for a man to do it .
So of course I agree .
I do n't know when I would have a chance to stir Dick up , but Providence -- so Jill say -- favour u .
Aunt Tommy do n't expect Dick down the next night , so she and Father and Mother all go away somewhere .
Dick come after all , and Jill send me into the parlour to tell him .
He be stand before the mantel look at Aunt Tommy 's picture .
There be such an adore look in his eye .
I could see it quite plain in the mirror before him .
I practise that look a lot before my own glass after that -- because I think it might come in handy some time , you know -- but I guess I could n't have get it just right because when I try it on Jill she ask me if I have a pain .
`` Well , Jack , old man , '' say Dick , sit down on the sofa .
I sit down before him .
`` Aunt Tommy be out , '' I say , to get the bad over .
`` I guess you like Aunt Tommy pretty well , do n't you , Mr. Richmond ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Dick softly .
`` So do other men , '' I say -- mysterious , a Jill have order me .
Dick thump one of the sofa pillow .
`` Yes , I suppose so , '' he say .
`` There 's a man in New York who just worship Aunt Tommy , '' I say .
`` He write her most every day and send her book and music and elegant present .
I guess she 's pretty fond of him too .
She keep his photograph on her bedroom table and I 've see her kiss it . ''
I stop there , not because I have say all I have to say , but because Dick 's face scar me -- honest , it do .
It have all go white , like it do in the pulpit sometimes when he be tremendously in earnest , only ten time worse .
But all he say be , `` Is your Aunt Bertha engage to this -- this man ? ''
`` Not exactly engage , '' I say , `` but I guess anybody else who want to marry her will have to reckon with him . ''
Dick get up .
`` I think I wo n't wait this evening , '' he say .
`` I wish you 'd stay and have a talk with me , '' I say .
`` I have n't have a talk with you for age and I have a million thing to tell you . ''
Dick smile a if it hurt him to smile .
`` I ca n't tonight , Jacky .
Some other time we 'll have a good powwow , old chap . ''
He take his hat and go out .
Then Jill come fly in to hear all about it .
I tell her as well a I could , but she be n't satisfy .
If Dick take it so quietly , she declare , I could n't have make it strong enough .
`` If you have see Dick 's face , '' I say , `` you would have think I make it plenty strong .
And I 'd like to know what Aunt Tommy will say to all this when she find out . ''
`` Well , you do n't tell a thing but what be true , '' say Jill .
The next evening be Dick 's regular night for coming , but he do n't come , although Jill and I go down the lane a dozen time to watch for him .
The night after that be prayer-meeting night .
Dick have always walk home with Aunt Tommy and u , but that night he do n't .
He only just bow and smile a he pass u in the porch .
Aunt Tommy hardly speak all the way home , only just hold tight to Jill 's and my hand .
But after we get home she seem in great spirit and laugh and chat with Father and Mother .
`` What do this mean ? ''
ask Jill , grab me in the hall on our way to bed .
`` You 'd better get another novel from the cook and find out , '' I say grouchily .
I be disgust with thing in general and Dick in particular .
The three week that follow be awful .
Dick never come near Owlwood .
Jill and I fight every day , we be so cross and disappointed .
Nothing have come out right , and Jill blame it all on me .
She say I must have make it too strong .
There be no fun in anything , not even in go to church .
Dick hardly thump the pulpit at all and when he do it be only a measly little thump .
But Aunt Tommy do n't seem to worry any .
She sing and laugh and joke from morning to night .
`` She do n't mind Dick 's make an as of himself , anyway , that 's one consolation , '' I say to Jill .
`` She be break her heart about it , '' say Jill , `` and that 's your consolation ! ''
`` I do n't believe it , '' I say .
`` What make you think so ? ''
`` She cry every night , '' say Jill .
`` I can tell by the look of her eye in the morning . ''
`` She do n't look half a woebegone over it a you do , '' I say .
`` If I have her reason for look woebegone I would n't look it either , '' say Jill .
I ask her to explain her meaning , but she only say that little boy could n't understand those thing .
Things go on like this for another week .
Then they reach -- so Jill say -- a climax .
If Jill know what that mean I do n't .
But Pinky Carewe be the climax .
Pinky 's name be James , but Jill and I always call him Pinky because we could n't bear him .
He take to call at Owlwood and one evening he take Aunt Tommy out driving .
Then Jill come to me .
`` Something have get to be do , '' she say resolutely .
`` I be not go to have Pinky Carewe for an Uncle Tommy and that be all there be about it .
You must go straight to Dick and tell him the truth about the New York man . ''
I look at Jill to see if she be in earnest .
When I saw that she be I say , `` I would n't take all the gem of Golconda and go and tell Dick that I 'd be hoax him .
You can do it yourself , Jill Gordon . ''
`` You do n't tell him anything that be n't true , '' say Jill .
`` I do n't know how a minister might look upon it , '' I say .
`` Anyway , I wo n't go . ''
`` Then I suppose I 've get to , '' say Jill very dolefully .
`` Yes , you 'll have to , '' I say .
And this finish my part of the story , and Jill be go to tell the rest .
But you need n't believe everything she say about me in it .
Jill 's Side of It Jacky have make a fearful muddle of his part , but I suppose I shall just have to let it go .
You could n't expect much good of a boy .
But I be determine to re-describe Aunt Tommy , for the way Jacky have do it be just disgraceful .
I know exactly how to do it , the way it be always do in story .
Aunt Tommy be divinely beautiful .
Her magnificent wealth of burnished auburn hair flow back in amethystine wave from her sun-kissed brow .
Her eye be gloriously dark and deep , like midnight lake mirror the star of heaven ; her feature be like sculpture marble and her mouth be like a trembling , curve Cupid 's bow -LRB- this be a classical allusion -RRB- luscious and glow a a dewy rise .
Her creamy skin be a fair and flawless a the inner petal of a white lily .
-LRB- She may have a weeny teeny freckle or two in summer , but you 'd never notice . -RRB-
Her slender form be matchless in it symmetry and her voice be like the ripple of a woodland brook .
There , I 'm sure that 's ever so much good than Jacky 's description , and now I can proceed with a clear conscience .
Well , I do n't like the idea of go and explain to Dick very much , but it have to be do unless I want to run the risk of have Pinky Carewe in the family .
So I go the next morning .
I put on my very pretty pink organdie dress and do my hair the new way , which be very become to me .
When you be go to have an important interview with a man it be always well to look your very best .
I put on my big hat with the wreath of pink rose that Aunt Tommy have bring me from New York and take my spandy ruffle parasol .
`` With your shield or upon it , Jill , '' say Jacky when I start .
-LRB- This be another classical allusion . -RRB-
I go straight up the hill and down the road to the manse where Dick live with his old housekeeper , Mrs . Dodge .
She come to the door when I knock and I say , very politely , `` Can I see the Reverend Stephen Richmond , if you please ? ''
Mrs . Dodge go upstairs and come right back say would I please go up to the study .
Up I go , my heart in my mouth , I can tell you , and there be Dick among his book , look so pale and sorrowful and interesting , for all the world like Lord Algernon Francis in the splendid serial in the paper cook take .
There be a Madonna on his desk that look just like Aunt Tommy .
`` Good evening , Miss Elizabeth , '' say Dick , just a if I be grow up , you know .
`` Wo n't you sit down ?
Try that green velvet chair .
I be sure it be create for a pink dress and unfortunately neither Mrs . Dodge nor I possess one .
How be all your people ? ''
`` We be all pretty well ; thank you , '' I say , `` except Aunt Tommy .
She -- '' I be go to say , `` She cry every night after she go to bed , '' but I remember just in time that if I be in Aunt Tommy 's place I would n't want a man to know I cry about him even if I do .
So I say instead '' -- she have get a cold . ''
`` Ah , indeed , I be sorry to hear it , '' say Dick , politely but coldly , a if it be part of his duty a a minister to be sorry for anybody who have a cold , but a if , apart from that , it be not a concern of his if Aunt Tommy have gallop consumption .
`` And Jack and I be terribly harrow up in our mind , '' I go on .
`` That be what I 've come up to see you about . ''
`` Well , tell me all about it , '' say Dick .
`` I 'm afraid to , '' I say .
`` I know you 'll be cross even if you be a minister .
It 's about what Jack tell you about that man in New York and Aunt Tommy . ''
Dick turn as red a fire .
`` I 'd rather not discuss your Aunt Bertha 's affair , '' he say stiffly .
`` You must hear this , '' I cry , feel thankful that Jacky have n't come after all , for he 'd never have get any further ahead after that snub .
`` It 's all a mistake .
There be a man in New York and he just worship Aunt Tommy and she just adore him .
But he 's seventy year old and he 's her Uncle Matthew who bring her up ever since her father die and you 've hear her talk about him a hundred time .
That 's all , cross my heart solemn and true . ''
You never saw anything like Dick 's face when I stop .
It look just like a sunrise .
But he say slowly , `` Why do Jacky tell me such a -- tell me it in such a way ? ''
`` We want to make you jealous , '' I say .
`` I put Jacky up to it . ''
`` I do n't think it be in either of you to do such a thing , '' say Dick reproachfully .
`` Oh , Dick , '' I cry -- fancy my call him Dick right to his face !
Jacky will never believe I really do it .
He say I would never have dare .
But it be n't dare at all , it be just forget .
`` Oh , Dick , we do n't mean any harm .
We think you be n't get on fast enough and we want to stir you up like they do in book .
We think if we make you jealous it would work all right .
We do n't mean any harm .
Oh , please forgive u ! ''
I be just ready to cry .
But that dear Dick lean over the table and pat my hand .
`` There , there , it 's all right .
I understand and of course I forgive you .
Do n't cry , sweetheart . ''
The way Dick say `` sweetheart '' be perfectly lovely .
I envy Aunt Tommy , and I want to keep on cry so that he would go on comfort me .
`` And you 'll come back to see Aunt Tommy again ? ''
I say .
Dick 's face cloud over ; he get up and walk around the room several time before he say a word .
Then he come and sit down beside me and explain it all to me , just a if I be grow up .
`` Sweetheart , we 'll talk this all out .
You see , it be this way .
Your Aunt Bertha be the sweet woman in the world .
But I 'm only a poor minister and I have no right to ask her to share my life of hard work and self-denial .
And even if I dare I know she would n't do it .
She do n't care anything for me except a a friend .
I never mean to tell her I care for her but I could n't help go to Owlwood , even though I know it be a weakness on my part .
So now that I 'm out of the habit of go I think it would be wise to stay out .
It hurt dreadfully , but it would hurt bad after a while .
Do n't you agree with me , Miss Elizabeth ? ''
I think hard and fast .
If I be in Aunt Tommy 's place I might n't want a man to know I cry about him , but I be quite sure I 'd rather have him know than have him stay away because he do n't know .
So I speak right up .
`` No , I do n't , Mr. Richmond ; Aunt Tommy do care -- you just ask her .
She cry every bless night because you never come to Owlwood . ''
`` Oh , Elizabeth ! ''
say Dick .
He get up and stalk about the room again .
`` You 'll come back ? ''
I say .
`` Yes , '' he answer .
I draw a long breath .
It be such a responsibility off my mind .
`` Then you 'd better come down with me right off , '' I say , `` for Pinky Carewe have her out drive last night and I want a stop put to that as soon a possible .
Even if he be rich he 's a perfect pig . ''
Dick get his hat and come .
We walk up the road in lovely creamy yellow twilight and I be , oh , so happy .
`` Is n't it just like a novel ? ''
I say .
`` I be afraid , Elizabeth , '' say Dick preachily , `` that you read too many novel , and not the right kind , either .
Some of these day I be go to ask you to promise me that you will read no more book except those your mother and I pick out for you . ''
You do n't know how squelched I felt .
And I know I would have to promise , too , for Dick can make me do anything he like .
When we get to Owlwood I leave Dick in the parlour and fly up to Aunt Tommy 's room .
I find her all scrunch up on her bed in the dark with her face in the pillow .
`` Aunt Tommy , Dick be down in the parlour and he want to see you , '' I say .
Did n't Aunt Tommy fly up , though !
`` Oh , Jill -- but I 'm not fit to be see -- tell him I 'll be down in a few minute . ''
I know Aunt Tommy want to fix her hair and dab rose-water on her eye , so I trot meekly down and tell Dick .
Then I fly out to Jacky and drag him around to the glass door .
It be all hung over with vine and a wee bit ajar so that we could see and hear everything that go on .
Jacky say it be only sneak that listen -- but he do n't say it until next day .
At the time he listen just as hard a I do .
I do n't care if it be mean .
I just have to listen .
I be perfectly wild to hear how a man would propose and how a girl would accept and it be too good a chance to lose .
Presently in sweep Aunt Tommy , in an elegant dress , not a hair out of place .
She look perfectly sweet , only her nose be a little red .
Dick look at her for just a moment , then he step forward and take her right into his arm .
Aunt Tommy draw back her head for just a second a if she be go to crush him in the dust , and then she just all kind of crumple up and her face go down on his shoulder .
`` Oh -- Bertha -- I -- love -- you -- I -- love you , '' he say , just like that , all quick and jerky .
`` You -- you have take a queer way of show it , '' say Aunt Tommy , all muffle .
`` I -- I -- be lead to believe that there be another man -- whom you care for -- and I think you be only trifle with me .
So I sulk like a jealous fool .
Bertha , darling , you do love me a little , do n't you ? ''
Aunt Tommy lift her head and stick up her mouth and he kiss her .
And there it be , all over , and they be engage as quick a that , mind you .
He do n't even go down on his knee .
There be nothing romantic about it and I be never so disgust in my life .
When I grow up and anybody proposes to me he will have to be a good deal more flowery and eloquent than that , I can tell you , if he want me to listen to him .
I leave Jacky peek still and I go to bed .
After a long time Aunt Tommy come up to my room and sit down on my bed in the moonlight .
`` You dear bless Elizabeth ! ''
she say .
`` It 's all right then , be it ? ''
I ask .
`` Yes , it be all right , thanks to you , dearie .
We be to be marry in October and somebody must be my little flower girl . ''
`` I think Dick will make a splendid husband , '' I say .
`` But Aunt Tommy , you must n't be too hard on Jacky .
He only want to help thing along , and it be I who put him up it in the first place . ''
`` You have atone by go and confess , '' say Aunt Tommy with a hug , `` Jacky have no business to put that off on you .
I 'll forgive him , of course , but I 'll punish him by not let him know that I will for a little while .
Then I 'll ask him to be a page at my wedding . ''
Well , the wedding come off last week .
It be a perfectly gorgeous affair .
Aunt Tommy 's dress be a dream -- and so be mine , all pink silk and chiffon and carnation .
Jacky make a magnificent page too , in a suit of white velvet .
The wedding cake be four story high , and Dick look perfectly handsome .
He kiss me too , right after he kiss Aunt Tommy .
So everything turn out all right , and I believe Dick would never have dare to speak up if we have n't help thing along .
But Jacky and I have decide that we will never meddle in an affair of the kind again .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Lucy_Maud_Montgomery_Short_Stories , _1907_to_1908.txt.out
A Millionaire 's Proposal Thrush Hill , Oct. 5 , 18 -- .
It be all settle at last , and in another week I shall have leave Thrush Hill .
I be a little bit sorry and a great bit glad .
I be go to Montreal to spend the winter with Alicia .
Alicia -- it use to be plain Alice when she live at Thrush Hill and make her own dress and trim her own hat -- be my half-sister .
She be eight year old than I be .
We be both orphan , and Aunt Elizabeth bring u up here at Thrush Hill , the most delightful old country place in the world , half smother in big willow and poplar , every one of which I have climb in the early tomboy day of gingham pinafore and sun-bonnets .
When Alicia be eighteen she marry Roger Gresham , a man of forty .
The world say that she marry him for his money .
I dare say she do .
Alicia be tire of poverty .
I do n't blame her .
Very likely I shall do the same thing one of these day , if I get the chance -- for I too be tired of poverty .
When Alicia go to Montreal she want to take me with her , but I want to be outdoors , romp in the hay or run wild in the wood with Jack .
Jack Willoughby -- Dr. John H. Willoughby , it read on his office door -- be the son of our near neighbour .
We be chum always , and when he go away to college I be heartbroken .
The vacation be the only joy of my life then .
I do n't know just when I begin to notice a change in Jack , but when he come home two year ago , a full-fledged M.D . -- a great , tall , broad-shouldered fellow , with the sweet moustache , and lovely thick black hair , just make for poke one 's finger through -- I realize it to the full .
Jack be grow up .
The dear old day of bird-nesting and nutting and coasting and fishing and general delightful goings-on be over forever .
I be sorry at first .
I want `` Jack . ''
`` Dr. Willoughby '' seem too distinguish and far away .
I suppose he find a change in me , too .
I have put on long skirt and wear my hair up .
I have also find out that I have a complexion , and that sunburn be not become .
I honestly think I look pretty , but Jack survey me with decided disapprobation .
`` What have you do to yourself ?
You do n't look like the same girl .
I 'd never know you in that rig-out , with all those flippery-trippery curl all over your head .
Why do n't you comb your hair straight back , and let it hang in a braided tail , like you use to ? ''
This do n't suit me at all .
When I expect a compliment and get something quite different I always get snippy .
So I say , with what I intend to be crush dignity , `` that I suppose I be n't the same girl ; I have grow up , and if he do n't like my curl he need n't look at them .
For my part , I think them infinitely preferable to that horrid , conceited-looking moustache he have grow . ''
`` I 'll shave it off if it do n't suit you , '' say Jack amiably .
Jack be always so provokingly good-humoured .
When you 've take pain and put yourself out -- even to the extent of fib about a moustache -- to exasperate a person , there be nothing more annoying than to have him keep perfectly angelic .
But after a while Jack and I adjust ourselves to the change in each other and become very good friend again .
It be quite a different friendship from the old , but it be very pleasant .
Yes , it be ; I will admit that much .
I be provoke at Jack 's determination to settle down for life in Valleyfield , a horrible , humdrum , little country village .
`` You 'll never make your fortune there , Jack , '' I say spitefully .
`` You 'll just be a poor , struggle country doctor all your life , and you 'll be grey at forty . ''
`` I do n't expect to make a fortune , Kitty , '' say Jack quietly .
`` Do you think that be the one desirable thing ?
I shall never be a rich man .
But rich be not the only thing that make life pleasant . ''
`` Well , I think they have a good deal to do with it , anyhow , '' I retort .
`` It 's all very well to pretend to despise wealth , but it 's generally a case of sour grape .
I will own up honestly that I 'd love to be rich . ''
It always seem to make Jack blue and grumpy when I talk like that .
I suppose that be one reason why he never ask me to settle down in life a a country doctor 's wife .
Another be , no doubt , that I always nip his sentimental sprouting religiously in the bud .
Three week ago Alicia write to me , ask me to spend the winter with her .
Her letter always make me just gasp with longing for the life they describe .
Jack 's face , when I tell him about it , be so woebegone that I felt a stab of remorse , even in the heyday of my delight .
`` Do you really mean it , Kitty ?
Are you go away to leave me ? ''
`` You wo n't miss me much , '' I say flippantly -- I have a creepy , crawly presentiment that a scene of some kind be threaten -- `` and I 'm awfully tire of Thrush Hill and country life , Jack .
I suppose it be horribly ungrateful of me to say so , but it be the truth . ''
`` I shall miss you , '' he say soberly .
Somehow he have my hand in his .
How do he ever get them ?
I be sure I have them safely tuck out of harm 's way behind me .
`` You know , Kitty , that I love you .
I be a poor man -- perhaps I may never be anything else -- and this may seem to you very presumptuous .
But I can not let you go like this .
Will you be my wife , dear ? ''
Was n't it horribly straightforward and direct ?
So like Jack !
I try to pull my hand away , but he hold them fast .
There be nothing to do but answer him .
That `` no '' I have determine to say must be say , but , oh !
how woefully it do stick in my throat !
And I honestly believe that by the time I get it out it would have be transform into a `` yes , '' in spite of me , have it not be for a certain paragraph in Alicia 's letter which come providentially to my mind : Not to flatter you , Katherine , you be a beauty , my dear -- if your photo be to be trust .
If you have not discover that fact before -- how should you , indeed , in a place like Thrush Hill ?
-- you soon will in Montreal .
With your face and figure you will make a sensation .
There be to be a nephew of the Sinclairs here this winter .
He be an American , immensely wealthy , and will be the catch of the season .
A word to the wise , etc . .
Do n't get into any foolish entanglement down there .
I have hear some gossip of you and our old playfellow , Jack Willoughby .
I hope it be nothing but gossip .
You can do good than that , Katherine .
That settle Jack 's fate , if there ever have be any doubt .
`` Do n't talk like that , Jack , '' I say hurriedly .
`` It be all nonsense .
I think a great deal of you a a friend and -- and -- all that , you know .
But I can never marry you . ''
`` Are you sure , Kitty ? ''
say Jack earnestly .
`` Do n't you care for me at all ? ''
It be horrid of Jack to ask that question !
`` No , '' I say miserably , `` not -- not in that way , Jack .
Oh , do n't ever say anything like this to me again . ''
He let go of my hand then , white to the lip .
`` Oh , do n't look like that , Jack , '' I entreat .
`` I ca n't help it , '' he say in a low voice .
`` But I wo n't bother you again , dear .
It be foolish of me to expect -- to hope for anything of the sort .
You be a thousand time too good for me , I know . ''
`` Oh , indeed I 'm not , Jack , '' I protest .
`` If you know how horrid I be , really , you 'd be glad and thankful for your escape .
Oh , Jack , I wish people never grow up . ''
Jack smile sadly .
`` Do n't feel badly over this , Kitty .
It be n't your fault .
Good night , dear . ''
He turn my face up and kiss me squarely on the mouth .
He have never kiss me since the summer before he go away to college .
Somehow it do n't seem a bit the same a it use to ; it be -- nicer now .
After he go away I come upstairs and have a good , comfortable howl .
Then I bury the whole affair decently .
I be not go to think of it any more .
I shall always have the high esteem for Jack , and I hope he will soon find some nice girl who will make him happy .
Mary Carter would jump at him , I know .
To be sure , she be as homely a she can be and live .
But , then , Jack be always tell me how little he care for beauty , so I have no doubt she will suit him admirably .
As for myself -- well , I be ambitious .
I do n't suppose my ambition be a very lofty one , but such a it be I mean to hunt it down .
Come .
Let me put it down in black and white , once for all , and see how it look : I mean to marry the rich nephew of the Sinclairs .
There !
It be out , and I feel well .
How mercenary and awful it look write out in cold blood like that .
I would n't have Jack or Aunt Elizabeth -- dear , unworldly old soul -- see it for the world .
But I would n't mind Alicia .
Poor dear Jack !
* * * * * Montreal , Dec. 16 , 18 -- .
This be a nice way to keep a journal .
But the day when I could write regularly be go by .
That be when I be at Thrush Hill .
I be have a simply divine time .
How in the world do I ever contrive to live at Thrush Hill ?
To be sure , I felt badly enough that day in October when I leave it .
When the train leave Valleyfield I just cry like a baby .
Alicia and Roger welcome me very heartily , and after the first week of homesickness -- I shiver yet when I think of it -- be over , I settle down to my new life a if I have be bear to it .
Alicia have a magnificent home and everything heart could wish for -- jewel , carriage , servant , opera box , and social position .
Roger be a model husband apparently .
I must also admit that he be a model brother-in-law .
I could feel Alicia look me over critically the moment we meet .
I tremble with suspense , but I be soon relieve .
`` Do you know , Katherine , I be glad to see that your photograph do n't flatter you .
Photographs so often do , I be positively surprise at the way you have develop , my dear ; you use to be such a scrawny little brown thing .
By the way , I hope there be nothing between you and Jack Willoughby ? ''
`` No , of course not , '' I answer hurriedly .
I have intend to tell Alicia all about Jack , but when it come to the point I could n't .
`` I be glad of that , '' say Alicia , with a relieved air .
`` Of course , I 've no doubt Jack be a good fellow enough .
He be a nice boy .
But he would not be a suitable husband for you , Katherine . ''
I know that very well .
That be just why I have refuse him .
But it make me wince to hear Alicia say it .
I instantly freeze up -- Alicia say dignity be become to me -- and Jack 's name have never be mention between u since .
I make my bow to society at an `` At Home '' which Alicia give for that purpose .
She drill me well beforehand , and I think I acquit myself decently .
Charlie Vankleek , whose verdict make or mar every debutante in his set , have approve of me .
He call me a beauty , and everybody now believe that I be one , and greets me accordingly .
I meet Gus Sinclair at Mrs. Brompton 's dinner .
Alicia declare it be a case of love at first sight .
If so , I must confess that it be all on one side .
Mr. Sinclair be undeniably ugly -- even Alicia have to admit that -- and ca n't hold a candle to Jack in point of look , for Jack , poor boy , be handsome , if he be nothing else .
But , a Alicia do not fail to remind me , Mr. Sinclair 's homeliness be well gild .
Apart from his appearance , I really like him very much .
He be a gentlemanly little fellow -- his head reach about to my shoulder -- culture and travel , and can talk splendidly , which Jack never could .
He take me into dinner at Mrs. Brompton 's , and be very attentive .
You may imagine how many angelic glance I receive from the other candidate for his favour .
Since then I have be have the gay time imaginable .
Dances , dinner , luncheon , afternoon tea , `` function '' to no end , and all delightful .
Aunt Elizabeth write to me , but I have never hear a word from Jack .
He seem to have forget my existence completely .
No doubt he have console himself with Mary Carter .
Well , that be all for the best , but I must say I do not think Jack could have forget me so soon or so absolutely .
Of course it do not make the least difference to me .
The Sinclairs and the Bromptons and the Curries be to dine here tonight .
I can see myself reflect in the long mirror before me , and I really think my appearance will satisfy even Gus Sinclair 's critical eye .
I be pale , a usual , I never have any colour .
That use to be one of Jack 's grievance .
He like pink and white milkmaidish girl .
My `` magnificent pallor '' do n't suit him at all .
But , what be more to the purpose , it suit Gus Sinclair .
He admire the statuesque style .
* * * * * Montreal , Jan. 20 , 18 -- .
Here it be a whole month since my last entry .
I be sit here deck out in `` gloss of satin and glimmer of pearl '' for Mrs. Currie 's dance .
These few minute , after I emerge from the hand of my maid and before the carriage be announce , be almost the only one I ever have to myself .
I be have a good time still .
Somehow , though , it be n't as exciting a it use to be .
I 'm afraid I 'm very changeable .
I believe I must be homesick .
I 'd love to get a glimpse of dear old Thrush Hill and Aunt Elizabeth , and J -- but , no !
I will not write that .
Mr. Sinclair have not speak yet , but there be no doubt that he soon will .
Of course , I shall accept him when he do , and I coolly tell Alicia so when she just a coolly ask me what I mean to do .
`` Certainly , I shall marry him , '' I say crossly , for the subject always irritate me .
`` Have n't I be lay myself out all winter to catch him ?
That be the bold , naked truth , and ugly enough it be .
My dearly beloved sister , I mean to accept Mr. Sinclair , without any hesitation , whenever I get the chance . ''
`` I give you credit for more sense than to dream of do anything else , '' say Alicia in relieved tone .
`` Katherine , you be a very lucky girl . ''
`` Because I be go to marry a rich man for his money ? ''
I say coldly .
Sometimes I get snippy with Alicia these day .
`` No , '' say my half-sister in an exasperated way .
`` Why will you persist in speaking in that way ?
You be very provoking .
It be not likely I would wish to see you throw yourself away on a poor man , and I 'm sure you must like Gus . ''
`` Oh , yes , I like him well enough , '' I say listlessly .
`` To be sure , I do think once , in my salad day , that liking be n't quite all in an affair of this kind .
I be absurd enough to imagine that love have something to do with it . ''
`` Do n't talk so nonsensically , '' say Alicia sharply .
`` Love !
Well , of course , you ought to love your husband , and you will .
He love you enough , at all event . ''
`` Alicia , '' I say earnestly , look her straight in the face and speak bluntly enough to have satisfy even Jack 's love of straightforwardness , `` you marry for money and position , so people say .
Are you happy ? ''
For the first time that I remember , Alicia blush .
She be very angry .
`` Yes , I do marry for money , '' she say sharply , `` and I do n't regret it .
Thank heaven , I never be a fool . ''
`` Do n't be vex , Alicia , '' I entreat .
`` I only ask because -- well , it be no matter . ''
* * * * * Montreal , Jan. 25 , 18 -- .
It be bedtime , but I be too excited and happy and miserable to sleep .
Jack have be here -- dear old Jack !
How glad I be to see him .
His come be so unexpected .
I be sit alone in my room this afternoon -- I believe I be mop -- when Bessie bring up his card .
I give it one rapturous look and tore downstairs , pass Alicia in the hall like a whirlwind , and burst into the drawing-room in a most undignified way .
`` Jack ! ''
I cry , hold out both hand to him in welcome .
There he be , just the same old Jack , with his splendid big shoulder and his lovely brown eye .
And his necktie be crook , too ; as soon a I could get my hand free I put them up and straighten it out for him .
How nice and old-timey that be !
`` So you be glad to see me , Kitty ? ''
he say a he squeeze my hand in his big strong paw . ''
` Deed and ` deed I be , Jack .
I think you have forget me altogether .
And I 've be so homesick and so -- so everything , '' I say incoherently .
`` And , oh , Jack , I 've so many question to ask I do n't know where to begin .
Tell me all the Thrush Hill and Valleyfield news , tell me everything that have happen since I leave .
How many people have you kill off ?
And , oh , why do n't you come to see me before ? ''
`` I do n't think I should be want , Kitty , '' Jack answer quietly .
`` You seem to be so absorbed in your new life that old friend and interest be crowd out . ''
`` So I be at first , '' I answer penitently .
`` I be dazzle , you know .
The glare be too much for my Thrush Hill brown .
But it 's different now .
How do you happen to come , Jack ? ''
`` I have to come to Montreal on business , and I think it would be too bad if I go back without come to see what they have be do in Vanity Fair to my little playmate . ''
`` Well , what do you think they have be do ? ''
I ask saucily .
I have on a particularly fetching gown and know I be look my best .
Jack , however , look me over with his head on one side .
`` Well , I do n't know , Kitty , '' he say slowly .
`` That be a stunning sort of dress you have on -- not so pretty , though , a that old blue muslin you use to wear last summer -- and your hair be pretty good .
But you look rather disdainful and , after all , I believe I prefer Thrush Hill Kitty . ''
How like Jack that be .
He never think me really pretty , and he be too honest to pretend he do .
But I do n't care .
I just laugh , and we sit down together and have a long , delightful , chummy talk .
Jack tell me all the Valleyfield gossip , not forget to mention that Mary Carter be go to be marry to a minister in June .
Jack do n't seem to mind it a bit , so I guess he could n't have be particularly interested in Mary .
In due time Alicia sail in .
I suppose she have find out from Bessie who my caller be , and felt rather worry over the length of our tte--tte .
She greet Jack very graciously , but with a certain polite condescension of which she be past mistress .
I be sure Jack felt it , for , as soon a he decently could , he get up to go .
Alicia ask him to remain to dinner .
`` We be have a few friend to dine with u , but it be quite an informal affair , '' she say sweetly .
I felt that Jack glance at me for the fraction of a second .
But I remember that Gus Sinclair be come too , and I do not look at him .
Then he decline quietly .
He have a business engagement , he say .
I suppose Alicia have notice that look at me , for she show her claw .
`` Do n't forget to call any time you be in Montreal , '' she say more sweetly than ever .
`` I be sure Katherine will always be glad to see any of her old friend , although some of her new one be prove very absorb -- one , in especial .
Do n't blush , Katherine , I be sure Mr. Willoughby wo n't tell any tale out of school to your old Valleyfield friends . ''
I be not blush , and I be furious .
It be really too bad of Alicia , although I do n't see why I need have care .
Alicia keep her eye on u both until Jack be fairly go .
Then she remark in the patronizing tone which I detest : `` Really , Katherine , Jack Willoughby have develop into quite a passable-looking fellow , although he be rather shabby .
But I suppose he be poor . ''
`` Yes , '' I answer curtly , `` he be poor , in everything except youth and manhood and goodness and truth !
But I suppose those do n't count for anything . ''
Whereupon Alicia lift her eyebrow and look me over .
Just at dusk a box arrive with Jack 's compliment .
It be full of lovely white carnation , and must have cost the extravagant fellow more than he have any business to waste on flower .
I be beast enough to put them on when I go down to listen to another man 's love-making .
This evening I sparkle and scintillate with unusual brilliancy , for Jack 's visit and my consequent crossing of sword with Alicia have produce a certain elation of spirit .
When Gus Sinclair be leave he ask if he might see me alone tomorrow afternoon .
I know what that meant , and a cold shiver go up and down my backbone .
But I look down at him -- spick-and-span and glossy -- his necktie be never crook -- and say , yes , he might come at three o'clock .
Alicia have notice our aside -- when do anything ever escape her ?
-- and when he be go she ask , significantly , what secret he have be tell me .
`` He want to see me alone tomorrow afternoon .
I suppose you know what that mean , Alicia ? ''
`` Ah , '' purr Alicia , `` I congratulate you , my dear . ''
`` Are n't your congratulation a little premature ? ''
I ask coldly .
`` I have n't accept him yet . ''
`` But you will ? ''
`` Oh , certainly .
Is n't it what we 've scheme and angle for ?
I 'm very well satisfied . ''
And so I be .
But I wish it have n't come so soon after Jack 's visit , because I feel rather upset yet .
Of course I like Gus Sinclair very much , and I be sure I shall be very fond of him .
Well , I must go to bed now and get my beauty sleep .
I do n't want to be haggard and hollow-eyed at that important interview tomorrow -- an interview that will decide my destiny .
* * * * * Thrush Hill , May 6 , 18 -- .
Well , it do decide it , but not exactly in the way I anticipate .
I can look back on the whole affair quite calmly now , but I would n't live it over again for all the wealth of Ind . .
That day when Gus Sinclair come I be all ready for him .
I have put on my very pretty new gown to do honour to the occasion , and Alicia smilingly assure me I be look very well .
`` And so cool and compose .
Will you be able to keep that up ?
Do n't you really feel a little nervous , Katherine ? ''
`` Not in the least , '' I say .
`` I suppose I ought to be , accord to tradition , but I never felt less fluster in my life . ''
When Bessie bring up Gus Sinclair 's card Alicia drop a pecky little kiss on my cheek , and push me toward the door .
I go down calmly , although I 'll admit that my heart be beat wildly .
Gus Sinclair be plainly nervous , but I be compose enough for both .
You would really have think that I be in the habit of be propose to by a millionaire every day .
`` I suppose you know what I have come to say , '' he say , stand before me , a I lean gracefully back in a big chair , have take care that the fold of my dress fell just a they should .
And then he proceed to say it in a rather jumbled-up fashion , but very sincerely .
I remember think at the time that he must have compose the speech in his head the night before , and rehearse it several time , but be forget it in spot .
When he end with the self-same question that Jack have ask me three month before at Thrush Hill he stop and take my hand .
I look up at him .
His good , homely face be close to mine , and in his eye be an unmistakable look of love and tenderness .
I open my mouth to say yes .
And then there come over me in one rush the most awful realization of the sacrilege I be go to commit .
I forget everything except that I love Jack Willoughby , and that I could never , never marry anybody in the world except him .
Then I pull my hand away and burst into hysterical , undignified tear .
`` I beg your pardon , '' say Mr. Sinclair .
`` I do not mean to startle you .
Have I be too abrupt ?
Surely you must have know -- you must have expect -- '' `` Yes -- yes -- I know , '' I cry miserably , `` and I intend right up to this very minute to marry you .
I 'm so sorry -- but I ca n't -- I ca n't . ''
`` I do n't understand , '' he say in a bewildered tone .
`` If you expect it , then why -- why -- do n't you care for me ? ''
`` No , that 's just it , '' I sob .
`` I do n't love you at all -- and I do love somebody else .
But he be poor , and I hate poverty .
So I refuse him , and I mean to marry you just because you be rich . ''
Such a pained look come over his face .
`` I do not think this of you , '' he say in a low tone .
`` Oh , I know I have act shamefully , '' I say .
`` You ca n't think any bad of me than I do of myself .
How you must despise me ! ''
`` No , '' he say , with a grim smile , `` if I do it would be easy for me .
I might not love you then .
Do n't distress yourself , Katherine .
I do not deny that I feel greatly hurt and disappoint , but I be glad you have be true to yourself at last .
Do n't cry , dear . ''
`` You 're very good , '' I answer disconsolately , `` but all the same the fact remain that I have behave disgracefully to you , and I know you think so .
Oh , Mr. Sinclair , please , please , go away .
I feel so miserably ashamed of myself that I can not look you in the face . ''
`` I be go , dear , '' he say gently .
`` I know all this must be very painful to you , but it be not easy for me , either . ''
`` Can you forgive me ? ''
I say wistfully .
`` Yes , my dear , completely .
Do not let yourself be unhappy over this .
Remember that I will always be your friend .
Goodbye . ''
He hold out his hand and give mine an earnest clasp .
Then he go away .
I remain in the drawing-room , partly because I want to finish out my cry , and partly because , miserable coward that I be , I do n't dare face Alicia .
Finally she come in , her face wreathe with anticipatory smile .
But when her eye fell on my forlorn , crumple self she fairly jump .
`` Katherine , what be the matter ? ''
she ask sharply .
`` Did n't Mr. Sinclair -- '' `` Yes , he do , '' I say desperately .
`` And I 've refuse him .
There now , Alicia ! ''
Then I wait for the storm to burst .
It do n't all at once .
The shock be too great , and at first quite paralyzed my half-sister .
`` Katherine , '' she gasp , `` be you crazy ?
Have you lose your sens ? ''
`` No , I 've just come to them .
It 's true enough , Alicia .
You can scold all you like .
I know I deserve it , and I wo n't flinch .
I do really intend to take him , but when it come to the point I could n't .
I do n't love him . ''
Then , indeed , the storm burst .
I never saw Alicia so angry before , and I never get so roundly abused .
But even Alicia have her limit , and at last she grow calmer .
`` You have behave disgracefully , '' she conclude .
`` I be disgust with you .
You have encourage Gus Sinclair markedly right along , and now you throw him over like this .
I never dream that you be capable of such unwomanly behaviour . ''
`` That 's a hard word , Alicia , '' I protest feebly .
She deal me a wither glance .
`` It do not begin to be as hard a your shameful conduct merit .
To think of lose a fortune like that for the sake of sentimental folly !
I do n't think you be such a consummate fool . ''
`` I suppose you absorbed all the sense of our family , '' I say drearily .
`` There now , Alicia , do leave me alone .
I 'm down in the very depths already . ''
`` What do you mean to do now ? ''
say Alicia scornfully .
`` Go back to Valleyfield and marry that starve country doctor of yours , I suppose ? ''
I flare up then ; Alicia might abuse me all she like , but I be n't go to hear a word against Jack .
`` Yes , I will , if he 'll have me , '' I say , and I march out of the room and upstairs , with my head very high .
Of course I decide to leave Montreal as soon a I could .
But I could n't get away within a week , and it be a very unpleasant one .
Alicia treat me with icy indifference , and I know I should never be reinstate in her good grace .
To my surprise , Roger take my part .
`` Let the girl alone , '' he tell Alicia .
`` If she do n't love Sinclair , she be right in refuse him .
I , for one , be glad that she have get enough truth and womanliness in her to keep her from sell herself . ''
Then he come to the library where I be mop , and lay his hand on my head .
`` Little girl , '' he say earnestly , `` no matter what anyone say to you , never marry a man for his money or for any other reason on earth except because you love him . ''
This comfort me greatly , and I do not cry myself to sleep that night a usual .
At last I get away .
I have telegraph to Jack : `` Am come home Wednesday ; meet me at train , '' and I know he would be there .
How I long to see him again -- dear , old , badly treat Jack .
I get to Valleyfield just at dusk .
It be a rainy evening , and everything be slush and fog and gloom .
But away up I saw the home light at Thrush Hill , and Jack be wait for me on the platform .
`` Oh , Jack ! ''
I say , cling to him , regardless of appearance .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad to be back . ''
`` That 's right , Kitty .
I know you would n't forget u .
How well you be look ! ''
`` I suppose I ought to be look wretched , '' I say penitently .
`` I 've be behave very badly , Jack .
Wait till we get away from the crowd and I 'll tell you all about it . ''
And I do .
I do n't gloss over anything , but just confess the whole truth .
Jack hear me through in silence , and then he kiss me .
`` Can you forgive me , Jack , and take me back ? ''
I whisper , cuddle up to him .
And he say -- but , on second thought , I will not write down what he say .
We be to be marry in June .
A Substitute Journalist Clifford Baxter come into the sitting-room where Patty be darn stocking and read a book at the same time .
Patty could do thing like that .
The stocking be well darn too , and Patty understood and remember what she read .
Clifford flung himself into a chair with a sigh of weariness .
`` Tired ? ''
query Patty sympathetically .
`` Yes , rather .
I 've be tramp about the wharf all day gather longshore item .
But , Patty , I 've get a chance at last .
Tonight a I be leave the office Mr. Harmer give me a real assignment for tomorrow -- two of them in fact , but only one of importance .
I 'm to go and interview Mr. Keefe on this new railroad bill that 's up before the legislature .
He 's in town , visit his old college friend , Mr. Reid , and he 's quite big game .
I would n't have have the assignment , of course , if there 'd be anyone else to send , but most of the staff will be away all day tomorrow to see about that mine explosion at Midbury or the teamster ' strike at Bainsville , and I 'm the only one available .
Harmer give me a pretty broad hint that it be my chance to win my spur , and that if I work up a good article out of it I 'd stand a fair show of be take on permanently next month when Alsop leave .
There 'll be a shuffle all round then , you know .
Everybody on the staff will be push up a peg , and that will leave a vacant space at the foot . ''
Patty throw down her darn needle and clap her hand with delight .
Clifford gaze at her admiringly , think that he have the pretty sister in the world -- she be so bright , so eager , so rosy .
`` Oh , Clifford , how splendid ! ''
she exclaim .
`` Just a we 'd begin to give up hope too .
Oh , you must get the position !
You must hand in a good write-up .
Think what it mean to u . ''
`` Yes , I know . ''
Clifford drop his head on his hand and star rather moodily at the lamp .
`` But my joy be chasten , Patty .
Of course I want to get the permanency , since it seem to be the only possible thing , but you know my heart be n't really in newspaper work .
The plain truth be I do n't like it , although I do my best .
You know Father always say I be a born mechanic .
If I only could get a position somewhere among machinery -- that would be my choice .
There 's one vacant in the Steel and Iron Works at Bancroft -- but of course I 've no chance of get it . ''
`` I know .
It 's too bad , '' say Patty , return to her stocking with a sigh .
`` I wish I be a boy with a foothold on the Chronicle .
I firmly believe that I 'd make a good newspaper woman , if such a thing have ever be hear of in Aylmer . ''
`` That you would .
You 've twice as much knack in that line a I have .
You seem to know by instinct just what to leave out and put in .
I never do , and Harmer have to blue-pencil my copy mercilessly .
Well , I 'll do my best with this , a it 's very necessary I should get the permanency , for I fear our family purse be grow very slim .
Mother 's face have a new wrinkle of worry every day .
It hurt me to see it . ''
`` And me , '' sigh Patty .
`` I do wish I could find something to do too .
If only we both could get position , everything would be all right .
Mother would n't have to worry so .
Do n't say anything about this chance to her until you see what come of it .
She 'd only be doubly disappointed if nothing do .
What be your other assignment ? ''
`` Oh , I 've get to go out to Bancroft on the morning train and write up old Mr. Moreland 's birthday celebration .
He be a hundred year old , and there 's go to be a presentation and speech and that sort of thing .
Nothing very excite about it .
I 'll have to come back on the three o'clock train and hurry out to catch my politician before he leave at five .
Take a stroll down to meet my train , Patty .
We can go out as far a Mr. Reid 's house together , and the walk will do you good . ''
The Baxters live in Aylmer , a lively little town with two newspaper , the Chronicle and the Ledger .
Between these two be a sharp journalistic rivalry in the matter of `` beat '' and `` scoop . ''
In the precede spring Clifford have be take on the Chronicle on trial , a a sort of general handyman .
There be no pay attach to the position , but he be get training and there be the possibility of a permanency in September if he prove his mettle .
Mr. Baxter have die two year before , and the failure of the company in which Mrs. Baxter 's money be invest have leave the little family dependent on their own resource .
Clifford , who have cherish dream of a course in mechanical engineering , know that he must give them up and go to the first work that offer itself , which he do staunchly and uncomplainingly .
Patty , who hitherto have have no design on a `` career , '' but have be sunnily content to be a home girl and Mother 's right hand , also realize that it would be well to look about her for something to do .
She be not really need so far a the work of the little house go , and the whole burden must not be allow to fall on Clifford 's eighteen-year-old shoulder .
Patty be his senior by a year , and ready to do her part unflinchingly .
The next afternoon Patty go down to meet Clifford 's train .
When it come , no Clifford appear .
Patty star about her at the hurry throng in bewilderment .
Where be Clifford ?
Had n't he come on the train ?
Surely he must have , for there be no other until seven o'clock .
She must have miss him somehow .
Patty wait until everybody have leave the station , then she walk slowly homeward .
As the Chronicle office be on her way , she drop in to see if Clifford have report there .
She find nobody in the editorial office except the office boy , Larry Brown , who promptly inform her that not only have Clifford not arrive , but that there be a telegram from him say that he have miss his train .
Patty gasp in dismay .
It be dreadful !
`` Where be Mr. Harmer ? ''
she ask .
`` He go home as soon a the afternoon edition come out .
He leave before the telegram come .
He 'll be furious when he find out that nobody have go to interview that foxy old politician , '' say Larry , who know all about Clifford 's assignment and it importance .
`` Is n't there anyone else here to go ? ''
query Patty desperately .
Larry shake his head .
`` No , there be n't a soul in .
We 're mighty short-handed just now on account of the explosion and the strike . ''
Patty go downstairs and stood for a moment in the hall , rapt in reflection .
If she have be at home , she verily believe she would have sit down and cried .
Oh , it be too bad , too disappointing !
Clifford would certainly lose all chance of the permanency , even if the irate news editor do not discharge him at once .
What could she do ?
Could she do anything ?
She must do something .
`` If I only could go in his place , '' moan Patty softly to herself .
Then she start .
Why not ?
Why not go and interview the big man herself ?
To be sure , she do not know a great deal about interviewing , still less about railroad bill , and nothing at all about politics .
But if she do her best it might be good than nothing , and might at least save Clifford his present hold .
With Patty , to decide be to act .
She fly back to the reporter ' room , pounce on a pencil and tablet , and hurry off , her breath come quickly , and her eye shin with excitement .
It be quite a long walk out to Mr. Reid 's place and Patty be tire when she get there , but her courage be not a whit abate .
She mount the step and ring the bell undauntedly .
`` Can I see Mr. -- Mr. -- Mr. -- '' Patty pause for a moment in dismay .
She have forget the name .
The maid who have come to the door look her over so superciliously that Patty flush with indignation .
`` The gentleman who be visit Mr. Reid , '' she say crisply .
`` I ca n't remember his name , but I 've come to interview him on behalf of the Chronicle .
Is he in ? ''
`` If you mean Mr. Reefer , he be , '' say the maid quite respectfully .
Evidently the Chronicle 's name carry weight in the Reid establishment .
`` Please come into the library .
I 'll go and tell him . ''
Patty have just time to seat herself at the table , spread out her paper imposingly , and assume a businesslike air when Mr. Reefer come in .
He be a tall , handsome old man with white hair , jet-black eye , and a mouth that make Patty hope she would n't stumble on any question he would n't want to answer .
Patty know she would waste her breath if she do .
A man with a mouth like that would never tell anything he do n't want to tell .
`` Good afternoon .
What can I do for you , madam ? ''
inquired Mr. Reefer with the air and tone of a man who mean to be courteous , but have no time or information to waste .
Patty be almost overcome by the `` Madam . ''
For a moment , she quail .
She could n't ask that masculine sphinx question !
Then the thought of her mother 's pale , careworn face flash across her mind , and all her courage come back with an inspirit rush .
She bend forward to look eagerly into Mr. Reefer 's carve , granite face , and say with a frank smile : `` I have come to interview you on behalf of the Chronicle about the railroad bill .
It be my brother who have the assignment , but he have miss his train and I have come in his place because , you see , it be so important to u .
So much depend on this assignment .
Perhaps Mr. Harmer will give Clifford a permanent place on the staff if he turn in a good article about you .
He be only handyman now .
I just could n't let him miss the chance -- he might never have another .
And it mean so much to u and Mother . ''
`` Are you a member of the Chronicle staff yourself ? ''
inquired Mr. Reefer with a shade more geniality in his tone .
`` Oh , no !
I 've nothing to do with it , so you wo n't mind my be inexperienced , will you ?
I do n't know just what I should ask you , so wo n't you please just tell me everything about the bill , and Mr. Harmer can cut out what do n't matter ? ''
Mr. Reefer look at Patty for a few moment with a face about as expressive a a graven image .
Perhaps he be think about the bill , and perhaps he be think what a bright , vivid , plucky little girl this be with her wait pencil and her air that strive to be businesslike , and only succeed in be eager and hopeful and anxious .
`` I 'm not use to be interview myself , '' he say slowly , `` so I do n't know very much about it .
We 're both green hand together , I imagine .
But I 'd like to help you out , so I do n't mind tell you what I think about this bill , and it bearing on certain important interest . ''
Mr. Reefer proceed to tell her , and Patty 's pencil fly a she scribble down his terse , pithy sentence .
She find herself ask question too , and enjoy it .
For the first time , Patty think she might rather like politics if she understand them -- and they do not seem so hard to understand when a man like Mr. Reefer explain them .
For half an hour he talk to her , and at the end of that time Patty be in full possession of his opinion on the famous railroad bill in all it aspect .
`` There now , I 'm talk out , '' say Mr. Reefer .
`` You can tell your news editor that you know as much about the railroad bill a Andrew Reefer know .
I hope you 'll succeed in please him , and that your brother will get the position he want .
But he should n't have miss that train .
You tell him that .
Boys with important thing to do must n't miss train .
Perhaps it 's just as well he do in this case though , but tell him not to let it happen again . ''
Patty go straight home , write up her interview in ship-shape form , and take it down to the Chronicle office .
There she find Mr. Harmer , scowl blackly .
The little news editor look to be in a rather bad temper , but he nod not unkindly to Patty .
Mr. Harmer know the Baxters well and like them , although he would have sacrifice them all without a qualm for a `` scoop . ''
`` Good evening , Patty .
Take a chair .
That brother of yours have n't turn up yet .
The next time I give him an assignment , he 'll manage to be on hand in time to do it . ''
`` Oh , '' cry Patty breathlessly , `` please , Mr. Harmer , I have the interview here .
I think perhaps I could do it in Clifford 's place , and I go out to Mr. Reid 's and saw Mr. Reefer .
He be very kind and -- '' `` Mr. who ? ''
fairly shout Mr. Harmer .
`` Mr. Reefer -- Mr. Andrew Reefer .
He tell me to tell you that this article contain all he know or think about the railroad bill and -- '' But Mr. Harmer be no longer listening .
He have snatch the neatly write sheet of Patty 's report and be skim over them with a practised eye .
Then Patty think he must have go crazy .
He dance around the office , wave the sheet in the air , and then he dash frantically up the stair to the composing room .
Ten minute later , he return and shake the mystify Patty by the hand .
`` Patty , it 's the big beat we 've ever have !
We 've scoop not only the Ledger , but every other newspaper in the country .
How do you do it ?
How do you ever beguile or bewitch Andrew Reefer into give you an interview ? ''
`` Why , '' say Patty in utter bewilderment , `` I just go out to Mr. Reid 's and ask for the gentleman who be visit there -- I 'd forget his name -- and Mr. Reefer come down and I tell him my brother have be detail to interview him on behalf of the Chronicle about the bill , and that Clifford have miss his train , and would n't he let me interview him in his place and excuse my inexperience -- and he do . ''
`` It be n't Andrew Reefer I tell Clifford to interview , '' laugh Mr. Harmer .
`` It be John C. Keefe .
I do n't know Reefer be in town , but even if I have I would n't have think it a particle of use to send a man to him .
He have never consent to be interview before on any know subject , and he 's be especially close-mouthed about this bill , although men from all the big paper in the country have be after him .
He be notorious on that score .
Why , Patty , it 's the big journalistic fish that have ever be land in this office .
Andrew Reefer 's opinion on the bill will have a tremendous influence .
We 'll run the interview a a leader in a special edition that be under way already .
Of course , he must have be ready to give the information to the public or nothing would have induce him to open his mouth .
But to think that we should be the first to get it !
Patty , you 're a brick ! ''
Clifford come home on the seven o'clock train , and Patty be there to meet him , brimful of her story .
But Clifford also have a story to tell and get his word in first .
`` Now , Patty , do n't scold until you hear why I miss the train .
I meet Mr. Peabody of the Steel and Iron Company at Mr. Moreland 's and get into conversation with him .
When he find out who I be , he be greatly interested and say Father have be one of his best friend when they be at college together .
I tell him about want to get the position in the company , and he have me go right out to the work and see about it .
And , Patty , I have the place .
Goodbye to the grind of newspaper item and filler .
I try to get back to the station at Bancroft in time to catch the train but I could n't , and it be just as well , for Mr. Keefe be suddenly summon home this afternoon , and when the three-thirty train from town stop at Bancroft he be on it .
I find that out and I get on , go to the next station with him and get my interview after all .
It 's here in my notebook , and I must hurry up to the office and hand it in .
I suppose Mr. Harmer will be very much vexed until he find that I have it . ''
`` Oh , no .
Mr. Harmer be in a very good humour , '' say Patty with dance eye .
Then she tell her story .
The interview with Mr. Reefer come out with glare headline , and the Chronicle have it hour of fame and glory .
The next day Mr. Harmer send word to Patty that he want to see her .
`` So Clifford be leave , '' he say abruptly when she enter the office .
`` Well , do you want his place ? ''
`` Mr. Harmer , be you joke ? ''
demand Patty in amazement .
`` Not I .
That stuff you hand in be splendidly write -- I do n't have to use the pencil more than once or twice .
You have the proper journalist instinct all right .
We need a lady on the staff anyhow , and if you 'll take the place it 's yours for say so , and the permanency next month . ''
`` I 'll take it , '' say Patty promptly and joyfully .
`` Good .
Go down to the Symphony Club rehearsal this afternoon and report it .
You 've just ten minute to get there , '' and Patty joyfully and promptly depart .
Anna 's Love Letters `` Are you go to answer Gilbert 's letter tonight , Anna ? ''
ask Alma Williams , stand in the pantry doorway , tall , fair , and grey-eyed , with the sunset light come down over the dark fir , through the window behind her , and make a primrose nimbus around her shapely head .
Anna , dark , vivid , and slender , be perch on the edge of the table , idly swing her slippered foot at the cat 's head .
She smile wickedly at Alma before reply .
`` I be not go to answer it tonight or any other night , '' she say , twist her full , red lip in a way that Alma have learn to dread .
Mischief be ripen in Anna 's brain when that twist be out .
`` What do you mean ? ''
ask Alma anxiously .
`` Just what I say , dear , '' respond Anna , with deceptive meekness .
`` Poor Gilbert be go , and I do n't intend to bother my head about him any longer .
He be amuse while he last , but of what use be a beau two thousand mile away , Alma ? ''
Alma be patient -- outwardly .
It be never of any avail to show impatience with Anna .
`` Anna , you be talk foolishly .
Of course you be go to answer his letter .
You be as good a engage to him .
Was n't that practically understood when he leave ? ''
`` No , no , dear , '' and Anna shake her sleek black head with the air of explain matter to an obtuse child . ''
I be the only one who understand .
Gil mis_understood .
He think that I would really wait for him until he should have make enough money to come home and pay off the mortgage .
I let him think so , because I hat to hurt his little feeling .
But now it 's off with the old love and on with a new one for me . ''
`` Anna , you can not be in earnest ! ''
exclaim Alma .
But she be afraid that Anna be in earnest .
Anna have a wretched habit of be in earnest when she say flippant thing .
`` You do n't mean that you be not go to write to Gilbert at all -- after all you promise ? ''
Anna place her elbow daintily on the top of the rock chair , drop her point chin in her hand , and look at Alma with black demure eye .
`` I -- do -- mean -- just -- that , '' she say slowly .
`` I never mean to marry Gilbert Murray .
This be final , Alma , and you need not scold or coax , because it would be a waste of breath .
Gilbert be safely out of the way , and now I be go to have a good time with a few other delightful men creature in Exeter . ''
Anna nod decisively , flash a smile at Alma , pick up her cat , and go out .
At the door she turn and look back , with the big black cat snuggle under her chin .
`` If you think Gilbert will feel very badly over his letter not be answer , you might answer it yourself , Alma , '' she say teasingly .
`` There it be '' -- she take the letter from the pocket of her ruffled apron and throw it on a chair .
`` You may read it if you want to ; it be n't really a love letter .
I tell Gilbert he be n't to write silly letter .
Come , pussy , I 'm go to get ready for prayer meeting .
We 've get a nice , new , young , good-looking minister in Exeter , pussy , and that make prayer meet very interesting . ''
Anna shut the door , her depart laugh ripple mockingly through the dusk .
Alma pick up Gilbert Murray 's letter and go to her room .
She want to cry , since she could not shake Anna .
Even if she could have shake her , it would only have make her more perverse .
Anna be in earnest ; Alma know that , even while she hop and believe that it be but the earnestness of a freak that would pass in time .
Anna have have one like it a year ago , when she have cast Gilbert off for three month , drive him distract by flirt with Charlie Moore .
Then she have suddenly repent and take him back .
Alma think that this whim would run it course likewise and leave a repentant Anna .
But meanwhile everything might be spoil .
Gilbert might not prove forgive a second time .
Alma would have give much if she could only have induce Anna to answer Gilbert 's letter , but coax Anna to do anything be a very sure and effective way of prevent her from do it .
* * * * * Alma and Anna have live alone at the old Williams homestead ever since their mother 's death four year before .
Exeter matron think this hardly proper , since Alma , in spite of her grave way , be only twenty-four .
The farm be rent , so that Alma 's only responsibility be the post office which she keep , and that harum-scarum beauty of an Anna .
The Murray homestead adjoin theirs .
Gilbert Murray have grow up with Alma ; they have be friend ever since she could remember .
Alma love Gilbert with a love which she herself believe to be purely sisterly , and which nobody else doubt could be , since she have be at pain to make a match -- Exeter matron ' phrasing -- between Gil and Anna , and be manifestly delight when Gilbert obligingly fell in love with the latter .
There be a small mortgage on the Murray place which Mr. Murray senior have not be able to pay off .
Gilbert determine to get rid of it , and his thought turn to the west .
His father be an active , hale old man , quite capable of manage the farm in Gilbert 's absence .
Alexander MacNair have go to the west two year previously and get work on a new railroad .
He write to Gilbert to come too , promise him plenty of work and good pay .
Gilbert go , but before go he have ask Anna to marry him .
It be the first proposal Anna have ever have , and she manage it quite cleverly , from her standpoint .
She tell Gilbert that he must wait until he come home again before settle that , meanwhile , they would be very good friend -- emphasize with a blush -- and that he might write to her .
She kiss him goodbye , and Gilbert , honest fellow , be quite satisfied .
When an Exeter girl have allow so much to be infer , it be understand to be equivalent to an engagement .
Gilbert have never discern that Anna be not like the other Exeter girl , but be a law unto herself .
Alma sit down by her window and look out over the lane where the slim wild cherry tree be bronze under the autumn frost .
Her lip be very firmly set .
Something must be do .
But what ?
Alma 's heart be set on this marriage for two reason .
Firstly , if Anna marry Gilbert she would be near her all her life .
She could not bear the thought that some day Anna might leave her and go far away to live .
In the second and large place , she desire the marriage because Gilbert do .
She have always be desirous , even in the old , childish play-days , that Gilbert should get just exactly what he want .
She have always take a keen , strange delight in further his wish .
Anna 's falseness would surely break his heart , and Alma wince at the thought of his pain .
There be one thing she could do .
Anna 's torment suggestion have fall on fertile soil .
Alma balance pro and con , admit the risk .
But she would have take a tenfold large risk in the hope of hold secure Anna 's place in Gilbert 's affection until Anna herself should come to her sens .
When it grow quite dark and Anna have go lilt down the lane on her way to prayer meeting , Alma light her lamp , read Gilbert 's letter -- and answer it .
Her handwriting be much like Anna 's .
She sign the letter `` A. Williams , '' and there be nothing in it that might not have be write by her to Gilbert ; but she know that Gilbert would believe Anna have write it , and she intend him so to believe .
Alma never do a thing halfway when she do it at all .
At first she write rather constrainedly but , reflect that in any case Anna would have write a merely friendly letter , she allow her thought to run freely , and the result epistle be an excellent one of it kind .
Alma have the gift of expression and more brain than Exeter people have ever imagine she possess .
When Gilbert read that letter a fortnight later he be surprise to find that Anna be so clever .
He have always , with a secret regret , think her much inferior to Alma in this respect , but that delightful letter , witty , wise , fanciful , be the letter of a clever woman .
When a year have pass Alma be still write to Gilbert the letter sign `` A. Williams . ''
She have cease to fear be find out , and she take a strange pleasure in the correspondence for it own sake .
At first she have be quakingly afraid of discovery .
When she smuggle the letter address in Gilbert 's handwriting to Miss Anna Williams out of the letter packet and hide them from Anna 's eye , she felt as guilty a if she be break all the law of the land at once .
To be sure , she know that she would have to confess to Anna some day , when the latter repent and begin to wish she have write to Gilbert , but that be a very different thing from premature disclosure .
But Anna have a yet give no sign of such repentance , although Alma look for it anxiously .
Anna be have the time of her life .
She be the acknowledged beauty of five settlement , and she go forward on her career of conquest quite undisturbed by the jealousy and heart-burnings she provoke on every side .
One moonlight night she go for a sleigh-drive with Charlie Moore of East Exeter -- and return to tell Alma that they be marry !
`` I know you would make a fuss , Alma , because you do n't like Charlie , so we just take matter into our own hand .
It be so much more romantic , too .
I 'd always say I 'd never be marry in any of your dull , commonplace way .
You might as well forgive me and be nice right off , Alma , because you 'd have to do it anyway , in time .
Well , you do look surprised ! ''
* * * * * Alma accept the situation with an apathy that amaze Anna .
The truth be that Alma be stun by a thought that have come to her even while Anna be speak .
`` Gilbert will find out about the letter now , and despise me . ''
Nothing else , not even the fact that Anna have marry shiftless Charlie Moore , seem worth while consider beside this .
The fear and shame of it haunt her like a nightmare ; she shrink every morning from the thought of all the mail that be come that day , fear that there would be an angry , puzzled letter from Gilbert .
He must certainly soon hear of Anna 's marriage ; he would see it in the home paper , other correspondent in Exeter would write him of it .
Alma grow sick at heart thinking of the complication in front of her .
When Gilbert 's letter come she leave it for a whole day before she could summon courage to open it .
But it be a harmless epistle after all ; he have not yet hear of Anna 's marriage .
Alma have at first no thought of answer it , yet her finger ache to do so .
Now that Anna be go , her loneliness be unbearable .
She realize how much Gilbert 's letter have mean to her , even when write to another woman .
She could bear her life well enough , she think , if she only have his letter to look forward to .
No more letter come from Gilbert for six week .
Then come one , alarm at Anna 's silence , anxiously ask the reason for it ; Gilbert have hear no word of the marriage .
He be work in a remote district where newspaper seldom penetrate .
He have no other correspondent in Exeter now ; except his mother , and she , not know that he suppose himself engage to Anna have forget to mention it .
Alma answer that letter .
She tell herself recklessly that she would keep on write to him until he find out .
She would lose his friendship anyhow , when that occur , but meanwhile she would have the letter a little long .
She could not learn to live without them until she have to .
The correspondence slip back into it old groove .
The harass look which Alma 's face have wear , and which Exeter people have attribute to worry over Anna , disappear .
She do not even feel lonely , and reproach herself for lack of proper feeling in miss Anna so little .
Besides , to her horror and dismay , she detect in herself a strange undercurrent of relief at the thought that Gilbert could never marry Anna now !
She could not understand it .
Had not that marriage be her dear wish for year ?
Why then should she feel this strange gladness at the impossibility of it fulfilment ?
Altogether , Alma fear that her condition of mind and moral must be sadly askew .
Perhaps , she think mournfully , this perversion of proper feeling be her punishment for the deception she have practise .
She have deliberately do evil that good might come , and now the very imagination of her heart be stain by that evil .
Alma cry herself to sleep many a night in her repentance , but she keep on write to Gilbert , for all that .
The winter pass , and the spring and summer wan , and Alma 's outward life flow as smoothly a the current of the season , break only by vivid eruption from Anna , who come over often from East Exeter , glory in her young matronhood , `` to cheer Alma up . ''
Alma , so say Exeter people , be become unsociable and old maidish .
She lose her like for company , and seldom go anywhere among her neighbour .
Her once frequent visit across the yard to chat with old Mrs. Murray become few and far between .
She could not bear to hear the old lady talk about Gilbert , and she be afraid that some day she would be tell that he be come home .
Gilbert 's home-coming be the nightmare dread that darken poor Alma 's whole horizon .
* * * * * One October day , two year after Gilbert 's departure , Alma , stand at her window in the reflected glow of a red maple outside , look down the lane and saw him stride up it !
She have have no warning of his come .
His last letter , date three week back , have not hint at it .
Yet there he be -- and with him Alma 's Nemesis .
She be very calm .
Now that the bad have come , she felt quite strong to meet it .
She would tell Gilbert the truth , and he would go away in anger and never forgive her , but she deserve it .
As she go downstairs , the only thing that really worry her be the thought of the pain Gilbert would suffer when she tell him of Anna 's faithlessness .
She have see his face a he pass under her window , and it be the face of a blithe man who have not hear any evil tidings .
It be leave to her to tell him ; surely , she think apathetically , that be punishment enough for what she have do .
With her hand on the doorknob , she pause to wonder what she should say when he ask her why she have not tell him of Anna 's marriage when it occur -- why she have still continue the deception when it have no longer an end to serve .
Well , she would tell him the truth -- that it be because she could not bear the thought of give up write to him .
It be a humiliating thing to confess , but that do not matter -- nothing matter now .
She open the door .
Gilbert be stand on the big round door-stone under the red maple -- a tall , handsome young fellow with a bronzed face and laughing eye .
His exile have improve him .
Alma find time and ability to reflect that she have never know Gilbert be so fine-looking .
He put his arm around her and kiss her cheek in his frank delight at see her again .
Alma coldly ask him in .
Her face be still as pale a when she come downstairs , but a curious little spot of fiery red blossom out where Gilbert 's lip have touch it .
Gilbert follow her into the sitting-room and look about eagerly .
`` When do you come home ? ''
she say slowly .
`` I do not know you be expect . ''
`` Got homesick , and just come !
I want to surprise you all , '' he answer , laugh .
`` I arrive only a few minute ago .
Just take time to hug my mother , and here I be .
Where 's Anna ? ''
The pent-up retribution of two year descend on Alma 's head in the last question of Gilbert 's .
But she do not flinch .
She stand straight before him , tall and fair and pale , with the red maple light stream in through the open door behind her , stain her light house-dress and mellow the golden sheen of her hair .
Gilbert reflect that Alma Williams be really a very handsome girl .
These two year have improve her .
What splendid big grey eye she have !
He have always wish that Anna 's eye have not be quite so black .
`` Anna be not here , '' say Alma .
`` She be married . ''
`` Married ! ''
Gilbert sit down suddenly on a chair and look at Alma in bewilderment .
`` She have be marry for a year , '' say Alma steadily .
`` She marry Charlie Moore of East Exeter , and have be live there ever since . ''
`` Then , '' say Gilbert , lay hold of the one solid fact that loom out of the mist of his confused understanding , `` why do she keep on write letter to me after she be marry ? ''
`` She never write to you at all .
It be I that write the letter . ''
Gilbert look at Alma doubtfully .
Was she crazy ?
There be something odd about her , now that he notice , a she stand rigidly there , with that queer red spot on her face , a strange fire in her eye , and that weird reflection from the maple envelop her like an immaterial flame .
`` I do n't understand , '' he say helplessly .
Still stand there , Alma tell the whole story , give full explanation , but no excuse .
She tell it clearly and simply , for she have often picture this scene to herself and think out what she must say .
Her memory work automatically , and her tongue obey it promptly .
To herself she seem like a machine , talk mechanically , while her soul stand on one side and listen .
When she have finish there be a silence last perhaps ten second .
To Alma it seem like hour .
Would Gilbert overwhelm her with angry reproach , or would he simply rise up and leave her in unutterable contempt ?
It be the most tragic moment of her life , and her whole personality be string up to meet it and withstand it .
`` Well , they be good letter , anyhow , '' say Gilbert finally ; `` interesting letter , '' he add , a if by way of a meditative afterthought .
It be so anti-climactic that Alma break into an hysterical giggle , cut short by a sob .
She drop into a chair by the table and fling her hand over her face , laugh and sob softly to herself .
Gilbert rise and walk to the door , where he stand with his back to her until she regain her self-control .
Then he turn and look down at her quizzically .
Alma 's hand lay limply in her lap , and her eye be cast down , with tear glisten on the long fair lash .
She felt his gaze on her .
`` Can you ever forgive me , Gilbert ? ''
she say humbly .
`` I do n't know that there be much to forgive , '' he answer .
`` I have some explanation to make too and , since we 're at it , we might as well get them all over and have do with them .
Two year ago I do honestly think I be in love with Anna -- at least when I be round where she be .
She have a take way with her .
But , somehow , even then , when I be n't with her she seem to kind of grow dim and not count for so awful much after all .
I use to wish she be more like you -- quieter , you know , and not so sparkling .
When I part from her that last night before I go west , I do feel very bad , and she seem very dear to me , but it be six week from that before her -- your -- letter come , and in that time she seem to have fade out of my thought .
Honestly , I be n't think much about her at all .
Then come the letter -- and it be a splendid one , too .
I have never think that Anna could write a letter like that , and I be as pleased a Punch about it .
The letter keep come , and I keep on look for them more and more all the time .
I fell in love all over again -- with the writer of those letter .
I think it be Anna , but since you write the letter , it must have be with you , Alma .
I think it be because she be grow more womanly that she could write such letter .
That be why I come home .
I want to get acquaint all over again , before she grow beyond me altogether -- I want to find the real Anna the letter show me .
I -- I -- do n't expect this .
But I do n't care if Anna be marry , so long a the girl who write those letter be n't .
It 's you I love , Alma . ''
He bend down and put his arm about her , lay his cheek against hers .
The little red spot where his kiss have fall be now quite drown out in the colour that rush over her face .
`` If you 'll marry me , Alma , I 'll forgive you , '' he say .
A little smile escape from the duress of Alma 's lip and twitch her dimple .
`` I 'm willing to do anything that will win your forgiveness , Gilbert , '' she say meekly .
Aunt Caroline 's Silk Dress Patty come in from her walk to the post office with cheek finely redden by the crisp air .
Carry survey her with pleasure .
Of late Patty 's cheek have be entirely too pale to please Carry , and Patty have not have a very good appetite .
Once or twice she have even complain of a headache .
So Carry have send her to the office for a walk that night , although the post office trip be usually Carry 's own special constitutional , always very welcome to her after a weary day of sew on other people 's pretty dress .
Carry never sew on pretty dress for herself , for the simple reason that she never have any pretty dress .
Carry be twenty-two -- and feel forty , her last pretty dress have be when she be a girl of twelve , before her father have die .
To be sure , there be the silk organdie Aunt Kathleen have send her , but that be fit only for party , and Carry never go to any party .
`` Did you get any mail , Patty ? ''
she ask unexpectantly .
There be never much mail for the Lea girl .
`` Yes 'm , '' say Patty briskly .
`` Here 's the Weekly Advocate , and a patent medicine almanac with all your dream expound , and a letter for Miss Carry M. Lea .
It 's postmarked Enfield , and have a suspiciously matrimonial look .
I 'm sure it 's an invitation to Chris Fairley 's wedding .
Hurry up and see , Caddy . ''
Carry , with a little flush of excitement on her face , open her letter .
Sure enough , it contain an invitation `` to be present at the marriage of Christine Fairley . ''
`` How jolly ! ''
exclaim Patty .
`` Of course you 'll go , Caddy .
You 'll have a chance to wear that lovely organdie of yours at last . ''
`` It be sweet of Chris to invite me , '' say Carry .
`` I really do n't expect it . ''
`` Well , I do .
Was n't she your most intimate friend when she live in Enderby ? ''
`` Oh , yes , but it be four year since she leave , and some people might forget in four year .
But I might have know Chris would n't .
Of course I 'll go . ''
`` And you 'll make up your organdie ? ''
`` I shall have to , '' laugh Carry , forget all her trouble for a moment , and feel young and joyous over the prospect of a festivity .
`` I have n't another thing that would do to wear to a wedding .
If I have n't that bless organdie I could n't go , that 's all . ''
`` But you have it , and it will look lovely make up with a tucked skirt .
Tucks be so fashionable now .
