` What be the matter with me ? '
she think , but somehow or other she manage to reach the hut , and throw herself down in a corner , where she sleep so soundly that for day no one be able to wake her .
At length , one morning early , a cock begin to crow so loud that she could sleep no longer and a he continue to crow she seem to understand what he be say , and that he be tell her that Djulung be dead , kill and eat by her sister , and that his bone lay bury under the kitchen fire .
Very softly she get up , and take up the large stone under the fire , and creep out carry the bone to the cave by the fountain , where she dig a hole and bury them anew .
And a she scoop out the hole with a stick she sing a song , bid the bone grow till they become a tree -- a tree that reach up so high into the heaven that it leaf would fall across the sea into another island , whose king would pick them up .
As there be no Djulung to give her rice to , the girl soon become fat again , and a she be able to do her work a of old , her sister do not trouble about her .
They never guess that when she go into the forest to gather her stick , she never fail to pay a visit to the tree , which grow taller and more wonderful day by day .
Never be such a tree see before .
Its trunk be of iron , it leaf be of silk , it flower of gold , and it fruit of diamond , and one evening , though the girl do not know it , a soft breeze take one of the leaf , and blow it across the sea to the foot of one of the king 's attendant .
` What a curious leaf !
I have never behold one like it before .
I must show it to the king , ' he say , and when the king saw it he declare he would never rest until he have find the tree which bore it , even if he have to spend the rest of his life in visit the island that lay all round .
Happily for him , he begin with the island that be nearest , and here in the forest he suddenly saw stand before him the iron tree , it bough cover with shin leaf like the one he carry about him .
` But what sort of a tree be it , and how do it get here ? '
he ask of the attendant he have with him .
No one could answer him , but a they be about to pass out of the forest a little boy go by , and the king stop and inquired if there be anyone living in the neighbourhood whom he might question .
` Seven girl live in a hut down there , ' reply the boy , point with his finger to where the sun be set .
` Then go and bring them here , and I will wait , ' say the king , and the boy run off and tell the sister that a great chief , with string of jewel round his neck , have send for them .
Pleased and excite the six elder sister at once follow the boy , but the young , who be busy , and who do not care about stranger , stay behind , to finish the work she be do .
The king welcome the girl eagerly , and ask them all manner of question about the tree , but a they have never even heard of it existence , they could tell him nothing .
` And if we , who live close by the forest , do not know , you may be sure no one do , ' add the eldest , who be rather cross at find this be all that the king want of them .
` But the boy tell me there be seven of you , and there be only six here , ' say the king .
` Oh , the young be at home , but she be always half asleep , and be of no use except to cut wood for the fire , ' reply they in a breath .
` That may be , but perhaps she dream , ' answer the king .
` Anyway , I will speak to her also . '
Then he sign to one of his attendant , who follow the path that the boy have take to the hut .
Soon the man return , with the girl walk behind him .
And as soon a she reach the tree it bow itself to the earth before her , and she stretch out her hand and pick some of it leaf and flower and give them to the king .
` The maiden who can work such wonder be fit to be the wife of the great chief , ' he say , and so he marry her , and take her with him across the sea to his own home , where they live happily for ever after .
From ` Folk Lore , ' by A. F. Mackenzie .
The Sea King 's Gift There be once a fisherman who be call Salmon , and his Christian name be Matte .
He live by the shore of the big sea ; where else could he live ?
He have a wife call Maie ; could you find a good name for her ?
In winter they dwell in a little cottage by the shore , but in spring they flit to a red rock out in the sea and stay there the whole summer until it be autumn .
The cottage on the rock be even small than the other ; it have a wooden bolt instead of an iron lock to the door , a stone hearth , a flagstaff , and a weather-cock on the roof .
The rock be call Ahtola , and be not large than the market-place of a town .
Between the crevice there grow a little rowan tree and four alder bush .
Heaven only know how they ever come there ; perhaps they be bring by the winter storm .
Besides that , there flourish some tuft of velvety grass , some scattered reed , two plant of the yellow herb call tansy , four of a red flower , and a pretty white one ; but the treasure of the rock consist of three root of garlic , which Maie have put in a cleft .
Rock wall shelter them on the north side , and the sun shone on them on the south .
This do not seem much , but it suffice Maie for a herb plot .
All good thing go in three , so Matte and his wife fish for salmon in spring , for herring in summer , and for cod in winter .
When on Saturdays the weather be fine and the wind favourable , they sail to the near town , sell their fish , and go to church on Sunday .
But it often happen that for week at a time they be quite alone on the rock Ahtola , and have nothing to look at except their little yellow-brown dog , which bore the grand name of Prince , their grass tuft , their bush and bloom , the sea bay and fish , a stormy sky and the blue , white-crested wave .
For the rock lay far away from the land , and there be no green islet or human habitation for mile round , only here and there appear a rock of the same red stone a Ahtola , besprinkle day and night with the ocean spray .
Matte and Maie be industrious , hard-working folk , happy and content in their poor hut , and they think themselves rich when they be able to salt a many cask of fish a they require for winter and yet have some leave over with which to buy tobacco for the old man , and a pound or two of coffee for his wife , with plenty of burn corn and chicory in it to give it a flavour .
Besides that , they have bread , butter , fish , a beer cask , and a buttermilk jar ; what more do they require ?
All would have go well have not Maie be possess with a secret longing which never let her rest ; and this be , how she could manage to become the owner of a cow .
` What would you do with a cow ? '
ask Matte .
` She could not swim so far , and our boat be not large enough to bring her over here ; and even if we have her , we have nothing to fee her on . '
` We have four alder bush and sixteen tuft of grass , ' rejoin Maie .
` Yes , of course , ' laugh Matte , ` and we have also three plant of garlic .
Garlic would be fine feeding for her . '
` Every cow like salt herring , ' rejoin his wife .
` Even Prince be fond of fish . '
` That may be , ' say her husband .
` Methinks she would soon be a dear cow if we have to fee her on salt herring .
All very well for Prince , who fight with the gull over the last morsel .
Put the cow out of your head , mother , we be very well off a we be . '
Maie sigh .
She know well that her husband be right , but she could not give up the idea of a cow .
The buttermilk no longer taste as good a usual in the coffee ; she think of sweet cream and fresh butter , and of how there be nothing in the world to be compare with them .
One day a Matte and his wife be clean herring on the shore they hear Prince barking , and soon there appear a gaily paint boat with three young men in it , steer towards the rock .
They be student , on a boating excursion , and want to get something to eat .
` Bring u a junket , good mother , ' cry they to Maie .
` Ah !
if only I have such a thing ! '
sigh Maie . '
A can of fresh milk , then , ' say the student ; ` but it must not be skim . '
` Yes , if only I have it ! '
sigh the old woman , still more deeply .
` What !
have n't you get a cow ? '
Maie be silent .
This question so strike her to the heart that she could not reply .
` We have no cow , ' Matte answer ; ` but we have good smoke herring , and can cook them in a couple of hour . '
` All right , then , that will do , ' say the student , a they fling themselves down on the rock , while fifty silvery-white herring be turn on the spit in front of the fire .
` What 's the name of this little stone in the middle of the ocean ? '
ask one of them .
` Ahtola , ' answer the old man .
` Well , you should want for nothing when you live in the Sea King 's dominion . '
Matte do not understand .
He have never read Kalevala and know nothing of the sea god of old , but the student proceed to explain to him .
-LSB- FN # 2 : Kalevala be a collection of old Finnish song about god and hero . -RSB-
` Ahti , ' say they , ` be a mighty king who live in his dominion of Ahtola , and have a rock at the bottom of the sea , and possess besides a treasury of good thing .
He rule over all fish and animal of the deep ; he have the fine cow and the swiftest horse that ever chew grass at the bottom of the ocean .
He who stand well with Ahti be soon a rich man , but one must beware in deal with him , for he be very changeful and touchy .
Even a little stone throw into the water might offend him , and then a he take back his gift , he stir up the sea into a storm and drag the sailor down into the depth .
Ahti own also the fair maiden , who bear the train of his queen Wellamos , and at the sound of music they comb their long , flow lock , which glisten in the water . '
` Oh ! '
cry Matte , ` have your worship really see all that ? '
` We have as good a see it , ' say the student .
` It be all print in a book , and everything print be true . '
` I 'm not so sure of that , ' say Matte , a he shake his head .
But the herring be now ready , and the student eat enough for six , and give Prince some cold meat which they happen to have in the boat .
Prince sit on his hind leg with delight and mew like a pussy cat .
When all be finish , the student hand Matte a shin silver coin , and allow him to fill his pipe with a special kind of tobacco .
They then thank him for his kind hospitality and go on their journey , much regret by Prince , who sit with a woeful expression and whine on the shore as long a he could see a flip of the boat 's white sail in the distance .
Maie have never utter a word , but think the more .
She have good ear , and have lay to heart the story about Ahti .
` How delightful , ' think she to herself , ` to possess a fairy cow !
How delicious every morning and evening to draw milk from it , and yet have no trouble about the feeding , and to keep a shelf near the window for dish of milk and junket !
But this will never be my luck . '
` What be you think of ? '
ask Matte .
` Nothing , ' say his wife ; but all the time she be ponder over some magic rhyme she have heard in her childhood from an old lame man , which be suppose to bring luck in fishing .
` What if I be to try ? '
think she .
Now this be Saturday , and on Saturday evening Matte never set the herring-net , for he do not fish on Sunday .
Towards evening , however , his wife say : ` Let u set the herring-net just this once . '
` No , ' say her husband , ` it be a Saturday night . '
` Last night be so stormy , and we catch so little , ' urge his wife ; ` to-night the sea be like a mirror , and with the wind in this direction the herring be draw towards land . '
` But there be streak in the north-western sky , and Prince be eat grass this evening , ' say the old man .
` Surely he have not eat my garlic , ' exclaim the old woman .
` No ; but there will be rough weather by to-morrow at sunset , ' rejoin Matte .
` Listen to me , ' say his wife , ` we will set only one net close to the shore , and then we shall be able to finish up our half-filled cask , which will spoil if it stand open so long . '
The old man allow himself to be talk over , and so they row out with the net .
When they reach the deep part of the water , she begin to hum the word of the magic rhyme , alter the word to suit the longing of her heart : Oh , Ahti , with the long , long beard , Who dwellest in the deep blue sea , Finest treasure have I hear , And glitter fish belong to thee .
The rich pearls beyond compare Are store up in thy realm below , And Ocean 's cow so sleek and fair Feed on the grass in thy green meadow .
King of the water , far and near , I ask not of thy golden store , I wish not jewel of pearl to wear , Nor silver either , ask I for , But one be odd and even be two , So give me a cow , sea-king so bold , And in return I 'll give to you A slice of the moon , and the sun 's gold .
` What 's that you 're hum ? '
ask the old man .
` Oh , only the word of an old rhyme that keep run in my head , ' answer the old woman ; and she raise her voice and go on : Oh , Ahti , with the long , long beard , Who dwellest in the deep blue sea , A thousand cow be in thy herd , I pray thee give one onto me .
` That 's a stupid sort of song , ' say Matte .
` What else should one beg of the sea-king but fish ?
But such song be not for Sunday . '
His wife pretend not to hear him , and sang and sing the same tune all the time they be on the water .
Matte hear nothing more a he sit and row the heavy boat , while thinking of his crack pipe and the fine tobacco .
Then they return to the island , and soon after go to bed .
But neither Matte nor Maie could sleep a wink ; the one thought of how he have profane Sunday , and the other of Ahti 's cow .
About midnight the fisherman sit up , and say to his wife : ` Dost thou hear anything ? '
` No , ' say she . '
I think the twirling of the weathercock on the roof bodes ill , ' say he ; ` we shall have a storm . '
` Oh , it be nothing but your fancy , ' say his wife .
Matte lay down , but soon rise again .
` The weathercock be squeak now , ' say he .
` Just fancy !
Go to sleep , ' say his wife ; and the old man try to .
For the third time he jump out of bed .
` Ho !
how the weather-cock be roar at the pitch of it voice , a if it have a fire inside it !
We be go to have a tempest , and must bring in the net . '
Both rise .
The summer night be as dark a if it have be October , the weather-cock creak , and the storm be rag in every direction .
As they go out the sea lay around them as white a now , and the spray be dash right over the fisher-hut .
In all his life Matte have never remember such a night .
To launch the boat and put to sea to rescue the net be a thing not to be think of .
The fisherman and his wife stand aghast on the doorstep , hold on fast by the doorpost , while the foam splash over their face .
` Did I not tell thee that there be no luck in Sunday fishing ? '
say Matte sulkily ; and his wife be so frightened that she never even once think of Ahti 's cow .
As there be nothing to be do , they go in .
Their eye be heavy for lack of slumber , and they sleep as soundly a if there have not be such a thing a an angry sea roar furiously around their lonely dwelling .
When they awake , the sun be high in the heaven , the tempest have case , and only the swell of the sea rise in silvery heaving against the red rock .
` What can that be ? '
say the old woman , a she peep out of the door .
` It look like a big seal , ' say Matte .
` As sure a I live , it 's a cow ! '
exclaim Maie .
And certainly it be a cow , a fine red cow , fat and flourishing , and look a if it have be feed all it day on spinach .
It wander peacefully up and down the shore , and never so much a even look at the poor little tuft of grass , a if it despise such fare .
Matte could not believe his eye .
But a cow she seem , and a cow she be find to be ; and when the old woman begin to milk her , every pitcher and pan , even to the baler , be soon fill with the most delicious milk .
The old man trouble his head in vain a to how she come there , and sallied forth to seek for his lost net .
He have not proceed far when he find it cast up on the shore , and so full of fish that not a mesh be visible .
` It be all very fine to possess a cow , ' say Matte , a he clean the fish ; ` but what be we go to fee her on ? '
` We shall find some mean , ' say his wife ; and the cow find the mean herself .
She go out and crop the seaweed which grow in great abundance near the shore , and always keep in good condition .
Every one Prince alone except , think she be a clever beast ; but Prince bark at her , for he have now get a rival .
From that day the red rock overflow with milk and junket , and every net be fill with fish .
Matte and Maie grow fat on this fine living , and daily become rich .
She churn quantity of butter , and he hire two men to help him in his fishing .
The sea lay before him like a big fish tank , out of which he haul as many a he require ; and the cow continue to fend for herself .
In autumn , when Matte and Maie go ashore , the cow go to sea , and in spring , when they return to the rock , there she stand await them .
` We shall require a good house , ' say Maie the following summer ; ` the old one be too small for ourselves and the men . '
` Yes , ' say Matte .
So he build a large cottage , with a real lock to the door , and a store-house for fish as well ; and he and his men catch such quantity of fish that they send ton of salmon , herring , and cod to Russian and Sweden . '
I be quite overwork with so many folk , ' say Maie ; ' a girl to help me would not come amiss . '
` Get one , then , ' say her husband ; and so they hire a girl .
Then Maie say : ` We have too little milk for all these folk .
Now that I have a servant , with the same amount of trouble she could look after three cow . '
` All right , then , ' say her husband , somewhat provoke , ` you can sing a song to the fairy . '
This annoyed Maie , but nevertheless she row out to sea on Sunday night and sang a before : Oh , Ahti , with the long , long beard , Who dwellest in the deep blue sea , A thousand cow be in thy herd , I pray thee give three unto me .
The following morning , instead of one , three cow stand on the island , and they all eat seaweed and fend for themselves like the first one .
` Art thou satisfy now ? '
say Matte to his wife . '
I should be quite satisfied , ' say his wife , ` if only I have two servant to help , and if I have some finer clothes .
Do n't you know that I be address a Madam ? '
` Well , well , ' say her husband .
So Maie get several servant and clothes fit for a great lady .
` Everything would now be perfect if only we have a little well dwell for summer .
You might build u a two-storey house , and fetch soil to make a garden .
Then you might make a little arbour up there to let u have a sea-view ; and we might have a fiddler to fiddle to u of an evening , and a little steamer to take u to church in stormy weather . '
` Anything more ? '
ask Matte ; but he do everything that his wife wish .
The rock Ahtola become so grand and Maie so grand that all the sea-urchins and herring be lose in wonderment .
Even Prince be feed on beefsteak and cream scone till at last he be as round a a butter jar .
` Are you satisfy now ? '
ask Matte . '
I should be quite satisfied , ' say Maie , ` if only I have thirty cow .
At least that number be require for such a household . '
` Go to the fairy , ' say Matte .
His wife set out in the new steamer and sang to the sea-king .
Next morning thirty cow stand on the shore , all finding food for themselves .
` Know ` st thou , good man , that we be far too cramp on this wretched rock , and where be I to find room for so many cow ? '
` There be nothing to be do but to pump out the sea . '
` Rubbish ! '
say his wife .
` Who can pump out the sea ? '
` Try with thy new steamer , there be a pump in it . '
Maie know well that her husband be only make fun of her , but still her mind be set upon the same subject . '
I never could pump the sea out , ' think she , ` but perhaps I might fill it up , if I be to make a big dam .
I might heap up sand and stone , and make our island a big again . '
Maie load her boat with stone and go out to sea .
The fiddler be with her , and fiddle so finely that Ahti and Wellamos and all the sea 's daughter rise to the surface of the water to listen to the music .
` What be that shin so brightly in the wave ? '
ask Maie .
` That be sea foam glinting in the sunshine , ' answer the fiddler .
` Throw out the stone , ' say Maie .
The people in the boat begin to throw out the stone , splash , splash , right and leave , into the foam .
One stone hit the nose of Wellamos 's chief lady-in-waiting , another scratch the sea queen herself on the cheek , a third plumped close to Ahti 's head and tear off half of the sea-king 's beard ; then there be a commotion in the sea , the wave bubble and bubble like boil water in a pot .
` Whence come this gust of wind ? '
say Maie ; and a she speak the sea open and swallow up the steamer .
Maie sink to the bottom like a stone , but , stretch out her arm and leg , she rise to the surface , where she find the fiddler 's fiddle , and use it a a float .
At the same moment she saw close beside her the terrible head of Ahti , and he have only half a beard ! '
` Why do you throw stone at me ? '
roar the sea-king .
` Oh , your majesty , it be a mistake !
Put some bear 's grease on your beard and that will soon make it grow again . '
` Dame , do I not give you all you ask for -- nay , even more ? '
` Truly , truly , your majesty .
Many thanks for the cow . '
` Well , where be the gold from the sun and the silver from the moon that you promise me ? '
` Ah , your majesty , they have be scatter day and night upon the sea , except when the sky be overcast , ' slyly answer Maie .
` I 'll teach you ! '
roar the sea-king ; and with that he give the fiddle such a ` puff ' that it send the old woman up like a sky-rocket on to her island .
There Prince lay , as famish a ever , gnaw the carcase of a crow .
There sat Matte in his ragged grey jacket , quite alone , on the step of the old hut , mend a net .
` Heavens , mother , ' say he , ` where be you come from at such a whirlwind pace , and what make you in such a drip condition ? '
Maie look around her amazed , and say , ` Where be our two-storey house ? '
` What house ? '
ask her husband .
` Our big house , and the flower garden , and the men and the maid , and the thirty beautiful cow , and the steamer , and everything else ? '
` You be talk nonsense , mother , ' say he .
` The student have quite turn your head , for you sing silly song last even while we be row , and then you could not sleep till early morning .
We have stormy weather during the night , and when it be past I do not wish to waken you , so row out alone to rescue the net . '
` But I 've see Ahti , ' rejoin Maie .
` You 've be lie in bed , dream foolish fancy , mother , and then in your sleep you walk into the water . '
` But there be the fiddle , ' say Maie . '
A fine fiddle !
It be only an old stick .
No , no , old woman , another time we will be more careful .
Good luck never attend fish on a Sunday . '
From Z. Topelius .
The Raspberry Worm ` Phew ! '
cry Lisa .
` Ugh ! '
cry Aina .
` What now ? '
cry the big sister . '
A worm ! '
cry Lisa .
` On the raspberry ! '
cry Aina .
` Kill it ! '
cry Otto .
` What a fuss over a poor little worm ! '
say the big sister scornfully .
` Yes , when we have clean the raspberry so carefully , ' say Lisa .
` It creep out from that very large one , ' put in Aina .
` And suppose someone have eat the raspberry , ' say Lisa .
` Then they would have eat the worm , too , ' say Aina .
` Well , what harm ? '
say Otto .
` Eat a worm ! '
cry Lisa .
` And kill him with one bite ! '
murmur Aina .
` Just think of it ! '
say Otto laughing .
` Now it be crawl on the table , ' cry Aina again .
` Blow it away ! '
say the big sister .
` Tramp on it ! '
laugh Otto .
But Lisa take a raspberry leaf , sweep the worm carefully on to the leaf and carry it out into the yard .
Then Aina notice that a sparrow sit on the fence be just ready to pounce on the poor little worm , so she take up the leaf , carry it out into the wood and hide it under a raspberry bush where the greedy sparrow could not find it .
Yes , and what more be there to tell about a raspberry worm ?
Who would give three straw for such a miserable little thing ?
Yes , but who would not like to live in such a pretty home a it live in ; in such a fresh fragrant dark-red cottage , far away in the quiet wood among flower and green leaf !
Now it be just dinner time , so they all have a dinner of raspberry and cream .
` Be careful with the sugar , Otto , ' say the big sister ; but Otto 's plate be like a snowdrift in winter , with just a little red under the snow .
Soon after dinner the big sister say : ` Now we have eat up the raspberry and we have none leave to make preserve for the winter ; it would be fine if we could get two basket full of berry , then we could clean them this evening , and to-morrow we could cook them in the big preserving pan , and then we should have raspberry jam to eat on our bread ! '
` Come , let u go to the wood and pick , ' say Lisa .
` Yes , let u , ' say Aina .
` You take the yellow basket and I will take the green one . '
` Do n't get lose , and come back safely in the evening , ' say the big sister .
` Greetings to the raspberry worm , ' say Otto , mockingly .
` Next time I meet him I shall do him the honour of eat him up . '
So Aina and Lisa go off to the wood .
Ah !
how delightful it be there , how beautiful !
It be certainly tiresome sometimes climb over the fall tree , and get catch in the branch , and wag war with the juniper bush and the midge , but what do that matter ?
The girl climb well in their short dress , and soon they be deep in the wood .
There be plenty of bilberry and elder berry , but no raspberry .
They wander on and on , and at last they come ... No , it could not be true !
... they come to a large raspberry wood .
The wood have be on fire once , and now raspberry bush have grow up , and there be raspberry bush and raspberry bush as far a the eye could see .
Every bush be weight to the ground with the large , dark red , ripe raspberry , such a wealth of berry a two little berry picker have never find before !
Lisa pick , Aina pick .
Lisa ate , Aina ate , and in a little while their basket be full .
` Now we shall go home , ' say Aina .
` No , let u gather a few more , ' say Lisa .
So they put the basket down on the ground and begin to fill their pinafore , and it be not long before their pinafore be full , too .
` Now we shall go home , ' say Lina .
` Yes , now we shall go home , ' say Aina .
Both girl take a basket in one hand and hold up her apron in the other and then turn to go home .
But that be easy say than do .
They have never be so far in the great wood before , they could not find any road nor path , and soon the girl notice that they have lose their way .
The bad of it be that the shadow of the tress be become so long in the evening sunlight , the bird be begin to fly home , and the day be close in .
At last the sun go down behind the pine top , and it be cool and dusky in the great wood .
The girl become anxious but go steadily on , expect that the wood would soon end , and that they would see the smoke from the chimney of their home .
After they have wander on for a long time it begin to grow dark .
At last they reach a great plain overgrown with bush , and when they look around them , they saw , as much a they could in the darkness , that they be among the same beautiful raspberry bush from which they have pick their basket and their apron full .
Then they be so tired that they sit down on a stone and begin to cry . '
I be so hungry , ' say Lisa .
` Yes , ' say Aina , ` if we have only two good meat sandwich now . '
As she say that , she felt something in her hand , and when she look down , she saw a large sandwich of bread and chicken , and at the same time Lisa say : ` How very queer !
I have a sandwich in my hand . '
` And I , too , ' say Aina .
` Will you dare to eat it ? '
` Of course I will , ' say Lisa .
` Ah , if we only have a good glass of milk now ! '
Just a she say that she felt a large glass of milk between her finger , and at the same time Aina cry out , ` Lisa !
Lisa !
I have a glass of milk in my hand !
Is n't it queer ? '
The girl , however , be very hungry , so they eat and drink with a good appetite .
When they have finish Aina yawn , stretch out her arm and say : ` Oh , if only we have a nice soft bed to sleep on now ! '
Scarcely have she speak before she felt a nice soft bed by her side , and there beside Lisa be one too .
This seem to the girl more and more wonderful , but tire and sleepy a they be , they think no more about it , but creep into the little bed , draw the coverlet over their head and be soon asleep .
When they awake the sun be high in the heaven , the wood be beautiful in the summer morning , and the bird be fly about in the branch and the tree top .
At first the girl be fill with wonder when they saw that they have sleep in the wood among the raspberry bush .
They look at each other , they look at their bed , which be of the fine flax cover over with leaf and moss .
At last Lisa say : ` Are you awake , Aina ? '
` Yes , ' say Aina .
` But I be still dream , ' say Lisa .
` No , ' say Aina , ` but there be certainly some good fairy living among these raspberry bush .
Ah , if we have only a hot cup of coffee now , and a nice piece of white bread to dip into it ! '
Scarcely have she finish speak when she saw beside her a little silver tray with a gilt coffee-pot , two cup of rare porcelain , a sugar basin of fine crystal , silver sugar tongs , and some good fresh white bread .
The girl pour out the beautiful coffee , put in the cream and sugar , and taste it ; never in their life have they drink such beautiful coffee .
` Now I should like to know very much who have give u all this , ' say Lisa gratefully . '
I have , my little girl , ' say a voice just then from the bush .
The child look round wonderingly , and saw a little kind-looking old man , in a white coat and a red cap , limp out from among the bush , for he be lame in his left foot ; neither Lisa nor Aina could utter a word , they be so fill with surprise .
` Do n't be afraid , little girl , ' he say smile kindly at them ; he could not laugh properly because his mouth be crook .
` Welcome to my kingdom !
Have you sleep well and eaten well and drink well ? '
he ask .
` Yes , indeed we have , ' say both the girl , ` but tell u ... ' and they want to ask who the old man be , but be afraid to . '
I will tell you who I be , ' say the old man ; ' I be the raspberry king , who reign over all this kingdom of raspberry bush , and I have live here for more than a thousand year .
But the great spirit who rule over the wood , and the sea , and the sky , do not want me to become proud of my royal power and my long life .
Therefore he decree that one day in every hundred year I should change into a little raspberry worm , and live in that weak and helpless form from sunrise to sunset .
During that time my life be dependent on the little worm 's life , so that a bird can eat me , a child can pick me with the berry and trample under foot my thousand year of life .
Now yesterday be just my transformation day , and I be take with the raspberry and would have be trample to death if you have not save my life .
Until sunset I lay helpless in the grass , and when I be sweep away from your table I twist one of my foot , and my mouth become crooked with terror ; but when evening come and I could take my own form again , I look for you to thank you and reward you .
Then I find you both here in my kingdom , and try to meet you both as well a I could without frighten you .
Now I will send a bird from my wood to show you the way home .
Good-bye , little child , thank you for your kind heart ; the raspberry king can show that he be not ungrateful . '
The child shake hand with the old man and thank him , feel very glad that they have save the little raspberry worm .
They be just go when the old man turn round , smile mischievously with his crooked mouth , and say : ` Greetings to Otto from me , and tell him when I meet him again I shall do him the honour of eat him up . '
` Oh , please do n't do that , ' cry both the girl , very frightened .
` Well , for your sake I will forgive him , ' say the old man , ' I be not revengeful .
Greetings to Otto and tell him that he may expect a gift from me , too .
Good-bye . '
The two girl , light of heart , now take their berry and run off through the wood after the bird ; and soon it begin to get lighter in the wood and they wonder how they could have lose their way yesterday , it seem so easy and plain now .
One can imagine what joy there be when the two reach home .
Everyone have be look for them , and the big sister have not be able to sleep , for she think the wolf have eat them up .
Otto meet them ; he have a basket in his hand and say : ` Look , here be something that an old man have just leave for you . '
When the girl look into the basket they saw a pair of most beautiful bracelet of precious stone , dark red , and make in the shape of a ripe raspberry and with an inscription : ` To Lisa and Aina ' ; beside them there be a diamond breast pin in the shape of a raspberry worm : on it be inscribe ` Otto , never destroy the helpless ! '
Otto felt rather ashamed : he quite understand what it mean , but he think that the old man 's revenge be a noble one .
The raspberry king have also remember the big sister , for when she go in to set the table for dinner , she find eleven big basket of most beautiful raspberry , and no one know how they have come there , but everyone guess .
And so there be such a jam-making a have never be see before , and if you like to go and help in it , you might perhaps get a little , for they must surely be make jam still to this very day .
From Z. Topelius .
The Stones of Plouhinec Perhaps some of you may have read a book call ` Kenneth ; or the Rear-Guard of the Grand Army ' of Napoleon .
If so , you will remember how the two Scotch child find in Russia be take care of by the French soldier and prevent as far a possible from suffer from the horror of the terrible Retreat .
One of the soldier , a Breton , often try to make them forget how cold and hungry they be by tell them tale of his native country , Brittany , which be full of wonderful thing .
The best and warm place round the camp fire be always give to the child , but even so the bitter frost would cause them to shiver .
It be then that the Breton would begin : ` Plouhinec be a small town near Hennebonne by the sea , ' and would continue until Kenneth or Effie would interrupt him with an eager question .
Then he forget how his mother have tell him the tale , and be oblige to begin all over again , so the story last a long while , and by the time it be end the child be ready to be roll up in what ever covering could be find , and go to sleep .
It be this story that I be go to tell to you .
Plouhinec be a small town near Hennebonne by the sea .
Around it stretch a desolate moor , where no corn can be grow , and the grass be so coarse that no beast grow fat on it .
Here and there be scattered grove of fir tree , and small pebble be so thick on the ground that you might almost take it for a beach .
On the further side , the fairy , or korigans , a the people call them , have set up long long ago two row of huge stone ; indeed , so tall and heavy be they , that it seem a if all the fairy in the world could not have place them upright .
Not far off them this great stone avenue , and on the bank of the little river Intel , there live a man name Marzinne and his sister Rozennik .
They always have enough black bread to eat , and wooden shoe or sabot to wear , and a pig to fatten , so the neighbour think them quite rich ; and what be still good , they think themselves rich also .
Rozennik be a pretty girl , who know how to make the best of everything , and she could , if she wish , have choose a husband from the young men of Plouhinec , but she care for none of them except Bernez , whom she have play with all her life , and Bernez , though he work hard , be so very very poor that Marzinne tell him roughly he must look elsewhere for a wife .
But whatever Marzinne might say Rozennik smile and nod to him a before , and would often turn her head a she pass , and sing snatch of old song over her shoulder .
Christmas Eve have come , and all the men who work under Marzinne or on the farm round about be gather in the large kitchen to eat the soup flavour with honey follow by rich pudding , to which they be always invite on this particular night .
In the middle of the table be a large wooden bowl , with wooden spoon place in a circle round it , so that each might dip in his turn .
The bench be fill , and Marzinne be about to give the signal , when the door be suddenly thrown open , and an old man come in , wish the guest a good appetite for their supper .
There be a pause , and some of the face look a little frightened ; for the new-comer be well know to them a a beggar , who be also say to be a wizard who cast spell over the cattle , and cause the corn to grow black , and old people to die , of what , nobody know .
Still , it be Christmas Eve , and besides it be as well not to offend him , so the farmer invite him in , and give him a seat at the table and a wooden spoon like the rest .
There be not much talk after the beggar 's entrance , and everyone be glad when the meal come to an end , and the beggar ask if he might sleep in the stable , a he should die of cold if he be leave outside .
Rather unwillingly Marzinne give him leave , and bid Bernez take the key and unlock the door .
There be certainly plenty of room for a dozen beggar , for the only occupant of the stable be an old donkey and a thin ox ; and a the night be bitter , the wizard lay down between them for warmth , with a sack of reed for a pillow .
He have walk far that day , and even wizard get tire sometimes , so in spite of the hard floor he be just drop off to sleep , when midnight struck from the church tower of Plouhinec .
At this sound the donkey raise her head and shake her ear , and turn towards the ox .
` Well , my dear cousin , ' say she , ` and how have you fare since last Christmas Eve , when we have a conversation together ? '
Instead of answer at once , the ox eye the beggar with a long look of disgust .
` What be the use of talk , ' he reply roughly , ` when a good-for-nothing creature like that can hear all we say ? '
` Oh , you must n't lose time in grumble , ' rejoin the donkey gaily , ` and do n't you see that the wizard be asleep ? '
` His wicked prank do not make him rich , certainly , ' say the ox , ` and he be n't even clever enough to have find out what a piece of luck might befall him a week hence . '
` What piece of luck ? '
ask the donkey .
` Why , do n't you know , ' inquire the ox , ` that once very hundred year the stone on Plouhinec heath go down to drink at the river , and that while they be away the treasure underneath them be uncover ? '
` Ah , I remember now , ' reply the donkey , ` but the stone return so quickly to their place , that you certainly would be crush to death unless you have in your hand a bunch of crowsfoot and of five-leaved trefoil . '
` Yes , but that be not enough , ' say the ox ; ` even suppose you get safely by , the treasure you have bring with you will crumble into dust if you do not give in exchange a baptised soul .
It be needful that a Christian should die before you can enjoy the wealth of Plouhinec . '
The donkey be about to ask some further question , when she suddenly find herself unable to speak : the time allow them for conversation be over .
` Ah , my dear creature , ' think the beggar , who have of course heard everything , ` you be go to make me rich than the rich men of Vannes or Lorient .
But I have no time to lose ; to-morrow I must begin to hunt for the precious plant . '
He do not dare to seek too near Plouhinec , l somebody who know the story might guess what he be do , so he go away further towards the south , where the air be soft and the plant be always green .
From the instant it be light , till the last ray have fade out of the sky , he search every inch of ground where the magic plant might grow ; he scarcely give himself a minute to eat and drink , but at length he find the crowsfoot in a little hollow !
Well , that be certainly a great deal , but after all , the crowsfoot be of no use without the trefoil , and there be so little time leave .
He have almost give up hope , when on the very last day before it be necessary that he should start of Plouhinec , he come upon a little clump of trefoil , half hide under a rock .
Hardly able to breathe from excitement , he sit down and hunt eagerly through the plant which he have tear up .
Leaf after leaf he throw aside in disgust , and he have nearly reach the end when he give a cry of joy -- the five-leaved trefoil be in his hand .
The beggar scramble to his foot , and without a pause walk quickly down the road that lead northward .
The moon be bright , and for some hour he keep steadily on , not know how many mile he have go , nor even feeling tire .
By and bye the sun rise , and the world begin to stir , and stop at a farmhouse door , he ask for a cup of milk and slice of bread and permission to rest for a while in the porch .
Then he continue his journey , and so , towards sunset on New Year 's Eve , he come back to Plouhinec .
As he be pass the long line of stone , he saw Bernez work with a chisel on the tallest of them all .
` What be you do there ? '
call the wizard , ` do you mean to hollow out for yourself a bed in that huge column ? '
` No , ' reply Bernez quietly , ` but a I happen to have no work to do to-day , I think I would just carve a cross on this stone .
The holy sign can never come amiss . ' '
I believe you think it will help you to win Rozennik , ' laugh the old man .
Bernez cease his task for a moment to look at him .
` Ah , so you know about that , ' reply he ; ` unluckily Marzinne want a brother-in-law who have more pound than I have penny . '
` And suppose I be to give you more pound than Marzinne ever dream of ? '
whisper the sorcerer glance round to make sure that no one overheard him .
` You ? '
` Yes , I. ' ` And what be I to do to gain the money , ' inquired Bernez , who know quite well that the Breton peasant give nothing for nothing .
` What I want of you only need a little courage , ' answer the old man .
` If that be all , tell me what I have get to do , and I will do it , ' cry Bernez , let fall his chisel .
` If I have to risk thirty death , I be ready . '
When the beggar know that Bernez would give him no trouble , he tell him how , during that very night , the treasure under the stone would be uncover , and how in a very few minute they could take enough to make them both rich for life .
But he keep silence a to the fate that await the man who be without the crowsfoot and the trefoil , and Bernez think that nothing but boldness and quickness be necessary .
So he say : ` Old man , I be grateful , indeed , for the chance you have give me , and there will always be a pint of my blood at your service .
Just let me finish carve this cross .
It be nearly do , and I will join you in the fir wood at whatever hour you please . '
` You must be there without fail an hour before midnight , ' answer the wizard , and go on his way .
As the hour strike from the great church at Plouhinec , Bernez enter the wood .
He find the beggar already there with a bag in each hand , and a third slung round his neck .
` You be punctual , ' say the old man , ` but we need not start just yet .
You have good sit down and think what you will do when your pocket be fill with gold and silver and jewel . '
` Oh , it wo n't take me long to plan out that , ' return Bernez with a laugh . '
I shall give Rozennik everything she can desire , dress of all sort , from cotton to silk , and good thing of all kind to eat , from white bread to orange . '
` The silver you find will pay for all that , and what about the gold ? '
` With the gold I shall make rich Rozennik 's relation and every friend of hers in the parish , ' reply he .
` So much for the gold ; and the jewel ? '
` Then , ' cry Bernez , ' I will divide the jewel amongst everybody in the world , so that they may be wealthy and happy ; and I will tell them that it be Rozennik who would have it so . '
` Hush !
it be close on midnight -- we must go , ' whisper the wizard , and together they creep to the edge of the wood .
With the first stroke of twelve a great noise arose over the silent heath , and the earth seem to rock under the foot of the two watcher .
The next moment by the light of the moon they behold the huge stone near them leave their place and go down the slope lead to the river , knock against each other in their haste .
Passing the spot where stood Bernez and the beggar , they be lose in the darkness .
It seem a if a procession of giant have go by .
` Quick , ' say the wizard , in a low voice , and he rush towards the empty hole , which even in the night shone brightly from the treasure within them .
Flinging himself on his knee , the old man begin fill the wallet he have bring , listen intently all the time for the return of the stone up the hill , while Bernez more slowly put handful of all he could see into his pocket .
The sorcerer have just close his third wallet , and be begin to wonder if he could carry away any more treasure when a low murmur a of a distant storm break upon his ear .
The stone have finish drinking , and be hasten back to their place .
On they come , bend a little forward , the tall of them all at their head , break everything that stand in their way .
At the sight Bernez stand transfixed with horror , and say , ` We be lose !
They will crush u to death . '
` Not me ! '
answer the sorcerer , hold up the crowsfoot and the five-leaved trefoil , ` for these will preserve me .
But in order to keep my rich , I be oblige to sacrifice a Christian to the stone , and an evil fate throw you in my way . '
And a he speak he stretch out the magic herb to the stone , which be advance rapidly .
As if acknowledge a power great than theirs , the monstrous thing instantly part to the right and left of the wizard , but close their rank again a they approach Bernez .
The young man do not try to escape , he know it be useless , and sink on his knee and close his eye .
But suddenly the tall stone that be lead stop straight in front of Bernez , so that no other could get past .
It be the stone on which Bernez have carve the cross , and it be now a baptize stone , and have power to save him .
So the stone remain before the young man till the rest have take their place , and then , dart like a bird to it own hole , come upon the beggar , who , think himself quite safe , be stagger along under the weight of his treasure .
Seeing the stone approaching , he hold out the magic herb which he carry , but the baptized stone be no longer subject to the spell that bind the rest , and pass straight on it way , leave the wizard crush into powder in the heather .
Then Bernez go home , and show his wealth to Marzinne , who this time do not refuse him a a brother-in-law , and he and Rozennik be marry , and live happy for ever after .
From ` Le Royer Breton , ' par Emile Souvestre .
The Castle of Kerglas Peronnik be a poor idiot who belong to nobody , and he would have die of starvation if it have not be for the kindness of the village people , who give him food whenever he choose to ask for it .
And a for a bed , when night come , and he grow sleepy , he look about for a heap of straw , and make a hole in it , creep in , like a lizard .
Idiot though he be , he be never unhappy , but always thank gratefully those who feed him , and sometimes would stop for a little and sing to them .
For he could imitate a lark so well , that no one know which be Peronnik and which be the bird .
He have be wander in a forest one day for several hour , and when even approached , he suddenly felt very hungry .
Luckily , just at that place the tree grow thinner , and he could see a small farmhouse a little way off .
Peronnik go straight towards it , and find the farmer 's wife standing at the door hold in her hand the large bowl out of which her child have eat their supper . '
I be hungry , will you give me something to eat ? '
ask the boy .
` If you can find anything here , you be welcome to it , ' answer she , and , indeed , there be not much left , a everybody 's spoon have dip in .
But Peronnik eat what be there with a hearty appetite , and think that he have never taste good food .
` It be make of the fine flour and mixed with the rich milk and stir by the best cook in all the countryside , ' and though he say it to himself , the woman hear him .
` Poor innocent , ' she murmur , ` he do not know what he be say , but I will cut him a slice of that new wheaten loaf , ' and so she do , and Peronnik eat up every crumb , and declare that nobody less than the bishop 's baker could have bake it .
This flatter the farmer 's wife so much that she give him some butter to spread on it , and Peronnik be still eat it on the doorstep when an arm knight rode up .
` Can you tell me the way to the castle of Kerglas ? '
ask he .
` To Kerglas ?
be you really go to Kerglas ? '
cry the woman , turn pale .
` Yes ; and in order to get there I have come from a country so far off that it have take me three month ' hard rid to travel as far a this . '
` And why do you want to go to Kerglas ? '
say she . '
I be seek the basin of gold and the lance of diamond which be in the castle , ' he answer .
Then Peronnik look up .
` The basin and the lance be very costly thing , ' he say suddenly .
` More costly and precious than all the crown in the world , ' reply the stranger , ` for not only will the basin furnish you with the best food that you can dream of , but if you drink of it , it will cure you of any illness however dangerous , and will even bring the dead back to life , if it touch their mouth .
As to the diamond lance , that will cut through any stone or metal . '
` And to whom do these wonder belong ? '
ask Peronnik in amazement .
` To a magician name Rogear who live in the castle , ' answer the woman .
` Every day he pass along here , mount on a black mare , with a colt thirteen month old trot behind .
But no one dare to attack him , a he always carry his lance . '
` That be true , ' say the knight , ` but there be a spell lay upon him which forbid his use it within the castle of Kerglas .
The moment he enter , the basin and lance be put away in a dark cellar which no key but one can open .
And that be the place where I wish to fight the magician . '
` You will never overcome him , Sir Knight , ' reply the woman , shake her head .
` More than a hundred gentleman have ride past this house bent on the same errand , and not one have ever come back . ' '
I know that , good woman , ' return the knight , ` but then they do not have , like me , instruction from the hermit of Blavet . '
` And what do the hermit tell you ? '
ask Peronnik .
` He tell me that I should have to pass through a wood full of all sort of enchantment and voice , which would try to frighten me and make me lose my way .
Most of those who have go before me have wander they know not where , and perish from cold , hunger , or fatigue . '
` Well , suppose you get through safely ? '
say the idiot .
` If I do , ' continue the knight , ' I shall then meet a sort of fairy arm with a needle of fire which burn to ash all it touch .
This dwarf stand guard an apple-tree , from which I be bound to pluck an apple . '
` And next ? '
inquired Peronnik .
` Next I shall find the flower that laugh , protect by a lion whose mane be form of viper .
I must pluck that flower , and go on to the lake of the dragon and fight the black man who hold in his hand the iron ball which never miss it mark and return of it own accord to it master .
After that , I enter the valley of pleasure , where some who conquer all the other obstacle have leave their bone .
If I can win through this , I shall reach a river with only one ford , where a lady in black will be seat .
She will mount my horse behind me , and tell me what I be to do next . '
He pause , and the woman shake her head .
` You will never be able to do all that , ' say she , but he bid her remembered that these be only matter for men , and gallop away down the path she point out .
The farmer 's wife sigh and , give Peronnik some more food , bid him good-night .
The idiot rise and be open the gate which lead into the forest when the farmer himself come up . '
I want a boy to tend my cattle , ' he say abruptly , ` a the one I have have run away .
Will you stay and do it ? '
and Peronnik , though he love his liberty and hat work , recollect the good food he have eat , and agree to stop .
At sunrise he collect his herd carefully and lead them to the rich pasture which lay along the border of the forest , cut himself a hazel wand with which to keep them in order .
His task be not quite so easy a it look , for the cow have a way of stray into the wood , and by the time he have bring one back another be off .
He have go some distance into the tree , after a naughty black cow which give him more trouble than all the rest , when he hear the noise of horse 's foot , and peep through the leaf he behold the giant Rogear seat on his mare , with the colt trot behind .
Round the giant 's neck hang the golden bowl suspend from a chain , and in his hand he grasp the diamond lance , which gleam like fire .
But as soon a he be out of sight the idiot sought in vain for trace of the path he have take .
This happen not only once but many time , till Peronnik grow so used to him that he never trouble to hide .
But on each occasion he saw him the desire to possess the bowl and the lance become strong .
One even the boy be sit alone on the edge of the forest , when a man with a white beard stop beside him .
` Do you want to know the way to Kerglas ? '
ask the idiot , and the man answer ' I know it well . '
` You have be there without be kill by the magician ? '
cry Peronnik .
` Oh !
he have nothing to fear from me , ' reply the white-bearded man , ' I be Rogear 's elder brother , the wizard Bryak .
When I wish to visit him I always pass this way , and a even I can not go through the enchanted wood without lose myself , I call the colt to guide me . '
Stooping down a he speak he trace three circle on the ground and murmur some word very low , which Peronnik could not hear .
Then he add aloud : Colt , free to run and free to eat .
Colt , gallop fast until we meet , and instantly the colt appear , frisk and jump to the wizard , who throw a halter over his neck and leapt on his back .
Peronnik keep silence at the farm about this adventure , but he understand very well that if he be ever to get to Kerglas he must first catch the colt which know the way .
Unhappily he have not hear the magic word utter by the wizard , and he could not manage to draw the three circle , so if he be to summon the colt at all he must invent some other mean of do it .
All day long , while he be herd the cow , he think and think how he be to call the colt , for he felt sure that once on it back he could overcome the other danger .
Meantime he must be ready in case a chance should come , and he make his preparation at night , when everyone be asleep .
Remembering what he have see the wizard do , he patch up an old halter that be hang in a corner of the stable , twist a rope of hemp to catch the colt 's foot , and a net such a be use for snare bird .
Next he sew roughly together some bit of cloth to serve a a pocket , and this he fill with glue and lark 's feather , a string of bead , a whistle of elder wood , and a slice of bread rub over with bacon fat .
Then he go out to the path down which Rogear , his mare , and the colt always ride , and crumble the bread on one side of it .
Punctual to their hour all three appear , eagerly watch by Peronnik , who lay hid in the bush close by .
Suppose it be useless ; suppose the mare , and not the colt , eat the crumb ?
Suppose -- but no !
the mare and her rider go safely by , vanish round a corner , while the colt , trot along with it head on the ground , smelt the bread , and begin greedily to lick up the piece .
Oh , how good it be !
Why have no one ever give it that before , and so absorbed be the little beast , sniff about after a few more crumb , that it never hear Peronnik creep up till it felt the halter on it neck and the rope round it foot , and -- in another moment -- some one on it back .
Going as fast a the hobble would allow , the colt turn into one of the wild part of the forest , while it rider sit tremble at the strange sight he saw .
Sometimes the earth seem to open in front of them and he be look into a bottomless pit ; sometimes the tree burst into flame and he find himself in the midst of a fire ; often in the act of cross a stream the water rise and threaten to sweep him away ; and again , at the foot of a mountain , great rock would roll towards him , a if they would crush him and his colt beneath their weight .
To his die day Peronnik never know whether these thing be real or if he only imagine them , but he pull down his knitted cap so a to cover his eye , and trust the colt to carry him down the right road .
At last the forest be leave behind , and they come out on a wide plain where the air blow fresh and strong .
The idiot venture to peep out , and find to his relief that the enchantment seem to have end , though a thrill of horror shoot through him a he notice the skeleton of men scatter over the plain , beside the skeleton of their horse .
And what be those grey form trot away in the distance ?
Were they -- could they be -- wolf ?
But vast through the plain seem , it do not take long to cross , and very soon the colt enter a sort of shady park in which be stand a single apple-tree , it branch bow down to the ground with the weight of it fruit .
In front be the korigan -- the little fairy man -- hold in his hand the fiery sword , which reduce to ash everything it touch .
At the sight of Peronnik he utter a piercing scream , and raise his sword , but without appear surprise the youth only lift his cap , though he take care to remain at a little distance .
` Do not be alarm , my prince , ' say Peronnik , ' I be just on my way to Kerglas , a the noble Rogear have beg me to come to him on business . '
` Begged you to come ! '
repeat the dwarf , ` and who , then , be you ? ' '
I be the new servant he have engage , a you know very well , ' answer Peronnik . '
I do not know at all , ' rejoin the korigan sulkily , ` and you may be a robber for all I can tell . ' '
I be so sorry , ' reply Peronnik , ` but I may be wrong in call myself a servant , for I be only a bird-catcher .
But do not delay me , I pray , for his highness the magician expect me , and , a you see , have lend me his colt so that I may reach the castle all the quicker . '
At these word the korigan cast his eye for the first time on the colt , which he know to be the one belonging to the magician , and begin to think that the young man be speak the truth .
After examine the horse , he study the rider , who have such an innocent , and indeed vacant , air that he appear incapable of invent a story .
Still , the dwarf do not feel quite sure that all be right , and ask what the magician want with a bird-catcher .
` From what he say , he want one very badly , ' reply Peronnik , ` a he declare that all his grain and all the fruit in his garden at Kerglas be eat up by the bird . '
` And how be you go to stop that , my fine fellow ? '
inquire the korigan ; and Peronnik show him the snare he have prepare , and remark that no bird could possible escape from it .
` That be just what I should like to be sure of , ' answer the korigan .
` My apple be completely eat up by blackbird and thrush .
Lay your snare , and if you can manage to catch them , I will let you pass . '
` That be a fair bargain , ' and a he speak Peronnik jump down and fasten his colt to a tree ; then , stop , he fix one end of the net to the trunk of the apple tree , and call to the korigan to hold the other while he take out the peg .
The dwarf do a he be bid , when suddenly Peronnik throw the noose over his neck and draw it close , and the korigan be hold as fast a any of the bird he wish to snare .
Shrieking with rage , he try to undo the cord , but he only pull the knot tighter .
He have put down the sword on the grass , and Peronnik have be careful to fix the net on the other side of the tree , so that it be now easy for him to pluck an apple and to mount his horse , without be hinder by the dwarf , whom he leave to his fate .
When they have leave the plain behind them , Peronnik and his steed find themselves in a narrow valley in which be a grove of tree , full of all sort of sweet-smelling thing -- rose of every colour , yellow broom , pink honeysuckle -- while above them all tower a wonderful scarlet pansy whose face bore a strange expression .
This be the flower that laugh , and no one who look at it could help laugh too .
Peronnik 's heart beat high at the thought that he have reach safely the second trial , and he gaze quite calmly at the lion with the mane of viper twist and twirl , who walk up and down in front of the grove .
The young man pull up and remove his cap , for , idiot though he be , he know that when you have to do with people great than yourself , a cap be more useful in the hand than on the head .
Then , after wish all kind of good fortune to the lion and his family , he inquire if he be on the right road to Kerglas .
` And what be your business at Kerglas ? '
ask the lion with a growl , and show his teeth .
` With all respect , ' answer Peronnik , pretend to be very frightened , ' I be the servant of a lady who be a friend of the noble Rogear and send him some lark for a pasty . '
` Larks ? '
cry the lion , lick his long whisker .
` Why , it must be a century since I have have any !
Have you a large quantity with you ? '
` As many a this bag will hold , ' reply Peronnik , opening , a he speak , the bag which he have fill with feather and glue ; and to prove what he say , he turn his back on the lion and begin to imitate the song of a lark .
` Come , ' exclaim the lion , whose mouth water , ` show me the bird !
I should like to see if they be fat enough for my master . ' '
I would do it with pleasure , ' answer the idiot , ` but if I once open the bag they will all fly away . '
` Well , open it wide enough for me to look in , ' say the lion , draw a little nearer .
Now this be just what Peronnik have be hop for , so he hold the bag while the lion open it carefully and put his head right inside , so that he might get a good mouthful of lark .
But the mass of feather and glue stick to him , and before he could pull his head out again Peronnik have draw tight the cord , and tie it in a knot that no man could untie .
Then , quickly gather the flower that laugh , he ride off as fast a the colt could take him .
The path soon lead to the lake of the dragon , which he have to swim across .
The colt , who be accustom to it , plunge into the water without hesitation ; but as soon a the dragon catch sight of Peronnik they approach from all part of the lake in order to devour him .
This time Peronnik do not trouble to take off his cap , but he throw the bead he carry with him into the water , a you throw black corn to a duck , and with each bead that he swallow a dragon turn on his back and die , so that the idiot reach the other side without further trouble .
The valley guard by the black man now lay before him , and from afar Peronnik behold him , chain by one foot to a rock at the entrance , and hold the iron ball which never miss it mark and always return to it master 's hand .
In his head the black man have six eye that be never all shut at once , but keep watch one after the other .
At this moment they be all open , and Peronnik know well that if the black man catch a glimpse of him he would cast his ball .
So , hide the colt behind a thicket of bush , he crawl along a ditch and crouch close to the very rock to which the black man be chain .
The day be hot , and after a while the man begin to grow sleepy .
Two of his eye close , and Peronnik sing gently .
In a moment a third eye shut , and Peronnik sing on .
The lid of a fourth eye drop heavily , and then those of the fifth and the sixth .
The black man be asleep altogether .
Then , on tiptoe , the idiot creep back to the colt which he lead over soft moss past the black man into the vale of pleasure , a delicious garden full of fruit that dangle before your mouth , fountains run with wine , and flower chant in soft little voice .
Further on , table be spread with food , and girl dance on the grass call to him to join them .
Peronnik heard , and , scarcely know what he do draw the colt into a slow pace .
He sniff greedily the smell of the dish , and raise his head the good to see the dancer .
Another instant and he would have stop altogether and be lose , like others before him , when suddenly there come to him like a vision the golden bowl and the diamond lance .
Drawing his whistle from his pocket , he blow it loudly , so a to drown the sweet sound about him , and eat what be leave of his bread and bacon to still the craving of the magic fruit .
His eye he fix steadily on the ear of the colt , that he might not see the dancer .
In this way he be able to reach the end of the garden , and at length perceive the castle of Kerglas , with the river between them which have only one ford .
Would the lady be there , a the old man have tell him ?
Yes , surely that be she , sit on a rock , in a black satin dress , and her face the colour of a Moorish woman 's .
The idiot ride up , and take off his cap more politely than ever , and ask if she do not wish to cross the river . '
I be wait for you to help me do so , ' answer she .
` Come near , that I may get up behind you . '
Peronnik do a she bid him , and by the help of his arm she jump nimbly on to the back of the colt .
` Do you know how to kill the magician ? '
ask the lady , a they be cross the ford . '
I think that , be a magician , he be immortal , and that no one could kill him , ' reply Peronnik .
` Persuade him to taste that apple , and he will die , and if that be not enough I will touch him with my finger , for I be the plague , ' answer she .
` But if I kill him , how be I to get the golden bowl and the diamond lance that be hide in the cellar without a key ? '
rejoin Peronnik .
` The flower that laugh open all door and lighten all darkness , ' say the lady ; and a she speak , they reach the further bank , and advance towards the castle .
In front of the entrance be a sort of tent support on pole , and under it the giant be sit , bask in the sun .
As soon a he notice the colt bearing Peronnik and the lady , he lift his head , and cry in a voice of thunder : ` Why , it be surely the idiot , rid my colt thirteen month old ! '
` Greatest of magician , you be right , ' answer Peronnik .
` And how do you manage to catch him ? '
ask the giant .
` By repeat what I learn from your brother Bryak on the edge of the forest , ' reply the idiot . '
I just say -- Colt , free to run and free to eat , Colt , gallop fast until we meet , and it come directly . '
` You know my brother , then ? '
inquire the giant .
` Tell me why he send you here . '
` To bring you two gift which he have just receive from the country of the Moors , ' answer Peronnik : ` the apple of delight and the woman of submission .
If you eat the apple you will not desire anything else , and if you take the woman a your servant you will never wish for another . '
` Well , give me the apple , and bid the woman get down , ' answer Rogear .
The idiot obey , but at the first taste of the apple the giant stagger , and a the long yellow finger of the woman touch him he fell dead .
Leaving the magician where he lay , Peronnik enter the palace , bear with him the flower that laugh .
Fifty door fly open before him , and at length he reach a long flight of step which seem to lead into the bowel of the earth .
Down these he go till he come to a silver door without a bar or key .
Then he hold up high the flower that laugh , and the door slowly swing back , display a deep cavern , which be as bright a the day from the shining of the golden bowl and the diamond lance .
The idiot hastily run forward and hang the bowl round his neck from the chain which be attach to it , and take the lance in his hand .
As he do so , the ground shake beneath him , and with an awful rumble the palace disappear , and Peronnik find himself stand close to the forest where he lead the cattle to graze .
Though darkness be come on , Peronnik never think of enter the farm , but follow the road which lead to the court of the duke of Brittany .
As he pass through the town of Vannes he stop at a tailor 's shop , and buy a beautiful costume of brown velvet and a white horse , which he pay for with a handful of gold that he have pick up in the corridor of the castle of Kerglas .
Thus he make his way to the city of Nantes , which at that moment be besiege by the French .
A little way off , Peronnik stop and look about him .
For mile round the country be bare , for the enemy have cut down every tree and burnt every blade of corn ; and , idiot though he might be , Peronnik be able to grasp that inside the gate men be die of famine .
He be still gaze with horror , when a trumpeter appear on the wall , and , after blow a loud blast , announce that the duke would adopt a his heir the man who could drive the French out of the country .
On the four side of the city the trumpeter blow his blast , and the last time Peronnik , who have ride up as close a he might , answer him .
` You need blow no more , ' say he , ` for I myself will free the town from her enemy . '
And turn to a soldier who come run up , wave his sword , he touch him with the magic lance , and he fell dead on the spot .
The men who be follow stood still , amaze .
Their comrade 's armour have not be pierce , of that they be sure , yet he be dead , a if he have be strike to the heart .
But before they have time to recover from their astonishment , Peronnik cry out : ` You see how my foe will fare ; now behold what I can do for my friend , ' and , stoop down , he lay the golden bowl against the mouth of the soldier , who sit up as well a ever .
Then , jump his horse across the trench , he enter the gate of the city , which have open wide enough to receive him .
The news of these marvel quickly spread through the town , and put fresh spirit into the garrison , so that they declare themselves able to fight under the command of the young stranger .
And a the bowl restore all the dead Bretons to life , Peronnik soon have an army large enough to drive away the French , and fulfil his promise of deliver his country .
As to the bowl and the lance , no one know what become of them , but some say that Bryak the sorcerer manage to steal them again , and that any one who wish to possess them must seek them a Peronnik do .
From ` Le Foyer Breton , ' par Emile Souvestre .
The Battle of the Birds There be to be a great battle between all the creature of the earth and the bird of the air .
News of it go abroad , and the son of the king of Tethertown say that when the battle be fight he would be there to see it , and would bring back word who be to be king .
But in spite of that , he be almost too late , and every fight have be fight save the last , which be between a snake and a great black raven .
Both struck hard , but in the end the snake prove the strong , and would have twist himself round the neck of the raven till he die have not the king 's son draw his sword , and cut off the head of the snake at a single blow .
And when the raven beheld that his enemy be dead , he be grateful , and say : ` For thy kindness to me this day , I will show thee a sight .
So come up now on the root of my two wing . '
The king 's son do a he be bid , and before the raven stop fly , they have pass over seven ben and seven glen and seven mountain moor .
` Do you see that house yonder ? '
say the raven at last .
` Go straight for it , for a sister of mine dwells there , and she will make you right welcome .
And if she ask , `` Wert thou at the battle of the bird ? ''
answer that thou wert , and if she ask , `` Didst thou see my likeness ? ''
answer that thou sawest it , but be sure thou meet me in the morning at this place . '
The king 's son follow what the raven tell him and that night he have meat of each meat , and drink of each drink , warm water for his foot , and a soft bed to lie in .
Thus it happen the next day , and the next , but on the fourth meeting , instead of meet the raven , in his place the king 's son find wait for him the handsome youth that ever be see , with a bundle in his hand .
` Is there a raven hereabouts ? '
ask the king 's son , and the youth answer : ' I be that raven , and I be deliver by thee from the spell that bind me , and in reward thou wilt get this bundle .
Go back by the road thou camest , and lie a before , a night in each house , but be careful not to unloose the bundle till thou art in the place wherein thou wouldst most wish to dwell . '
Then the king 's son set out , and thus it happen a it have happen before , till he enter a thick wood near his father 's house .
He have walk a long way and suddenly the bundle seem to grow heavy ; first he put it down under a tree , and next he think he would look at it .
The string be easy to untie , and the king 's son soon unfasten the bundle .
What be it he saw there ?
Why , a great castle with an orchard all about it , and in the orchard fruit and flower and bird of very kind .
It be all ready for him to dwell in , but instead of be in the midst of the forest , he do wish he have leave the bundle unloose till he have reach the green valley close to his father 's palace .
Well , it be no use wishing , and with a sigh he glance up , and behold a huge giant come towards him .
` Bad be the place where thou hast build thy house , king 's son , ' say the giant .
` True ; it be not here that I wish to be , ' answer the king 's son .
` What reward wilt thou give me if I put it back in the bundle ? '
ask the giant .
` What reward dost thou ask ? '
answer the king 's son .
` The first boy thou hast when he be seven year old , ' say the giant .
` If I have a boy thou shalt get him , ' answer the king 's son , and a he speak the castle and the orchard be tie up in the bundle again .
` Now take thy road , and I will take mine , ' say the giant .
` And if thou forgettest thy promise , I will remember it . '
Light of heart the king 's son go on his road , till he come to the green valley near his father 's palace .
Slowly he unloose the bundle , fear l he should find nothing but a heap of stone or rag .
But no !
all be a it have be before , and a he open the castle door there stand within the most beautiful maiden that ever be see .
` Enter , king 's son , ' say she , ` all be ready , and we will be marry at once , ' and so they be .
The maiden prove a good wife , and the king 's son , now himself a king , be so happy that he forget all about the giant .
Seven year and a day have go by , when one morning , while stand on the rampart , he behold the giant striding towards the castle .
Then he remember his promise , and remember , too , that he have tell the queen nothing about it .
Now he must tell her , and perhaps she might help him in his trouble .
The queen listen in silence to his tale , and after he have finish , she only say : ` Leave thou the matter between me and the giant , ' and a she speak , the giant enter the hall and stand before them .
` Bring out your son , ' cry he to the king , ` a you promise me seven year and a day since . '
The king glance at his wife , who nod , so he answer : ` Let his mother first put him in order , ' and the queen leave the hall , and take the cook 's son and dress him in the prince 's clothes , and lead him up to the giant , who hold his hand , and together they go out along the road .
They have not walk far when the giant stop and stretch out a stick to the boy .
` If your father have that stick , what would he do with it ? '
ask he .
` If my father have that stick , he would beat the dog and cat that steal the king 's meat , ' reply the boy .
` Thou art the cook 's son ! '
cry the giant .
` Go home to thy mother ' ; and turn his back he stride straight to the castle .
` If you seek to trick me this time , the high stone will soon be the low , ' say he , and the king and queen tremble , but they could not bear to give up their boy .
` The butler 's son be the same age a ours , ' whisper the queen ; ` he will not know the difference , ' and she take the child and dress him in the prince 's clothes , and the giant let him away along the road .
Before they have go far he stop , and hold out a stick .
` If thy father have that rod , what would he do with it ? '
ask the giant .
` He would beat the dog and cat that break the king 's glass , ' answer the boy .
` Thou art the son of the butler ! '
cry the giant .
` Go home to thy mother ' ; and turn round he stride back angrily to the castle .
` Bring out thy son at once , ' roar he , ` or the stone that be high will be low , ' and this time the real prince be bring .
But though his parent weep bitterly and fancy the child be suffer all kind of dreadful thing , the giant treat him like his own son , though he never allow him to see his daughter .
The boy grow to be a big boy , and one day the giant tell him that he would have to amuse himself alone for many hour , a he have a journey to make .
So the boy wander to the top of the castle , where he have never be before .
There he pause , for the sound of music break upon his ear , and open a door near him , he behold a girl sit by the window , hold a harp .
` Haste and begone , I see the giant close at hand , ' she whisper hurriedly , ` but when he be asleep , return hither , for I would speak with thee . '
And the prince do a he be bid , and when midnight strike he creep back to the top of the castle .
` To-morrow , ' say the girl , who be the giant 's daughter , ` to-morrow thou wilt get the choice of my two sister to marry , but thou must answer that thou wilt not take either , but only me .
This will anger him greatly , for he wish to betroth me to the son of the king of the Green City , whom I like not at all . '
Then they part , and on the morrow , a the girl have say , the giant call his three daughter to him , and likewise the young prince to whom he speak .
` Now , O son of the king of Tethertown , the time have come for u to part .
Choose one of my two elder daughter to wife , and thou shalt take her to your father 's house the day after the wedding . '
` Give me the young instead , ' reply the youth , and the giant 's face darken a he hear him .
` Three thing must thou do first , ' say he .
` Say on , I will do them , ' reply the prince , and the giant leave the house , and bid him follow to the byre , where the cow be keep .
` For a hundred year no man have sweep this byre , ' say the giant , ` but if by nightfall , when I reach home , thou have not clean it so that a golden apple can roll through it from end to end , thy blood shall pay for it . '
All day long the youth toil , but he might as well have try to empty the ocean .
At length , when he be so tired he could hardly move , the giant 's young daughter stand in the doorway .
` Lay down thy weariness , ' say she , and the king 's son , think he could only die once , sink on the floor at her bidding , and fell sound asleep .
When he wake the girl have disappear , and the byre be so clean that a golden apple could roll from end to end of it .
He jump up in surprise , and at that moment in come the giant .
` Hast thou clean the byre , king 's son ? '
ask he . '
I have clean it , ' answer he .
` Well , since thou wert so active to-day , to-morrow thou wilt thatch this byre with a feather from every different bird , or else thy blood shall pay for it , ' and he go out .
Before the sun be up , the youth take his bow and his quiver and set off to kill the bird .
Off to the moor he go , but never a bird be to be see that day .
At last he get so tired with run to and fro that he give up heart .
` There be but one death I can die , ' think he .
Then at midday come the giant 's daughter .
` Thou art tire , king 's son ? '
ask she . '
I be , ' answer he ; ` all these hour have I wander , and there fell but these two blackbird , both of one colour . '
` Lay down thy weariness on the grass , ' say she , and he do a she bid him , and fell fast asleep .
When he wake the girl have disappear , and he get up , and return to the byre .
As he draw near , he rub his eye hard , think he be dream , for there it be , beautifully thatch , just a the giant have wish .
At the door of the house he meet the giant .
` Hast thou thatch the byre , king 's son ? ' '
I have thatch it . '
` Well , since thou hast be so active to-day , I have something else for thee !
Beside the loch thou seest over yonder there grow a fir tree .
On the top of the fir tree be a magpie 's nest , and in the nest be five egg .
Thou wilt bring me those egg for breakfast , and if one be crack or break , thy blood shall pay for it . '
Before it be light next day , the king 's son jump out of bed and run down to the loch .
The tree be not hard to find , for the rise sun shone red on the trunk , which be five hundred foot from the ground to it first branch .
Time after time he walk round it , try to find some knot , however small , where he could put his foot , but the bark be quite smooth , and he soon saw that if he be to reach the top at all , it must be by climb up with his knee like a sailor .
But then he be a king 's son and not a sailor , which make all the difference .
However , it be no use stand there star at the fir , at least he must try to do his best , and try he do till his hand and knee be sore , for as soon a he have struggle up a few foot , he slide back again .
Once he climb a little high than before , and hope rise in his heart , then down he come with such force that his hand and knee smart bad than ever .
` This be no time for stop , ' say the voice of the giant 's daughter , a he lean against the trunk to recover his breath .
` Alas !
I be no sooner up than down , ' answer he .
` Try once more , ' say she , and she lay a finger against the tree and bid him put his foot on it .
Then she place another finger a little high up , and so on till he reach the top , where the magpie have build her nest .
` Make haste now with the nest , ' she cry , ` for my father 's breath be burn my back , ' and down he scramble as fast a he could , but the girl 's little finger have catch in a branch at the top , and she be oblige to leave it there .
But she be too busy to pay heed to this , for the sun be get high over the hill .
` Listen to me , ' she say .
` This night my two sister and I will be dress in the same garment , and you will not know me .
But when my father say ` Go to thy wife , king 's son , ' come to the one whose right hand have no little finger . '
So he go and give the egg to the giant , who nod his head .
` Make ready for thy marriage , ' cry he , ` for the wedding shall take place this very night , and I will summon thy bride to greet thee . '
Then his three daughter be send for , and they all enter dress in green silk of the same fashion , and with golden circlet round their head .
The king 's son look from one to another .
Which be the young ?
Suddenly his eye fell on the hand of the middle one , and there be no little finger .
` Thou hast aim well this time too , ' say the giant , a the king 's son lay his hand on her shoulder , ` but perhaps we may meet some other way ' ; and though he pretend to laugh , the bride saw a gleam in his eye which warn her of danger .
The wedding take place that very night , and the hall be fill with giant and gentleman , and they dance till the house shook from top to bottom .
At last everyone grow tire , and the guest go away , and the king 's son and his bride be leave alone .
` If we stay here till dawn my father will kill thee , ' she whisper , ` but thou art my husband and I will save thee , a I do before , ' and she cut an apple into nine piece , and put two piece at the head of the bed , and two piece at the foot , and two piece at the door of the kitchen , and two at the big door , and one outside the house .
And when this be do , and she hear the giant snoring , she and the king 's son creep out softly and stole across to the stable , where she lead out the blue-grey mare and jump on it back , and her husband mount behind her .
Not long after , the giant awoke .
` Are you asleep ? '
ask he .
` Not yet , ' answer the apple at the head of the bed , and the giant turn over , and soon be snore as loudly a before .
By and bye he call again .
` Are you asleep ? '
` Not yet , ' say the apple at the foot of the bed , and the giant be satisfy .
After a while , he call a third time , ` Are you asleep ? '
` Not yet , ' reply the apple in the kitchen , but when in a few minute , he put the question for the fourth time and receive an answer from the apple outside the house door , he guess what have happen , and run to the room to look for himself .
The bed be cold and empty !
` My father 's breath be burn my back , ' cry the girl , ` put thy hand into the ear of the mare , and whatever thou findest there , throw it behind thee . '
And in the mare 's ear there be a twig of sloe tree , and a he throw it behind him there spring up twenty mile of thornwood so thick that scarce a weasel could go through it .
And the giant , who be stride headlong forward , get catch in it , and it pull his hair and beard .
` This be one of my daughter 's trick , ' he say to himself , ` but if I have my big axe and my wood-knife , I would not be long make a way through this , ' and off he go home and bring back the axe and the wood-knife .
It take him but a short time to cut a road through the blackthorn , and then he lay the axe and the knife under a tree . '
I will leave them there till I return , ' he murmur to himself , but a hoodie crow , which be sit on a branch above , hear him .
` If thou leavest them , ' say the hoodie , ` we will steal them . '
` You will , ' answer the giant , ` and I must take them home . '
So he take them home , and start afresh on his journey .
` My father 's breath be burn my back , ' cry the girl at midday .
` Put thy finger in the mare 's ear and throw behind thee whatever thou findest in it , ' and the king 's son find a splinter of grey stone , and throw it behind him , and in a twinkling twenty mile of solid rock lay between them and the giant .
` My daughter 's trick be the hard thing that ever meet me , ' say the giant , ` but if I have my lever and my crowbar , I would not be long in make my way through this rock also , ' but a he have get them , he have to go home and fetch them .
Then it take him but a short time to hew his way through the rock . '
I will leave the tool here , ' he murmur aloud when he have finish .
` If thou leavest them , we will steal them , ' say a hoodie who be perch on a stone above him , and the giant answer : ` Steal them if thou wilt ; there be no time to go back . '
` My father 's breath be burn my back , ' cry the girl ; ` look in the mare 's ear , king 's son , or we be lose , ' and he look , and find a tiny bladder full of water , which he throw behind him , and it become a great lock .
And the giant , who be stride on so fast , could not stop himself , and he walk right into the middle and be drown .
The blue-grey mare gallop on like the wind , and the next day the king 's son come in sight of his father 's house .
` Get down and go in , ' say the bride , ` and tell them that thou hast marry me .
But take heed that neither man nor beast kiss thee , for then thou wilt cease to remember me at all . ' '
I will do thy bidding , ' answer he , and leave her at the gate .
All who meet him bid him welcome , and he charge his father and mother not to kiss him , but a he greet them his old greyhound leapt on his neck , and kiss him on the mouth .
And after that he do not remember the giant 's daughter .
All that day she sit on a well which be near the gate , wait , wait , but the king 's son never come .
In the darkness she climb up into an oak tree that shadow the well , and there she lay all night , wait , wait .
On the morrow , at midday , the wife of a shoemaker who dwell near the well go to draw water for her husband to drink , and she saw the shadow of the girl in the tree , and think it be her own shadow .
` How handsome I be , to be sure , ' say she , gaze into the well , and a she stop to behold herself good , the jug struck against the stone and break in piece , and she be force to return to her husband without the water , and this anger him .
` Thou hast turn crazy , ' say he in wrath .
` Go thou , my daughter , and fetch me a drink , ' and the girl go , and the same thing befell her a have befall her mother .
` Where be the water ? '
ask the shoemaker , when she come back , and a she hold nothing save the handle of the jug he go to the well himself .
He too saw the reflection of the woman in the tree , but look up to discover whence it come , and there above him sit the most beautiful woman in the world .
` Come down , ' he say , ` for a while thou canst stay in my house , ' and glad enough the girl be to come .
Now the king of the country be about to marry , and the young men about the court throng the shoemaker 's shop to buy fine shoe to wear at the wedding .
` Thou hast a pretty daughter , ' say they when they behold the girl sit at work .
` Pretty she be , ' answer the shoemaker , ` but no daughter of mine . ' '
I would give a hundred pound to marry her , ' say one .
` And I , ' ` And I , ' cry the others .
` That be no business of mine , ' answer the shoemaker , and the young men bid him ask her if she would choose one of them for a husband , and to tell them on the morrow .
Then the shoemaker ask her , and the girl say that she would marry the one who would bring his purse with him .
So the shoemaker hurry to the youth who have first speak , and he come back , and after give the shoemaker a hundred pound for his news , he seek the girl , who be wait for him .
` Is it thou ? '
inquire she . '
I be thirsty , give me a drink from the well that be yonder . '
And he pour out the water , but he could not move from the place where he be ; and there he stay till many hour have pass by .
` Take away that foolish boy , ' cry the girl to the shoemaker at last , ' I be tire of him , ' and then suddenly he be able to walk , and betook himself to his home , but he do not tell the others what have happen to him .
Next day there arrive one of the other young men , and in the evening , when the shoemaker have go out and they be alone , she say to him , ` See if the latch be on the door . '
The young man hasten to do her bidding , but as soon a he touch the latch , his finger stick to it , and there he have to stay for many hour , till the shoemaker come back , and the girl let him go .
Hanging his head , he go home , but he tell no one what have befall him .
Then be the turn of the third man , and his foot remain fasten to the floor , till the girl unloose it .
And thankfully , he run off , and be not see look behind him .
` Take the purse of gold , ' say the girl to the shoemaker , ' I have no need of it , and it will well thee . '
And the shoemaker take it and tell the girl he must carry the shoe for the wed up to the castle . '
I would fain get a sight of the king 's son before he marry , ' sigh she .
` Come with me , then , ' answer he ; ` the servant be all my friend , and they will let you stand in the passage down which the king 's son will pass , and all the company too . '
Up they go to the castle , and when the young men saw the girl stand there , they lead her into the hall where the banquet be lay out and pour her out some wine .
She be just raise the glass to drink when a flame go up out of it , and out of the flame spring two pigeon , one of gold and one of silver .
They fly round and round the head of the girl , when three grain of barley fell on the floor , and the silver pigeon dive down , and swallow them .
` If thou hadst remember how I clean the byre , thou wouldst have give me my share , ' coo the golden pigeon , and a he speak three more grain fell , and the silver pigeon eat them a before .
` If thou hadst remember how I thatch the byre , thou wouldst have give me my share , ' coo the golden pigeon again ; and a he speak three more grain fell , and for the third time they be eat by the silver pigeon .
` If thou hadst remember how I get the magpie 's nest , thou wouldst have give me my share , ' coo the golden pigeon .
Then the king 's son understand that they have come to remind him of what he have forget , and his lost memory come back , and he know his wife , and kiss her .
But a the preparation have be make , it seem a pity to waste them , so they be marry a second time , and sit down to the wedding feast .
From ` Tales of the West Highlands . '
The Lady of the Fountain .
In the centre of the great hall in the castle of Caerleon upon Usk , king Arthur sit on a seat of green rush , over which be thrown a covering of flame-coloured silk , and a cushion of red satin lay under his elbow .
With him be his knight Owen and Kynon and Kai , while at the far end , close to the window , be Guenevere the queen and her maiden embroider white garment with strange device of gold . '
I be weary , ' say Arthur , ` and till my food be prepared I would fain sleep .
You yourselves can tell each other tale , and Kai will fetch you from the kitchen a flagon of mean and some meat . '
And when they have eat and drunk , Kynon , the old among them , begin his story . '
I be the only son of my father and mother , and much store they set by me , but I be not content to stay with them at home , for I think no deed in all the world be too mighty for me .
None could hold me back , and after I have win many adventure in my own land , I bid farewell to my parent and set out to see the world .
Over mountain , through desert , across river I go , till I reach a fair valley full of tree , with a path running by the side of a stream .
I walk along that path all the day , and in the evening I come to a castle in front of which stand two youth clothe in yellow , each grasp an ivory bow , with arrow make of the bone of the whale , and wing with peacock 's feather .
By their side hang golden dagger with hilt of the bone of the whale .
` Near these young men be a man richly dress , who turn and go with me towards the castle , where all the dweller be gather in the hall .
In one window I behold four and twenty damsel , and the least fair of them be fair than Guenevere at her fair .
Some take my horse , and others unbuckle my armour , and wash it , with my sword and spear , till it all shine like silver .
Then I wash myself and put on a vest and doublet which they bring me , and I and the man that enter with me sit down before a table of silver , and a goodlier feast I never have .
` All this time neither the man nor the damsel have speak one word , but when our dinner be half over , and my hunger be still , the man begin to ask who I be .
Then I tell him my name and my father 's name , and why I come there , for indeed I have grow weary of gain the mastery over all men at home , and seek if perchance there be one who could gain the mastery over me .
And at this the man smile and answer : ' `` If I do not fear to distress thee too much , I would show thee what thou seekest . ''
His word make me sorrowful and fearful of myself , which the man perceive , and add , `` If thou mean truly what thou sayest , and desirest earnestly to prove thy valour , and not to boast vainly that none can overcome thee , I have somewhat to show thee .
But to-night thou must sleep in the this castle , and in the morning see that thou rise early and follow the road upwards through the valley , until thou reachest a wood .
In the wood be a path branching to the right ; go along this path until thou comest to a space of grass with a mound in the middle of it .
On the top of the mound stand a black man , large than any two white men ; his eye be in the centre of his forehead and he have only one foot .
He carry a club of iron , and two white men could hardly lift it .
Around him graze a thousand beast , all of different kind , for he be the guardian of that wood , and it be he who will tell thee which way to go in order to find the adventure thou art in quest of . ''
` So spake the man , and long do that night seem to me , and before dawn I rise and put on my armour , and mount my horse and rode on till I reach the grassy space of which he have tell me .
There be the black man on top of the mound , a he have say , and in truth he be mightier in all way than I have think him to be .
As for the club , Kai , it would have be a burden for four of our warrior .
He wait for me to speak , and I ask him what power he hold over the beast that throng so close about him . '
`` I will show thee , little man , '' he answer , and with his club he strike a stag on the head till he bray loudly .
And at his bray the animal come run , numerous a the star in the sky , so that scarce be I able to stand among them .
Serpents be there also , and dragon , and beast of strange shape , with horn in place where never saw I horn before .
And the black man only look at them and bid them go and fee .
And they bow themselves before him , a vassal before their lord . '
`` Now , little man , I have answer thy question and show thee my power , '' say he .
`` Is there anything else thou wouldest know ? ''
Then I inquire of him my way , but he grow angry , and , a I perceive , would fain have hinder me ; but at the last , after I have tell him who I be , his anger pass from him . '
`` Take that path , '' say he , `` that lead to the head of this grassy glade , and go up the wood till thou reachest the top .
There thou wilt find an open space , and in the midst of it a tall tree .
Under the tree be a fountain , and by the fountain a marble slab , and on the slab a bowl of silver , with a silver chain .
Dip the bowl in the fountain , and throw the water on the slab , and thou wilt hear a might peal of thunder , till heaven and earth seem tremble with the noise .
After the thunder will come hail , so fierce that scarcely canst thou endure it and live , for the hailstone be both large and thick .
Then the sun will shine again , but every leaf of the tree will by lie on the ground .
Next a flight of bird will come and alight on the tree , and never didst thou hear a strain so sweet a that which they will sing .
And at the moment in which their song sound sweet thou wilt hear a murmuring and complain come towards thee along the valley , and thou wilt see a knight in black velvet bestride a black horse , bear a lance with a black pennon , and he will spur his steed so a to fight thee .
If thou turnest to flee , he will overtake thee .
And if thou abidest be thou art , he will unhorse thee .
And if thou dost not find trouble in that adventure , thou needest not to seek it during the rest of thy life . ''
` So I bid the black man farewell , and take my way to the top of the wood , and there I find everything just a I have be tell .
I go up to the tree beneath which stand the fountain , and fill the silver bowl with water , empty it on the marble slab .
Thereupon the thunder come , louder by far than I have expect to hear it , and after the thunder come the shower , but heavy by far than I have expect to feel it , for , of a truth I tell thee , Kai , not one of those hailstone would be stop by skin or by flesh till it have reach the bone .
I turn my horse 's flank towards the shower , and , bend over his neck , hold my shield so that it might cover his head and my own .
When the hail have pass , I look on the tree and not a single leaf be leave on it , and the sky be blue and the sun shining , while on the branch be perch bird of very kind , who sing a song sweeter than any that have come to my ear , either before or since .
` Thus , Kai , I stand listen to the bird , when lo , a murmuring voice approach me , say : ' `` O knight , what have bring thee hither ?
What evil have I do to thee , that thou shouldest do so much to me , for in all my land neither man nor beast that meet that shower have escape alive . ''
Then from the valley appear the knight on the black horse , grasp the lance with the black pennon .
Straightway we charge each other , and though I fight my best , he soon overcame me , and I be throw to the ground , while the knight seize the bridle of my horse , and ride away with it , leave me where I be , without even despoil me of my armour .
` Sadly do I go down the hill again , and when I reach the glade where the black man be , I confess to thee , Kai , it be a marvel that I do not melt into a liquid pool , so great be my shame .
That night I sleep at the castle where I have be before , and I be bath and feast , and none ask me how I have fare .
The next morning when I arise I find a bay horse saddle for me , and , girdle on my armour , I return to my own court .
The horse be still in the stable , and I would not part with it for any in Britain .
` But of a truth , Kai , no man ever confess an adventure so much to his own dishonour , and strange indeed it seem that none other man have I ever meet that knew of the black man , and the knight and the shower . '
` Would it not be well , ' say Owen , ` to go and discover the place ? '
` By the hand of my friend , ' answer Kai , ` often dost thou utter that with thy tongue which thou wouldest not make good with thy deed . '
` In truth , ' say Guenevere the queen , who have listen to the tale , ` thou wert well hang , Kai , than use such speech towards a man like Owen . ' '
I mean nothing , lady , ' reply Kai ; ` thy praise of Owen be not great than mine . '
And a he speak Arthur awoke , and ask if he have not sleep for a little .
` Yes , lord , ' answer Owen , ` certainly thou hast slept . '
` Is it time for u to go to meat ? '
` It be , lord , ' answer Owen .
Then the horn for wash themselves be sound , and after that the king and his household sit down to eat .
And when they have finish , Owen leave them , and make ready his horse and his arm .
With the first ray of the sun he set forth , and travel through desert and over mountain and across river , and all befall him which have befall Kynon , till he stand under the leafless tree listen to the song of the bird .
Then he hear the voice , and turn to look found the knight gallop to meet him .
Fiercely they fight till their lance be break , and then they draw their sword , and a blow from Owen cut through the knight 's helmet , and pierce his skull .
Feeling himself wound unto death the knight flee , and Owen pursue him till they come to a splendid castle .
Here the knight dash across the bridge that span the moat , and enter the gate , but as soon a he be safe inside , the drawbridge be pull up and catch Owen 's horse in the middle , so that half of him be inside and half out , and Owen could not dismount and know not what to do .
While he be in this sore plight a little door in the castle gate open , and he could see a street face him , with tall house .
Then a maiden with curl hair of gold look through the little door and bade Owen open the gate .
` By my troth ! '
cry Owen , ' I can no more open it from here than thou art able to set me free . '
` Well , ' say she , ' I will do my best to release thee if thou wilt do a I tell thee .
Take this ring and put it on with the stone inside thy hand , and close thy finger tight , for as long a thou dost conceal it , it will conceal thee .
When the men inside have hold counsel together , they will come to fetch thee to thy death , and they will be much grieve not to find thee .
I will stand on the horse block yonder and thou canst see me though I can not see thee .
Therefore draw near and place thy hand on my shoulder and follow me wheresoever I go . '
Upon that she go away from Owen , and when the men come out from the castle to seek him and do not find him they be sorely grieve , and they return to the castle .
Then Owen go to the maiden and place his hand on her shoulder , and she guide him to a large room , paint all over with rich colour , and adorn with image of gold .
Here she give him meat and drink , and water to wash with and garment to wear , and he lay down upon a soft bed , with scarlet and fur to cover him , and sleep gladly .
In the middle of the night he wake hear a great outcry , and he jump up and clothe himself and go into the hall , where the maiden be stand .
` What be it ? '
he ask , and she answer that the knight who own the castle be dead , and they be bear his body to the church .
Never have Owen behold such vast crowd , and follow the dead knight be the most beautiful lady in the world , whose cry be loud than the shout of the men , or the braying of the trumpet .
And Owen look on her and love her .
` Who be she ? '
he ask the damsel .
` That be my mistress , the countess of the fountain , and the wife of him whom thou didst slay yesterday . '
` Verily , ' say Owen , ` she be the woman that I love best . '
` She shall also love thee not a little , ' say the maiden .
Then she leave Owen , and after a while go into the chamber of her mistress , and speak to her , but the countess answer her nothing .
` What aileth thee , mistress ? '
inquire the maiden .
` Why hast thou keep far from me in my grief , Luned ? '
answer the countess , and in her turn the damsel ask : ` Is it well for thee to mourn so bitterly for the dead , or for anything that be go from thee ? '
` There be no man in the world equal to him , ' reply the countess , her cheek grow red with anger . '
I would fain banish thee for such word . '
` Be not angry , lady , ' say Luned , ` but listen to my counsel .
Thou knowest well that alone thou canst not preserve thy land , therefore seek some one to help thee . '
` And how can I do that ? '
ask the countess . '
I will tell thee , ' answer Luned .
` Unless thou canst defend the fountain all will be lose , and none can defend the fountain except a knight of Arthur 's court .
There will I go to seek him , and woe betide me if I return without a warrior that can guard the fountain , as well a he who keep it before . '
` Go then , ' say the countess , ` and make proof of that which thou hast promise . '
So Luned set out , rid on a white palfrey , on pretence of journey to King Arthur 's court , but instead of do that she hide herself for as many day a it would have take her to go and come , and then she leave her hiding-place , and go into the countess .
` What news from the court ? '
ask her mistress , when she have give Luned a warm greeting .
` The best of news , ' answer the maiden , ` for I have gain the object of my mission .
When wilt thou that I present to thee the knight who have return with me ? '
` To-morrow at midday , ' say the countess , ` and I will cause all the people in the town to come together . '
Therefore the next day at noon Owen put on his coat of mail , and over it he wear a splendid mantle , while on his foot be leather shoe fasten with clasp of gold .
And he follow Luned to the chamber of her mistress .
Right glad be the countess to see them , but she look closely at Owen and say : ` Luned , this knight have scarcely the air of a traveller . '
` What harm be there in that , lady ? '
answer Luned . '
I be persuade , ' say the countess , ` that this man and no other chase the soul from the body of my lord . '
` Had he not be strong than thy lord , ' reply the damsel , ` he could not have take his life , and for that , and for all thing that be past , there be no remedy . '
` Leave me , both of you , ' say the countess , ` and I will take counsel . '
Then they go out .
The next morning the countess summon her subject to meet in the courtyard of the castle , and tell them that now that her husband be dead there be none to defend her land .
` So choose you which it shall be , ' she say .
` Either let one of you take me for a wife , or give me your consent to take a new lord for myself , that my land be not without a master . '
At her word the chief men of the city withdraw into one corner and take counsel together , and after a while the leader come forward and say that they have decide that it be best , for the peace and safety of all , that she should choose a husband for herself .
Thereupon Owen be summon to her presence , and he accept with joy the hand that she offer him , and they be marry forthwith , and the men of the earldom do him homage .
From that day Owen defend the fountain a the earl before him have do , and every knight that come by be overthrow by him , and his ransom divide among his baron .
In this way three year pass , and no man in the world be more beloved than Owen .
Now at the end of the three year it happen that Gwalchmai the knight be with Arthur , and he perceive the king to be very sad .
` My lord , have anything befall thee ? '
he ask .
` Oh , Gwalchmai , I be grieved concerning Owen , whom I have lose these three year , and if a fourth year pass without him I can live no longer .
And sure be I that the tale tell by Kynon the son of Clydno cause me to lose him .
I will go myself with the men of my household to avenge him if he be dead , to free him if he be in prison , to bring him back if he be alive . '
Then Arthur and three thousand men of his household set out in quest of Owen , and take Kynon for their guide .
When Arthur reach the castle , the youth be shoot in the same place , and the same yellow man be stand by , and as soon a he behold Arthur he greet him and invite him in , and they enter together .
So vast be the castle that the king 's three thousand men be of no more account than if they have be twenty .
At sunrise Arthur depart thence , with Kynon for his guide , and reach the black man first , and afterwards the top of the wooded hill , with the fountain and the bowl and the tree .
` My lord , ' say Kai , ` let me throw the water on the slab , and receive the first adventure that may befall . '
` Thou mayest do so , ' answer Arthur , and Kai throw the water .
Immediately all happen a before ; the thunder and the shower of hail which kill many of Arthur 's men ; the song of the bird and the appearance of the black knight .
And Kai meet him and fight him , and be overthrow by him .
Then the knight ride away , and Arthur and his men encamp where they stand .
In the morning Kai again ask leave to meet the knight and to try to overcome him , which Arthur grant .
But once more he be unhorsed , and the black knight 's lance break his helmet and pierce the skin even to the bone , and humble in spirit he return to the camp .
After this every one of the knight give battle , but none come out victor , and at length there only remain Arthur himself and Gwalchmai .
` Oh , let me fight him , my lord , ' cry Gwalchmai , a he saw Arthur take up his arm .
` Well , fight then , ' answer Arthur , and Gwalchmai throw a robe over himself and his horse , so that none know him .
All that day they fight , and neither be able to throw the other , and so it be on the next day .
On the third day the combat be so fierce that they fell both to the ground at once , and fought on their foot , and at last the black knight give his foe such a blow on his head that his helmet fell from his face . '
I do not know it be thee , Gwalchmai , ' say the black knight .
` Take my sword and my arm . '
` No , ' answer Gwalchmai , ` it be thou , Owen , who art the victor , take thou my sword ' ; but Owen would not .
` Give me your sword , ' say Arthur from behind them , ` for neither of you have vanquish the other , ' and Owen turn and put his arm round Arthur 's neck .
The next day Arthur would have give order to his men to make ready to go back whence they come , but Owen stop him .
` My lord , ' he say , ` during the three year that I have be absent from thee I have be prepare a banquet for thee , know full well that thou wouldst come to seek me .
Tarry with me , therefore , for a while , thou and thy men . '
So they ride to the castle of the countess of the fountain , and spend three month in rest and feasting .
And when it be time for them to depart Arthur beseech the countess that she would allow Owen to go with him to Britain for the space of three month .
With a sore heart she grant permission , and so content be Owen to be once more with his old companion that three year instead of three month pass away like a dream .
One day Owen sit at meat in the castle of Caerleon upon Usk , when a damsel on a bay horse enter the hall , and rid straight up to the place where Owen sit she stoop and draw the ring from off his hand .
` Thus shall be treat the traitor and the faithless , ' say she , and turn her horse 's head she ride out of the hall .
At her word Owen remember all that he have forget , and sorrowful and ashamed he go to his own chamber and make ready to depart .
At the dawn he set out , but he do not go back to the castle , for his heart be heavy , but he wander far into wild place till his body be weak and thin , and his hair be long .
The wild beast be his friend , and he slept by their side , but in the end he long to see the face of a man again , and he come down into a valley and fell asleep by a lake in the land of a widowed countess .
Now it be the time when the countess take her walk , attend by her maiden , and when they saw a man lying by the lake they shrink back in terror , for he lay so still that they think he be dead .
But when they have overcome their fright , they draw near him , and touch him , and saw that there be life in him .
Then the countess hasten to the castle , and bring from it a flask full of precious ointment and give it to one of her maiden .
` Take that horse which be graze yonder , ' she say , ` and a suit of men 's garment , and place them near the man , and pour some of this ointment near his heart .
If there be any life in him that will bring it back .
But if he move , hide thyself in the bush near by , and see what he do . '
The damsel take the flask and do her mistress ' bidding .
Soon the man begin to move his arm , and then rise slowly to his foot .
Creeping forward step by step he take the garment from off the saddle and put them on him , and painfully he mount the horse .
When he be seat the damsel come forth and greet him , and glad be he when he saw her and inquire what castle that be before him .
` It belong to a widowed countess , ' answer the maiden .
` Her husband leave her two earldom , but it be all that remain of her broad land , for they have be tear from her by a young earl , because she would not marry him . '
` That be a pity , ' reply Owen , but he say no more , for he be too weak to talk much .
Then the maiden guide him to the castle , and kindle a fire , and bring him food .
And there he stay and be tend for three month , till he be handsome than ever he be .
At noon one day Owen hear a sound of arm outside the castle , and he ask of the maiden what it be .
` It be the earl of whom I speak to thee , ' she answer , ` who have come with a great host to carry off my mistress . '
` Beg of her to lend me a horse and armour , ' say Owen , and the maiden do so , but the countess laugh somewhat bitterly a she answer : ` Nay , but I will give them to him , and such a horse and armour and weapon a he have never have yet , though I know not what use they will be to him .
Yet mayhap it will save them from fall into the hand of my enemy . '
The horse be bring out and Owen ride forth with two page behind him , and they saw the great host encamp before them .
` Where be the earl ? '
say he , and the page answer : ` In yonder troop where be four yellow standard . '
` Await me , ' say Owen , ` at the gate of the castle , and he cry a challenge to the earl , who come to meet him .
Hard do they fight , but Owen overthrow his enemy and drive him in front to the castle gate and into the hall .
` Behold the reward of thy bless balsam , ' say he , a he bid the earl kneel down before her , and make him swear that he would restore all that he have take from her .
After that he depart , and go into the desert , and a he be pass through a wood he hear a loud yelling .
Pushing aside the bush he behold a lion stand on a great mound , and by it a rock .
Near the rock be a lion seek to reach the mound , and each time he move out dart a serpent from the rock to prevent him .
Then Owen unsheathe his sword , and cut off the serpent 's head and go on his way , and the lion follow and play about him , a if he have be a greyhound .
And much more useful be he than a greyhound , for in the evening he bring large log in his mouth to kindle a fire , and kill a fat buck for dinner .
Owen make his fire and skin the buck , and put some of it to roast , and give the rest to the lion for supper .
While he be wait for the meat to cook he hear a sound of deep sigh close to him , and he say : ` Who be thou ? ' '
I be Luned , ' reply a voice from a cave so hidden by bush and green hanging plant that Owen have not see it .
` And what dost thou here ? '
cry he . '
I be hold captive in this cave on account of the knight who marry the countess and leave her , for the page speak ill of him , and because I tell them that no man living be his equal they drag me here and say I should die unless he should come to deliver me by a certain day , and that be no further than the day after to-morrow .
His name be Owen the son of Urien , but I have none to send to tell him of my danger , or of a surety he would deliver me . '
Owen hold his peace , but give the maiden some of the meat , and bid her be of good cheer .
Then , follow by the lion , he set out for a great castle on the other side of the plain , and men come and take his horse and place it in a manger , and the lion go after and lay down on the straw .
Hospitable and kind be all within the castle , but so full of sorrow that it might have be think death be upon them .
At length , when they have eat and drunk , Owen pray the earl to tell him the reason of their grief .
` Yesterday , ' answer the earl , ` my two son be seize , while thy be hunt , by a monster who dwell on those mountain yonder , and he vow that he will not let them go unless I give him my daughter to wife . '
` That shall never be , ' say Owen ; ` but what form hath this monster ? '
` In shape he be a man , but in stature he be a giant , ' reply the earl , ` and it be good by far that he should slay my son than that I should give up my daughter . '
Early next morning the dweller in the castle be awaken by a great clamour , and they find that the giant have arrive with the two young men .
Swiftly Owen put on his armour and go forth to meet the giant , and the lion follow at his heel .
And when the great beast behold the hard blow which the giant deal his master he fly at his throat , and much trouble have the monster in beat him off .
` Truly , ' say the giant , ' I should find no difficulty in fight thee , if it be not for that lion . '
When he hear that Owen felt shame that he could not overcome the giant with his own sword , so he take the lion and shut him up in one of the tower of the castle , and return to the fight .
But from the sound of the blow the lion know that the combat be go ill for Owen , so he climb up till he reach the top of the tower , where there be a door on to the roof , and from the tower he spring on to the wall , and from the wall to the ground .
Then with a loud roar he leap upon the giant , who fell dead under the blow of his paw .
Now the gloom of the castle be turn into rejoicing , and the earl beg Owen to stay with him till he could make him a feast , but the knight say he have other work to do , and ride back to the place where he have leave Luned , and the lion follow at his heel .
When he come there he saw a great fire kindle , and two youth lead out the maiden to cast her upon the pile .
` Stop ! '
he cry , dash up to them .
` What charge have you against her ? '
` She boast that no man in the world be equal to Owen , ' say they , ` and we shut her in a cave , and agree that none should deliver her but Owen himself , and that if he do not come by a certain day she should die .
And now the time have past and there be no sign of him . '
` In truth he be a good knight , and have he but know that the maid be in peril he would have come to save her , ' say Owen ; ` but accept me in his stead , I entreat you . '
` We will , ' reply they , and the fight begin .
The youth fight well and press hard on Owen , and when the lion saw that he come to help his master .
But the youth make a sign for the fight to stop , and say : ` Chieftain , it be agree we should give battle to thee alone , and it be hard for u to contend with yonder beast than with thee . '
Then Owen shut up the lion in the cave where the maiden have be in prison , and block up the front with stone .
But the fight with the giant have sorely try him , and the youth fought well , and press him hard than before .
And when the lion saw that he give a loud roar , and burst through the stone , and spring upon the youth and slew them .
And so Luned be deliver at the last .
Then the maiden rode back with Owen to the land of the lady of the fountain .
And he take the lady with him to Arthur 's court , where they live happily till they die .
From the ` Mabinogion . '
The Four Gifts In the old land of Brittany , once call Cornwall , there live a woman name Barbaik Bourhis , who spend all her day in look after her farm with the help of her niece Tephany .
Early and late the two might be see in the field or in the dairy , milk cow , make butter , feed fowl ; work hard themselves and take care that others work too .
Perhaps it might have be good for Barbaik if she have leave herself a little time to rest and to think about other thing , for soon she grow to love money for it own sake , and only give herself and Tephany the food and clothes they absolutely need .
And a for poor people she positively hat them , and declare that such lazy creature have no business in the world .
Well , this be the sort of person Barbaik be , it be easy to guess at her anger when one day she find Tephany talk outside the cowhouse to young Denis , who be nothing more than a day labourer from the village of Plover .
Seizing her niece by the arm , she pull her sharply away , exclaim : ` Are you not ashamed , girl , to waste your time over a man who be as poor a a rat , when there be a dozen more who would be only too happy to buy you ring of silver , if you would let them ? '
` Denis be a good workman , a you know very well , ' answer Tephany , red with anger , ` and he put by money too , and soon he will be able to take a farm for himself . '
` Nonsense , ' cry Barbaik , ` he will never save enough for a farm till he be a hundred .
I would sooner see you in your grave than the wife of a man who carry his whole fortune on his back . '
` What do fortune matter when one be young and strong ? '
ask Tephany , but her aunt , amaze at such word , would hardly let her finish .
` What do fortune matter ? '
repeat Barbaik , in a shocked voice .
` Is it possible that you be really so foolish a to despise money ?
If this be what you learn from Denis , I forbid you to speak to him , and I will have him turn out of the farm if he dare to show his face here again .
Now go and wash the clothes and spread them out to dry . '
Tephany do not dare to disobey , but with a heavy heart go down the path to the river .
` She be hard than these rock , ' say the girl to herself , ` yes , a thousand time hard .
For the rain at least can at last wear away the stone , but you might cry for ever , and she would never care .
Talking to Denis be the only pleasure I have , and if I be not to see him I may as well enter a convent . '
Thinking these thought she reach the bank , and begin to unfold the large packet of linen that have to be wash .
The tap of a stick make her look up , and stand before her she saw a little old woman , whose face be strange to her .
` You would like to sit down and rest , granny ? '
ask Tephany , push aside her bundle .
` When the sky be all the roof you have , you rest where you will , ' reply the old woman in tremble tone .
` Are you so lonely , then ? '
inquire Tephany , full of pity .
` Have you no friend who would welcome you into their house ? '
The old woman shake her head .
` They all die long , long ago , ' she answer , ` and the only friend I have be stranger with kind heart . '
The girl do not speak for a moment , then hold out the small loaf and some bacon intend for her dinner .
` Take this , ' she say ; ` to-day at any rate you shall dine well , ' and the old woman take it , gaze at Tephany the while .
` Those who help others deserve to be help , ' she answer ; ` your eye be still red because that miser Barbaik have forbid you to speak to the young man from Plover .
But cheer up , you be a good girl , and I will give you something that will enable you to see him once every day . '
` You ? '
cry Tephany , stupefy at discover that the beggar know all about her affair , but the old woman do not hear her .
` Take this long copper pin , ' she go on , ` and every time you stick it in your dress Mother Bourhis will be oblige to leave the house in order to go and count her cabbage .
As long a the pin be in your dress you will be free , and your aunt will not come back until you have put it in it case again . '
Then , rise , she nod to Tephany and vanish .
The girl stand where she be , as still a a stone .
If it have not be for the pin in her hand she would have think she be dream .
But by that token she know it be no common old woman who have give it to her , but a fairy , wise in tell what would happen in the day to come .
Then suddenly Tephany 's eye fell on the clothes , and to make up for lose time she begin to wash them with great vigour .
Next evening , at the moment when Denis be accustom to wait for her in the shadow of the cowhouse , Tephany stick the pin in her dress , and at the very same instant Barbaik take up her sabot or wooden shoe and go through the orchard and past to the field , to the plot where the cabbage grow .
With a heart as light a her footstep , the girl run from the house , and spend her even happily with Denis .
And so it be for many day after that .
Then , at last , Tephany begin to notice something , and the something make her very sad .
At first , Denis seem to find the hour that they be together fly as quickly a she do , but when he have teach her all the song he know , and tell her all the plan he have make for grow rich and a great man , he have nothing more to say to her , for he , like a great many other people , be fond of talk himself , but not of listen to any one else .
Sometimes , indeed , he never come at all , and the next evening he would tell Tephany that he have be force to go into the town on business , but though she never reproach him she be not deceive and saw plainly that he no longer care for her a he use to do .
Day by day her heart grow heavy and her cheek paler , and one evening , when she have wait for him in vain , she put her water-pot on her shoulder and go slowly down to the spring .
On the path in front of her stood the fairy who have give her the pin , and a she glance at Tephany she give a little mischievous laugh and say : ` Why , my pretty maiden hardly look happy than she do before , in spite of meet her lover whenever she please . '
` He have grow tire of me , ' answer Tephany in a trembling voice , ` and he make excuse to stay away .
Ah !
granny dear , it be not enough to be able to see him , I must be able to amuse him and to keep him with me .
He be so clever , you know .
Help me to be clever too . '
` Is that what you want ? '
cry the old woman .
` Well , take this feather and stick it in your hair , and you will be as wise a Solomon himself . '
Blushing with pleasure Tephany go home and stick the feather into the blue ribbon which girls always wear in that part of the country .
In a moment she hear Denis whistle gaily , and a her aunt be safely count her cabbage , she hurry out to meet him .
The young man be strike dumb by her talk .
There be nothing that she do not seem to know , and a for song she not only could sing those from every part of Brittany , but could compose them herself .
Was this really the quiet girl who have be so anxious to learn all he could teach her , or be it somebody else ?
Perhaps she have go suddenly mad , and there be an evil spirit inside her .
But in any case , night after night he come back , only to find her grow wiser and wiser .
Soon the neighbour whisper their surprise among themselves , for Tephany have not be able to resist the pleasure of put the feather in her hair for some of the people who despise her for her poor clothes , and many be the joke she make about them .
Of course they hear of her jest , and shake their head say : ` She be an ill-natured little cat , and the man that marry her will find that it be she who will hold the rein and drive the horse . '
It be not long before Denis begin to agree with them , and a he always like to be master wherever he go , he become afraid of Tephany 's sharp tongue , and instead of laugh a before when she make fun of other people he grow red and uncomfortable , think that his turn would come next .
So matter go on till one evening Denis tell Tephany that he really could not stay a moment , a he have promise to go to a dance that be to be hold in the next village .
Tephany 's face fell ; she have work hard all day , and have be count on a quiet hour with Denis .
She do her best to persuade him to remain with her , but he would not listen , and at last she grow angry .
` Oh , I know why you be so anxious not to miss the dance , ' she say ; ` it be because Aziliez of Pennenru will be there . '
Now Aziliez be the lovely girl for mile round , and she and Denis have know each other from childhood .
` Oh yes , Aziliez will be there , ' answer Denis , who be quite pleased to see her jealous , ` and naturally one would go a long way to watch her dance . '
` Go then ! '
cry Tephany , and enter the house she slam the door behind her .
Lonely and miserable she sit down by the fire and star into the red ember .
Then , fling the feather from her hair , she put her head on her hand , and sob passionately .
` What be the use of be clever when it be beauty that men want ?
That be what I ought to have ask for .
But it be too late , Denis will never come back . '
` Since you wish it so much you shall have beauty , ' say a voice at her side , and look round she behold the old woman lean on her stick .
` Fasten this necklace round your neck , and as long a you wear it you will be the most beautiful woman in the world , ' continue the fairy .
With a little shriek of joy Tephany take the necklace , and snap the clasp run to the mirror which hung in the corner .
Ah , this time she be not afraid of Aziliez or of any other girl , for surely none could be a fair and white a she .
And with the sight of her face a thought come to her , and put on hastily her best dress and her buckled shoe she hurry off to the dance .
On the way she meet a beautiful carriage with a young man seat in it .
` What a lovely maiden ! '
he exclaim , a Tephany approach .
` Why , there be not a girl in my own country that can be compare to her .
She , and no other , shall be my bride . '
The carriage be large and bar the narrow road , so Tephany be force , much against her will , to remain where she be .
But she look the young man full in the face a she answer : ` Go your way , noble lord , and let me go mine .
I be only a poor peasant girl , accustom to milk , and make hay and spin . '
` Peasant you may be , but I will make you a great lady , ' say he , take her hand and try to lead her to the carriage . '
I do n't want to be a great lady , I only want to be the wife of Denis , ' she reply , throw off his hand and running to the ditch which divide the road from the cornfield , where he hop to hide .
Unluckily the young man guess what she be do , and sign to his attendant , who seize her and put her in the coach .
The door be bang , and the horse whip up into a gallop .
At the end of an hour they arrive at a splendid castle , and Tephany , who would not move , be lift out and carry into the hall , while a priest be send for to perform the marriage ceremony .
The young man try to win a smile from her by tell of all the beautiful thing she should have a his wife , but Tephany do not listen to him , and look about to see if there be any mean by which she could escape .
It do not seem easy .
The three great door be closely bar , and the one through which she have enter shut with a spring , but her feather be still in her hair , and by it aid she detect a crack in the wooden panelling , through which a streak of light could be dimly see .
Touching the copper pin which fasten her dress , the girl send every one in the hall to count the cabbage , while she herself pass through the little door , not know whither she be go .
By this time night have fall , and Tephany be very tired .
Thankfully she find herself at the gate of a convent , and ask if she might stay there till morning .
But the portress answer roughly that it be no place for beggar , and bid her begone , so the poor girl drag herself slowly along the road , till a light and the bark of a dog tell her that she be near a farm .
In front of the house be a group of people ; two or three woman and the son of the farmer .
When their mother hear Tephany 's request to be give a bed the good wife 's heart soften , and she be just go to invite her inside , when the young men , whose head be turn by the girl 's beauty , begin to quarrel a to which should do most for her .
From word they come to blow , and the woman , frighten at the disturbance , pelt Tephany with insulting name .
She quickly run down the near path , hop to escape them in the darkness of the tree , but in an instant she hear their footstep behind her .
Wild with fear her leg tremble under her , when suddenly she bethink herself of her necklace .
With a violent effort she burst the clasp and flung it round the neck of a pig which be grunt in a ditch , and a she do so she hear the footstep cease from pursue her and run after the pig , for her charm have vanish .
On she go , scarcely know where she be go , till she find herself , to her surprise and joy , close to her aunt 's house .
For several day she felt so tired and unhappy that she could hardly get through her work , and to make matter bad Denis scarcely ever come near her .
` He be too busy , ' he say , ` and really it be only rich people who could afford to waste time in talk . '
As the day go on Tephany grow paler and paler , till everybody notice it except her aunt .
The water-pot be almost too heavy for her now , but morning and evening she carry it to the spring , though the effort to lift it to her shoulder be often too much for her .
` How could I have be so foolish , ' she whisper to herself , when she go down as usual at sunset .
` It be not freedom to see Denis that I should have ask for , for he be soon weary of me , nor a quick tongue , for he be afraid of it , nor beauty , for that bring me nothing but trouble , but rich which make life easy both for oneself and others .
Ah !
if I only dare to beg this gift from the fairy , I should be wise than before and know how to choose good . '
` Be satisfy , ' say the voice of the old woman , who seem to be stand unseen at Tephany 's elbow .
` If you look in your right-hand pocket when you go home you will find a small box .
Rub your eye with the ointment it contain , and you will see that you yourself contain a priceless treasure . '
Tephany do not in the least understand what she mean , but run back to the farm as fast a she could , and begin to fumble joyfully in her right-hand pocket .
Sure enough , there be the little box with the precious ointment .
She be in the act of rub her eye with it when Barbaik Bourhis enter the room .
Ever since she have be oblige to leave her work and pass her time , she do not know why , in count cabbage , everything have go wrong , and she could not get a labourer to stay with her because of her bad temper .
When , therefore , she saw her niece stand quietly before her mirror , Barbaik break out : ` So this be what you do when I be out in the field !
Ah !
it be no wonder if the farm be ruin .
Are you not ashamed , girl , to behave so ? '
Tephany try to stammer some excuse , but her aunt be half mad with rage , and a box on the ear be her only answer .
At this Tephany , hurt , bewilder and excite , could control herself no longer , and turn away burst into tear .
But what be her surprise when she saw that each tear-drop be a round and shin pearl .
Barbaik , who also behold this marvel , utter a cry of astonishment , and throw herself on her knee to pick them up from the floor .
She be still gather them when the door open and in come Denis .
` Pearls !
Are they really pearl ? '
he ask , fall on his knee also , and look up at Tephany he perceive others still more beautiful roll down the girl 's cheek .
` Take care not to let any of the neighbour hear of it , Denis , ' say Barbaik .
` Of course you shall have your share , but nobody else shall get a single one .
Cry on , my dear , cry on , ' she continue to Tephany .
It be for your good as well a ours , ' and she hold out her apron to catch them , and Denis his hat .
But Tephany could hardly bear any more .
She felt half choke at the sight of their greediness , and want to rush from the hall , and though Barbaik catch her arm to prevent this , and say all sort of tender word which she think would make the girl weep the more , Tephany with a violent effort force back her tear , and wipe her eye .
` Is she finish already ? '
cry Barbaik , in a tone of disappointment .
` Oh , try again , my dear .
Do you think it would do any good to beat her a little ? '
she add to Denis , who shake his head .
` That be enough for the first time .
I will go into the town and find out the value of each pearl . '
` Then I will go with you , ' say Barbaik , who never trust anyone and be afraid of be cheat .
So the two go out , leave Tephany behind them .
She sit quite still on her chair , her hand clasp tightly together , a if she be force something back .
At last she raise her eye , which have be fix on the ground , and behold the fairy standing in a dark corner by the hearth , observe her with a mocking look .
The girl tremble and jump up , then , take the feather , the pin , and the box , she hold them out to the old woman .
` Here they be , all of them , ' she cry ; ` they belong to you .
Let me never see them again , but I have learn the lesson that they teach me .
Others may have rich , beauty and wit , but a for me I desire nothing but to be the poor peasant girl I always be , work hard for those she love . '
` Yes , you have learn your lesson , ' answer the fairy , ` and now you shall lead a peaceful life and marry the man you love .
For after all it be not yourself you think of but him . '
Never again do Tephany see the old woman , but she forgive Denis for sell her tear , and in time he grow to be a good husband , who do his own share of work .
From ` Le Foyer Breton , ' par E. Souvestre .
The Groac ' h of the Isle of Lok In old time , when all kind of wonderful thing happen in Brittany , there live in the village of Lanillis , a young man name Houarn Pogamm and a girl call Bellah Postik .
They be cousin , and a their mother be great friend , and constantly in and out of each other 's house , they have often be lay in the same cradle , and have play and fight over their game .
` When they be grow up they will marry , ' say the mother ; but just a every one be begin to think of wed bell , the two mother die , and the cousin , who have no money , go a servant in the same house .
This be good than be part , of course , but not so good a have a little cottage of their own , where they could do a they like , and soon they might have be hear bewail to each other the hardness of their lot .
` If we could only manage to buy a cow and get a pig to fatten , ' grumble Houarn , ' I would rent a bit of ground from the master , and then we could be marry . '
` Yes , ' answer Bellah , with a deep sigh ; ` but we live in such hard time , and at the last fair the price of pig have rise again . '
` We shall have long to wait , that be quite clear , ' reply Houarn , turn away to his work .
Whenever they meet they repeat their grievance , and at length Houarn 's patience be exhaust , and one morning he come to Bellah and tell her that he be go away to seek his fortune .
The girl be very unhappy a she listen to this , and felt sorry that she have not try to make the best of thing .
She implore Houarn not to leave her , but he would listen to nothing .
` The bird , ' he say , ` continue fly until they reach a field of corn , and the bee do not stop unless they find the honey-giving flower , and why should a man have less sense than they ?
Like them , I shall seek till I get what I want -- that be , money to buy a cow and a pig to fatten .
And if you love me , Bellah , you wo n't attempt to hinder a plan which will hasten our marriage . '
The girl saw it be useless to say more , so she answer sadly : ` Well , go then , since you must .
But first I will divide with you all that my parent leave me , ' and go to her room , she open a small chest , and take from it a bell , a knife , and a little stick .
` This bell , ' she say , ` can be hear at any distance , however far , but it only ring to warn u that our friend be in great danger .
The knife free all it touch from the spell that have be lay on them ; while the stick will carry you wherever you want to go .
I will give you the knife to guard you against the enchantment of wizard , and the bell to tell me of your peril .
The stick I shall keep for myself , so that I can fly to you if ever you have need of me . '
Then they cry for a little on each other 's neck , and Houarn start for the mountain .
But in those day , a in these , beggar abound , and through every village he pass they follow Houarn in crowd , mistake him for a gentleman , because there be no hole in his clothes .
` There be no fortune to be make here , ' he think to himself ; ` it be a place for spending , and not earn .
I see I must go far , ' and he walk on to Pont-aven , a pretty little town build on the bank of a river .
He be sit on a bench outside an inn , when he hear two men who be load their mule talk about the Groac ' h of the island of Lok .
` What be a Groac ` h ? '
ask he . '
I have never come across one . '
And the men answer that it be the name give to the fairy that dwell in the lake , and that she be rich -- oh !
rich than all the king in the world put together .
Many have go to the island to try and get possession of her treasure , but no one have ever come back .
As he listen Houarn 's mind be make up . '
I will go , and return too , ' he say to the muleteer .
They star at him in astonishment , and beseech him not to be so mad and to throw away his life in such a foolish manner ; but he only laugh , and answer that if they could tell him of any other way in which to procure a cow and a pig to fatten , he would think no more about it .
But the men do not know how this be to be do , and , shake their head over his obstinacy , leave him to his fate .
So Houarn go down to the sea , and find a boatman who engage to take him to the isle of Lok .
The island be large , and lie almost across it be a lake , with a narrow opening to the sea .
Houarn pay the boatman and send him away , and then proceed to walk round the lake .
At one end he perceive a small skiff , paint blue and shape like a swan , lie under a clump of yellow broom .
As far a he could see , the swan 's head be tuck under it wing , and Houarn , who have never behold a boat of the sort , go quickly towards it and step in , so a to examine it the good .
But no sooner be he on board than the swan wake suddenly up ; his head emerge from under his wing , his foot begin to move in the water , and in another moment they be in the middle of the lake .
As soon a the young man have recover from his surprise , he prepare to jump into the lake and swim to shore .
But the bird have guess his intention , and plunge beneath the water , carry Houarn with him to the palace of the Groac ` h. Now , unless you have be under the sea and behold all the wonder that lie there , you can never have an idea what the Groac ` h 's palace be like .
It be all make of shell , blue and green and pink and lilac and white , shade into each other till you could not tell where one colour end and the other begin .
The staircase be of crystal , and every separate stair sang like a woodland bird a you put your foot on it .
Round the palace be great garden full of all the plant that grow in the sea , with diamond for flower .
In a large hall the Groac ' h be lie on a couch of gold .
The pink and white of her face remind you of the shell of her palace , while her long black hair be intertwine with string of coral , and her dress of green silk seem form out of the sea .
At the sight of her Houarn stop , dazzle by her beauty .
` Come in , ' say the Groac ` h , rise to her foot .
` Strangers and handsome youth be always welcome here .
Do not be shy , but tell me how you find your way , and what you want . '
` My name be Houarn , ' he answer , ` Lanillis be my home , and I be try to earn enough money to buy a little cow and a pig to fatten . '
` Well , you can easily get that , ' reply she ; ` it be nothing to worry about .
Come in and enjoy yourself . '
And she beckon him to follow her into a second hall whose floor and wall be form of pearl , while down the side there be table laden with fruit and wine of all kind ; and a he eat and drink , the Groac ' h talk to him and tell him how the treasure he saw come from shipwreck vessel , and be bring to her palace by a magic current of water . '
I do not wonder , ' exclaim Houarn , who now felt quite at home -- ' I do not wonder that the people on the earth have so much to say about you . '
` The rich be always envy . '
` For myself , ' he add , with a laugh , ' I only ask for the half of your wealth . '
` You can have it , if you will , Houarn , ' answer the fairy .
` What do you mean ? '
cry he .
` My husband , Korandon , be dead , ' she reply , ` and if you wish it , I will marry you . '
The young man gaze at her in surprise .
Could any one so rich and so beautiful really wish to be his wife ?
He look at her again , and Bellah be forget a he answer : ' A man would be mad indeed to refuse such an offer .
I can only accept it with joy . '
` Then the sooner it be do the good , ' say the Groac ` h , and give order to her servant .
After that be finish , she beg Houarn to accompany her to a fish-pond at the bottom of the garden .
` Come lawyer , come miller , come tailor , come singer ! '
cry she , hold out a net of steel ; and at each summons a fish appear and jump into the net .
When it be full she go into a large kitchen and throw them all into a golden pot ; but above the bubbling of the water Houarn seem to hear the whispering of little voice .
` Who be it whisper in the golden pot , Groac ` h ? '
he inquire at last .
` It be nothing but the noise of the wood sparkling , ' she answer ; but it do not sound the least like that to Houarn .
` There it be again , ' he say , after a short pause .
` The water be get hot , and it make the fish jump , ' she reply ; but soon the noise grow louder and like cry .
` What be it ? '
ask Houarn , begin to feel uncomfortable .
` Just the cricket on the hearth , ' say she , and break into a song which drown the cry from the pot .
But though Houarn hold his peace , he be not as happy a before .
Something seem to have go wrong , and then he suddenly remember Bellah .
` Is it possible I can have forget her so soon ?
What a wretch I be ! '
he think to himself ; and he remain apart and watch the Groac ' h while she empty the fish into a plate , and bid him eat his dinner while she fetch wine from her cellar in a cave .
Houarn sit down and take out the knife which Bellah have give him , but as soon a the blade touch the fish the enchantment cease , and four men stand before him .
` Houarn , save u , we entreat you , and save yourself too ! '
murmur they , not dare to raise their voice .
` Why , it must have be you who be cry out in the pot just now ! '
exclaim Houarn .
` Yes , it be u , ' they answer .
` Like you , we come to the isle of Lok to seek our fortune , and like you we consent to marry the Groac ` h , and no sooner be the ceremony over than she turn u into fish , a she have do to all our forerunner , who be in the fish-pond still , where you will shortly join them . '
On hear this Houarn leap into the air , a if he already felt himself frizzle in the golden pot .
He rush to the door , hop to escape that way ; but the Groac ` h , who have hear everything , meet him on the threshold .
Instantly she throw the steel net over his head , and the eye of a little green frog peep through the mesh .
` You shall go and play with the rest , ' she say , carry him off to the fish-pond .
It be at this very moment that Bellah , who be skim the milk in the farm dairy , hear the fairy bell tinkle violently .
At the sound she grow pale , for she know it mean that Houarn be in danger ; and , hastily , change the rough dress she wear for her work , she leave the farm with the magic stick in her hand .
Her knee be tremble under her , but she run as fast a she could to the cross road , where she drive her stick into the ground , murmur a she do so a verse her mother have teach her : Little staff of apple-tree , Over the earth and over the sea , Up in the air be guide to me , Everywhere to wander free , and immediately the stick become a smart little horse , with a rosette at each ear and a feather on his forehead .
He stand quite still while Bellah scramble up , then he start off , his pace grow quick and quick , till at length the girl could hardly see the tree and house a they flash past .
But , rapid a the pace be , it be not rapid enough for Bellah , who stoop and say : ` The swallow be less swift than the wind , the wind be less swift than the lightning .
But you , my horse , if you love me , must be swift than them all , for there be a part of my heart that suffers -- the best part of my heart that be in danger . '
And the horse hear her , and gallop like a straw carry along by a tempest till they reach the foot of a rock call the Leap of the Deer .
There he stop , for no horse or mule that ever be bear could climb that rock , and Bellah know it , so she begin to sing again : Horse of Leon , give to me , Over the earth and over the sea , Up in the air be guide to me , Everywhere to wander free , and when she have finish , the horse 's fore leg grow short and spread into wing , his hind leg become claws , feather sprout all over his body , and she sit on the back of a great bird , which bore her to the summit of the rock .
Here she find a nest made of clay and line with dried moss , and in the centre a tiny man , black and wrinkled , who give a cry of surprise at the sight of Bellah .
` Ah !
you be the pretty girl who be to come and save me ! '
` To save you ! '
repeat Bellah .
` But who be you , my little friend ? ' '
I be the husband of the Groac ' h of the isle of Lok , and it be owe to her that I be here . '
` But what be you do in this nest ? ' '
I be sit on six egg of stone , and I shall not be set free till they be hatch . '
On hear this Bellah begin to laugh .
` Poor little cock ! '
she say , ` and how be I to deliver you ? '
` By deliver Houarn , who be in the power of the Groac ` h. ' ` Ah !
tell me how I can manage that , and if I have to walk round the whole of Brittany on my bended knee I will do it ! '
` Well , first you must dress yourself a a young man , and then go and seek the Groac ` h .
When you have find her you must contrive to get hold of the net of steel that hang from her waist , and shut her up in it for ever . '
` But where be I to find a young man 's clothes ? '
ask she . '
I will show you , ' he reply , and a he speak he pull out three of his red hair and blow them away , mutter something the while .
In the twinkling of an eye the four hair change into four tailor , of whom the first carry a cabbage , the second a pair of scissors , the third a needle , and the fourth an iron .
Without wait for order , they sit down in the nest and , cross their leg comfortably , begin to prepare the suit of clothes for Bellah .
With one of the leaf of the cabbage they make her a coat , and another serve for a waistcoat ; but it take two for the wide breech which be then in fashion .
The hat be cut from the heart of the cabbage , and a pair of shoe from the thick stem .
And when Bellah have put them all on you would have take her for a gentleman dress in green velvet , line with white satin .
She thank the little men gratefully , and after a few more instruction , jump on the back of her great bird , and be bear away to the isle of Lok .
Once there , she bid him transform himself back into a stick , and with it in her hand she step into the blue boat , which conduct her to the palace of shell .
The Groac ' h seem overjoyed to see her , and tell her that never before have she behold such a handsome young man .
Very soon she lead her visitor into the great hall , where wine and fruit be always wait , and on the table lay the magic knife , leave there by Houarn .
Unseen by the Groac ` h , Bellah hide it in a pocket of her green coat , and then follow her hostess into the garden , and to the pond which contain the fish , their side shin with a thousand different colour .
` Oh !
what beautiful , beautiful creature ! '
say she .
` I 'm sure I should never be tire of watch them . '
And she sit down on the bank , with her elbow on her knee and her chin in her hand , her eye fix on the fish a they flash past .
` Would you not like to stay here always ? '
ask the Groac ` h ; and Bellah answer that she desire nothing well .
` Then you have only to marry me , ' say the Groac ` h. ` Oh !
do n't say no , for I have fall deeply in love with you . '
` Well , I wo n't say `` No , '' ' reply Bellah , with a laugh , ` but you must promise first to let me catch one of those lovely fish in your net . '
` It be not so easy a it look , ' rejoin the Groac ` h , smile , ` but take it , and try your luck . '
Bellah take the net which the Groac ' h hold out , and , turn rapidly , fling it over the witch 's head .
` Become in body what you be in soul ! '
cry she , and in an instant the lovely fairy of the sea be a toad , horrible to look upon .
She struggle hard to tear the net asunder , but it be no use .
Bellah only draw it the tighter , and , fling the sorceress into a pit , she roll a great stone across the mouth , and leave her .
As she draw near the pond she saw a great procession of fish advance to meet her , cry in hoarse tone : ` This be our lord and master , who have save u from the net of steel and the pot of gold ! '
` And who will restore you to your proper shape , ' say Bellah , draw the knife from her pocket .
But just a she be go to touch the foremost fish , her eye fell on a green frog on his knee beside her , his little paw cross over his little heart .
Bellah felt a if finger be tighten round her throat , but she manage to cry : ` Is this you , my Houarn ?
Is this you ? '
` It be I , ' croak the little frog ; and a the knife touch him he be a man again , and , spring up , he clasp her in his arm .
` But we must not forget the others , ' she say at last , and begin to transform the fish to their proper shape .
There be so many of them that it take quite a long time .
Just a she have finish there arrive the little dwarf from the Deer 's Leap in a car drawn by six cockchafer , which once have be the six stone egg .
` Here I be ! '
he exclaim .
` You have break the spell that hold me , and now come and get your reward , ' and , dismount from his chariot , he lead them down into the cave fill with gold and jewel , and bid Bellah and Houarn take as much a they want .
When their pocket be full , Bellah order her stick to become a winged carriage , large enough to bear them and the men they have rescue back to Lanillis .
There they be marry the next day , but instead of set up housekeep with the little cow and pig to fatten that they have so long wished for , they be able to buy land for mile round for themselves , and give each man who have be deliver from the Groac ' h a small farm , where he live happily to the end of his day .
From ` Le Foyer Breton , ' par E. Souvestre .
The Escape of the Mouse Manawyddan the prince and his friend Pryderi be wanderer , for the brother of Manawyddan have be slay , and his throne take from him .
Very sorrowful be Manawyddan , but Pryderi be stout of heart , and bid him be of good cheer , a he know a way out of his trouble .
` And what may that be ? '
ask Manawyddan .
` It be that thou marry my mother Rhiannon and become lord of the fair land that I will give her for dowry .
Never do any lady have more wit than she , and in her youth none be more lovely ; even yet she be good to look upon . '
` Thou art the best friend that ever a man have , ' say Manawyddan .
` Let u go now to seek Rhiannon , and the land where she dwell . '
Then they set forth , but the news of their come ran swifter still , and Rhiannon and Kieva , wife of Pryderi , make haste to prepare a feast for them .
And Manawyddan find that Pryderi have speak the truth concern his mother , and ask if she would take him for her husband .
Right gladly do she consent , and without delay they be marry , and ride away to the hunt , Rhiannon and Manawyddan , Kieva and Pryderi , and they would not be part from each other by night or by day , so great be the love between them .
One day , when they be return , they be sit out in a green place , and suddenly the crash of thunder strike loudly on their ear , and a wall of mist fell between them , so that they be hide one from the other .
Trembling they sit till the darkness flee and the light shone again upon them , but in the place where they be wont to see cattle , and herd , and dwelling , they behold neither house nor beast , nor man nor smoke ; neither be any one remaining in the green place save these four only .
` Whither have they go , and my host also ? '
cried Manawyddan , and they search the hall , and there be no man , and the castle , and there be none , and in the dwelling that be leave be nothing save wild beast .
For a year these four fed on the meat that Manawyddan and Pryderi kill out hunting , and the honey of the bee that suck the mountain heather .
For a time they desire nothing more , but when the next year begin they grow weary .
` We can not spend our life thus , ' say Manawyddan at last , ` let u go into England and learn some trade by which we may live . '
So they leave Wales , and go to Hereford , and there they make saddle , while Manawyddan fashion blue enamel ornament to put on their trapping .
And so greatly do the townsfolk love these saddle , that no others be buy throughout the whole of Hereford , till the saddler band together and resolve to slay Manawyddan and his companion .
When Pryderi heard of it , he be very wroth , and wish to stay and fight .
But the counsel of Manawyddan prevail , and they move by night to another city .
` What craft shall we follow ? '
ask Pryderi .
` We will make shield , ' answered Manawyddan .
` But do we know anything of that craft ? '
answer Pryderi .
` We will try it , ' say Manawyddan , and they begin to make shield , and fashion them after the shape of the shield they have see ; and these likewise they enamel .
And so greatly do they prosper that no man in the town buy a shield except they have make it , till at length the shield-makers band together a the saddler have do , and resolve to slay them .
But of this they have warning , and by night betook themselves to another town .
` Let u take to make shoe , ' say Manawyddan , ` for there be not any among the shoemaker bold enough to fight u . ' '
I know nothing of make shoe , ' answer Pryderi , who in truth despise so peaceful a craft .
` But I know , ' reply Manawyddan , ` and I will teach thee to stitch .
We will buy the leather ready dress , and will make the shoe from it .
Then straightway he seek the town for the best leather , and for a goldsmith to fashion the clasp , and he himself watch till it be do , so that he might learn for himself .
Soon he become know a ` The Maker of Gold Shoes , ' and prosper so greatly , that as long a one could be buy from him not a shoe be purchase from the shoemaker of the town .
And the craftsman be wroth , and band together to slay them .
` Pryderi , ' say Manawyddan , when he have receive news of it , ` we will not remain in England any longer .
Let u set forth to Dyved . '
So they journey until they come to their land at Narberth .
There they gather their dog round them , and hunt for a year a before .
After that a strange thing happen .
One morning Pryderi and Manawyddan rise up to hunt , and loosen their dog , which run before them , till they come to a small bush .
At the bush , the dog shrink away a if frighten , and return to their master , their hair brisling on their back .
` We must see what be in that bush , ' say Pryderi , and what be in it be a boar , with a skin as white a the snow on the mountain .
And he come out , and make a stand a the dog rush on him , drive on by the men .
Long he stand at bay ; then at last he betook himself to flight , and flee to a castle which be newly build , in a place where no building have ever be know .
Into the castle he run , and the dog after him , and long though their master look and listen , they neither saw nor heard aught concern dog or boar . '
I will go into the castle and get tidings of the dog , ' say Pryderi at last .
` Truly , ' answered Manawyddan , ` thou wouldst do unwisely , for whosoever have cast a spell over this land have set this castle here . ' '
I can not give up my dog , ' reply Pryderi , and to the castle he go .
But within be neither man nor beast ; neither boar nor dog , but only a fountain with marble round it , and on the edge a golden bowl , richly wrought , which please Pryderi greatly .
In a moment he forget about his dog , and go up to the bowl and take hold of it , and his hand stick to the bowl , and his foot to the marble slab , and despair take possession of him .
Till the close of day Manawyddan wait for him , and when the sun be fast sinking , he go home , think that he have stray far .
` Where be thy friend and thy dog ? '
say Rhiannon , and he tell her what have befall Pryderi . '
A good friend hast thou lose , ' answer Rhiannon , and she go up to the castle and through the gate , which be open .
There , in the centre of the courtyard , she behold Pryderi standing , and hasten towards him .
` What dost thou here ? '
she ask , lay her hand on the bowl , and a she speak she too stick fast , and be not able to utter a word .
Then thunder be hear and a veil of darkness descend upon them , and the castle vanish and they with it .
When Kieva , the wife of Pryderi , find that neither her husband nor his mother return to her , she be in such sorrow that she care not whether she live or die .
Manawyddan be grieve also in his heart , and say to her : ` It be not fit that we should stay here , for he have lose our dog and can not get food .
Let u go into England -- it be easy for u to live there . '
So they set forth .
` What craft wilt thou follow ? '
ask Kieva a they go along . '
I shall make shoe a once I do , ' reply he ; and he get all the fine leather in the town and cause gild clasp to be make for the shoe , till everyone flock to buy , and all the shoemaker in the town be idle and band together in anger to kill him .
But luckily Manawyddan get word of it , and he and Kieva leave the town one night and proceed to Narberth , take with him a sheaf of wheat , which he sow in three plot of ground .
And while the wheat be grow up , he hunt and fish , and they have food enough and to spare .
Thus the month pass until the harvest ; and one evening Manawyddan visit the furthest of his field of wheat ; and saw that it be ripe .
` To-morrow I will reap this , ' say he ; but on the morrow when he go to reap the wheat he find nothing but the bare straw .
Filled with dismay he hasten to the second field , and there the corn be ripe and golden .
` To-morrow I will reap this , ' he say , but on the morrow the ear have go , and there be nothing but the bare straw .
` Well , there be still one field leave , ' he say , and when he look at it , it be still fair than the other two .
` To-night I will watch here , ' think he , ` for whosoever carry off the other corn will in like manner take this , and I will know who it be . '
So he hide himself and wait .
The hour slide by , and all be still , so still that Manawyddan well-nigh drop asleep .
But at midnight there arise the loud tumult in the world , and peep out he behold a mighty host of mouse , which could neither be number nor measure .
Each mouse climb up a straw till it bend down with it weight , and then it bite off one of the ear , and carry it away , and there be not one of the straw that have not get a mouse to it .
Full of wrath he rush at the mouse , but he could no more come up with them than if they have be gnat , or bird of the air , save one only which linger behind the rest , and this mouse Manawyddan come up with .
Stooping down he seize it by the tail , and put it in his glove , and tie a piece of string across the opening of the glove , so that the mouse could not escape .
When he enter the hall where Kieva be sit , he light a fire , and hang the glove up on a peg .
` What hast thou there ? '
ask she . '
A thief , ' he answer , ` that I catch rob me . '
` What kind of a thief may it be which thou couldst put in thy glove ? '
say Kieva .
` That I will tell thee , ' he reply , and then he show her how his field of corn have be waste , and how he have watch for the mouse .
` And one be less nimble than the rest , and be now in my glove .
To-morrow I will hang it , and I only wish I have them all . '
` It be a marvel , truly , ' say she , ` yet it would be unseemly for a man of thy dignity to hang a reptile such a this .
Do not meddle with it , but let it go . '
` Woe betide me , ' he cry , ` if I would not hang them all if I could catch them , and such a I have I will hang . '
` Verily , ' say she , ` there be no reason I should succour this reptile , except to prevent discredit unto thee . '
` If I know any cause that I should succour it , I would take thy counsel , ' answered Manawyddan , ` but a I know of none , I be mind to destroy it . '
` Do so then , ' say Kieva .
So he go up a hill and set up two fork on the top , and while he be do this he saw a scholar come towards him , whose clothes be tattered .
Now it be seven year since Manawyddan have see man or beast in that place , and the sight amaze him .
` Good day to thee , my lord , ' say the scholar .
` Good greeting to thee , scholar .
Whence dost thou come ? '
` From sing in England ; but wherefore dost thou ask ? '
` Because for seven year no man hath visit this place . ' '
I wander where I will , ' answer the scholar .
` And what work art thou upon ? ' '
I be about to hang a thief that I catch rob me ! '
` What manner of thief be that ? '
inquire the scholar . '
I see a creature in thy hand like upon a mouse , and ill do it become a man of thy rank to touch a reptile like this .
Let it go free . ' '
I will not let it go free , ' cried Manawyddan . '
I catch it rob me , and it shall suffer the doom of a thief . '
` Lord ! '
say the scholar , ` sooner than see a man like thee at such a work , I would give thee a pound which I have receive a alms to let it go free . ' '
I will not let it go free , neither will I sell it . '
` As thou wilt , lord , ' answer the scholar , and he go his way .
Manawyddan be place the cross-beam on the two fork stick , where the mouse be to hang , when a priest rode past .
` Good-day to thee , lord ; and what art thou do ? ' '
I be hang a thief that I catch rob me . '
` What manner of thief , lord ? ' '
A creature in the form of a mouse .
It have be rob me , and it shall suffer the doom of a thief . '
` Lord , ' say the priest , ` sooner than see thee touch this reptile , I would purchase it freedom . ' '
I will neither sell it nor set it free . '
` It be true that a mouse be worth nothing , but rather than see thee defile thyself with touch such a reptile a this , I will give thee three pound for it . ' '
I will not take any price for it .
It shall be hang a it deserve . '
` Willingly , my lord , if it be thy pleasure . '
And the priest go his way .
Then Manawyddan noose the string about the mouse 's neck , and be about to draw it tight when a bishop , with a great following and horse bear huge pack , come by .
` What work art thou upon ? '
ask the bishop , draw rein .
` Hanging a thief that I catch rob me . '
` But be not that a mouse that I see in thine hand ? '
ask the bishop .
` Yes ; that be the thief , ' answered Manawyddan .
` Well , since I have come at the doom of this reptile , I will ransom it of thee for seven pound , rather than see a man of thy rank touch it .
Loose it , and let it go . ' '
I will not let it loose . ' '
I will give thee four and twenty pound to set it free , ' say the bishop . '
I will not set it free for as much again . '
` If thou wilt not set it free for this , I will give thee all the horse thou seest and the seven load of baggage . ' '
I will not set it free . '
` Then tell me at what price thou wilt loose it , and I will give it . '
` The spell must be take off Rhiannon and Pryderi , ' say Manawyddan .
` That shall be do . '
` But not yet will I loose the mouse .
The charm that have be cast over all my land must be take off likewise . '
` This shall be do also . '
` But not yet will I loose the mouse till I know who she be . '
` She be my wife , ' answer the bishop .
` And wherefore come she to me ? '
ask Manawyddan .
` To despoil thee , ' reply the bishop , ` for it be I who cast the charm over thy land , to avenge Gwawl the son of Clud my friend .
And it be I who throw the spell upon Pryderi to avenge Gwawl for the trick that have be play on him in the game of Badger in the Bag .
And not only be I wroth , but my people likewise , and when it be know that thou wast come to dwell in the land , they beseech me much to change them into mouse , that they might eat thy corn .
The first and the second night it be the men of my own house that destroy thy two field , but on the third night my wife and her lady come to me and beg me to change them also into the shape of mouse , that they might take part in avenge Gwawl .
Therefore I change them .
Yet have she not be ill and slow of foot , thou couldst not have overtake her .
Still , since she be catch , I will restore thee Pryderi and Rhiannon , and will take the charm from off thy land .
I have tell thee who she be ; so now set her free . ' '
I will not set her free , ' answered Manawyddan , 'till thou swear that no vengeance shall be take for his , either upon Pryderi , or upon Rhiannon , or on me . ' '
I will grant thee this boon ; and thou hast do wisely to ask it , for on thy head would have light all the trouble .
Set now my wife free . ' '
I will not set her free till Pryderi and Rhiannon be with me . '
` Behold , here they come , ' say the bishop .
Then Manawyddan hold out his hand and greet Pryderi and Rhiannon , and they seat themselves joyfully on the grass .
` Ah , lord , hast thou not receive all thou didst ask ? '
say the bishop .
` Set now my wife free ! '
` That I will gladly , ' answered Manawyddan , unloose the cord from her neck , and a he do so the bishop strike her with his staff , and she turn into a young woman , the fair that ever be see .
` Look around upon thy land , ' say he , ` and thou wilt see it all till and people , a it be long ago . '
And Manawyddan look , and saw corn grow in the field , and cow and sheep grazing on the hill-side , and hut for the people to dwell in .
And he be satisfy in his soul , but one more question he put to the bishop .
` What spell didst thou lay upon Pryderi and Rhiannon ? '
` Pryderi have have the knocker of the gate of my palace hung about him , and Rhiannon have carry the collar of my ass around her neck , ' say the bishop with a smile .
From the ` Mabinogion . '
The Believing Husbands Once upon a time there dwelt in the land of Erin a young man who be seek a wife , and of all the maiden round about none please him as well a the only daughter of a farmer .
The girl be willing and the father be willing , and very soon they be marry and go to live at the farm .
By and bye the season come when they must cut the peat and pile them up to dry , so that they might have fire in the winter .
So on a fine day the girl and her husband , and the father and his wife all go out upon the moor .
They work hard for many hour , and at length grow hungry , so the young woman be send home to bring them food , and also to give the horse their dinner .
When she go into the stable , she suddenly saw the heavy pack-saddle of the speckle mare just over her head , and she jump and say to herself : ` Suppose that pack-saddle be to fall and kill me , how dreadful it would be ! '
and she sit down just under the pack-saddle she be so much afraid of , and begin to cry .
Now the others out on the moor grow hungry and hungry .
` What can have become of her ? '
ask they , and at length the mother declare that she would wait no longer , and must go and see what have happen .
As the bride be nowhere in the kitchen or the dairy , the old woman go into the stable , where she find her daughter weep bitterly .
` What be the matter , my dove ? '
and the girl answer , between her sob : ` When I come in and saw the pack-saddle over my head , I think how dreadful it would be if it fell and kill me , ' and she cry loud than before .
The old woman strike her hand together : ` Ah , to think of it !
if that be to be , what should I do ? '
and she sit down by her daughter , and they both wring their hand and let their tear flow .
` Something strange must have occur , ' exclaim the old farmer on the moor , who by this time be not only hungry , but cross . '
I must go after them . '
And he go and find them in the stable .
` What be the matter ? '
ask he .
` Oh ! '
reply his wife , ` when our daughter come home , do she not see the pack-saddle over her head , and she think how dreadful it would be if it be to fall and kill her . '
` Ah , to think of it ! '
exclaim he , strike his hand together , and he sit down beside them and weep too .
As soon a night fell the young man return full of hunger , and there they be , all cry together in the stable .
` What be the matter ? '
ask he .
` When thy wife come home , ' answer the farmer , ` she saw the pack-saddle over her head , and she think how dreadful it would be if it be to fall and kill her . '
` Well , but it do n't fall , ' reply the young man , and he go off to the kitchen to get some supper , leave them to cry as long a they like .
The next morning he get up with the sun , and say to the old man and to the old woman and to his wife : ` Farewell : my foot shall not return to the house till I have find other three people as silly a you , ' and he walk away till he come to the town , and see the door of a cottage stand open wide , he enter .
No man be present , but only some woman spin at their wheel .
` You do not belong to this town , ' say he .
` You speak truth , ' they answer , ` nor you either ? ' '
I do not , ' reply he , ` but be it a good place to live in ? '
The woman look at each other .
` The men of the town be so silly that we can make them believe anything we please , ' say they .
` Well , here be a gold ring , ' reply he , ` and I will give it to the one amongst you who can make her husband believe the most impossible thing , ' and he leave them .
As soon a the first husband come home his wife say to him : ` Thou art sick ! '
` Am I ? '
ask he .
` Yes , thou art , ' she answer ; ` take off thy clothes and lie down . '
So he do , and when he be in his bed his wife go to him and say : ` Thou art dead . '
` Oh , be I ? '
ask he .
` Thou art , ' say she ; ` shut thine eye and stir neither hand nor foot . '
And dead he felt sure he be .
Soon the second man come home , and his wife say to him : ` You be not my husband ! '
` Oh , be I not ? '
ask he .
` No , it be not you , ' answer she , so he go away and sleep in the wood .
When the third man arrive his wife give him his supper , and after that he go to bed , just a usual .
The next morning a boy knock at the door , bid him attend the burial of the man who be dead , and he be just go to get up when his wife stop him .
` Time enough , ' say she , and he lay still till he hear the funeral pass the window .
` Now rise , and be quick , ' call the wife , and the man jump out of bed in a great hurry , and begin to look about him .
` Why , where be my clothes ? '
ask he .
` Silly that you be , they be on your back , of course , ' answer the woman .
` Are they ? '
say he .
` They be , ' say she , ` and make haste lest the burying be end before you get there . '
Then off he go , run hard , and when the mourner saw a man come towards them with nothing on but his nightshirt , they forget in their fright what they be there for , and flee to hide themselves .
And the naked man stand alone at the head of the coffin .
Very soon a man come out of the wood and speak to him .
` Do you know me ? '
` Not I , ' answer the naked man . '
I do not know you . '
` But why be you naked ? '
ask the first man .
` Am I naked ?
My wife tell me that I have all my clothes on , ' answer he .
` And my wife tell me that I myself be dead , ' say the man in the coffin .
But at the sound of his voice the two men be so terrify that they run straight home , and the man in the coffin get up and follow them , and it be his wife that gain the gold ring , a he have be sillier than the other two .
From ` West Highland Tales . '
The Hoodie-Crow .
Once there live a farmer who have three daughter , and good useful girl they be , up with the sun , and do all the work of the house .
One morning they all run down to the river to wash their clothes , when a hoodie come round and sit on a tree close by .
` Wilt thou wed me , thou farmer 's daughter ? '
he say to the eldest .
` Indeed I wo n't wed thee , ' she answer , ` an ugly brute be the hoodie . '
And the bird , much offend , spread his wing and fly away .
But the following day he come back again , and say to the second girl : ` Wilt thou wed me , farmer 's daughter ? '
` Indeed I will not , ' answer she , ` an ugly brute be the hoodie . '
And the hoodie be more angry than before , and go away in a rage .
However , after a night 's rest he be in a good temper , and think that he might be more lucky the third time , so back he go to the old place .
` Wilt thou wed me , farmer 's daughter ? '
he say to the young .
` Indeed I will wed thee ; a pretty creature be the hoodie , ' answer she , and on the morrow they be marry . '
I have something to ask thee , ' say the hoodie when they be far away in his own house .
` Wouldst thou rather I should be a hoodie by day and a man by night , or a man by day and a hoodie by night ? '
The girl be surprise at his word , for she do not know that he could be anything but a hoodie at all time .
Still she say nothing of this , and only reply , ' I would rather thou wert a man by day and a hoodie by night , ' And so he be ; and a handsomer man or a more beautiful hoodie never be see .
The girl love them both , and never wish for thing to be different .
By and bye they have a son , and very pleased they both be .
But in the night soft music be hear steal close towards the house , and every man slept , and the mother slept also .
When they wake again it be morning , and the baby be go .
High and low they look for it , but nowhere could they find it , and the farmer , who have come to see his daughter , be greatly grieve , a he fear it might be think that he have steal it , because he do not want the hoodie for a son-in-law .
The next year the hoodie 's wife have another son , and this time a watch be set at every door .
But it be no use .
In vain they determine that , come what might , they would not close their eye ; at the first note of music they all fell asleep , and when the farmer arrive in the morning to see his grandson , he find them all weeping , for while they have sleep the baby have vanish .
Well , the next year it all happen again , and the hoodie 's wife be so unhappy that her husband resolve to take her away to another house he have , and her sister with her for company .
So they set out in a coach which be big enough to hold them , and have not go very far when the hoodie suddenly say : ` You be sure you have not forget anything ? ' '
I have forget my coarse comb , ' answer the wife , feel in her pocket , and a she speak the coach change into a withered faggot , and the man become a hoodie again , and fly away .
The two sister return home , but the wife follow the hoodie .
Sometimes she would see him on a hill-top , and then would hasten after him , hop to catch him .
But by the time she have get to the top of the hill , he would be in the valley on the other side .
When night come , and she be tire , she look about for some place to rest , and glad she be to see a little house full of light straight in front of her , and she hurry towards it as fast a she could .
At the door stand a little boy , and the sight of him fill her heart with pleasure , she do not know why .
A woman come out , and bid her welcome , and set before her food , and give her a soft bed to lie on .
And the hoodie 's wife lay down , and so tired be she , that it seem to her but a moment before the sun rise , and she awake again .
From hill to hill she go after the hoodie , and sometimes she saw him on the top ; but when she get to the top , he have fly into the valley , and when she reach the valley he be on the top of another hill -- and so it happen till night come round again .
Then she look round for some place to rest in , and she behold a little house of light before her , and fast she hurry towards it .
At the door stand a little boy , and her heart be fill with pleasure at the sight of him , she do not know why .
After that a woman bid her enter , and set food before her , and give her a soft bed to lie in .
And when the sun rise she get up , and leave the house , in search of the hoodie .
This day everything befell a on the two other day , but when she reach the small house , the woman bid her keep awake , and if the hoodie fly into the room , to try to seize him .
But the wife have walk far , and be very tired , and strive a she would , she fell sound asleep .
Many hour she sleep , and the hoodie enter through a window , and let fall a ring on her hand .
The girl awoke with a start , and leant forward to grasp him , but he be already fly off , and she only seize a feather from his wing .
And when dawn come , she get up and tell the woman .
` He have go over the hill of poison , ' say she , ` and there you can not follow him without horse-shoes on your hand and foot .
But I will help you .
Put on this suit of men 's clothes , and go down this road till you come to the smithy , and there you can learn to make horse-shoes for yourself . '
The girl thank her , and put on the cloth and go down the road to do her bidding .
So hard do she work , that in a few day she be able to make the horse-shoes .
Early one morning she set out for the hill of poison .
On her hand and foot she go , but even with the horse-shoes on she have to be very careful not to stumble , l some poisoned thorn should enter into her flesh , and she should die .
But when at last she be over , it be only to hear that her husband be to be marry that day to the daughter of a great lord .
Now there be to be a race in the town , and everyone meant to be there , except the stranger who have come over the hill of poison -- everyone , that be , but the cook , who be to make the bridal supper .
Greatly he love race , and sore be his heart to think that one should be run without his see it , so when he behold a woman whom he do not know come along the street , hope spring up in him .
` Will you cook the wedding feast in place of me ? '
he say , ` and I will pay you well when I return from the race . '
Gladly she agree , and cook the feast in a kitchen that look into the great hall , where the company be to eat it .
After that she watch the seat where the bridegroom be sit , and take a plateful of the broth , she drop the ring and the feather into it , and set if herself before him .
With the first spoonful he take up the ring , and a thrill run through him ; in the second he behold the feather and rise from his chair .
` Who have cook this feast ? '
ask he , and the real cook , who have come back from the race , be bring before him .
` He may be the cook , but he do not cook this feast , ' say the bridegroom , and then inquiry be make , and the girl be summon to the great hall .
` That be my married wife , ' he declare , ` and no one else will I have , ' and at that very moment the spell fell off him , and never more would he be a hoodie .
Happy indeed be they to be together again , and little do they mind that the hill of poison take long to cross , for she have to go some way forward , and then throw the horse-shoes back for him to put on .
Still , at last they be over , and they go back the way she have come , and stop at the three house in order to take their little son to their own home .
But the story never say who have steal them , nor what the coarse comb have to do with it .
From ` West Highland Tales . '
The Brownie of the Lake Once upon a time there live in France a man whose name be Jalm Riou .
You might have walk a whole day without meet anyone happier or more contented , for he have a large farm , plenty of money , and above all , a daughter call Barbaik , the most graceful dancer and the best-dressed girl in the whole country side .
When she appear on holiday in her embroidered cap , five petticoat , each one a little short than the other , and shoe with silver buckle , the woman be all fill with envy , but little cared Barbaik what they might whisper behind her back as long a she know that her clothes be fine than anyone else 's and that she have more partner than any other girl .
Now amongst all the young men who want to marry Barbaik , the one whose heart be most set on her be her father 's head man , but a his manner be rough and he be exceedingly ugly she would have nothing to say to him , and , what be bad , often make fun of him with the rest .
Jegu , for that be his name , of course heard of this , and it make him very unhappy .
Still he would not leave the farm , and look for work elsewhere , a he might have do , for then he would never see Barbaik at all , and what be life worth to him without that ?
One evening he be bring back his horse from the field , and stop at a little lake on the way home to let them drink .
He be tire with a long day 's work , and stand with his hand on the mane of one of the animal , wait till they have do , and think all the while of Barbaik , when a voice come out of the gorse close by .
` What be the matter , Jegu ?
You must n't despair yet . '
The young man glance up in surprise , and ask who be there .
` It be I , the brownie of the lake , ' reply the voice .
` But where be you ? '
inquired Jegu .
` Look close , and you will see me among the reed in the form of a little green frog .
I can take , ' he add proudly , ` any shape I choose , and even , which be much harder , be invisible if I want to . '
` Then show yourself to me in the shape in which your family generally appear , ' reply Jegu .
` Certainly , if you wish , ' and the frog jump on the back of one of the horse , and change into a little dwarf , all dress in green .
This transformation rather frighten Jegu , but the brownie bid him have no fear , for he would not do him any harm ; indeed , he hop that Jegu might find him of some use .
` But why should you take all this interest in me ? '
ask the peasant suspiciously .
` Because of a service you do me last winter , which I have never forget , ' answer the little fellow .
` You know , I be sure , that the korigans -LSB- FN # 3 : The spiteful fairy . -RSB-
who dwell in the White Corn country have declare war on my people , because they say that they be the friend of man .
We be therefore oblige to take refuge in distant land , and to hide ourselves at first under different animal shape .
Since that time , partly from habit and partly to amuse ourselves , we have continue to transform ourselves , and it be in this way that I get to know you . '
` How ? '
exclaim Jegu , fill with astonishment .
` Do you remember when you be dig in the field near the river , three month ago , you find a robin redbreast caught in a net ?
` Yes , ' answer Jegu , ' I remember it very well , and I open the net and let him go . '
` Well , I be that robin redbreast , and ever since I have vow to be your friend , and a you want to marry Barbaik , I will prove the truth of what I say by help you to do so . '
` Ah !
my little brownie , if you can do that , there be nothing I wo n't give you , except my soul . '
` Then let me alone , ' rejoin the dwarf , ` and I promise you that in a very few month you shall be master of the farm and of Barbaik . '
` But how be you go to do it ? '
exclaim Jegu wonderingly .
` That be my affair .
Perhaps I may tell you later .
Meanwhile you just eat and sleep , and do n't worry yourself about anything . '
Jegu declare that nothing could be easy , and then take off his hat , he thank the dwarf heartily , and lead his horse back to the farm .
Next morning be a holiday , and Barbaik be awake early than usual , a she wish to get through her work as soon a possible , and be ready to start for a dance which be to be hold some distance off .
She go first to the cow-house , which it be her duty to keep clean , but to her amazement she find fresh straw put down , the rack fill with hay , the cow milk , and the pail stand neatly in a row .
` Of course , Jegu must have do this in the hope of my give him a dance , ' she think to herself , and when she meet him outside the door she stop and thank him for his help .
To be sure , Jegu only reply roughly that he do n't know what she be talk about , but this answer make her feel all the more certain that it be he and nobody else .
The same thing take place every day , and never have the cow-house be so clean nor the cow so fat .
Morning and even Barbaik find her earthen pots full of milk and a pound of butter freshly churn , ornament with leaf .
At the end of a few week she grow so used to this state of affair that she only get up just in time to prepare breakfast .
Soon even this grow to be unnecessary , for a day arrive when , come downstairs , she discover that the house be sweep , the furniture polish , the fire lit , and the food ready , so that she have nothing to do except to ring the great bell which summon the labourer from the field to come and eat it .
This , also , she think be the work of Jegu , and she could not help feeling that a husband of this sort would be very useful to a girl who like to lie in bed and to amuse herself .
Indeed , Barbaik have only to express a wish for it to be satisfy .
If the wind be cold or the sun be hot and she be afraid to go out l her complexion should be spoil , she need only to run down to the spring close by and say softly , ' I should like my churn to be full , and my wet linen to be stretch on the hedge to dry , ' and she need never give another thought to the matter .
If she find the rye bread too hard to bake , or the oven take too long to heat , she just murmur , ' I should like to see my six loaf on the shelf above the bread box , ' and two hour after there they be .
If she be too lazy to walk all the way to market along a dirty road , she would say out loud the night before , ` Why be I not already back from Morlaix with my milk pot empty , my butter bowl inside it , a pound of wild cherry on my wooden plate , and the money I have gain in my apron pocket ? '
and in the morning when she get up , lo and behold !
there be stand at the foot of her bed the empty milk pot with the butter bowl inside , the black cherry on the wooden plate , and six new piece of silver in the pocket of her apron .
And she believe that all this be owe to Jegu , and she could no longer do without him , even in her thought .
When thing have reach this pas , the brownie tell the young man that he have well ask Barbaik to marry him , and this time the girl do not turn rudely away , but listen patiently to the end .
In her eye he be a ugly and awkward a ever , but he would certainly make a most useful husband , and she could sleep every morning till breakfast time , just like a young lady , and a for the rest of the day , it would not be half long enough for all she mean to do .
She would wear the beautiful dress that come when she wish for them , and visit her neighbour , who would be die of envy all the while , and she would be able to dance as much a she wish .
Jegu would always be there to work for her and save for her , and watch over her .
So , like a well-brought-up girl , Barbaik answer that it should be a her father pleased , know quite well that old Riou have often say that after he be dead there be no one so capable of carry on the farm .
The marriage take place the follow month , and a few day later the old man die quite suddenly .
Now Jegu have everything to see to himself , and somehow it do not seem so easy a when the farmer be alive .
But once more the brownie step in , and be good than ten labourer .
It be he who plough and sow and reap , and if , a happen , occasionally , it be needful to get the work do quickly , the brownie call in some of his friend , and as soon a it be light a host of little dwarf might have be see in the field , busy with hoe , fork or sickle .
But by the time the people be about all be finish , and the little fellow have disappear .
And all the payment the brownie ever ask for be a bowl of broth .
From the very day of her marriage Barbaik have note with surprise and rage that thing cease to be do for her a they have be do all the week and month before .
She complain to Jegu of his laziness , and he only star at her , not understand what she be talk about .
But the brownie , who be stand by , burst out laughing , and confess that all the good office she speak of have be perform by him , for the sake of Jegu , but that now he have other business to do , and it be high time that she look after her house herself .
Barbaik be furious .
Each morning when she be oblige to get up before dawn to milk the cow and go to market , and each evening when she have to sit up till midnight in order to churn the butter , her heart be fill with rage against the brownie who have cause her to expect a life of ease and pleasure .
But when she look at Jegu and behold his red face , squint eye , and untidy hair , her anger be double .
` If it have not be for you , you miserable dwarf ! '
she would say between her teeth , ` if it have not be for you I should never have marry that man , and I should still have be go to dance , where the young men would have bring me present of nut and cherry , and tell me that I be the pretty girl in the parish .
While now I can receive no present except from my husband .
I can never dance , except with my husband .
Oh , you wretched dwarf , I will never , never forgive you ! '
In spite of her fierce word , no one know good than Barbaik how to put her pride in her pocket when it suit her , and after receive an invitation to a wedding , she beg the brownie to get her a horse to ride there .
To her great joy he consent , bid her set out for the city of the dwarf and to tell them exactly what she want .
Full of excitement , Barbaik start on her journey .
It be not long , and when she reach the town she go straight to the dwarf , who be hold counsel in a wide green place , and say to them , ` Listen , my friend !
I have come to beg you to lend me a black horse , with eye , a mouth , ear , bridle and saddle . '
She have hardly speak when the horse appear , and mount on his back she start for the village where the wedding be to be hold .
At first she be so delighted with the chance of a holiday from the work which she hat , that she notice nothing , but very soon it strike her a odd that a she pass along the road full of people they all laugh a they look at her horse .
At length she catch some word utter by one man to another .
` Why , the farmer 's wife have sell her horse 's tail ! '
and turn in her saddle .
Yes ; it be true .
Her horse have no tail !
She have forget to ask for one , and the wicked dwarf have carry out her order to the letter !
` Well , at any rate , I shall soon be there , ' she think , and shake the rein , try to urge the horse to a gallop .
But it be of no use ; he decline to move out of a walk ; and she be force to hear all the joke that be make upon her .
In the evening she return to the farm more angry than ever , and quite determine to revenge herself on the brownie whenever she have the chance , which happen to be very soon .
It be the spring , and just the time of year when the dwarf hold their fete , so one day the brownie ask Jegu if he might bring his friend to have supper in the great barn , and whether he would allow them to dance there .
Of course , Jegu be only too pleased to be able to do anything for the brownie , and he order Barbaik to spread her best table-cloths in the barn , and to make a quantity of little loaf and pancake , and , besides , to keep all the milk give by the cow that morning .
He expect she would refuse , a he know she hat the dwarf , but she say nothing , and prepare the supper a he have bid her .
When all be ready , the dwarf , in new green suit , come bustling in , very happy and merry , and take their seat at the table .
But in a moment they all spring up with a cry , and run away scream , for Barbaik have place pan of hot coal under their foot , and all their poor little toe be burnt .
` You wo n't forget that in a hurry , ' she say , smile grimly to herself , but in a moment they be back again with large pot of water , which they pour on the fire .
Then they join hand and dance round it , sing : Wicked traitress , Barne Riou , Our poor toe be burn by you ; Now we hurry from your hall -- Bad luck light upon you all .
That even they leave the country for ever , and Jegu , without their help , grow poor and poor , and at last died of misery , while Barbaik be glad to find work in the market of Morlaix .
From ` Le Foyer Breton , ' par E. Souvestre .
The Winning of Olwen There be once a king and queen who have a little boy , and they call his name Kilweh .
The queen , his mother , fell ill soon after his birth , and a she could not take care of him herself she send him to a woman she know up in the mountain , so that he might learn to go out in all weather , and bear heat and cold , and grow tall and strong .
Kilweh be quite happy with his nurse , and run race and climb hill with the child who be his playfellow , and in the winter , when the snow lay on the ground , sometimes a man with a harp would stop and beg for shelter , and in return would sing them song of strange thing that have happen in the year go by .
But long before this change have take place in the court of Kilweh 's father .
Soon after she have send her baby away the queen become much bad , and at length , see that she be go to die , she call her husband to her and say : ` Never again shall I rise from this bed , and by and bye thou wilt take another wife .
But l she should make thee forget thy son , I charge thee that thou take not a wife until thou see a briar with two blossom upon my grave . '
And this he promise her .
Then she far bid him to see to her grave that nothing might grow thereon .
This likewise he promise her , and soon she die , and for seven year the king send a man every morning to see that nothing be grow on the queen 's grave , but at the end of seven year he forget .
One day when the king be out hunt he ride past the place where the queen lay bury , and there he saw a briar grow with two blossom on it .
` It be time that I take a wife , ' say he , and after long look he find one .
But he do not tell her about his son ; indeed he hardly remember that he have one till she hear it at last from an old woman whom she have go to visit .
And the new queen be very pleased , and send messenger to fetch the boy , and in his father 's court he stay , while the year go by till one day the queen tell him that a prophecy have foretell that he be to win for his wife Olwen the daughter of Yspaddaden Penkawr .
When he hear this Kilweh felt proud and happy .
Surely he must be a man now , he think , or there would be no talk of a wife for him , and his mind dwell all day upon his promised bride , and what she would be like when he behold her .
` What aileth thee , my son ? '
ask his father at last , when Kilweh have forget something he have be bid to do , and Kilweh blush red a he answer : ` My stepmother say that none but Olwen , the daughter of Yspaddaden Penkawr , shall be my wife . '
` That will be easily fulfil , ' reply his father .
` Arthur the king be thy cousin .
Go therefore unto him and beg him to cut thy hair , and to grant thee this boon . '
Then the youth prick forth upon a dapple grey horse of four year old , with a bridle of link gold , and gold upon his saddle .
In his hand he bore two spear of silver with head of steel ; a war-horn of ivory be sling round his shoulder , and by his side hang a golden sword .
Before him be two brindled white-breasted greyhound with collar of ruby round their neck , and the one that be on the left side bound across to the right side , and the one on the right to the left , and like two sea-swallows sport round him .
And his horse cast up four sod with his four hoof , like four swallow in the air about his head , now above , now below .
About him be a robe of purple , and an apple of gold be at each corner , and every one of the apple be of the value of a hundred cow .
And the blade of grass bent not beneath him , so light be his horse 's foot a he journey toward the gate of Arthur 's palace .
` Is there a porter ? '
cry Kilweh , look round for someone to open the gate .
` There be ; and I be Arthur 's porter every first day of January , ' answer a man come out to him .
` The rest of the year there be other porter , and among them Pennpingyon , who go upon his head to save his foot . '
` Well , open the portal , I say . '
` No , that I may not do , for none can enter save the son of a king or a pedlar who have good to sell .
But elsewhere there will be food for thy dog and hay for thy horse , and for thee collops cook and pepper , and sweet wine shall be serve in the guest chamber . '
` That will not do for me , ' answer Kilweh .
` If thou wilt not open the gate I will send up three shout that shall be hear from Cornwall unto the north , and yet again to Ireland . '
` Whatsoever clamour thou mayest make , ' spake Glewlwyd the porter , ` thou shalt not enter until I first go and speak with Arthur . '
Then Glewlwyd go into the hall , and Arthur say to him : ` Hast thou news from the gate ? '
and the porter answer : ` Far have I travel , both in this island and elsewhere , and many kingly men have I see ; but never yet have I behold one equal in majesty to him who now stand at the door . '
` If walking thou didst enter here , return thou running , ' reply Arthur , ` and let everyone that open and shut the eye show him respect and serve him , for it be not meet to keep such a man in the wind and rain . '
So Glewlwyd unbar the gate and Kilweh rode in upon his charger .
` Greeting unto thee , O ruler of this land , ' cry he , ` and greet no less to the low than to the high . '
` Greeting to thee also , ' answer Arthur .
` Sit thou between two of my warrior , and thou shalt have minstrel before thee and all that belong to one born to be a king , while thou remainest in my palace . ' '
I be not come , ' reply Kilweh , ` for meat and drink , but to obtain a boon , and if thou grant it me I will pay it back , and will carry thy praise to the four wind of heaven .
But if thou wilt not grant it to me , then I will proclaim thy discourtesy wherever thy name be know . '
` What thou askest that shalt thou receive , ' say Arthur , ` as far a the wind dry and the rain moistens , and the sun revolves and the sea encircles and the earth extend .
Save only my ship and my mantle , my word and my lance , my shield and my dagger , and Guinevere my wife . ' '
I would that thou bless my hair , ' spake Kilweh , and Arthur answer : ` That shall be grant thee . '
Forthwith he bid his men fetch him a comb of gold and a scissors with loop of silver , and he comb the hair of Kilweh his guest .
` Tell me who thou art , ' he say , ` for my heart warm to thee , and I feel thou art come of my blood . ' '
I be Kilweh , son of Kilydd , ' reply the youth .
` Then my cousin thou art in truth , ' reply Arthur , ` and whatsoever boon thou mayest ask thou shalt receive . '
` The boon I crave be that thou mayest win for me Olwen , the daughter of Yspaddaden Penkawr , and this boon I seek likewise at the hand of thy warrior .
From Sol , who can stand all day upon one foot ; from Ossol , who , if he be to find himself on the top of the high mountain in the world , could make it into a level plain in the beat of a bird 's wing ; from Cluse , who , though he be bury under the earth , could yet hear the ant leave her nest fifty mile away : from these and from Kai and from Bedwyr and from all thy mighty men I crave this boon . ' '
O Kilweh , ' say Arthur , ` never have I heard of the maiden of whom thou speakest , nor of her kindred , but I will send messenger to seek her if thou wilt give me time . '
` From this night to the end of the year right willingly will I grant thee , ' reply Kilweh ; but when the end of the year come and the messenger return Kilweh be wroth , and speak rough word to Arthur .
It be Kai , the bold of the warrior and the swiftest of foot -- he would could pass nine night without sleep , and nine day beneath the water -- that answer him : ` Rash youth that thou art , darest thou speak thus to Arthur ?
Come with u , and we will not part company till we have win that maiden , or till thou confess that there be none such in the world . '
Then Arthur summon his five best men and bid them go with Kilweh .
There be Bedwyr the one-handed , Kai 's comrade and brother in arm , the swift man in Britain save Arthur ; there be Kynddelig , who know the path in a land where he have never be as surely a he do those of his own country ; there be Gwrhyr , that could speak all tongue ; and Gwalchmai the son of Gwyar , who never return till he have gain what he seek ; and last of all there be Menw , who could weave a spell over them so that none might see them , while they could see everyone .
So these seven journey together till they reach a vast open plain in which be a fair castle .
But though it seem so close it be not until the evening of the third day that they really draw near to it , and in front of it a flock of sheep be spread , so many in number that there seem no end to them .
A shepherd stood on a mound watching over them , and by his side be a dog , as large a a horse nine winter old .
` Whose be this castle , O herdsman ? '
ask the knight .
` Stupid be ye truly , ' answer the herdsman .
` All the world know that this be the castle of Yspaddaden Penkawr . '
` And who art thou ? ' '
I be call Custennin , brother of Yspaddaden , and ill have he treat me .
And who be you , and what do you here ? '
` We come from Arthur the king , to seek Olwen the daughter of Yspaddaden , ' but at this news the shepherd give a cry : ' O men , be warn and turn back while there be yet time .
Others have go on that quest , but none have escape to tell the tale , ' and he rise to his foot a if to leave them .
Then Kilweh hold out to him a ring of gold , and he try to put it on his finger , but it be too small , so he place it in his glove , and go home and give it to his wife .
` Whence come this ring ? '
ask she , ` for such good luck be not wont to befall thee . '
` The man to whom this ring belong thou shalt see here in the evening , ' answer the shepherd ; ` he be Kilweh , son of Kilydd , cousin to king Arthur , and he have come to seek Olwen . '
And when the wife heard that she know that Kilweh be her nephew , and her heart yearn after him , half with joy at the thought of see him , and half with sorrow for the doom she fear .
Soon they hear step approach , and Kai and the rest enter into the house and ate and drank .
After that the woman open a chest , and out of it come a youth with curl yellow hair .
` It be a pity to hide him thus , ' say Gwrhyr , ` for well I know that he have do no evil . '
` Three and twenty of my son have Yspaddaden slain , and I have no more hope of save this one , ' reply she , and Kai be full of sorrow and answer : ` Let him come with me and be my comrade , and he shall never be slain unless I be slain also . '
And so it be agree .
` What be your errand here ? '
ask the woman .
` We seek Olwen the maiden for this youth , ' answered Kai ; ` do she ever come hither so that she may be see ? '
` She come every Saturday to wash her hair , and in the vessel where she wash she leave all her ring , and never do she so much a send a messenger to fetch them . '
` Will she come if she be bidden ? '
ask Kai , pondering .
` She will come ; but unless you pledge me your faith that you will not harm her I will not fetch her . '
` We pledge it , ' say they , and the maiden come .
A fair sight be she in a robe of flame-coloured silk , with a collar of ruddy gold about her neck , bright with emerald and ruby .
More yellow be her head than the flower of the broom , and her skin be white than the foam of the wave , and fairer be her hand than the blossom of the wood anemone .
Four white trefoil spring up where she tread , and therefore be she call Olwen .
She enter , and sit down on a bench beside Kilweh , and he spake to her : ` Ah , maiden , since first I hear thy name I have love thee -- wilt thou not come away with me from this evil place ? '
` That I can not do , ' answer she , ` for I have give my word to my father not to go without his knowledge , for his life will only last till I be betroth .
Whatever be , must be , but this counsel I will give you .
Go , and ask me of my father , and whatsoever he shall require of thee grant it , and thou shalt win me ; but if thou deny him anything thou wilt not obtain me , and it will be well for thee if thou escape with thy life . '
` All this I promise , ' say he .
So she return to the castle , and all Arthur 's men go after her , and enter the hall .
` Greeting to thee , Yspaddaden Penkawr , ' say they .
` We come to ask thy daughter Olwen for Kilweh , son of Kilydd . '
` Come hither to-morrow and I will answer you , ' reply Yspaddaden Penkawr , and a they rise to leave the hall he catch up one of the three poison dart that lay beside him and fling it in their midst .
But Bedwyr saw and catch it , and fling it back so hard that it pierce the knee of Yspaddaden . '
A gentle son-in-law , truly ! '
he cry , writhe with pain . '
I shall ever walk the bad for this rudeness .
Cursed be the smith who forge it , and the anvil on which it be wrought ! '
That night the men sleep in the house of Custennin the herdsman , and the next day they proceed to the castle , and enter the hall , and say : ` Yspaddaden Penkawr , give u thy daughter and thou shalt keep her dower .
And unless thou wilt do this we will slay thee . '
` Her four great grandmother and her four great grandfather yet live , ' answer Yspaddaden Penkawr ; ` it be needful that I take counsel with them . '
` Be it so ; we will go to meat , ' but a they turn he take up the second dart that lay by his side and cast it after them .
And Menw catch it , and fling it at him , and wound him in the chest , so that it come out at his back . '
A gentle son-in-law , truly ! '
cry Yspaddaden , ` the iron pain me like the bite of a horse-leech .
Cursed be the hearth whereon it be heat , and the smith who form it ! '
The third day Arthur 's men return to the palace into the presence of Yspaddaden .
` Shoot not at me again , ' say he , ` unless you desire death .
But lift up my eyebrow , which have fall over my eye , that I may see my son-in-law . '
Then they arise , and a they do so Yspaddaden Penkawr take the third poisoned dart and cast it at them .
And Kilweh catch it , and fling it back , and it pass through his eyeball , and come out on the other side of his head . '
A gentle son-in-law , truly !
Cursed be the fire in which it be forge and the man who fashion it ! '
The next day Arthur 's men come again to the palace and say : ` Shoot not at u any more unless thou desirest more pain than even now thou hast , but give u thy daughter without more word . '
` Where be he that seek my daughter ?
Let him come hither so that I may see him . '
And Kilweh sit himself in a chair and speak face to face with him .
` Is it thou that seekest my daughter ? '
` It be I , ' answer Kilweh .
` First give me thy word that thou wilt do nothing towards me that be not just , and when thou hast win for me that which I shall ask , then thou shalt wed my daughter . ' '
I promise right willingly , ' say Kilweh .
` Name what thou wilt . '
` Seest thou yonder hill ?
Well , in one day it shall be root up and plough and sow , and the grain shall ripen , and of that wheat I will bake the cake for my daughter 's wedding . '
` It will be easy for me to compass this , although thou mayest deem it will not be easy , ' answer Kilweh , thinking of Ossol , under whose foot the high mountain become straightway a plain , but Yspaddaden pay no heed , and continue : ` Seest thou that field yonder ?
When my daughter be bear nine bushel of flax be sown therein , and not one blade have spring up .
I require thee to sow fresh flax in the ground that my daughter may wear a veil spun from it on the day of her wedding . '
` It will be easy for me to compass this . '
` Though thou compass this there be that which thou wilt not compass .
For thou must bring me the basket of Gwyddneu Garanhir which will give meat to the whole world .
It be for thy wedding feast .
Thou must also fetch me the drinking-horn that be never empty , and the harp that never cease to play until it be bidden .
Also the comb and scissors and razor that lie between the two ear of Trwyth the boar , so that I may arrange my hair for the wedding .
And though thou get this yet there be that which thou wilt not get , for Trwyth the boar will not let any man take from him the comb and the scissors , unless Drudwyn the whelp hunt him .
But no leash in the world can hold Drudwyn save the leash of Cant Ewin , and no collar will hold the leash except the collar of Canhastyr . '
` It will be easy for me to compass this , though thou mayest think it will not be easy , ' Kilweh answer him .
` Though thou get all these thing yet there be that which thou wilt not get .
Throughout the world there be none that can hunt with this dog save Mabon the son of Modron .
He be take from his mother when three night old , and it be not know where he now be , nor whether he be live or dead , and though thou find him yet the boar will never be slay save only with the sword of Gwrnach the giant , and if thou obtain it not neither shalt thou obtain my daughter . '
` Horses shall I have , and knight from my lord Arthur .
And I shall gain thy daughter , and thou shalt lose thy life . '
The speech of Kilweh the son of Kilydd with Yspaddaden Penkawr be end .
Then Arthur 's men set forth , and Kilweh with them , and journeyed till they reach the large castle in the world , and a black man come out to meet them .
` Whence comest thou , O man ? '
ask they , ` and whose be that castle ? '
` That be the castle of Gwrnach the giant , a all the world know , ' answer the man , ` but no guest ever return thence alive , and none may enter the gate except a craftsman , who bring his trade . '
But little do Arthur 's men heed his warning , and they go straight to the gate .
` Open ! '
cry Gwrhyr . '
I will not open , ' reply the porter .
` And wherefore ? '
ask Kai .
` The knife be in the meat , and the drink be in the horn , and there be revelry in the hall of Gwrnach the giant , and save for a craftsman who bring his trade the gate will not be open to-night . '
` Verily , then , I may enter , ' say Kai , ` for there be no good burnisher of sword than I. ' ` This will I tell Gwrnach the giant , and I will bring thee his answer . '
` Bid the man come before me , ' cried Gwrnach , when the porter have tell his tale , ` for my sword stand much in need of polish , ' so Kai pass in and salute Gwrnach the giant .
` Is it true what I hear of thee , that thou canst burnish sword ? '
` It be true , ' answer Kai .
Then be the sword of Gwrnach bring to him .
` Shall it be burnish white or blue ? '
say Kai , take a whetstone from under his arm .
` As thou wilt , ' answer the giant , and speedily do Kai polish half the sword .
The giant marvel at his skill , and say : ` It be a wonder that such a man a thou shouldst be without a companion . ' '
I have a companion , noble sir , but he have no skill in this art . '
` What be his name ? '
ask the giant .
` Let the porter go forth , and I will tell him how he may know him .
The head of his lance will leave it shaft , and draw blood from the wind , and descend upon it shaft again . '
So the porter open the gate and Bedwyr enter .
Now there be much talk amongst those who remain without when the gate close upon Bedwyr , and Goreu , son of Custennin , prevail with the porter , and he and his companion get in also and hide themselves .
By this time the whole of the sword be polish , and Kai give it into the hand of Gwrnach the giant , who felt it and say : ` Thy work be good ; I be content . '
Then say Kai : ` It be thy scabbard that hath rust thy sword ; give it to me that I may take out the wooden side of it and put in new one . '
And he take the scabbard in one hand and the sword in the other , and come and stand behind the giant , a if he would have sheathe the sword in the scabbard .
But with it he strike a blow at the head of the giant , and it roll from his body .
After that they despoil the castle of it gold and jewel , and return , bear the sword of the giant , to Arthur 's court .
They tell Arthur how they have speed , and they all take counsel together , and agree that they must set out on the quest for Mabon the son of Modron , and Gwrhyr , who know the language of beast and of bird , go with them .
SO they journey until they come to the nest of an ousel , and Gwrhyr speak to her .
` Tell me if thou knowest aught of Mabon the son of Modron , who be take when three night old from between his mother and the wall . '
And the ousel answer : ` When I first come here I be a young bird , and there be a smith 's anvil in this place .
But from that time no work have be do upon it , save that every evening I have peck at it , till now there be not so much a the size of a nut remain thereof .
Yet all that time I have never once heard of the man you name .
Still , there be a race of beast old than I , and I will guide you to them . '
So the ousel fly before them , till she reach the stag of Redynvre ; but when they inquire of the stag whether he know aught of Mabon he shake his head .
` When first I come hither , ' say he , ` the plain be bare save for one oak sapling , which grow up to be an oak with a hundred branch .
All that be leave of that oak be a withered stump , but never once have I heard of the man you name .
Nevertheless , a you be Arthur 's men , I will guide you to the place where there be an animal old than I ' ; and the stag run before them till he reach the owl of Cwm Cawlwyd .
But when they inquire of the owl if he know aught of Mabon he shake his head .
` When first I come hither , ' say he , ` the valley be a wooded glen ; then a race of men come and root it up .
After that there grow a second wood , and then a third , which you see .
Look at my wing also -- be they not wither stump ?
Yet until to-day I have never hear of the man you name .
Still , I will guide you to the old animal in the world , and the one that have travel most , the eagle of Gwern Abbey . '
And he fly before them , as fast a his old wing would carry him , till he reach the eagle of Gwern Abbey , but when they inquire of the eagle whether he know aught of Mabon he shake his head .
` When I first come hither , ' say the eagle , ` there be a rock here , and every evening I peck at the star from the top of it .
Now , behold , it be not even a span high !
But only once have I heard of the man you name , and that be when I go in search of food as far a Llyn Llyw .
I swoop down upon a salmon , and strike my claw into him , but he draw me down under water till scarcely could I escape him .
Then I summon all my kindred to destroy him , but he make peace with me , and I take fifty fish spear from his back .
Unless he may know something of the man whom you seek I can not tell who may .
But I will guide you to the place where he be . '
So they follow the eagle , who fly before them , though so high be he in the sky , it be often hard to mark his flight .
At length he stop above a deep pool in a river .
` Salmon of Llyn Llyw , ' he call , ' I have come to thee with an embassy from Arthur to inquire if thou knowest aught concern Mabon the son of Modron . '
And the salmon answer : ` As much a I know I will tell thee .
With every tide I go up the river , till I reach the wall of Gloucester , and there have I find such wrong a I never find elsewhere .
And that you may see that what I say be true let two of you go thither on my shoulder . '
So Kai and Gwrhyr go upon the shoulder of the salmon , and be carry under the wall of the prison , from which proceed the sound of great weeping .
` Who be it that thus lament in this house of stone ? '
` It be I , Mabon the son of Modron . '
` Will silver or gold bring thy freedom , or only battle and fight ? '
ask Gwrhyr again .
` By fight alone shall I be set free , ' say Mabon .
Then they send a messenger to Arthur to tell him that Mabon be find , and he bring all his warrior to the castle of Gloucester and fell fiercely upon it ; while Kai and Bedwyr go on the shoulder of the salmon to the gate of the dungeon , and break it down and carry away Mabon .
And he now be free return home with Arthur .
After this , on a certain day , a Gwythyr be walk across a mountain he hear a grievous cry , and he hasten towards it .
In a little valley he saw the heather burning and the fire spread fast towards the anthill , and all the ant be hurry to and fro , not know whither to go .
Gwythyr have pity on them , and put out the fire , and in gratitude the ant bring him the nine bushel of flax seed which Yspaddaden Penkawr require of Kilweh .
And many of the other marvel be do likewise by Arthur and his knight , and at last it come to the fight with Trwyth the board , to obtain the comb and the scissors and the razor that lay between his ear .
But hard be the boar to catch , and fiercely do he fight when Arthur 's men give him battle , so that many of them be slain .
Up and down the country go Trwyth the boar , and Arthur follow after him , till they come to the Severn sea .
There three knight catch his foot unawares and plunge him into the water , while one snatch the razor from him , and another seize the scissors .
But before they lay hold of the comb he have shake them all off , and neither man nor horse nor dog could reach him till he come to Cornwall , whither Arthur have swear he should not go .
Thither Arthur follow after him with his knight , and if it have be hard to win the razor and the scissors , the struggle for the comb be fiercer still , but at length Arthur prevail , and the boar be drive into the sea .
And whether he be drown or where he go no man know to this day .
In the end all the marvel be do , and Kilweh set forward , and with him Goreu , the son of Custennin , to Yspaddaden Penkawr , bear in their hand the razor , the scissors and the comb , and Yspaddaden Penkawr be shave by Kaw .
` Is thy daughter mine now ? '
ask Kilweh .
` She be thine , ' answer Yspaddaden , ` but it be Arthur and none other who have win her for thee .
Of my own free will thou shouldst never have have her , for now I must lose my life . '
And a he spake Goreu the son of Custennin cut off his head , a if have be ordain , and Arthur 's host return each man to his own country .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Orange_Fairy_Book.txt.out
THE ORANGE FAIRY BOOK The Story of the Hero Makoma From the Senna -LRB- Oral Tradition -RRB- Once upon a time , at the town of Senna on the bank of the Zambesi , be bear a child .
He be not like other child , for he be very tall and strong ; over his shoulder he carry a big sack , and in his hand an iron hammer .
He could also speak like a grown man , but usually he be very silent .
One day his mother say to him : ` My child , by what name shall we know you ? '
And he answer : ` Call all the head men of Senna here to the river 's bank . '
And his mother call the head men of the town , and when they have come he lead them down to a deep black pool in the river where all the fierce crocodile live . '
O great men ! '
he say , while they all listen , ` which of you will leap into the pool and overcome the crocodile ? '
But no one would come forward .
So he turn and spring into the water and disappear .
The people hold their breath , for they think : ` Surely the boy be bewitch and throw away his life , for the crocodile will eat him ! '
Then suddenly the ground tremble , and the pool , heave and swirl , become red with blood , and presently the boy rise to the surface swam on shore .
But he be no longer just a boy !
He be strong than any man and very tall and handsome , so that the people shout with gladness when they saw him .
` Now , O my people ! '
he cry , wave his hand , ` you know my name -- I be Makoma , `` the Greater '' ; for have I not slay the crocodile into the pool where none would venture ? '
Then he say to his mother : ` Rest gently , my mother , for I go to make a home for myself and become a hero . '
Then , enter his hut he take Nu-endo , his iron hammer , and throw the sack over his shoulder , he go away .
Makoma cross the Zambesi , and for many moon he wander towards the north and west until he come to a very hilly country where , one day , he meet a huge giant making mountain .
` Greeting , ' shout Makoma , ` you be you ? ' '
I be Chi-eswa-mapiri , who make the mountain , ' answer the giant ; ` and who be you ? ' '
I be Makoma , which signify `` great , '' ' answer he .
` Greater than who ? '
ask the giant .
` Greater than you ! '
answer Makoma .
The giant give a roar and rush upon him .
Makoma say nothing , but swing his great hammer , Nu-endo , he strike the giant upon the head .
He strike him so hard a blow that the giant shrank into quite a little man , who fell upon his knee say : ` You be indeed great than I , O Makoma ; take me with you to be your slave ! '
So Makoma pick him up and drop him into the sack that he carry upon his back .
He be great than ever now , for all the giant 's strength have go into him ; and he resume his journey , carry his burden with as little difficulty a an eagle might carry a hare .
Before long he come to a country break up with huge stone and immense clod of earth .
Looking over one of the heap he saw a giant wrapped in dust drag out the very earth and hurl it in handful on either side of him .
` Who be you , ' cried Makoma , ` that pull up the earth in this way ? ' '
I be Chi-dubula-taka , ' say he , ` and I be make the river-beds . '
` Do you know who I be ? '
say Makoma . '
I be he that be call `` great '' ! '
` Greater than who ? '
thunder the giant .
` Greater than you ! '
answer Makoma .
With a shout , Chi-dubula-taka seize a great clod of earth and launch it at Makoma .
But the hero have his sack hold over his left arm and the stone and earth fell harmlessly upon it , and , tightly grip his iron hammer , he rush in and strike the giant to the ground .
Chi-dubula-taka grovel before him , all the while grow small and small ; and when he have become a convenient size Makoma pick him up and put him into the sack beside Chi-eswa-mapiri .
He go on his way even great than before , a all the river-maker 's power have become his ; and at last he come to a forest of bao-babs and thorn tree .
He be astonish at their size , for every one be full grown and large than any tree he have ever see , and close by he saw Chi-gwisa-miti , the giant who be plant the forest .
Chi-gwisa-miti be tall than either of his brother , but Makoma be not afraid , and call out to him : ` Who be you , O Big One ? '
` I , ' say the giant , ` be Chi-gwisa-miti , and I be plant these bao-babs and thorn a food for my child the elephant . '
` Leave off ! '
shout the hero , ` for I be Makoma , and would like to exchange a blow with thee ! '
The giant , pluck up a monster bao-bab by the root , strike heavily at Makoma ; but the hero sprang aside , and a the weapon sink deep into the soft earth , whirl Nu-endo the hammer round his head and fell the giant with one blow .
So terrible be the stroke that Chi-gwisa-miti shrivel up a the other giant have do ; and when he have get back his breath he beg Makoma to take him a his servant .
` For , ' say he , ` it be honourable to serve a man so great a thou . '
Makoma , after place him in his sack , proceed upon his journey , and travel for many day he at last reach a country so barren and rocky that not a single living thing grow upon it -- everywhere reign grim desolation .
And in the midst of this dead region he find a man eat fire .
` What be you do ? '
demand Makoma . '
I be eat fire , ' answer the man , laugh ; ` and my name be Chi-idea-moto , for I be the flame-spirit , and can waste and destroy what I like . '
` You be wrong , ' say Makoma ; ` for I be Makoma , who be `` great '' than you -- and you can not destroy me ! '
The fire-eater laugh again , and blow a flame at Makoma .
But the hero sprang behind a rock -- just in time , for the ground upon which he have be stand be turn to melt glass , like an overbaked pot , by the heat of the flame-spirit 's breath .
Then the hero fling his iron hammer at Chi-idea-moto , and , strike him , it knock him helpless ; so Makoma place him in the sack , Woro-nowu , with the other great men that he have overcome .
And now , truly , Makoma be a very great hero ; for he have the strength to make hill , the industry to lead river over dry waste , foresight and wisdom in plant tree , and the power of produce fire when he wish .
Wandering on he arrive one day at a great plain , well water and full of game ; and in the very middle of it , close to a large river , be a grassy spot , very pleasant to make a home upon .
Makoma be so delighted with the little meadow that he sit down under a large tree and remove the sack from his shoulder , take out all the giant and set them before him .
` My friend , ' say he , ' I have travel far and be weary .
Is not this such a place a would suit a hero for his home ?
Let u then go , to-morrow , to bring in timber to make a kraal . '
So the next day Makoma and the giant set out to get pole to build the kraal , leave only Chi-eswa-mapiri to look after the place and cook some venison which they have kill .
In the evening , when they return , they find the giant helpless and tie to a tree by one enormous hair !
` How be it , ' say Makoma , astonish , ` that we find you thus bind and helpless ? ' '
O Chief , ' answer Chi-eswa-mapiri , ` at mid-day a man come out of the river ; he be of immense statue , and his grey moustache be of such length that I could not see where they end !
He demand of me `` Who be thy master ? ''
And I answer : `` Makoma , the great of hero . ''
Then the man seize me , and pull a hair from his moustache , tie me to this tree -- even a you see me . '
Makoma be very wroth , but he say nothing , and draw his finger-nail across the hair -LRB- which be a thick and strong a palm rope -RRB- cut it , and set free the mountain-maker .
The three follow day exactly the same thing happen , only each time with a different one of the party ; and on the fourth day Makoma stay in camp when the others go to cut pole , say that he would see for himself what sort of man this be that live in the river and whose moustache be so long that they extend beyond men 's sight .
So when the giant have go he sweep and tidy the camp and put some venison on the fire to roast .
At midday , when the sun be right overhead , he hear a rumble noise from the river , and look up he saw the head and shoulder of an enormous man emerge from it .
And behold !
right down the river-bed and up the river-bed , till they fade into the blue distance , stretch the giant 's grey moustache !
` Who be you ? '
bellow the giant , as soon a he be out of the water . '
I be he that be call Makoma , ' answer the hero ; ` and , before I slay thee , tell me also what be thy name and what thou doest in the river ? '
` My name be Chin-debou Mau-giri , ' say the giant .
` My home be in the river , for my moustache be the grey fever-mist that hang above the water , and with which I bind all those that come unto me so that they die . '
` You can not bind me ! '
shout Makoma , rush upon him and strike with his hammer .
But the river giant be so slimy that the blow slide harmlessly off his green chest , and a Makoma stumble and try to regain his balance , the giant swung one of his long hair around him and trip him up .
For a moment Makoma be helpless , but remember the power of the flame-spirit which have enter into him , he breathe a fiery breath upon the giant 's hair and cut himself free .
As Chin-debou Mau-giri lean forward to seize him the hero fling his sack Woronowu over the giant 's slippery head , and grip his iron hammer , strike him again ; this time the blow alight upon the dry sack and Chin-debou Mau-giri fell dead .
When the four giant return at sunset with the pole , they rejoice to find that Makoma have overcome the fever-spirit , and they feast on the roast venison till far into the night ; but in the morning , when they awake , Makoma be already warm his hand to the fire , and his face be gloomy .
` In the darkness of the night , O my friend , ' he say presently , ` the white spirit of my father come upon me and speak , say : `` Get thee hence , Makoma , for thou shalt have no rest until thou hast find and fought with Sakatirina , who have five head , and be very great and strong ; so take leave of thy friend , for thou must go alone . '' '
Then the giant be very sad , and bewail the loss of their hero ; but Makoma comfort them , and give back to each the gift he have take from them .
Then bid them ` Farewell , ' he go on his way .
Makoma travel far towards the west ; over rough mountain and water-logged morass , ford deep river , and tramp for day across dry desert where most men would have die , until at length he arrive at a hut stand near some large peak , and inside the hut be two beautiful woman .
` Greeting ! '
say the hero .
` Is this the country of Sakatirina of five head , whom I be seek ? '
` We greet you , O Great One ! '
answer the woman .
` We be the wife of Sakatirina ; your search be at an end , for there stand he whom you seek ! '
And they point to what Makoma have think be two tall mountain peak .
` Those be his leg , ' they say ; ` his body you can not see , for it be hide in the cloud . '
Makoma be astonish when he behold how tall be the giant ; but , nothing daunt , he go forward until he reach one of Sakatirina 's leg , which he strike heavily with Nu-endo .
Nothing happen , so he hit again and then again until , presently , he hear a tired , far-away voice say : ` Who be it that scratch my foot ? '
And Makoma shout as loud a he could , answer : ` It be I , Makoma , who be call `` Greater '' ! '
And he listen , but there be no answer .
Then Makoma collect all the dead brushwood and tree that he could find , and make an enormous pile round the giant 's leg , set a light to it .
This time the giant spoke ; his voice be very terrible , for it be the rumble of thunder in the cloud .
` Who be it , ' he say , ` make that fire smoulder around my foot ? '
` It be I , Makoma ! '
shout the hero .
` And I have come from far away to see thee , O Sakatirina , for the spirit of my father bid me go seek and fight with thee , l I should grow fat , and weary of myself . '
There be silence for a while , and then the giant speak softly : ` It be good , O Makoma ! '
he say .
` For I too have grow weary .
There be no man so great a I , therefore I be all alone .
Guard thyself ! '
and bend suddenly he seize the hero in his hand and dash him upon the ground .
And lo !
instead of death , Makoma have find life , for he spring to his foot mightier in strength and stature than before , and rush in he grip the giant by the waist and wrestle with him .
Hour by hour they fight , and mountain roll beneath their foot like pebble in a flood ; now Makoma would break away , and summon up his strength , strike the giant with Nu-endo his iron hammer , and Sakatirina would pluck up the mountain and hurl them upon the hero , but neither one could slay the other .
At last , upon the second day , they grapple so strongly that they could not break away ; but their strength be fail , and , just a the sun be sink , they fell together to the ground , insensible .
In the morning when they awake , Mulimo the Great Spirit be stand by them ; and he say : ' O Makoma and Sakatirina !
Ye be hero so great that no man may come against you .
Therefore ye will leave the world and take up your home with me in the cloud . '
And a he spake the hero become invisible to the people of the Earth , and be no more see among them .
The Magic Mirror -LSB- Native Rhodesian Tale . -RSB-
From the Senna A long , long while ago , before ever the White Men be see in Senna , there live a man call Gopani-Kufa .
One day , a he be out hunting , he come upon a strange sight .
An enormous python have catch an antelope and coil itself around it ; the antelope , strike out in despair with it horn , have pin the python 's neck to a tree , and so deeply have it horn sunk in the soft wood that neither creature could get away .
` Help ! '
cry the antelope , ` for I be do no harm , yet I have be catch , and would have be eat , have I not defend myself . '
` Help me , ' say the python , ` for I be Insato , King of all the Reptiles , and will reward you well ! '
Gopani-Kufa consider for a moment , then stab the antelope with his assegai , he set the python free . '
I thank you , ' say the python ; ` come back here with the new moon , when I shall have eat the antelope , and I will reward you a I promise . '
` Yes , ' say the die antelope , ` he will reward you , and lo !
your reward shall be your own undoing ! '
Gopani-Kufa go back to his kraal , and with the new moon he return again to the spot where he have save the python .
Insato be lie upon the ground , still sleepy from the effect of his huge meal , and when he saw the man he thank him again , and say : ` Come with me now to Pita , which be my own country , and I will give you what you will of all my possession . '
Gopani-Kufa at first be afraid , thinking of what the antelope have say , but finally he consent and follow Insato into the forest .
For several day they travel , and at last they come to a hole lead deep into the earth .
It be not very wide , but large enough to admit a man .
` Hold on to my tail , ' say Insato , ` and I will go down first , draw you after me . '
The man do so , and Insato enter .
Down , down , down they go for day , all the while get deep and deeply into the earth , until at last the darkness end and they drop into a beautiful country ; around them grow short green grass , on which browse herd of cattle and sheep and goat .
In the distance Gopani-Kufa saw a great collection of house all square , built of stone and very tall , and their roof be shin with gold and burnish iron .
Gopani-Kufa turn to Insato , but find , in the place of the python , a man , strong and handsome , with the great snake 's skin wrap round him for cover ; and on his arm and neck be ring of pure gold .
The man smile . '
I be Insato , ' say he , ` but in my own country I take man 's shape -- even a you see me -- for this be Pita , the land over which I be king . '
He then take Gopani-Kufa by the hand and lead him towards the town .
On the way they pass river in which men and woman be bath and fishing and boating ; and farther on they come to garden cover with heavy crop of rice and maize , and many other grain which Gopani-Kufa do not even know the name of .
And a they pass , the people who be sing at their work in the field , abandon their labour and salute Insato with delight , bring also palm wine and green cocoanut for refreshment , a to one return from a long journey .
` These be my child ! '
say Insato , wave his hand towards the people .
Gopani-Kufa be much astonish at all that he saw , but he say nothing .
Presently they come to the town ; everything here , too , be beautiful , and everything that a man might desire he could obtain .
Even the grain of dust in the street be of gold and silver .
Insato conduct Gopani-Kufa to the palace , and show him his room , and the maiden who would wait upon him , tell him that they would have a great feast that night , and on the morrow he might name his choice of the rich of Pita and it should be give him .
Then he be away .
Now Gopani-Kufa have a wasp call Zengi-mizi .
Zengi-mizi be not an ordinary wasp , for the spirit of the father of Gopani-Kufa have enter it , so that it be exceedingly wise .
In time of doubt Gopani-Kufa always consult the wasp a to what have good be do , so on this occasion he take it out of the little rush basket in which he carry it , say : ` Zengi-mizi , what gift shall I ask of Insato to-morrow when he would know the reward he shall bestow on me for save his life ? '
` Biz-z-z , ' hum Zengi-mizi , ` ask him for Sipao the Mirror . '
And it fly back into it basket .
Gopani-Kufa be astonish at this answer ; but know that the word of Zengi-mizi be true word , he determine to make the request .
So that night they feast , and on the morrow Insato come to Gopani-Kufa and , give him greet joyfully , he say : ` Now , O my friend , name your choice amongst my possession and you shall have it ! ' '
O king ! '
answer Gopani-Kufa , ` out of all your possession I will have the Mirror , Sipao . '
The king start . '
O friend , Gopani-Kufa , ' he say , ` ask anything but that !
I do not think that you would request that which be most precious to me . '
` Let me think over it again then , O king , ' say Gopani-Kufa , ` and to-morrow I will let you know if I change my mind . '
But the king be still much trouble , fear the loss of Sipao , for the mirror have magic power , so that he who own it have but to ask and his wish would be fulfil ; to it Insato owe all that he possess .
As soon a the king leave him , Gopani-Kufa again take Zengi-mizi , out of his basket .
` Zengi-mizi , ' he say , ` the king seem loth to grant my request for the Mirror -- be there not some other thing of equal value for which I might ask ? '
And the wasp answer : ` There be nothing in the world , O Gopani-Kufa , which be of such value a this Mirror , for it be a Wishing Mirror , and accomplish the desire of him who own it .
If the king hesitates , go to him the next day , and the day after , and in the end he will bestow the Mirror upon you , for you save his life . '
And it be even so .
For three day Gopani-Kufa return the same answer to the king , and , at last , with tear in his eye , Insato give him the Mirror , which be of polished iron , say : ` Take Sipao , then , O Gopani-Kufa , and may thy wish come true .
Go back now to thine own country ; Sipao will show you the way . '
Gopani-Kufa be greatly rejoice , and , take farewell of the king , say to the Mirror : ` Sipao , Sipao , I wish to be back upon the Earth again ! '
Instantly he find himself stand upon the upper earth ; but , not know the spot , he say again to the Mirror : ` Sipao , Sipao , I want the path to my own kraal ! '
And behold !
right before him lay the path !
When he arrive home he find his wife and daughter mourn for him , for they think that he have be eat by lion ; but he comfort them , say that while follow a wounded antelope he have miss his way and have wander for a long time before he have find the path again .
That night he ask Zengi-mizi , in whom sit the spirit of his father , what he have well ask Sipao for next ?
` Biz-z-z , ' say the wasp , ` would you not like to be as great a chief a Insato ? '
And Gopani-Kufa smile , and take the Mirror and say to it : ` Sipao , Sipao , I want a town as great a that of Insato , the King of Pita ; and I wish to be chief over it ! '
Then all along the bank of the Zambesi river , which flow near by , spring up street of stone building , and their roof shone with gold and burnish iron like those in Pita ; and in the street men and woman be walk , and young boy be drive out the sheep and cattle to pasture ; and from the river come shout and laughter from the young men and maiden who have launch their canoe and be fish .
And when the people of the new town behold Gopani-Kufa they rejoice greatly and hail him a chief .
Gopani-Kufa be now as powerful a Insato the King of the Reptiles have be , and he and his family move into the palace that stand high above the other building right in the middle of the town .
His wife be too astonish at all these wonder to ask any question , but his daughter Shasasa keep beg him to tell her how he have suddenly become so great ; so at last he reveal the whole secret , and even entrust Sipao the Mirror to her care , say : ` It will be safer with you , my daughter , for you dwell apart ; whereas men come to consult me on affair of state , and the Mirror might be steal . '
Then Shasasa take the Magic Mirror and hide it beneath her pillow , and after that for many year Gopani-Kufa rule his people both well and wisely , so that all men love him , and never once do he need to ask Sipao to grant him a wish .
Now it happen that , after many year , when the hair of Gopani-Kufa be turn grey with age , there come white men to that country .
Up the Zambesi they come , and they fight long and fiercely with Gopani-Kufa ; but , because of the power of the Magic Mirror , he beat them , and they flee to the sea-coast .
Chief among them be one Rei , a man of much cunning , who seek to discover whence sprang Gopani-Kufa 's power .
So one day he call to him a trusty servant name Butou , and say : ` Go you to the town and find out for me what be the secret of it greatness . '
And Butou , dress himself in rag , set out , and when he come to Gopani-Kufa 's town he ask for the chief ; and the people take him into the presence of Gopani-Kufa .
When the white man saw him he humble himself , and say : ' O Chief !
take pity on me , for I have no home !
When Rei march against you I alone stand apart , for I know that all the strength of the Zambesi lay in your hand , and because I would not fight against you he turn me forth into the forest to starve ! '
And Gopani-Kufa believe the white man 's story , and he take him in and feast him , and give him a house .
In this way the end come .
For the heart of Shasasa , the daughter of Gopani-Kufa , go forth to Butou the traitor , and from her he learn the secret of the Magic Mirror .
One night , when all the town slept , he felt beneath her pillow and , find the Mirror , he steal it and flee back with it to Rei , the chief of the white men .
So it befall that , one day , a Gopani-Kufa be gaze up at the river from a window of the palace he again saw the war-canoes of the white men ; and at the sight his spirit misgive him .
` Shasasa !
my daughter ! '
he cry wildly , ` go fetch me the mirror , for the white men be at hand . '
` Woe be me , my father ! '
she sob .
` The Mirror be go !
For I love Butou the traitor , and he have steal Sipao from me ! '
Then Gopani-Kufa calm himself , and draw out Zengi-mizi from it rush basket . '
O spirit of my father ! '
he say , ` what now shall I do ? ' '
O Gopani-Kufa ! '
hum the wasp , ` there be nothing now that can be do , for the word of the antelope which you slew be be fulfil . '
` Alas !
I be an old man -- I have forget ! '
cry the chief .
` The word of the antelope be true word -- my reward shall be my undo -- they be be fulfil ! '
Then the white men fell upon the people of Gopani-Kufa and slew them together with the chief and his daughter Shasasa ; and since then all the power of the Earth have rest in the hand of the white men , for they have in their possession Sipao , the Magic Mirror .
Story of the King Who Would See Paradise Once upon a time there be king who , one day out hunting , come upon a fakeer in a lonely place in the mountain .
The fakeer be seat on a little old bedstead read the Koran , with his patched cloak throw over his shoulder .
The king ask him what he be read ; and he say he be read about Paradise , and pray that he might be worthy to enter there .
Then they begin to talk , and , by-and-bye , the king ask the fakeer if he could show him a glimpse of Paradise , for he find it very difficult to believe in what he could not see .
The fakeer reply that he be ask a very difficult , and perhaps a very dangerous , thing ; but that he would pray for him , and perhaps he might be able to do it ; only he warn the king both against the danger of his unbelief , and against the curiosity which prompt him to ask this thing .
However , the king be not to be turn from his purpose , and he promise the fakeer always to provide him with food , if he , in return , would pray for him .
To this the fakeer agree , and so they part .
Time go on , and the king always send the old fakeer his food accord to his promise ; but , whenever he send to ask him when he be go to show him Paradise , the fakeer always reply : ` Not yet , not yet ! '
After a year or two have pass by , the king heard one day that the fakeer be very ill -- indeed , he be believe to be die .
Instantly he hurry off himself , and find that it be really true , and that the fakeer be even then breathe his last .
There and then the king beseech him to remember his promise , and to show him a glimpse of Paradise .
The die fakeer reply that if the king would come to his funeral , and , when the grave be fill in , and everyone else be go away , he would come and lay his hand upon the grave , he would keep his word , and show him a glimpse of Paradise .
At the same time he implore the king not to do this thing , but to be content to see Paradise when God call him there .
Still the king 's curiosity be so aroused that he would not give way .
Accordingly , after the fakeer be dead , and have be bury , he stay behind when all the rest go away ; and then , when he be quite alone , he step forward , and lay his hand upon the grave !
Instantly the ground open , and the astonished king , peep in , saw a flight of rough step , and , at the bottom of them , the fakeer sitting , just a he use to sit , on his rickety bedstead , read the Koran !
At first the king be so surprised and frighten that he could only stare ; but the fakeer beckon to him to come down , so , muster up his courage , he boldly step down into the grave .
The fakeer rise , and , make a sign to the king to follow , walk a few pace along a dark passage .
Then he stop , turn solemnly to his companion , and , with a movement of his hand , draw aside a it be a heavy curtain , and reveal -- what ?
No one know what be there show to the king , nor do he ever tell anyone ; but , when the fakeer at length drop the curtain , and the king turn to leave the place , he have have his glimpse of Paradise !
Trembling in every limb , he stagger back along the passage , and stumble up the step out of the tomb into the fresh air again .
The dawn be break .
It seem odd to the king that he have be so long in the grave .
It appear but a few minute ago that he have descend , pass along a few step to the place where he have peep beyond the veil , and return again after perhaps five minute of that wonderful view !
And what WAS it he have see ?
He rack his brain to remember , but he could not call to mind a single thing !
How curious everything look too !
Why , his own city , which by now he be enter , seem change and strange to him !
The sun be already up when he turn into the palace gate and enter the public durbar hall .
It be full ; a chamberlain come across and ask him why he sit unbidden in the king 's presence .
` But I be the king ! '
he cry .
` What king ? '
say the chamberlain .
` The true king of this country , ' say he indignantly .
Then the chamberlain go away , and speak to the king who sit on the throne , and the old king heard word like ` mad , ' ` age , ' ` compassion . '
Then the king on the throne call him to come forward , and , a he go , he catch sight of himself reflect in the polished steel shield of the bodyguard , and start back in horror !
He be old , decrepit , dirty , and rag !
His long white beard and lock be unkempt , and straggle all over his chest and shoulder .
Only one sign of royalty remain to him , and that be the signet ring upon his right hand .
He drag it off with shake finger and hold it up to the king .
` Tell me who I be , ' he cry ; ` there be my signet , who once sit where you sit -- even yesterday ! '
The king look at him compassionately , and examine the signet with curiosity .
Then he command , and they bring out dusty record and archive of the kingdom , and old coin of previous reign , and compare them faithfully .
At last the king turn to the old man , and say : ` Old man , such a king a this whose signet thou hast , reign seven hundred year ago ; but he be say to have disappear , none know whither ; where get you the ring ? '
Then the old man smite his breast , and cry out with a loud lamentation ; for he understand that he , who be not content to wait patiently to see the Paradise of the faithful , have be judge already .
And he turn and leave the hall without a wor , and go into the jungle , where he live for twenty-five year a life of prayer and and meditation , until at last the Angel of Death come to him , and mercifully release him , purge and purify through his punishment .
How Isuro the Rabbit Tricked Gudu -LSB- A Pathan story tell to Major Campbell . -RSB-
Far away in a hot country , where the forest be very thick and dark , and the river very swift and strong , there once live a strange pair of friend .
Now one of the friend be a big white rabbit name Isuro , and the other be a tall baboon call Gudu , and so fond be they of each other that they be seldom see apart .
One day , when the sun be hotter even than usual , the rabbit awoke from his midday sleep , and saw Gudu the baboon stand beside him .
` Get up , ' say Gudu ; ' I be go courting , and you must come with me .
So put some food in a bag , and sling it round your neck , for we may not be able to find anything to eat for a long while . '
Then the rabbit rub his eye , and gather a store of fresh green thing from under the bush , and tell Gudu that he be ready for the journey .
They go on quite happily for some distance , and at last they come to a river with rock scatter here and there across the stream .
` We can never jump those wide space if we be burden with food , ' say Gudu , ` we must throw it into the river , unless we wish to fall in ourselves . '
And stoop down , unseen by Isuro , who be in front of him , Gudu pick up a big stone , and throw it into the water with a loud splash .
` It be your turn now , ' he cry to Isuro .
And with a heavy sigh , the rabbit unfasten his bag of food , which fell into the river .
The road on the other side lead down an avenue of tree , and before they have go very far Gudu open the bag that lay hide in the thick hair about his neck , and begin to eat some delicious-looking fruit .
` Where do you get that from ? '
ask Isuro enviously .
` Oh , I find after all that I could get across the rock quite easily , so it seem a pity not to keep my bag , ' answer Gudu .
` Well , a you trick me into throw away mine , you ought to let me share with you , ' say Isuro .
But Gudu pretend not to hear him , and strode along the path .
By-and-bye they enter a wood , and right in front of them be a tree so laden with fruit that it branch sweep the ground .
And some of the fruit be still green , and some yellow .
The rabbit hop forward with joy , for he be very hungry ; but Gudu say to him : ` Pluck the green fruit , you will find it much the best .
I will leave it all for you , a you have have no dinner , and take the yellow for myself . '
So the rabbit take one of the green orange and begin to bite it , but it skin be so hard that he could hardly get his teeth through the rind .
` It do not taste at all nice , ' he cry , screw up his face ; ' I would rather have one of the yellow one . '
` No !
no !
I really could not allow that , ' answer Gudu .
` They would only make you ill .
Be content with the green fruit . '
And a they be all he could get , Isuro be force to put up with them .
After this have happen two or three time , Isuro at last have his eye open , and make up his mind that , whatever Gudu tell him , he would do exactly the opposite .
However , by this time they have reach the village where dwelt Gudu 's future wife , and a they enter Gudu point to a clump of bush , and say to Isuro : ` Whenever I be eat , and you hear me call out that my food have burn me , run as fast a you can and gather some of those leaf that they may heal my mouth . '
The rabbit would have like to ask him why he eat food that he know would burn him , only he be afraid , and just nod in reply ; but when they have go on a little further , he say to Gudu : ' I have drop my needle ; wait here a moment while I go and fetch it . '
` Be quick then , ' answer Gudu , climb into a tree .
And the rabbit hasten back to the bush , and gather a quantity of the leaf , which he hide among his fur , ` For , ' think he , ` if I get them now I shall save myself the trouble of a walk by-and-by . '
When he have pluck as many a he want he return to Gudu , and they go on together .
The sun be almost setting by the time they reach their journey 's end and be very tire they gladly sit down by a well .
Then Gudu 's betroth , who have be watch for him , bring out a pitcher of water -- which she pour over them to wash off the dust of the road -- and two portion of food .
But once again the rabbit 's hope be dash to the ground , for Gudu say hastily : ` The custom of the village forbids you to eat till I have finish . '
And Isuro do not know that Gudu be lie , and that he only want more food .
So he saw hungrily look on , wait till his friend have have enough .
In a little while Gudu scream loudly : ' I be burnt !
I be burnt ! '
though he be not burn at all .
Now , though Isuro have the leaf about him , he do not dare to produce them at the last moment lest the baboon should guess why he have stay behind .
So he just go round a corner for a short time , and then come hop back in a great hurry .
But , quick though he be , Gudu have be quicker still , and nothing remain but some drop of water .
` How unlucky you be , ' say Gudu , snatch the leaf ; ` no sooner have you go than ever so many people arrive , and wash their hand , a you see , and eat your portion . '
But , though Isuro know good than to believe him , he say nothing , and go to bed hungry than he have ever be in his life .
Early next morning they start for another village , and pass on the way a large garden where people be very busy gather monkey-nuts .
` You can have a good breakfast at last , ' say Gudu , point to a heap of empty shell ; never doubt but that Isuro would meekly take the portion show him , and leave the real nut for himself .
But what be his surprise when Isuro answer : ` Thank you ; I think I should prefer these . '
And , turn to the kernel , never stop as long a there be one left .
And the bad of it be that , with so many people about , Gudu could not take the nut from him .
It be night when they reach the village where dwell the mother of Gudu 's betroth , who lay meat and millet porridge before them . '
I think you tell me you be fond of porridge , ' say Gudu ; but Isuro answer : ` You be mistake me for somebody else , a I always eat meat when I can get it . '
And again Gudu be force to be content with the porridge , which he hat .
While he be eat it , however a sudden thought dart into his mind , and he manage to knock over a great pot of water which be hang in front of the fire , and put it quite out .
` Now , ' say the cunning creature to himself , ' I shall be able in the dark to steal his meat ! '
But the rabbit have grow as cunning a he , and stand in a corner hide the meat behind him , so that the baboon could not find it . '
O Gudu ! '
he cry , laugh aloud , ` it be you who have teach me to be clever . '
And call to the people of the house , he bid them kindle the fire , for Gudu would sleep by it , but that he would pass the night with some friend in another hut .
It be still quite dark when Isuro hear his name call very softly , and , on open his eye , behold Gudu stand by him .
Laying his finger on his nose , in token of silence , he sign to Isuro to get up and follow him , and it be not until they be some distance from the hut that Gudu speak . '
I be hungry and want something to eat good than that nasty porridge that I have for supper .
So I be go to kill one of those goat , and a you be a good cook you must boil the flesh for me . '
The rabbit nod , and Gudu disappear behind a rock , but soon return drag the dead goat with him .
The two then set about skin it , after which they stuff the skin with dried leaf , so that no one would have guess it be not alive , and set it up in the middle of a lump of bush , which keep it firm on it foot .
While he be do this , Isuro collect stick for a fire , and when it be kindle , Gudu hasten to another hut to steal a pot which he fill with water from the river , and , plant two branch in the ground , they hang the pot with the meat in it over the fire .
` It will not be fit to eat for two hour at least , ' say Gudu , ` so we can both have a nap . '
And he stretch himself out on the ground , and pretend to fall fast asleep , but , in reality , he be only wait till it be safe to take all the meat for himself .
` Surely I hear him snore , ' he think ; and he steal to the place where Isuro be lie on a pile of wood , but the rabbit 's eye be wide open .
` How tiresome , ' mutter Gudu , a he go back to his place ; and after wait a little longer he get up , and peep again , but still the rabbit 's pink eye star widely .
If Gudu have only know , Isuro be asleep all the time ; but this he never guess , and by-and-bye he grow so tired with watch that he go to sleep himself .
Soon after , Isuro wake up , and he too felt hungry , so he creep softly to the pot and eat all the meat , while he tie the bone together and hang them in Gudu 's fur .
After that he go back to the wood-pile and slept again .
In the morning the mother of Gudu 's betroth come out to milk her goat , and on go to the bush where the large one seem entangled , she find out the trick .
She make such lament that the people of the village come run , and Gudu and Isuro jump up also , and pretend to be a surprised and interested a the rest .
But they must have look guilty after all , for suddenly an old man point to them , and cry : ` Those be thief . '
And at the sound of his voice the big Gudu tremble all over .
` How dare you say such thing ?
I defy you to prove it , ' answer Isuro boldly .
And he dance forward , and turn head over heel , and shake himself before them all . '
I speak hastily ; you be innocent , ' say the old man ; ` but now let the baboon do likewise . '
And when Gudu begin to jump the goat 's bone rattle and the people cry : ` It be Gudu who be the goat-slayer ! '
But Gudu answer : ` Nay , I do not kill your goat ; it be Isuro , and he eat the meat , and hang the bone round my neck .
So it be he who should die ! '
And the people look at each other , for they know not what to believe .
At length one man say : ` Let them both die , but they may choose their own death . '
Then Isuro answer : ` If we must die , put u in the place where the wood be cut , and heap it up all round u , so that we can not escape , and set fire to the wood ; and if one be burn and the other be not , then he that be burn be the goat-slayer . '
And the people do a Isuro have say .
But Isuro knew of a hole under the wood-pile , and when the fire be kindle he run into the hole , but Gudu die there .
When the fire have burn itself out and only ash be leave where the wood have be , Isuro come out of his hole , and say to the people : ` Lo !
do I not speak well ?
He who kill your goat be among those ash . '
Ian , the Soldier 's Son -LSB- Mashona Story . -RSB-
There dwell a knight in Grianaig of the land of the West , who have three daughter , and for goodness and beauty they have not their like in all the isle .
All the people love them , and loud be the weeping when one day , a the three maiden sit on the rock on the edge of the sea , dip their foot in the water , there arise a great beast from under the wave and sweep them away beneath the ocean .
And none know whither they have go , or how to seek them .
Now there live in a town a few mile off a soldier who have three son , fine youth and strong , and the best player at shinny in that country .
At Christmastide that year , when family meet together and great feast be hold , Ian , the young of the three brother , say : ` Let u have a match at shinny on the lawn of the knight of Grianaig , for his lawn be wider and the grass smoother than ours . '
But the others answer : ` Nay , for he be in sorrow , and he will think of the game that we have play there when his daughter look on . '
` Let him be please or angry a he will , ' say Ian ; ` we will drive our ball on his lawn to-day . '
And so it be do , and Ian win three game from his brother .
But the knight look out of his window , and be wroth ; and bid his men bring the youth before him .
When he stand in his hall and behold them , his heart be soften somewhat ; but his face be angry a he ask : ` Why do you choose to play shinny in front of my castle when you know full well that the remembrance of my daughter would come back to me ?
The pain which you have make me suffer you shall suffer also . '
` Since we have do you wrong , ' answered Ian , the young , ` build u a ship , and we will go and seek your daughter .
Let them be to windward , or to leeward , or under the four brown boundary of the sea , we will find them before a year and a day go by , and will carry them back to Grianaig . '
In seven day the ship be build , and great store of food and wine place in her .
And the three brother put her head to the sea and sail away , and in seven day the ship run herself on to a beach of white sand , and they all go ashore .
They have none of them ever see that land before , and look about them .
Then they saw that , a short way from them , a number of men be work on a rock , with one man standing over them .
` What place be this ? '
ask the eldest brother .
And the man who be stand by make answer : ` This be the place where dwell the three daughter of the knight of Grianaig , who be to be wed to-morrow to three giant . '
` How can we find them ? '
ask the young man again .
And the overlooker answer : ` To reach the daughter of the knight of Grianaig you must get into this basket , and be draw by a rope up the face of this rock . '
` Oh , that be easily do , ' say the eldest brother , jump into the basket , which at once begin to move -- up , and up , and up -- till he have go about half-way , when a fat black raven fly at him and peck him till he be nearly blind , so that he be force to go back the way he have come .
After that the second brother get into the creel ; but he fare no good , for the raven fly upon him , and he return a his brother have do .
` Now it be my turn , ' say Ian .
But when he be halfway up the raven set upon him also .
` Quick !
quick ! '
cried Ian to the men who hold the rope .
` Quick !
quick !
or I shall be blind ! '
And the men pull with all their might , and in another moment Ian be on top , and the raven behind him .
` Will you give me a piece of tobacco ? '
ask the raven , who be now quite quiet .
` You rascal !
Am I to give you tobacco for try to peck my eye out ? '
answered Ian .
` That be part of my duty , ' reply the raven ; ` but give it to me , and I will prove a good friend to you . '
So Ian break off a piece of tobacco and give it to him .
The raven hide it under his wing , and then go on ; ` Now I will take you to the house of the big giant , where the knight 's daughter sit sew , sew , till even her thimble be wet with tear . '
And the raven hop before him till they reach a large house , the door of which stand open .
They enter and pass through one hall after the other , until they find the knight 's daughter , a the bird have say .
` What bring you here ? '
ask she .
And Ian make answer : ` Why may I not go where you can go ? ' '
I be bring hither by a giant , ' reply she . '
I know that , ' say Ian ; ` but tell me where the giant be , that I may find him . '
` He be on the hunting hill , ' answer she ; ` and nought will bring him home save a shake of the iron chain which hang outside the gate .
But , there , neither to leeward , nor to windward , nor in the four brown boundary of the sea , be there any man that can hold battle against him , save only Ian , the soldier 's son , and he be now but sixteen year old , and how shall he stand against the giant ? '
` In the land whence I have come there be many men with the strength of Ian , ' answer he .
And he go outside and pull at the chain , but he could not move it , and fell on to his knee .
At that he rise swiftly , and gather up his strength , he seize the chain , and this time he shake it so that the link break .
And the giant heard it on the hunting hill , and lift his head , think -- ` It sound like the noise of Ian , the soldier 's son , ' say he ; ` but as yet he be only sixteen year old .
Still , I have well look to it . '
And home he come .
` Are you Ian , the soldier 's son ? '
he ask , a he enter the castle .
` No , of a surety , ' answer the youth , who have no wish that they should know him .
` Then who be you in the leeward , or in the windward , or in the four brown boundary of the sea , who be able to move my battle-chain ? '
` That will be plain to you after wrestle with me a I wrestle with my mother .
And one time she get the good of me , and two time she do not . '
So they wrestle , and twisted and strive with each other till the giant force Ian to his knee .
` You be the strong , ' say Ian ; and the giant answer : ` All men know that ! '
And they take hold of each other once more , and at last Ian throw the giant , and wish that the raven be there to help him .
No sooner have he wish his wish than the raven come .
` Put your hand under my right wing and you will find a knife sharp enough to take off his head , ' say the raven .
And the knife be so sharp that it cut off the giant 's head with a blow .
` Now go and tell the daughter of the king of Grianaig ; but take heed l you listen to her word , and promise to go no far , for she will seek to help you .
Instead , seek the middle daughter , and when you have find her , you shall give me a piece of tobacco for reward . '
` Well have you earn the half of all I have , ' answered Ian .
But the raven shake his head .
` You know only what have pass , and nothing of what lie before .
If you would not fail , wash yourself in clean water , and take balsam from a vessel on top of the door , and rub it over your body , and to-morrow you will be as strong a many men , and I will lead you to the dwelling of the middle one . '
Ian do a the raven bid him , and in spite of the eldest daughter 's entreaty , he set out to seek her next sister .
He find her where she be seat sewing , her very thimble wet from the tear which she have shed .
` What bring you here ? '
ask the second sister .
` Why may I not go where you can go ? '
answered he ; ` and why be you weep ? '
` Because in one day I shall be marry to the giant who be on the hunting hill . '
` How can I get him home ? '
ask Ian .
` Nought will bring him but a shake of that iron chain which hang outside the gate .
But there be neither to leeward , nor to westward , nor in the four brown boundary of the sea , any man that can hold battle with him , save Ian , the soldier 's son , and he be now but sixteen year of age . '
` In the land whence I have come there be many men with the strength of Ian , ' say he .
And he go outside and pull at the chain , but he could not move it , and fell on his knee .
At that he rise to his foot , and gather up his strength mightily , he seize the chain , and this time he shake it so that three link break .
And the second giant heard it on the hunting hill , and lift his head , think -- ` It sound like the noise of Ian , the soldier 's son , ' say he ; ` but as yet he be only sixteen year old .
Still , I have well look to it . '
And home he come .
` Are you Ian , the soldier 's son ? '
he ask , a he enter the castle .
` No , of a surety , ' answer the youth , who have no wish that this giant should know him either ; ` but I will wrestle with you a if I be he . '
Then they seize each other by the shoulder , and the giant throw him on his two knee .
` You be the strong , ' cried Ian ; ` but I be not beat yet . '
And rise to his foot , he throw his arm round the giant .
Backwards and forward they sway , and first one be uppermost and then the other ; but at length Ian work his leg round the giant 's and throw him to the ground .
Then he call to the raven , and the raven come flapping towards him , and say : ` Put your hand under my right wing , and you will find there a knife sharp enough to take off his head . '
And sharp indeed it be , for with a single blow , the giant 's head roll from his body .
` Now wash yourself with warm water , and rub yourself over with oil of balsam , and to-morrow you will be as strong a many men .
But beware of the word of the knight 's daughter , for she be cunning , and will try to keep you at her side .
So farewell ; but first give me a piece of tobacco . '
` That I will gladly , ' answer Ian break off a large bit .
He wash and rub himself that night , a the raven have tell him , and the next morning he enter the chamber where the knight 's daughter be sit .
` Abide here with me , ' she say , ` and be my husband .
There be silver and gold in plenty in the castle . '
But he take no heed , and go on his way till he reach the castle where the knight 's young daughter be sew in the hall .
And tear drop from her eye on to her thimble .
` What bring you here ? '
ask she .
And Ian make answer : ` Why may I not go where you can go ? ' '
I be bring hither by a giant . ' '
I know full well , ' say he .
` Are you Ian , the soldier 's son ? '
ask she again .
And again he answer : ` Yes , I be ; but tell me , why be you weep ? '
` To-morrow the giant will return from the hunting hill , and I must marry him , ' she sob .
And Ian take no heed , and only say : ` How can I bring him home ? '
` Shake the iron chain that hang outside the gate . '
And Ian go out , and give such a pull to the chain that he fell down at full length from the force of the shake .
But in a moment he be on his foot again , and seize the chain with so much strength that four link come off in his hand .
And the giant heard him in the hunting hill , a he be put the game he have kill into a bag .
` In the leeward , or the windward , or in the four brown boundary of the sea , there be none who could give my chain a shake save only Ian , the soldier 's son .
And if he have reach me , then he have leave my two brother dead behind him . '
With that he stride back to the castle , the earth tremble under him a he go .
` Are you Ian , the soldier 's son ? '
ask he .
And the youth answer : ` No , of a surety . '
` Then who be you in the leeward , or the windward , or in the four brown boundary of the sea , who be able to shake my battle chain ?
There be only Ian , the soldier 's son , who can do this , and he be but now sixteen year old . '
I will show you who I be when you have wrestle with me , ' say Ian .
And they throw their arm round each other , and the giant forced Ian on to his knee ; but in a moment he be up again , and crook his leg round the shoulder of the giant , he throw him heavily to the ground .
` Stumpy black raven , come quick ! '
cry he ; and the raven come , and beat the giant about the head with his wing , so that he could not get up .
Then he bid Ian take out a sharp knife from under his feather , which he carry with him for cut berry , and Ian smite off the giant 's head with it .
And so sharp be that knife that , with one blow , the giant 's head roll on the ground .
` Rest now this night also , ' say the raven , ` and to-morrow you shall take the knight 's three daughter to the edge of the rock that lead to the low world .
But take heed to go down first yourself , and let them follow after you .
And before I go you shall give me a piece of tobacco . '
` Take it all , ' answered Ian , ` for well have you earn it . '
` No ; give me but a piece .
You know what be behind you , but you have no knowledge of what be before you . '
And pick up the tobacco in his beak , the raven fly away .
So the next morning the knight 's young daughter load ass with all the silver and gold to be find in the castle , and she set out with Ian the soldier 's son for the house where her second sister be wait to see what would befall .
She also have ass laden with precious thing to carry away , and so have the eldest sister , when they reach the castle where she have be keep a prisoner .
Together they all ride to the edge of the rock , and then Ian lay down and shout , and the basket be draw up , and in it they get one by one , and be let down to the bottom .
When the last one be go , Ian should have go also , and leave the three sister to come after him ; but he have forget the raven 's warning , and bid them go first , l some accident should happen .
Only , he beg the young sister to let him keep the little gold cap which , like the others , she wear on her head ; and then he help them , each in her turn , into the basket .
Long he wait , but wait a he might , the basket never come back , for in their joy at be free the knight 's daughter have forget all about Ian , and have set sail in the ship that have bring him and his brother to the land of Grianaig .
At last he begin to understand what have happen to him , and while he be take counsel with himself what have best be do , the raven come to him .
` You do not heed my word , ' he say gravely .
` No , I do not , and therefore be I here , ' answered Ian , bow his head .
` The past can not be undone , ' go on the raven .
` He that will not take counsel will take combat .
This night , you will sleep in the giant 's castle .
And now you shall give me a piece of tobacco . ' '
I will .
But , I pray you , stay in the castle with me . '
` That I may not do , but on the morrow I will come . '
And on the morrow he do , and he bid Ian go to the giant 's stable where stand a horse to whom it matter nothing if she journey over land or sea .
` But be careful , ' he add , ` how you enter the stable , for the door swing without cease to and fro , and if it touch you , it will cause you to cry out .
I will go first and show you the way . '
` Go , ' say Ian .
And the raven give a bob and a hop , and think he be quite safe , but the door slam on a feather of his tail , and he scream loudly .
Then Ian take a run backwards , and a run forward , and make a spring ; but the door catch one of his foot , and he fell faint on the stable floor .
Quickly the raven pounce on him , and pick him up in his beak and claw , and carry him back to the castle , where he lay ointment on his foot till it be as well a ever it be .
` Now come out to walk , ' say the raven , ` but take heed that you wonder not at aught you may behold ; neither shall you touch anything .
And , first , give me a piece of tobacco . '
Many strange thing do Ian behold in that island , more than he have think for .
In a glen lay three hero stretch on their back , do to death by three spear that still stick in their breast .
But he keep his counsel and spake nothing , only he pull out the spear , and the men sit up and say : ` You be Ian the soldier 's son , and a spell be lay upon you to travel in our company , to the cave of the black fisherman . '
So together they go till they reach the cave , and one of the men enter , to see what should be find there .
And he behold a hag , horrible to look upon , seat on a rock , and before he could speak , she strike him with her club , and change him into a stone ; and in like manner she deal with the other three .
At the last Ian enter .
` These men be under spell , ' say the witch , ` and alive they can never be till you have anoint them with the water which you must fetch from the island of Big Women .
See that you do not tarry . '
And Ian turn away with a sinking heart , for he would fain have follow the young daughter of the knight of Grianaig .
` You do not obey my counsel , ' say the raven , hop towards him , ` and so trouble have come upon you .
But sleep now , and to-morrow you shall mount the horse which be in the giant 's stable , that can gallop over sea and land .
When you reach the island of Big Women , sixteen boy will come to meet you , and will offer the horse food , and wish to take her saddle and bridle from her .
But see that they touch her not , and give her food yourself , and yourself lead her into the stable , and shut the door .
And be sure that for every turn of the lock give by the sixteen stable lad you give one .
And now you shall break me off a piece of tobacco . '
The next morning Ian arose , and lead the horse from the stable , without the door hurt him , and he ride across the sea to the island of the Big Women , where the sixteen stable lad meet him , and each one offer to take his horse , and to fee her , and to put her into the stable .
But Ian only answer : ' I myself will put her in and will see to her . '
And thus he do .
And while he be rub her side the horse say to him : ` Every kind of drink will they offer you , but see you take none , save whey and water only . '
And so it fell out ; and when the sixteen stable-boys saw that he would drink nothing , they drink it all themselves , and one by one lay stretch around the board .
Then Ian felt pleased in his heart that he have withstand their fair word , and he forget the counsel that the horse have likewise give him say : ` Beware l you fall asleep , and let slip the chance of get home again ' ; for while the lad be sleep sweet music reach his ear , and he sleep also .
When this come to pass the steed break through the stable door , and kick him and wake him roughly .
` You do not heed my counsel , ' say she ; ` and who know if it be not too late to win over the sea ?
But first take that sword which hang on the wall , and cut off the head of the sixteen groom . '
Filled with shame at be once more proved heedless , Ian arise and do a the horse bid him .
Then he run to the well and pour some of the water into a leather bottle , and jump on the horse 's back rode over the sea to the island where the raven be wait for him .
` Lead the horse into the stable , ' say the raven , ` and lie down yourself to sleep , for to-morrow you must make the hero to live again , and must slay the hag .
And have a care not to be so foolish to-morrow a you be to-day . '
` Stay with me for company , ' beg Ian ; but the raven shake his head , and fly away .
In the morning Ian awoke , and hasten to the cave where the old hag be sit , and he strike her dead a she be , before she could cast spell on him .
Next he sprinkle the water over the hero , who come to life again , and together they all journey to the other side of the island , and there the raven meet them .
` At last you have follow the counsel that be give you , ' say the raven ; ` and now , have learn wisdom , you may go home again to Grianaig .
There you will find that the knight 's two eldest daughter be to be wed this day to your two brother , and the young to the chief of the men at the rock .
But her gold cap you shall give to me and , if you want it , you have only to think of me and I will bring it to you .
And one more warning I give you .
If anyone ask you whence you come , answer that you have come from behind you ; and if anyone ask you whither you be go , say that you be go before you . '
So Ian mount the horse and set her face to the sea and her back to the shore , and she be off , away and away till she reach the church of Grianaig , and there , in a field of grass , beside a well of water , he leap down from his saddle .
` Now , ' the horse say to him , ` draw your sword and cut off my head . '
But Ian answer : ` Poor thanks would that be for all the help I have have from you . '
` It be the only way that I can free myself from the spell that be lay by the giant on me and the raven ; for I be a girl and he be a youth woo me !
So have no fear , but do a I have say . '
Then Ian draw his sword a she bid him , and cut off her head , and go on his way without look backwards .
As he walk he saw a woman stand at her house door .
She ask him whence he have come , and he answer a the raven have tell him , that he come from behind .
Next she inquire whither he be go , and this time he make reply that he be go on before him , but that he be thirsty and would like a drink .
` You be an impudent fellow , ' say the woman ; ` but you shall have a drink . '
And she give him some milk , which be all she have till her husband come home .
` Where be your husband ? '
ask Ian , and the woman answer him : ` He be at the knight 's castle try to fashion gold and silver into a cap for the young daughter , like unto the cap that her sister wear , such a be not to be find in all this land .
But , see , he be return ; and now we shall hear how he have speed . '
At that the man enter the gate , and behold a strange youth , he say to him : ` What be your trade , boy ? ' '
I be a smith , ' reply Ian .
And the man answer : ` Good luck have befall me , then , for you can help me to make a cap for the knight 's daughter . '
` You can not make that cap , and you know it , ' say Ian .
` Well , I must try , ' reply the man , ` or I shall be hang on a tree ; so it be a good deed to help me . ' '
I will help you if I can , ' say Ian ; ` but keep the gold and silver for yourself , and lock me into the smithy to-night , and I will work my spell . '
So the man , wonder to himself , lock him in .
As soon a the key be turn in the lock Ian wish for the raven , and the raven come to him , carry the cap in his mouth .
` Now take my head off , ' say the raven .
But Ian answer : ` Poor thanks be that for all the help you have give me . '
` It be the only thanks you can give me , ' say the raven , ` for I be a youth like yourself before spell be lay on me . '
Then Ian draw his sword and cut off the head of the raven , and shut his eye so that he might see nothing .
After that he lay down and sleep till morning dawn , and the man come and unlock the door and shake the sleeper .
` Here be the cap , ' say Ian drowsily , draw it from under his pillow .
And he fell asleep again directly .
The sun be high in the heaven when he wake again , and this time he behold a tall , brown-haired youth standing by him . '
I be the raven , ' say the youth , ` and the spell be break .
But now get up and come with me . '
Then they two go together to the place where Ian have leave the dead horse ; but no horse be there now , only a beautiful maiden . '
I be the horse , ' she say , ` and the spell be break ' ; and she and the youth go away together .
In the meantime the smith have carry the cap to the castle , and bid a servant belonging to the knight 's young daughter bear it to her mistress .
But when the girl 's eye fell on it , she cry out : ` He speak false ; and if he do not bring me the man who really make the cap I will hang him on the tree beside my window . '
The servant be fill with fear at her word , and hasten and tell the smith , who run as fast a he could to seek for Ian .
And when he find him and bring him into the castle , the girl be first struck dumb with joy ; then she declare that she would marry nobody else .
At this some one fetch to her the knight of Grianaig , and when Ian have tell his tale , he vow that the maiden be right , and that his elder daughter should never wed with men who have not only take glory to themselves which do not belong to them , but have leave the real doer of the deed to his fate .
And the wedding guest say that the knight have speak well ; and the two elder brother be fain to leave the country , for no one would converse with them .
The Fox and the Wolf -LSB- From Tales of the West Highlands . -RSB-
At the foot of some high mountain there be , once upon a time , a small village , and a little way off two road meet , one of them go to the east and the other to the west .
The villager be quiet , hard-working folk , who toil in the field all day , and in the evening set out for home when the bell begin to ring in the little church .
In the summer morning they lead out their flock to pasture , and be happy and content from sunrise to sunset .
One summer night , when a round full moon shine down upon the white road , a great wolf come trot round the corner . '
I positively must get a good meal before I go back to my den , ' he say to himself ; ` it be nearly a week since I have taste anything but scrap , though perhaps no one would think it to look at my figure !
Of course there be plenty of rabbit and hare in the mountain ; but indeed one need to be a greyhound to catch them , and I be not so young a I be !
If I could only dine off that fox I saw a fortnight ago , curl up into a delicious hairy ball , I should ask nothing well ; I would have eat her then , but unluckily her husband be lie beside her , and one know that fox , great and small , run like the wind .
Really it seem a if there be not a living creature leave for me to prey upon but a wolf , and , a the proverb say : `` One wolf do not bite another . ''
However , let u see what this village can produce .
I be as hungry a a schoolmaster . '
Now , while these thought be run through the mind of the wolf , the very fox he have be think of be gallop along the other road .
` The whole of this day I have listen to those village hens cluck till I could bear it no longer , ' murmur she a she bound along , hardly seem to touch the ground .
` When you be fond of fowl and egg it be the sweet of all music .
As sure a there be a sun in heaven I will have some of them this night , for I have grow so thin that my very bones rattle , and my poor baby be cry for food . '
And a she speak she reach a little plot of grass , where the two road join , and fling herself under a tree to take a little rest , and to settle her plan .
At this moment the wolf come up .
At the sight of the fox lie within his grasp his mouth begin to water , but his joy be somewhat checked when he notice how thin she be .
The fox 's quick ear hear the sound of his paw , though they be soft a velvet , and turn her head she say politely : ` Is that you , neighbour ?
What a strange place to meet in !
I hope you be quite well ? '
` Quite well a regard my health , ' answer the wolf , whose eye glisten greedily , ` at least , as well a one can be when one be very hungry .
But what be the matter with you ?
A fortnight ago you be as plump a heart could wish ! ' '
I have be ill -- very ill , ' reply the fox , ` and what you say be quite true .
A worm be fat in comparison with me . '
` He be .
Still , you be good enough for me ; for `` to the hungry no bread be hard . '' '
` Oh , you be always joke !
I 'm sure you be not half as hungry a I ! '
` That we shall soon see , ' cry the wolf , open his huge mouth and crouching for a spring .
` What be you do ? '
exclaim the fox , step backwards .
` What be I do ?
What I be go to do be to make my supper off you , in less time than a cock take to crow . '
` Well , I suppose you must have your joke , ' answer the fox lightly , but never remove her eye from the wolf , who reply with a snarl which show all his teeth : ' I do n't want to joke , but to eat ! '
` But surely a person of your talent must perceive that you might eat me to the very last morsel and never know that you have swallow anything at all ! '
` In this world the clever people be always the hungry , ' reply the wolf .
` Ah !
how true that be ; but -- ' ' I ca n't stop to listen to your `` buts '' and `` yets , '' ' broke in the wolf rudely ; ` let u get to the point , and the point be that I want to eat you and not talk to you . '
` Have you no pity for a poor mother ? '
ask the fox , put her tail to her eye , but peep slily out of them all the same . '
I be die of hunger , ' answer the wolf , doggedly ; ` and you know , ' he add with a grin , ` that charity begin at home . '
` Quite so , ' reply the fox ; ` it would be unreasonable of me to object to your satisfy your appetite at my expense .
But if the fox resign herself to the sacrifice , the mother offer you one last request . '
` Then be quick and do n't waste my time , for I ca n't wait much longer .
What be it you want ? '
` You must know , ' say the fox , ` that in this village there be a rich man who make in the summer enough cheese to last him for the whole year , and keep them in an old well , now dry , in his courtyard .
By the well hang two bucket on a pole that be use , in former day , to draw up water .
For many night I have creep down to the palace , and have lower myself in the bucket , bring home with me enough cheese to fee the child .
All I beg of you be to come with me , and , instead of hunt chicken and such thing , I will make a good meal off cheese before I die . '
` But the cheese may be all finish by now ? '
` If you be only to see the quantity of them ! '
laugh the fox .
` And even if they be finish , there would always be ME to eat . '
` Well , I will come .
Lead the way , but I warn you that if you try to escape or play any trick you be reckon without your host -- that be to say , without my leg , which be as long a yours ! '
All be silent in the village , and not a light be to be see but that of the moon , which shine bright and clear in the sky .
The wolf and the fox creep softly along , when suddenly they stop and look at each other ; a savoury smell of fry bacon reach their nose , and reach the nose of the sleep dog , who begin to bark greedily .
` Is it safe to go on , think you ? '
ask the wolf in a whisper .
And the fox shake her head .
` Not while the dog be bark , ' say she ; ` someone might come out to see if anything be the matter . '
And she sign to the wolf to curl himself up in the shadow beside her .
In about half an hour the dog grow tire of barking , or perhaps the bacon be eat up and there be no smell to excite them .
Then the wolf and the fox jump up , and hasten to the foot of the wall . '
I be lighter than he be , ' think the fox to herself , ` and perhaps if I make haste I can get a start , and jump over the wall on the other side before he manage to spring over this one . '
And she quicken her pace .
But if the wolf could not run he could jump , and with one bound he be beside his companion .
` What be you go to do , comrade ? '
` Oh , nothing , ' reply the fox , much vexed at the failure of her plan . '
I think if I be to take a bit out of your haunch you would jump well , ' say the wolf , give a snap at her a he speak .
The fox draw back uneasily .
` Be careful , or I shall scream , ' she snarl .
And the wolf , understand all that might happen if the fox carry out her threat , give a signal to his companion to leap on the wall , where he immediately follow her .
Once on the top they crouch down and look about them .
Not a creature be to be see in the courtyard , and in the furthest corner from the house stand the well , with it two bucket suspend from a pole , just a the fox have describe it .
The two thief drag themselves noiselessly along the wall till they be opposite the well , and by stretch out her neck as far a it would go the fox be able to make out that there be only very little water in the bottom , but just enough to reflect the moon , big , and round and yellow .
` How lucky ! '
cry she to the wolf .
` There be a huge cheese about the size of a mill wheel .
Look !
look !
do you ever see anything so beautiful ! '
` Never ! '
answer the wolf , peer over in his turn , his eye glisten greedily , for he imagine that the moon 's reflection in the water be really a cheese .
` And now , unbeliever , what have you to say ? '
and the fox laugh gently .
` That you be a woman -- I mean a fox -- of your word , ' reply the wolf .
` Well , then , go down in that bucket and eat your fill , ' say the fox .
` Oh , be that your game ? '
ask the wolf , with a grin .
` No !
no !
The person who go down in the bucket will be you !
And if you do n't go down your head will go without you ! '
` Of course I will go down , with the great pleasure , ' answer the fox , who have expect the wolf 's reply .
` And be sure you do n't eat all the cheese , or it will be the bad for you , ' continue the wolf .
But the fox look up at him with tear in her eye .
` Farewell , suspicious one ! '
she say sadly .
And climb into the bucket .
In an instant she have reach the bottom of the well , and find that the water be not deep enough to cover her leg .
` Why , it be large and rich than I think , ' cry she , turn towards the wolf , who be lean over the wall of the well .
` Then be quick and bring it up , ' command the wolf .
` How can I , when it weigh more than I do ? '
ask the fox .
` If it be so heavy bring it in two bit , of course , ' say he .
` But I have no knife , ' answer the fox .
` You will have to come down yourself , and we will carry it up between u . '
` And how be I to come down ? '
inquire the wolf .
` Oh , you be really very stupid !
Get into the other bucket that be nearly over your head . '
The wolf look up , and saw the bucket hang there , and with some difficulty he climb into it .
As he weigh at least four time as much a the fox the bucket go down with a jerk , and the other bucket , in which the fox be seat , come to the surface .
As soon a he understand what be happen , the wolf begin to speak like an angry wolf , but be a little comforted when he remember that the cheese still remain to him .
` But where be the cheese ? '
he ask of the fox , who in her turn be lean over the parapet watch his proceeding with a smile .
` The cheese ? '
answer the fox ; ` why I be take it home to my baby , who be too young to get food for themselves . '
` Ah , traitor ! '
cry the wolf , howl with rage .
But the fox be not there to hear this insult , for she have go off to a neighbouring fowl-house , where she have notice some fat young chicken the day before .
` Perhaps I do treat him rather badly , ' she say to herself .
` But it seem get cloudy , and if there should be heavy rain the other bucket will fill and sink to the bottom , and his will go up -- at least it may ! '
How Ian Direach Got the Blue Falcon -LSB- From Cuentos Populares , por Antonio de Trueba . -RSB-
Long ago a king and queen rule over the island of the west , and they have one son , whom they love dearly .
The boy grow up to be tall and strong and handsome , and he could run and shoot , and swim and dive well than any lad of his own age in the country .
Besides , he know how to sail about , and sing song to the harp , and during the winter evening , when everyone be gather round the huge hall fire shape bow or weave cloth , Ian Direach would tell them tale of the deed of his father .
So the time slip by till Ian be almost a man , a they reckon men in those day , and then his mother the queen die .
There be great mourn throughout all the isle , and the boy and his father mourn her bitterly also ; but before the new year come the king have marry another wife , and seem to have forget his old one .
Only Ian remember .
On a morning when the leaf be yellow in the tree of the glen , Ian sling his bow over his shoulder , and fill his quiver with arrow , go on to the hill in search of game .
But not a bird be to be see anywhere , till at length a blue falcon fly past him , and raise his bow he take aim at her .
His eye be straight and his hand steady , but the falcon 's flight be swift , and he only shoot a feather from her wing .
As the sun be now low over the sea he put the feather in his game bag , and set out homewards .
` Have you bring me much game to-day ? '
ask his stepmother a he enter the hall .
` Nought save this , ' he answer , hand her the feather of the blue falcon , which she hold by the tip and gaze at silently .
Then she turn to Ian and say : ' I be set it on you a cross and a spell , and a the fall of the year !
That you may always be cold , and wet and dirty , and that your shoe may ever have pool in them , till you bring me hither the blue falcon on which that feather grow . '
` If it be spell you be lay I can lay them too , ' answered Ian Direach ; ` and you shall stand with one foot on the great house and another on the castle , till I come back again , and your face shall be to the wind , from wheresoever it shall blow . '
Then he go away to seek the bird , a his stepmother bid him ; and , look homewards from the hill , he saw the queen stand with one foot on the great house , and the other on the castle , and her face turn towards whatever tempest should blow .
On he journey , over hill , and through river till he reach a wide plain , and never a glimpse do he catch of the falcon .
Darker and darker it grow , and the small bird be seek their nest , and at length Ian Direach could see no more , and he lay down under some bush and sleep come to him .
And in his dream a soft nose touch him , and a warm body curl up beside him , and a low voice whisper to him : ` Fortune be against you , Ian Direach ; I have but the cheek and the hoof of a sheep to give you , and with these you must be content . '
With that Ian Direach awake , and behold Gille Mairtean the fox .
Between them they kindle a fire , and eat their supper .
Then Gille Mairtean the fox bade Ian Direach lie down a before , and sleep till morning .
And in the morning , when he awake , Gille Mairtean say : ` The falcon that you seek be in the keep of the Giant of the Five Heads , and the Five Necks , and the Five Humps .
I will show you the way to his house , and I counsel you to do his bidding , nimbly and cheerfully , and , above all , to treat his bird kindly , for in this manner he may give you his falcon to fee and care for .
And when this happen , wait till the giant be out of his house ; then throw a cloth over the falcon and bear her away with you .
Only see that not one of her feather touch anything within the house , or evil will befall you . ' '
I thank you for your counsel , ' spake Ian Direach , ` and I will be careful to follow it . '
Then he take the path to the giant 's house .
` Who be there ? '
cry the giant , a someone knock loudly on the door of his house .
` One who seek work a a servant , ' answered Ian Direach .
` And what can you do ? '
ask the giant again . '
I can fee bird and tend pig ; I can fee and milk a cow , and also goat and sheep , if you have any of these , ' reply Ian Direach .
` Then enter , for I have great need of such a one , ' say the giant .
So Ian Direach enter , and tend so well and carefully all the bird and beast , that the giant be well satisfy than ever he have be , and at length he think that he might even be trust to fee the falcon .
And the heart of Ian be glad , and he tend the blue falcon till his father shine like the sky , and the giant be well pleased ; and one day he say to him : ` For long my brother on the other side of the mountain have beseech me to visit them , but never could I go for fear of my falcon .
Now I think I can leave her with you for one day , and before nightfall I shall be back again . '
Scarcely be the giant out of sight next morning when Ian Direach seize the falcon , and throw a cloth over her head hasten with her to the door .
But the ray of the sun pierce through the thickness of the cloth , and a they pass the doorpost she give a spring , and the tip of one of her feather touch the post , which give a scream , and bring the giant back in three stride .
Ian Direach tremble a he saw him ; but the giant only say : ` If you wish for my falcon you must first bring me the White Sword of Light that be in the house of the Big Women of Dhiurradh . '
` And where do they live ? '
ask Ian .
But the giant answer : ` Ah , that be for you to discover . '
And Ian dare say no more , and hasten down to the waste .
There , a he hop , he meet his friend Gille Mairtean the fox , who bid him eat his supper and lie down to sleep .
And when he have waken next morning the fox say to him : ` Let u go down to the shore of the sea . '
And to the shore of the sea they go .
And after they have reach the shore , and behold the sea stretch before them , and the isle of Dhiurradh in the midst of it , the soul of Ian sank , and he turn to Gille Mairtean and ask why he have bring him thither , for the giant , when he have send him , have know full well that without a boat he could never find the Big Women .
` Do not be cast down , ' answer the fox , ` it be quite easy !
I will change myself into a boat , and you shall go on board me , and I will carry you over the sea to the Seven Big Women of Dhiurradh .
Tell them that you be skilled in brighten silver and gold , and in the end they will take you a servant , and if you be careful to please them they will give you the White Sword of Light to make bright and shining .
But when you seek to steal it , take heed that it sheath touch nothing inside the house , or ill will befall you . '
So Ian Direach do all thing a the fox have tell him , and the Seven Big Women of Dhiurradh take him for their servant , and for six week he work so hard that his seven mistress say to each other : ` Never have a servant have the skill to make all bright and shin like this one .
Let u give him the White Sword of Light to polish like the rest . '
Then they bring forth the White Sword of Light from the iron closet where it hang , and bid him rub it till he could see his face in the shining blade ; and he do so .
But one day , when the Seven Big Women be out of the way , he bethink him that the moment have come for him to carry off the sword , and , replace it in it sheath , he hoist it on his shoulder .
But just a he be pass through the door the tip of the sheath touch it , and the door give a loud shriek .
And the Big Women hear it , and come run back , and take the sword from him , and say : ` If it be our sword you want , you must first bring u the bay colt of the King of Erin . '
Humbled and ashamed , Ian Direach leave the house , and sat by the side of the sea , and soon Gille Mairtean the fox come to him .
` Plainly I see that you have take no heed to my word , Ian Direach , ' speak the fox .
` But eat first , and yet once more will I help you . '
At these word the heart return again to Ian Direach , and he gather stick and make a fire and ate with Gille Mairtean the fox , and sleep on the sand .
At dawn next morning Gille Mairtean say to Ian Direach : ' I will change myself into a ship , and will bear you across the sea to Erin , to the land where dwell the king .
And you shall offer yourself to serve in his stable , and to tend his horse , till at length so well content be he , that he give you the bay colt to wash and brush .
But when you run away with her see that nought except the sol of her hoof touch anything within the palace gate , or it will go ill with you . '
After he have thus counsel Ian Direach , the fox change himself into a ship , and set sail for Erin .
And the king of that country give into Ian Direach 's hand the care of his horse , and never before do their skin shine so brightly or be their pace so swift .
And the king be well pleased , and at the end of a month he send for Ian and say to him : ` You have give me faithful service , and now I will entrust you with the most precious thing that my kingdom hold . '
And when he have speak , he lead Ian Direach to the stable where stand the bay colt .
And Ian rub her and feed her , and gallop with her all round the country , till he could leave one wind behind him and catch the other which be in front . '
I be go away to hunt , ' say the king one morning while he be watch Ian tend the bay colt in her stable .
` The deer have come down from the hill , and it be time for me to give them chase . '
Then he go away ; and when he be no longer in sight , Ian Direach lead the bay colt out of the stable , and sprang on her back .
But a they ride through the gate , which stand between the palace and the outer world , the colt swish her tail against the post , which shriek loudly .
In a moment the king come run up , and he seize the colt 's bridle .
` If you want my bay colt , you must first bring me the daughter of the king of the Franks . '
With slow step go Ian Direach down to the shore where Gille Mairtean the fox await him .
` Plainly I see that you have not do a I bid you , nor will you ever do it , ' speak Gille Mairtean the fox ; ` but I will help you yet again for a third time I will change myself into a ship , and we will sail to France . '
And to France they sail , and , a he be the ship , the Gille Mairtean sail where he would , and run himself into the cleft of a rock , high on to the land .
Then , he command Ian Direach to go up to the king 's palace , say that he have be wreck , that his ship be make fast in a rock , and that none have be save but himself only .
Ian Direach listen to the word of the fox , and he tell a tale so pitiful , that the king and queen , and the princess their daughter , all come out to hear it .
And when they have hear , nought would please them except to go down to the shore and visit the ship , which by now be float , for the tide be up .
Torn and batter be she , a if she have pass through many danger , yet music of a wondrous sweetness pour forth from within .
` Bring hither a boat , ' cry the princess , ` that I may go and see for myself the harp that give forth such music . '
And a boat be bring , and Ian Direach step in to row it to the side of the ship .
To the further side he row , so that none could see , and when he help the princess on board he give a push to the boat , so that she could not get back to it again .
And the music sound always sweeter , though they could never see whence it come , and seek it from one part of the vessel to another .
When at last they reach the deck and look around them , nought of land could they see , or anything save the rushing water .
The princess stand silent , and her face grow grim .
At last she say : ` An ill trick have you play me !
What be this that you have do , and whither be we go ? '
` It be a queen you will be , ' answered Ian Direach , ` for the king of Erin have send me for you , and in return he will give me his bay colt , that I may take him to the Seven Big Women of Dhiurradh , in exchange for the White Sword of Light .
This I must carry to the giant of the Five Heads and Five Necks and Five Humps , and , in place of it , he will bestow on me the blue falcon , which I have promise my stepmother , so that she may free me from the spell which she have lay on me . ' '
I would rather be wife to you , ' answer the princess .
By-and-by the ship sail into a harbour on the coast of Erin , and cast anchor there .
And Gille Mairtean the fox bade Ian Direach tell the princess that she must bide yet a while in a cave amongst the rock , for they have business on land , and after a while they would return to her .
Then they take a boat and row up to some rock , and a they touch the land Gille Mairtean change himself into a fair woman , who laugh , and say to Ian Direach , ' I will give the king a fine wife . '
Now the king of Erin have be hunt on the hill , and when he saw a strange ship sailing towards the harbour , he guess that it might be Ian Direach , and leave his hunting , and run down to the hill to the stable .
Hastily he lead the bay colt from his stall , and put the golden saddle on her back , and the silver bridle over his head , and with the colt 's bridle in his hand , he hurry to meet the princess . '
I have bring you the king of France 's daughter , ' say Ian Direach .
And the king of Erin look at the maiden , and be well pleased , not know that it be Gille Mairtean the fox .
And he bow low , and beseech her to do him the honour to enter the palace ; and Gille Mairtean , a he go in , turn to look back at Ian Direach , and laugh .
In the great hall the king pause and point to an iron chest which stand in a corner .
` In that chest be the crown that have wait for you for many year , ' he say , ` and at last you have come for it . '
And he stoop down to unlock the box .
In an instant Gille Mairtean the fox have spring on his back , and give him such a bite that he fell down unconscious .
Quickly the fox take his own shape again , and gallop away to the sea shore , where Ian Direach and the princess and the bay colt await him . '
I will become a ship , ' cry Gille Mairtean , ` and you shall go on board me . '
And so he do , and Ian Direach let the bay colt into the ship and the princess go after them , and they set sail for Dhiurradh .
The wind be behind them , and very soon they saw the rock of Dhiurradh in front .
Then speak Gille Mairtean the fox : ` Let the bay colt and the king 's daughter hide in these rock , and I will change myself into the colt , and go with you to the house of the Seven Big Women . '
Joy file the heart of the Big Women when they behold the bay colt lead up to their door by Ian Direach .
And the young of them fetch the White Sword of Light , and give it into the hand of Ian Direach , who take off the golden saddle and the silver bridle , and go down the hill with the sword to the place where the princess and the real colt await him .
` Now we shall have the ride that we have long for ! '
cry the Seven Big Women ; and they saddle and bridle the colt , and the eldest one get upon the saddle .
Then the second sister sit on the back of the first , and the third on the back of the second , and so on for the whole seven .
And when they be all seat , the eldest strike her side with a whip and the colt bound forward .
Over the moor she fly , and round and round the mountain , and still the Big Women clung to her and snort with pleasure .
At last she leap high in the air , and come down on top of Monadh the high hill , where the crag be .
And she rest her fore foot on the crag , and throw up her hind leg , and the Seven Big Women fell over the crag , and be dead when they reach the bottom .
And the colt laugh , and become a fox again and gallop away to the sea shore , where Ian Direach , and the princess and the real colt and the White Sword of Light be await him . '
I will make myself into a ship , ' say Gille Mairtean the fox , ` and will carry you and the princess , and the bay colt and the White Sword of Light , back to the land . '
And when the shore be reach , Gille Mairtean the fox take back his own shape , and speak to Ian Direach in this wise : ` Let the princess and the White Sword of Light , and the bay colt , remain among the rock , and I will change myself into the likeness of the White Sword of Light , and you shall bear me to the giant , and , instead , he will give you the blue falcon . '
And Ian Direach do a the fox bid him , and set out for the giant 's castle .
From afar the giant behold the blaze of the White Sword of Light , and his heart rejoice ; and he take the blue falcon and put it in a basket , and give it to Ian Direach , who bore it swiftly away to the place where the princess , and the bay colt , and the real Sword of Light be await him .
So well content be the giant to possess the sword he have covet for many a year , that he begin at once to whirl it through the air , and to cut and slash with it .
For a little while Gille Mairtean let the giant play with him in this manner ; then he turn in the giant 's hand , and cut through the Five Necks , so that the Five Heads roll on the ground .
Afterwards he go back to Ian Direach and say to him : ` Saddle the colt with the golden saddle , and bridle her with the silver bridle , and sling the basket with the falcon over your shoulder , and hold the White Sword of Light with it back against your nose .
Then mount the colt , and let the princess mount behind you , and ride thus to your father 's palace .
But see that the back of the sword be ever against your nose , else when your stepmother beholds you , she will change you into a dry faggot .
If , however , you do a I bid you , she will become herself a bundle of stick . '
Ian Direach hearken to the word of Gille Mairtean , and his stepmother fell a a bundle of stick before him ; and he set fire to her , and be free from her spell for ever .
After that he marry the princess , who be the best wife in all the island of the West .
Henceforth he be safe from harm , for have he not the bay colt who could leave one wind behind her and catch the other wind , and the blue falcon to bring him game to eat , and the White Sword of Light to pierce through his foe ?
And Ian Direach know that all this he owe to Gille Mairtean the fox , and he make a compact with him that he might choose any beast out of his herd , whenever hunger seize him , and that henceforth no arrow should be let fly at him or at any of his race .
But Gille Mairtean the fox would take no reward for the help he have give to Ian Direach , only his friendship .
Thus all thing prosper with Ian Direach till he die .
The Ugly Duckling -LSB- From Tales of the West Highlands . -RSB-
It be summer in the land of Denmark , and though for most of the year the country look flat and ugly , it be beautiful now .
The wheat be yellow , the oat be green , the hay be dry and delicious to roll in , and from the old ruin house which nobody live in , down to the edge of the canal , be a forest of great burdock , so tall that a whole family of child might have dwell in them and never have be find out .
It be under these burdock that a duck have build herself a warm nest , and be not sit all day on six pretty egg .
Five of them be white , but the sixth , which be large than the others , be of an ugly grey colour .
The duck be always puzzle about that egg , and how it come to be so different from the rest .
Other bird might have think that when the duck go down in the morning and evening to the water to stretch her leg in a good swim , some lazy mother might have be on the watch , and have pop her egg into the nest .
But duck be not clever at all , and be not quick at counting , so this duck do not worry herself about the matter , but just take care that the big egg should be as warm a the rest .
This be the first set of egg that the duck have ever lay , and , to begin with , she be very pleased and proud , and laugh at the other mother , who be always neglect their duty to gossip with each other or to take little extra swim besides the two in the morning and evening that be necessary for health .
But at length she grow tired of sit there all day .
` Surely eggs take longer hatch than they do , ' she say to herself ; and she pin for a little amusement also .
Still , she know that if she leave her egg and the duckling in them to die none of her friend would ever speak to her again ; so there she stay , only get off the eggs several time a day to see if the shell be crack -- which may have be the very reason why they do not crack sooner .
She have look at the egg at least a hundred and fifty time , when , to her joy , she saw a tiny crack on two of them , and scramble back to the nest she draw the egg closer the one to the other , and never move for the whole of that day .
Next morning she be reward by notice crack in the whole five egg , and by midday two little yellow head be poke out from the shell .
This encourage her so much that , after break the shell with her bill , so that the little creature could get free of them , she sit steadily for a whole night upon the nest , and before the sun arise the five white egg be empty , and ten pair of eye be gaze out upon the green world .
Now the duck have be carefully bring up , and do not like dirt , and , besides , broken shell be not at all comfortable thing to sit or walk upon ; so she push the rest out over the side , and felt delight to have some company to talk to till the big egg hatch .
But day after day go on , and the big egg show no sign of cracking , and the duck grow more and more impatient , and begin to wish to consult her husband , who never come . '
I ca n't think what be the matter with it , ' the duck grumble to her neighbour who have call in to pay her a visit .
` Why I could have hatch two brood in the time that this one have take ! '
` Let me look at it , ' say the old neighbour .
` Ah , I think so ; it be a turkey 's egg .
Once , when I be young , they trick me to sit on a brood of turkey 's egg myself , and when they be hatch the creature be so stupid that nothing would make them learn to swim .
I have no patience when I think of it . '
` Well , I will give it another chance , ' sigh the duck , ` and if it do not come out of it shell in another twenty-four hour , I will just leave it alone and teach the rest of them to swim properly and to find their own food .
I really ca n't be expect to do two thing at once . '
And with a fluff of her feather she push the egg into the middle of the nest .
All through the next day she sit on , give up even her morning bath for fear that a blast of cold might strike the big egg .
In the evening , when she venture to peep , she think she saw a tiny crack in the upper part of the shell .
Filled with hope , she go back to her duty , though she could hardly sleep all night for excitement .
When she wake with the first steak of light she felt something stir under her .
Yes , there it be at last ; and a she move , a big awkward bird tumble head foremost on the ground .
There be no deny it be ugly , even the mother be force to admit that to herself , though she only say it be ` large ' and ` strong . '
` You wo n't need any teaching when you be once in the water , ' she tell him , with a glance of surprise at the dull brown which cover his back , and at his long naked neck .
And indeed he do not , though he be not half so pretty to look at a the little yellow ball that follow her .
When they return they find the old neighbour on the bank wait for them to take them into the duckyard .
` No , it be not a young turkey , certainly , ' whisper she in confidence to the mother , ` for though it be lean and skinny , and have no colour to speak of , yet there be something rather distinguish about it , and it hold it head up well . '
` It be very kind of you to say so , ' answer the mother , who by this time have some secret doubt of it loveliness .
` Of course , when you see it by itself it be all right , though it be different , somehow , from the others .
But one can not expect all one 's child to be beautiful ! '
By this time they have reach the centre of the yard , where a very old duck be sit , who be treat with great respect by all the fowls present .
` You must go up and bow low before her , ' whisper the mother to her child , nod her head in the direction of the old lady , ` and keep your leg well apart , a you see me do .
No well-bred duckling turn in it toe .
It be a sign of common parent . '
The little duck try hard to make their small fat body copy the movement of their mother , and the old lady be quite pleased with them ; but the rest of the duck look on discontentedly , and say to each other : ` Oh , dear me , here be ever so many more !
The yard be full already ; and do you ever see anything quite as ugly a that great tall creature ?
He be a disgrace to any brood .
I shall go and chase him out ! '
So say she put up her feather , and run to the big duckling bit his neck .
The duckling give a loud quack ; it be the first time he have felt any pain , and at the sound his mother turn quickly .
` Leave him alone , ' she say fiercely , ` or I will send for his father .
He be not trouble you . '
` No ; but he be so ugly and awkward no one can put up with him , ' answer the stranger .
And though the duckling do not understand the meaning of the word , he felt he be be blame , and become more uncomfortable still when the old Spanish duck who rule the fowlyard struck in : ` It certainly be a great pity he be so different from these beautiful darling .
If he could only be hatch over again ! '
The poor little fellow droop his head , and do not know where to look , but be comfort when his mother answer : ` He may not be quite as handsome a the others , but he swim good , and be very strong ; I be sure he will make his way in the world as well a anybody . '
` Well , you must feel quite at home here , ' say the old duck waddle off .
And so they do , all except the duckling , who be snap at by everyone when they think his mother be not look .
Even the turkey-cock , who be so big , never pass him without mock word , and his brother and sister , who would not have notice any difference unless it have be put into their head , soon become a rude and unkind a the rest .
At last he could bear it no longer , and one day he fancy he saw sign of his mother turn against him too ; so that night , when the duck and hen be still asleep , he steal away through an open door , and under cover of the burdock leave scramble on by the bank of the canal , till he reach a wide grassy moor , full of soft marshy place where the reed grow .
Here he lay down , but he be too tired and too frightened to fall asleep , and with the early peep of the sun the reed begin to rustle , and he saw that he have blunder into a colony of wild duck .
But a he could not run away again he stand up and bow politely .
` You be ugly , ' say the wild duck , when they have look him well over ; ` but , however , it be no business of ours , unless you wish to marry one of our daughter , and that we should not allow . '
And the duckling answer that he have no idea of marry anybody , and want nothing but to be leave alone after his long journey .
So for two whole day he lay quietly among the reed , eat such food a he could find , and drink the water of the moorland pool , till he felt himself quite strong again .
He wish he might stay be he be for ever , he be so comfortable and happy , away from everyone , with nobody to bite him and tell him how ugly he be .
He be think these thought , when two young gander catch sight of him a they be have their evening splash among the reed , look for their supper .
` We be get tire of this moor , ' they say , ` and to-morrow we think of try another , where the lake be large and the feeding well .
Will you come with u ? '
` Is it nicer than this ? '
ask the duckling doubtfully .
And the word be hardly out of his mouth , when ` Pif !
pah ! '
and the two new-comers be stretch dead beside him .
At the sound of the gun the wild duck in the rush fly into the air , and for a few minute the fire continue .
Luckily for himself the duckling could not fly , and he flounder along through the water till he could hide himself amidst some tall fern which grow in a hollow .
But before he get there he meet a huge creature on four leg , which he afterwards know to be a dog , who stand and gaze at him with a long red tongue hang out of his mouth .
The duckling grow cold with terror , and try to hide his head beneath his little wing ; but the dog snuff at him and pass on , and he be able to reach his place of shelter . '
I be too ugly even for a dog to eat , ' say he to himself .
` Well , that be a great mercy . '
And he curl himself up in the soft grass till the shot die away in the distance .
When all have be quiet for a long time , and there be only star to see him , he creep out and look about him .
He would never go near a pool again , never , think he ; and see that the moor stretch far away in the opposite direction from which he have come , he march bravely on till he get to a small cottage , which seem too tumbledown for the stone to hold together many hour longer .
Even the door only hang upon one hinge , and a the only light in the room sprang from a tiny fire , the duckling edge himself cautiously in , and lay down under a chair close to the broken door , from which he could get out if necessary .
But no one seem to see him or smell him ; so he spend the rest of the night in peace .
Now in the cottage dwell an old woman , her cat , and a hen ; and it be really they , and not she , who be master of the house .
The old woman , who pass all her day in spin yarn , which she sell at the near town , love both the cat and the hen a her own child , and never contradict them in any way ; so it be their grace , and not hers , that the duckling would have to gain .
It be only next morning , when it grow light , that they notice their visitor , who stand tremble before them , with his eye on the door ready to escape at any moment .
They do not , however , appear very fierce , and the duckling become less afraid a they approach him .
` Can you lay egg ? '
ask the hen .
And the duckling answer meekly : ` No ; I do n't know how . '
Upon which the hen turn her back , and the cat come forward .
` Can you ruffle your fur when you be angry , or purr when you be please ? '
say she .
And again the duckling have to admit that he could do nothing but swim , which do not seem of much use to anybody .
So the cat and the hen go straight off to the old woman , who be still in bed .
` Such a useless creature have take refuge here , ' they say .
` It call itself a duckling ; but it can neither lay egg nor purr !
What have we well do with it ? '
` Keep it , to be sure ! '
reply the old woman briskly .
` It be all nonsense about it not lay egg .
Anyway , we will let it stay here for a bit , and see what happen . '
So the duckling remain for three week , and share the food of the cat and the hen ; but nothing in the way of egg happen at all .
Then the sun come out , and the air grow soft , and the duckling grow tired of be in a hut , and want with all his might to have a swim .
And one morning he get so restless that even his friend notice it .
` What be the matter ? '
ask the hen ; and the duckling tell her . '
I be so long for the water again .
You ca n't think how delicious it be to put your head under the water and dive straight to the bottom . ' '
I do n't think I should enjoy it , ' reply the hen doubtfully .
` And I do n't think the cat would like it either . '
And the cat , when ask , agree there be nothing she would hate so much . '
I ca n't stay here any long , I Must get to the water , ' repeat the duck .
And the cat and the hen , who felt hurt and offend , answer shortly : ` Very well then , go . '
The duckling would have like to say good-bye , and thank them for their kindness , a he be polite by nature ; but they have both turn their back on him , so he go out of the rickety door feel rather sad .
But , in spite of himself , he could not help a thrill of joy when he be out in the air and water once more , and care little for the rude glance of the creature he meet .
For a while he be quite happy and content ; but soon the winter come on , and snow begin to fall , and everything to grow very wet and uncomfortable .
And the duckling soon find that it be one thing to enjoy be in the water , and quite another to like be damp on land .
The sun be set one day , like a great scarlet globe , and the river , to the duckling 's vast bewilderment , be get hard and slippery , when he hear a sound of whir wing , and high up in the air a flock of swan be fly .
They be as white a snow which have fall during the night , and their long neck with yellow bill be stretch southward , for they be go -- they do not quite know whither -- but to a land where the sun shone all day .
Oh , if he only could have go with them !
But that be not possible , of course ; and besides , what sort of companion could an ugly thing like him be to those beautiful being ?
So he walk sadly down to a sheltered pool and dive to the very bottom , and try to think it be the great happiness he could dream of .
But , all the same , he know it be n't !
And every morning it grow colder and colder , and the duckling have hard work to keep himself warm .
Indeed , it would be truer to say that he never be warm at all ; and at last , after one bitter night , his leg move so slowly that the ice creep closer and closer , and when the morning light break he be catch fast , a in a trap ; and soon his sens go from him .
A few hour more and the poor duckling 's life have be end .
But , by good fortune , a man be cross the river on his way to his work , and saw in a moment what have happen .
He have on thick wooden shoe , and he go and stamp so hard on the ice that it break , and then he pick up the duckling and tuck him under his sheepskin coat , where his frozen bone begin to thaw a little .
Instead of go on his work , the man turn back and take the bird to his child , who give him a warm mess to eat and put him in a box by the fire , and when they come back from school he be much more comfortable than he have be since he have leave the old woman 's cottage .
They be kind little child , and want to play with him ; but , ala !
the poor fellow have never play in his life , and think they want to tease him , and fly straight into the milk-pan , and then into the butter-dish , and from that into the meal-barrel , and at last , terrify at the noise and confusion , right out of the door , and hid himself in the snow amongst the bush at the back of the house .
He never could tell afterwards exactly how he have spend the rest of the winter .
He only know that he be very miserable and that he never have enough to eat .
But by-and-by thing grow well .
The earth become soft , the sun hotter , the bird sang , and the flower once more appeared in the grass .
When he stand up , he felt different , somehow , from what he have do before he fell asleep among the reed to which he have wander after he have escape from the peasant 's hut .
His body seem large , and his wing strong .
Something pink look at him from the side of a hill .
He think he would fly towards it and see what it be .
Oh , how glorious it felt to be rush through the air , wheel first one way and then the other !
He have never think that fly could be like that !
The duckling be almost sorry when he draw near the pink cloud and find it be make up of apple blossom grow beside a cottage whose garden run down to the bank of the canal .
He flutter slowly to the ground and pause for a few minute under a thicket of syringa , and while he be gaze about him , there walk slowly past a flock of the same beautiful bird he have see so many month ago .
Fascinated , he watch them one by one step into the canal , and float quietly upon the water a if they be part of them . '
I will follow them , ' say the duckling to himself ; ` ugly though I be , I would rather be kill by them than suffer all I have suffer from cold and hunger , and from the duck and fowl who should have treat me kindly . '
And fly quickly down to the water , he swim after them as fast a he could .
It do not take him long to reach them , for they have stop to rest in a green pool shade by a tree whose branch sweep the water .
And directly they saw him come some of the young one swim out to meet him with cry of welcome , which again the duckling hardly understood .
He approach them glad , yet tremble , and turn to one of the old bird , who by this time have leave the shade of the tree , he say : ` If I be to die , I would rather you should kill me .
I do n't know why I be ever hatch , for I be too ugly to live . '
And a he speak , he bow his head and look down into the water .
Reflected in the still pool he saw many white shape , with long neck and golden bill , and , without thinking , he look for the dull grey body and the awkward skinny neck .
But no such thing be there .
Instead , he behold beneath him a beautiful white swan !
` The new one be the best of all , ' say the child when they come down to fee the swan with biscuit and cake before go to bed .
` His feather be white and his beak more golden than the rest . '
And when he hear that , the duckling thought that it be worth while have undergone all the persecution and loneliness that he have pass through , a otherwise he would never have know what it be to be really happy .
The Two Caskets -LSB- Hans Andersen . -RSB-
Far , far away , in the midst of a pine forest , there live a woman who have both a daughter and a stepdaughter .
Ever since her own daughter be bear the mother have give her all that she cry for , so she grow up to be a cross and disagreeable a she be ugly .
Her stepsister , on the other hand , have spend her childhood in work hard to keep house for her father , who die soon after his second marriage ; and she be as much beloved by the neighbour for her goodness and industry a she be for her beauty .
As the year go on , the difference between the two girl grow more marked , and the old woman treat her stepdaughter worse than ever , and be always on the watch for some pretext for beat her , or deprive her of her food .
Anything , however foolish , be good enough for this , and one day , when she could think of nothing better , she set both the girl to spin while sit on the low wall of the well .
` And you have good mind what you do , ' say she , ` for the one whose thread break first shall be throw to the bottom . '
But of course she take good care that her own daughter 's flax be fine and strong , while the stepsister have only some coarse stuff , which no one would have think of use .
As might be expect , in a very little while the poor girl 's thread snap , and the old woman , who have be watch from behind a door , seize her stepdaughter by her shoulder , and throw her into the well .
` That be an end of you ! '
she say .
But she be wrong , for it be only the beginning .
Down , down , down go the girl -- it seem a if the well must reach to the very middle of the earth ; but at last her foot touch the ground , and she find herself in a field more beautiful than even the summer pasture of her native mountain .
Trees wave in the soft breeze , and flower of the bright colour dance in the grass .
And though she be quite alone , the girl 's heart dance too , for she felt happy than she have since her father die .
So she walk on through the meadow till she come to an old tumbledown fence -- so old that it be a wonder it manage to stand up at all , and it look a if it depend for support on the old man 's beard that climb all over it .
The girl pause for a moment a she come up , and gaze about for a place where she might safely cross .
But before she could move a voice cry from the fence : ` Do not hurt me , little maiden ; I be so old , so old , I have not much longer to live . '
And the maiden answer : ` No , I will not hurt you ; fear nothing . '
And then see a spot where the clematis grow less thickly than in other place , she jump lightly over .
` May all go well with thee , ' say the fence , a the girl walk on .
She soon leave the meadow and turn into a path which run between two flowery hedge .
Right in front of her stood an oven , and through it open door she could see a pile of white loaf .
` Eat a many loaf a you like , but do me no harm , little maiden , ' cry the oven .
And the maiden tell her to fear nothing , for she never hurt anything , and be very grateful for the oven 's kindness in give her such a beautiful white loaf .
When she have finish it , down to the last crumb , she shut the oven door and say : ` Good-morning . '
` May all go well with thee , ' say the oven , a the girl walk on .
By-and-by she become very thirsty , and see a cow with a milk-pail hanging on her horn , turn towards her .
` Milk me and drink as much a you will , little maiden , ' cry the cow , ` but be sure you spill none on the ground ; and do me no harm , for I have never harm anyone . '
` Nor I , ' answer the girl ; ` fear nothing . '
So she sit down and milk till the pail be nearly full .
Then she drink it all up except a little drop at the bottom .
` Now throw any that be leave over my hoof , and hang the pail on my horn again , ' say the cow .
And the girl do a she be bid , and kiss the cow on her forehead and go her way .
Many hour have now pass since the girl have fall down the well , and the sun be set .
` Where shall I spend the night ? '
think she .
And suddenly she saw before her a gate which she have not notice before , and a very old woman lean against it .
` Good evening , ' say the girl politely ; and the old woman answer : ` Good evening , my child .
Would that everyone be as polite a you .
Are you in search of anything ? ' '
I be in search of a place , ' reply the girl ; and the woman smile and say : ` Then stop a little while and comb my hair , and you shall tell me all the thing you can do . '
` Willingly , mother , ' answer the girl .
And she begin comb out the old woman 's hair , which be long and white .
Half an hour pass in this way , and then the old woman say : ` As you do not think yourself too good to comb me , I will show you where you may take service .
Be prudent and patient and all will go well . '
So the girl thank her , and set out for a farm at a little distance , where she be engage to milk the cow and sift the corn .
As soon a it be light next morning the girl get up and go into the cow-house .
` I 'm sure you must be hungry , ' say she , pat each in turn .
And then she fetch hay from the barn , and while they be eat it , she sweep out the cow-house , and strew clean straw upon the floor .
The cow be so pleased with the care she take of them that they stand quite still while she milk them , and do not play any of the trick on her that they have play on other dairymaid who be rough and rude .
And when she have do , and be go to get up from her stool , she find sit round her a whole circle of cat , black and white , tabby and tortoise-shell , who all cry with one voice : ` We be very thirsty , please give u some milk ! '
` My poor little pussy , ' say she , ` of course you shall have some . '
And she go into the dairy , follow by all the cat , and give each one a little red saucerful .
But before they drink they all rub themselves against her knee and purr by way of thanks .
The next thing the girl have to do be to go to the storehouse , and to sift the corn through a sieve .
While she be busy rub the corn she hear a whirr of wing , and a flock of sparrow fly in at the window .
` We be hungry ; give u some corn !
give u some corn ! '
cry they ; and the girl answer : ` You poor little bird , of course you shall have some ! '
and scatter a fine handful over the floor .
When they have finish they fly on her shoulder and flap their wing by way of thanks .
Time go by , and no cow in the whole country-side be so fat and well tend a hers , and no dairy have so much milk to show .
The farmer 's wife be so well satisfied that she give her high wage , and treat her like her own daughter .
At length , one day , the girl be bid by her mistress to come into the kitchen , and when there , the old woman say to her : ' I know you can tend cow and keep a diary ; now let me see what you can do besides .
Take this sieve to the well , and fill it with water , and bring it home to me without spill one drop by the way . '
The girl 's heart sank at this order ; for how be it possible for her to do her mistress 's bidding ?
However , she be silent , and take the sieve go down to the well with it .
Stopping over the side , she fill it to the brim , but as soon a she lift it the water all run out of the hole .
Again and again she try , but not a drop would remain in the sieve , and she be just turn away in despair when a flock of sparrow fly down from the sky .
` Ashes !
ash ! '
they twitter ; and the girl look at them and say : ` Well , I ca n't be in a bad plight than I be already , so I will take your advice . '
And she run back to the kitchen and fill her sieve with ash .
Then once more she dip the sieve into the well , and , behold , this time not a drop of water disappear !
` Here be the sieve , mistress , ' cry the girl , go to the room where the old woman be sit .
` You be clever than I expect , ' answer she ; ` or else someone help you who be skilled in magic . '
But the girl keep silence , and the old woman ask her no more question .
Many day pass during which the girl go about her work as usual , but at length one day the old woman call her and say : ' I have something more for you to do .
There be here two yarn , the one white , the other black .
What you must do be to wash them in the river till the black one become white and the white black . '
And the girl take them to the river and wash hard for several hour , but wash a she would they never change one whit .
` This be bad than the sieve , ' think she , and be about to give up in despair when there come a rush of wing through the air , and on every twig of the birch tree which grow by the bank be perch a sparrow .
` The black to the east , the white to the west ! '
they sing , all at once ; and the girl dry her tear and felt brave again .
Picking up the black yarn , she stand face the east and dip it in the river , and in an instant it grow white a snow , then turn to the west , she hold the white yarn in the water , and it become as black a a crow 's wing .
She look back at the sparrow and smile and nod to them , and flap their wing in reply they fly swiftly away .
At the sight of the yarn the old woman be strike dumb ; but when at length she find her voice she ask the girl what magician have help her to do what no one have do before .
But she get no answer , for the maiden be afraid of bring trouble on her little friend .
For many week the mistress shut herself up in her room , and the girl go about her work as usual .
She hop that there be an end to the difficult task which have be set her ; but in this she be mistake , for one day the old woman appear suddenly in the kitchen , and say to her : ` There be one more trial to which I must put you , and if you do not fail in that you will be leave in peace for evermore .
Here be the yarn which you wash .
Take them and weave them into a web that be as smooth a a king 's robe , and see that it be spin by the time that the sun set . '
` This be the easy thing I have be set to do , ' think the girl , who be a good spinner .
But when she begin she find that the skein tangle and break every moment .
` Oh , I can never do it ! '
she cry at last , and lean her head against the loom and wept ; but at that instant the door open , and there enter , one behind another , a procession of cat .
` What be the matter , fair maiden ? '
ask they .
And the girl answer : ` My mistress have give me this yarn to weave into a piece of cloth , which must be finish by sunset , and I have not even begin yet , for the yarn break whenever I touch it . '
` If that be all , dry your eye , ' say the cat ; ` we will manage it for you . '
And they jump on the loom , and weave so fast and so skilfully that in a very short time the cloth be ready and be as fine a any king ever wore .
The girl be so delighted at the sight of it that she give each cat a kiss on his forehead a they leave the room behind one the other a they have come .
` Who have teach you this wisdom ? '
ask the old woman , after she have pass her hand twice or thrice over the cloth and could find no roughness anywhere .
But the girl only smile and do not answer .
She have learn early the value of silence .
After a few week the old woman send for her maid and tell her that a her year of service be now up , she be free to return home , but that , for her part , the girl have serve her so well that she hop she might stay with her .
But at these word the maid shake her head , and answer gently : ' I have be happy here , Madam , and I thank you for your goodness to me ; but I have leave behind me a stepsister and a stepmother , and I be fain to be with them once more . '
The old woman look at her for a moment , and then she say : ` Well , that must be a you like ; but a you have work faithfully for me I will give you a reward .
Go now into the loft above the store house and there you will find many casket .
Choose the one which please you best , but be careful not to open it till you have set it in the place where you wish it to remain . '
The girl leave the room to go to the loft , and as soon a she get outside , she find all the cat wait for her .
Walking in procession , a be their custom , they follow her into the loft , which be fill with casket big and little , plain and splendid .
She lift up one and look at it , and then put it down to examine another yet more beautiful .
Which should she choose , the yellow or the blue , the red or the green , the gold or the silver ?
She hesitate long , and go first to one and then to another , when she hear the cat ' voice call : ` Take the black !
take the black ! '
The word make her look round -- she have see no black casket , but a the cat continue their cry she peer into several corner that have remain unnoticed , and at length discover a little black box , so small and so black , that it might easily have be pass over .
` This be the casket that please me best , mistress , ' say the girl , carry it into the house .
And the old woman smile and nod , and bid her go her way .
So the girl set forth , after bid farewell to the cow and the cat and the sparrow , who all weep a they say good-bye .
She walk on and on and on , till she reach the flowery meadow , and there , suddenly , something happen , she never know what , but she be sit on the wall of the well in her stepmother 's yard .
Then she get up and enter the house .
The woman and her daughter star a if they have be turn into stone ; but at length the stepmother gasp out : ` So you be alive after all !
Well , luck be ever against me !
And where have you be this year past ? '
Then the girl tell how she have take service in the under-world , and , beside her wage , have bring home with her a little casket , which she would like to set up in her room .
` Give me the money , and take the ugly little box off to the outhouse , ' cry the woman , beside herself with rage , and the girl , quite frighten at her violence , hasten away , with her precious box clasp to her bosom .
The outhouse be in a very dirty state , a no one have be near it since the girl have fall down the well ; but she scrub and sweep till everything be clean again , and then she place the little casket on a small shelf in the corner .
` Now I may open it , ' she say to herself ; and unlock it with the key which hang to it handle , she raise the lid , but start back a she do so , almost blind by the light that burst upon her .
No one would ever have guess that that little black box could have hold such a quantity of beautiful thing !
Rings , crown , girdle , necklace -- all make of wonderful stone ; and they shine with such brilliance that not only the stepmother and her daughter but all the people round come run to see if the house be on fire .
Of course the woman felt quite ill with greed and envy , and she would have certainly take all the jewel for herself have she not fear the wrath of the neighbour , who love her stepdaughter as much a they hat her .
But if she could not steal the casket and it content for herself , at least she could get another like it , and perhaps a still rich one .
So she bid her own daughter sit on the edge of the well , and throw her into the water , exactly a she have do to the other girl ; and , exactly a before , the flowery meadow lay at the bottom .
Every inch of the way she tread the path which her stepsister have tread , and saw the thing which she have see ; but there the likeness end .
When the fence pray her to do it no harm , she laugh rudely , and tear up some of the stake so that she might get over the more easily ; when the oven offer her bread , she scatter the loaf onto the ground and stamp on them ; and after she have milk the cow , and drink as much a she want , she throw the rest on the grass , and kick the pail to bit , and never hear them say , a they look after her : ` You shall not have do this to me for nothing ! '
Towards even she reach the spot where the old woman be lean against the gate-post , but she pass her by without a word .
` Have you no manner in your country ? '
ask the crone . '
I ca n't stop and talk ; I be in a hurry , ' answer the girl .
` It be get late , and I have to find a place . '
` Stop and comb my hair for a little , ' say the old woman , ` and I will help you to get a place . '
` Comb your hair , indeed !
I have something well to do than that ! '
And slam the gate in the crone 's face she go her way .
And she never hear the word that follow her : ` You shall not have do this to me for nothing ! '
By-and-by the girl arrive at the farm , and she be engage to look after the cow and sift the corn a her stepsister have be .
But it be only when someone be watch her that she do her work ; at other time the cow-house be dirty , and the cow ill-fed and beaten , so that they kick over the pail , and try to butt her ; and everyone say they have never see such thin cow or such poor milk .
As for the cat , she chase them away , and ill-treated them , so that they have not even the spirit to chase the rat and mouse , which nowadays ran about everywhere .
And when the sparrow come to beg for some corn , they fare no good than the cow and the cat , for the girl throw her shoe at them , till they fly in a fright to the wood , and take shelter amongst the tree .
Months pass in this manner , when , one day , the mistress call the girl to her .
` All that I have give you to do you have do ill , ' say she , ` yet will I give you another chance .
For though you can not tend cow , or divide the grain from the chaff , there may be other thing that you can do good .
Therefore take this sieve to the well , and fill it with water , and see that you bring it back without spill a drop . '
The girl take the sieve and carry it to the well a her sister have do ; but no little bird come to help her , and after dip it in the well two or three time she bring it back empty . '
I think as much , ' say the old woman angrily ; ` she that be useless in one thing be useless in another . '
Perhaps the mistress may have think that the girl have learn a lesson , but , if she do , she be quite mistaken , a the work be no good do than before .
By-and-by she send for her again , and give her maid the black and white yarn to wash in the river ; but there be no one to tell her the secret by which the black would turn white , and the white black ; so she bring them back a they be .
This time the old woman only look at her grimly but the girl be too well pleased with herself to care what anyone think about her .
After some week her third trial come , and the yarn be give her to spin , a it have be give to her stepsister before her .
But no procession of cat enter the room to weave a web of fine cloth , and at sunset she only bring back to her mistress an armful of dirty , tangle wool .
` There seem nothing in the world you can do , ' say the old woman , and leave her to herself .
Soon after this the year be up , and the girl go to her mistress to tell her that she wish to go home .
` Little desire have I to keep you , ' answer the old woman , ` for no one thing have you do a you ought .
Still , I will give you some payment , therefore go up into the loft , and choose for yourself one of the casket that lie there .
But see that you do not open it till you place it where you wish it to stay . '
This be what the girl have be hop for , and so rejoice be she , that , without even stop to thank the old woman , she run as fast a she could to the loft .
There be the casket , blue and red , green and yellow , silver and gold ; and there in the corner stand a little black casket just like the one her stepsister have bring home .
` If there be so many jewel in that little black thing , this big red one will hold twice the number , ' she say to herself ; and snatch it up she set off on her road home without even go to bid farewell to her mistress .
` See , mother , see what I have bring ! '
cry she , a she enter the cottage hold the casket in both hand .
` Ah !
you have get something very different from that little black box , ' answer the old woman with delight .
But the girl be so busy find a place for it to stand that she take little notice of her mother .
` It will look best here -- no , here , ' she say , set it first on one piece of furniture and then on another .
` No , after all it be to fine to live in a kitchen , let u place it in the guest chamber . '
So mother and daughter carry it proudly upstairs and put it on a shelf over the fireplace ; then , untie the key from the handle , they open the box .
As before , a bright light leapt out directly the lid be raise , but it do not spring from the lustre of jewel , but from hot flame , which dart along the wall and burn up the cottage and all that be in it and the mother and daughter as well .
As they have do when the stepdaughter come home , the neighbour all hurry to see what be the matter ; but they be too late .
Only the hen-house be leave standing ; and , in spite of her rich , there the stepdaughter live happily to the end of her day .
The Goldsmith 's Fortune -LSB- From Thorpe 's Yule-Tide Stories . -RSB-
Once upon a time there be a goldsmith who live in a certain village where the people be a bad and greedy , and covetous , a they could possibly be ; however , in spite of his surroundings , he be fat and prosperous .
He have only one friend whom he like , and that be a cowherd , who look after cattle for one of the farmer in the village .
Every even the goldsmith would walk across to the cowherd 's house and say : ` Come , let 's go out for a walk ! '
Now the cowherd do n't like walk in the evening , because , he say , he have be out graze the cattle all day , and be glad to sit down when night come ; but the goldsmith always worry him so that the poor man have to go against his will .
This at last so annoy him that he try to think how he could pick a quarrel with the goldsmith , so that he should not beg him to walk with him any more .
He ask another cowherd for advice , and he say the best thing he could do be to go across and kill the goldsmith 's wife , for then the goldsmith would be sure to regard him a an enemy ; so , be a foolish person , and there be no law in that country by which a man would be certainly punish for such a crime , the cowherd one evening take a big stick and go across to the goldsmith 's house when only Mrs. Goldsmith be at home , and bang her on the head so hard that she die then and there .
When the goldsmith come back and find his wife dead he say nothing , but just take her outside into the dark lane and prop her up against the wall of his house , and then go into the courtyard and wait .
Presently a rich stranger come along the lane , and see someone there , a he suppose , he say : ` Good-evening , friend !
a fine night to-night ! '
But the goldsmith 's wife say nothing .
The man then repeat his word louder ; but still there be no reply .
A third time he shout : ` Good-evening , friend !
be you deaf ? '
but the figure never reply .
Then the stranger , be angry at what he think very rude behaviour , pick up a big stone and throw it at Mrs. Goldsmith , cry : ` Let that teach you manner ! '
Instantly poor Mrs. Goldsmith tumble over ; and the stranger , horrify at see what he have do , be immediately seize by the goldsmith , who run out screaming : ` Wretch !
you have kill my wife !
Oh , miserable one ; we will have justice do to thee ! '
With many protestation and reproach they wrangle together , the stranger entreat the goldsmith to say nothing and he would pay him handsomely to atone for the sad accident .
At last the goldsmith quiet down , and agree to accept one thousand gold piece from the stranger , who immediately help him to bury his poor wife , and then rush off to the guest house , pack up his thing and be off by daylight , lest the goldsmith should repent and accuse him a the murderer of his wife .
Now it very soon appear that the goldsmith have a lot of extra money , so that people begin to ask question , and finally demand of him the reason for his sudden wealth .
` Oh , ' say he , ` my wife die , and I sell her . '
` You sell your dead wife ? '
cry the people .
` Yes , ' say the goldsmith .
` For how much ? ' '
A thousand gold piece , ' reply the goldsmith .
Instantly the villager go away and each caught hold of his own wife and throttle her , and the next day they all go off to sell their dead wife .
Many a weary mile do they tramp , but get nothing but hard word or laughter , or direction to the near cemetery , from people to whom they offer dead wife for sale .
At last they perceive that they have be cheat somehow by that goldsmith .
So off they rush home , seize the unhappy man , and , without listen to his cry and entreaty , hurry him down to the river bank and flung him -- plop !
-- into the deep , weedy , and nasty place they could find .
` That will teach him to play trick on u , ' say they .
` For a he ca n't swim he 'll drown , and we sha 'n ' t have any more trouble with him ! '
Now the goldsmith really could not swim , and as soon a he be throw into the deep river he sink below the surface ; so his enemy go away believe that they have see the last of him .
But , in reality , he be carry down , half drown , below the next bend in the river , where he fortunately come across a ` snag ' float in the water -LRB- a snag be , you know , a part of a tree or bush which float very nearly under the surface of the water -RRB- ; and he hold on to this snag , and by great good luck eventually come ashore some two or three mile down the river .
At the place where he land he come across a fine fat cow buffalo , and immediately he jump on her back and ride home .
When the village people saw him , they run out in surprise , and say : ` Where on earth do you come from , and where do you get that buffalo ? '
` Ah ! '
say the goldsmith , ` you little know what delightful adventure I have have !
Why , down in that place in the river where you throw me in I find meadow , and tree , and fine pasture , and buffalo , and all kind of cattle .
In fact , I could hardly tear myself away ; but I think that I must really let you all know about it . '
` Oh , oh ! '
think the greedy village people ; ` if there be buffalo to be have for the taking we 'll go after some too . '
Encouraged by the goldsmith they nearly all run off the very next morning to the river ; and , in order that they might get down quickly to the beautiful place the goldsmith tell them of , they tie great stone on to their foot and their neck , and one after another they jump into the water as fast a the could , and be drown .
And whenever any one of them wave his hand about and struggle the goldsmith would cry out : ` Look !
he 's beckon the rest of you to come ; he 's get a fine buffalo ! '
And others who be doubtful would jump in , until not one be leave .
Then the cunning goldsmith go back and take all the village for himself , and become very rich indeed .
But do you think he be happy ?
Not a bit .
Lies never make a man happy yet .
Truly , he get the good of a set of wicked and greedy people , but only by be wicked and greedy himself ; and , a it turn out , when he get so rich he get very fat ; and at last be so fat that he could n't move , and one day he get the apoplexy and die , and no one in the world care the least bit .
The Enchanted Wreath -LSB- Told by a Pathan to Major Campbell . -RSB-
Once upon a time there live near a forest a man and his wife and two girl ; one girl be the daughter of the man , and the other the daughter of his wife ; and the man 's daughter be good and beautiful , but the woman 's daughter be cross and ugly .
However , her mother do not know that , but think her the most bewitching maiden that ever be see .
One day the man call to his daughter and bid her come with him into the forest to cut wood .
They work hard all day , but in spite of the chop they be very cold , for it rain heavily , and when they return home , they be wet through .
Then , to his vexation , the man find that he have leave his axe behind him , and he know that if it lay all night in the mud it would become rusty and useless .
So he say to his wife : ' I have drop my axe in the forest , bid your daughter go and fetch it , for mine have work hard all day and be both wet and weary . '
But the wife answer : ` If your daughter be wet already , it be all the more reason that she should go and get the axe .
Besides , she be a great strong girl , and a little rain will not hurt her , while my daughter would be sure to catch a bad cold . '
By long experience the man know there be no good say any more , and with a sigh he tell the poor girl she must return to the forest for the axe .
The walk take some time , for it be very dark , and her shoe often stick in the mud , but she be brave as well a beautiful and never think of turn back merely because the path be both difficult and unpleasant .
At last , with her dress tear by bramble that she could not see , and her fact scratch by the twig on the tree , she reach the spot where she and her father have be cut in the morning , and find the axe in the place he have leave it .
To her surprise , three little dove be sit on the handle , all of them look very sad .
` You poor little thing , ' say the girl , stroke them .
` Why do you sit there and get wet ?
Go and fly home to your nest , it will be much warm than this ; but first eat this bread , which I save from my dinner , and perhaps you will feel happier .
It be my father 's axe you be sit on , and I must take it back as fast a I can , or I shall get a terrible scolding from my stepmother . '
She then crumble the bread on the ground , and be pleased to see the dove flutter quite cheerfully towards it .
` Good-bye , ' she say , pick up the axe , and go her way homewards .
By the time they have finish all the crumb the dove felt must better , and be able to fly back to their nest in the top of a tree .
` That be a good girl , ' say one ; ' I really be too weak to stretch out a wing before she come .
I should like to do something to show how grateful I be . '
` Well , let u give her a wreath of flower that will never fade as long a she wear it , ' cry another .
` And let the tiny singing bird in the world sit amongst the flower , ' rejoin the third .
` Yes , that will do beautifully , ' say the first .
And when the girl step into her cottage a wreath of rosebud be on her head , and a crowd of little bird be sing unseen .
The father , who be sit by the fire , think that , in spite of her muddy clothes , he have never see his daughter look so lovely ; but the stepmother and the other girl grow wild with envy .
` How absurd to walk about on such a pouring night , dress up like that , ' she remark crossly , and roughly pull off the wreath a she speak , to place it on her own daughter .
As she do so the rose become withered and brown , and the bird fly out of the window .
` See what a trumpery thing it be ! '
cry the stepmother ; ` and now take your supper and go to bed , for it be near upon midnight . '
But though she pretend to despise the wreath , she long none the less for her daughter to have one like it .
Now it happen that the next evening the father , who have be alone in the forest , come back a second time without his axe .
The stepmother 's heart be glad when she saw this , and she say quite mildly : ` Why , you have forget your axe again , you careless man !
But now your daughter shall stay at home , and mine shall go and bring it back ' ; and throw a cloak over the girl 's shoulder , she bid her hasten to the forest .
With a very ill grace the damsel set forth , grumble to herself a she go ; for though she wish for the wreath , she do not at all want the trouble of get it .
By the time she reach the spot where her stepfather have be cut the wood the girl be in a very bad temper indeed , and when she catch sight of the axe , there be the three little dove , with droop head and soil , bedraggle feather , sit on the handle .
` You dirty creature , ' cry she , ` get away at once , or I will throw stone at you !
And the dove spread their wing in a fright and fly up to the very top of a tree , their body shake with anger .
` What shall we do to revenge ourselves on her ? '
ask the small of the dove , ` we be never treat like that before . '
` Never , ' say the big dove .
` We must find some way of pay her back in her own coin ! ' '
I know , ' answer the middle dove ; ` she shall never be able to say anything but `` dirty creature '' to the end of her life . '
` Oh , how clever of you !
That will do beautifully , ' exclaim the other two .
And they flap their wing and cluck so loud with delight , and make such a noise , that they wake up all the bird in the tree close by .
` What in the world be the matter ? '
ask the bird sleepily .
` That be our secret , ' say the dove .
Meanwhile the girl have reach home crosser than ever ; but as soon a her mother hear her lift the latch of the door she run out to hear her adventure .
` Well , do you get the wreath ? '
cry she .
` Dirty creature ! '
answer her daughter .
` Do n't speak to me like that !
What do you mean ? '
ask the mother again .
` Dirty creature ! '
repeat the daughter , and nothing else could she say .
Then the woman saw that something evil have befall her , and turn in her rage to her stepdaughter .
` You be at the bottom of this , I know , ' she cry ; and a the father be out of the way she take a stick and beat the girl till she scream with pain and go to bed sobbing .
If the poor girl 's life have be miserable before , it be ten time worse now , for the moment her father 's back be turn the others tease and torment her from morning till night ; and their fury be increase by the sight of her wreath , which the dove have place again on her head .
Things go on like this for some week , when , one day , a the king 's son be rid through the forest , he hear some strange bird sing more sweetly than bird have ever sing before .
He tie his horse to a tree , and follow where the sound lead him , and , to his surprise , he saw before him a beautiful girl chop wood , with a wreath of pink rose-buds , out of which the singing come .
Standing in the shelter of a tree , he watch her a long while , and then , hat in hand , he go up and speak to her .
` Fair maiden , who be you , and who give you that wreath of sing rose ? '
ask he , for the bird be so tiny that till you look closely you never saw them . '
I live in a hut on the edge of the forest , ' she answer , blushing , for she have never speak to a prince before .
` As to the wreath , I know not how it come there , unless it may be the gift of some dove whom I feed when they be starve !
The prince be delight with this answer , which show the goodness of the girl 's heart , and besides he have fall in love with her beauty , and would not be content till she promise to return with him to the palace , and become his bride .
The old king be naturally disappoint at his son 's choice of a wife , a he wish him to marry a neighbouring princess ; but a from his birth the prince have always do exactly a he like , nothing be say and a splendid wedding feast be get ready .
The day after her marriage the bride send a messenger , bear handsome present to her father , and tell him of the good fortune which have befall her .
As may be imagine , the stepmother and her daughter be so fill with envy that they grow quite ill , and have to take to their bed , and nobody would have be sorry it they have never get up again ; but that do not happen .
At length , however , they begin to feel well , for the mother invent a plan by which she could be revenge on the girl who have never do her any harm .
Her plan be this .
In the town where she have live before she be marry there be an old witch , who have more skill in magic that any other witch she know .
To this witch she would go and beg her to make her a mask with the face of her stepdaughter , and when she have the mask the rest would be easy .
She tell her daughter what she mean to do , and although the daughter could only say ` dirty creature , ' in answer , she nod and smile and look well pleased .
Everything fell out exactly a the woman have hop .
By the aid of her magic mirror the witch behold the new princess walking in her garden in a dress of green silk , and in a few minute have produce a mask so like her , that very few people could have tell the difference .
However , she counsel the woman that when her daughter first wear it -- for that , of course , be what she intend her to do -- she have well pretend that she have a toothache , and cover her head with a lace veil .
The woman thank her and pay her well , and return to her hut , carry the mask under her cloak .
In a few day she hear that a great hunt be plan , and the prince would leave the palace very early in the morning , so that his wife would be alone all day .
This be a chance not to be miss , and take her daughter with her she go up to the palace , where she have never be before .
The princess be too happy in her new home to remember all that she have suffer in the old one , and she welcome them both gladly , and give them quantity of beautiful thing to take back with them .
At last she take them down to the shore to see a pleasure boat which her husband have have make for her ; and here , the woman seize her opportunity , stole softly behind the girl and push her off the rock on which she be stand , into the deep water , where she instantly sink to the bottom .
Then she fasten the mask on her daughter , flung over her shoulder a velvet cloak , which the princess have let fall , and finally arrange a lace veil over her head .
` Rest your cheek on your hand , a if you be in pain , when the prince return , ' say the mother ; ` and be careful not to speak , whatever you do .
I will go back to the witch and see if she can not take off the spell lay on you by those horrible bird .
Ah !
why do I not think of it before ! '
No sooner have the prince enter the palace than he hasten to the princess 's apartment , where he find her lie on the sofa apparently in great pain .
` My dear wife , what be the matter with you ? '
he cry , kneel down beside her , and try to take her hand ; but she snatch it away , and point to her cheek murmur something he could not catch .
` What be it ?
tell me !
Is the pain bad ?
When do it begin ?
Shall I send for your lady to bath the place ? '
ask the prince , pour out these and a dozen other question , to which the girl only shake her head .
` But I ca n't leave you like this , ' he continue , start up , ' I must summon all the court physicians to apply soothe balsam to the sore place !
And a he speak he spring to his foot to go in search of them once come near her the trick would at once be discover , that she forget her mother 's counsel not to speak , and forget even the spell that have be lay upon her , and catch hold of the prince 's tunic , she cry in tone of entreaty : ` Dirty creature ! '
The young man stop , not able to believe his ear , but suppose that pain have make the princess cross , a it sometimes do .
However , he guess somehow that she wised to be leave alone , so he only say : ` Well , I dare say a little sleep will do you good , if you can manage to get it , and that you will wake up good to-morrow . '
Now , that night happen to be very hot and airless , and the prince , after vainly try to rest , at length get up and go to the window .
Suddenly he behold in the moonlight a form with a wreath of rose on her head rise out of the sea below him and step on to the sand , hold out her arm a she do so towards the palace .
` That maiden be strangely like my wife , ' think he ; ' I must see her closer !
And he hasten down to the water .
But when he get there , the princess , for she indeed it be , have disappear completely , and he begin to wonder if his eye have deceive him .
The next morning he go to the false bride 's room , but her lady tell him she would neither speak nor get up , though she eat everything they set before her .
The prince be sorely perplexed a to what could be the matter with her , for naturally he could not guess that she be expect her mother to return every moment , and to remove the spell the dove have lay upon her , and meanwhile be afraid to speak l she should betray herself .
At length he make up his mind to summon all the court physicians ; he do not tell her what he be go to do , lest it should make her worse , but he go himself and beg the four learn leech attach to the king 's person to follow him to the princess 's apartment .
Unfortunately , a they enter , the princess be so enrage at the sight of them that she forget all about the dove , and shriek out : ` Dirty creature !
dirty creature ! '
which so offend the physician that they leave the room at once , and nothing that the prince could say would prevail on them to remain .
He then try to persuade his wife to send them a message that she be sorry for her rudeness , but not a word would she say .
Late that even , when he have perform all the tiresome duty which fall to the lot of every prince , the young man be lean out of his window , refresh himself with the cool breeze that blow off the sea .
His thought go back to the scene of the morning , and he wonder if , after all , he have not make a great mistake in marry a low-born wife , however beautiful she might be .
How could he have imagine that the quiet , gentle girl who have be so charm a companion to him during the first day of their marriage , could have become in a day the rude , sulky woman , who could not control her temper even to benefit herself .
One thing be clear , if she do not change her conduct very shortly he would have to send her away from court .
He be think these thought , when his eye fell on the sea beneath him , and there , a before , be the figure that so closely resemble his wife , stand with her foot in the water , hold out her arm to him .
` Wait for me !
Wait for me !
Wait for me ! '
he cry ; not even know he be speak .
But when he reach the shore there be nothing to be see but the shadow cast by the moonlight .
A state ceremonial in a city some distance off cause the prince to ride away at daybreak , and he leave without see his wife again .
` Perhaps she may have come to her sens by to-morrow , ' say he to himself ; ` and , anyhow , if I be go to send her back to her father , it might be good if we do not meet in the meantime !
Then he put the matter from his mind , and keep his thought on the duty that lay before him .
It be nearly midnight before he return to the palace , but , instead of enter , he go down to the shore and hid behind a rock .
He have scarcely do so when the girl come out of the sea , and stretch out her arm towards his window .
In an instant the prince have seize her hand , and though she make a frightened struggle to reach the water -- for she in her turn have have a spell laid upon her -- he hold her fast .
` You be my own wife , and I shall never let you go , ' he say .
But the word be hardly out of his mouth when he find that it be a hare that he be hold by the paw .
Then the hare change into a fish , and the fish into a bird , and the bird into a slimy wriggle snake .
This time the prince 's hand nearly open of itself , but with a strong effort he keep his finger shut , and draw his sword cut off it head , when the spell be break , and the girl stand before him a he have see her first , the wreath upon her head and the bird sing for joy .
The very next morning the stepmother arrive at the palace with an ointment that the old witch have give her to place upon her daughter 's tongue , which would break the dove 's spell , if the rightful bride have really be drown in the sea ; if not , then it would be useless .
The mother assure her that she have see her stepdaughter sink , and that there be no fear that she would ever come up again ; but , to make all quite safe , the old woman might bewitch the girl ; and so she do .
After that the wicked stepmother travel all through the night to get to the palace as soon a possible , and make her way straight into her daughter 's room . '
I have get it !
I have get it ! '
she cry triumphantly , and lay the ointment on her daughter 's tongue .
` Now what do you say ? '
she ask proudly .
` Dirty creature !
dirty creature ! '
answer the daughter ; and the mother wring her hand and wept , a she know that all her plan have fail .
At this moment the prince enter with his real wife .
` You both deserve death , ' he say , ` and if it be leave to me , you should have it .
But the princess have beg me to spare your life , so you will be put into a ship and carry off to a desert island , where you will stay till you die . '
Then the ship be make ready and the wicked woman and her daughter be place in it , and it sail away , and no more be hear of them .
But the prince and his wife live together long and happily , and rule their people well .
The Foolish Weaver -LSB- Adapted from Thorpe 's Yule-Tide Stories . -RSB-
Once a weaver , who be in want of work , take service with a certain farmer a a shepherd .
The farmer , know that the man be very slow-witted , give him most careful instruction a to everything that he be to do .
Finally he say : ` If a wolf or any wild animal attempt to hurt the flock you should pick up a big stone like this ' -LRB- suit the action to the word -RRB- ` and throw a few such at him , and he will be afraid and go away . '
The weaver say that he understand , and start with the flock to the hillside where they graze all day .
By chance in the afternoon a leopard appear , and the weaver instantly run home as fast a he could to get the stone which the farmer have show him , to throw at the creature .
When he come back all the flock be scatter or kill , and when the farmer hear the tale he beat him soundly .
` Were there no stone on the hillside that you should run back to get them , you senseless one ? '
he cry ; ` you be not fit to herd sheep .
To-day you shall stay at home and mind my old mother who be sick , perhaps you will be able to drive fly off her face , if you ca n't drive beast away from sheep ! '
So , the next day , the weaver be leave at home to take care of the farmer 's old sick mother .
Now a she lay outside on a bed , it turn out that the fly become very troublesome , and the weaver look round for something to drive them away with ; and a he have be tell to pick up the near stone to drive the beast away from the flock , he think he would this time show how cleverly he could obey order .
Accordingly he seize the near stone , which be a big , heavy one , and dash it at the fly ; but , unhappily , he slew the poor old woman also ; and then , be afraid of the wrath of the farmer , he flee and be not see again in that neighbourhood .
All that day and all the next night he walk , and at length he come to a village where a great many weaver live together .
` You be welcome , ' say they .
` Eat and sleep , for to-morrow six of u start in search of fresh wool to weave , and we pray you to give u your company . '
` Willingly , ' answer the weaver .
So the next morning the seven weaver set out to go to the village where they could buy what they want .
On the way they have to cross a ravine which lately have be full of water , but now be quite dry .
The weaver , however , be accustom to swim over this ravine ; therefore , regardless of the fact that this time it be dry , they strip , and , tie their clothes on their head , they proceed to swim across the dry sand and rock that form the bed of the ravine .
Thus they get to the other side without further damage than bruise knee and elbow , and as soon a they be over , one of them begin to count the party to make sure that all be safe there .
He count all except himself , and then cry out that somebody be miss !
This set each of them count ; but each make the same mistake of count all except himself , so that they become certain that one of their party be miss !
They run up and down the bank of the ravine wring their hand in great distress and look for sign of their lose comrade .
There a farmer find them and ask what be the matter .
` Alas ! '
say one , ` seven of u start from the other bank and one must have be drown on the crossing , a we can only find six remain ! '
The farmer eye them a minute , and then , pick up his stick , he deal each a sounding blow , counting , a he do so , ` One !
two !
three ! '
and so on up to the seven .
When the weaver find that there be seven of them they be overcome with gratitude to one whom they take for a magician a he could thus make seven out of an obvious six .
The Clever Cat -LSB- From the Pushto . -RSB-
Once upon a time there live an old man who dwell with his son in a small hut on the edge of the plain .
He be very old , and have work very hard , and when at last he be strike down by illness he felt that he should never rise from his bed again .
So , one day , he bid his wife summon their son , when he come back from his journey to the near town , where he have be to buy bread .
` Come hither , my son , ' say he ; ' I know myself well to be die , and I have nothing to leave you but my falcon , my cat and my greyhound ; but if you make good use of them you will never lack food .
Be good to your mother , a you have be to me .
And now farewell ! '
Then he turn his face to the wall and die .
There be great mourning in the hut for many day , but at length the son rise up , and call to his greyhound , his cat and his falcon , he leave the house say that he would bring back something for dinner .
Wandering over the plain , he notice a troop of gazelle , and point to his greyhound to give chase .
The dog soon bring down a fine fat beast , and sling it over his shoulder , the young man turn homewards .
On the way , however , he pass a pond , and a he approach a cloud of bird fly into the air .
Shaking his wrist , the falcon seat on it dart into the air , and swoop down upon the quarry he have mark , which fell dead to the ground .
The young man pick it up , and put it in his pouch and then go towards home again .
Near the hut be a small barn in which he keep the produce of the little patch of corn , which grow close to the garden .
Here a rat run out almost under his foot , follow by another and another ; but quick a thought the cat be upon them and not one escape her .
When all the rat be kill , the young man leave the barn .
He take the path lead to the door of the hut , but stop on feel a hand lay on his shoulder .
` Young man , ' say the ogre -LRB- for such be the stranger -RRB- , ` you have be a good son , and you deserve the piece of luck which have befall you this day .
Come with me to that shin lake yonder , and fear nothing . '
Wondering a little at what might be go to happen to him , the youth do a the ogre bid him , and when they reach the shore of the lake , the ogre turn and say to him : ` Step into the water and shut your eye !
You will find yourself sink slowly to the bottom ; but take courage , all will go well .
Only bring up as much silver a you can carry , and we will divide it between u . '
So the young man step bravely into the lake , and felt himself sinking , sinking , till he reach firm ground at last .
In front of him lay four heap of silver , and in the midst of them a curious white shin stone , mark over with strange character , such a he have never see before .
He pick it up in order to examine it more closely , and a he hold it the stone speak .
` As long a you hold me , all your wish will come true , ' it say .
` But hide me in your turban , and then call to the ogre that you be ready to come up . '
In a few minute the young man stand again by the shore of the lake .
` Well , where be the silver ? '
ask the ogre , who be await him .
` Ah , my father , how can I tell you !
So bewilder be I , and so dazzled with the splendour of everything I saw , that I stand like a statue , unable to move .
Then hear step approach I get frighten , and call to you , a you know . '
` You be no good than the rest , ' cry the ogre , and turn away in a rage .
When he be out of sight the young man take the stone from his turban and look at it . '
I want the fine camel that can be find , and the most splendid garment , ' say he .
` Shut your eye then , ' reply the stone .
And he shut them ; and when he open them again the camel that he have wish for be stand before him , while the festal robe of a desert prince hung from his shoulder .
Mounting the camel , he whistle the falcon to his wrist , and , follow by his greyhound and his cat , he start homewards .
His mother be sew at her door when this magnificent stranger ride up , and , fill with surprise , she bow low before him .
` Do n't you know me , mother ? '
he say with a laugh .
And on hear his voice the good woman nearly fell to the ground with astonishment .
` How have you get that camel and those clothes ? '
ask she .
` Can a son of mine have commit murder in order to possess them ? '
` Do not be afraid ; they be quite honestly come by , ' answer the youth . '
I will explain all by-and-by ; but now you must go to the palace and tell the king I wish to marry his daughter . '
At these word the mother think her son have certainly go mad , and star blankly at him .
The young man guess what be in her heart , and reply with a smile : ` Fear nothing .
Promise all that he ask ; it will be fulfil somehow . '
So she go to the palace , where she find the king sit in the Hall of Justice listen to the petition of his people .
The woman wait until all have be hear and the hall be empty , and then go up and kneel before the throne .
` My son have send me to ask for the hand of the princess , ' say she .
The king look at her and think that she be mad ; but , instead of order his guard to turn her out , he answer gravely : ` Before he can marry the princess he must build me a palace of ice , which can be warm with fire , and wherein the rare singing-birds can live ! '
` It shall be do , your Majesty , ' say she , and get up and leave the hall .
Her son be anxiously await her outside the palace gate , dress in the clothes that he wear every day .
` Well , what have I get to do ? '
he ask impatiently , draw his mother aside so that no one could overhear them .
` Oh , something quite impossible ; and I hope you will put the princess out of your head , ' she reply .
` Well , but what be it ? '
persist he .
` Nothing but to build a palace of ice wherein fire can burn that shall keep it so warm that the most delicate singing-birds can live in it ! ' '
I think it would be something much hard than that , ' exclaim the young man . '
I will see about it at once . '
And leave his mother , he go into the country and take the stone from his turban . '
I want a palace of ice that can be warm with fire and fill with the rare singing-birds ! '
` Shut your eye , then , ' say the stone ; and he shut them , and when he open them again there be the palace , more beautiful than anything he could have imagine , the fire throw a soft pink glow over the ice .
` It be fit even for the princess , ' think he to himself .
As soon a the king awoke next morning he run to the window , and there across the plain he behold the palace .
` That young man must be a great wizard ; he may be useful to me . '
And when the mother come again to tell him that his order have be fulfil he receive her with great honour , and bid her tell her son that the wedding be fix for the following day .
The princess be delighted with her new home , and with her husband also ; and several day slip happily by , spend in turn over all the beautiful thing that the palace contain .
But at length the young man grow tire of always stay inside wall , and he tell his wife that the next day he must leave her for a few hour , and go out hunting .
` You will not mind ? '
he ask .
And she answer a become a good wife : ` Yes , of course I shall mind ; but I will spend the day in plan out some new dress ; and then it will be so delightful when you come back , you know ! '
So the husband go off to hunt , with the falcon on his wrist , and the greyhound and the cat behind him -- for the palace be so warm that even the cat do not mind living in it .
No sooner have he go , than the ogre who have be watch his chance for many day , knock at the door of the palace . '
I have just return from a far country , ' he say , ` and I have some of the large and most brilliant stone in the world with me .
The princess be know to love beautiful thing , perhaps she might like to buy some ? '
Now the princess have be wonder for many day what trim she should put on her dress , so that they should outshine the dress of the other lady at the court ball .
Nothing that she think of seemed good enough , so , when the message be bring that the ogre and his ware be below , she at once order that he should be bring to her chamber .
Oh !
what beautiful stone he lay before her ; what lovely ruby , and what rare pearl !
No other lady would have jewel like those -- of that the princess be quite sure ; but she cast down her eye so that the ogre might not see how much she long for them . '
I fear they be too costly for me , ' she say carelessly ; ` and besides , I have hardly need of any more jewel just now . ' '
I have no particular wish to sell them myself , ' answer the ogre , with equal indifference .
` But I have a necklace of shin stone which be leave me by father , and one , the large engraven with weird character , be miss .
I have hear that it be in your husband 's possession , and if you can get me that stone you shall have any of these jewel that you choose .
But you will have to pretend that you want it for yourself ; and , above all , do not mention me , for he set great store by it , and would never part with it to a stranger !
To-morrow I will return with some jewel yet fine than those I have with me to-day .
So , madam , farewell ! '
Left alone , the princess begin to think of many thing , but chiefly a to whether she would persuade her husband to give her the stone or not .
At one moment she felt he have already bestow so much upon her that it be a shame to ask for the only object he have keep back .
No , it would be mean ; she could not do it !
But then , those diamond , and those string of pearl !
After all , they have only be marry a week , and the pleasure of give it to her ought to be far great than the pleasure of keep it for himself .
And she be sure it would be !
Well , that evening , when the young man have sup off his favourite dish which the princess take care to have specially prepare for him , she sit down close beside him , and begin stroke his head .
For some time she do not speak , but listen attentively to all the adventure that have befall him that day .
` But I be think of you all the time , ' say he at the end , ` and wish that I could bring you back something you would like .
But , ala !
what be there that you do not possess already ? '
` How good of you not to forget me when you be in the midst of such danger and hardship , ' answer she .
` Yes , it be true I have many beautiful thing ; but if you want to give me a present -- and to-morrow be my birthday -- there IS one thing that I wish for very much . '
` And what be that ?
Of course you shall have it directly ! '
he ask eagerly .
` It be that bright stone which fell out of the fold of your turban a few day ago , ' she answer , play with his finger ; ` the little stone with all those funny mark upon it .
I never saw any stone like it before . '
The young man do not answer at first ; then he say , slowly : ' I have promise , and therefore I must perform .
But will you swear never to part from it , and to keep it safely about you always ?
More I can not tell you , but I beg you earnestly to take heed to this . '
The princess be a little startle by his manner , and begin to be sorry that she have every listen to the ogre .
But she do not like to draw back , and pretend to be immensely delighted at her new toy , and kiss and thank her husband for it .
` After all I need n't give it to the ogre , ' think she a she drop off to sleep .
Unluckily the next morning the young man go hunt again , and the ogre , who be watch , know this , and do not come till much later than before .
At the moment that he knock at the door of the palace the princess have tire of all her employment , and her attendant be at their wit ' end how to amuse her , when a tall negro dress in scarlet come to announce that the ogre be below , and desire to know if the princess would speak to him .
` Bring him hither at once ! '
cry she , spring up from her cushion , and forget all her resolve of the previous night .
In another moment she be bend with rapture over the glittering gem .
` Have you get it ? '
ask the ogre in a whisper , for the princess 's lady be stand as near a they dare to catch a glimpse of the beautiful jewel .
` Yes , here , ' she answer , slip the stone from her sash and place it among the rest .
Then she raise her voice , and begin to talk quickly of the price of the chain and necklace , and after some bargaining , to deceive the attendant , she declare that she like one string of pearl good than all the rest , and that the ogre might take away the other thing , which be not half as valuable a he suppose .
` As you please , madam , ' say he , bow himself out of the palace .
Soon after he have go a curious thing happen .
The princess carelessly touch the wall of her room , which be wont to reflect the warm red light of the fire on the hearth , and find her hand quite wet .
She turn round , and -- be it her fancy ?
or do the fire burn more dimly than before ?
Hurriedly she pass into the picture gallery , where pool of water show here and there on the floor , and a cold chill run through her whole body .
At that instant her frightened lady come run down the stair , cry : ` Madam !
madam !
what have happen ?
The palace be disappear under our eye ! '
` My husband will be home very soon , ' answer the princess -- who , though nearly as much frighten a her lady , felt that she must set them a good example .
` Wait till then , and he will tell u what to do . '
So they wait , seat on the high chair they could find , wrap in their warm garment , and with pile of cushion under their foot , while the poor bird fly with numbed wing hither and thither , till they be so lucky a to discover an open window in some forgotten corner .
Through this they vanish , and be see no more .
At last , when the princess and her lady have be force to leave the upper room , where the wall and floor have melt away , and to take refuge in the hall , the young man come home .
He have ride back along a wind road from which he do not see the palace till he be close upon it , and stand horrify at the spectacle before him .
He know in an instant that his wife must have betray his trust , but he would not reproach her , a she must be suffer enough already .
Hurrying on he spring over all that be leave of the palace wall , and the princess give a cry of relief at the sight of him .
` Come quickly , ' he say , ` or you will be frozen to death ! '
And a dreary little procession set out for the king 's palace , the greyhound and the cat bring up the rear .
At the gate he leave them , though his wife beseech him to allow her to enter .
` You have betray me and ruin me , ' he say sternly ; ' I go to seek my fortune alone . '
And without another word he turn and leave her .
With his falcon on his wrist , and his greyhound and cat behind him , the young man walk a long way , inquire of everyone he meet whether they have see his enemy the ogre .
But nobody have .
Then he bid his falcon fly up into the sky -- up , up , and up -- and try if his sharp eye could discover the old thief .
The bird have to go so high that he do not return for some hour ; but he tell his master that the ogre be lie asleep in a splendid palace in a far country on the shore of the sea .
This be delightful news to the young man , who instantly buy some meat for the falcon , bid him make a good meal .
` To-morrow , ' say he , ` you will fly to the palace where the ogre lie , and while he be asleep you will search all about him for a stone on which be engrave strange sign ; this you will bring to me .
In three day I shall expect you back here . '
` Well , I must take the cat with me , ' answer the bird .
The sun have not yet rise before the falcon soar high into the air , the cat seat on his back , with his paw tightly clasp the bird 's neck .
` You have good shut your eye or you may get giddy , ' say the bird ; and the cat , you have never before be off the ground except to climb a tree , do a she be bid .
All that day and all that night they fly , and in the morning they saw the ogre 's palace lie beneath them .
` Dear me , ' say the cat , open her eye for the first time , ` that look to me very like a rat city down there , let u go down to it ; they may be able to help u . '
So they alight in some bush in the heart of the rat city .
The falcon remain where he be , but the cat lay down outside the principal gate , cause terrible excitement among the rat .
At length , see she do not move , one bolder than the rest put it head out of an upper window of the castle , and say , in a trembling voice : ` Why have you come here ?
What do you want ?
If it be anything in our power , tell u , and we will do it . '
` If you would have let me speak to you before , I would have tell you that I come a a friend , ' reply the cat ; ` and I shall be greatly oblige if you would send four of the strong and cunningest among you , to do me a service . '
` Oh , we shall be delight , ' answer the rat , much relieve .
` But if you will inform me what it be you wish them to do I shall be well able to judge who be most fitted for the post . ' '
I thank you , ' say the cat .
` Well , what they have to do be this : To-night they must burrow under the wall of the castle and go up to the room be an ogre lie asleep .
Somewhere about him he have hide a stone , on which be engrave strange sign .
When they have find it they must take it from him without his waking , and bring it to me . '
` Your order shall be obey , ' reply the rat .
And he go out to give his instruction .
About midnight the cat , who be still sleep before the gate , be awaken by some water flung at her by the head rat , who could not make up his mind to open the door .
` Here be the stone you want , ' say he , when the cat start up with a loud mew ; ` if you will hold up your paw I will drop it down . '
And so he do .
` And now farewell , ' continue the rat ; ` you have a long way to go , and will do well to start before daybreak . '
` Your counsel be good , ' reply the cat , smile to itself ; and put the stone in her mouth she go off to seek the falcon .
Now all this time neither the cat nor the falcon have have any food , and the falcon soon get tired carrying such a heavy burden .
When night arrive he declare he could go no far , but would spend it on the bank of a river .
` And it be my turn to take care of the stone , ' say he , ` or it will seem a if you have do everything and I nothing . '
` No , I get it , and I will keep it , ' answer the cat , who be tire and cross ; and they begin a fine quarrel .
But , unluckily , in the midst of it , the cat raise her voice , and the stone fell into the ear of a big fish which happen to be swim by , and though both the cat and the falcon sprang into the water after it , they be too late .
Half drown , and more than half choke , the two faithful servant scramble back to land again .
The falcon fly to a tree and spread his wing in the sun to dry , but the cat , after give herself a good shake , begin to scratch up the sandy bank and to throw the bit into the stream .
` What be you do that for ? '
ask a little fish .
` Do you know that you be make the water quite muddy ? '
` That do n't matter at all to me , ' answer the cat . '
I be go to fill up all the river , so that the fish may die . '
` That be very unkind , a we have never do you any harm , ' reply the fish .
` Why be you so angry with u ? '
` Because one of you have get a stone of mine -- a stone with strange sign upon it -- which drop into the water .
If you will promise to get it back for me , why , perhaps I will leave your river alone . ' '
I will certainly try , ' answer the fish in a great hurry ; ` but you must have a little patience , a it may not be an easy task . '
And in an instant his scale might be see flash quickly along .
The fish swam as fast a he could to the sea , which be not far distant , and call together all his relation who live in the neighbourhood , he tell them of the terrible danger which threaten the dweller in the river .
` None of u have get it , ' say the fish , shake their head ; ` but in the bay yonder there be a tunny who , although he be so old , always go everywhere .
He will be able to tell you about it , if anyone can . '
So the little fish swam off to the tunny , and again related his story .
` Why I be up that river only a few hour ago ! '
cry the tunny ; ` and a I be come back something fell into my ear , and there it be still , for I go to sleep , when I get home and forget all about it .
Perhaps it may be what you want . '
And stretch up his tail he whisk out the stone .
` Yes , I think that must be it , ' say the fish with joy .
And take the stone in his mouth he carry it to the place where the cat be wait for him . '
I be much oblige to you , ' say the cat , a the fish lay the stone on the sand , ` and to reward you , I will let your river alone . '
And she mount the falcon 's back , and they fly to their master .
Ah , how glad he be to see them again with the magic stone in their possession .
In a moment he have wish for a palace , but this time it be of green marble ; and then he wish for the princess and her lady to occupy it .
And there they live for many year , and when the old king die the princess 's husband reign in his stead .
The Story of Manus -LSB- Adapted from Contes Berberes . -RSB-
Far away over the sea of the West there reign a king who have two son ; and the name of the one be Oireal , and the name of the other be Iarlaid .
When the boy be still child , their father and mother die , and a great council be hold , and a man be choose from among them who would rule the kingdom till the boy be old enough to rule it themselves .
The year pass on , and by-and-by another council be hold , and it be agree that the king 's son be now of an age to take the power which rightly belong to them .
So the youth be bidden to appear before the council , and Oireal the elder be small and weak than his brother . '
I like not to leave the deer on the hill and the fish in the river , and sit in judgment on my people , ' say Oireal , when he have listen to the word of the chief of the council .
And the chief waxed angry , and answer quickly : ` Not one clod of earth shall ever be yours if this day you do not take on yourself the vow that be take by the king your father . '
Then spake Iarlaid , the young , and he say : ` Let one half be yours , and the other give to me ; then you will have few people to rule over . '
` Yes , I will do that , ' answered Oireal .
After this , one half of the men of the land of Lochlann do homage to Oireal , and the other half to Iarlaid .
And they govern their kingdom a they would , and in a few year they become grown men with beard on their chin ; and Iarlaid marry the daughter of the king of Greece , and Oireal the daughter of the king of Orkney .
The next year son be bear to Oireal and Iarlaid ; and the son of Oireal be big and strong , but the son of Iarlaid be little and weak , and each have six foster brother who go everywhere with the prince .
One day Manus , son of Oireal , and his cousin , the son of Iarlaid , call to their foster brother , and bid them come and play a game at shinny in the great field near the school where they be teach all that prince and noble should know .
Long they play , and swiftly do the ball pas from one to another , when Manus drive the ball at his cousin , the son of Iarlaid .
The boy , who be not use to be roughly handle , even in jest , cry out that he be sorely hurt , and go home with his foster brother and tell his tale to his mother .
The wife of Iarlaid grow white and angry a she listen , and thrust her son aside , seek the council hall where Iarlaid be sit .
` Manus have drive a ball at my son , and fain would have slain him , ' say she .
` Let an end be put to him and his ill deed . '
But Iarlaid answer : ` Nay , I will not slay the son of my brother . '
` And he shall not slay my son , ' say the queen .
And call to her chamberlain she order him to lead the prince to the four brown boundary of the world , and to leave him there with a wise man , who would care for him , and let no harm befall him .
And the wise man set the boy on the top of a hill where the sun always shone , and he could see every man , but no man could see him .
Then she summon Manus to the castle , and for a whole year she keep him fast , and his own mother could not get speech of him .
But in the end , when the wife of Oireal fell sick , Manus flee from the tower which be his prison , and steal back to his on home .
For a few year he stay there in peace , and then the wife of Iarlaid his uncle send for him .
` It be time that you be marry , ' she say , when she saw that Manus have grow tall and strong like unto Iarlaid .
` Tall and strong you be , and comely of face .
I know a bride that will suit you well , and that be the daughter of the mighty earl of Finghaidh , that do homage for his land to me .
I myself will go with a great following to his house , and you shall go with me . '
Thus it be do ; and though the earl 's wife be eager to keep her daughter with her yet a while , she be fain to yield , a the wife of Iarlaid vow that not a rood of land should the earl have , unless he do her bidding .
But if he would give his daughter to Manus , she would bestow on him the third part of her own kingdom , with much treasure beside .
This she do , not from love to Manus , but because she wish to destroy him .
So they be marry , and ride back with the wife of Iarlaid to her own palace .
And that night , while he be sleep , there come a wise man , who be his father 's friend , and awake him say : ` Danger lie very close to you , Manus , son of Oireal .
You hold yourself favour because you have a a bride the daughter of a mighty earl ; but do you know what bride the wife of Iarlaid sought for her own son ?
It be no worldly wife she find for him , but the swift March wind , and never can you prevail against her . '
` Is it thus ? '
answer Manu .
And at the first streak of dawn he go to the chamber where the queen lay in the midst of her maiden . '
I have come , ' he say , ` for the third part of the kingdom , and for the treasure which you promise me . '
But the wife of Iarlaid laugh a she hear him .
` Not a clod shall you have here , ' spake she .
` You must go to the Old Bergen for that .
Mayhap under it stone and rough mountain you may find a treasure ! '
` Then give me your son 's six foster brother as well a my own , ' answer he .
And the queen give them to him , and they set out for Old Bergen .
A year pass by , and find them still in that wild land , hunt the reindeer , and dig pit for the mountain sheep to fall into .
For a time Manus and his companion live merrily , but at length Manus grow weary of the strange country , and they all take ship for the land of Lochlann .
The wind be fierce and cold , and long be the voyage ; but , one spring day , they sail into the harbour that lay beneath the castle of Iarlaid .
The queen look from her window and behold him mount the hill , with the twelve foster brother behind him .
Then she say to her husband : ` Manus have return with his twelve foster brother .
Would that I could put an end to him and his murdering and his slaying . '
` That be a great pity , ' answer Iarlaid .
` And it be not I that will do it . '
` If you will not do it I will , ' say she .
And she call the twelve foster brother and make them vow fealty to herself .
So Manus be leave with no man , and sorrowful be he when he return alone to Old Bergen .
It be late when his foot touch the shore , and take the path towards the forest .
On his way there meet him a man in a red tunic .
` Is it you , Manus , come back again ? '
ask he .
` It be I , ' answered Manus ; ` alone have I return from the land of Lochlann . '
The man eye him silently for a moment , and then he say : ' I dream that you be gird with a sword and become king of Lochlann . '
But Manus answer : ' I have no sword and my bow be break . ' '
I will give you a new sword if you will make me a promise , ' say the man once more .
` To be sure I will make it , if ever I be king , ' answer Manus .
` But speak , and tell me what promise I be to make . ' '
I be your grandfather 's armourer , ' reply the man , ` and I wish to be your armourer also . '
` That I will promise readily , ' say Manus ; and follow the man into his house , which be at a little distance .
But the house be not like other house , for the wall of every room be hang so thick with arm that you could not see the board .
` Choose what you will , ' say the man ; and Manus unhook a sword and try it across his knee , and it break , and so do the next , and the next .
` Leave off break the sword , ' cry the man , ` and look at this old sword and helmet and tunic that I wear in the war of your grandfather .
Perhaps you may find them of stouter steel . '
And Manus bend the sword thrice across his knee but he could not break it .
So he gird it to his side , and put on the old helmet .
As he fasten the strap his eye fell on a cloth flap outside the window .
` What cloth be that ? '
ask he .
` It be a cloth that be weave by the Little People of the forest , ' say the man ; ` and when you be hungry it will give you food and drink , and if you meet a foe , he will not hurt you , but will stoop and kiss the back of your hand in token of submission .
Take it , and use it well . '
Manus gladly wrap the shawl round his arm , and be leave the house , when he hear the rattling of a chain blow by the wind .
` What chain be that ? '
ask he .
` The creature who have that chain round his neck , need not fear a hundred enemy , ' answer the armourer .
And Manus wind it round him and pass on into the forest .
Suddenly there spring out from the bush two lion , and a lion cub with them .
The fierce beast bound towards him , roar loudly , and would fain have eat him , but quickly Manus stoop and spread the cloth upon the ground .
At that the lion stop , and bow their great head , kiss the back of his wrist and go their way .
But the cub roll itself up in the cloth ; so Manus pick them both up , and carry them with him to Old Bergen .
Another year go by , and then he take the lion cub and set forth to the land of Lochlann .
And the wife of Iarlaid come to meet him , and a brown dog , small but full of courage , come with her .
When the dog behold the lion cub he rush towards him , think to eat him ; but the cub catch the dog by the neck , and shake him , and he be dead .
And the wife of Iarlaid mourn him sore , and her wrath be kindle , and many time she try to slay Manus and his cub , but she could not .
And at last they two go back to Old Bergen , and the twelve foster brother go also .
` Let them go , ' say the wife of Iarlaid , when she hear of it .
` My brother the Red Gruagach will take the head off Manus as well in Old Bergen a elsewhere . '
Now these word be carry by a messenger to the wife of Oireal , and she make haste and send a ship to Old Bergen to bear away her son before the Red Gruagach should take the head off him .
And in the ship be a pilot .
But the wife of Iarlaid make a thick fog to cover the face of the sea , and the rower could not row , l they should drive the ship on to a rock .
And when night come , the lion cub , whose eye be bright and keen , steal up to Manus , and Manus get on his back , and the lion cub sprang ashore and bid Manus rest on the rock and wait for him .
So Manus slept , and by-and-by a voice sound in his ear , say : ` Arise ! '
And he saw a ship in the water beneath him , and in the ship sit the lion cup in the shape of the pilot .
Then they sail away through the fog , and none saw them ; and they reach the land of Lochlann , and the lion cub with the chain round his neck sprang from the ship and Manus follow after .
And the lion cub kill all the men that guard the castle , and Iarlaid and his wife also , so that , in the end , Manus son of Oireal be crown king of Lochlann .
Pinkel the Thief -LSB- Shortened from West Highland Tales . -RSB-
Long , long ago there live a widow who have three son .
The two eldest be grow up , and though they be know to be idle fellow , some of the neighbour have give them work to do on account of the respect in which their mother be hold .
But at the time this story begin they have both be so careless and idle that their master declare they would keep them no longer .
So home they go to their mother and young brother , of whom they think little , because he make himself useful about the house , and look after the hen , and milk the cow .
` Pinkel , ' they call him in scorn , and by-and-by ` Pinkel ' become his name throughout the village .
The two young men think it be much nicer to live at home and be idle than to be oblige to do a quantity of disagreeable thing they do not like , and they would have stay by the fire till the end of their life have not the widow lose patience with them and say that since they would not look for work at home they must seek it elsewhere , for she would not have them under her roof any long .
But she repent bitterly of her word when Pinkel tell her that he too be old enough to go out into the world , and that when he have make a fortune he would send for his mother to keep house for him .
The widow weep many tear at part from her young son , but a she saw that his heart be set upon go with his brother , she do not try to keep him .
So the young men start off one morning in high spirit , never doubt that work such a they might be willing to do would be have for the asking , as soon a their little store of money be spend .
But a very few day of wander open their eye .
Nobody seem to want them , or , if they do , the young men declare that they be not able to undertake all that the farmer or miller or woodcutter require of them .
The young brother , who be wiser , would gladly have do some of the work that the others refuse , but he be small and slight , and no one thought of offer him any .
Therefore they go from one place to another , live only on the fruit and nut they could find in the wood , and get hungry every day .
One night , after they have be walk for many hour and be very tire , they come to a large lake with an island in the middle of it .
From the island stream a strong light , by which they could see everything almost as clearly a if the sun have be shin , and they perceive that , lie half hidden in the rush , be a boat .
` Let u take it and row over to the island , where there must be a house , ' say the eldest brother ; ` and perhaps they will give u food and shelter . '
And they all get in and row across in the direction of the light .
As they draw near the island they saw that it come from a golden lantern hanging over the door of a hut , while sweet tinkle music proceed from some bell attach to the golden horn of a goat which be feed near the cottage .
The young men 's heart rejoice a they think that at last they would be able to rest their weary limb , and they enter the hut , but be amaze to see an ugly old woman inside , wrap in a cloak of gold which light up the whole house .
They look at each other uneasily a she come forward with her daughter , a they know by the cloak that this be a famous witch .
` What do you want ? '
ask she , at the same time signing to her daughter to stir the large pot on the fire .
` We be tired and hungry , and would fain have shelter for the night , ' answer the eldest brother .
` You can not get it here , ' say the witch , ` but you will find both food and shelter in the palace on the other side of the lake .
Take your boat and go ; but leave this boy with me -- I can find work for him , though something tell me he be quick and cunning , and will do me ill . '
` What harm can a poor boy like me do a great Troll like you ? '
answer Pinkel .
` Let me go , I pray you , with my brother .
I will promise never to hurt you . '
And at last the witch let him go , and he follow his brother to the boat .
The way be far than they think , and it be morning before they reach the palace .
Now , at last , their luck seem to have turn , for while the two eldest be give place in the king 's stable , Pinkel be take as page to the little prince .
He be a clever and amuse boy , who saw everything that pass under his eye , and the king notice this , and often employ him in his own service , which make his brother very jealous .
Things go on this way for some time , and Pinkel every day rise in the royal favour .
At length the envy of his brother become so great that they could bear it no longer , and consult together how best they might ruin his credit with the king .
They do not wish to kill him -- though , perhaps , they would not have be sorry if they have heard he be dead -- but merely wish to remind him that he be after all only a child , not half so old and wise a they .
Their opportunity soon come .
It happen to be the king 's custom to visit his stable once a week , so that he might see that his horse be be properly care for .
The next time he enter the stable the two brother manage to be in the way , and when the king praise the beautiful satin skin of the horse under their charge , and remark how different be their condition when his groom have first come across the lake , the young men at once begin to speak of the wonderful light which sprang from the lantern over the hut .
The king , who have a passion for collection all the rare thing he could find , fell into the trap directly , and inquire where he could get this marvellous lantern .
` Send Pinkel for it , Sire , ' say they .
` It belong to an old witch , who no doubt come by it in some evil way .
But Pinkel have a smooth tongue , and he can get the good of any woman , old or young . '
` Then bid him go this very night , ' cry the king ; ` and if he bring me the lantern I will make him one of the chief men about my person . '
Pinkel be much please at the thought of his adventure , and without more ado he borrow a little boat which lay moor to the shore , and row over to the island at once .
It be late by the time he arrive , and almost dark , but he know by the savoury smell that reach him that the witch be cook her supper .
So he climb softly on to the roof , and , peer , watch till the old woman 's back be turn , when he quickly draw a handful of salt from his pocket and throw it into the pot .
Scarcely have he do this when the witch call her daughter and bid her lift the pot off the fire and put the stew into a dish , a it have be cook quite long enough and she be hungry .
But no sooner have she taste it than she put her spoon down , and declare that her daughter must have be meddle with it , for it be impossible to eat anything that be all make of salt .
` Go down to the spring in the valley , and get some fresh water , that I may prepare a fresh supper , ' cry she , ` for I feel half-starved . '
` But , mother , ' answer the girl , ` how can I find the well in this darkness ?
For you know that the lantern 's ray shed no light down there . '
` Well , then , take the lantern with you , ' answer the witch , ` for supper I must have , and there be no water that be nearer . '
So the girl take her pail in one hand and the golden lantern in the other , and hasten away to the well , follow by Pinkel , who take care to keep out of the way of the ray .
When at last she stoop to fill her pail at the well Pinkel push her into it , and snatch up the lantern hurry back to his boat and row off from the shore .
He be already a long distance from the island when the witch , who wonder what have become of her daughter , go to the door to look for her .
Close around the hut be thick darkness , but what be that bob light that stream across the water ?
The witch 's heart sink a all at once it flash upon her what have happen .
` Is that you , Pinkel ? '
cry she ; and the youth answer : ` Yes , dear mother , it be I ! '
` And be you not a knave for rob me ? '
say she .
` Truly , dear mother , I be , ' reply Pinkel , row faster than ever , for he be half afraid that the witch might come after him .
But she have no power on the water , and turn angrily into the hut , mutter to herself all the while : ` Take care !
take care !
A second time you will not escape so easily ! '
The sun have not yet rise when Pinkel return to the palace , and , enter the king 's chamber , he hold up the lantern so that it ray might fall upon the bed .
In an instant the king awoke , and see the golden lantern shed it light upon him , he spring up , and embrace Pinkel with joy . '
O cunning one , ' cry he , ` what treasure hast thou bring me ! '
And call for his attendant he order that room next his own should be prepare for Pinkel , and that the youth might enter his presence at any hour .
And besides this , he be to have a seat on the council .
It may easily be guess that all this make the brother more envious than they be before ; and they cast about in their mind afresh how best they might destroy him .
At length they remember the goat with golden horn and the bell , and they rejoice ; ` For , ' say they , ` THIS time the old woman will be on the watch , and let him be as clever a he like , the bell on the horn be sure to warn her . '
So when , a before , the king come down to the stable and praise the cleverness of their brother , the young men tell him of that other marvel possess by the witch , the goat with the golden horn .
From this moment the king never close his eye at night for longing after this wonderful creature .
He understand something of the danger that there might be in try to steal it , now that the witch 's suspicion be arouse , and he spend hour in make plan for outwit her .
But somehow he never could think of anything that would do , and at last , a the brother have foreseen , he send for Pinkel . '
I hear , ' he say , ` that the old witch on the island have a goat with golden horn from which hang bell that tinkle the sweet music .
That goat I must have !
But , tell me , how be I to get it ?
I would give the third part of my kingdom to anyone who would bring it to me . ' '
I will fetch it myself , ' answer Pinkel .
This time it be easy for Pinkel to approach the island unseen , a there be no golden lantern to throw it beam over the water .
But , on the other hand , the goat sleep inside the hut , and would therefore have to be take from under the very eye of the old woman .
How be he to do it ?
All the way across the lake he think and think , till at length a plan come into his head which seem a if it might do , though he know it would be very difficult to carry out .
The first thing he do when he reach the shore be to look about for a piece of wood , and when he have find it he hide himself close to the hut , till it grow quite dark and near the hour when the witch and her daughter go to bed .
Then he creep up and fix the wood under the door , which open outwards , in such a manner that the more you try to shut it the more firmly it stick .
And this be what happen when the girl go a usual to bolt the door and make all fast for the night .
` What be you do ? '
ask the witch , a her daughter keep tug at the handle .
` There be something the matter with the door ; it wo n't shut , ' answer she .
` Well , leave it alone ; there be nobody to hurt u , ' say the witch , who be very sleepy ; and the girl do a she be bid , and go to bed .
Very soon they both might have be hear snoring , and Pinkel know that his time be come .
Slipping off his shoe he steal into the hut on tiptoe , and take from his pocket some food of which the goat be particularly fond , he lay it under his nose .
Then , while the animal be eat it , he stuff each golden bell with wool which he have also bring with him , stop every minute to listen , l the witch should awaken , and he should find himself change into some dreadful bird or beast .
But the snoring still continue , and he go on with his work as quickly a he could .
When the last bell be do he draw another handful of food out of his pocket , and hold it out to the goat , which instantly rise to it foot and follow Pinkel , who back slowly to the door , and directly he get outside he seize the goat in his arm and run down to the place where he have moor his boat .
As soon a he have reach the middle of the lake , Pinkel take the wool out of the bell , which begin to tinkle loudly .
Their sound awake the witch , who cry out a before : ` Is that you , Pinkel ? '
` Yes , dear mother , it be I , ' say Pinkel .
` Have you steal my golden goat ? '
ask she .
` Yes , dear mother , I have , ' answer Pinkel .
` Are you not a knave , Pinkel ? '
` Yes , dear mother , I be , ' he reply .
And the old witch shout in a rage : ` Ah !
beware how you come hither again , for next time you shall not escape me ! '
But Pinkel laugh and row on .
The king be so delighted with the goat that he always keep it by his side , night and day ; and , a he have promise , Pinkel be make ruler over the third part of the kingdom .
As may be suppose , the brother be more furious than ever , and grow quite thin with rage .
` How can we get rid of him ? '
say one to the other .
And at length they remember the golden cloak .
` He will need to be clever if he be to steal that ! '
they cry , with a chuckle .
And when next the king come to see his horse they begin to speak of Pinkel and his marvellous cunning , and how he have contrive to steal the lantern and the goat , which nobody else would have be able to do .
` But a he be there , it be a pity he could not have bring away the golden cloak , ' add they .
` The golden cloak !
what be that ? '
ask the king .
And the young men describe it beauty in such glowing word that the king declare he should never know a day 's happiness till he have wrap the cloak round his own shoulder .
` And , ' add he , ` the man who bring it to me shall wed my daughter , and shall inherit my throne . '
` None can get it save Pinkel , ' say they ; for they do not imagine that the witch , after two warning , could allow their brother to escape a third time .
So Pinkel be send for , and with a glad heart he set out .
He pass many hour invent first one plan and then another , till he have a scheme ready which he think might prove successful .
Thrusting a large bag inside his coat , he push off from the shore , take care this time to reach the island in daylight .
Having make his boat fast to a tree , he walk up to the hut , hang his head , and put on a face that be both sorrowful and ashamed .
` Is that you , Pinkel ? '
ask the witch when she saw him , her eye gleam savagely .
` Yes , dear mother , it be I , ' answer Pinkel .
` So you have dare , after all you have do , to put yourself in my power ! '
cry she .
` Well , you sha 'n ' t escape me THIS time ! '
And she take down a large knife and begin to sharpen it . '
` Oh !
dear mother , spare me ! '
shriek Pinkel , fall on his knee , and look wildly about him .
` Spare you , indeed , you thief !
Where be my lantern and my goat ?
No !
not !
there be only one fate for robber ! '
And she brandish the knife in the air so that it glitter in the firelight .
` Then , if I must die , ' say Pinkel , who , by this time , be get really rather frighten , ` let me at least choose the manner of my death .
I be very hungry , for I have have nothing to eat all day .
Put some poison , if you like , into the porridge , but at least let me have a good meal before I die . '
` That be not a bad idea , ' answer the woman ; ` as long a you do die , it be all one to me . '
And ladle out a large bowl of porridge , she stir some poisonous herb into it , and set about work that have to be do .
Then Pinkel hastily pour all the content of the bowl into his bag , and make a great noise with his spoon , a if he be scrap up the last morsel .
` Poisoned or not , the porridge be excellent .
I have eat it , every scrap ; do give me some more , ' say Pinkel , turn towards her .
` Well , you have a fine appetite , young man , ' answer the witch ; ` however , it be the last time you will ever eat it , so I will give you another bowlful . '
And rub in the poisonous herb , she pour him out half of what remain , and then go to the window to call her cat .
In an instant Pinkel again empty the porridge into the bag , and the next minute he roll on the floor , twist himself about a if in agony , utter loud groan the while .
Suddenly he grow silent and lay still .
` Ah !
I think a second dose of that poison would be too much for you , ' say the witch look at him . '
I warn you what would happen if you come back .
I wish that all thief be as dead a you !
But why do not my lazy girl bring the wood I send her for , it will soon be too dark for her to find her way ?
I suppose I must go and search for her .
What a trouble girl be ! '
And she go to the door to watch if there be any sign of her daughter .
But nothing could be see of her , and heavy rain be fall .
` It be no night for my cloak , ' she mutter ; ` it would be cover with mud by the time I get back . '
So she take it off her shoulder and hung it carefully up in a cupboard in the room .
After that she put on her clog and start to seek her daughter .
Directly the last sound of the clog have cease , Pinkel jump up and take down the cloak , and row off as fast a he could .
He have not go far when a puff of wind unfold the cloak , and it brightness shed gleam across the water .
The witch , who be just enter the forest , turn round at that moment and saw the golden ray .
She forget all about her daughter , and run down to the shore , scream with rage at be outwit a third time .
` Is that you , Pinkel ? '
cry she .
` Yes , dear mother , it be I. ' ` Have you take my gold cloak ? '
` Yes , dear mother , I have . '
` Are you not a great knave ? '
` Yes , truly dear mother , I be . '
And so indeed he be !
But , all the same , he carry the cloak to the king 's palace , and in return he receive the hand of the king 's daughter in marriage .
People say that it be the bride who ought to have wear the cloak at her wedding feast ; but the king be so pleased with it that he would not part from it ; and to the end of his life be never see without it .
After his death , Pinkel become king ; and let up hope that he give up his bad and thievish way , and rule his subject well .
As for his brother , he do not punish them , but leave them in the stable , where they grumble all day long .
The Adventures of a Jackal -LSB- Thorpe 's Yule-Tide Stories . -RSB-
In a country which be full of wild beast of all sort there once live a jackal and a hedgehog , and , unlike though they be , the two animal make great friend , and be often see in each other 's company .
One afternoon they be walk along a road together , when the jackal , who be the taller of the two , exclaim : ` Oh !
there be a barn full of corn ; let u go and eat some . '
` Yes , do let u ! '
answer the hedgehog .
So they go to the barn , and eat till they could eat no more .
Then the jackal put on his shoe , which he have take off so a to make no noise , and they return to the high road .
After they have go some way they meet a panther , who stop , and bow politely , say : ` Excuse my speaking to you , but I can not help admire those shoe of yours .
Do you mind tell me who make them ? '
` Yes , I think they be rather nice , ' answer the jackal ; ' I make them myself , though . '
` Could you make me a pair like them ? '
ask the panther eagerly . '
I would do my best , of course , ' reply the jackal ; ` but you must kill me a cow , and when we have eat the flesh I will take the skin and make your shoe out of it . '
So the panther prowl about until he saw a fine cow graze apart from the rest of the herd .
He kill it instantly , and then give a cry to the jackal and hedgehog to come to the place where he be .
They soon skin the dead beast , and spread it skin out to dry , after which they have a grand feast before they curl themselves up for the night , and sleep soundly .
Next morning the jackal get up early and set to work upon the shoe , while the panther sit by and look on with delight .
At last they be finish , and the jackal arose and stretch himself .
` Now go and lay them in the sun out there , ' say he ; ` in a couple of hour they will be ready to put on ; but do not attempt to wear them before , or you will feel them most uncomfortable .
But I see the sun be high in the heaven , and we must be continue our journey . '
The panther , who always believe what everybody tell him , do exactly a he be bid , and in two hour ' time begin to fasten on the shoe .
They certainly set off his paw wonderfully , and he stretch out his forepaw and look at them with pride .
But when he try to walk -- ah !
that be another story !
They be so stiff and hard that he nearly shriek every step he take , and at last he sink down where he be , and actually begin to cry .
After some time some little partridge who be hop about heard the poor panther 's groan , and go up to see what be the matter .
He have never try to make his dinner off them , and they have always be quite friendly .
` You seem in pain , ' say one of them , flutter close to him , ` can we help you ? '
` Oh , it be the jackal !
He make me these shoe ; they be so hard and tight that they hurt my foot , and I can not manage to kick them off . '
` Lie still , and we will soften them , ' answer the kind little partridge .
And call to his brother , they all fly to the near spring , and carry water in their beak , which they pour over the shoe .
This they do till the hard leather grow soft , and the panther be able to slip his foot out of them .
` Oh , thank you , thank you , ' he cry , skip round with joy . '
I feel a different creature .
Now I will go after the jackal and pay him my debt . '
And he bound away into the forest .
But the jackal have be very cunning , and have trot backwards and forward and in and out , so that it be very difficult to know which track he have really follow .
At length , however , the panther catch sight of his enemy , at the same moment that the jackal have catch sight of him .
The panther give a loud roar , and sprang forward , but the jackal be too quick for him and plunge into a dense thicket , where the panther could not follow .
Disgusted with his failure , but more angry than ever , the panther lay down for a while to consider what he should do next , and a he be think , an old man come by .
` Oh !
father , tell me how I can repay the jackal for the way he have serve me ! '
And without more ado he tell his story .
` If you take my advice , ' answer the old man , ` you will kill a cow , and invite all the jackal in the forest to the feast .
Watch them carefully while they be eat , and you will see that most of them keep their eye on their food .
But if one of them glance at you , you will know that be the traitor . '
The panther , whose manner be always good , thank the old man , and follow his counsel .
The cow be kill , and the partridge fly about with invitation to the jackal , who gather in large number to the feast .
The wicked jackal come amongst them ; but a the panther have only see him once he could not distinguish him from the rest .
However , they all take their place on wooden seat place round the dead cow , which be lay across the bough of a fall tree , and begin their dinner , each jackal fix his eye greedily on the piece of meat before him .
Only one of them seem uneasy , and every now and then glance in the direction of his host .
This the panther notice , and suddenly make a bound at the culprit and seize his tail ; but again the jackal be too quick for him , and catch up a knife he cut off his tail and dart into the forest , follow by all the rest of the party .
And before the panther have recover from his surprise he find himself alone .
` What be I to do now ? '
he ask the old man , who soon come back to see how thing have turn out .
` It be very unfortunate , certainly , ' answer he ; ` but I think I know where you can find him .
There be a melon garden about two mile from here , and a jackal be very fond of melon they be nearly sure to have go there to fee .
If you see a tailless jackal you will know that he be the one you want . '
So the panther thank him and go his way .
Now the jackal have guess what advice the old man would give his enemy , and so , while his friend be greedily eat the ripe melon in the sunny corner of the garden , he steal behind them and tie their tail together .
He have only just finish when his ear catch the sound of break branch ; and he cry : ` Quick !
quick !
here come the master of the garden ! '
And the jackal spring up and run away in all direction , leave their tail behind them .
And how be the panther to know which be his enemy ?
` They none of them have any tail , ' he say sadly to the old man , ` and I be tire of hunt them .
I shall leave them alone and go and catch something for supper . '
Of course the hedgehog have not be able to take part in any of these adventure ; but as soon a all danger be over , the jackal go to look for his friend , whom he be lucky enough to find at home .
` Ah , there you be , ' he say gaily . '
I have lose my tail since I saw you last .
And other people have lose theirs too ; but that be no matter !
I be hungry , so come with me to the shepherd who be sit over there , and we will ask him to sell u one of his sheep . '
` Yes , that be a good plan , ' answer the hedgehog .
And he walk as fast a his little leg would go to keep up with the jackal .
When they reach the shepherd the jackal pull out his purse from under his foreleg , and make his bargain .
` Only wait till to-morrow , ' say the shepherd , ` and I will give you the big sheep you ever saw .
But he always feed at some distance from the rest of the flock , and it would take me a long time to catch him . '
` Well , it be very tiresome , but I suppose I must wait , ' reply the jackal .
And he and the hedgehog look about for a nice dry cave in which to make themselves comfortable for the night .
But , after they have go , the shepherd kill one of his sheep , and strip off his skin , which he sew tightly round a greyhound he have with him , and put a cord round it neck .
Then he lay down and go to sleep .
Very , very early , before the sun be properly up , the jackal and the hedgehog be pull at the shepherd 's cloak .
` Wake up , ' they say , ` and give u that sheep .
We have have nothing to eat all night , and be very hungry . '
The shepherd yawn and rub his eye .
` He be tie up to that tree ; go and take him . '
So they go to the tree and unfasten the cord , and turn to go back to the cave where they have sleep , drag the greyhound after them .
When they reach the cave the jackal say to the hedgehog .
` Before I kill him let me see whether he be fat or thin . '
And he stand a little way back , so that he might the good examine the animal .
After look at him , with his head on one side , for a minute or two , he nod gravely .
` He be quite fat enough ; he be a good sheep . '
But the hedgehog , who sometimes show more cunning than anyone would have guess , answer : ` My friend , you be talk nonsense .
The wool be indeed a sheep 's wool , but the paw of my uncle the greyhound peep out from underneath . '
` He be a sheep , ' repeat the jackal , who do not like to think anyone clever than himself .
` Hold the cord while I look at him , ' answer the hedgehog .
Very unwillingly the jackal hold the rope , while the hedgehog walk slowly round the greyhound till he reach the jackal again .
He know quite well by the paw and tail that it be a greyhound and not a sheep , that the shepherd have sell them ; and a he could not tell what turn affair might take , he resolve to get out of the way .
` Oh !
yes , you be right , ' he say to the jackal ; ` but I never can eat till I have first drunk .
I will just go and quench my thirst from that spring at the edge of the wood , and then I shall be ready for breakfast . '
` Do n't be long , then , ' call the jackal , a the hedgehog hurry off at his best pace .
And he lay down under a rock to wait for him .
More than an hour pass by and the hedgehog have have plenty of time to go to the spring and back , and still there be no sign of him .
And this be very natural , a he have hide himself in some long grass under a tree !
At length the jackal guess that for some reason his friend have run away , and determine to wait for his breakfast no longer .
So he go up to the place where the greyhound have be tether and untie the rope .
But just a he be about to spring on his back and give him a deadly bite , the jackal hear a low growl , which never proceed from the throat of any sheep .
Like a flash of lightning the jackal throw down the cord and be fly across the plain ; but though his leg be long , the greyhound 's leg be long still , and he soon come up with his prey .
The jackal turn to fight , but he be no match for the greyhound , and in a few minute he be lie dead on the ground , while the greyhound be trot peacefully back to the shepherd .
The Adventures of the Jackal 's Eldest Son -LSB- Nouveaux Contes Berberes , par Rene Basset . -RSB-
Now , though the jackal be dead , he have leave two son behind him , every whit a cunning and tricky a their father .
The elder of the two be a fine handsome creature , who have a pleasant manner and make many friend .
The animal he saw most of be a hyena ; and one day , when they be take a walk together , they pick up a beautiful green cloak , which have evidently be drop by some one riding across the plain on a camel .
Of course each want to have it , and they almost quarrel over the matter ; but at length it be settle that the hyena should wear the cloak by day and the jackal by night .
After a little while , however , the jackal become discontent with this arrangement , declare that none of his friend , who be quite different from those of the hyena , could see the splendour of the mantle , and that it be only fair that he should sometimes be allow to wear it by day .
To this the hyena would by no mean consent , and they be on the eve of a quarrel when the hyena propose that they should ask the lion to judge between them .
The jackal agree to this , and the hyena wrap the cloak about him , and they both trot off to the lion 's den .
The jackal , who be fond of talk , at once tell the story ; and when it be finish the lion turn to the hyena and ask if it be true .
` Quite true , your majesty , ' answer the hyena .
` Then lay the cloak on the ground at my foot , ' say the lion , ` and I will give my judgment . '
So the mantle be spread upon the red earth , the hyena and the jackal stand on each side of it .
There be silence for a few moment , and then the lion sit up , look very great and wise .
` My judgment be that the garment shall belong wholly to whoever first ring the bell of the near mosque at dawn to-morrow .
Now go ; for much business awaits me ! '
All that night the hyena sit up , fear l the jackal should reach the bell before him , for the mosque be close at hand .
With the first streak of dawn he bound away to the bell , just a the jackal , who have sleep soundly all night , be rise to his foot .
` Good luck to you , ' cry the jackal .
And throw the cloak over his back he dart away across the plain , and be see no more by his friend the hyena .
After run several mile the jackal think he be safe from pursuit , and see a lion and another hyena talk together , he stroll up to join them .
` Good morning , ' he say ; ` may I ask what be the matter ?
You seem very serious about something . '
` Pray sit down , ' answer the lion .
` We be wonder in which direction we should go to find the best dinner .
The hyena wish to go to the forest , and I to the mountain .
What do you say ? '
` Well , a I be saunter over the plain , just now , I notice a flock of sheep grazing , and some of them have wander into a little valley quite out of sight of the shepherd .
If you keep among the rock you will never be observe .
But perhaps you will allow me to go with you and show you the way ? '
` You be really very kind , ' answer the lion .
And they creep steadily along till at length they reach the mouth of the valley where a ram , a sheep and a lamb be feed on the rich grass , unconscious of their danger .
` How shall we divide them ? '
ask the lion in a whisper to the hyena .
` Oh , it be easily do , ' reply the hyena .
` The lamb for me , the sheep for the jackal , and the ram for the lion . '
` So I be to have that lean creature , which be nothing but horn , be I ? '
cry the lion in a rage . '
I will teach you to divide thing in that manner ! '
And he give the hyena two great blow , which stretch him dead in a moment .
Then he turn to the jackal and say : ` How would you divide them ? '
` Quite differently from the hyena , ' reply the jackal .
` You will breakfast off the lamb , you will dine off the sheep , and you will sup off the ram . '
` Dear me , how clever you be !
Who teach you such wisdom ? '
exclaim the lion , look at him admiringly .
` The fate of the hyena , ' answer the jackal , laughing , and run off at his best speed ; for he saw two men arm with spear come close behind the lion !
The jackal continue to run till at last he could run no longer .
He fling himself under a tree pant for breath , when he hear a rustle amongst the grass , and his father 's old friend the hedgehog appear before him .
` Oh , be it you ? '
ask the little creature ; ` how strange that we should meet so far from home ! ' '
I have just have a narrow escape of my life , ' gasp the jackal , ` and I need some sleep .
After that we must think of something to do to amuse ourselves . '
And he lay down again and sleep soundly for a couple of hour .
` Now I be ready , ' say he ; ` have you anything to propose ? '
` In a valley beyond those tree , ' answer the hedgehog , ` there be a small farmhouse where the best butter in the world be make .
I know their way , and in an hour 's time the farmer 's wife will be off to milk the cow , which she keep at some distance .
We could easily get in at the window of the shed where she keep the butter , and I will watch , l some one should come unexpectedly , while you have a good meal .
Then you shall watch , and I will eat . '
` That sound a good plan , ' reply the jackal ; and they set off together .
But when they reach the farmhouse the jackal say to the hedgehog : ` Go in and fetch the pot of butter and I will hide them in a safe place . '
` Oh no , ' cry the hedgehog , ' I really could n't .
They would find out directly !
And , besides , it be so different just eat a little now and then . '
` Do a I bid you at once , ' say the jackal , look at the hedgehog so sternly that the little fellow dare say no more , and soon roll the jar to the window where the jackal lift them out one by one .
When they be all in a row before him he give a sudden start .
` Run for your life , ' he whisper to his companion ; ' I see the woman come over the hill ! '
And the hedgehog , his heart beating , set off a fast a he could .
The jackal remain where he be , shake with laughter , for the woman be not in sight at all , and he have only send the hedgehog away because he do not want him to know where the jar of butter be bury .
But every day he steal out to their hiding-place and have a delicious feast .
At length , one morning , the hedgehog suddenly say : ` You never tell me what you do with those jar ? '
` Oh , I hide them safely till the farm people should have forget all about them , ' reply the jackal .
` But a they be still search for them we must wait a little long , and then I 'll bring them home , and we will share them between u . '
So the hedgehog wait and wait ; but every time he ask if there be no chance of get jar of butter the jackal put him off with some excuse .
After a while the hedgehog become suspicious , and say : ' I should like to know where you have hide them .
To-night , when it be quite dark , you shall show me the place . ' '
I really ca n't tell you , ' answer the jackal .
` You talk so much that you would be sure to confide the secret to somebody , and then we should have have our trouble for nothing , besides run the risk of our neck be break by the farmer .
I can see that he be get dishearten , and very soon he will give up the search .
Have patience just a little long . '
The hedgehop say no more , and pretend to be satisfy ; but when some day have go by he wake the jackal , who be sleep soundly after a hunt which have last several hour . '
I have just have notice , ' remark the hedgehog , shake him , ` that my family wish to have a banquet to-morrow , and they have invite you to it .
Will you come ? '
` Certainly , ' answer the jackal , ` with pleasure .
But a I have to go out in the morning you can meet me on the road . '
` That will do very well , ' reply the hedgehog .
And the jackal go to sleep again , for he be oblige to be up early .
Punctual to the moment the hedgehog arrive at the place appoint for their meeting , and a the jackal be not there he sit down and wait for him .
` Ah , there you be ! '
he cry , when the dusky yellow form at last turn the corner . '
I have nearly give you up !
Indeed , I almost wish you have not come , for I hardly know where I shall hide you . '
` Why should you hide me anywhere ? '
ask the jackal .
` What be the matter with you ? '
` Well , so many of the guest have bring their dog and mule with them , that I fear it may hardly be safe for you to go amongst them .
No ; do n't run off that way , ' he add quickly , ` because there be another troop that be come over the hill .
Lie down here , and I will throw these sack over you ; and keep still for your life , whatever happen . '
And what do happen be , that when the jackal be lie cover up , under a little hill , the hedgehog set a great stone rolling , which crush him to death .
The Adventures of the Younger Son of the Jackal -LSB- Contes Berberes . -RSB-
Now that the father and elder brother be both dead , all that be leave of the jackal family be one son , who be no less cunning than the others have be .
He do not like stay in the same place any good than they , and nobody ever know in what part of the country he might be find next .
One day , when we be wander about he behold a nice fat sheep , which be crop the grass and seem quite contented with her lot .
` Good morning , ' say the jackal , ' I be so glad to see you .
I have be look for you everywhere . '
` For ME ? '
answer the sheep , in an astonished voice ; ` but we have never meet before ! '
` No ; but I have hear of you .
Oh !
You do n't know what fine thing I have hear !
Ah , well , some people have all the luck ! '
` You be very kind , I be sure , ' answer the sheep , not know which way to look .
` Is there any way in which I can help you ? '
` There be something that I have set my heart on , though I hardly like to propose it on so short an acquaintance ; but from what people have tell me , I think that you and I might keep house together comfortably , if you would only agree to try .
I have several field belong to me , and if they be keep well watered they bear wonderful crop . '
` Perhaps I might come for a short time , ' say the sheep , with a little hesitation ; ` and if we do not get on , we can part company . '
` Oh , thank you , thank you , ' cry the jackal ; ` do not let u lose a moment . '
And he hold out his paw in such an inviting manner that the sheep get up and trot beside him till they reach home .
` Now , ' say the jackal , ` you go to the well and fetch the water , and I will pour it into the trench that run between the patch of corn . '
And a he do so he sing lustily .
The work be very hard , but the sheep do not grumble , and by-and-by be reward at see the little green head poke themselves through earth .
After that the hot sun ripen them quickly , and soon harvest time be come .
Then the grain be cut and ground and ready for sale .
When everything be complete , the jackal say to the sheep : ` Now let u divide it , so that we can each do what we like with his share . '
` You do it , ' answer the sheep ; ` here be the scale .
You must weigh it carefully . '
So the jackal begin to weigh it , and when he have finish , he count out loud : ` One , two , three , four , five , six , seven part for the jackal , and one part for the sheep .
If she like it she can take it , if not , she can leave it . '
The sheep look at the two heap in silence -- one so large , the other so small ; and then she answer : ` Wait for a minute , while I fetch some sack to carry away my share . '
But it be not sack that the sheep want ; for as soon a the jackal could no longer see her she set forth at her best pace to the home of the greyhound , where she arrive pant with the haste she have make .
` Oh , good uncle , help me , I pray you ! '
she cry , as soon a she could speak .
` Why , what be the matter ? '
ask the greyhound , look up with astonishment . '
I beg you to return with me , and frighten the jackal into pay me what he owe me , ' answer the sheep .
` For month we have live together , and I have twice every day draw the water , while he only pour it into the trench .
Together we have reap our harvest ; and now , when the moment to divide our crop have come , he have take seven part for himself , and only leave one for me . '
She finish , and give herself a twist , pass her woolly tail across her eye ; while the greyhound watch her , but hold his peace .
Then he say : ` Bring me a sack . '
And the sheep hasten away to fetch one .
Very soon she return , and lay the sack down before him .
` Open it wide , that I may get in , ' cry he ; and when he be comfortably roll up inside he bid the sheep take him on her back , and hasten to the place where she have leave the jackal .
She find him wait for her , and pretend to be asleep , though she clearly saw him wink one of his eye .
However , she take no notice , but throw the sack roughly on the ground , she exclaim : ` Now measure ! '
At this the jackal get up , and go to the heap of grain which lay close by , he divide it a before into eight portion -- seven for himself and one for the sheep .
` What be you do that for ? '
ask she indignantly .
` You know quite well that it be I who draw the water , and you who only pour it into the trench . '
` You be mistake , ' answer the jackal .
` It be I who draw the water , and you who pour it into the trench .
Anybody will tell you that !
If you like , I will ask those people who be dig there ! '
` Very well , ' reply the sheep .
And the jackal call out : ` Ho !
You digger , tell me : Who be it you hear sing over the work ? '
` Why , it be you , of course , jackal !
You sing so loud that the whole world might have hear you ! '
` And who it be that sings -- he who draw the water , or he who empty it ? '
` Why , certainly he who draw the water ! '
` You hear ? '
say the jackal , turn to the sheep .
` Now come and carry away your own portion , or else I shall take it for myself . '
` You have get the good of me , ' answer the sheep ; ` and I suppose I must confess myself beaten !
But a I bear no malice , go and eat some of the date that I have bring in that sack . '
And the jackal , who love date , run instantly back , and tore open the mouth of the sack .
But just a he be about to plunge his nose in he saw two brown eye calmly look at him .
In an instant he have let fall the flap of the sack and bound back to where the sheep be stand . '
I be only in fun ; and you have bring my uncle the greyhound .
Take away the sack , we will make the division over again . '
And he begin rearrange the heap .
` One , two , three , four , five , six , seven , for my mother the sheep , and one for the jackal , ' count he ; cast timid glance all the while at the sack .
` Now you can take your share and go , ' say the sheep .
And the jackal do not need twice tell !
Whenever the sheep look up , she still saw him fly , fly across the plain ; and , for all I know , he may be fly across it still .
The Three Treasures of the Giants -LSB- Contes Berberes , par Rene Basset . -RSB-
Long , long ago , there live an old man and his wife who have three son ; the eldest be call Martin , the second Michael , while the third be name Jack .
One evening they be all seat round the table , eat their supper of bread and milk .
` Martin , ' say the old man suddenly , ' I feel that I can not live much longer .
You , a the eldest , will inherit this hut ; but , if you value my blessing , be good to your mother and brother . '
` Certainly , father ; how can you suppose I should do them wrong ? '
reply Martin indignantly , help himself to all the best bit in the dish a he speak .
The old man saw nothing , but Michael look on in surprise , and Jack be so astonished that he quite forget to eat his own supper .
A little while after , the father fell ill , and send for his son , who be out hunting , to bid him farewell .
After give good advice to the two eldest , he turn to Jack .
` My boy , ' he say , ` you have not get quite as much sense a other people , but if Heaven have deprive you of some of your wit , it be give you a kind heart .
Always listen to what it say , and take heed to the word of your mother and brother , as well a you be able ! '
So say the old man sink back on his pillow and die .
The cry of grief utter by Martin and Michael sound through the house , but Jack remain by the bedside of his father , still and silent , a if he be dead also .
At length he get up , and go into the garden , hid himself in some tree , and wept like a child , while his two brother make ready for the funeral .
No sooner be the old man bury than Martin and Michael agree that they would go into the world together to seek their fortune , while Jack stay at home with their mother .
Jack would have like nothing well than to sit and dream by the fire , but the mother , who be very old herself , declare that there be no work for him to do , and that he must seek it with his brother .
So , one fine morning , all three set out ; Martin and Michael carry two great bag full of food , but Jack carry nothing .
This make his brother very angry , for the day be hot and the bag be heavy , and about noon they sit down under a tree and begin to eat .
Jack be as hungry a they be , but he know that it be no use ask for anything ; and he throw himself under another tree , and weep bitterly .
` Another time perhaps you wo n't be so lazy , and will bring food for yourself , ' say Martin , but to his surprise Jack answer : ` You be a nice pair !
You talk of seek your fortune so a not to be a burden on our mother , and you begin by carry off all the food she have in the house ! '
This reply be so unexpected that for some moment neither of the brother make any answer .
Then they offer their brother some of their food , and when he have finish eat they go their way once more .
Towards even they reach a small hut , and knock at the door , ask if they might spend the night there .
The man , who be a wood-cutter , invite them him , and beg them to sit down to supper .
Martin thank him , but be very proud , explain that it be only shelter they want , a they have plenty of food with them ; and he and Michael at once open their bag and begin to eat , while Jack hid himself in a corner .
The wife , on see this , take pity on him , and call him to come and share their supper , which he gladly do , and very good he find it .
At this , Martin regret deeply that he have be so foolish a to refuse , for his bit of bread and cheese seem very hard when he smelt the savoury soup his brother be enjoy .
` He sha n't have such a chance again , ' think he ; and the next morning he insist on plunge into a thick forest where they be likely to meet nobody .
For a long time they wander hither and thither , for they have no path to guide them ; but at last they come upon a wide clearing , in the midst of which stand a castle .
Jack shout with delight , but Martin , who be in a bad temper , say sharply : ` We must have take a wrong turning !
Let u go back . '
` Idiot ! '
replied Michael , who be hungry too , and , like many people when they be hungry , very cross also .
` We set out to travel through the world , and what do it matter if we go to the right or to the leave ? '
And , without another word , take the path to the castle , closely follow by Jack , and after a moment by Martin likewise .
The door of the castle stand open , and they enter a great hall , and look about them .
Not a creature be to be see , and suddenly Martin -- he do not know why -- felt a little frightened .
He would have leave the castle at once , but stop when Jack boldly walk up to a door in the wall and open it .
He could not for very shame be outdo by his young brother , and pass behind him into another splendid hall , which be fill from floor to ceiling with great piece of copper money .
The sight quite dazzle Martin and Michael , who empty all the provision that remain out of their bag , and heap them up instead with handful of copper .
Scarcely have they do this when Jack throw open another door , and this time it lead to a hall fill with silver .
In an instant his brother have turn their bag upside down , so that the copper money tumble out on to the floor , and be shovel in handful of the silver instead .
They have hardly finish , when Jack open yet a third door , and all three fell back in amazement , for this room a a mass of gold , so bright that their eye grow sore a they look at it .
However , they soon recover from their surprise , and quickly empty their bag of silver , and fill them with gold instead .
When they would hold no more , Martin say : ` We have well hurry off now l somebody else should come , and we might not know what to do ' ; and , follow by Michael , he hastily leave the castle .
Jack linger behind for a few minute to put piece of gold , silver , and copper into his pocket , and to eat the food that his brother have throw down in the first room .
Then he go after them , and find them lie down to rest in the midst of a forest .
It be near sunset , and Martin begin to feel hungry , so , when Jack arrive , he bid him return to the castle and bring the bread and cheese that they have leave there .
` It be hardly worth do that , ' answered Jack ; ` for I pick up the piece and eat them myself . '
At this reply both brother be beside themselves with anger , and fell upon the boy , beat him , and call him names , till they be quite tire .
` Go where you like , ' cry Martin with a final kick ; ` but never come near u again . '
And poor Jack ran weep into the wood .
The next morning his brother go home , and buy a beautiful house , where they live with their mother like great lord .
Jack remain for some hour in hiding , thankful to be safe from his tormentor ; but when no one come to trouble him , and his back do not ache so much , he begin to think what he have well do .
At length he make up his mind to go to the caste and take away as much money with him as would enable him to live in comfort for the rest of his life .
This be decide , he spring up , and set out along the path which lead to the castle .
As before , the door stand open , and he go on till he have reach the hall of gold , and there he take off his jacket and tie the sleeve together so that it might make a kind of bag .
He then begin to pour in the gold by handful , when , all at once , a noise like thunder shake the castle .
This be follow by a voice , hoarse a that of a bull , which cry : ' I smell the smell of a man . '
And two giant enter .
` So , little worm !
it be you who steal our treasure ! '
exclaim the big .
` Well , we have get you now , and we will cook you for supper ! '
But here the other giant draw him aside , and for a moment or two they whisper together .
At length the first giant spoke : ` To please my friend I will spare your life on condition that , for the future , you shall guard our treasure .
If you be hungry take this little table and rap on it , say , a you do so : `` The dinner of an emperor ! ''
and you will get as much food a you want . '
With a light heart Jack promise all that be ask of him , and for some day enjoy himself mightily .
He have everything he could wish for , and do nothing from morning till night ; but by-and-by he begin to get very tired of it all .
` Let the giant guard their treasure themselves , ' he say to himself at last ; ' I be go away .
But I will leave all the gold and silver behind me , and will take nought but you , my good little table . '
So , tuck the table under his arm , he start off for the forest , but he do not linger there long , and soon find himself in the field on the other side .
There he saw an old man , who beg Jack to give him something to eat .
` You could not have ask a good person , ' answer Jack cheerfully .
And sign to him to sit down with him under a tree , he set the table in front of them , and strike it three time , cry : ` The dinner of an emperor ! '
He have hardly utter the word when fish and meat of all kind appear on it !
` That be a clever trick of yours , ' say the old man , when he have eat as much a he want .
` Give it to me in exchange for a treasure I have which be still well .
Do you see this cornet ?
Well , you have only to tell it that you wish for an army , and you will have as many soldier a you require . '
Now , since he have be leave to himself , Jack have grow ambitious , so , after a moment 's hesitation , he take the cornet and give the table in exchange .
The old man bid him farewell , and set off down one path , while Jack choose another , and for a long time he be quite pleased with his new possession .
Then , a he felt hungry , he wish for his table back again , a no house be in sight , and he want some supper badly .
All at once he remember his cornet , and a wicked thought enter his mind .
` Two hundred hussar , forward ! '
cry he .
And the neighing of horse and the clanking of sword be hear close at hand .
The officer who ride at their head approach Jack , and politely inquire what he wish them to do . '
A mile or two along that road , ' answer Jack , ` you will find an old man carry a table .
Take the table from him and bring it to me . '
The officer salute and go back to his men , who start at a gallop to do Jack 's bidding .
In ten minute they have return , bear the table with them .
` That be all , thank you , ' say Jack ; and the soldier disappear inside the cornet .
Oh , what a good supper Jack have that night , quite forget that he owe it to a mean trick .
The next day he breakfast early , and then walk on towards the near town .
On the way thither he meet another old man , who beg for something to eat .
` Certainly , you shall have something to eat , ' reply Jack .
And , place the table on the ground he cry : ` The dinner of an emperor ! '
when all sort of food dish appear .
At first the old man ate quite greedily , and say nothing ; but , after his hunger be satisfied , he turn to Jack and say : ` That be a very clever trick of yours .
Give the table to me and you shall have something still well . ' '
I do n't believe that there be anything well , ' answer Jack .
` Yes , there be .
Here be my bag ; it will give you a many castle a you can possibly want . '
Jack thought for a moment ; then he reply : ` Very well , I will exchange with you . '
And pass the table to the old man , he hang the bag over his arm .
Five minute later he summon five hundred lancer out of the cornet and bid them go after the old man and fetch back the table .
Now that by his cunning he have obtain possession of the three magic object , he resolve to return to his native place .
Smearing his face with dirt , and tear his clothes so a to look like a beggar , he stop the passer by and , on pretence of seek money or food , he question them about the village gossip .
In this manner he learn that his brother have become great men , much respect in all the country round .
When he hear that , he lose no time in go to the door of their fine house and implore them to give him food and shelter ; but the only thing he get be hard word , and a command to beg elsewhere .
At length , however , at their mother 's entreaty , he be tell that he might pass the night in the stable .
Here he wait until everybody in the house be sound asleep , when he draw his bag from under his cloak , and desire that a castle might appear in that place ; and the cornet give him soldier to guard the castle , while the table furnish him with a good supper .
In the morning , he cause it all to vanish , and when his brother enter the stable they find him lie on the straw .
Jack remain here for many day , do nothing , and -- as far a anybody know -- eat nothing .
This conduct puzzle his brother greatly , and they put such constant question to him , that at length he tell them the secret of the table , and even give a dinner to them , which far outdo any they have ever see or hear of .
But though they have solemnly promise to reveal nothing , somehow or other the tale leak out , and before long reach the ear of the king himself .
That very even his chamberlain arrive at Jack 's dwelling , with a request from the king that he might borrow the table for three day .
` Very well , ' answer Jack , ` you can take it back with you .
But tell his majesty that if he do not return it at the end of the three day I will make war upon him . '
So the chamberlain carry away the table and take it straight to the king , tell him at the same time of Jack 's threat , at which they both laugh till their side ache .
Now the king be so delighted with the table , and the dinner it give him , that when the three day be over he could not make up his mind to part with it .
Instead , he send for his carpenter , and bid him copy it exactly , and when it be do he tell his chamberlain to return it to Jack with his best thanks .
It happen to be dinner time , and Jack invite the chamberlain , who know nothing of the trick , to stay and dine with him .
The good man , who have eat several excellent meal provide by the table in the last three day , accept the invitation with pleasure , even though he be to dine in a stable , and sit down on the straw beside Jack .
` The dinner of an emperor ! '
cry Jack .
But not even a morsel of cheese make it appearance .
` The dinner of an emperor ! '
shout Jack in a voice of thunder .
Then the truth dawn on him ; and , crush the table between his hand , he turn to the chamberlain , who , bewilder and half-frightened , be wonder how to get away .
` Tell your false king that to-morrow I will destroy his castle as easily a I have break this table . '
The chamberlain hasten back to the palace , and give the king Jack 's message , at which he laugh more than before , and call all his courtier to hear the story .
But they be not quite so merry when they wake next morning and beheld ten thousand horseman , and a many archer , surround the palace .
The king saw it be useless to hold out , and he take the white flag of truce in one hand , and the real table in the other , and set out to look for Jack . '
I commit a crime , ' say he ; ` but I will do my best to make up for it .
Here be your table , which I own with shame that I try to steal , and you shall have besides , my daughter a your wife ! '
There be no need to delay the marriage when the table be able to furnish the most splendid banquet that ever be see , and after everyone have eat and drink as much a they want , Jack take his bag and command a castle fill with all sort of treasure to arise in the park for himself and his bride .
At this proof of his power the king 's heart die within him .
` Your magic be great than mine , ' he say ; ` and you be young and strong , while I be old and tired .
Take , therefore , the sceptre from my hand , and my crown from my head , and rule my people good than I have do . '
So at last Jack 's ambition be satisfy .
He could not hope to be more than king , and as long a he have his cornet to provide him with soldier he be secure against his enemy .
He never forgive his brother for the way they have treat him , though he present his mother with a beautiful castle , and everything she could possibly wish for .
In the centre of his own palace be a treasure chamber , and in this chamber the table , the cornet , and the bag be keep a the most prized of all his possession , and not a week pass without a visit from king John to make sure they be safe .
He reign long and well , and die a very old man , beloved by his people .
But his good example be not follow by his son and his grandson .
They grow so proud that they be ashamed to think that the founder of their race have once be a poor boy ; and a they and all the world could not fail to remember it , as long a the table , the cornet , and the bag be show in the treasure chamber , one king , more foolish than the rest , thrust them into a dark and damp cellar .
For some time the kingdom remain , though it become weak and weak every year that pass .
Then , one day , a rumour reach the king that a large army be march against him .
Vaguely he recollect some tale he have hear about a magic cornet which could provide a many soldier a would serve to conquer the earth , and which have be remove by his grandfather to a cellar .
Thither he hasten that he might renew his power once more , and in that black and slimy spot he find the treasure indeed .
But the table fell to piece a he touch it , in the cornet there remain only a few fragment of leathern belt which the rat have gnaw , and in the bag nothing but broken bit of stone .
And the king bow his head to the doom that await him , and in his heart curse the ruin wrought by the pride and foolishness of himself and his forefather .
The Rover of the Plain -LSB- From Contes Populaires Slaves , par Louis Leger . -RSB-
A long way off , near the sea coast of the east of Africa , there dwelt , once upon a time , a man and his wife .
They have two child , a son and a daughter , whom they love very much , and , like parent in other country , they often talk of the fine marriages the young people would make some day .
Out there both boy and girl marry early , and very soon , it seem to the mother , a message be send by a rich man on the other side of the great hill offer a fat herd of ox in exchange for the girl .
Everyone in the house and in the village rejoice , and the maiden be despatch to her new home .
When all be quiet again the father say to his son : ` Now that we own such a splendid troop of ox you have well hasten and get yourself a wife , l some illness should overtake them .
Already we have see in the village round about one or two damsel whose parent would gladly part with them for less than half the herd .
Therefore tell u which you like best , and we will buy her for you . '
But the son answer : ` Not so ; the maiden I have see do not please me .
If , indeed , I must marry , let me travel and find a wife for myself . '
` It shall be a you wish , ' say the parent ; ` but if by-and-by trouble should come of it , it will be your fault and not ours . '
The youth , however , would not listen ; and bid his father and mother farewell , set out on his search .
Far , far away he wander , over mountain and across river , till he reach a village where the people be quite different from those of his own race .
He glance about him and notice that the girl be fair to look upon , a they pound maize or stew something that smelt very nice in earthen pot -- especially if you be hot and tire ; and when one of the maiden turn round and offer the stranger some dinner , he make up his mind that he would wed her and nobody else .
So he send a message to her parent ask their leave to take her for his wife , and they come next day to bring their answer .
` We will give you our daughter , ' say they , ` if you can pay a good price for her .
Never be there so hardworking a girl ; and how we shall do without her we can not tell !
Still -- no doubt your father and mother will come themselves and bring the price ? '
` No ; I have the price with me , ' reply the young man ; lay down a handful of gold piece .
` Here it be -- take it . '
The old couple 's eye glitter greedily ; but custom forbid them to touch the price before all be arrange .
` At least , ' say they , after a moment 's pause , ` we may expect them to fetch your wife to her new home ? '
` No ; they be not use to travel , ' answer the bridegroom .
` Let the ceremony be perform without delay , and we will set forth at once .
It be a long journey . '
Then the parent call in the girl , who be lie in the sun outside the hut , and , in the presence of all the village , a goat be kill , the sacred dance take place , and a blessing be say over the head of the young people .
After that the bride be lead aside by her father , whose duty it be to bestow on her some part advice a to her conduct in her married life .
` Be good to your husband 's parent , ' add he , ` and always do the will of your husband . '
And the girl nod her head obediently .
Next it be the mother 's turn ; and , a be the custom of the tribe , she speak to her daughter : ` Will you choose which of your sister shall go with you to cut your wood and carry your water ? ' '
I do not want any of them , ' answer she ; ` they be no use .
They will drop the wood and spill the water . '
` Then will you have any of the other child ?
There be enough to spare , ' ask the mother again .
But the bride say quickly : ' I will have none of them !
You must give me our buffalo , the Rover of the Plain ; he alone shall serve me . '
` What folly you talk ! '
cry the parent .
` Give you our buffalo , the Rover of the Plain ?
Why , you know that our life depend on him .
Here he be well feed and lie on soft grass ; but how can you tell what will befall him in another country ?
The food may be bad , he will die of hunger ; and , if he die we die also . '
` No , no , ' say the bride ; ' I can look after him as well a you .
Get him ready , for the sun be sink and it be time we set forth . '
So she go away and put together a small pot fill with healing herm , a horn that she use in tend sick people , a little knife , and a calabash contain deer fat ; and , hide these about her , she take leave of her father and mother and start across the mountain by the side of her husband .
But the young man do not see the buffalo that follow them , which have leave his home to be the servant of his wife .
No one ever know how the news spread to the kraal that the young man be come back , bring a wife with him ; but , somehow or other , when the two enter the village , every man and woman be stand in the road utter shout of welcome .
` Ah , you be not dead after all , ' cry they ; ` and have find a wife to your liking , though you would have none of our girl .
Well , well , you have choose your own path ; and if ill come of it beware lest you grumble . '
Next day the husband take his wife to the field and show her which be his , and which belong to his mother .
The girl listen carefully to all he tell her , and walk with him back to the hut ; but close to the door she stop , and say : ' I have drop my necklace of bead in the field , and I must go and look for it . '
But in truth she have do nothing of the sort , and it be only an excuse to go and seek the buffalo .
The beast be crouch under a tree when she come up , and snort with pleasure at the sight of her .
` You can roam about this field , and this , and this , ' she say , ` for they belong to my husband ; and that be his wood , where you may hide yourself .
But the other field be his mother 's , so beware l you touch them . ' '
I will beware , ' answer the buffalo ; and , pat his head , the girl leave him .
Oh , how much well a servant he be than any of the little girl the bride have refuse to bring with her !
If she want water , she have only to cross the patch of maize behind the hut and seek out the place where the buffalo lay hide , and put down her pail beside him .
Then she would sit at her ease while he go to the lake and bring the bucket back brimming over .
If she want wood , he would break the branch off the tree and lay them at her foot .
And the villager watch her return laden , and say to each other : ` Surely the girl of her country be strong than our girl , for none of them could cut so quickly or carry so much ! '
But then , nobody know that she have a buffalo for a servant .
Only , all this time she never give the poor buffalo anything to eat , because she have just one dish , out of which she and her husband ate ; while in her old home there be a dish put aside expressly for the Rover of the Plain .
The buffalo bore it as long a he could ; but , one day , when his mistress bid him go to the lake and fetch water , his knee almost give way from hunger .
He keep silence , however , till the evening , when he say to his mistress : ' I be nearly starve ; I have not touch food since I come here .
I can work no more . '
` Alas ! '
answer she , ` what can I do ?
I have only one dish in the house .
You will have to steal some bean from the field .
Take a few here and a few there ; but be sure not to take too many from one place , or the owner may notice it . '
Now the buffalo have always live an honest life , but if his mistress do not fee him , he must get food for himself .
So that night , when all the village be asleep , he come out from the wood and eat a few bean here and a few there , a his mistress have bid him .
And when at last his hunger be satisfied , he creep back to his lair .
But a buffalo be not a fairy , and the next morning , when the woman arrive to work in the field , they stand still with astonishment , and say to each other : ` Just look at this ; a savage beast have be destroy our crop , and we can see the trace of his foot ! '
And they hurry to their home to tell their tale .
In the even the girl creep out to the buffalo 's hiding-place , and say to him : ` They perceive what happen , of course ; so to-night you have good seek your supper far off . '
And the buffalo nod his head and follow her counsel ; but in the morning , when these woman also go out to work , the race of hoof be plainly to be see , and they hasten to tell their husband , and beg them to bring their gun , and to watch for the robber .
It happen that the stranger girl 's husband be the best marksman in all the village , and he hide himself behind the trunk of a tree and wait .
The buffalo , think that they would probably make a search for him in the field he have lay waste the evening before , return to the bean patch belonging to his mistress .
The young man saw him come with amazement .
` Why , it be a buffalo ! '
cry he ; ' I never have behold one in this country before ! '
And raise his gun , he aim just behind the ear .
The buffalo give a leap into the air , and then fell dead .
` It be a good shot , ' say the young man .
And he run to the village to tell them that the thief be punish .
When he enter his hut he find his wife , who have somehow hear the news , twist herself to and fro and shed tear .
` Are you ill ? '
ask he .
And she answer : ` Yes ; I have pain all over my body . '
But she be not ill at all , only very unhappy at the death of the buffalo which have serve her so well .
Her husband felt anxious , and send for the medicine man ; but though she pretend to listen to him , she throw all his medicine out of the door directly he have go away .
With the first ray of light the whole village be awake , and the woman set forth arm with basket and the men with knife in order to cut up the buffalo .
Only the girl remain in her hut ; and after a while she too go to join them , groan and weep a she walk along .
` What be you do here ? '
ask her husband when he saw her .
` If you be ill you be good at home . '
` Oh !
I could not stay alone in the village , ' say she .
And her mother-in-law leave off her work to come and scold her , and to tell her that she would kill herself if she do such foolish thing .
But the girl would not listen and sit down and look on .
When they have divide the buffalo 's flesh , and each woman have the family portion in her basket , the stranger wife get up and say : ` Let me have the head . '
` You could never carry anything so heavy , ' answer the men , ` and now you be ill besides . '
` You do not know how strong I be , ' answer she .
And at last they give it her .
She do not walk to the village with the others , but linger behind , and , instead of enter her hut , she slip into the little shed where the pot for cooking and store maize be keep .
Then she lay down the buffalo 's head and sit beside it .
Her husband come to seek her , and beg her to leave the shed and go to bed , a she must be tire out ; but the girl would not stir , neither would she attend to the word of her mother-in-law . '
I wish you would leave me alone ! '
she answer crossly .
` It be impossible to sleep if somebody be always come in . '
And she turn her back on them , and would not even eat the food they have bring .
So they go away , and the young man soon stretch himself out on his mat ; but his wife 's odd conduct make him anxious , and he lay wake all night , listening .
When all be still the girl make a fire and boil some water in a pot .
As soon a it be quite hot she shake in the medicine that she have bring from home , and then , take the buffalo 's head , she make incision with her little knife behind the ear , and close to the temple where the shot have strike him .
Next she apply the horn to the spot and blew with all her force till , at length , the blood begin to move .
After that she spread some of the deer fat out of the calabash over the wound , which she hold in the steam of the hot water .
Last of all , she sing in a low voice a dirge over the Rover of the Plain .
As she chant the final word the head move , and the limb come back .
The buffalo begin to feel alive again and shake his horn , and stand up and stretch himself .
Unluckily it be just at this moment that the husband say to himself : ' I wonder if she be cry still , and what be the matter with her !
Perhaps I have well go and see . '
And he get up and , call her by name , go out to the shed .
` Go away !
I do n't want you ! '
she cry angrily .
But it be too late .
The buffalo have fall to the ground , dead , and with the wound in his head a before .
The young man who , unlike most of his tribe , be afraid of his wife , return to his bed without have see anything , but wonder very much what she could be do all this time .
After wait a few minute , she begin her task over again , and at the end the buffalo stand on his foot a before .
But just a the girl be rejoice that her work be complete , in come the husband once more to see what his wife be do ; and this time he sit himself down in the hut , and say that he wish to watch whatever be go on .
Then the girl take up the pitcher and all her other thing and leave the shed , try for the third time to bring the buffalo back to life .
She be too late ; the dawn be already break , and the head fell to the ground , dead and corrupt a it be before .
The girl enter the hut , where her husband and his mother be get ready to go out . '
I want to go down to the lake , and bathe , ' say she .
` But you could never walk so far , ' answer they .
` You be so tired , a it be , that you can hardly stand ! '
However , in spite of their warning , the girl leave the hut in the direction of the lake .
Very soon she come back weep , and sob out : ' I meet some one in the village who live in my country , and he tell me that my mother be very , very ill , and if I do not go to her at once she will be dead before I arrive .
I will return as soon a I can , and now farewell . '
And she set forth in the direction of the mountain .
But this story be not true ; she know nothing about her mother , only she want an excuse to go home and tell her family that their prophecy have come true , and that the buffalo be dead .
Balancing her basket on her head , she walk along , and directly she have leave the village behind her she break out into the song of the Rover of the Plain , and at last , at the end of the day , she come to the group of hut where her parent live .
Her friend all run to meet her , and , weep , she tell them that the buffalo be dead .
This sad news spread like lightning through the country , and the people flock from far and near to bewail the loss of the beast who have be their pride .
` If you have only listen to u , ' they cry , ` he would be alive now .
But you refuse all the little girl we offer you , and would have nothing but the buffalo .
And remember what the medicine-man say : `` If the buffalo die you die also ! '' '
So they bewail their fate , one to the other , and for a while they do not perceive that the girl 's husband be sit in their midst , lean his gun against a tree .
Then one man , turn , behold him , and bow mockingly .
` Hail , murderer !
hail !
you have slay u all ! '
The young man star , not know what he mean , and answer , wonderingly : ' I shoot a buffalo ; be that why you call me a murderer ? ' '
A buffalo -- yes ; but the servant of your wife !
It be he who carry the wood and draw the water .
Did you not know it ? '
` No ; I do not know it , ' reply the husband in surprise .
` Why do no one tell me ?
Of course I should not have shoot him ! '
` Well , he be dead , ' answer they , ` and we must die too . '
At this the girl take a cup in which some poisonous herb have be crush , and hold it in her hand , she wail : ' O my father , Rover of the Plain ! '
Then drink a deep draught from it , fell back dead .
One by one her parent , her brother and her sister , drank also and die , sing a dirge to the memory of the buffalo .
The girl 's husband look on with horror ; and return sadly home across the mountain , and , enter his hut , throw himself on the ground .
At first he be too tired to speak ; but at length he raise his head and tell all the story to his father and mother , who sit watch him .
When he have finish they shake their head and say : ` Now you see that we speak no idle word when we tell you that ill would come of your marriage !
We offer you a good and hard-working wife , and you would have none of her .
And it be not only your wife you have lose , but your fortune also .
For who will give you back your money if they be all dead ? '
` It be true , O my father , ' answer the young man .
But in his heart he think more of the loss of his wife than of the money he have give for her .
The White Doe -LSB- From L'Etude Ethnographique sur les Baronga , par Henri Junod . -RSB-
Once upon a time there live a king and queen who love each other dearly , and would have be perfectly happy if they have only have a little son or daughter to play with .
They never talk about it , and always pretend that there be nothing in the world to wish for ; but , sometimes when they look at other people 's child , their face grow sad , and their courtier and attendant know the reason why .
One day the queen be sit alone by the side of a waterfall which sprung from some rock in the large park adjoin the castle .
She be feel more than usually miserable , and have send away her lady so that no one might witness her grief .
Suddenly she hear a rustle movement in the pool below the waterfall , and , on glance up , she saw a large crab climb on to a stone beside her .
` Great queen , ' say the crab , ' I be here to tell you that the desire of your heart will soon be grant .
But first you must permit me to lead you to the palace of the fairy , which , though hard by , have never be see by mortal eye because of the thick cloud that surround it .
When there you will know more ; that be , if you will trust yourself to me . '
The queen have never before hear an animal speak , and be strike dumb with surprise .
However , she be so enchant at the word of the crab that she smile sweetly and hold out her hand ; it be take , not by the crab , which have stood there only a moment before , but by a little old woman smartly dress in white and crimson with green ribbon in her grey hair .
And , wonderful to say , not a drop of water fell from her clothes .
The old woman run lightly down a path along which the queen have be a hundred time before , but it seem so different she could hardly believe it be the same .
Instead of have to push her way through nettle and bramble , rose and jasmine hung about her head , while under her foot the ground be sweet with violet .
The orange tree be so tall and thick that , even at mid-day , the sun be never too hot , and at the end of the path be a glimmer of something so dazzling that the queen have to shade her eye , and peep at it only between her finger .
` What can it be ? '
she ask , turn to her guide ; who answer : ` Oh , that be the fairy ' palace , and here be some of them come to meet u . '
As she speak the gate swing back and six fairy approach , each bearing in her hand a flower make of precious stone , but so like a real one that it be only by touch you could tell the difference .
` Madam , ' they say , ` we know not how to thank you for this mark of your confidence , but have the happiness to tell you that in a short time you will have a little daughter . '
The queen be so enchant at this news that she nearly faint with joy ; but when she be able to speak , she pour out all her gratitude to the fairy for their promised gift .
` And now , ' she say , ' I ought not to stay any long , for my husband will think that I have run away , or that some evil beast have devour me . '
In a little while it happen just a the fairy have foretell , and a baby girl be bear in the palace .
Of course both the king and queen be delight , and the child be call Desiree , which mean ` desire , ' for she have be ` desire ' for five year before her birth .
At first the queen could think of nothing but her new plaything , but then she remember the fairy who have send it to her .
Bidding her lady bring her the posy of jewelled flower which have be give her at the palace , she take each flower in her hand and call it by name , and , in turn , each fairy appear before her .
But , a unluckily often happen , the one to whom she owe the most , the crab-fairy , be forget , and by this , a in the case of other baby you have read about , much mischief be work .
However , for the moment all be gaiety in the palace , and everybody inside run to the window to watch the fairy ' carriage , for no two be alike .
One have a car of ebony , draw by white pigeon , another be lie back in her ivory chariot , drive ten black crow , while the rest have choose rare wood or many-coloured sea-shells , with scarlet and blue macaw , long-tailed peacock , or green love-birds for horse .
These carriage be only use on occasion of state , for when they go to war fly dragon , fiery serpent , lion or leopard , take the place of the beautiful bird .
The fairy enter the queen 's chamber follow by little dwarf who carry their present and look much proud than their mistress .
One by one their burden be spread upon the ground , and no one have ever see such lovely thing .
Everything that a baby could possibly wear or play with be there , and besides , they have other and more precious gift to give her , which only child who have fairy for godmother can ever hope to possess .
They be all gather round the heap of pink cushion on which the baby lay asleep , when a shadow seem to fall between them and the sun , while a cold wind blow through the room .
Everybody look up , and there be the crab-fairy , who have grow as tall a the ceiling in her anger .
` So I be forgotten ! '
cry she , in a voice so loud that the queen tremble a she hear it .
` Who be it soothe you in your trouble ?
Who be it lead you to the fairy ?
Who be it bring you back in safety to your home again ?
Yet I -- I -- be overlook , while these who have do nothing in comparison , be pet and thank . '
The queen , almost dumb with terror , in vain try to think of some explanation or apology ; but there be none , and she could only confess her fault and implore forgiveness .
The fairy also do their best to soften the wrath of their sister , and know that , like many plain people who be not fairy , she be very vain , they entreat her to drop her crab 's disguise , and to become once more the charm person they be accustom to see .
For some time the enraged fairy would listen to nothing ; but at length the flattery begin to take effect .
The crab 's shell fell from her , she shrink into her usual size , and lose some of her fierce expression .
` Well , ' she say , ' I will not cause the princess 's death , a I have mean to do , but at the same time she will have to bear the punishment of her mother 's fault , a many other child have do before her .
The sentence I pass upon her be , that if she be allow to see one ray of daylight before her fifteenth birthday she will rue it bitterly , and it may perhaps cost her her life . '
And with these word she vanish by the window through which she come , while the fairy comfort the weep queen and take counsel how best the princess might be keep safe during her childhood .
At the end of half an hour they have make up their mind what to do , and at the command of the fairy , a beautiful palace spring up , close to that of the king and queen , but different from every palace in the world in have no window , and only a door right under the earth .
However , once within , daylight be hardly miss , so brilliant be the multitude of taper that be burn on the wall .
Now up to this time the princess 's history have be like the history of many a princess that you have read about ; but , when the period of her imprisonment be nearly over , her fortune take another turn .
For almost fifteen year the fairy have take care of her , and amuse her and teach her , so that when she come into the world she might be no whit behind the daughter of other king in all that make a princess charming and accomplish .
They all love her dearly , but the fairy Tulip love her most of all ; and a the princess 's fifteenth birthday draw near , the fairy begin to tremble l something terrible should happen -- some accident which have not be foreseen .
` Do not let her out of your sight , ' say Tulip to the queen , ` and meanwhile , let her portrait be paint and carry to the neighbouring Courts , a be the custom in order that the king may see how far her beauty exceed that of every other princess , and that they may demand her in marriage for their son . '
And so it be do ; and a the fairy have prophesy , all the young prince fell in love with the picture ; but the last one to whom it be show could think of nothing else , and refuse to let it be remove from his chamber , where he spend whole day gaze at it .
The king his father be much surprise at the change which have come over his son , who generally pass all his time in hunt or hawking , and his anxiety be increase by a conversation he overheard between two of his courtier that they fear the prince must be go out of his mind , so moody have he become .
Without lose a moment the king go to visit his son , and no sooner have he enter the room than the young man fling himself at his father 's foot .
` You have betroth me already to a bride I can never love ! '
cry he ; ` but if you will not consent to break off the match , and ask for the hand of the princess Desiree , I shall die of misery , thankful to be alive no longer . '
These word much displease the king , who felt that , in break off the marriage already arrange he would almost certainly be bring on his subject a long and bloody war ; so , without answer , he turn away , hop that a few day might bring his son to reason .
But the prince 's condition grow rapidly so much bad that the king , in despair , promise to send an embassy at once to Desiree 's father .
This news cure the young man in an instant of all his ill ; and he begin to plan out every detail of dress and of horse and carriage which be necessary to make the train of the envoy , whose name be Becasigue , as splendid a possible .
He long to form part of the embassy himself , if only in the disguise of a page ; but this the king would not allow , and so the prince have to content himself with search the kingdom for everything that be rare and beautiful to send to the princess .
Indeed , he arrive , just a the embassy be start , with his portrait , which have be paint in secret by the court painter .
The king and queen wish for nothing well than that their daughter marry into such a great and powerful family , and receive the ambassador with every sign of welcome .
They even wish him to see the princess Desiree , but this be prevent by the fairy Tulip , who fear some ill might come of it .
` And be sure you tell him , ' add she , ` that the marriage can not be celebrate till she be fifteen year old , or else some terrible misfortune will happen to the child . '
So when Becasigue , surround by his train , make a formal request that the princess Desiree might be give in marriage to his master 's son , the king reply that he be much honour , and would gladly give his consent ; but that no one could even see the princess till her fifteenth birthday , a the spell lay upon her in her cradle by a spiteful fairy , would not cease to work till that be past .
The ambassador be greatly surprised and disappointed , but he know too much about fairy to venture to disobey them , therefore he have to content himself with present the prince 's portrait to the queen , who lose no time in carry it to the princess .
As the girl take it in her hand it suddenly speak , a it have be teach to do , and utter a compliment of the most delicate and charm sort , which make the princess flush with pleasure .
` How would you like to have a husband like that ? '
ask the queen , laugh .
` As if I know anything about husband ! '
replied Desiree , who have long ago guess the business of the ambassador .
` Well , he will be your husband in three month , ' answer the queen , order the prince 's present to be bring in .
The princess be very pleased with them , and admire them greatly , but the queen notice that all the while her eye constantly stray from the soft silk and most brilliant jewel to the portrait of the prince .
The ambassador , find that there be no hope of his be allow to see the princess , take his leave , and return to his own court ; but here a new difficulty appear .
The prince , though transport with joy at the thought that Desiree be indeed to be his bride , be bitterly disappointed that she have not be allow to return with Becasigue , a he have foolishly expect ; and never have be teach to deny himself anything or to control his feeling , he fell as ill a he have do before .
He would eat nothing nor take pleasure in anything , but lay all day on a heap of cushion , gaze at the picture of the princess .
` If I have to wait three month before I can marry the princess I shall die ! '
be all this spoilt boy would say ; and at length the king , in despair , resolve to send a fresh embassy to Desiree 's father to implore him to permit the marriage to be celebrate at once . '
I would have present my prayer in person , he add in his letter , ` but my great age and infirmity do not suffer me to travel ; however my envoy have order to agree to any arrangement that you may propose . '
On his arrival at the palace Becasigue plead his young master 's cause as fervently a the king his father could have do , and entreat that the princess might be consult in the matter .
The queen hasten to the marble tower , and tell her daughter of the sad state of the prince .
Des the prince without risk the doom pronounce over her by the wicked fairy . '
I see ! '
she exclaim joyfully at last .
` Let a carriage be build through which no light can come , and let it be bring into my room .
I will then get into it , and we can travel swiftly during the night and arrive before dawn at the palace of the prince .
Once there , I can remain in some underground chamber , where no light can come . '
` Ah , how clever you be , ' cry the queen , clasp her in her arm .
And she hurry away to tell the king .
` What a wife our prince will have ! '
say Becasigue bow low ; ` but I must hasten back with the tidings , and to prepare the underground chamber for the princess . '
And so he take his leave .
In a few day the carriage command by the princess be ready .
It be of green velvet , scatter over with large golden thistle , and line inside with silver brocade embroider with pink rose .
It have no window , of course ; but the fairy Tulip , whose counsel have be ask , have manage to light it up with a soft glow that come no one know whither .
It be carry straight up into the great hall of the tower , and the princess step into it , follow by her faithful maid of honour , Eglantine , and by her lady in wait Cerisette , who also have fall in love with the prince 's portrait and be bitterly jealous of her mistress .
The fourth place in the carriage be fill by Cerisette 's mother , who have be send by the queen to look after the three young people .
Now the Fairy of the Fountain be the godmother of the princess Nera , to whom the prince have be betroth before the picture of Desiree have make him faithless .
She be very angry at the slight put upon her godchild , and from that moment keep careful watch on the princess .
In this journey she saw her chance , and it be she who , invisible , sat by Cerisette , and put bad thought into the mind of both her and her mother .
The way to the city where the prince live ran for the most part through a thick forest , and every night when there be no moon , and not a single star could be see through the tree , the guard who travel with the princess open the carriage to give it an airing .
This go on for several day , till only twelve hour journey lay between them and the palace .
The Cerisette persuade her mother to cut a great hole in the side of the carriage with a sharp knife which she herself have bring for the purpose .
In the forest the darkness be so intense that no one perceive what she have do , but when they leave the last tree behind them , and emerge into the open country , the sun be up , and for the first time since her babyhood , Desiree find herself in the light of day .
She look up in surprise at the dazzle brilliance that stream through the hole ; then give a sigh which seem to come from her heart .
The carriage door swung back , a if by magic , and a white doe sprang out , and in a moment be lose to sight in the forest .
But , quick a she be , Eglantine , her maid of honour , have time to see where she go , and jump from the carriage in pursuit of her , follow at a distance by the guard .
Cerisette and her mother look at each other in surprise and joy .
They could hardly believe in their good fortune , for everything have happen exactly a they wish .
The first thing to be do be to conceal the hole which have be cut , and when this be manage -LRB- with the help of the angry fairy , though they do not know it -RRB- , Cerisette hasten to take off her own clothes , and put on those of the princess , place the crown of diamond on her head .
She find this heavy than she expect ; but then , she have never be accustom to wear crown , which make all the difference .
At the gate of the city the carriage be stop by a guard of honour send by the king a an escort to his son 's bride .
Though Cerisette and her mother could of course see nothing of what be go on outside , they hear plainly the shout of welcome from the crowd along the street .
The carriage stop at length in the vast hall which Becasigue have prepare for the reception of the princess .
The grand chamberlain and the lord high steward be await her , and when the false bride step into the brilliantly light room , they bow low , and say they have order to inform his highness the moment she arrive .
The prince , whom the strict etiquette of the court have prevent from be present in the underground hall , be burn with impatience in his own apartment .
` So she have come ! '
cry he , throw down the bow he have be pretend to mend .
` Well , be I not right ?
Is she not a miracle of beauty and grace ?
And have she her equal in the whole world ? '
The minister look at each other , and make no reply ; till at length the chamberlain , who be the bolder of the two , observe : ` My lord , a to her beauty , you can judge of that for yourself .
No doubt it be as great a you say ; but at present it seem to have suffer , a be natural , from the fatigue of the journey . '
This be certainly not what the prince have expect to hear .
Could the portrait have flatter her ?
He have know of such thing before , and a cold shiver run through him ; but with an effort he keep silent from further questioning , and only say : ` Has the king be tell that the princess be in the palace ? '
` Yes , highness ; and he have probably already join her . '
` Then I will go too , ' say the prince .
Weak a he be from his long illness , the prince descend the staircase , support by the minister , and enter the room just in time to hear his father 's loud cry of astonishment and disgust at the sight of Cerisette .
` There be be treachery at work , ' he exclaim , while the prince leant , dumb with horror , against the doorpost .
But the lady in wait , who have be prepare for something of the sort , advance , hold in her hand the letter which the king and queen have entrust to her .
` This be the princess Desiree , ' say she , pretend to have hear nothing , ` and I have the honour to present to you these letter from my liege lord and lady , together with the casket contain the princess ' jewel . '
The king do not move or answer her ; so the prince , lean on the arm of Becasigue , approach a little close to the false princess , hop against hope that his eye have deceive him .
But the longer he look the more he agree with his father that there be treason somewhere , for in no single respect do the portrait resemble the woman before him .
Cerisette be so tall that the dress of the princess do not reach her ankle , and so thin that her bone show through the stuff .
Besides that her nose be hook , and her teeth black and ugly .
In his turn , the prince stand root to the spot .
At last he speak , and his word be address to his father , and not to the bride who have come so far to marry him .
` We have be deceive , ' he say , ` and it will cost me my life . '
And he lean so heavily on the envoy that Becasigue fear he be go to faint , and hastily lay him on the floor .
For some minute no one could attend to anybody but the prince ; but as soon a he revive the lady in wait make herself heard .
` Oh , my lovely princess , why do we ever leave home ? '
cry she .
` But the king your father will avenge the insult that have be heap on you when we tell him how you have be treat . ' '
I will tell him myself , ' reply the king in wrath ; ` he promise me a wonder of beauty , he have send me a skeleton !
I be not surprised that he have keep her for fifteen year hide away from the eye of the world .
Take them both away , ' he continue , turn to his guard , ` and lodge them in the state prison .
There be something more I have to learn of this matter . '
His order be obey , and the prince , loudly bewail his sad fate , be lead back to bed , where for many day he lay in a high fever .
At length he slowly begin to gain strength , but his sorrow be still so great that he could not bear the sight of a strange face , and shudder at the notion of take his proper part in the court ceremony .
Unknown to the king , or to anybody but Becasigue , he plan that , as soon a he be able , he would make his escape and pass the rest of his life alone in some solitary place .
It be some week before he have regain his health sufficiently to carry out his design ; but finally , one beautiful starlight night , the two friend stole away , and when the king wake next morning he find a letter lying by his bed , say that his son have go , he know not whither .
He weep bitter tear at the news , for he love the prince dearly ; but he felt that perhaps the young man have do wisely , and he trust to time and Becasigue 's influence to bring the wanderer home .
And while these thing be happen , what have become of the white doe ?
Though when she spring from the carriage she be aware that some unkind fate have change her into an animal , yet , till she saw herself in a stream , she have no idea what it be .
` Is it really , I , Desiree ? '
she say to herself , weep .
` What wicked fairy can have treat me so ; and shall I never , never take my own shape again ?
My only comfort that , in this great forest , full of lion and serpent , my life will be a short one . '
Now the fairy Tulip be as much grieve at the sad fate of the princess a Desiree 's own mother could have be if she have know of it .
Still , she could not help feeling that if the king and queen have listen to her advice the girl would by this time be safely in the wall of her new home .
However , she love Desiree too much to let her suffer more than could be help , and it be she who guide Eglantine to the place where the white doe be stand , crop the grass which be her dinner .
At the sound of footstep the pretty creature lift her head , and when she saw her faithful companion approach she bound towards her , and rub her head on Eglantine 's shoulder .
The maid of honour be surprise ; but she be fond of animal , and stroke the white doe tenderly , speak gently to her all the while .
Suddenly the beautiful creature lift her head , and look up into Eglantine 's face , with tear stream from her eye .
A thought flash through her mind , and quick a lightning the girl flung herself on her knee , and lift the animal 's foot kiss them one by one .
` My princess !
O my dear princess ! '
cry she ; and again the white doe rub her head against her , for think the spiteful fairy have take away her power of speech , she have not deprive her of her reason !
All day long the two remain together , and when Eglantine grow hungry she be lead by the white doe to a part of the forest where pear and peach grow in abundance ; but , a night come on , the maid of honour be fill with the terror of wild beast which have beset the princess during her first night in the forest .
` Is there no hut or cave we could go into ? '
ask she .
But the doe only shake her head ; and the two sit down and weep with fright .
The fairy Tulip , who , in spite of her anger , be very soft-hearted , be touch at their distress , and fly quickly to their help . '
I can not take away the spell altogether , ' she say , ` for the Fairy of the Fountain be strong than I ; but I can shorten the time of your punishment , and be able to make it less hard , for as soon a darkness fall you shall resume your own shape . '
To think that by-and-by she would cease to be a white doe -- indeed , that she would at once cease to be one during the night -- be for the present joy enough for Desiree , and she skip about on the grass in the prettiest manner .
` Go straight down the path in front of you , ' continue the fairy , smile a she watch her ; ` go straight down the path and you will soon reach a little hut where you will find shelter . '
And with these word she vanish , leave her hearer happy than they ever think they could be again .
An old woman be stand at the door of the hut when Eglantine draw near , with the white doe trotting by her side .
` Good evening ! '
she say ; ` could you give me a night 's lodging for myself and my doe ? '
` Certainly I can , ' reply the old woman .
And she lead them into a room with two little white bed , so clean and comfortable that it make you sleepy even to look at them .
The door have hardly close behind the old woman when the sun sink below the horizon , and Desiree become a girl again .
` Oh , Eglantine !
what should I have do if you have not follow me , ' she cry .
And she fling herself into her friend 's arm in a transport of delight .
Early in the morning Eglantine be awaken by the sound of someone scratching at the door , and on open her eye she saw the white doe struggle to get out .
The little creature look up and into her face , and nod her head a the maid of honour unfasten the latch , but bound away into the wood , and be lose to sight in a moment .
Meanwhile , the prince and Becasigue be wander through the wood , till at last the prince grow so tired , that he lay down under a tree , and tell Becasigue that he have well go in search of food , and of some place where they could sleep .
Becasigue have not go very far , when a turn of the path bring him face to face with the old woman who be feed her dove before her cottage .
` Could you give me some milk and fruit ? '
ask he . '
I be very hungry myself , and , besides , I have leave a friend behind me who be still weak from illness . '
` Certainly I can , ' answer the old woman .
` But come and sit down in my kitchen while I catch the goat and milk it . '
Becasigue be glad enough to do a he be bid , and in a few minute the old woman return with a basket brimming over with orange and grape .
` If your friend have be ill he should not pass the night in the forest , ' say she . '
I have room in my hut -- tiny enough , it be true ; but good than nothing , and to that you be both heartily welcome . '
Becasigue thank her warmly , and a by this time it be almost sunset , he set out to fetch the prince .
It be while he be absent that Eglantine and the white doe enter the hut , and have , of course , no idea that in the very next room be the man whose childish impatience have be the cause of all their trouble .
In spite of his fatigue , the prince sleep badly , and directly it be light he rise , and bidding Becasigue remain where he be , a he wish to be alone , he stroll out into the forest .
He walk on slowly , just a his fancy lead him , till , suddenly , he come to a wide open space , and in the middle be the white doe quietly eat her breakfast .
She bound off at the sight of a man , but not before the prince , who have fasten on his bow without thinking , have let fly several arrow , which the fairy Tulip take care should do her no harm .
But , quickly a she run , she soon felt her strength fail her , for fifteen year of life in a tower have not teach her how to exercise her limb .
Luckily , the prince be too weak to follow her far , and a turn of a path bring her close to the hut , where Eglantine be await her .
Panting for breath , she enter their room , and fling herself down on the floor .
When it be dark again , and she be once more the princess Desiree , she tell Eglantine what have befall her . '
I fear the Fairy of the Fountain , and the cruel beast , ' say she ; ` but somehow I never think of the danger that I run from men .
I do not know now what save me . '
` You must stay quietly here till the time of your punishment be over , ' answered Eglantine .
But when the morning dawn , and the girl turn into a doe , the longing for the forest come over her , and she spring away a before .
As soon a the prince be awake he hasten to the place where , only the day before , he have find the white doe feeding ; but of course she have take care to go in the opposite direction .
Much disappointed , he try first one green path and then another , and at last , weary with walking , he throw himself down and go fast asleep .
Just at this moment the white doe spring out of a thicket near by , and start back trembling when she behold her enemy lie there .
Yet , instead of turn to fly , something bid her go and look at him unseen .
As she gaze a thrill run through her , for she felt that , worn and waste though he be by illness , it be the face of her destined husband .
Gently stoop over him she kiss his forehead , and at her touch he awake .
For a minute they look at each other , and to his amazement he recognize the white doe which have escape him the previous day .
But in an instant the animal be arouse to a sense of her danger , and she flee with all her strength into the thick part of the forest .
Quick a lightning the prince be on her track , but this time it be with no wish to kill or even wound the beautiful creature .
` Pretty doe !
pretty doe !
stop !
I wo n't hurt you , ' cry he , but his word be carry away by the wind .
At length the doe could run no more , and when the prince reach her , she be lie stretch out on the grass , wait for her death blow .
But instead the prince knelt at her side , and stroke her , and bid her fear nothing , a he would take care of her .
So he fetch a little water from the stream in his horn hunt cup , then , cut some branch from the tree , he twist them into a litter which he cover with moss , and lay the white doe gently on it .
For a long time they remain thus , but when Desiree saw by the way that the light strike the tree , that he sun must be near it setting , she be fill with alarm lest the darkness should fall , and the prince should behold her in her human shape .
` No , he must not see me for the first time here , ' she think , and instantly begin to plan how to get rid of him .
Then she open her mouth and let her tongue hang out , a if she be die of thirst , and the prince , a she expect , hasten to the stream to get her some more water .
When he return , the white doe be go .
That night Desiree confess to Eglantine that her pursuer be no other than the prince , and that far from flatter him , the portrait have never do him justice .
` Is it not hard to meet him in this shape , ' wept she , ` when we both love each other so much ? '
But Eglantine comfort her , and remind her that in a short time all would be well .
The prince be very angry at the flight of the white doe , for whom he have take so much trouble , and return to the cottage he pour out his adventure and his wrath to Becasigue , who could not help smile .
` She shall not escape me again , ' cry the prince .
` If I hunt her every day for a year , I will have her at last . '
And in this frame of mind he go to bed .
When the white doe enter the forest next morning , she have not make up her mind whether she would go and meet the prince , or whether she would shun him , and hide in thicket of which he know nothing .
She decide that the last plan be the best ; and so it would have be if the prince have not take the very same direction in search of her .
Quite by accident he catch sight of her white skin shin through the bush , and at the same instant she hear a twig snap under his foot .
In a moment she be up and away , but the prince , not know how else to capture her , aim an arrow at her leg , which bring her to the ground .
The young man felt like a murderer a he run hastily up to where the white doe lay , and do his best to soothe the pain she felt , which , in reality , be the last part of the punishment send by the Fairy of the Fountain .
First he bring her some water , and then he fetch some healing herb , and have crush them in his hand , lay them on the wound .
` Ah !
what a wretch I be to have hurt you , ' cry he , rest her head upon his knee ; ` and now you will hate me and fly from me for ever ! '
For some time the doe lay quietly where she be , but , a before , she remember that the hour of her transformation be near .
She struggle to her foot , but the prince would not hear of her walking , and think the old woman might be able to dress her wound well than he could , he take her in his arm to carry her back to the hut .
But , small a she be , she make herself so heavy that , after stagger a few step under her weight , he lay her down , and tie her fast to a tree with some of the ribbon of his hat .
This do he go away to get help .
Meanwhile Eglantine have grow very uneasy at the long absence of her mistress , and have come out to look for her .
Just a the prince pass out of sight the fluttering ribbon dance before her eye , and she descry her beautiful princess bound to a tree .
With all her might she work at the knot , but not a single one could she undo , though all appear so easy .
She be still busy with them when a voice behind her say : ` Pardon me , fair lady , but it be MY doe you be try to steal ! '
` Excuse me , good knight ' answered Eglantine , hardly glance at him , ` but it be MY doe that be tie up here !
And if you wish for a proof of it , you can see if she know me or not .
Touch my heart , my little one , ' she continue , drop on her knee .
And the doe lift up it fore-foot and lay it on her side .
` Now put your arm round my neck , and sigh . '
And again the doe do a she be bid .
` You be right , ' say the prince ; ` but it be with sorrow I give her up to you , for though I have wound her yet I love her deeply . '
To this Eglantine answer nothing ; but carefully raise up the doe , she lead her slowly to the hut .
Now both the prince and Becasigue be quite unaware that the old woman have any guest besides themselves , and , follow afar , be much surprise to behold Eglantine and her charge enter the cottage .
They lose no time in question the old woman , who reply that she know nothing about the lady and her white doe , who sleep next the chamber occupy by the prince and his friend , but that they be very quiet , and pay her well .
Then she go back to her kitchen .
` Do you know , ' say Becasigue , when they be alone , ' I be certain that the lady we saw be the maid of honour to the Princess Desiree , whom I meet at the palace .
And , a her room be next to this , it will be easy to make a small hole through which I can satisfy myself whether I be right or not . '
So , take a knife out of his pocket , he begin to saw away the woodwork .
The girl hear the grating noise , but fancy it be a mouse , pay no attention , and Becasigue be leave in peace to pursue his work .
At length the hole be large enough for him to peep through , and the sight be one to strike him dumb with amazement .
He have guess truly : the tall lady be Eglantine herself ; but the other -- where have he see her ?
Ah !
now he know -- it be the lady of the portrait !
Desiree , in a flowing dress of green silk , be lie stretch out upon cushion , and a Eglantine bent over her to bathe the wounded leg , she begin to talk : ` Oh !
let me die , ' cry she , ` rather than go on lead this life .
You can not tell the misery of be a beast all the day , and unable to speak to the man I love , to whose impatience I owe my cruel fate .
Yet , even so , I can not bring myself to hate him . '
These word , low though they be speak , reach Becasigue , who could hardly believe his ear .
He stand silent for a moment ; then , cross to the window out of which the prince be gaze , he take his arm and lead him across the room .
