I be an enchantress .
Circe , my father 's sister , teach me to be one , and I could tell you , if I please , who be the old woman with the peacock , the pomegranate , and the cuckoo staff , whom you carry over the river ; and , likewise , who it be that speaks through the lip of the oaken image , that stand in the prow of your galley .
I be acquaint with some of your secret , you perceive .
It be well for you that I be favorably inclined ; for , otherwise , you would hardly escape be snap up by the dragon . ''
`` I should not so much care for the dragon , '' reply Jason , `` if I only know how to manage the brazen-footed and fiery-lunged bull . ''
`` If you be as brave a I think you , and a you have need to be , '' say Medea , `` your own bold heart will teach you that there be but one way of deal with a mad bull .
What it be I leave you to find out in the moment of peril .
As for the fiery breath of these animal , I have a charm ointment here , which will prevent you from be burn up , and cure you if you chance to be a little scorched . ''
So she put a golden box into his hand , and direct him how to apply the perfumed unguent which it contain , and where to meet her at midnight .
`` Only be brave , '' add she , `` and before daybreak the brazen bull shall be tame . ''
The young man assure her that his heart would not fail him .
He then rejoin his comrade , and tell them what have pass between the princess and himself , and warn them to be in readiness in case there might be need of their help .
At the appointed hour he meet the beautiful Medea on the marble step of the king 's palace .
She give him a basket , in which be the dragon 's teeth , just a they have be pull out of the monster 's jaw by Cadmus , long ago .
Medea then lead Jason down the palace step , and through the silent street of the city , and into the royal pasture ground , where the two brazen-footed bull be keep .
It be a starry night , with a bright gleam along the eastern edge of the sky , where the moon be soon go to show herself .
After enter the pasture , the princess pause and look around .
`` There they be , '' say she , `` repose themselves and chew their fiery cud in that farthest corner of the field .
It will be excellent sport , I assure you , when they catch a glimpse of your figure .
My father and all his court delight in nothing so much a to see a stranger try to yoke them , in order to come at the Golden Fleece .
It make a holiday in Colchis whenever such a thing happen .
For my part , I enjoy it immensely .
You can not imagine in what a mere twinkling of an eye their hot breath shrivels a young man into a black cinder . ''
`` Are you sure , beautiful Medea , '' ask Jason , `` quite sure , that the unguent in the gold box will prove a remedy against those terrible burn ? ''
`` If you doubt , if you be in the least afraid , '' say the princess , look him in the face by the dim starlight , `` you have good never have be bear than to go a step nigher to the bull . ''
But Jason have set his heart steadfastly on get the Golden Fleece ; and I positively doubt whether he would have go back without it , even have he be certain of find himself turn into a red-hot cinder , or a handful of white ash , the instant he make a step far .
He therefore let go Medea 's hand , and walk boldly forward in the direction whither she have point .
At some distance before him he perceive four stream of fiery vapor , regularly appear and again vanishing , after dimly light up the surround obscurity .
These , you will understand , be cause by the breath of the brazen bull , which be quietly steal out of their four nostril , a they lay chew their cud .
At the first two or three step which Jason make , the four fiery stream appear to gush out somewhat more plentifully ; for the two brazen bull have hear his foot tramp , and be lift up their hot nose to snuff the air .
He go a little farther , and by the way in which the red vapor now spouted forth , he judge that the creature have get upon their foot .
Now he could see glow spark , and vivid jet of flame .
At the next step , each of the bull make the pasture echo with a terrible roar , while the burn breath , which they thus belch forth , light up the whole field with a momentary flash .
One other stride do bold Jason make ; and , suddenly a a streak of lightning , on come these fiery animal , roar like thunder , and send out sheet of white flame , which so kindle up the scene that the young man could discern every object more distinctly than by daylight .
Most distinctly of all he saw the two horrible creature gallop right down upon him , their brazen hoof rattling and ringing over the ground , and their tail stick up stiffly into the air , a have always be the fashion with angry bull .
Their breath scorch the herbage before them .
So intensely hot it be , indeed , that it catch a dry tree under which Jason be now stand , and set it all in a light blaze .
But a for Jason himself -LRB- thanks to Medea 's enchanted ointment -RRB- , the white flame curl around his body , without injure him a jot more than if he have be make of asbestos .
Greatly encourage at find himself not yet turn into a cinder , the young man await the attack of the bull .
Just a the brazen brute fancy themselves sure of toss him into the air , he catch one of them by the horn , and the other by his screwed-up tail , and hold them in a gripe like that of an iron vice , one with his right hand , the other with his left .
Well , he must have be wonderfully strong in his arm , to be sure .
But the secret of the matter be , that the brazen bull be enchant creature , and that Jason have break the spell of their fiery fierceness by his bold way of handle them .
And , ever since that time , it have be the favorite method of brave men , when danger assail them , to do what they call `` take the bull by the horn '' ; and to gripe him by the tail be pretty much the same thing -- that be , to throw aside fear , and overcome the peril by despise it .
It be now easy to yoke the bull , and to harness them to the plow , which have lain rust on the ground for a great many year go by ; so long be it before anybody could be find capable of plow that piece of land .
Jason , I suppose , have be taught how to draw a furrow by the good old Chiron , who , perhaps , use to allow himself to be harness to the plow .
At any rate , our hero succeed perfectly well in break up the greensward ; and , by the time that the moon be a quarter of her journey up the sky , the plowed field lay before him , a large tract of black earth , ready to be sow with the dragon 's teeth .
So Jason scatter them broadcast , and harrow them into the soil with a brush-harrow , and take his stand on the edge of the field , anxious to see what would happen next .
`` Must we wait long for harvest time ? ''
he inquire of Medea , who be now stand by his side .
`` Whether sooner or later , it will be sure to come , '' answer the princess .
`` A crop of arm men never fail to spring up , when the dragon 's teeth have be sow . ''
The moon be now high aloft in the heaven , and throw it bright beam over the plowed field , where as yet there be nothing to be see .
Any farmer , on view it , would have say that Jason must wait week before the green blade would peep from among the clod , and whole month before the yellow grain would be ripen for the sickle .
But by and by , all over the field , there be something that glisten in the moonbeam , like sparkle drop of dew .
These bright object sprout high , and prove to be the steel head of spear .
Then there be a dazzling gleam from a vast number of polished brass helmet , beneath which , a they grow farther out of the soil , appear the dark and beard visage of warrior , struggle to free themselves from the imprison earth .
The first look that they give at the upper world be a glare of wrath and defiance .
Next be see their bright breastplate ; in every right hand there be a sword or a spear , and on each left arm a shield ; and when this strange crop of warrior have but half grown out of the earth , they struggle -- such be their impatience of restraint -- and , a it be , tore themselves up by the root .
Wherever a dragon 's tooth have fall , there stand a man arm for battle .
They make a clangor with their sword against their shield , and eye one another fiercely ; for they have come into this beautiful world , and into the peaceful moonlight , full of rage and stormy passion , and ready to take the life of every human brother , in recompense of the boon of their own existence .
There have be many other army in the world that seem to possess the same fierce nature with the one which have now sprout from the dragon 's teeth ; but these , in the moonlit field , be the more excusable , because they never have woman for their mother .
And how it would have rejoice any great captain , who be bent on conquer the world , like Alexander or Napoleon , to raise a crop of armed soldier as easily a Jason do !
For a while , the warrior stand flourish their weapon , clash their sword against their shield , and boil over with the red-hot thirst for battle .
Then they begin to shout -- `` Show u the enemy !
Lead u to the charge !
Death or victory ! ''
`` Come on , brave comrade !
Conquer or die ! ''
and a hundred other outcry , such a men always bellow forth on a battle field , and which these dragon people seem to have at their tongue ' end .
At last , the front rank catch sight of Jason , who , behold the flash of so many weapon in the moonlight , have think it best to draw his sword .
In a moment all the son of the dragon 's teeth appear to take Jason for an enemy ; and cry with one voice , `` Guard the Golden Fleece ! ''
they run at him with uplifted sword and protruded spear .
Jason know that it would be impossible to withstand this blood-thirsty battalion with his single arm , but determine , since there be nothing well to be do , to die as valiantly a if he himself have spring from a dragon 's tooth .
Medea , however , bid him snatch up a stone from the ground .
`` Throw it among them quickly ! ''
cry she .
`` It be the only way to save yourself . ''
The arm men be now so nigh that Jason could discern the fire flash out of their enraged eye , when he let fly the stone , and saw it strike the helmet of a tall warrior , who be rush upon him with his blade aloft .
The stone glance from this man 's helmet to the shield of his near comrade , and thence fly right into the angry face of another , hit him smartly between the eye .
Each of the three who have be strike by the stone take it for grant that his next neighbor have give him a blow ; and instead of run any farther towards Jason , they begin to fight among themselves .
The confusion spread through the host , so that it seem scarcely a moment before they be all hacking , hewing , and stab at one another , lop off arm , head , and leg and do such memorable deed that Jason be fill with immense admiration ; although , at the same time , he could not help laugh to behold these mighty men punish each other for an offense which he himself have commit .
In an incredibly short space of time -LRB- almost a short , indeed , a it have take them to grow up -RRB- , all but one of the hero of the dragon 's teeth be stretch lifeless on the field .
The last survivor , the brave and strong of the whole , have just force enough to wave his crimson sword over his head and give a shout of exultation , cry , `` Victory !
Victory !
Immortal fame ! ''
when he himself fell down , and lay quietly among his slain brother .
And there be the end of the army that have sprout from the dragon 's teeth .
That fierce and feverish fight be the only enjoyment which they have taste on this beautiful earth .
`` Let them sleep in the bed of honor , '' say the Princess Medea , with a sly smile at Jason .
`` The world will always have simpleton enough , just like them , fight and die for they know not what , and fancy that posterity will take the trouble to put laurel wreath on their rusty and battered helmet .
Could you help smile , Prince Jason , to see the self-conceit of that last fellow , just a he tumble down ? ''
`` It make me very sad , '' answer Jason , gravely .
`` And , to tell you the truth , princess , the Golden Fleece do not appear so well worth the winning , after what I have here behold ! ''
`` You will think differently in the morning , '' say Medea .
`` True , the Golden Fleece may not be so valuable a you have think it ; but then there be nothing well in the world ; and one must need have an object , you know .
Come !
Your night 's work have be well perform ; and to-morrow you can inform King Aetes that the first part of your allotted task be fulfil . ''
Agreeably to Medea 's advice , Jason go betimes in the morning to the palace of King Aetes .
Entering the presence chamber , he stand at the foot of the throne , and make a low obeisance .
`` Your eye look heavy , Prince Jason , '' observe the king ; `` you appear to have spend a sleepless night .
I hope you have be consider the matter a little more wisely , and have conclude not to get yourself scorch to a cinder , in attempt to tame my brazen-lunged bull . ''
`` That be already accomplish , may it please your majesty , '' reply Jason .
`` The bull have be tame and yoke ; the field have be plow ; the dragon 's teeth have be sow broadcast , and harrow into the soil ; the crop of armed warrior have spring up , and they have slay one another , to the last man .
And now I solicit your majesty 's permission to encounter the dragon , that I may take down the Golden Fleece from the tree , and depart , with my nine and forty comrade . ''
King Aetes scowl , and look very angry and excessively disturb ; for he know that , in accordance with his kingly promise , he ought now to permit Jason to win the Fleece , if his courage and skill should enable him to do so .
But , since the young man have meet with such good luck in the matter of the brazen bull and the dragon 's teeth , the king fear that he would be equally successful in slay the dragon .
And therefore , though he would gladly have see Jason snap up at a mouthful , he be resolve -LRB- and it be a very wrong thing of this wicked potentate -RRB- not to run any further risk of lose his beloved Fleece .
`` You never would have succeed in this business , young man , '' say he , `` if my undutiful daughter Medea have not help you with her enchantment .
Had you act fairly , you would have be , at this instant , a black cinder , or a handful of white ash .
I forbid you , on pain of death , to make any more attempt to get the Golden Fleece .
To speak my mind plainly , you shall never set eye on so much a one of it glistening lock . ''
Jason leave the king 's presence in great sorrow and anger .
He could think of nothing well to be do than to summon together his forty-nine brave Argonauts , march at once to the Grove of Mars , slay the dragon , take possession of the Golden Fleece , get on board the Argo , and spread all sail for Iolchos .
The success of this scheme depend , it be true , on the doubtful point whether all the fifty hero might not be snap up , at so many mouthful , by the dragon .
But , a Jason be hasten down the palace step , the Princess Medea call after him , and beckon him to return .
Her black eye shine upon him with such a keen intelligence , that he felt a if there be a serpent peep out of them ; and , although she have do him so much service only the night before , he be by no mean very certain that she would not do him an equally great mischief before sunset .
These enchantress , you must know , be never to be depend upon .
`` What say King Aetes , my royal and upright father ? ''
inquired Medea , slightly smile .
`` Will he give you the Golden Fleece , without any further risk or trouble ? ''
`` On the contrary , '' answer Jason , `` he be very angry with me for tame the brazen bull and sow the dragon 's teeth .
And he forbid me to make any more attempt , and positively refuse to give up the Golden Fleece , whether I slay the dragon or no . ''
`` Yes , Jason , '' say the princess , `` and I can tell you more .
Unless you set sail from Colchis before to-morrow 's sunrise , the king mean to burn your fifty-oared galley , and put yourself and your forty-nine brave comrade to the sword .
But be of good courage .
The Golden Fleece you shall have , if it lie within the power of my enchantment to get it for you .
Wait for me here an hour before midnight . ''
At the appoint hour you might again have see Prince Jason and the Princess Medea , side by side , steal through the street of Colchis , on their way to the sacred grove , in the center of which the Golden Fleece be suspend to a tree .
While they be cross the pasture ground , the brazen bull come towards Jason , lowing , nod their head , and thrust forth their snout , which , a other cattle do , they love to have rub and caress by a friendly hand .
Their fierce nature be thoroughly tame ; and , with their fierceness , the two furnace in their stomach have likewise be extinguish , insomuch that they probably enjoy far more comfort in grazing and chew their cud than ever before .
Indeed , it have heretofore be a great inconvenience to these poor animal , that , whenever they wish to eat a mouthful of grass , the fire out of their nostril have shrivel it up , before they could manage to crop it .
How they contrive to keep themselves alive be more than I can imagine .
But now , instead of emit jet of flame and stream of sulphurous vapor , they breathe the very sweet of cow breath .
After kindly pat the bull , Jason follow Medea 's guidance into the Grove of Mars , where the great oak tree , that have be grow for century , throw so thick a shade that the moonbeam struggle vainly to find their way through it .
Only here and there a glimmer fell upon the leaf-strewn earth , or now and then a breeze stir the bough aside , and give Jason a glimpse of the sky , l , in that deep obscurity , he might forget that there be one , overhead .
At length , when they have go far and far into the heart of the duskiness , Medea squeeze Jason 's hand .
`` Look yonder , '' she whisper .
`` Do you see it ? ''
Gleaming among the venerable oak , there be a radiance , not like the moonbeam , but rather resemble the golden glory of the setting sun .
It proceed from an object , which appear to be suspend at about a man 's height from the ground , a little farther within the wood .
`` What be it ? ''
ask Jason .
`` Have you come so far to seek it , '' exclaim Medea , `` and do you not recognize the meed of all your toil and peril , when it glitter before your eye ?
It be the Golden Fleece . ''
Jason go onward a few step far , and then stop to gaze .
O , how beautiful it look , shin with a marvelous light of it own , that inestimable prize which so many hero have long to behold , but have perish in the quest of it , either by the peril of their voyage , or by the fiery breath of the brazen-lunged bull .
`` How gloriously it shin ! ''
cry Jason , in a rapture .
`` It have surely be dip in the rich gold of sunset .
Let me hasten onward , and take it to my bosom . ''
`` Stay , '' say Medea , hold him back .
`` Have you forget what guard it ? ''
To say the truth , in the joy of behold the object of his desire , the terrible dragon have quite slip out of Jason 's memory .
Soon , however , something come to pass , that remind him what peril be still to be encounter .
An antelope , that probably mistake the yellow radiance for sunrise , come bound fleetly through the grove .
He be rush straight towards the Golden Fleece , when suddenly there be a frightful hiss , and the immense head and half the scaly body of the dragon be thrust forth -LRB- for he be twist round the trunk of the tree on which the Fleece hung -RRB- , and seize the poor antelope , swallow him with one snap of his jaw .
After this feat , the dragon seem sensible that some other living creature be within reach , on which he felt inclined to finish his meal .
In various direction he keep poke his ugly snout among the tree , stretch out his neck a terrible long way , now here , now there , and now close to the spot where Jason and the princess be hide behind an oak .
Upon my word , a the head come wave and undulate through the air , and reach almost within arm 's length of Prince Jason , it be a very hideous and uncomfortable sight .
The gape of his enormous jaw be nearly as wide a the gateway of the king 's palace .
`` Well , Jason , '' whisper Medea -LRB- for she be ill natured , a all enchantress be , and want to make the bold youth tremble -RRB- , `` what do you think now of your prospect of win the Golden Fleece ? ''
Jason answer only by draw his sword , and make a step forward .
`` Stay , foolish youth , '' say Medea , grasp his arm .
`` Do not you see you be lose , without me a your good angel ?
In this gold box I have a magic potion , which will do the dragon 's business far more effectually than your sword . ''
The dragon have probably hear the voice ; for swift a lightning , his black head and forked tongue come hiss among the tree again , dart full forty foot at a stretch .
As it approach , Medea toss the content of the gold box right down the monster 's wide-open throat .
Immediately , with an outrageous hiss and a tremendous wriggle -- fling his tail up to the tip-top of the tall tree , and shatter all it branch a it crash heavily down again -- the dragon fell at full length upon the ground , and lay quite motionless .
`` It be only a sleeping potion , '' say the enchantress to Prince Jason .
`` One always find a use for these mischievous creature , sooner or later ; so I do not wish to kill him outright .
Quick !
Snatch the prize , and let u begone .
You have win the Golden Fleece . ''
Jason catch the fleece from the tree , and hurry through the grove , the deep shadow of which be illuminate a he pass by the golden glory of the precious object that he bore along .
A little way before him , he behold the old woman whom he have help over the stream , with her peacock beside her .
She clap her hand for joy , and beckon him to make haste , disappear among the duskiness of the tree .
Espying the two wing son of the North Wind -LRB- who be disport themselves in the moonlight , a few hundred foot aloft -RRB- , Jason bid them tell the rest of the Argonauts to embark as speedily a possible .
But Lynceus , with his sharp eye , have already catch a glimpse of him , bring the Golden Fleece , although several stone wall , a hill , and the black shadow of the Grove of Mars , intervene between .
By his advice , the hero have seat themselves on the bench of the galley , with their oar hold perpendicularly , ready to let fall into the water .
As Jason draw near , he hear the Talking Image call to him with more than ordinary eagerness , in it grave , sweet voice : `` Make haste , Prince Jason !
For your life , make haste ! ''
With one bound , he leap aboard .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Gorgon's_Head.txt.out
INTRODUCTORY TO `` THE GORGON 'S HEAD . ''
Beneath the porch of the country-seat call Tanglewood , one fine autumnal morning , be assemble a merry party of little folk , with a tall youth in the midst of them .
They have plan a nutting expedition , and be impatiently wait for the mist to roll up the hill-slopes , and for the sun to pour the warmth of the Indian summer over the field and pasture , and into the nook of the many-colored wood .
There be a prospect of a fine a day a ever gladden the aspect of this beautiful and comfortable world .
As yet , however , the morning mist fill up the whole length and breadth of the valley , above which , on a gently slop eminence , the mansion stand .
This body of white vapor extend to within less than a hundred yard of the house .
It completely hide everything beyond that distance , except a few ruddy or yellow tree-tops , which here and there emerge , and be glorify by the early sunshine , a be likewise the broad surface of the mist .
Four or five mile off to the southward rise the summit of Monument Mountain , and seem to be float on a cloud .
Some fifteen mile far away , in the same direction , appear the lofty Dome of Taconic , look blue and indistinct , and hardly so substantial a the vapory sea that almost roll over it .
The nearer hill , which border the valley , be half submerge , and be speck with little cloud-wreaths all the way to their top .
On the whole , there be so much cloud , and so little solid earth , that it have the effect of a vision .
The child above-mentioned , be a full of life a they could hold , keep overflow from the porch of Tanglewood , and scamper along the gravel-walk , or rush across the dewy herbage of the lawn .
I can hardly tell how many of these small people there be ; not less than nine or ten , however , nor more than a dozen , of all sort , size , and age , whether girl or boy .
They be brother , sister , and cousin , together with a few of their young acquaintance , who have be invite by Mr. and Mrs. Pringle to spend some of this delightful weather with their own child , at Tanglewood .
I be afraid to tell you their name , or even to give them any name which other child have ever be call by ; because , to my certain knowledge , author sometimes get themselves into great trouble by accidentally give the name of real person to the character in their book .
For this reason , I mean to call them Primrose , Periwinkle , Sweet Fern , Dandelion , Blue Eye , Clover , Huckleberry , Cowslip , Squash-blossom , Milkweed , Plantain , and Buttercup ; although , to be sure , such title might better suit a group of fairy than a company of earthly child .
It be not to be suppose that these little folk be to be permit by their careful father and mother , uncle , aunt , or grandparent , to stray abroad into the wood and field , without the guardianship of some particularly grave and elderly person .
O no , indeed !
In the first sentence of my book , you will recollect that I speak of a tall youth , stand in the midst of the child .
His name -- -LRB- and I shall let you know his real name , because he consider it a great honor to have tell the story that be here to be print -RRB- -- his name be Eustace Bright .
He be a student at Williams College , and have reach , I think , at this period , the venerable age of eighteen -- year ; so that he felt quite like a grandfather towards Periwinkle , Dandelion , Huckleberry , Squash-blossom , Milkweed , and the rest , who be only half or a third as venerable a he .
A trouble in his eyesight -LRB- such a many student think it necessary to have , nowadays , in order to prove their diligence at their book -RRB- have keep him from college a week or two after the beginning of the term .
But , for my part , I have seldom meet with a pair of eye that look a if they could see far or good than those of Eustace Bright .
This learn student be slender , and rather pale , a all Yankee student be ; but yet of a healthy aspect , and a light and active a if he have wing to his shoe .
By the by , be much addict to wad through streamlet and across meadow , he have put on cowhide boot for the expedition .
He wear a linen blouse , a cloth cap , and a pair of green spectacle , which he have assume , probably , less for the preservation of his eye , than for the dignity that they impart to his countenance .
In either case , however , he might as well have let then alone ; for Huckleberry , a mischievous little elf , creep behind Eustace a he sit on the step of the porch , snatch the spectacle from his nose , and clap them on her own ; and a the student forget to take them back , they fell off into the grass , and lay there till the next spring .
Now , Eustace Bright , you must know , have win great fame among the child , a a narrator of wonderful story ; and though he sometimes pretend to be annoy , when they tease him for more , and more , and always for more , yet I really doubt whether he like anything quite so well a to tell them .
You might have see his eye twinkle , therefore , when Clover , Sweet Fern , Cowslip , Buttercup , and most of their playmate , beseech him to relate one of his story , while they be wait for the mist to clear up .
`` Yes , Cousin Eustace , '' say Primrose , who be a bright girl of twelve , with laughing eye , and a nose that turn up a little , `` the morning be certainly the best time for the story with which you so often tire out our patience .
We shall be in less danger of hurt your feeling , by fall asleep at the most interesting point , -- a little Cowslip and I do last night ! ''
`` Naughty Primrose , '' cry Cowslip , a child of six year old ; `` I do not fall asleep , and I only shut my eye , so a to see a picture of what Cousin Eustace be tell about .
His story be good to hear at night , because we can dream about them asleep ; and good in the morning , too , because then we can dream about them awake .
So I hope he will tell u one this very minute . ''
`` Thank you , my little Cowslip , '' say Eustace ; `` certainly you shall have the best story I can think of , if it be only for defend me so well from that naughty Primrose .
But , child , I have already tell you so many fairy tale , that I doubt whether there be a single one which you have not hear at least twice over .
I be afraid you will fall asleep in reality , if I repeat any of them again . ''
`` No , no , no ! ''
cry Blue Eye , Periwinkle , Plantain , and half a dozen others .
`` We like a story all the good for have hear it two or three tune before . ''
And it be a truth , a regard child , that a story seem often to deepen it mark in their interest , not merely by two or three , but by numberless repetition .
But Eustace Bright , in the exuberance of his resource , scorn to avail himself of an advantage which an old story-teller would have be glad to grasp at .
`` It would be a great pity , '' say he , `` if a man of my learn -LRB- to say nothing of original fancy -RRB- could not find a new story every day , year in and year out , for child such a you .
I will tell you one of the nursery tale that be make for the amusement of our great old grandmother , the Earth , when she be a child in frock and pinafore .
There be a hundred such ; and it be a wonder to me that they have not long ago be put into picture-books for little girl and boy .
But , instead of that , old gray-bearded grandsires pore over them , in musty volume of Greek , and puzzle themselves with try to find out when , and how , and for what they be make . ''
`` Well , well , well , well , Cousin Eustace ! ''
cry all the child at once ; `` talk no more about your story , but begin . ''
`` Sit down , then , every soul of you , '' say Eustace Bright , `` and be all as still a so many mouse .
At the slight interruption , whether from great , naughty Primrose , little Dandelion , or any other , I shall bite the story short off between my teeth , and swallow the untold part .
But , in the first place , do any of you know what a Gorgon be ? ''
`` I do , '' say Primrose .
`` Then hold your tongue ! ''
rejoin Eustace , who have rather she would have know nothing about the matter .
`` Hold all your tongue , and I shall tell you a sweet pretty story of a Gorgon 's head . ''
And so he do , a you may begin to read on the next page .
Working up his sophomorical erudition with a good deal of tact , and incur great obligation to Professor Anthon , he , nevertheless , disregard all classical authority , whenever the vagrant audacity of his imagination impel him to do so .
THE GORGON 'S HEAD .
Perseus be the son of Danae , who be the daughter of a king .
And when Perseus be a very little boy , some wicked people put his mother and himself into a chest , and set them afloat upon the sea .
The wind blew freshly , and drive the chest away from the shore , and the uneasy billow toss it up and down ; while Danae clasp her child closely to her bosom , and dread that some big wave would dash it foamy crest over them both .
The chest sail on , however , and neither sank nor be upset ; until , when night be come , it float so near an island that it get entangle in a fisherman 's net , and be draw out high and dry upon the sand .
The island be call Seriphus , and it be reign over by King Polydectes , who happen to be the fisherman 's brother .
This fisherman , I be glad to tell you , be an exceedingly humane and upright man .
He show great kindness to Danae and her little boy ; and continue to befriend them , until Perseus have grow to be a handsome youth , very strong and active , and skilful in the use of arm .
Long before this time , King Polydectes have see the two stranger -- the mother and her child -- who have come to his dominion in a floating chest .
As he be not good and kind , like his brother the fisherman , but extremely wicked , he resolve to send Perseus on a dangerous enterprise , in which he would probably be kill , and then to do some great mischief to Danae herself .
So this bad-hearted king spend a long while in consider what be the most dangerous thing that a young man could possibly undertake to perform .
At last , have hit upon an enterprise that promise to turn out as fatally a he desire , he send for the youthful Perseus .
The young man come to the palace , and find the king sit upon his throne .
`` Perseus , '' say King Polydectes , smile craftily upon him , `` you be grow up a fine young man .
You and your good mother have receive a great deal of kindness from myself , as well a from my worthy brother the fisherman , and I suppose you would not be sorry to repay some of it . ''
`` Please your Majesty , '' answer Perseus , `` I would willingly risk my life to do so . ''
`` Well , then , '' continue the king , still with a curve smile on his lip , `` I have a little adventure to propose to you ; and , a you be a brave and enterprising youth , you will doubtless look upon it a a great piece of good luck to have so rare an opportunity of distinguish yourself .
You must know , my good Perseus , I think of get marry to the beautiful Princess Hippodamia ; and it be customary , on these occasion , to make the bride a present of some far-fetched and elegant curiosity .
I have be a little perplexed , I must honestly confess , where to obtain anything likely to please a princess of her exquisite taste .
But , this morning , I flatter myself , I have think of precisely the article . ''
`` And can I assist your Majesty in obtain it ? ''
cry Perseus , eagerly .
`` You can , if you be a brave a youth a I believe you to be , '' reply King Polydectes , with the utmost graciousness of manner .
`` The bridal gift which I have set my heart on present to the beautiful Hippodamia be the head of the Gorgon Medusa , with the snaky lock ; and I depend on you , my dear Perseus , to bring it to me .
So , a I be anxious to settle affair with the princess , the sooner you go in quest of the Gorgon , the good I shall be please . ''
`` I will set out to-morrow morning , '' answer Perseus .
`` Pray do so , my gallant youth , '' rejoin the king .
`` And , Perseus , in cut off the Gorgon 's head , be careful to make a clean stroke , so a not to injure it appearance .
You must bring it home in the very best condition , in order to suit the exquisite taste of the beautiful Princess Hippodamia . ''
Perseus leave the palace , but be scarcely out of hear before Polydectes burst into a laugh ; be greatly amuse , wicked king that he be , to find how readily the young man fell into the snare .
The news quickly spread abroad , that Perseus have undertake to cut off the head of Medusa with the snaky lock .
Everybody be rejoice ; for most of the inhabitant of the island be as wicked a the king himself , and would have like nothing well than to see some enormous mischief happen to Danae and her son .
The only good man in this unfortunate island of Seriphus appear to have be the fisherman .
As Perseus walk along , therefore , the people point after him , and make mouth , and wink to one another , and ridicule him as loudly a they dare .
`` Ho , ho ! ''
cry they ; `` Medusa 's snake will sting him soundly ! ''
Now , there be three Gorgons alive , at that period ; and they be the most strange and terrible monster that have ever be since the world be make , or that have be see in after day , or that be likely to be see in all time to come .
I hardly know what sort of creature or hobgoblin to call them .
They be three sister , and seem to have bear some distant resemblance to woman , but be really a very frightful and mischievous specie of dragon .
It be , indeed , difficult to imagine what hideous being these three sister be .
Why , instead of lock of hair , if you can believe me , they have each of them a hundred enormous snake grow on their head , all alive , twist , wriggle , curl , and thrust out their venomous ' tongue , with forked sting at the end !
The teeth of the Gorgons be terribly long tusk ; their hand be make of brass ; and their body be all over scale , which , if not iron , be something as hard and impenetrable .
They have wing , too , and exceedingly splendid one , I can assure you ; for every feather in them be pure , bright , glittering , burnish gold , and they look very dazzlingly , no doubt , when the Gorgons be fly about in the sunshine .
But when people happen to catch a glimpse of their glittering brightness , aloft in the air , they seldom stop to gaze , but run and hid themselves as speedily a they could .
You will think , perhaps , that they be afraid of be sting by the serpent that serve the Gorgons instead of hair , -- or of have their head bite off by their ugly tusk , -- or of be tear all to piece by their brazen claw .
Well , to be sure , these be some of the danger , but by no mean the great , nor the most difficult to avoid .
For the bad thing about these abominable Gorgons be , that , if once a poor mortal fix his eye full upon one of their face , he be certain , that very instant , to be change from warm flesh and blood into cold and lifeless stone !
Thus , a you will easily perceive , it be a very dangerous adventure that the wicked King Polydectes have contrive for this innocent young man .
Perseus himself , when he have think over the matter , could not help see that he have very little chance of come safely through it , and that he be far more likely to become a stone image than to bring back the head of Medusa with the snaky lock .
For , not to speak of other difficulty , there be one which it would have puzzle an old man than Perseus to get over .
Not only must he fight with and slay this golden-winged , iron-scaled , long-tusked , brazen-clawed , snaky-haired monster , but he must do it with his eye shut , or , at least , without so much a a glance at the enemy with whom he be contend .
Else , while his arm be lift to strike , he would stiffen into stone , and stand with that uplifted arm for century , until time , and the wind and weather , should crumble him quite away .
This would be a very sad thing to befall a young mail who want to perform a great many brave deed , and to enjoy a great deal of happiness , in this bright and beautiful world .
So disconsolate do these thought make him , that Perseus could not bear to tell his another what he have undertake to do .
He therefore take his shield , gird on his sword , and cross over from the island to the mainland , where he sit down in a solitary place , and hardly refrain from shed tear .
But , while he be in this sorrowful mood , he hear a voice close beside him .
`` Perseus , '' say the voice , `` why be you sad ? ''
He lift his head from his hand , in which he have hide it , and , behold !
all alone a Perseus have suppose himself to be , there be a stranger in the solitary place .
It be a brisk , intelligent , and remarkably shrewd-looking young man , with a cloak over his shoulder , an odd sort of cap on his head , a strangely twisted staff in his hand , and a short and very crooked sword hanging by his side .
He be exceedingly light and active in his figure , like a person much accustom to gymnastic exercise , and well able to leap or run .
Above all , the stranger have such a cheerful , knowing , and helpful aspect -LRB- though it be certainly a little mischievous , into the bargain -RRB- , that Perseus could not help feel his spirit grow lively , a he gaze at him .
Besides , be really a courageous youth , he felt greatly ashamed that anybody should have find him with tear in his eye , like a timid little school-boy , when , after all , there might be no occasion for despair .
So Perseus wipe his eye , and answer the stranger pretty briskly , put on a brave a look a he could .
`` I be not so very sad , '' say he ; `` only thoughtful about an adventure that I have undertake . ''
`` Oho ! ''
answer the stranger .
`` Well , tell me all about it , and possibly I may be of service to you .
I have help a good many young men through adventure that look difficult enough beforehand .
Perhaps you may have heard of me .
I have more name than one ; but the name of Quicksilver suit me as well a any other .
Tell me what your trouble be , and we will talk the matter over , and see what can be do . ''
The stranger 's word and manner put Perseus into quite a different mood from his former one .
He resolve to tell Quicksilver all his difficulty , since he could not easily be bad off than he already be , and , very possibly , his new friend might give him some advice that would turn out well in the end .
So he let the stranger know , in few word , precisely what the case be ; -- how that King Polydeetes want the head of Medusa with the snaky lock a a bridal gift for the beautiful Princess Hippodamia , and how that he have undertake to get it for him , but be afraid of be turn into stone .
`` And that would be a great pity , '' say Quicksilver , with his mischievous smile .
`` You would make a very handsome marble statue , it be true , and it would be a considerable number of century before you crumble away ; but , on the whole , one would rather be a young man for a few year , than a stone image for a great many . ''
`` O , far rather ! ''
exclaim Perseus , with the tear again stand in his eye .
`` And , besides , what would my dear mother do , if her beloved son be turn into a stone ? ''
`` Well , well ; let u hope that the affair will not turn out so very badly , '' reply Quicksilver , in an encouraging tone .
`` I be the very person to help you , if anybody can .
My sister and myself will do our utmost to bring you safe through the adventure , ugly a it now look . ''
`` Your sister ? ''
repeat Perseus .
`` Yes , my sister , '' say the stranger .
`` She be very wise , I promise you ; and a for myself , I generally have all my wit about me , such a they be .
If you show yourself bold and cautious , and follow our advice , you need not fear be a stone image yet awhile .
But , first of all , you must polish your shield , till you can see your face in it as distinctly a in a mirror . ''
This seem to Perseus rather an odd beginning of the adventure ; for he think it of far more consequence that the shield should be strong enough to defend him from the Gorgon 's brazen claw , than that it should be bright enough to show him the reflection of his face .
However , conclude that Quicksilver know good than himself , he immediately set to work , and scrub the shield with so much diligence and good-will , that it very quickly shone like the moon at harvest-time .
Quicksilver look at it with a smile , and nod his approbation .
Then , take off his own short and crooked sword , he gird it about Perseus , instead of the one which he have before worn .
`` No sword but mine will answer your purpose , '' observe he ; `` the blade have a most excellent temper , and will cut through iron and brass as easily a through the slender twig .
And now we will set out .
The next thing be to find the Three Gray Women , who will tell u where to find the Nymphs . ''
`` The Three Gray Women ! ''
cry Perseus , to whom this seem only a new difficulty in the path of his adventure ; `` pray , who may the Three Gray Women be ?
I never heard of them before . ''
`` They be three very strange old lady , '' say Quicksilver , laugh .
`` They have but one eye among them , and only one tooth .
Moreover , you must find them out by starlight , or in the dusk of the evening ; for they never show themselves by the light either of the sun or moon . ''
`` But , '' say Perseus , `` why should I waste my time with these Three Gray Women ?
Would it not be good to set out at once in search of the terrible Gorgons ? ''
`` No , no , '' answer his friend .
`` There be other thing to be do , before you can find your way to the Gorgons .
There be nothing for it but to hunt up these old lady ; and when we meet with them , you may be sure that the Gorgons be not a great way off .
Come , let u be stir ! ''
Perseus , by this time , felt so much confidence in his companion 's sagacity , that he make no more objection , and profess himself ready to begin the adventure immediately .
They accordingly set out , and walk at a pretty brisk pace ; so brisk , indeed , that Perseus find it rather difficult to keep up with his nimble friend Quicksilver .
To say the truth , he have a singular idea that Quicksilver be furnish with a pair of winged shoe , which , of course , help him along marvellously .
And then , too , when Perseus look sideways at him , out of the corner of his eye , he seem to see wing on the side of his head ; although , if he turn a full gaze , there be no such thing to be perceive , but only an odd kind of cap .
But , at all event , the twisted staff be evidently a great convenience to Quicksilver , and enable him to proceed so fast , that Perseus , though a remarkably active young man , begin to be out of breath .
`` Here ! ''
cry Quicksilver , at last , -- for he know well enough , rogue that he be , how hard Perseus find it to keep pace with him , -- `` take you the staff , for you need it a great deal more than I . Are there no good walker than yourself , in the island of Seriphus ? ''
`` I could walk pretty well , '' say Perseus , glance slyly at his companion 's foot , `` if I have only a pair of winged shoe . ''
`` We must see about get you a pair , '' answer Quicksilver .
But the staff help Perseus along so bravely , that he no longer felt the slight weariness .
In fact , the stick seem to be alive in his hand , and to lend some of it life to Perseus .
He and Quicksilver now walked onward at their ease , talk very sociably together ; and Quicksilver tell so many pleasant story about his former adventure , and how well his wit have serve him on various occasion , that Perseus begin to think him a very wonderful person .
He evidently know the world ; and nobody be so charming to a young man a a friend who have that kind of knowledge .
Perseus listen the more eagerly , in the hope of brighten his own wit by what he hear .
At last , he happen to recollect that Quicksilver have speak of a sister , who be to lend her assistance in the adventure which they be now bind upon .
`` Where be she ? ''
he inquire .
`` Shall we not meet her soon ? ''
`` All at the proper time , '' say his companion .
`` But this sister of mine , you must understand , be quite a different sort of character from myself .
She be very grave and prudent , seldom smile , never laugh , and make it a rule not to utter a word unless she have something particularly profound to say .
Neither will she listen to any but the wise conversation . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
ejaculate Perseus ; `` I shall be afraid to say a syllable . ''
`` She be a very accomplished person , I assure you , '' continue Quicksilver , `` and have all the art and science at her finger ' end .
In short , she be so immoderately wise , that many people call her wisdom personify .
But , to tell you the truth , she have hardly vivacity enough for my taste ; and I think you would scarcely find her so pleasant a travelling companion a myself .
She have her good point , nevertheless ; and you will find the benefit of them , in your encounter with the Gorgons . ''
By this time it have grow quite dusk .
They be now come to a very wild and desert place , overgrown with shaggy bush , and so silent and solitary that nobody seem ever to have dwelt or journeyed there .
All be waste and desolate , in the gray twilight , which grow every moment more obscure .
Perseus look about him , rather disconsolately , and ask Quicksilver whether they have a great deal farther to go .
`` Hist !
Hist ! ''
whisper his companion .
`` Make no noise !
This be just the time and place to meet the Three Gray Women .
Be careful that they do not see you before you see them ; for , though they have but a single eye among the three , it be as sharp-sighted a half a dozen common eye . ''
`` But what must I do , '' ask Perseus , `` when we meet them ? ''
Quicksilver explain to Perseus how the Three Gray Women manage with their one eye .
They be in the habit , it seem , of change it from one to another , a if it have be a pair of spectacle , or -- which would have suit them good -- quizzing-glass .
When one of the three have keep the eye a certain time , she take it out of the socket and pass it to one of her sister , whose turn it might happen to be , and who immediately clap it into her own head , and enjoy a peep at the visible world .
Thus it will easily be understood that only one of the Three Gray Women could see , while the other two be in utter darkness ; and , moreover , at the instant when the eye be pass from hand to hand , neither of the poor old lady be able to see a wink .
I have hear of a great many strange thing , in my day , and have witness not a few ; but none , it seem to me , that can compare with the oddity of these Three Gray Women , all peep through a single eye .
So thought Perseus , likewise , and be so astonished that he almost fancy his companion be joke with him , and that there be no such old woman in the world .
`` You will soon find whether I tell the truth or no , '' observe Quicksilver .
`` Hark !
hush !
Hist !
hist !
There they come , now ! ''
Perseus look earnestly through the dusk of the evening , and there , sure enough , at no great distance off , he descry the Three Gray Women .
The light be so faint , he could not well make out what sort of figure they be ; only he discover that they have long gray hair ; and , a they come nearer , he saw that two of them have but the empty socket of an eye , in the middle of their forehead .
But , in the middle of the third sister 's forehead , there be a very large , bright , and pierce eye , which sparkle like a great diamond in a ring ; and so penetrate do it seem to be , that Perseus could not help think it must possess the gift of see in the dark midnight just as perfectly a at noonday .
The sight of three person ' eye be melt and collect into that single one .
Thus the three old dame get along about a comfortably , upon the whole , a if they could all see at once .
She who chance to have the eye in her forehead lead the other two by the hand , peep sharply about her , all the while ; insomuch that Perseus dread l she should see right through the thick clump of bush behind which he and Quicksilver have hide themselves .
My star !
it be positively terrible to be within reach of so very sharp an eye !
But , before they reach the clump of bush , one of the Three Gray Women speak .
`` Sister !
Sister Scarecrow ! ''
cry she , `` you have have the eye long enough .
It be my turn now ! ''
`` Let me keep it a moment longer , Sister Nightmare , '' answer Scarecrow .
`` I think I have a glimpse of something behind that thick bush . ''
`` Well , and what of that ? ''
retort Nightmare , peevishly .
`` Ca n't I see into a thick bush as easily a yourself ?
The eye be mine , as well a yours ; and I know the use of it as well a you , or may be a little good .
I insist upon take a peep immediately ! ''
But here the third sister , whose name be Shakejoint , begin to complain , and say that it be her turn to have the eye , and that Scarecrow and Nightmare want to keep it all to themselves .
To end the dispute , old Dame Scarecrow take the eye out of her forehead , and hold it forth in her hand .
`` Take it , one of you , '' cry she , `` and quit this foolish quarrelling .
For my part , I shall be glad of a little thick darkness .
Take it quickly , however , or I must clap it into my own head again ! ''
Accordingly , both Nightmare and Shakejoint stretch out their hand , grope eagerly to snatch the eye out of the hand of Scarecrow .
But , be both alike blind , they could not easily find where Scarecrow 's hand be ; and Scarecrow , be now just as much in the dark a Shakejoint and Nightmare , could not at once meet either of their hand , in order to put the eye into it .
Thus -LRB- a you will see , with half an eye , my wise little auditor -RRB- , these good old dame have fall into a strange perplexity .
For , though the eye shone and glisten like a star , a Scarecrow hold it out , yet the Gray Women catch not the least glimpse of it light , and be all three in utter darkness , from too impatient a desire to see .
Quicksilver be so much tickle at behold Shakejoint and Nightmare both grope for the eye , and each finding fault with Scarecrow and one another , that he could scarcely help laugh aloud .
`` Now be your time ! ''
he whisper to Perseus .
`` Quick , quick !
before they can clap the eye into either of their head .
Rush out upon the old lady , and snatch it from Scarecrow 's hand ! ''
In an instant , while the Three Gray Women be still scold each other , Perseus leap front behind the clump of bush , and make himself master of the prize .
The marvellous eye , a he hold it in his hand , shone very brightly , and seem to look up into his face with a know air , and an expression a if it would have wink , have it be provide with a pair of eyelid for that purpose .
But the Gray Women know nothing of what have happen ; and , each suppose that one of her sister be in possession of the eye , they begin their quarrel anew .
At last , a Perseus do not wish to put these respectable dame to great inconvenience than be really necessary , he think it right to explain the matter .
`` My good lady , '' say he , `` pray do not be angry with one another .
If anybody be in fault , it be myself ; for I have the honor to hold your very brilliant and excellent eye in my own hand ! ''
`` You !
you have our eye !
And who be you ? ''
scream the Three Gray Women , all in a breath ; for they be terribly frighten , of course , at hear a strange voice , and discover that their eyesight have get into the hand of they could not guess whom .
`` O , what shall we do , sisters ?
what shall we do ?
We be all in the dark !
Give u our eye !
Give u our one , precious , solitary eye !
You have two of your own Give u our eye ! ''
`` Tell them , '' whisper Quicksilver to Perseus , `` that they shall have back the eye as soon a they direct you where to find the Nymphs who have the fly slipper , the magic wallet , and the helmet of darkness . ''
`` My dear , good , admirable old lady , '' say Perseus , address the Gray Women , `` there be no occasion for put yourselves into such a fright .
I be by no mean a bad young man .
You shall have back your eye , safe and sound , and as bright a ever , the moment you tell me where to find the Nymphs . ''
`` The Nymphs !
Goodness me !
sister , what Nymphs do he mean ? ''
scream Scarecrow .
`` There be a great many Nymphs , people say ; some that go a hunting in the wood , and some that live inside of tree , and some that have a comfortable home in fountain of water .
We know nothing at all about them .
We be three unfortunate old soul , that go wander about in the dusk , and never have but one eye amongst u , and that one you have steal away .
O , give it back , good stranger !
-- whoever you be , give it back ! ''
All this while the Three Gray Women be grope with their outstretched hand , and try their utmost to get hold of Perseus .
But he take good care to keep out of their reach .
`` My respectable dame , '' say he , -- for his mother have teach him always to use the great civility , -- `` I hold your eye fast in my hand , and shall keep it safely for you , until you please to tell me where to find these Nymphs .
The Nymphs , I mean , who keep the enchanted wallet , the fly slipper , and the what be it ?
-- the helmet of invisibility . ''
`` Mercy on u , sister !
what be the young man talk about ? ''
exclaim Scarecrow , Nightmare , and Shakejoint , one to another , with great appearance of astonishment .
`` A pair of fly slipper , quoth he !
His heel would quickly fly high than his head , if he be silly enough to put them on .
And a helmet of invisibility !
How could a helmet make him invisible , unless it be big enough for him to hide under it ?
And an enchanted wallet !
What sort of a contrivance may that be , I wonder ?
No , no , good stranger !
we can tell you nothing of these marvellous thing .
You have two eye of your own , and we have but a single one amongst u three .
You can find out such wonder well than three blind old creature , like u . ''
Perseus , hear them talk in this way , begin really to think that the Gray Women know nothing of the matter ; and , a it grieve him to have put them to so much trouble , he be just on the point of restore their eye and ask pardon for his rudeness in snatch it away .
But Quicksilver catch his hand .
`` Do n't let them make a fool of you ! ''
say he .
`` These Three Gray Women be the only person in the world that can tell you where to find the Nymphs ; and , unless you get that information , you will never succeed in cut off the head of Medusa with the snaky lock .
Keep fast hold of the eye , and all will go well . ''
As it turn out , Quicksilver be in the right .
There be but few thing that people prize so much a they do their eyesight ; and the Gray Women value their single eye as highly a if it have be half a dozen , which be the number they ought to have have .
Finding that there be no other way of recover it , they at last told Perseus what he want to know .
No sooner have they do so , than he immediately , and with the utmost respect , clap the eye into the vacant socket in one of their forehead , thank them for their kindness , and bid them farewell .
Before the young man be out of hearing , however , they have get into a new dispute , because he happen to have give the eye to Scarecrow , who have already take her turn of it when their trouble with Perseus commence .
It be greatly to be fear that the Three Gray Women be very much in the habit of disturb their mutual harmony by bickering of this sort ; which be the more pity , a they could not conveniently do without one another , and be evidently intend to be inseparable companion .
As a general rule , I would advise all people , whether sister or brother , old or young , who chance to have but one eye amongst them , to cultivate forbearance , and not all insist upon peep through it at once .
Quicksilver and Perseus , in the mean time , be make the best of their way in quest of the Nymphs .
The old dame have give them such particular direction , that they be not long in find them out .
They prove to be very different person from Nightmare Shakejoint , and Scarecrow ; for , instead of be old , they be young and beautiful ; and instead of one eye amongst the sisterhood , each Nymph have two exceedingly bright eye of her own , with which she look very kindly at Perseus .
They seem to be acquaint with Quicksilver ; and when he tell them the adventure which Perseus have undertake , they make no difficulty about give him the valuable article that be in their custody .
In the first place , they bring out what appear to be a small purse , make of deer-skin , and curiously embroider , and bid him be sure and keep it safe .
This be the magic wallet .
The Nymphs next produce a pair of shoe , or slipper , or sandal , with a nice little pair of wing at the heel of each .
`` Put them on , Perseus , '' say Quicksilver .
`` You will find yourself as light-heeled a you can desire , for the remainder of our journey . ''
So Perseus proceed to put one of the slipper on , while he lay the other on the ground by his side .
Unexpectedly , however , this other slipper spread it wing , flutter up off the ground , and would probably have fly away , if Quicksilver have not make a leap , and luckily catch it in the air .
`` Be more careful , '' say he , a he give it back to Perseus .
`` It would frighten the bird , up aloft , if they should see a fly slipper amongst them . ''
When Perseus have get on both of these wonderful slipper , he be altogether too buoyant to tread on earth .
Making a step or two , lo and behold !
upward he popt into the air , high above the head of Quicksilver and the Nymphs , and find it very difficult to clamber down again .
Winged slipper , and all such high-flying contrivance , be seldom quite easy to manage , until one grow a little accustomed to them .
Quicksilver laugh at his companion 's involuntary activity , and tell him that he must not be in so desperate a hurry , but must wait for the invisible helmet .
The good-natured Nymphs have the helmet , with it dark tuft of wave plume , all in readiness to put upon his head .
And now there happen about as wonderful an incident a anything that I have yet tell you .
The instant before the helmet be put on , there stood Perseus , a beautiful young man , with golden ringlet and rosy cheek , the crook sword by his side , and the brightly polish shield upon his arm , -- a figure that seem all make up of courage , sprightliness , and glorious light .
But when the helmet have descend over his white brow , there be no longer any Perseus to be see !
Nothing but empty air !
Even the helmet , that cover him with it invisibility , have vanish !
`` Where be you , Perseus ? ''
ask Quicksilver .
`` Why , here , to be sure ! ''
answer Perseus , very quietly , although his voice seem to come out of the transparent atmosphere .
`` Just where I be a moment ago .
Do n't you see me ? ''
`` No , indeed ! ''
answer his friend .
`` You be hide under the helmet .
But , if I can not see you , neither can the Gorgons .
Follow me , therefore , and we will try your dexterity in use the winged slipper . ''
With these word , Quicksilver 's cap spread it wing , a if his head be about to fly away from his shoulder ; but his whole figure rise lightly into the air , and Perseus follow .
By the time they have ascend a few hundred foot , the young man begin to feel what a delightful thing it be to leave the dull earth so far beneath him , and to be able to flit about like a bird .
It be now deep night .
Perseus look upward , and saw the round , bright , silvery moon , and think that he should desire nothing good than to soar up thither , and spend his life there .
Then he look downward again , and saw the earth , with it sea , and lake , and the silver course of it river , and it snowy mountain-peaks , and the breadth of it field , and the dark cluster of it wood , and it city of white marble ; and , with the moonshine sleeping over the whole scene , it be as beautiful a the moon or any star could be .
And , among other object , he saw the island of Seriplius , where his dear mother be .
Sometimes , he and Quicksilver approach a cloud , that , at a distance , look a if it be make of fleecy silver ; although , when they plunge into it , they find themselves chill and moisten with gray mist .
So swift be their flight , however , that , in an instant , they emerge from the cloud into the moonlight again .
Once , a high-soaring eagle fly right against the invisible Perseus .
The brave sight be the meteor , that gleam suddenly out , a if a bonfire have be kindle in the sky , and make the moonshine pale for as much a a hundred mile around them .
As the two companion fly onward , Perseus fancy that he could hear the rustle of a garment close by his side ; and it be on the side opposite to the one where he behold Quicksilver , yet only Quicksilver be visible .
`` Whose garment be this , '' inquire Perseus , `` that keep rustle close beside me , in the breeze ? ''
`` O , it be my sister 's ! ''
answer Quicksilver .
`` She be come along with u , a I tell you she would .
We could do nothing without the help of my sister .
You have no idea how wise she be .
She have such eye , too !
Why , she can see you , at this moment , just as distinctly a if you be not invisible ; and I 'll venture to say , she will be the first to discover the Gorgons . ''
By this time , in their swift voyage through the air , they have come within sight of the great ocean , and be soon fly over it .
Far beneath them , the wave toss themselves tumultuously in mid-sea , or roll a white surf-line upon the long beach , or foam against the rocky cliff , with a roar that be thunderous , in the low world ; although it become a gentle murmur , like the voice of a baby half asleep , before it reach the ear of Perseus .
Just then a voice spoke in the air close by him .
It seem to be a woman 's voice , and be melodious , though not exactly what might be call sweet , but grave and mild .
`` Perseus , '' say the voice , `` there be the Gorgons . ''
`` Where ? ''
exclaim Perseus .
`` I can not see them . ''
`` On the shore of that island beneath you , '' reply the voice .
`` A pebble , drop from your hand , would strike in the midst of them . ''
`` I tell you she would be the first to discover them , '' say Quicksilver to Perseus .
`` And there they be ! ''
Straight downward , two or three thousand foot below him , Perseus perceive a small island , with the sea break into white foam all around it rocky shore , except on one side , where there be a beach of snowy sand .
He descend towards it , and , look earnestly at a cluster or heap of brightness , at the foot of a precipice of black rock , behold , there be the terrible Gorgons !
They lay fast asleep , soothe by the thunder of the sea ; for it require a tumult that would have deafen everybody else to lull such fierce creature into slumber .
The moonlight glisten on their steely scale , and on their golden wing , which droop idly over the sand .
Their brazen claw , horrible to look at , be thrust out , and clutch the wave-beaten fragment of rock , while the sleep Gorgons dreamed of tear some poor mortal all to piece .
The snake that serve them instead of hair seem likewise to be asleep ; although , now and then , one would writhe , and lift it head , and thrust out it forked tongue , emit a drowsy hiss , and then let itself subside among it sister snake .
The Gorgons be more like an awful , gigantic kind of insect , -- immense , golden-winged beetle , or dragon-flies , or thing of that sort , -- at once ugly and beautiful , -- than like anything else ; only that they be a thousand and a million time a big .
And , with all this , there be something partly human about them , too .
Luckily for Perseus , their face be completely hide from him by the posture in which they lay ; for , have he but look one instant at them , he would have fall heavily out of the air , an image of senseless stone .
`` Now , '' whisper Quicksilver , a he hover by the side of Perseus , -- `` now be your time to do the deed !
Be quick ; for , if one of the Gorgons should awake , you be too late ! ''
`` Which shall I strike at ? ''
ask Perseus , draw his sword and descend a little low .
`` They all three look alike .
All three have snaky lock .
Which of the three be Medusa ? ''
It must be understood that Medusa be the only one of these dragon-monsters whose head Perseus could possibly cut off .
As for the other two , let him have the sharp sword that ever be forge , and he might have hack away by the hour together , without do there the least harm .
`` Be cautious , '' say the calm voice which have before speak to him .
`` One of the Gorgons be stir in her sleep , and be just about to turn over .
That be Medusa .
Do not look at her !
The sight would turn you to stone !
Look at the reflection of her face and figure in the bright mirror of your shield . ''
Perseus now understand Quicksilver 's motive for so earnestly exhort him to polish his shield .
In it surface he could safely look at the reflection of the Gorgon 's face .
And there it be , -- that terrible countenance , -- mirror in the brightness of the shield , with the moonlight fall over it , and display all it horror .
The snake , whose venomous nature could not altogether sleep , keep twist themselves over the forehead .
It be the fierce and most horrible face that ever be see or imagine , and yet with a strange , fearful , and savage kind of beauty in it .
The eye be close , and the Gorgon be still in a deep slumber ; but there be an unquiet expression disturb her feature , a if the monster be trouble with an ugly dream .
She gnash her white tusk , and dug into the sand with her brazen claw .
The snake , too , seem to feel Medusa 's dream , and to be make more restless by it .
They twin themselves into tumultuous knot , writhe fiercely , and uplift a hundred hissing head , without open their eye .
`` Now , now ! ''
whisper Quicksilver , who be grow impatient .
`` Make a dash at the monster ! ''
`` But be calm , '' say the grave , melodious voice , at the young man 's side .
`` Look in your shield , a you fly downward , and take care that you do not miss your first stroke . ''
Perseus fly cautiously downward , still keep his eye on Medusa 's face , a reflect in his shield .
The nearer he come , the more terrible do the snaky visage and metallic body of the monster grow .
At last , when he find himself hover over her within arm 's length , Perseus uplift his sword , while , at the same instant , each separate snake upon the Gorgon 's head stretch threateningly upward , and Medusa unclosed her eye .
But she awake too late .
The sword be sharp ; the stroke fell like a lightning-flash ; and the head of the wicked Medusa tumble from her body !
`` Admirably do ! ''
cry Quicksilver .
`` Make haste , and clap the head into your magic wallet . ''
To the astonishment of Perseus , the small , embroidered wallet , which he have hang about his neck , and which have hitherto be no big than a purse , grow all at once large enough to contain Medusa 's head .
As quick a thought , he snatch it up , with the snake still writhe upon it , and thrust it in .
`` Your task be do , '' say the calm voice .
`` Now fly ; for the other Gorgons will do their utmost to take vengeance for Medusa 's death . ''
It be , indeed , necessary to take flight ; for Perseus have not do the deed so quietly , but that the clash of his sword , and the hissing of the snake , and the thump of Medusa 's head a it tumble upon the sea-beaten sand , awake the other two monster .
There they sit , for an instant , sleepily rub their eye with their brazen finger , while all the snake on their head rear themselves on end with surprise , and with venomous malice against they know not what .
But when the Gorgons saw the scaly carcass of Medusa , headless , and her golden wing all ruffle , and half spread out on the sand , it be really awful to hear what yell and screech they set up .
And then the snake !
They send forth a hundred-fold hiss , with one consent , and Medusa 's snake answer them out of the magic wallet .
No sooner be the Gorgons broad awake , than they hurtle upward into the air , brandish their brass talon , gnash their horrible tusk , and flap their huge wing so wildly , that some of the golden feather be shake out , and float down upon the shore .
And there , perhaps , those very feather he scatter , till this day .
Up rise the Gorgons , a I tell you , star horribly about , in hope of turn somebody to stone .
Had Perseus look them in the face , or have he fall into their clutch , his poor mother would never have kiss her boy again !
But he take good care to turn his eye another way ; and , a he wear the helmet of invisibility , the Gorgons know not in what direction to follow him ; nor do he fail to make the best use of the winged slipper , by soar upward a perpendicular mile or so .
At that height , when the scream of those abominable creature sound faintly beneath him , he make a straight course for the island of Seriphus , in order to carry Medusa 's head to King Polydectes .
I have no time to tell you of several marvellous thing that befall Perseus , on his way homeward ; such a his kill a hideous sea-monster , just a it be on the point of devour a beautiful maiden ; nor how he change an enormous giant into a mountain of stone , merely by show him the head of the Gorgon .
If you doubt this latter story , you may make a voyage to Africa , some day or other , and see the very mountain , which be still know by the ancient giant 's name .
Finally , our brave Perseus arrive at the island , where he expect to see his dear mother .
But , during his absence , the wicked king have treat Danae so very ill , that she be compel to make her escape , and have take refuge in a temple , where some good old priest be extremely kind to her .
These praiseworthy priest , and the kind-hearted fisherman , who have first show hospitality to Danae and little Perseus when he find them afloat in the chest , seem to have be the only person on the island who care about do right .
All the rest of the people , as well a King Polydectes himself , be remarkably ill-behaved , and deserve no good destiny than that which be now to happen .
Not find his mother at home , Perseus go straight to the palace and be immediately ushered into the presence of the king .
Polydectes be by no mean rejoice to see him ; for he have felt almost certain , in his own evil mind , that the Gorgons would have tear the poor young man to piece , and have eat him up , out of the way .
However , see him safely return , he put the best face he could upon the matter and ask Perseus how he have succeed .
`` Have you perform your promise ? ''
inquire he .
`` Have you bring me the head of Medusa with the snaky lock ?
If not , young man , it will cost you dear ; for I must have a bridal present for the beautiful Princess Hippodamia , and there be nothing else that she would admire so much . ''
`` Yes , please your Majesty , '' answer Perseus , in a quiet way , a if it be no very wonderful deed for such a young man a he to perform .
`` I have bring you the Gorgon 's head , snaky lock and all ! ''
`` Indeed !
Pray let me see it , '' quoth King Polydectes .
`` It must be a very curious spectacle , if all that traveller tell about it be true ! ''
`` Your Majesty be in the right , '' reply Perseus .
`` It be really an object that will be pretty certain to fix the regard of all who look at it .
And , if your Majesty think fit , I would suggest that a holiday be proclaim , and that all your Majesty 's subject be summon to behold this wonderful curiosity .
Few of them , I imagine , have see a Gorgon 's head before , and perhaps never may again ! ''
The king well know that his subject be an idle set of reprobate , and very fond of sight-seeing , a idle person usually be .
So he take the young man 's advice , and send out herald and messenger , in all direction , to blow the trumpet at the street-corners , and in the market-places , and wherever two road meet , and summon everybody to court .
Thither , accordingly , come a great multitude of good-for-nothing vagabond , all of whom , out of pure love of mischief , would have be glad if Perseus have meet with some ill-hap , in his encounter with the Gorgons .
If there be any good people in the island -LRB- a I really hope there may have be , although the story tell nothing about any such -RRB- , they stay quietly at home , mind their own business , and take care of their little child .
Most of the inhabitant , at all event , run as fast a they could to the palace , and shove , and push , and elbow one another , in their eagerness to get near a balcony , on which Perseus show himself , hold the embroidered wallet in his hand .
On a platform , within full view of the balcony , sit the mighty King Polydectes , amid his evil counsellor , and with his flatter courtier in a semicircle round about him .
Monarch , counsellor , courtier , and subject , all gaze eagerly towards Perseus .
`` Show u the head !
Show u the head ! ''
shout the people ; and there be a fierceness in their cry a if they would tear Perseus to piece , unless he should satisfy them with what he have to show .
`` Show u the head of Medusa with the snaky lock ! ''
A feeling of sorrow and pity come over the youthful Perseus .
`` O King Polydectes , '' cry he , `` and ye many people , I be very loath to show you the Gorgon 's head ! ''
`` Ah , the villain and coward ! ''
yell the people , more fiercely than before .
`` He be make game of u !
He have no Gorgon 's head !
Show u the head , if you have it , or we will take your own head for a football ! ''
The evil counsellor whisper bad advice in the king 's ear ; the courtier murmur , with one consent , that Perseus have show disrespect to their royal lord and master ; and the great King Polydectes himself wave his hand , and order him , with the stern , deep voice of authority , on his peril , to produce the bead .
`` Show me the Gorgon 's head , or I will cut off your own ! ''
And Perseus sigh .
`` This instant , '' repeat Polydectes , `` or you die ! ''
`` Behold it , then ! ''
cry Perseus , in a voice like the blast of a trumpet .
And , suddenly hold up the head , not an eyelid have time to wink before the wicked King Polydectes , his evil counsellor , and all his fierce subject be no longer anything but the mere image of a monarch and his people .
They be all fix , forever , in the look and attitude of that moment !
At the first glimpse of the terrible head of Medusa , they whiten into marble !
And Perseus thrust the head back into his wallet , and go to tell his dear mother that she need no longer be afraid of the wicked King Polydectes .
TANGLEWOOD PORCH .
AFTER THE STORY .
`` Is not that a very fine story ? ''
ask Eustace .
`` O yes , yes ! ''
cry Cowslip , clap her hand .
`` And those funny old woman , with only one eye amongst them !
I never heard of anything so strange . ''
`` As to their one tooth , which they shift about , '' observe Primrose , `` there be nothing so very wonderful in that .
I suppose it be a false tooth .
But think of your turn Mercury into Quicksilver , and talk about his sister !
You be too ridiculous ! ''
`` And be she not his sister ? ''
ask Eustace Bright .
`` If I have think of it sooner , I would have describe her a a maiden lady , who keep a pet owl ! ''
`` Well , at any rate , '' say Primrose , `` your story seem to have drive away the mist . ''
And , indeed , while the tale be go forward , the vapor have be quite exhale from the landscape .
A scene be now disclose which the spectator might almost fancy a have be create since they have last look in the direction where it lay .
About half a mile distant , in the lap of the valley , now appear a beautiful lake , which reflect a perfect image of it own wooded bank , and of the summit of the more distant hill .
It gleam in glassy tranquillity , without the trace of a winged breeze on any part of it bosom .
Beyond it farther shore be Monument Mountain , in a recumbent position , stretch almost across the valley .
Eustace Bright compare it to a huge , headless sphinx , wrap in a Persian shawl ; and , indeed , so rich and diversify be the autumnal foliage of it wood , that the simile of the shawl be by no mean too high-colored for the reality .
In the low ground , between Tanglewood and the lake , the clump of tree and border of woodland be chiefly golden-leaved or dusky brown , a have suffer more from frost than the foliage on the hillside .
Over all this scene there be a genial sunshine , intermingle with a slight haze , which make it unspeakably soft and tender .
O , what a day of Indian summer be it go to be !
The child snatch their basket , and set forth , with hop , skip , and jump , and all sort of frisk and gambol ; while Cousin Eustace prove his fitness to preside over the party , by outdo all their antic , and perform several new caper , which none of them could ever hope to imitate .
Behind go a good old dog , whose name be Ben .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Lily's_Quest_ ( From_ '' Twice_Told_Tales '' ) .txt.out
Two lover , once upon a time , have plan a little summer-house , in the form of an antique temple , which it be their purpose to consecrate to all manner of refined and innocent enjoyment .
There they would hold pleasant intercourse with one another , and the circle of their familiar friend ; there they would give festival of delicious fruit ; there they would hear lightsome music , intermingle with the strain of pathos which make joy more sweet ; there they would read poetry and fiction , and permit their own mind to flit away in daydream and romance ; there , in short , -- for why should we shape out the vague sunshine of their hope ?
-- there all pure delight be to cluster like rose among the pillar of the edifice , and blossom ever new and spontaneously .
So , one breezy and cloudless afternoon , Adam Forrester and Lilias Fay set out upon a ramble over the wide estate which they be to possess together , seek a proper site for their Temple of Happiness .
They be themselves a fair and happy spectacle , fit priest and priestess for such a shrine ; although , make poetry of the pretty name of Lilias , Adam Forrester be wont to call her LILY , because her form be a fragile , and her cheek almost a pale .
As they pass , hand in hand , down the avenue of droop elm , that lead from the portal of Lilies Fay 's paternal mansion , they seem to glance like winged creature through the strip of sunshine , and to scatter brightness where the deep shadow fell .
But , set forth at the same time with this youthful pair , there be a dismal figure , wrap in a black velvet cloak that might have be make of a coffin pall , and with a sombre hat , such a mourner wear , droop it broad brim over his heavy brow .
Glancing behind them , the lover well knew who it be that follow , but wish from their heart that he have be elsewhere , a be a companion so strangely unsuited to their joyous errand .
It be a near relative of Lilies Fay , an old man by the name of Walter Gascoigne , who have long labor under the burden of a melancholy spirit , which be sometimes madden into absolute insanity , and always have a tinge of it .
What a contrast between the young pilgrim of bliss and their unbidden associate !
They look a if mould of Heaven 's sunshine , and he of earth 's gloomy shade ; they flit along like Hope and Joy , roam hand in hand through life ; while his darksome figure stalk behind , a type of all the woeful influence which life could fling upon them .
But the three have not go far , when they reach a spot that please the gentle Lily , and she pause .
`` What sweeter place shall we find than this ? ''
say she .
`` Why should we seek farther for the site of our Temple ? ''
It be indeed a delightful spot of earth , though undistinguished by any very prominent beauty , be merely a nook in the shelter of a hill , with the prospect of a distant lake in one direction , and of a church-spire in another .
There be vista and pathway lead onward and onward into the green woodland , and vanish away in the glimmering shade .
The Temple , if erect here , would look towards the west : so that the lover could shape all sort of magnificent dream out of the purple , violet , and gold of the sunset sky ; and few of their anticipated pleasure be dear than this sport of fantasy .
`` Yes , '' say Adam Forrester , `` we might seek all day , and find no lovely spot .
We will build our Temple here . ''
But their sad old companion , who have take his stand on the very site which they propose to cover with a marble floor , shake his head and frown ; and the young man and the Lily deem it almost enough to blight the spot , and desecrate it for their airy Temple , that his dismal figure have throw it shadow there .
He point to some scattered stone , the remnant of a former structure , and to flower such a young girl delight to nurse in their garden , but which have now relapse into the wild simplicity of nature .
`` Not here ! ''
cry old Walter Gascoigne .
`` Here , long ago , other mortal build their Temple of Happiness .
Seek another site for yours ! ''
`` What ! ''
exclaim Lilias Fay .
`` Have any ever plan such a Temple , save ourselves ? ''
`` Poor child ! ''
say her gloomy kinsman .
`` In one shape or other , every mortal have dream your dream . ''
Then he tell the lover , how -- not , indeed , an antique Temple -- but a dwelling have once stand there , and that a dark-clad guest have dwell among it inmate , sit forever at the fireside , and poison all their household mirth .
Under this type , Adam Forrester and Lilias saw that the old man spake of Sorrow .
He tell of nothing that might not be record in the history of almost every household ; and yet his hearer felt a if no sunshine ought to fall upon a spot where human grief have leave so deep a stain ; or , at least , that no joyous Temple should be build there .
`` This be very sad , '' say the Lily ; sigh .
`` Well , there be lovely spot than this , '' say Adam Forrester , soothingly , -- `` spot which sorrow have not blight . ''
So they hasten away , and the melancholy Gascoigne follow them , look a if he have gather up all the gloom of the deserted spot , and be hear it a a burden of inestimable treasure .
But still they ramble on , and soon find themselves in a rocky dell , through the midst of which run a streamlet , with ripple , and foam , and a continual voice of inarticulate joy .
It be a wild retreat , wall on either side with gray precipice , which would have frown somewhat too sternly , have not a profusion of green shrubbery root itself into their crevice , and wreathe gladsome foliage around their solemn brow .
But the chief joy of the dell be in the little stream , which seem like the presence of a blissful child , with nothing earthly to do save to babble merrily and disport itself , and make every living soul it playfellow , and throw the sunny gleam of it spirit upon all .
`` Here , here be the spot ! ''
cry the two lover with one voice , a they reach a level space on the brink of a small cascade .
`` This glen be make on purpose for our Temple ! ''
`` And the glad song of the brook will be always in our ear , '' say Lilias Fay .
`` And it long melody shall sing the bliss of our lifetime , '' say Adam Forrester .
`` Ye must build no Temple here ! ''
murmur their dismal companion .
And there again be the old lunatic , stand just on the spot where they mean to rear their lightsome dome , and look like the embodied symbol of some great woe , that , in forgotten day , have happen there .
And , ala !
there have be woe , nor that alone .
A young man , more than a hundred year before , have lure hither a girl that love him , and on this spot have murder her , and wash his bloody hand in the stream which sing so merrily .
And ever since , the victim 's death-shrieks be often hear to echo between the cliff .
`` And see ! ''
cry old Gascoigne , `` be the stream yet pure from the stain of the murderer 's hand ? ''
`` Methinks it have a tinge of blood , '' faintly answer the Lily ; and be as slight a the gossamer , she tremble and clung to her lover 's arm , whispering , `` let u flee from this dreadful vale ! ''
`` Come , then , '' say Adam Forrester , as cheerily a he could ; `` we shall soon find a happy spot . ''
They set forth again , young Pilgrims on that quest which million -- which every child of Earth -- have try in turn .
And be the Lily and her lover to be more fortunate than all those million ?
For a long time , it seem not so .
The dismal shape of the old lunatic still glide behind them ; and for every spot that look lovely in their eye , he have some legend of human wrong or suffering , so miserably sad , that his auditor could never afterwards connect the idea of joy with the place where it have happen .
Here , a heart-broken woman , kneel to her child , have be spurn from his foot ; here , a desolate old creature have pray to the Evil One , and have receive a fiendish malignity of soul , in answer to her prayer ; here , a new-born infant , sweet blossom of life , have be find dead , with the impress of it mother 's finger round it throat ; and here , under a shattered oak , two lover have be stricken by lightning , and fell blacken corps in each other 's arm .
The dreary Gascoigne have a gift to know whatever evil and lamentable thing have stain the bosom of Mother Earth ; and when his funereal voice have tell the tale , it appear like a prophecy of future woe , as well a a tradition of the past .
And now , by their sad demeanor , you would have fancy that the pilgrim lover be seek , not a temple of earthly joy , but a tomb for themselves and their posterity .
`` Where in this world , '' exclaim Adam Forrester , despondingly , `` shall we build our Temple of Happiness ? ''
`` Where in this world , indeed ! ''
repeat Lilias Fay ; and be faint and weary , the more so by the heaviness of her heart , the Lily droop her head and sit down on the summit of a knoll , repeating , `` Where in this world shall we build our Temple ? ''
`` Ah !
have you already ask yourselves that question ? ''
say their companion , his shaded feature grow even gloomier with the smile that dwell on them ; `` yet there be a place , even in this world , where ye may build it . ''
While the old man speak , Adam Forrester and Lilias have carelessly throw their eye around , and perceive that the spot where they have chance to pause possess a quiet charm , which be well enough adapt to their present mood of mind .
It be a small rise of ground , with a certain regularity of shape , that have perhaps be bestow by art ; and a group of tree , which almost surround it , throw their pensive shadow across and far beyond , although some softened glory of the sunshine find it way there .
The ancestral mansion , wherein the lover would dwell together , appear on one side , and the ivied church , where they be to worship , on another .
Happening to cast their eye on the ground , they smile , yet with a sense of wonder , to see that a pale lily be grow at their foot .
`` We will build our Temple here , '' say they , simultaneously , and with an indescribable conviction , that they have at last find the very spot .
Yet , while they utter this exclamation , the young man and the Lily turn an apprehensive glance at their dreary associate , deem it hardly possible , that some tale of earthly affliction should not make those precinct loathsome , a in every former case .
The old man stand just behind them , so a to form the chief figure in the group , with his sable cloak muffle the low part of his visage , and his sombre list overshadow his brow .
But he give no word of dissent from their purpose ; and an inscrutable smile be accept by the lover a a token that here have be no footprint of guilt or sorrow , to desecrate the site of their Temple of Happiness .
In a little time longer , while summer be still in it prime , the fairy structure of the Temple arose on the summit of the knoll , amid the solemn shadow of the tree , yet often gladden with bright sunshine .
It be build of white marble , with slender and graceful pillar , support a vaulted dome ; and beneath the centre of this dome , upon a pedestal , be a slab of dark-veined marble , on which book and music might be strew .
But there be a fantasy among the people of the neighborhood , that the edifice be plan after an ancient mausoleum , and be intend for a tomb , and that the central slab of dark-veined marble be to be inscribe with the name of buried one .
They doubt , too , whether the form of Lilias Fay could appertain to a creature of this earth , be so very delicate , and grow every day more fragile , so that she look a if the summer breeze should snatch her up , and waft her heavenward .
But still she watch the daily growth of the Temple ; and so do old Walter Gascoigne , who now make that spot his continual haunt , lean whole hour together on his staff , and give a deep attention to the work a though it have be indeed a tomb .
In due time it be finish , and a day appoint for a simple rite of dedication .
On the precede evening , after Adam Forrester have take leave of his mistress , he look back towards the portal of her dwelling , and felt a strange thrill of fear ; for he imagine that , a the set sunbeam fade from her figure , she be exhale away , and that something of her ethereal substance be withdraw , with each lessen gleam of light .
With his farewell glance , a shadow have fall over the portal , and Lilias be invisible .
His forebode spirit deem it an omen at the time ; and so it prove ; for the sweet earthly form , by which the Lily bad be manifest to the world , be find lifeless , the next morning , in the Temple , with her head rest on her arm , which be fold upon the slab of dark-veined marble .
The chill wind of the earth have long since breathe a blight into this beautiful flower , so that a loving hand have now transplant it , to blossom brightly in the garden of Paradise .
But , ala for the Temple of Happiness !
In his unutterable grief , Adam Forrester have no purpose more at heart than to convert this Temple of many delightful hope into a tomb , and bury his dead mistress there .
And to !
a wonder !
Digging a grave beneath the Temple 's marble floor , the sexton find no virgin earth , such a be meet to receive the maiden 's dust , but an ancient sepulchre , in which be treasure up the bone of generation that have die long ago .
Among those forgotten ancestor be the Lily to be lay .
And when the funeral procession bring Lilias thither in her coffin , they behold old Walter Gascoigne stand beneath the dome of the Temple , with his cloak of pall , and face of dark gloom ; and wherever that figure might take it stand , the spot would seem a sepulchre .
He watch the mourner a they lower the coffin down .
`` And so , '' say he to Adam Forrester , with the strange smile in which his insanity be wont to gleam forth , `` you have find no good foundation for your happiness than on a grave ! ''
But a the Shadow of Affliction speak , a vision of Hope and Joy have it birth in Adam 's mind , even from the old man 's taunting word ; for then he know what be betoken by the parable in which the Lily and himself have act ; and the mystery of Life and Death be open to him .
`` Joy !
joy ! ''
he cry , throw his arm towards Heaven , `` on a grave be the site of our Temple ; and now our happiness be for Eternity ! ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Miraculous_Pitcher.txt.out
INTRODUCTORY TO `` THE MIRACULOUS PITCHER '' And when , and where , do you think we find the child next ?
No longer in the winter-time , but in the merry month of May .
No longer in Tanglewood play-room , or at Tanglewood fireside , but more than half-way up a monstrous hill , or a mountain , a perhaps it would be good please to have u call it .
They have set out from home with the mighty purpose of climb this high hill , even to the very tiptop of it bald head .
To be sure , it be not quite so high a Chimborazo , or Mont Blanc , and be even a good deal low than old Graylock .
But , at any rate , it be high than a thousand ant-hillocks , or a million of mole hill ; and , when measure by the short stride of little child , might be reckon a very respectable mountain .
And be Cousin Eustace with the party ?
Of that you may be certain ; else how could the book go on a step far ?
He be now in the middle of the spring vacation , and look pretty much a we saw him four or five month ago , except that , if you gaze quite closely at his upper lip , you could discern the funny little bit of a mustache upon it .
Setting aside this mark of mature manhood , you might have consider Cousin Eustace just as much a boy a when you first become acquaint with him .
He be a merry , a playful , a good-humored , a light of foot and of spirit , and equally a favorite with the little folk , a he have always be .
This expedition up the mountain be entirely of his contrivance .
All the way up the steep ascent , he have encourage the elder child with his cheerful voice ; and when Dandelion , Cowslip , and Squash-blossom grow weary , he have lug them along , alternately , on his back .
In this manner , they have pass through the orchard and pasture on the low part of the hill , and have reach the wood , which extend thence towards it bare summit .
The month of May , thus far , have be more amiable than it often be , and this be a sweet and genial a day a the heart of man or child could wish .
In their progress up the hill , the small people have find enough of violet , blue and white , and some that be as golden a if they have the touch of Midas on them .
That sociable of flower , the little Housatonia , be very abundant .
It be a flower that never live alone , but which love it own kind , and be always fond of dwell with a great many friend and relatives around it .
Sometimes you see a family of them , cover a space no big than the palm of your hand ; and sometimes a large community , whiten a whole tract of pasture , and all keep one another in cheerful heart and life .
Within the verge of the wood there be columbine , look more pale than red , because they be so modest , and have think proper to seclude themselves too anxiously from the sun .
There be wild geranium , too , and a thousand white blossom of the strawberry .
The trailing arbutus be not yet quite out of bloom ; but it hide it precious flower under the last year 's withered forest-leaves , as carefully a a mother-bird hide it little young one .
It know , I suppose , how beautiful and sweet-scented they be .
So cunning be their concealment , that the child sometimes smelt the delicate richness of their perfume , before they know whence it proceed .
Amid so much new life , it be strange and truly pitiful to behold , here and there , in the field and pasture , the hoary periwig of dandelion that have already go to seed .
They have do with summer before the summer come .
Within those small globe of winged seed it be autumn now !
Well , but we must not waste our valuable page with any more talk about the spring-time and wild flower .
There be something , we hope , more interesting to be talk about .
If you look at the group of child , you may see them all gather around Eustace Bright , who , sit on the stump of a tree , seem to be just begin a story .
The fact be , the young part of the troop have find out that it take rather too many of their short stride to measure the long ascent of the hill .
Cousin Eustace , therefore , have decide to leave Sweet Fern , Cowslip , Squash-blossom , and Dandelion , at this point , midway up , until the return of the rest of the party from the summit .
And because they complain a little , and do not quite like to stay behind , he give them some apple out of his pocket , and propose to tell them a very pretty story .
Hereupon they brighten up , and change their grieved look into the broad kind of smile .
As for the story , I be there to hear it , hide behind a bush , and shall tell it over to you in the page that come next .
THE MIRACULOUS PITCHER .
One evening , in time long ago , old Philemon and his old wife Baucis sit at their cottage-door , enjoy the cahn and beautiful sunset .
They have already eat their frugal supper , and intend now to spend a quiet hour or two before bedtime .
So they talk together about their garden , and their cow , and their bee , and their grapevine , which clamber over the cottage-wall , and on which the grape be begin to turn purple .
But the rude shout of child and the fierce barking of dog , in the village near at hand , grow louder and louder , until , at last , it be hardly possible for Baucis and Philemon to hear each other speak .
`` Ah , wife . ''
cried Philemon , `` I fear some poor traveller be seek hospitality among our neighbor yonder , and , instead of give him food and lodging , they have set their dog at him , a their custom be ! ''
`` Well-a-day ! ''
answer old Baucis , `` I do wish our neighbor felt a little more kindness for their fellow-creatures .
And only think of bring up their child in this naughty way , and pat them on the head when they fling stone at stranger ! ''
`` Those child will never come to any good , '' say Philemon , shake his white head .
`` To tell you the truth , wife , I should not wonder if some terrible thing be to happen to all the people in the village , unless they mend their manner .
But , a for you and me , so long a Providence affords u a crust of bread , let u be ready to give half to any poor , homeless stranger , that may come along and need it . ''
`` That 's right , husband ! ''
say Baucis .
`` So we will ! ''
These old folk , you must know , be quite poor , and have to work pretty hard for a living .
Old Philemon toil diligently in his garden , while Baucis be always busy with her distaff , or make a little butter and cheese with their cow 's milk , or do one thing and another about the cottage .
Their food be seldom anything but bread , milk , and vegetable , with sometimes a portion of honey from their beehive , and now and then a bunch of grape , that have ripen against the cottage-wall .
But they be two of the kind old people in the world , and would cheerfully have go without their dinner , any day , rather than refuse a slice of their brown loaf , a cup of new milk , and a spoonful of honey , to the weary traveller who might pause before their door .
They felt a if such guest have a sort of holiness , and that they ought , therefore , to treat them good and more bountifully than their own self .
Their cottage stand on a rise ground , at some short distance from a village , which lay in a hollow valley , that be about half a mile in breadth .
This valley , in past age , when the world be new , have probably be the bed of a lake .
There , fish have glide to and fro in the depth , and water-weeds have grow along the margin , and tree and hill have see their reflected image in the broad , and peaceful mirror .
But , a the water subside , men have cultivate the soil , and build house on it , so that it be now a fertile spot , and bore no trace of the ancient lake , except a very small brook , which meander through the midst of the village , and supply the inhabitant with water .
The valley have be dry land so long , that oak have spring up , and grown great and high , and perish with old age , and be succeed by others ; a tall and stately a the first .
Never be there a prettier or more fruitful valley .
The very sight of the plenty around them should have make the inhabitant kind and gentle , and ready to show their gratitude to Providence by do good to their fellow-creatures .
But , we be sorry to say , the people of this lovely village be not worthy to dwell in a spot on which Heaven have smile so beneficently .
They be a very selfish and hard-hearted people , and have no pity for the poor , nor sympathy with the homeless .
They would only have laugh , have anybody tell them that human being owe a debt of love to one another , because there be no other method of pay the debt of love and care which all of u owe to Providence .
You will hardly believe what I be go to tell you .
These naughty people teach their child to be no good than themselves , and use to clap their hand , by way of encouragement , when they saw the little boy and girl run after some poor stranger , shout at his heel , and pelt hum with stone .
They keep large and fierce dog , and whenever a traveller venture to show himself in the village street , this pack of disagreeable cur scamper to meet him , bark , snarl , and show their teeth .
Then they would seize him by his leg , or by his clothes , just a it happen ; and if he be rag when he come , he be generally a pitiable object before he have time to run away .
This be a very terrible thing to poor traveller , a you may suppose , especially when they chance to be sick , or feeble , or lame , or old .
Such person -LRB- if they once know how badly these unkind people , and their unkind child and cur , be in the habit of behave -RRB- would go mile and mile out of their way , rather than try to pass through the village again .
What make the matter seem bad , if possible , be that when rich person come in their chariot , or rid on beautiful horse , with their servant in rich livery attend on them , nobody could be more civil and obsequious than the inhabitant of the village .
They would take off their hat , and make the humble bow you ever saw .
If the child be rude , they be pretty certain to get their ear box ; and a for the dog , if a single cur in the pack presume to yelp , his master instantly beat him with a club , and tie him up without any supper .
This would have be all very well , only it prove that the villager care much about the money that a stranger have in his pocket , and nothing whatever for the human soul , which live equally in the beggar and the prince .
So now you can understand why old Philemon speak so sorrowfully , when he hear the shout of the child and the barking of the dog , at the farther extremity of the village street .
There be a confused din , which last a good while , and seem to pass quite through the breadth of the valley .
`` I never hear the dog so loud ! ''
observe the good old man .
`` Nor the child so rude ! ''
answer his good old wife .
They sit shake their head , one to another , while the noise come nearer and nearer ; until , at the foot of the little eminence on which their cottage stand , they saw two traveller approach on foot .
Close behind them come the fierce dog , snarl at their very heel .
A little farther off , run a crowd of child , who send up shrill cry , and flung stone at the two stranger , with all their might .
Once or twice , the young of the two men -LRB- he be a slender and very active figure -RRB- turn about , and drive back the dog with a staff which he carry in his hand .
His companion , who be a very tall person , walk calmly along , a if disdain to notice either the naughty child , or the pack of cur , whose manner the child seem to imitate .
Both of the traveller be very humbly clad , and look a if they might not have money enough in their pocket to pay for a night 's lodging .
And this , I be afraid , be the reason why the villager have allow their child and dog to treat them so rudely .
`` Come , wife , '' say Philemon to Baucis , `` let u go and meet these poor people .
No doubt , they feel almost too heavy-hearted to climb the hill . ''
`` Go you and meet them , '' answer Baucis , `` while I make haste within door , and see whether we can get them anything for supper .
A comfortable bowl of bread and milk would do wonder towards raise their spirit . ''
Accordingly , she hasten into the cottage .
Philemon , on his part , go forward , and extend his hand with so hospitable an aspect that there be no need of say , what nevertheless he do say , in the hearty tone imaginable , -- `` Welcome , stranger !
welcome ! ''
`` Thank you ! ''
reply the younger of the two , in a lively kind of way , notwithstanding his weariness and trouble .
`` This be quite another greeting than we have meet with yonder , in the village .
Pray , why do you live in such a bad neighborhood ? ''
`` Ah ! ''
observe old Philemon , with a quiet and benign smile , `` Providence put me here , I hope , among other reason , in order that I may make you what amend I can for the inhospitality of my neighbor . ''
`` Well say , old father ! ''
cry the traveller , laughing ; `` and , if the truth must be tell , my companion and myself need some amends .
Those child -LRB- the little rascal ! -RRB-
have bespatter u finely with their mud-ball ; and one of the cur have tear my cloak , which be rag enough already .
But I take him across the muzzle with my staff ; and I think you may have hear him yelp , even thus far off . ''
Philemon be glad to see him in such good spirit ; nor , indeed , would you have fancy , by the traveller 's look and manner , that he be weary with a long day 's journey , besides be dishearten by rough treatment at the end of it .
He be dress in rather an odd way , with a sort of cap on his head , the brim of which stick out over both ear .
Though it be a summer evening , he wear a cloak , which he keep wrapt closely about him , perhaps because his under garment be shabby .
Philemen perceive , too , that he have on a singular pair of shoe ; but , a it be now grow dusk , and a the old man 's eyesight be none the sharp , he could not precisely tell in what the strangeness consist .
One thing , certainly , seem queer .
The traveller be so wonderfully light and active , that it appear a if his foot sometimes rise from the ground of their own accord , or could only be keep down by an effort .
`` I use to be light-footed , in my youth , '' say Philemen to the traveller .
`` But I always find my foot grow heavy towards nightfall . ''
`` There be nothing like a good staff to help one along , '' answer the stranger ; `` and I happen to have an excellent one , a you see . ''
This staff , in fact , be the oddest-looking staff that Philemon have ever behold .
It be make of olive-wood , and have something like a little pair of wing near the top .
Two snake , carve in the wood , be represent a twin themselves about the staff , and be so very skilfully execute that old Philemon -LRB- whose eye , you know , be get rather dim -RRB- almost think them alive , and that he could see them wriggle and twist .
`` A curious piece of work , sure enough ! ''
say he .
`` A staff with wing !
It would be an excellent kind of stick for a little boy to ride astride of ! ''
By this time , Philemon and his two guest have reach the cottage-door .
`` Friends , '' say the old man , `` sit down and rest yourselves here on this bench .
My good wife Baucis have go to see what you can have for supper .
We be poor folk ; but you shall be welcome to whatever we have in the cupboard . ''
The young stranger throw himself carelessly on the bench , let his staff fall , a he do so .
And here happen something rather marvellous , though trifle enough , too .
The staff seem to get up from the ground of it own accord , and , spread it little pair of wing , it half hopt , half flew , and lean itself against the wall of the cottage .
There it stand quite still , except that the snake continue to wriggle .
But , in my private opinion , old Philemon 's eyesight have be play him trick again .
Before he could ask any question , the elder stranger draw his attention from the wonderful staff , by speak to him .
`` Was there not , '' ask the stranger , in a remarkably deep tone of voice , `` a lake , in very ancient time , cover the spot where now stand yonder village ? ''
`` Not in my day , friend , '' answer Philemon ; `` and yet I be an old man , a you see .
There be always the field and meadow , just a they be now , and the old tree , and the little stream murmur through the midst of the valley .
My father , nor his father before him , ever saw it otherwise , so far a I know ; and doubtless it will still be the same , when old Philemon shall be go and forget ! ''
`` That be more than can be safely foretold , '' observe the stranger ; and there be something very stern in his deep voice .
He shake his head , too , so that his dark and heavy curl be shake with the movement , `` Since the inhabitant of yonder village have forget the affection and sympathy of their nature , it be well that the lake should be ripple over their dwelling again ! ''
The traveller look so stern , that Philemon be really almost frighten ; the more so , that , at his frown , the twilight seem suddenly to grow darker , and that , when he shake his head , there be a roll a of thunder in the air .
But , in a moment afterwards , the stranger 's face become so kindly and mild , that the old man quite forget his terror .
Nevertheless , he could not help feeling that this elder traveller must be no ordinary personage , although he happen now to be attire so humbly , and to be journey on foot .
Not that Philemon fancy him a prince in disguise , or any character of that sort ; but rather some exceedingly wise man , who go about the world in this poor garb , despise wealth and all worldly object , and seek everywhere to add a mite to his wisdom .
This idea appear the more probable , because , when Philemon raise his eye to the stranger 's face , he seem to see more thought there , in one look , than he could have study out in a lifetime .
While Baucis be get the supper , the traveller both begin to talk very sociably with Philemon .
The young , indeed , be extremely loquacious , and make such shrewd and witty remark , that the good old man continually burst out a-laughing , and pronounce him the merry fellow whom he have see for many a day .
`` Pray , my young friend , '' say he , a they grow familiar together , `` what may I call your name ? ''
`` Why , I be very nimble , a you see , '' answer the traveller .
`` So , if you call me Quicksilver , the name will fit tolerably well . ''
`` Quicksilver ?
Quicksilver ? ''
repeat Philemon , look in the traveller 's face , to see if he be make fun of him .
`` It be a very odd name !
And your companion there ?
Has he a strange a one ? ''
`` You must ask the thunder to tell it you ! ''
reply Quicksilver , put on a mysterious look .
`` No other voice be loud enough . ''
This remark , whether it be serious or in jest , might have cause Philemon to conceive a very great awe of the elder stranger , if , on venture to gaze at him , he have not behold so much beneficence in his visage ; But , undoubtedly , here be the grand figure that ever sit so humbly beside a cottage-door .
When the stranger converse , it be with gravity , and in such a way that Philemon felt irresistibly move to tell him everything which he have most at heart .
This be always the feeling that people have , when they meet with any one wise enough to comprehend all their good and evil , and to despise not a tittle of it .
But Philemon , simple and kind-hearted old man that he be , have not many secret to disclose .
He talk , however , quite garrulously , about the event of his past life , in the whole course of which he have never be a score of mile from this very spot .
His wife Baucis and himself have dwell in the cottage from their youth upward , earn their bread by honest labor , always poor , but still content .
He tell what excellent butter and cheese Baucis make , and how nice be the vegetable which he raise in his garden .
He say , too , that , because they love one another so very much , it be the wish of both that death might not separate them , but that they should die , a they have live , together .
As the stranger listen , a smile beam over his countenance , and make it expression as sweet a it be grand .
`` You be a good old man , '' say he to Philemon , `` and you have a good old wife to be your helpmeet .
It be fit that your wish be grant . ''
And it seem to Philemon , just then , a if the sunset cloud throw up a bright flash from the west , and kindle a sudden light in the sky .
Baucis have now get supper ready , and , come to the door , begin to make apology for the poor fare which she be force to set before her guest .
`` Had we know you be come , '' say she , `` my good man and myself would have go without a morsel , rather than you should lack a good supper .
But I take the most part of to-day 's milk to make cheese ; and our last loaf be already half eaten .
Ah me !
I never feel the sorrow of be poor , save when a poor traveller knock at our door . ''
`` All will be very well ; do not trouble yourself , my good dame , '' reply the elder stranger , kindly .
`` An honest , hearty welcome to a guest work miracle with the fare , and be capable of turn the coarse food to nectar and ambrosia . ''
`` A welcome you shall have , '' cry Baucis , `` and likewise a little honey that we happen to have leave , and a bunch of purple grape besides . ''
`` Why , Mother Baucis , it , be a feast ! ''
exclaim Quicksilver , laughing , `` an absolute feast !
and you shall see how bravely I will play my part at it !
I think I never felt hungrier in my life . ''
`` Mercy on u ! ''
whisper Baucis to her husband .
`` If the young man have such a terrible appetite , I be afraid there will not be half enough supper ! ''
They all go into the cottage .
And now , my little auditor , shall I tell you something that will make you open your eye very wide ?
It be really one of the odd circumstance in the whole story .
Quicksilver 's staff , you recollect , have set itself up against the wall of the cottage .
Well ; when it master enter the door , leave this wonderful staff behind , what should it do but immediately spread it little wing , and go hopping and flutter up the doorstep !
Tap , tap , go the staff , on the kitchen floor ; nor do it rest until it have stand itself on end , with the great gravity and decorum , beside Quicksilver 's chair .
Old Philemon , however , as well a his wife , be so take up in attend to their guest , that no notice be give to what the staff have be about .
As Baucis have say , there be but a scanty supper for two hungry traveller .
In the middle of the table be the remnant of a brown loaf , with a piece of cheese on one side of it , and a dish of honeycomb on the other .
There be a pretty good bunch of grape for each of the guest .
A moderately size earthen pitcher , nearly full of milk , stand at a corner of the board ; and when hand have fill two bowl , and set them before the stranger , only a little milk remain in the bottom of the pitcher .
Alas !
it be a very sad business , when a bountiful heart find itself pinch and squeeze among narrow circumstance .
Poor Baucis keep wish that she might starve for a week to come , if it be possible , by so do , to provide these hungry folk a more plentiful supper .
And , since the supper be so exceedingly small , she could not help wish that their appetite have not be quite so large .
Why , at their very first sit down , the traveller both drink off all the milk in their two bowl , at a draught .
`` A little more milk , kind Mother Baucis , if you please , '' say Quicksilver .
`` The day have be hot , and I be very much athirst . ''
`` Now , my dear people , '' answer Baucis , in great confusion , `` I be so sorry and ashamed !
But the truth be , there be hardly a drop more milk in the pitcher .
O husband !
husband !
why do n't we go without our supper ? ''
`` Why , it appear to me , '' cry Quicksilver , start up from table and take the pitcher by the handle , `` it really appear to me that matter be not quite so bad a you represent them .
Here be certainly more milk in the pitcher . ''
So say , and to the vast astonishment of Baucis , he proceed to fill , not only his own bowl , but his companion 's likewise , from the pitcher , that be suppose to be almost empty .
The good woman could scarcely believe her eye .
She have certainly pour out nearly all the milk , and have peep in afterwards , and see the bottom of the pitcher , a she set it down upon the table .
`` But I be old , '' think Baucis to herself , `` and apt to be forgetful .
I suppose I must have make a mistake .
At all event , the pitcher can not , help be empty now , after fill the bowl twice over . ''
`` What excellent milk ! ''
observe Quicksilver , after quaff the content of the second bowl .
`` Excuse me , my kind hostess , but I must really ask you for a little more . ''
Now Baucis have see , as plainly a she could see anything , that Quicksilver have turn the pitcher upside down , and consequently have pour out every drop of milk , in fill the last bowl .
Of course , there could not possibly be any left .
However , in order to let him know precisely how the case be , she lift the pitcher , and make a gesture a if pour milk into Quicksilver 's bowl , but without the remotest idea that any milk would stream forth .
What be her surprise , therefore , when such an abundant cascade fell bubble into the bowl , that it be immediately fill to the brim , and overflow upon the table !
The two snake that be twist about Quicksilver 's staff -LRB- but neither Baucis nor Philemon happen to observe this circumstance -RRB- stretch out their head , and begin to lap up the spilt milk .
And then what a delicious fragrance the milk have !
It seem a if Philemon 's only cow must have pasture , that day , on the rich herbage that could be find anywhere in the world .
I only wish that each of you , my beloved little soul , could have a bowl of such nice milk , at supper-time !
`` And now a slice of your brown loaf , Mother Baucis , '' say Quicksilver , `` and a little of that honey ! ''
Baucis cut him a slice , accordingly ; and though the loaf , when she and her husband ate of it , have be rather too dry and crusty to be palatable , it be now a light and moist a if but a few hour out of the oven .
Tasting a crumb , which have fall on the table , she find it more delicious than bread ever be before , and could hardly believe that it be a loaf of her own kneading and baking .
Yet , what other loaf could it possibly be ?
But , oh the honey !
I may just as well let it alone , without try to describe how exquisitely it smelt and look .
Its color be that of the pure and most transparent gold ; and it have the odor of a thousand flower ; but of such flower a never grow in an earthly garden , and to seek which the bee must have fly high above the cloud .
The wonder be , that , after alight on a flower-bed of so delicious fragrance and immortal bloom , they should have be content to fly down again to their hive in Philemon 's garden .
Never be such honey taste , see , or smelt .
The perfume float around the kitchen , and make it so delightful , that , have you close your eye , you would instantly have forget the low ceiling and smoky wall , and have fancy yourself in an arbor , with celestial honeysuckle creep over it .
Although good Mother Baucis be a simple old dame , she could not but think that there be something rather out of the common way , in all that have be go on .
So , after help the guest to bread and honey , and lay a bunch of grape by each of their plate , she sit down by Philemon , and tell him what she have see , in a whisper .
`` Did you ever hear the like ? ''
ask she .
`` No , I never do , '' answer Philemon , with a smile .
`` And I rather think , my dear old wife , you have be walk about in a sort of a dream .
If I have pour out the milk , I should have see through the business , at once .
There happen to be a little more in the pitcher than you think , -- that be all . ''
`` Ah , husband , '' say Baucis , `` say what you will , these be very uncommon people . ''
`` Well , well , '' reply Philemon , still smile , `` perhaps they be .
They certainly do look a if they have see well day ; and I be heartily glad to see them make so comfortable a supper . ''
Each of the guest have now take his bunch of grape upon his plate .
Baucis -LRB- who rub her eye , in order to see the more clearly -RRB- be of opinion that the cluster have grow large and rich , and that each separate grape seem to be on the point of burst with ripe juice .
It be entirely a mystery to her how such grape could ever have be produce from the old stunted vine that climb against the cottage-wall .
`` Very admirable grape these ! ''
observe Quicksilver , a he swallow one after another , without apparently diminish his cluster .
`` Pray , my good host , whence do you gather them ? ''
`` From my own vine , '' answer Philemon .
`` You may see one of it branch twist across the window , yonder .
But wife and I never think the grape very fine one . ''
`` I never taste well , '' say the guest .
`` Another cup of this delicious milk , if you please , and I shall then have sup good than a prince . ''
This time , old Philemon bestir himself , and take up the pitcher ; for he be curious to discover whether there be any reality in the marvel which Baucis have whisper to him .
He know that his good old wife be incapable of falsehood , and that she be seldom mistake in what she suppose to be true ; but this be so very singular a case , that he want to see into it with his own eye .
On take up the pitcher , therefore , he slyly peep into it , and be fully satisfy that it contain not so much a a single drop .
All at once , however , he behold a little white fountain , which gush up from the bottom of the pitcher , and speedily fill it to the brim with foaming and deliciously fragrant milk .
It be lucky that Philemon , in his surprise , do not drop the miraculous pitcher from his hand .
`` Who be ye , wonder-working stranger ? ''
cry he , even more bewildered than his wife have be .
`` Your guest , my good Philemon , and your friend , '' reply the elder traveller , in his mild , deep voice , that have something at once sweet and awe-inspiring in it .
`` Give me likewise a cup of the milk ; and may your pitcher never be empty for kind Baucis and yourself , any more than for the needy wayfarer ! ''
The supper be now over , the stranger request to be show to their place of repose .
The old people would gladly have talk with them a little long , and have express the wonder which they felt , and their delight at find the poor and meagre supper prove so much good and more abundant than they hop .
But the elder traveller have inspire them with such reverence , that they dare not ask him any question .
And when Philemon draw Quicksilver aside , and inquire how under the sun a fountain of milk could have get into air old earthen pitcher , this latter personage point to his staff .
`` There be the whole mystery of the affair , '' quoth Quicksilver ; `` and if you can make it out , I 'll thank you to let me know .
I ca n't tell what to make of my staff .
It be always play such odd trick a this ; sometimes get me a supper , and , quite as often , steal it away .
If I have any faith in such nonsense , I should say the stick be bewitch ! ''
He say no more , but look so slyly in their face , that they rather fancy he be laugh at them .
The magic staff go hop at his heel , a Quicksilver quit the room .
When leave alone , the good old couple spend some little time in conversation about the event of the evening , and then lay down on the floor , and fell fast asleep .
They have give up their sleeping-room to the guest , and have no other bed for themselves , save these plank , which I wish have be as soft a their own heart .
The old man and his wife be stir , betimes , in the morning , and the stranger likewise arose with the sun , and make their preparation to depart .
Philemon hospitably entreat them to remain a little long , until Baucis could milk the cow , and bake a cake upon the hearth , and , perhaps , find them a few fresh egg , for breakfast .
The guest , however , seem to think it good to accomplish a good part of their journey before the heat of the day should come on .
They , therefore , persist in set out immediately , but ask Philemon and Baucis to walk forth with them a short distance , and show them the road which they be to take .
So they all four issue from the cottage , chat together like old friend .
It be very remarkable indeed , how familiar the old couple insensibly grow with the elder traveller , and how their good and simple spirit melt into his , even a two drop of water would melt into the illimitable ocean .
And a for Quicksilver , with his keen , quick , laugh wit , he appear to discover every little thought that but peep into their mind , before they suspect it themselves .
They sometimes wish , it be true , that he have not be quite so quick-witted , and also that he would fling away his staff , which look so mysteriously mischievous , with the snake always writhe about it .
But then , again , Quicksilver show himself so very good-humored , that they would have be rejoice to keep him in their cottage , staff , snake , and all , every day , and the whole day long .
`` Ah me !
Well-a-day ! ''
exclaimed Philemon , when they have walk a little way from their door .
`` If our neighbor only know what a blessed thing it be to show hospitality to stranger , they would tie up all their dog , and never allow their child to fling another stone . ''
`` It be a sin and shame for them to behave so , -- that it be ! ''
cry good old Baucis , vehemently .
`` And I mean to go this very day , and tell some of then what naughty people they be ! ''
`` I fear , '' remark Quicksilver , slyly smiling , `` that you will find none of them at home . ''
The elder traveller 's brow , just then , assume such a grave , stern , and awful grandeur , yet serene withal , that neither Baucis nor Philemon dare to speak a word .
They gaze reverently into his face , a if they have be gaze at the sky .
`` When men do not feel towards the humble stranger a if he be a brother , '' say the traveller , in tone so deep that they sound like those of an organ , `` they be unworthy to exist on earth , which be create a the abode of a great human brotherhood ! ''
`` And , by the by , my dear old people , '' cry Quicksilver , with the lively look of fun and mischief in his eye , `` where be this same village that you talk about ?
On which side of u do it lie ?
Methinks I do not see it hereabouts . ''
Philemon and his wife turn towards the valley , where , at sunset , only the day before , they have see the meadow , the house , the garden , the clump of tree , the wide , green-margined street , with child play in it , and all the token of business , enjoyment , and prosperity .
But what be their astonishment !
There be no longer any appearance of a village !
Even the fertile vale , in the hollow of which it lay , have cease to have existence .
In it stead , they behold the broad , blue surface of a lake , which fill the great basin of the valley , from brim to brim , and reflect the surround bill in it bosom , with a tranquil an image a if it have be there ever since the creation of the world .
For an instant , the lake remain perfectly smooth .
Then , a little breeze spring up , and cause the water to dance , glitter , and sparkle in the early sunbeam , and to dash , with a pleasant rippling murmur , against the hither shore .
The lake seem so strangely familiar , that the old couple be greatly perplex , and felt a if they could only have be dream about a village have lain there .
But , the next moment , they remember the vanished dwelling , and the face and character of the inhabitant , far too distinctly for a dream .
The village have be there yesterday , and now be go !
`` Alas ! ''
cry these kind-hearted old people , `` what have become of our poor neighbor ? ''
`` They exist no longer a men and woman , '' say the elder traveller , in his grand and deep voice , while a roll of thunder seem to echo it at a distance .
`` There be neither use nor beauty in such a life a theirs : for they never soften or sweeten the hard lot of mortality by the exercise of kindly affection between man and man .
They retain no image of the good life in their bosom ; therefore , the lake , that be of old , have spread itself forth again , to reflect the sky ! ''
`` And a for those foolish people , '' say Quicksilver , with his mischievous smile , `` they be all transform to fish .
There need but little change , for they be already a scaly set of rascal , and the coldest-blooded being in existence .
So , kind Mother Baucis , whenever you or your husband have an appetite for a dish of broil trout , he can throw in a line , and pull out half a dozen of your old neighbor ! ''
`` Ah , '' cry Baucis , shuddering , `` I would not , for the world , put one of them on the gridiron ! ''
`` No , '' add Philemon , make a wry face , `` we could never relish them ! ''
`` As for you , good Philemon , '' continue the elder traveller , -- `` and you , kind Baucis , -- you , with your scanty mean , have mingle so much heartfelt hospitality with your entertainment of the homeless stranger , that the milk become an inexhaustible fount of nectar , and the brown loaf and the honey be ambrosia .
Thus , the divinity have feast , at your board , off the same viands that supply their banquet on Olympus .
You have do well , my dear old friend .
Wherefore , request whatever favor you have most at heart , and it be grant . ''
Philemon and Baucis look at one another , and then , -- I know not which of the two it be who speak , but that one utter the desire of both their heart .
`` Let u live together , while we live , and leave the world at the same instant , when we die !
For we have always love one another ! ''
`` Be it so ! ''
reply the stranger , with majestic kindness .
`` Now , look towards your cottage ! ''
They do so .
But what be their surprise , on behold a tall edifice of white marble , with a wide-open portal , occupy the spot where their humble residence have so lately stood !
`` There be your home , '' say the stranger , beneficently smile on them both .
`` Exercise your hospitality in yonder palace , as freely a in the poor hovel to which you welcome u last evening . ''
The old folk fell on their knee to thank him ; but , behold !
neither he nor Quicksilver be there .
So Philemon and Baucis take up their residence in the marble palace , and spend their time , with vast satisfaction to themselves , in make everybody jolly and comfortable who happen to pass that way .
The milk-pitcher , I must not forget to say , retain it marvellous quality of be never empty , when it be desirable to have it full .
Whenever an honest , good-humored , and free-hearted guest take a draught from this pitcher , he invariably find it the sweet and most invigorating fluid that ever run down his throat .
But , if a cross and disagreeable curmudgeon happen to sip , he be pretty certain to twist his visage into a hard knot , and pronounce it a pitcher of sour milk !
Thus the old couple live in their palace a great , great while , and grow old and old , and very old indeed .
At length , however , there come a summer morning when Philemon and Baucis fail to make their appearance , a on other morning , with one hospitable smile overspread both their pleasant face , to invite the guest of overnight to breakfast .
The guest search everywhere , from top to bottom of the spacious palace , and all to no purpose .
But , after a great deal of perplexity , they espy , in front of the portal , two venerable tree , which nobody could remember to have see there the day before .
Yet there they stand , with their root fasten deep into the soil , and a huge breadth of foliage overshadow the whole front of the edifice .
One be an oak , and the other a linden-tree .
Their bough it be strange and beautiful to see -- be intertwine together , and embrace one another , so that each tree seem to live in the other tree 's bosom , much more than in it own .
While the guest be marvel how these tree , that must have require at least a century to grow , could have come to be so tall and venerable in a single night , a breeze sprang up , and set their intermingled bough astir .
And then there be a deep , broad murmur in the air , a if the two mysterious tree be speak .
`` I be old Philemon ! ''
murmur the oak .
`` I be old Baucis ! ''
murmur the linden-tree .
But , a the breeze grow strong , the tree both speak at once , -- `` Philemon !
Baucis !
Baucis !
Philemon ! ''
-- a if one be both and both be one , and talk together in the depth of their mutual heart .
It be plain enough to perceive that the good old couple have renew their age , and be now to spend a quiet and delightful hundred year or so , Philemon a an oak , and Baucis a a linden-tree .
And oh , what a hospitable shade do they fling around them !
Whenever a wayfarer pause beneath it , he hear a pleasant whisper of the leaf above his head , and wonder how the sound should so much resemble word like these : -- `` Welcome , welcome , dear traveller , welcome ! ''
And some kind soul , that know what would have please old Baucis and old Philemon best , build a circular seat around both their trunk , where , for a great while afterwards , the weary , and the hungry , and the thirsty use to repose themselves , and quaff milk abundantly out of the miraculous pitcher .
And I wish , for all our sake , that we have the pitcher here now !
THE HILLSIDE .
AFTER THE STORY .
`` How much do the pitcher hold ? ''
ask Sweet Fern .
`` It do not hold quite a quart , '' answer the student ; `` but you might keep pour milk out of it , till you should fill a hogshead , if you please .
The truth be , it would run on forever , and not be dry even at midsummer , -- which be more than can be say of yonder rill , that go babble down the hillside . ''
`` And what have become of the pitcher now ? ''
inquire the little boy .
`` It be break , I be sorry to say , about twenty-five thousand year ago , '' reply Cousin Eustace .
`` The people mend it as well a they could ; but , though it would hold milk pretty well , it be never afterwards know to fill itself of it own accord .
So , you see , it be no good than any other crack earthen pitcher . ''
`` What a pity ! ''
cry all the child at once .
The respectable dog Ben have accompany the party , a do likewise a half-grown Newfoundland puppy , who go by the name of Bruin , because he be just as black a a bear .
Ben , be elderly , and of very circumspect habit , be respectfully request , by Cousin Eustace , to stay behind with the four little child , in order to keep them out of mischief .
As for black Bruin , who be himself nothing but a child , the student think it best to take him along , l , in his rude play with the other child , he should trip them up , and send them roll and tumble down the bill .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Paradise_of_Children.txt.out
TANGLEWOOD PLAY-ROOM .
The golden day of October pass away , a so many other Octobers have , and brown November likewise , and the great part of chill December , too .
At last come merry Christmas , and Eustace Bright along with it , make it all the merrier by his presence .
And , the day after his arrival from college , there come a mighty snow-storm .
Up to this time , the winter have hold back , and have give u a good many mild day , which be like smile upon it wrinkled visage .
The grass have keep itself green , in sheltered place , such a the nook of southern hill-slopes , and along the lee of the stone fence .
It be but a week or two ago , and since the beginning of the month , that the child have find a dandelion in bloom , on the margin of Shadow Brook , where it glide out of the dell .
But no more green grass and dandelion now .
This be such a snow-storm !
Twenty mile of it might have be visible at once , between the window of Tanglewood and the dome of Taconic , have it be possible to see so far , among the eddy drift that whiten all the atmosphere .
It seem a if the hill be giant , and be fling monstrous handful of snow at one another , in their enormous sport .
So thick be the fluttering snow-flakes , that even the tree , midway down the valley , be hide by them the great part of the time .
Sometimes , it be true , the little prisoner of Tanglewood could discern a dim outline of Monument Mountain , and the smooth whiteness of the frozen lake at it base , and the black or gray tract of woodland in the nearer landscape .
But these be merely peep through the tempest .
Nevertheless , the child rejoice greatly in the snowstorm .
They have already make acquaintance with it , by tumble heel over head into it high drift , and fling snow at one another , a we have just fancy the Berkshire mountains to be do .
And now they have come back to their spacious play-room , which be as big a the great drawing-room , and be lumber with all sort of plaything , large and small .
The big be a rocking-horse , that look like a real pony ; and there be a whole family of wooden , waxen , plaster , and china doll , besides rag-babies ; and block enough to build Bunker Hill Monument , and nine-pins , and ball , and humming-tops , and battledore , and grace-sticks , and skipping-ropes , and more of such valuable property than I could tell of in a printed page .
But the child like the snow-storm well than them all .
It suggest so many brisk enjoyment for to-morrow , and all the remainder of the winter .
The sleigh-ride ; the slide down hill into the valley ; the snow-images that be to be shape out ; the snow-fortresses that be to be build ; and the snow-balling to be carry on !
So the little folk bless the snow-storm , and be glad to see it come thicker and thicker , and watch hopefully the long drift that be pile itself up in the avenue , and be already high than any of their head .
`` Why , we shall be block up till spring ! ''
cry they , with the huge delight .
`` What a pity that the house be too high to be quite cover up !
The little red house , down yonder , will be bury up to it eaves . ''
`` You silly child , what do you want of more snow ? ''
ask Eustace , who , tire of some novel that he be skim through , have stroll into the play-room .
`` It have do mischief enough already , by spoil the only skating that I could hope for through the winter .
We shall see nothing more of the lake till April ; and this be to have be my first day upon it !
Do n't you pity me , Primrose ? ''
`` O , to be sure ! ''
answer Primrose , laugh .
`` But , for your comfort , we will listen to another of your old story , such a you tell u under the porch , and down in the hollow , by Shadow Brook .
Perhaps I shall like them good now , when there be nothing to do , than while there be nut to be gather , and beautiful weather to enjoy . ''
Hereupon , Periwinkle , Clover , Sweet Fern , and a many others of the little fraternity and cousinhood a be still at Tanglewood , gather about Eustace , and earnestly beseech him for a story .
The student yawn , stretch himself , and then , to the vast admiration of the small people , skip three time hack and forth over the top of a chair , in order , a he explain to them , to set his wit in motion .
`` Well , well , child , '' say he , after these preliminary , `` since you insist , and Primrose have set her heart upon it , I will see what can be do for you .
And , that you may know what happy day there be before snowstorm come into fashion , I will tell you a story of the old of all old time , when the world be as new a Sweet Fern 's bran-new humming-top .
There be then but one season in the year , and that be the delightful summer ; and but one age for mortal , and that be childhood . ''
`` I never heard of that before , '' say Primrose .
`` Of course , you never do , '' answer Eustace .
`` It shall be a story of what nobody but myself ever dream of , -- a Paradise of child , -- and how , by the naughtiness of just such a little imp a Primrose here , it all come to nothing . ''
So Eustace Bright sit down in the chair which he have just be skip over , take Cowslip upon his knee , order silence throughout the auditory , and begin a story about a sad naughty child , whose name be Pandora , and about her playfellow Epimetheus .
You may read it , word for word , in the page that come next .
THE PARADISE OF CHILDREN .
Long , long ago , when this old world be in it tender infancy , there be a child , name Epimetheus , who never have either father or mother ; and , that he might not be lonely , another child , fatherless and motherless like himself , be send from a far country , to live with him , and be his playfellow and helpmate .
Her name be Pandora .
The first thing that Pandora saw , when she enter the cottage where Epimetheus dwelt , be a great box .
And almost the first question which she put to him , after cross the threshold , be this , -- `` Epimetheus , what have you in that box ? ''
`` My dear little Pandora , '' answer Epimetheus , `` that be a secret , and you must be kind enough not to ask any question about it .
The box be leave here to be keep safely , and I do not myself know what it contain . ''
`` But , who give it to you ? ''
ask Pandora .
`` And where do it come from ? ''
`` That be a secret , too , '' reply Epimetheus .
`` How provoking ! ''
exclaim Pandora , pout her lip .
`` I wish the great ugly box be out of the way ! ''
`` O come , do n't think of it , any more , '' cry Epimetheus .
`` Let u run out of door , and have some nice play with the other child . ''
It be thousand of year since Epimetheus and Pandora be alive ; and the world , nowadays , be a very different sort of thing from what it be in their time .
Then , everybody be a child .
There need no father and mother to take care of the child ; because there be no danger , nor trouble of any kind , and no clothes to be mend , and there be always plenty to eat and drink .
Whenever a child want his dinner , he find it grow on a tree ; and , if he look at the tree in the morning , he could see the expand blossom of that night 's supper ; or , at eventide , he saw the tender bud of to-morrow 's breakfast .
It be a very pleasant life indeed .
No labor to be do , no task to be study ; nothing but sport and dance , and sweet voice of child talk , or carol like bird , or gush out in merry laughter , throughout the livelong day .
What be most wonderful of all , the child never quarrel among themselves ; neither have they any cry fit ; nor , since time first begin , have a single one of these little mortal ever go apart into a corner , and sulk .
O , what a good time be that to be alive in !
The truth be , those ugly little winged monster , call Troubles , which be now almost as numerous a mosquito , have never yet be see on the earth .
It be probable that the very great disquietude which a child have ever experience be Pandora 's vexation at not be able to discover the secret of the mysterious box .
This be at first only the faint shadow of a Trouble ; but , every day , it grow more and more substantial , until , before a great while , the cottage of Epimetheus and Pandora be less sunshiny than those of the other child .
`` Whence can the box have come ? ''
Pandora continually keep say to herself and to Epimetheus .
`` And what in the world can be inside of it ? ''
`` Always talk about this box ! ''
say Epimetheus , at last ; for he have grow extremely tire of the subject .
`` I wish , dear Pandora , you would try to talk of something else .
Come , let u go and gather some ripe fig , and eat them under the tree , for our supper .
And I know a vine that have the sweetest and juicy grape you ever taste . ''
`` Always talk about grape and fig ! ''
cry Pandora , pettishly .
`` Well , then , '' say Epimetheus , who be a very good-tempered child , like a multitude of child in those day , `` let u run out and have a merry time with our playmate . ''
`` I be tire of merry time , and do n't care if I never have any more ! ''
answer our pettish little Pandora .
`` And , besides , I never do have any .
This ugly box !
I be so take up with think about it all the time .
I insist upon your tell me what be inside of it . ''
`` As I have already say , fifty time over , I do not know ! ''
reply Epimetheus , get a little vexed .
`` How , then , can I tell you what be inside ? ''
`` You might open it , '' say Pandora , look sideways at Epimetheus , `` and then we could see for ourselves . ''
`` Pandora , what be you think of ? ''
exclaim Epimetheus .
And his face express so much horror at the idea of look into a box , which have be confide to him on the condition of his never open it , that Pandora think it best not to suggest it any more .
Still , however , she could not help thinking and talk about the box .
`` At least , '' say she , `` you can tell me how it come here . ''
`` It be leave at the door , '' reply Epimetheus , `` just before you come , by a person who look very smile and intelligent , and who could hardly forbear laugh a he put it down .
He be dress in an-odd kind of a cloak , and have on a cap that seem to be make partly of feather , so that it look almost a if it have wing . ''
`` What sort of a staff have he ? ''
ask Pandora .
`` O , the most curious staff you ever saw ! ''
cry Epimetheus .
`` It be like two serpent twist around a stick , and be carve so naturally that I , at first , buy the serpent be alive . ''
`` I know him , '' say Pandora , thoughtfully .
`` Nobody else have such a staff .
It be Quicksilver ; and he bring one hither , as well a the box .
No doubt he intend it for me ; and , most probably , it contain pretty dress for me to wear , or toy for you and me to play with , or something very nice for u both to eat ! ''
`` Perhaps so , '' answer Epimetheus , turn away .
`` But until Quicksilver come back and tell u so , we have neither of u any right to lift the lid of the box . ''
`` What a dull boy he be ! ''
mutter Pandora , a Epimetheus leave the cottage .
`` I do wish he have a little more enterprise ! ''
For the first time since her arrival , Epimetheus have go out without ask Pandora to accompany him .
He go to gather fig and grape by himself , or to seek whatever amusement he could find , in other society than his little playfellow 's .
He be tire to death of hear about the box , and heartily wish that Quicksilver , or whatever be the messenger 's name , have leave it at some other child 's door , where Pandora would never have set eye on it .
So perseveringly a she do babble about this one thing !
The box , the box , and nothing but the box !
It seem a if the box be bewitch , and a if the cottage be not big enough to hold it , without Pandora 's continually stumble over it , and make Epimetheus stumble over it likewise , and bruise all four of their shin .
Well , it be really hard that poor Epimetheus should have a box in his ear from morning till night ; especially a the little people of the earth be so unaccustomed to vexation , in those happy day , that they know not how to deal with them .
Thus , a small vexation make a much disturbance , then , a a far big one would , in our own time .
After Epimetheus be go , Pandora stand gaze at the box .
She have call it ugly , above a hundred time ; but , in spite of all that she have say against it , it be positively a very handsome article of furniture , and would have be quite an ornament to any room in which it should be place .
It be make of a beautiful kind of wood , with dark and rich vein spread over it surface , which be so highly polished that little Pandora could see her face in it .
As the child have no other looking-glass , it be odd that she do not value the box , merely on this account .
The edge and corner of the box be carve with most wonderful skill .
Around the margin there be figure of graceful men and woman , and the prettiest child ever see , recline or sport amid a profusion of flower and foliage ; and these various object be so exquisitely represent , and be work together in such harmony , that flower , foliage , and human being seem to combine into a wreath of mingled beauty .
But here and there , peep forth from behind the carved foliage , Pandora once or twice fancy that she saw a face not so lovely , or something or other that be disagreeable , and which steal the beauty out of all the rest .
Nevertheless , on look more closely , and touch the spot with her finger , she could discover nothing of the kind .
Some face , that be really beautiful , have be make to look ugly by her catch a sideway glimpse at it .
The most beautiful face of all be do in what be call high relief , in the centre of the lid .
There be nothing else , save the dark , smooth richness of the polished wood , and this one face in the centre , with a garland of flower about it brow .
Pandora have look at this face a great many time , and imagine that the mouth could smile if it like , or be grave when it choose , the same a any living mouth .
The feature , indeed , all wear a very lively and rather mischievous expression , which look almost a if it need must burst out of the carved lip , and utter itself in word .
Had the mouth spoken , it would probably have be something like this : `` Do not be afraid , Pandora !
What harm can there be in open the box ?
Never mind that poor , simple Epimetheus !
You be wise than he , and have ten time as much spirit .
Open the box , and see if you do not find something very pretty ! ''
The box , I have almost forget to say , be fasten ; not by a lock , nor by any other such contrivance , but by a very intricate knot of gold cord .
There appear to be no end to this knot , and no beginning .
Never be a knot so cunningly twisted , nor with so many in and out , which roguishly defy the skilfullest finger to disentangle them .
And yet , by the very difficulty that there be in it , Pandora be the more tempted to examine the knot , and just see how it be make .
Two or three time , already , she have stoop over the box , and take the knot between her thumb and forefinger , but without positively try to undo it .
`` I really believe , '' say she to herself , `` that I begin to see how it be do .
Nay , perhaps I could tie it up again , after undo it .
There would be no harm in that , surely .
Even Epimetheus would not blame me for that .
I need not open the box , and should not , of course , without the foolish boy 's consent , even if the knot be untied . ''
It might have be good for Pandora if she have have a little work to do , or anything to employ her mind upon , so a not to be so constantly think of this one subject .
But child lead so easy a life , before any Troubles come into the world , that they have really a great deal too much leisure .
They could not be forever play at hide-and-seek among the flower-shrubs , or at blind-man 's - buff with garland over their eye , or at whatever other game have be find out , while Mother Earth be in her babyhood .
When life be all sport , toil be the real play .
There be absolutely nothing to do .
A little sweeping and dust about the cottage , I suppose , and the gathering of fresh flower -LRB- which be only too abundant everywhere -RRB- , and arrange them in vas , -- and poor little Pandora 's day 's work be over .
And then , for the rest of the day , there be the box !
After all , I be not quite sure that the box be not a blessing to her in it way .
It supply her with such a variety of idea to think of , and to talk about , whenever she have anybody to listen !
When she be in good humor , she could admire the bright polish of it side , and the rich border of beautiful face and foliage that run all around it .
Or , if she chance to be ill-tempered , she could give it a push , or kick it with her naughty little foot .
And many a kick do the box -- -LRB- but it be a mischievous box , a we shall see , and deserve all it get -RRB- -- many a kick do it receive .
But , certain it be , if it have not be for the box , our active-minded little Pandora would not have know half so well how to spend her time a she now do .
For it be really an endless employment to guess what be inside .
What could it be , indeed ?
Just imagine , my little hearer , how busy your wit would be , if there be a great box in the house , which , a you might have reason to suppose , contain something new and pretty for your Christmas or New-Year 's gift .
Do you think that you should be less curious than Pandora ?
If you be leave alone with the box , might you not feel a little tempted to lift the lid ?
But you would not do it .
O , fie !
No , no !
Only , if you think there be toy in it , it would be so very hard to let slip an opportunity of take just one peep !
I know not whether Pandora expect any toy ; for none have yet begin to be make , probably , in those day , when the world itself be one great plaything for the child that dwell upon it .
But Pandora be convince that there be something very beautiful and valuable in the box ; and therefore she felt just as anxious to take a peep a any of these little girl , here around me , would have felt .
And , possibly , a little more so ; but of that I be not quite so certain .
On this particular day , however , which we have so long be talk about , her curiosity grow so much great than it usually be , that , at last , she approach the box .
She be more than half determine to open it , if she could .
Ah , naughty Pandora !
First , however , she try to lift it .
It be heavy ; quite too heavy for the slender strength of a child , like Pandora .
She raise one end of the box a few inch from the floor , and let it fall again , with a pretty loud thump .
A moment afterwards , she almost fancy that she hear something stir , inside of the box .
She apply her ear as closely a possible , and listen .
Positively , there do seem to be a kind of stifled murmur , within !
Or be it merely the singing in Pandora 's ear ?
Or could it be the beating of her heart ?
The child could not quite satisfy herself whether she have hear anything or no .
But , at all event , her curiosity be strong than ever .
As she draw back her head , her eye fell upon the knot of gold cord .
`` It must have be a very ingenious person who tie this knot , '' say Pandora to herself .
`` But I think I could untie it , nevertheless .
I be resolve , at least , to find the two end of the cord . ''
So she take the golden knot in her finger , and pry into it intricacy as sharply a she could .
Almost without intend it , or quite know what she be about , she be soon busily engage in attempt to undo it .
Meanwhile , the bright sunshine come through the open window ; a do likewise the merry voice of the child , play at a distance , and perhaps the voice of Epimetheus among then .
Pandora stop to listen .
What a beautiful day it be !
Would it not be wiser , if she be to let the troublesome knot alone , and think no more about the box , but run and join her little playfellow , and be happy ?
All this time , however , her finger be half unconsciously busy with the knot ; and happen to glance at the flower-wreathed face on the lid of the enchanted box , she seem to perceive it slyly grin at her .
`` That face look very mischievous , '' think Pandora .
`` I wonder whether it smile because I be do wrong !
I have the great mind in the world to run away ! ''
But just then , by the mere accident , she give the knot a kind of a twist , which produce a wonderful result .
The gold cord untwine itself , a if by magic , and leave the box without a fastening .
`` This be the strange thing I ever know ! ''
say Pandora .
`` What will Epimetheus say ?
And how can I possibly tie it up again ? ''
She make one or two attempt to restore the knot , but soon find it quite beyond her skill .
It have disentangle itself so suddenly that she could not in the least remember how the string have be double into one another ; and when she try to recollect the shape and appearance of the knot , it seem to have go entirely out of her mind .
Nothing be to be do , therefore , but to let the box remain a it be , until Epimetheus should come in .
`` But , '' say Pandora , `` when he find the knot untied , he will know that I have do it .
How shall I make him believe that I have not look into the box ? ''
And then the thought come into her naughty little heart , that , since she would be suspect of have look into the box , she might just as well do so , at once .
O , very naughty and very foolish Pandora !
You should have think only of do what be right , and of leave undone what be wrong , and not of what your playfellow Epimetheus would have say or believe .
And so perhaps she might , if the enchanted face on the lid of the box have not look so bewitchingly persuasive at her , and if she have not seem to hear , more distinctly than before , the murmur of small voice within .
She could not tell whether it be fancy or no ; but there be quite a little tumult of whisper in her ear , -- or else it be her curiosity that whisper , `` Let u out , dear Pandora , -- pray let u out !
We will be such nice pretty playfellow for you !
Only let u out ! ''
`` What can it be ? ''
think Pandora .
`` Is there something alive in the box ?
Well !
-- yes !
-- I be resolve to take just one peep !
Only one peep ; and then the lid shall be shut down as safely a ever !
There can not possibly be any harm in just one little peep ! ''
But it be now time for u to see what Epimetheus be do .
This be the first time , since his little playmate have come to dwell with him , that he have attempt to enjoy any pleasure in which she do not partake .
But nothing go right ; nor be he nearly so happy a on other day .
He could not find a sweet grape or a ripe fig -LRB- if Epimetheus have a fault , it be a little too much fondness for figs -RRB- ; or , if ripe at all , they be over-ripe , and so sweet a to be cloy .
There be no mirth in his heart , such a usually make his voice gush out , of it own accord , and swell the merriment of his companion .
In short , he grow so uneasy and discontent , that the other child could not imagine what be the matter with Epimetheus .
Neither do he himself know what ail him , any good than they do .
For you must recollect , that at the time we be speak of , it be everybody 's nature , and constant habit , to be happy .
The world have not yet learn to be otherwise .
Not a single soul or body , since these child be first sent to enjoy themselves on the beautiful earth , have ever be sick , or out of sort .
At length , discover that , somehow or other , he put a stop to all the play , Epimetheus judge it best to go back to Pandora , who be in a humor well suit to his own .
But , with a hope of give her pleasure , he gather some flower , and make them into a wreath , which he mean to put upon her head .
The flower be very lovely , -- rose , and lily , and orange-blossoms , and a great many more , which leave a trail of fragrance behind , a Epimetheus carry them along ; and the wreath be put together with as much skill a could reasonably be expect of a boy .
The finger of little girl , it have always appear to me , be the fit to twine flower-wreaths ; but boy could do it , in those day , rather good than they can now .
And here I must mention that a great black cloud have be gather in the sky , for some time past , although it have not yet overspread the sun .
But , just a Epimetheus reach the cottage door , this cloud begin to intercept the sunshine , and thus to make a sudden and sad obscurity .
He enter softly ; for he mean , if possible , to steal behind Pandora , and fling the wreath of flower over her head , before she should be aware of his approach .
But , a it happen , there be no need of his tread so very lightly .
He might have tread as heavily a he please , -- as heavily a a grown man , -- a heavily , I be go to say , a an elephant , -- without much probability of Pandora 's hear his footstep .
She be too intent upon her purpose .
At the moment of his enter the cottage , the naughty child have put her hand to the lid , and be on the point of open the mysterious box .
Epimetheus behold her .
If he have cry out , Pandora would probably have withdraw her hand , and the fatal mystery of the box might never have be know .
But Epimetheus himself , although he say very little about it , have his own share of curiosity to know what be inside .
Perceiving that Pandora be resolve to find out the secret , he determine that his playfellow should not be the only wise person in the cottage .
And if there be anything pretty or valuable in the box , he mean to take half of it to himself .
Thus , after all his sage speech to Pandora about restrain her curiosity , Epimetheus turn out to be quite a foolish , and nearly as much in fault , a she .
So , whenever we blame Pandora for what happen , we must not forget to shake our head at Epimetheus likewise .
As Pandora raise the lid , the cottage grow very dark and dismal ; for the black cloud have now sweep quite over the sun , and seem to have bury it alive .
There have , for a little while past , be a low growling and muttering , which all at once break into a heavy peal of thunder .
But Pandora , heed nothing of all this , lift the lid nearly upright , and look inside .
It seem a if a sudden swarm of winged creature brush past her , take flight out of the box , while , at the same instant , she hear the voice of Epimetheus , with a lamentable tone , a if he be in pain .
`` O , I be stung ! ''
cry he .
`` I be stung !
Naughty Pandora !
why have you open this wicked box ? ''
Pandora let fall the lid , and , start up , look about her , to see what have befall Epimetheus .
The thundercloud have so darken the room that she could not very clearly discern what be in it .
But she hear a disagreeable buzzing , a if a great many huge fly , or gigantic mosquito , or those insect which we call dorbugs and pinching-dogs , be dart about .
And , a her eye grow more accustomed to the imperfect light , she saw a crowd of ugly little shape , with bat ' wing , look abominably spiteful , and arm with terribly long sting in their tail .
It be one of these that have sting Epimetheus .
Nor be it a great while before Pandora herself begin to scream , in no less pain and affright than her playfellow , and make a vast deal more hubbub about it .
An odious little monster have settle on her forehead , and would have stung her I know not how deeply , if Epimetheus have not run and brush it away .
Now , if you wish to know what these ugly thing might be , which have make their escape out of the box , I must tell you that they be the whole family of earthly Troubles .
There be evil Passions ; there be a great many specie of Cares ; there be more than a hundred and fifty Sorrows ; there be Diseases , in a vast number of miserable and painful shape ; there be more kind of Naughtiness than it would be of any use to talk about .
In short , everything that have since afflict the soul and body of mankind have be shut up in the mysterious box , and give to Epimetheus and Pandora to be keep safely , in order that the happy child of the world might never be molest by them .
Had they be faithful to their trust , all would have go well .
No grown person would ever have be sad , nor any child have have cause to shed a single tear , from that hour until this moment .
But -- and you may see by this how a wrong act of any one mortal be a calamity to the whole world -- by Pandora 's lift the lid of that miserable box , and by the fault of Epimetheus , too , in not prevent her , these Troubles have obtain a foothold among u , and do not seem very likely to be drive away in a hurry .
For it be impossible , a you will easily guess , that the two child should keep the ugly swarm in their own little cottage .
On the contrary , the first thing that they do be to fling open the door and window , in hope of get rid of them ; and , sure enough , away fly the winged Troubles all abroad , and so pestered and torment the small people , everywhere about , that none of them so much a smile for many day afterwards .
And , what be very singular , all the flower and dewy blossom on earth , not one of which have hitherto fade , now begin to droop and shed their leaf , after a day or two .
The child , moreover , who before seem immortal in their childhood , now grow old , day by day , and come soon to be youth and maiden , and men and woman by and by , and age people , before they dream of such a thing .
Meanwhile , the naughty Pandora , and hardly less naughty Epimetheus , remain in their cottage .
Both of them have be grievously stung , and be in a good deal of pain , which seem the more intolerable to them , because it be the very first pain that have ever be felt since the world begin .
Of course , they be entirely unaccustomed to it , and could have no idea what it mean .
Besides all this , they be in exceedingly bad humor , both with themselves and with one another .
In order to indulge it to the utmost , Epimetheus sit down sullenly in a corner with his back towards Pandora ; while Pandora fling herself upon the floor and rest her head on the fatal and abominable box .
She be cry bitterly , and sob a if her heart would break .
Suddenly there be a gentle little tap , on the inside of the lid .
`` What can that be ? ''
cry Pandora , lift her head .
But either Epimetheus have not hear the tap , or be too much out of humor to notice it .
At any rate , he make no answer .
`` You be very unkind , '' say Pandora , sob anew , `` not to speak to me ! ''
Again the tap !
It sound like the tiny knuckle of a fairy 's hand , knock lightly and playfully on the inside of the box .
`` Who be you ? ''
ask Pandora , with a little of her former curiosity .
`` Who be you , inside of this naughty box ? ''
A sweet little voice speak from within , -- `` Only lift the lid , and you shall see . ''
`` No , no , '' answer Pandora , again begin to sob , `` I have have enough of lift the lid !
You be inside of the box , naughty creature , and there you shall stay !
There be plenty of your ugly brother and sister already fly about the world .
You need never think that I shall be so foolish a to let you out ! ''
She look towards Epimetheus , a she speak , perhaps expect that he would commend her for her wisdom .
But the sullen boy only mutter that she be wise a little too late .
`` Ah , '' say the sweet little voice again , `` you have much well let me out .
I be not like those naughty creature that have sting in their tail .
They be no brother and sister of mine , a you would see at once , if you be only to get a glimpse of me .
Come , come , my pretty Pandora !
I be sure you will let me out ! ''
And , indeed , there be a kind of cheerful witchery in the tone , that make it almost impossible to refuse anything which this little voice ask .
Pandora 's heart have insensibly grow lighter , at every word that come from within the box .
Epimetheus , too , though still in the corner , have turn half round , and seem to be in rather good spirit than before .
`` My dear Epimetheus , '' cry Pandora , `` have you hear this little voice ? ''
`` Yes , to be sure I have , '' answer he , but in no very good-humor a yet .
`` And what of it ? ''
`` Shall I lift the lid again ? ''
ask Pandora .
`` Just a you please , '' say Epimetheus .
`` You have do so much mischief already , that perhaps you may as well do a little more .
One other Trouble , in such a swarm a you have set adrift about the world , can make no very great difference . ''
`` You might speak a little more kindly ! ''
murmur Pandora , wipe her eye .
`` Ah , naughty boy ! ''
cry the little voice within the box , in an arch and laugh tone .
`` He know he be long to see me .
Come , my dear Pandora , lift up the lid .
I be in a great hurry to comfort you .
Only let me have some fresh air , and you shall soon see that matter be not quite so dismal a you think them ! ''
`` Epimetheus , '' exclaim Pandora , `` come what may , I be resolve to open the box ! ''
`` And , a the lid seem very heavy , '' cry Epimetheus , run across the room , `` I will help you ! ''
So , with one consent , the two child again lift the lid .
Out fly a sunny and smile little personage , and hover about the room , throw a light wherever she go .
Have you never make the sunshine dance into dark corner , by reflect it from a bit of looking-glass ?
Well , so look the winged cheerfulness of this fairylike stranger , amid the gloom of the cottage .
She fly to Epimetheus , and lay the least touch of her finger on the inflamed spot where the Trouble have sting him , and immediately the anguish of it be go .
Then she kiss Pandora on the forehead , and her hurt be cure likewise .
After perform these good office , the bright stranger flutter sportively over the child 's head , and look so sweetly at them , that they both begin to think it not so very much amiss to have open the box , since , otherwise , their cheery guest must have be keep a prisoner among those naughty imps with sting in their tail .
`` Pray , who be you , beautiful creature ? ''
inquired Pandora .
`` I be to be call Hope ! ''
answer the sunshiny figure .
`` And because I be such a cheery little body , I be pack into the box , to make amends to the human race for that swarm of ugly Troubles , which be destine to be let loose among them .
Never fear !
we shall do pretty well , in spite of them all . ''
`` Your wing be color like the rainbow ! ''
exclaim Pandora .
`` How very beautiful ! ''
`` Yes , they be like the rainbow , '' say Hope , `` because glad a my nature be , I be partly make of tear as well a smile . ''
`` And will you stay with u , '' ask Epimetheus , `` for ever and ever ? ''
`` As long a you need me , '' say Hope , with her pleasant smile , -- `` and that will be as long a you live in the world , -- I promise never to desert you .
There may come time and season , now and then , when you will think that I have utterly vanish .
But again , and again , and again , when perhaps you least dream of it , you shall see the glimmer of my wing on the ceiling of your cottage .
Yes , my dear child , and I know something very good and beautiful that be to be give you hereafter ! ''
`` O tell u , '' they exclaim , -- `` tell u what it be ! ''
`` Do not ask me , '' reply Hope , put her finger on her rosy mouth .
`` But do not despair , even if it should never happen while you live on this earth .
Trust in my promise , for it be true . ''
`` We do trust you ! ''
cry Epimetheus and Pandora , both in one breath .
And so they do ; and not only they , but so have everybody trust Hope , that have since be alive .
And , to tell you the truth , I can not help be glad -- -LRB- though , to be sure , it be an uncommonly naughty thing for her to do -RRB- - but I can not help be glad that our foolish Pandora peep into the box .
No doubt -- no doubt -- the Troubles be still fly about the world , and have increase in multitude , rather than lessen , and be a very ugly set of imp , and carry most venomous sting in their tail .
I have felt them already , and expect to feel them more , a I grow old .
But then that lovely and lightsome little figure of Hope !
What in the world could we do without her ?
Hope spiritualize the earth ; Hope make it always new ; and , even in the earth 's best and bright aspect , Hope show it to be only the shadow of an infinite bliss hereafter !
TANGLEWOOD PLAY-ROOM .
AFTER THE STORY .
`` Primrose , '' ask Eustace , pinch her ear , `` how do you like my little Pandora ?
Do n't you think her the exact picture of yourself ?
But you would not have hesitate half so long about open the box . ''
`` Then I should have be well punish for my naughtiness , '' retort Primrose , smartly ; `` for the first thing to pop out , after the lid be lift , would have be Mr. Eustace Bright , in the shape of a Trouble . ''
`` Cousin Eustace , '' say Sweet Fern , `` do the box hold all the trouble that have ever come into the world ? ''
`` Every mite of it ! ''
answered Eustace .
`` This very snow-storm , which have spoil my skating , be pack up there . ''
`` And how big be the box ? ''
ask Sweet Fern .
`` Why , perhaps three foot long , '' say Eustace , `` two foot wide , and two foot and a half high . ''
`` Ah , '' say the child , `` you be make fun of me , Cousin Eustace !
I know there be not trouble enough in the world to fill such a great box a that .
As for the snow-storm , it be no trouble at all , but a pleasure ; so it could not have be in the box . ''
`` Hear the child ! ''
cry Primrose , with an air of superiority .
`` How little he know about the trouble of this world !
Poor fellow !
He will be wiser when he have see a much of life a I have . ''
So say , she begin to skip the rope .
Meantime , the day be draw towards it close .
Out of door the scene certainly look dreary .
There be a gray drift , far and wide , through the gathering twilight ; the earth be as pathless a the air ; and the bank of snow over the step of the porch prove that nobody have enter or go out for a good many hour past .
Had there be only one child at the window of Tanglewood , gaze at this wintry prospect , it would perhaps have make him sad .
But half a dozen child together , though they can not quite turn the world into a paradise , may defy old Winter and all his storm to put them out of spirit .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Seven_Vagabonds_ ( From_ '' Twice_Told_Tales '' ) .txt.out
Rambling on foot in the spring of my life and the summer of the year , I come one afternoon to a point which give me the choice of three direction .
Straight before me , the main road extend it dusty length to Boston ; on the left a branch go towards the sea , and would have lengthen my journey a trifle of twenty or thirty mile ; while by the right-hand path , I might have go over hill and lake to Canada , visit in my way the celebrated town of Stamford .
On a level spot of grass , at the foot of the guidepost , appear an object , which , though locomotive on a different principle , remind me of Gulliver 's portable mansion among the Brobdignags .
It be a huge covered wagon , or , more properly , a small house on wheel , with a door on one side and a window shade by green blind on the other .
Two horse , munch provender out of the basket which muzzle them , be fasten near the vehicle : a delectable sound of music proceed from the interior ; and I immediately conjecture that this be some itinerant show , halt at the confluence of the road to intercept such idle traveller a myself .
A shower have long be climb up the western sky , and now hang so blackly over my onward path that it be a point of wisdom to seek shelter here .
`` Halloo !
Who stand guard here ?
Is the doorkeeper asleep ? ''
cry I , approach a ladder of two or three step which be let down from the wagon .
The music cease at my summons , and there appear at the door , not the sort of figure that I have mentally assign to the wander showman , but a most respectable old personage , whom I be sorry to have address in so free a style .
He wear a snuff color coat and small-clothes , with white-top boot , and exhibit the mild dignity of aspect and manner which may often be notice in aged schoolmaster , and sometimes in deacon , selectman , or other potentate of that kind .
A small piece of silver be my passport within his premise , where I find only one other person , hereafter to be describe .
`` This be a dull day for business , '' say the old gentleman , a he usher me in ; `` but I merely tarry here to refresh the cattle , be bind for the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
Perhaps the movable scene of this narrative be still peregrinate New England , and may enable the reader to test the accuracy of my description .
The spectacle -- for I will not use the unworthy term of puppet-show -- consist of a multitude of little people assemble on a miniature stage .
Among them be artisan of every kind , in the attitude of their toil , and a group of fair lady and gay gentleman stand ready for the dance ; a company of foot-soldiers form a line across the stage , look stern , grim , and terrible enough , to make it a pleasant consideration that they be but three inch high ; and conspicuous above the whole be see a Merry-Andrew , in the pointed cap and motley coat of his profession .
All the inhabitant of this mimic world be motionless , like the figure in a picture , or like that people who one moment be alive in the midst of their business and delight , and the next be transform to statue , preserve an eternal semblance of labor that be end , and pleasure that could be felt no more .
Anon , however , the old gentleman turn the handle of a barrel-organ , the first note of which produce a most enlivening effect upon the figure , and awake them all to their proper occupation and amusement .
By the self-same impulse the tailor ply his needle , the blacksmith 's hammer descend upon the anvil , and the dancer whirl away on feathery tiptoe ; the company of soldier break into platoon , retreat from the stage , and be succeed by a troop of horse , who come prance onward with such a sound of trumpet and trampling of hoof , a might have startle Don Quixote himself ; while an old toper , of inveterate ill habit , uplift his black bottle and take off a hearty swig .
Meantime the Merry-Andrew begin to caper and turn somerset , shake his side , nod his head , and wink his eye in a life-like a manner a if he be ridicule the nonsense of all human affair , and make fun of the whole multitude beneath him .
At length the old magician -LRB- for I compare the showman to Prospero , entertain his guest with a mask of shadow -RRB- pause that I might give utterance to my wonder .
`` What an admirable piece of work be this ! ''
exclaim I , lift up my band in astonishment .
Indeed , I like the spectacle , and be tickle with the old man 's gravity a he preside at it , for I have none of that foolish wisdom which reprove every occupation that be not useful in this world of vanity .
If there be a faculty which I possess more perfectly than most men , it be that of throw myself mentally into situation foreign to my own , and detecting , with a cheerful eye , the desirable circumstance of each .
I could have envy the life of this gray-headed showman , spend a it have be in a course of safe and pleasurable adventure , in drive his huge vehicle sometimes through the sand of Cape Cod , and sometimes over the rough forest road of the north and east , and halt now on the green before a village meeting-house , and now in a paved square of the metropolis .
How often must his heart have be gladden by the delight of child , a they view these animated figure !
or his pride indulge , by harangue learnedly to grow men on the mechanical power which produce such wonderful effect !
or his gallantry bring into play -LRB- for this be an attribute which such grave men do not lack -RRB- by the visit of pretty maiden !
And then with how fresh a feeling must he return , at interval , to his own peculiar home !
`` I would I be assure of a happy a life a his , '' think I . Though the showman 's wagon might have accommodate fifteen or twenty spectator , it now contain only himself and me , and a third person at whom I throw a glance on entering .
He be a neat and trim young man of two or three and twenty ; his drab hat , and green frock-coat with velvet collar , be smart , though no long new ; while a pair of green spectacle , that seem needless to his brisk little eye , give him something of a scholar-like and literary air .
After allow me a sufficient time to inspect the puppet , he advance with a bow , and draw my attention to some book in a corner of the wagon .
These he forthwith begin to extol , with an amazing volubility of well-sounding word , and an ingenuity of praise that win him my heart , a be myself one of the most merciful of critic .
Indeed , his stock require some considerable power of commendation in the salesman ; there be several ancient friend of mine , the novel of those happy day when my affection waver between the Scottish Chiefs and Thomas Thumb ; besides a few of later date , whose merit have not be acknowledge by the public .
I be glad to find that dear little venerable volume , the New England Primer , look as antique a ever , though in it thousandth new edition ; a bundle of superannuated gilt picture-books make such a child of me , that , partly for the glittering cover , and partly for the fairy-tales within , I buy the whole ; and an assortment of ballad and popular theatrical song draw largely on my purse .
To balance these expenditure , I meddle neither with sermon , nor science , nor morality , though volume of each be there ; nor with a Life of Franklin in the coarsest of paper , but so showily bound that it be emblematical of the Doctor himself , in the court dress which he refuse to wear at Paris ; nor with Webster 's Spelling Book , nor some of Byron 's minor poem , nor half a dozen little Testaments at twenty-five cent each .
Thus far the collection might have be sweep from some great bookstore , or pick up at an even auction-room ; but there be one small blue-covered pamphlet , which the peddler hand me with so peculiar an air , that I purchase it immediately at his own price ; and then , for the first time , the thought strike me , that I have speak face to face with the veritable author of a printed book .
The literary man now evince a great kindness for me , and I venture to inquire which way he be travel .
`` O , '' say he , `` I keep company with this old gentleman here , and we be move now towards the camp-meeting at Stamford ! ''
He then explain to me , that for the present season he have rent a corner of the wagon a a bookstore , which , a he wittily observe , be a true Circulating Library , since there be few part of the country where it have not go it round .
I approve of the plan exceedingly , and begin to sum up within my mind the many uncommon felicity in the life of a book-peddler , especially when his character resemble that of the individual before me .
At a high rate be to be reckon the daily and hourly enjoyment of such interview a the present , in which he seize upon the admiration of a passing stranger , and make him aware that a man of literary taste , and even of literary achievement , be travel the country in a showman 's wagon .
A more valuable , yet not infrequent triumph , might be win in his conversation with some elderly clergyman , long vegetate in a rocky , woody , watery back settlement of New England , who , a he recruit his library from the peddler 's stock of sermon , would exhort him to seek a college education and become the first scholar in his class .
Sweeter and prouder yet would be his sensation , when , talk poetry while he sell spelling-books , he should charm the mind , and haply touch the heart of a fair country schoolmistress , herself an unhonored poetess , a wearer of blue stocking which none but himself take pain to look at .
But the scene of his complete glory would be when the wagon have halt for the night , and his stock of book be transfer to some crowd bar-room .
Then would he recommend to the multifarious company , whether traveller from the city , or teamster from the hill , or neighbor squire , or the landlord himself , or his loutish hostler , work suit to each particular taste and capacity ; proving , all the while , by acute criticism and profound remark , that the lore in his book be even exceed by that in his brain .
Thus happily would he traverse the land ; sometimes a herald before the march of Mind ; sometimes walk arm in arm with awful Literature ; and reap everywhere a harvest of real and sensible popularity , which the secluded bookworm , by whose toil he live , could never hope for .
`` If ever I meddle with literature , '' think I , fix myself in adamantine resolution , `` it shall be a a travel bookseller . ''
Though it be still mid-afternoon , the air have now grow dark about u , and a few drop of rain come down upon the roof of our vehicle , patter like the foot of bird that have fly thither to rest .
A sound of pleasant voice make u listen , and there soon appear half-way up the ladder the pretty person of a young damsel , whose rosy face be so cheerful , that even amid the gloomy light it seem a if the sunbeam be peep under her bonnet .
We next saw the dark and handsome feature of a young man , who , with easy gallantry than might have be expect in the heart of Yankee-land , be assist her into the wagon .
It become immediately evident to u , when the two stranger stand within the door , that they be of a profession kindred to those of my companion ; and I be delight with the more than hospitable , the even paternal kindness , of the old showman 's manner , a he welcome them ; while the man of literature hasten to lead the merry-eyed girl to a seat on the long bench .
`` You be house but just in time , my young friend , '' say the master of the wagon .
`` The sky would have be down upon you within five minute . ''
The young man 's reply mark him a a foreigner , not by any variation from the idiom and accent of good English , but because he speak with more caution and accuracy , than if perfectly familiar with the language .
`` We know that a shower be hang over u , '' say he , `` and consult whether it be best to enter the house on the top of yonder hill , but see your wagon in the road -- '' `` We agree to come hither , '' interrupt the girl , with a smile , `` because we should be more at home in a wandering house like this . ''
I , meanwhile , with many a wild and undetermined fantasy , be narrowly inspect these two dove that have fly into our ark .
The young man , tall , agile , and athletic , wear a mass of black shin curl cluster round a dark and vivacious countenance , which , if it have not great expression , be at least more active , and attract ready notice , than the quiet face of our countryman .
At his first appearance , he have be lade with a neat mahogany box , of about two foot square , but very light in proportion to it size , which he have immediately unstrapped from his shoulder and deposit on the floor of the wagon .
The girl have nearly as fair a complexion a our own beauty , and a brighter one than most of them ; the lightness of her figure , which seem calculate to traverse the whole world without weariness , suit well with the glow cheerfulness of her face ; and her gay attire , combine the rainbow hue of crimson , green , and a deep orange , be a proper to her lightsome aspect a if she have be bear in it .
This gay stranger be appropriately burden with that mirth-inspiring instrument , the fiddle , which her companion take from her hand , and shortly begin the process of tuning .
Neither of u -- the previous company of the wagon-needed to inquire their trade ; for this could be no mystery to frequenter of brigade-musters , ordination , cattle-shows , commencement , and other festal meeting in our sober land ; and there be a dear friend of mine , who will smile when this page recall to his memory a chivalrous deed perform by u , in rescue the show-box of such a couple from a mob of great double-fisted countryman .
`` Come , '' say I to the damsel of gay attire , `` shall we visit all the wonder of the world together ? ''
She understand the metaphor at once ; though indeed it would not much have trouble me , if she have assent to the literal meaning of my word .
The mahogany box be place in a proper position , and I peep in through it small round magnifying window , while the girl sat by my side , and give short descriptive sketch , a one after another the picture be unfolded to my view .
We visit together , at least our imagination do , full many a famous city , in the street of which I have long yearn to tread ; once , I remember , we be in the harbor of Barcelona , gaze townwards ; next , she bore me through the air to Sicily , and bid me look up at blaze AEtna ; then we take wing to Venice , and sit in a gondola beneath the arch of the Rialto ; and anon she sit me down among the thronged spectator at the coronation of Napoleon .
But there be one scene , it locality she could not tell , which charm my attention long than all those gorgeous palace and church , because the fancy ham me , that I myself , the precede summer , have behold just such a humble meeting-house , in just such a pine-surrounded nook , among our own green mountain .
All these picture be tolerably execute , though far inferior to the girl 's touch of description ; nor be it easy to comprehend , how in so few sentence , and these , a I suppose , in a language foreign to her , she contrive to present an airy copy of each varied scene .
When we have travel through the vast extent of the mahogany box , I look into my guide 's face .
`` Where be you go , my pretty maid ? ''
inquire I , in the word of an old song .
`` Ah , '' say the gay damsel , `` you might as well ask where the summer wind be go .
We be wanderer here , and there , and everywhere .
Wherever there be mirth , our merry heart be draw to it .
To-day , indeed , the people have tell u of a great frolic and festival in these part ; so perhaps we may be need at what you call the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
Then in my happy youth , and while her pleasant voice yet sound in my ear , I sigh ; for none but myself , I think , should have be her companion in a life which seem to realize my own wild fancy , cherish all through visionary boyhood to that hour .
To these two stranger the world be in it golden age , not that indeed it be less dark and sad than ever , but because it weariness and sorrow have no community with their ethereal nature .
Wherever they might appear in their pilgrimage of bliss , Youth would echo back their gladness , care-stricken Maturity would rest a moment from it toil , and Age , totter among the graf , would smile in withered joy for their sake .
The lonely cot , the narrow and gloomy street , the sombre shade , would catch a passing gleam like that now shin on ourselves , a these bright spirit wander by .
Blessed pair , whose happy home be throughout all the earth !
I look at my shoulder , and think them broad enough to sustain those pictured town and mountain ; mine , too , be an elastic foot , as tireless a the wing of the bird of paradise ; mine be then an untroubled heart , that would have go sing on it delightful way .
`` O maiden ! ''
say I aloud , `` why do you not come hither alone ? ''
While the merry girl and myself be busy with the show-box , the unceasing rain have drive another wayfarer into the wagon .
He seem pretty nearly of the old showman 's age , but much small , lean , and more wither than he , and less respectably clad in a patched suit of gray ; withal , he have a thin , shrewd countenance , and a pair of diminutive gray eye , which peep rather too keenly out of their puckered socket .
This old fellow have be joke with the showman , in a manner which intimate previous acquaintance ; but perceive that the damsel and I have terminate our affair , he draw forth a folded document , and present it to me .
As I have anticipate , it prove to be a circular , write in a very fair and legible hand , and sign by several distinguish gentleman whom I have never hear of , state that the bearer have encounter every variety of misfortune , and recommend him to the notice of all charitable people .
Previous disbursement have leave me no more than a five-dollar bill , out of which , however , I offer to make the beggar a donation , provide he would give me change for it .
The object of my beneficence look keenly in my face , and discern that , I have none of that abominable spirit , characteristic though it be , of a full-blooded Yankee , which take pleasure in detect every little harmless piece of knavery .
`` Why , perhaps , '' say the ragged old mendicant , `` if the bank be in good standing , I ca n't say but I may have enough about me to change your bill . ''
`` It be a bill of the Suffolk Bank , '' say I , `` and good than the specie . ''
As the beggar have nothing to object , he now produce a small buff-leather bag , tie up carefully with a shoe-string .
When this be open , there appear a very comfortable treasure of silver coin of all sort and size ; and I even fancy that I saw , gleam among them , the golden plumage of that rare bird in our currency , the American Eagle .
In this precious heap be my bank , note deposit , the rate of exchange be considerably against me .
His want be thus relieve , the destitute man pull out of his pocket an old pack of greasy card , which have probably contribute to fill the buff leather bag , in more way than one .
`` Come , '' say he , `` I spy a rare fortune in your face , and for twenty-five cent more , I 'll tell you what it be . ''
I never refuse to take a glimpse into futurity ; so , after shuffle the card , and when the fair damsel have cut them , I deal a portion to the prophetic beggar .
Like others of his profession , before predict the shadowy event that be move on to meet me , he give proof of his preternatural science , by describe scene through which I have already pass .
Here let me have credit for a sober fact .
When the old man have read a page in his book of fate , he bend his keen gray eye on mine , and proceed to relate , in all it minute particular , what be then the most singular event of my life .
It be one which I have no purpose to disclose , till the general unfolding of all secret ; nor would it be a much strange instance of inscrutable knowledge , or fortunate conjecture , if the beggar be to meet me in the street to-day , and repeat , word for word , the page which I have here write .
The fortune-teller , after predict a destiny which time seem loath to make good , put up his card , secrete his treasure-bag , and begin to converse with the other occupant of the wagon .
`` Well , old friend , '' say the showman , `` you have not yet tell u which way your face be turn this afternoon . ''
`` I be take a trip northward , this warm weather , '' reply the conjurer , `` across the Connecticut first , and then up through Vermont , and may be into Canada before the fall .
But I must stop and see the break up of the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
I begin to think that all the vagrant in New England be converge to the camp-meeting , and have make this wagon their rendezvous by the way .
The showman now propose that , when the shower be over , they should pursue the road to Stamford together , it be sometimes the policy of these people to form a sort of league and confederacy .
`` And the young lady too , '' observe the gallant bibliopolist , bow to her profoundly , `` and this foreign gentleman , a I understand , be on a jaunt of pleasure to the same spot .
It would add incalculably to my own enjoyment , and I presume to that of my colleague and his friend , if they could be prevail upon to join our party . ''
This arrangement meet with approbation on all hand , nor be any of those concern more sensible of it advantage than myself , who have no title to be include in it .
Having already satisfy myself a to the several mode in which the four others attain felicity , I next set my mind at work to discover what enjoyment be peculiar to the old `` Straggler , '' a the people of the country would have term the wandering mendicant and prophet .
As he pretend to familiarity with the Devil , so I fancy that he be fit to pursue and take delight in his way of life , by possess some of the mental and moral characteristic , the light and more comic one , of the Devil in popular story .
Among them might be reckon a love of deception for it own sake , a shrewd eye and keen relish for human weakness and ridiculous infirmity , and the talent of petty fraud .
Thus to this old man there would be pleasure even in the consciousness , so insupportable to some mind , that his whole life be a cheat upon the world , and that , so far a he be concern with the public , his little cunning have the upper hand of it united wisdom .
Every day would furnish him with a succession of minute and pungent triumph : a when , for instance , his importunity wring a pittance out of the heart of a miser , or when my silly good-nature transfer a part of my slender purse to his plump leather bag ; or when some ostentatious gentleman should throw a coin to the ragged beggar who be rich than himself ; or when , though he would not always be so decidedly diabolical , his pretended want should make him a sharer in the scanty living of real indigence .
And then what an inexhaustible field of enjoyment , both a enable him to discern so much folly and achieve such quantity of minor mischief , be open to his sneer spirit by his pretension to prophetic knowledge .
All this be a sort of happiness which I could conceive of , though I have little sympathy with it .
Perhaps , have I be then incline to admit it , I might have find that the rove life be more proper to him than to either of his companion ; for Satan , to whom I have compare the poor man , have delight , ever since the time of Job , in `` wander up and down upon the earth '' ; and indeed a crafty disposition , which operate not in deep-laid plan , but in disconnected trick , could not have an adequate scope , unless naturally impel to a continual change of scene and society .
My reflection be here interrupt .
`` Another visitor ! ''
exclaim the old showman .
The door of the wagon have be close against the tempest , which be roar and bluster with prodigious fury and commotion , and beat violently against our shelter , a if it claim all those homeless people for it lawful prey , while we , care little for the displeasure of the element , sit comfortably talk .
There be now an attempt to open the door , succeed by a voice , utter some strange , unintelligible gibberish , which my companion mistake for Greek , and I suspect to be thief ' Latin .
However , the showman step forward , and give admittance to a figure which make me imagine ; either that our wagon have roll back two hundred year into past age , or that the forest and it old inhabitant have spring up around u by enchantment .
It be a red Indian , arm with his bow and arrow .
His dress be a sort of cap , adorn with a single feather of some wild bird , and a frock of blue cotton , gird tight about him ; on his breast , like order of knighthood , hang a crescent and a circle , and other ornament of silver ; while a small crucifix betoken that our Father the Pope have interpose between the Indian and the Great Spirit , whom he have worship in his simplicity .
This son of the wilderness , and pilgrim of the storm , take his place silently in the midst of u .
When the first surprise be over , I rightly conjecture him to be one of the Penobscot tribe , party of which I have often see , in their summer excursion down our Eastern river .
There they paddle their birch canoe among the coast schooner , and build their wigwam beside some roaring milldam , and drive a little trade in basket-work where their father hunt deer .
Our new visitor be probably wander through the country towards Boston , subsist on the careless charity of the people , while he turn his archery to profitable account by shoot at cent , which be to be the prize of his successful aim .
The Indian have not long be seat , ere our merry damsel seek to draw him into conversation .
She , indeed , seem all make up of sunshine in the mouth of May ; for there be nothing so dark and dismal that her pleasant mind could not cast a glow over it ; and the wild Indian , like a fir-tree in his native forest , soon begin to brighten into a sort of sombre cheerfulness .
At length , she inquire whether his journey have any particular end or purpose .
`` I go shoot at the camp-meeting at Stamford , '' reply the Indian .
`` And here be five more , '' say the girl , `` all aiming at the camp-meeting too .
You shall be one of u , for we travel with light heart ; and a for me , I sing merry song , and tell merry tale , and be full of merry thought , and I dance merrily along the road , so that there be never any sadness among them that keep me company .
But , O , you would find it very dull indeed , to go all the way to Stamford alone ! ''
My idea of the aboriginal character lead me to fear that the Indian would prefer his own solitary musing to the gay society thus offer him ; on the contrary , the girl 's proposal meet with immediate acceptance , and seem to animate him with a misty expectation of enjoyment .
I now give myself up to a course of thought which , whether it flow naturally from this combination of event , or be draw forth by a wayward fancy , cause my mind to thrill a if I be listen to deep music .
I saw mankind , in this weary old age of the world , either endure a sluggish existence amid the smoke and dust of city , or , if they breathe a purer air , still lie down at night with no hope but to wear out to-morrow , and all the to-morrows which make up life , among the same dull scene and in the same wretched toil that have darken the sunshine of to-day .
But there be some , full of the primeval instinct , who preserve the freshness of youth to their late year by the continual excitement of new object , new pursuit , and new associate ; and care little , though their birthplace might have be here in New England , if the grave should close over them in Central Asia .
Fate be summon a parliament of these free spirit ; unconscious of the impulse which direct them to a common centre , they have come hither from far and near ; and last of all appear the representative of those mighty vagrant , who have chase the deer during thousand of year , and be chase it now in the Spirit Land .
Wandering down through the waste of age , the wood have vanish around his path ; his arm have lose somewhat of it strength , his foot of it fleetness , his mien of it wild regality , his heart and mind of their savage virtue and uncultured force ; but here , untamable to the routine of artificial life , rove now along the dusty road , a of old over the forest leaf , here be the Indian still .
`` Well , '' say the old showman , in the midst of my meditation , `` here be an honest company of u , -- one , two , three , four , five , six , -- all go to the camp-meeting at Stamford .
Now , hop no offence , I should like to know where this young gentleman may be go ? ''
I start .
How come I among these wanderer ?
The free mind , that prefer it own folly to another 's wisdom ; the open spirit , that find companion everywhere ; above all , the restless impulse , that have so often make me wretched in the midst of enjoyment : these be my claim to be of their society .
`` My friend ! ''
cry I , step into the centre of the wagon , `` I be go with you to the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
`` But in what capacity ? ''
ask the old showman , after a moment 's silence .
`` All of u here can get our bread in some creditable way .
Every honest man should have his livelihood .
You , sir , a I take it , be a mere stroll gentleman . ''
I proceed to inform the company , that , when Nature give me a propensity to their way of life , she have not leave me altogether destitute of qualification for it ; though I could not deny that my talent be less respectable , and might be less profitable , than the mean of theirs .
My design , in short , be to imitate the storyteller of whom Oriental traveller have tell u , and become an itinerant novelist , recite my own extemporaneous fiction to such audience a I could collect .
`` Either this , '' say I , `` be my vocation , or I have be bear in vain . ''
The fortune-teller , with a sly wink to the company , propose to take me a an apprentice to one or other of his profession , either of which , undoubtedly , would have give full scope to whatever inventive talent I might possess .
The bibliopolist speak a few word in opposition to my plan , influence partly , I suspect , by the jealousy of authorship , and partly by an apprehension that the viva voce practice would become general among novelist , to the infinite detriment of the book-trade .
Dreading a rejection , I solicit the interest of the merry damsel .
`` Mirth , '' cry I , most aptly appropriate the word of L'Allegro , `` to thee I sue !
Mirth , admit me of thy crew ! ''
`` Let u indulge the poor youth , '' say Mirth , with a kindness which make me love her dearly , though I be no such coxcomb a to misinterpret her motif .
`` I have espy much promise in him .
True , a shadow sometimes flit across his brow , but the sunshine be sure to follow in a moment .
He be never guilty of a sad thought , but a merry one be twin bear with it .
We will take him with u ; and you shall see that he will set u all a-laughing before we reach the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
Her voice silence the scruple of the rest , and gain me admittance into the league ; accord to the term of which , without a community of good or profit , we be to lend each other all the aid , and avert all the harm , that might be in our power .
This affair settle , a marvellous jollity enter into the whole tribe of u , manifest itself characteristically in each individual .
The old showman , sit down to his barrel-organ , stir up the soul of the pygmy people with one of the quick tune in the music-book ; tailor , blacksmith , gentleman , and lady , all seem to share in the spirit of the occasion ; and the Merry-Andrew play his part more facetiously than ever , nod and wink particularly at me .
The young foreigner flourish his fiddle-bow with a master 's hand , and give an inspiring echo to the showman 's melody .
The bookish man and the merry damsel start up simultaneously to dance ; the former enact the double shuffle in a style which everybody must have witness , ere Election week be blot out of time ; while the girl , set her arm akimbo with both hand at her slim waist , display such light rapidity of foot , and harmony of vary attitude and motion , that I could not conceive how she ever be to stop ; imagining , at the moment , that Nature have make her , a the old showman have make his puppet , for no earthly purpose but to dance jig .
The Indian bellow forth a succession of most hideous outcry , somewhat afrighting u , till we interpret them a the war-song , with which , in imitation of his ancestor , he be preface the assault on Stamford .
The conjurer , meanwhile , sit demurely in a corner , extract a sly enjoyment from the whole scene , and , like the facetious Merry Andrew , direct his queer glance particularly at me .
As for myself , with great exhilaration of fancy , I begin to arrange and color the incident of a tale , wherewith I propose to amuse an audience that very even ; for I saw that my associate be a little ashamed of me , and that no time be to be lose in obtain a public acknowledgment of my ability .
`` Come , fellow-laborers , '' at last say the old showman , whom we have elect President ; `` the shower be over , and we must be do our duty by these poor soul at Stamford . ''
`` We 'll come among them in procession , with music and dancing , '' cry the merry damsel .
Accordingly -- for it must be understood that our pilgrimage be to be perform on foot -- we sallied joyously out of the wagon , each of u , even the old gentleman in his white-top boot , give a great skip a we come down the ladder .
Above our head there be such a glory of sunshine and splendor of cloud , and such brightness of verdure below , that , a I modestly remark at the time , Nature seem to have wash her face , and put on the best of her jewelry and a fresh green gown , in honor of our confederation .
Casting our eye northward , we behold a horseman approach leisurely , and splash through the little puddle on the Stamford road .
Onward he come , stick up in his saddle with rigid perpendicularity , a tall , thin figure in rusty black , whom the showman and the conjurer shortly recognize to be , what his aspect sufficiently indicate , a travel preacher of great fame among the Methodists .
What puzzle u be the fact , that his face appear turn from , instead of to , the camp-meeting at Stamford .
However , a this new votary of the wander life draw near the little green space , where the guidepost and our wagon be situate , my six fellow-vagabonds and myself rush forward and surround him , cry out with united voice , -- `` What news , what news from the camp-meeting at Stamford ? ''
The missionary look down , in surprise , at a singular a knot of people a could have be select from all his heterogeneous auditor .
Indeed , consider that we might all be classify under the general head of Vagabond , there be great diversity of character among the grave old showman , the sly , prophetic beggar , the fiddling foreigner and his merry damsel , the smart bibliopolist , the sombre Indian , and myself , the itinerant novelist , a slender youth of eighteen .
I even fancy that a smile be endeavor to disturb the iron gravity of the preacher 's mouth .
`` Good people , '' answer he , `` the camp-meeting be break up . ''
So say , the Methodist minister switch his steed , and ride westward .
Our union be thus nullify , by the removal of it object , we be sunder at once to the four wind of heaven .
The fortune-teller , give a nod to all , and a peculiar wink to me , depart on his northern tour , chuckle within himself a he take the Stamford road .
The old showman and his literary coadjutor be already tackle their horse to the wagon , with a design to peregrinate southwest along the seacoast .
The foreigner and the merry damsel take their laughing leave , and pursue the eastern road , which I have that day trodden ; a they pass away , the young man play a lively strain , and the girl 's happy spirit break into a dance ; and thus , dissolve , a it be , into sunbeam and gay music , that pleasant pair depart from my view .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Sister_Years_ ( From_ '' Twice_Told_Tales '' ) .txt.out
Last night , between eleven and twelve o'clock , when the Old Year be leave her final foot print on the border of Time 's empire , she find herself in possession of a few spare moment , and sit down -- of all place in the world -- on the step of our new City Hall .
The wintry moonlight show that she look weary of body , and sad of heart , like many another wayfarer of earth .
Her garment , have be expose to much foul weather , and rough usage , be in very ill condition ; and a the hurry of her journey have never before allow her to take an instant 's rest , her shoe be so worn a to be scarcely worth the mending .
But , after trudge only a little distance far , this poor Old Year be destine to enjoy a long , long sleep .
I forget to mention , that when she seat herself on the step , she deposit by her side a very capacious bandbox , in which , a be the custom among traveller of her sex , she carry a great deal of valuable property .
Besides this luggage , there be a folio book under her arm , very much resemble the annual volume of a newspaper .
Placing this volume across her knee , and rest her elbow upon it , with her forehead in her hand , the weary , bedraggle , world-worn Old Year heave a heavy sigh , and appear to be take no very pleasant retrospect of her past existence .
While she thus await the midnight knell , that be to summon her to the innumerable sisterhood of departed Years , there come a young maiden tread lightsomely on tiptoe along the street , from the direction of the Railroad Depot .
She be evidently a stranger , and perhaps have come to town by the evening train of car .
There be a smile cheerfulness in this fair maiden 's face , which bespeak her fully confident of a kind reception from the multitude of people , with whom she be soon to form acquaintance .
Her dress be rather too airy for the season , and be bedizen with fluttering ribbon and other vanity , which be likely soon to be rent away by the fierce storm , or to fade in the hot sunshine , amid which she be to pursue her changeful course .
But still she be a wonderfully pleasant look figure , and have so much promise and such an indescribable hopefulness in her aspect , that hardly anybody could meet her without anticipate some very desirable thing -- the consummation of some long-sought good -- from her kind office .
A few dismal character there may be , here and there about the world , who have so often be trifle with by young maiden as promise a she , that they have now cease to pin any faith upon the skirt of the New Year .
But , for my own part , I have great faith in her ; and should I live to see fifty more such , still , from each of those successive sister , I shall reckon upon receive something that will be worth live for .
The New Year -- for this young maiden be no less a personage -- carry all her good and chattel in a basket of no great size or weight , which hang upon her arm .
She greet the disconsolate Old Year with great affection , and sit down beside her on the step of the City Hall , wait for the signal to begin her ramble through the world .
The two be own sister , be both granddaughter of Time ; and though one look so much old than the other , it be rather owe to hardship and trouble than to age , since there be but a twelvemonth 's difference between them .
`` Well , my dear sister , '' say the New Year , after the first salutation , `` you look almost tire to death .
What have you be about during your sojourn in this part of Infinite Space ? ''
`` O , I have it all record here in my Book of Chronicles , '' answer the Old Year , in a heavy tone .
`` There be nothing that would amuse you ; and you will soon get sufficient knowledge of such matter from your own personal experience .
It be but tiresome reading . ''
Nevertheless , she turn over the leaf of the folio , and glance at them by the light of the moon , feel an irresistible spell of interest in her own biography , although it incident be remember without pleasure .
The volume , though she term it her Book of Chronicles , seem to be neither more nor less than the Salem Gazette for 1838 ; in the accuracy of which journal this sagacious Old Year have so much confidence , that she deem it needless to record her history with her own pen .
`` What have you be do in the political way ? ''
ask the New Year .
`` Why , my course here in the United States , '' say the Old Year , -- `` though perhaps I ought to blush at the confession , -- my political course , I must acknowledge , have be rather vacillatory , sometimes incline towards the Whigs , -- then cause the Administration party to shout for triumph , -- and now again uplift what seem the almost prostrate banner of the Opposition ; so that historian will hardly know what to make of me , in this respect .
But the Loco Focos -- '' `` I do not like these party nickname , '' interrupt her sister , who seem remarkably touchy about some point .
`` Perhaps we shall part in good humor , if we avoid any political discussion . ''
`` With all my heart , '' reply the Old Year , who have already be torment half to death with squabble of this kind .
`` I care not if the navy of Whig or Tory , with their interminable brawl about Banks and the Sub-Treasury , Abolition , Texas , the Florida War , and a million of other topic , -- which you will learn soon enough for your own comfort , -- I care not , I say , if no whisper of these matter ever reach my ear again .
Yet they have occupy so large a share of my attention , that I scarcely know what else to tell you .
There have indeed be a curious sort of war on the Canada border , where blood have stream in the name of Liberty and Patriotism ; but it must remain for some future , perhaps far distant Year , to tell whether or no those holy name have be rightfully invoke .
Nothing so much depresses me , in my view of mortal affair , a to see high energy waste , and human life and happiness throw away , for end that appear oftentimes unwise , and still oftener remain unaccomplished .
But the wise people and the best keep a steadfast faith that the progress of Mankind be onward and upward , and that the toil and anguish of the path serve to wear away the imperfection of the Immortal Pilgrim , and will be felt no more , when they have do their office . ''
`` Perhaps , '' cry the hopeful New Year , -- `` perhaps I shall see that happy day ! ''
`` I doubt whether it be so close at hand , '' answer the Old Year , gravely smile .
`` You will soon grow weary of look for that blessed consummation , and will turn for amusement -LRB- a have frequently be my own practice -RRB- to the affair of some sober little city , like this of Salem .
Here we sit on the step of the new City Hall , which have be complete under my administration ; and it would make you laugh to see how the game of politics , of which the Capitol at Washington be the great chess-board , be here play in miniature .
Burning Ambition find it fuel here ; here Patriotism speak boldly in the people 's behalf , and virtuous Economy demand retrenchment in the emolument of a lamplighter ; here the Aldermen range their senatorial dignity around the Mayor 's chair of state , and the Common Council feel that they have liberty in charge .
In short , human weakness and strength , passion and policy , Man 's tendency , his aim and mode of pursue them , his individual character , and his character in the mass , may be study almost as well here a on the theatre of nation ; and with this great advantage , that , be the lesson ever so disastrous , it Liliputian scope still make the beholder smile . ''
`` Have you do much for the improvement of the City ? ''
ask the New Year .
`` Judging from what little I have see , it appear to be ancient and timeworn . ''
`` I have open the Railroad , '' say the elder Year , `` and half a dozen time a day , you will hear the bell -LRB- which once summon the Monks of a Spanish Convent to their devotion -RRB- announce the arrival or departure of the car .
Old Salem now wear a much lively expression than when I first behold her .
Strangers rumble down from Boston by hundred at a time .
New face throng in Essex Street .
Railroad-hacks and omnibus rattle over the pavement .
There be a perceptible increase of oyster-shops , and other establishment for the accommodation of a transitory diurnal multitude .
But a more important change await the venerable town .
An immense accumulation of musty prejudice will be carry off by the free circulation of society .
A peculiarity of character , of which the inhabitant themselves be hardly sensible , will be rub down and wear away by the attrition of foreign substance .
Much of the result will be good ; there will likewise be a few thing not so good .
Whether for good or bad , there will be a probable diminution of the moral influence of wealth , and the sway of an aristocratic class , which , from an era far beyond my memory , have hold firm dominion here than in any other New England town . ''
The Old Year have talk away nearly all of her little remaining breath , now close her Book of Chronicles , and be about to take her departure .
But her sister detain her awhile longer , by inquire the content of the huge bandbox , which she be so painfully lug along with her .
`` These be merely a few trifle , '' reply the Old Year , `` which I have pick up in my ramble , and be go to deposit , in the receptacle of thing past and forgotten .
We sisterhood of Years never carry anything really valuable out of the world with u .
Here be pattern of most of the fashion which I bring into vogue , and which have already live out their allotted term .
You will supply their place , with others equally ephemeral .
Here , put up in little China pot , like rouge , be a considerable lot of beautiful woman 's bloom , which the disconsolate fair one owe me a bitter grudge for steal .
I have likewise a quantity of men 's dark hair , instead of which , I have leave gray lock , or none at all .
The tear of widow and other afflicted mortal , who have receive comfort during the last twelve month , be preserve in some dozen of essence-bottles , well cork and seal .
I have several bundle of love-letters , eloquently breathe an eternity of burn passion , which grow cold and perish , almost before the ink be dry .
Moreover , here be an assortment of many thousand broken promise , and other broken ware , all very light and pack into little space .
The heavy article in my possession be a large parcel of disappointed hope , which , a little while ago , be buoyant enough to have inflate Mr. Lauriat 's balloon . ''
`` I have a fine lot of hope here in my basket , '' remark the New Year .
`` They be a sweet-smelling flower , -- a specie of rise . ''
`` They soon lose their perfume , '' reply the sombre Old Year .
`` What else have you bring to insure a welcome from the discontented race of mortal ? ''
`` Why , to say the truth , little or nothing else , '' say her sister , with a smile , -- `` save a few new Annuals and Almanacs , and some New Year 's gift for the child .
But I heartily wish well to poor mortal , and mean to do all I can for their improvement and happiness . ''
`` It be a good resolution , '' rejoin the Old Year ; `` and , by the way , I have a plentiful assortment of good resolution , which have now grow so stale and musty , that I be ashamed to carry them any farther .
Only for fear that the City authority would send Constable Mansfield , with a warrant after me , I should toss them into the street at once .
Many other matter go to make up the content of my bandbox ; but the whole lot would not fetch a single bid , even at an auction of worn-out furniture ; and a they be worth nothing either to you or anybody else , I need not trouble you with a longer catalogue . ''
`` And must I also pickup such worthless luggage in my travel ? ''
ask the New Year .
`` Most certainly ; and well , if you have no heavy load to bear , '' reply the other .
`` And now , my dear sister , I must bid you farewell , earnestly advise and exhort you to expect no gratitude ` nor goodwill from this peevish , unreasonable , inconsiderate , ill-intending , and worse-behaving world .
However warmly it inhabitant may see to welcome you , yet , do what you may , and lavish on them what mean of happiness you please , they will still be complain , still crave what it be not in your power to give , still look forward to some other Year for the accomplishment of project which ought never to have be form , and which , if successful , would only provide new occasion of discontent .
If these ridiculous people ever see anything tolerable in you , it will be after you be go forever . ''
`` But I , '' cry the fresh-hearted New Year , -- `` I shall try to leave men wise than I find them .
I will offer them freely whatever good gift Providence permit me to distribute , and will tell them to be thankful for what they have , and humbly hopeful for more ; and surely , if they be not absolute fool , they will condescend to be happy , and will allow me to be a happy Year .
For my happiness must depend on them . ''
`` Alas for you , then , my poor sister ! ''
say the Old fear , sigh , a she uplift her burden .
`` We grand-children of Time be bear to trouble .
Happiness , they say , dwells in the mansion of Eternity ; but we can only lead mortal thither , step by step , with reluctant murmuring , and ourselves must perish on the threshold .
But hark !
my task be do . ''
The clock in the tall steeple of Dr. Emerson 's church strike twelve ; there be a response from Dr. Flint 's , in the opposite quarter of the city ; and while the stroke be yet drop into the air , the Old Year either flit or fade away ; and not the wisdom and might of Angels , to say nothing of the remorseful yearning of the million who have use her ill , could have prevail with that depart Year to return one step .
But she , in the company of Time and all her kindred , must hereafter hold a reckoning with Mankind .
So shall it be , likewise , with the maidenly New Year , who , a the clock cease to strike , arise from the step of the City Hall , and set out rather timorously on her earthly course .
`` A happy New Year ! ''
cry a watchman , eye her figure very questionably , but without the least suspicion that he be address the New Year in person .
`` Thank you kindly ! ''
say the New Year ; and she give the watchman one of the rose of hope from her basket .
`` May this flower keep a sweet smell , long after I have bid you good by . ''
Then she step on more briskly through the silent street ; and such a be awake at the moment , hear her footfall , and say , `` The New Year be come ! ''
Wherever there be a knot of midnight roisterer , they quaff her health .
She sigh , however , to perceive that the air be taint -- a the atmosphere of this world must continually be -- with the die breath of mortal who have linger just long enough for her to bury them .
But there be million leave alive , to rejoice at her come ; and so she pursue her way with confidence , strew emblematic flower on the doorstep of almost every dwelling , which some person will gather up and wear in their bosom , and others will trample under foot .
The Carrier Boy can only say far , that , early this morning , she fill his basket with New Year 's Addresses , assure him that the whole City , with our new Mayor , and the Aldermen and Common Council at it head , would make a general rush to secure copy .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Three_Golden_Apples.txt.out
INTRODUCTORY TO `` THE THREE GOLDEN APPLES '' The snow-storm last another day ; but what become of it afterwards , I can not possibly imagine .
At any rate , it entirely clear away , during the night ; and when the sun arose , the next morning , it shine brightly down on a bleak a tract of hill-country , here in Berkshire , a could be see anywhere in the world .
The frost-work have so cover the windowpane that it be hardly possible to get a glimpse at the scenery outside .
But , while wait for breakfast , the small populace of Tanglewood have scratch peephole with their finger-nails , and saw with vast delight that -- unless it be one or two bare patch on a precipitous hillside , or the gray effect of the snow , intermingle with the black pine forest -- all nature be as white a a sheet .
How exceedingly pleasant !
And , to make it all the good , it be cold enough to nip one 's nose short off !
If people have but life enough in them to bear it , there be nothing that so raise the spirit , and make the blood ripple and dance so nimbly , like a brook down the slope of a hill , a a bright , hard frost .
No sooner be breakfast over , than the whole party , well muffle in fur and woollen , flounder forth into the midst of the snow .
Well , what a day of frosty sport be this !
They slide down hill into the valley , a hundred time , nobody know how far ; and , to make it all the merrier , upset their sledge , and tumble head over heel , quite as often a they come safely to the bottom .
And , once , Eustace Bright take Periwinkle , Sweet Fern , and Squash-blossom , on the sledge with him , by way of insure a safe passage ; and down they go , full speed .
But , behold , half-way down , the sledge hit against a hidden stump , and fling all four of it passenger into a heap ; and , on gather themselves up , there be no little Squash-blossom to be find !
Why , what could have become of the child ?
And while they be wonder and star about , up start Squash-blossom out of a snow-bank , with the red face you ever saw , and look a if a large scarlet flower have suddenly sprout up in midwinter .
Then there be a great laugh .
When they have grow tire of slide down hill , Eustace set the child to dig a cave in the big snow-drift that they could find .
Unluckily , just a it be complete , and the party have squeeze themselves into the hollow , down come the roof upon their head , and bury every soul of them alive !
The next moment , up pop all their little head out of the ruin , and the tall student 's head in the midst of them , look hoary and venerable with the snow-dust that have get amongst his brown curl .
And then , to punish Cousin Eustace for advise them to dig such a tumble-down cavern , the child attack him in a body , and so bepelted him with snowball that he be fain to take to his heel .
So he run away , and go into the wood , and thence to the margin of Shadow Brook , where he could hear the streamlet grumble along , under great overhang bank of snow and ice , which would scarcely let it see the light of day .
There be adamantine icicle glitter around all it little cascade .
Thence be stroll to the shore of the lake , and behold a white , untrodden plain before him , stretch from his own foot to the foot of Monument Mountain .
And , it be now almost sunset , Eustace think that he have never behold anything so fresh and beautiful a the scene .
He be glad that the child be not with him ; for their lively spirit and tumble-about activity would quite have chase away his high and graver mood , so that he would merely have be merry -LRB- a he have already be , the whole day long -RRB- , and would not have know the loveliness of the winter sunset among the hill .
When the sun be fairly down , our friend Eustace go home to eat his supper .
After the meal be over , he betook himself to the study , with a purpose , I rather imagine , to write an ode , or two or three sonnet , or verse of some kind or other , in praise of the purple and golden cloud which he have see around the setting sun .
But , before he have hammer out the very first rhyme , the door open , and Primrose and Periwinkle make their appearance .
`` Go away , child !
I ca n't be trouble with you now ! ''
cry the student , look over his shoulder , with the pen between his finger .
`` What in the world do you want here ?
I think you be all in bed ! ''
`` Hear him , Periwinkle , try to talk like a grown man ! ''
say Primrose .
`` And he seem to forget that I be now thirteen year old , and may sit up almost as late a I please .
But , Cousin Eustace , you must put off your air , and come with u to the drawing-room .
The child have talk so much about your story , that my father wish to hear one of them , in order to judge whether they be likely to do any mischief . ''
`` Poh , poh , Primrose ! ''
exclaim the student , rather vexed .
`` I do n't believe I can tell one of my story in the presence of grown people .
Besides , your father be a classical scholar ; not that I be much afraid of his scholarship , neither , for I doubt not it be as rusty a an old case-knife , by this time .
But then he will be sure to quarrel with the admirable nonsense that I put into these story , out of my own head , and which make the great charm of the matter for child , like yourself .
No man of fifty , who have read the classical myth in his youth , can possibly understand my merit a a re-inventor and improver of them . ''
`` All this may be very true , '' say Primrose , `` but come you must !
My father will not open his book , nor will mamma open the piano , till you have give u some of your nonsense , a you very correctly call it .
So be a good boy , and come along . ''
Whatever he might pretend , the student be rather glad than otherwise , on second thought , to catch at the opportunity of prove to Mr. Pringle what an excellent faculty he have in modernize the myth of ancient time .
Until twenty year of age , a young man may , indeed , be rather bashful about show his poetry and his prose ; but , for all that , he be pretty apt to think that these very production would place him at the tip-top of literature , if once they could be know .
Accordingly , without much more resistance , Eustace suffer Primrose and Periwinkle to drag him into the drawing-room .
It be a large handsome apartment , with a semicircular window at one end , in the recess of which stand a marble copy of Greenough 's Angel and Child .
On one side of the fireplace there be many shelf of book , gravely but richly bound .
The white light of the astrallamp , and the red glow of the bright coal-fire , make the room brilliant and cheerful ; and before the fire , in a deep arm-chair , sit Mr. Pringle , look just fit to be seat in such a chair , and in such a room .
He be a tall and quite a handsome gentleman , with a bald brow ; and be always so nicely dress , that even Eustace Bright never like to enter his presence , without at least pause at the threshold to settle his shirt-collar .
But now , a Primrose have hold of one of his hand , and Periwinkle of the other , he be force to make his appearance with a rough-and-tumble sort of look , a if he have be roll all day in a snow-bank .
And so he have .
Mr. Pringle turn towards the student , benignly enough , but in a way that make him feel how uncombed and unbrushed he be , and how uncombed and unbrushed , likewise , be his mind and thought .
`` Eustace , '' say Mr. Pringle , with a smile , `` I find that you be produce a great sensation among the little public of Tanglewood , by the exercise of your gift of narrative .
Primrose here , a the little folk choose to call her , and the rest of the child , have be so loud in praise of your story , that Mrs. Pringle and myself be really curious to hear a specimen .
It would be so much the more gratifying to myself , a the story appear to be an attempt to render the fable of classical antiquity into the idiom of modern fancy and feeling .
At least , so I judge from a few of the incident , which have come to me at second hand . ''
`` You be not exactly the auditor that I should have choose , sir , '' observe the student , `` for fantasy of this nature . ''
`` Possibly not , '' reply Mr. Pringle .
`` I suspect , however , that a young author 's most useful critic be precisely the one whom he would be least apt to choose .
Pray oblige me , therefore . ''
`` Sympathy , methinks , should have some little share in the critic 's qualification , '' murmur Eustace Bright .
`` However , sir , if you will find patience , I will find story .
But be kind enough to remember that I be address myself to the imagination and sympathy of the child , not to your own . ''
Accordingly , the student snatch hold of the first theme which present itself .
It be suggest by a plate of apple that he happen to spy on the mantel-piece .
THE THREE GOLDEN APPLES .
Did you ever hear of the golden apple , that grow in the garden of the Hesperides ?
Ah , those be such apple a would bring a great price , by the bushel , if any of them could be find grow in the orchard of nowadays !
But there be not , I suppose , a graft of that wonderful fruit on a single tree in the wide world .
Not so much a a seed of those apple exist any longer .
And , even in the old , old , half-forgotten time , before the garden of the Hesperides be overrun with weed , a great many people doubt whether there could be real tree that bore apple of solid gold upon their branch .
All have hear of them , but nobody remember to have see any .
Children , nevertheless , use to listen , open-mouthed , to story of the golden apple-tree , and resolve to discover it , when they should be big enough .
Adventurous young men , who desire to do a braver thing than any of their fellow , set out in quest of this fruit .
Many of them return no more ; none of them bring back the apple .
No wonder that they find it impossible to gather them !
It be say that there be a dragon beneath the tree , with a hundred terrible head , fifty of which be always on the watch , while the other fifty slept .
In my opinion it be hardly worth run so much risk for the sake of a solid golden apple .
Had the apple be sweet , mellow , and juicy , indeed that would be another matter .
There might then have be some sense in try to get at them , in spite of the hundred-headed dragon .
But , a I have already tell you , it be quite a common thing with young person , when tire of too much peace and rest , to go in search of the garden of the Hesperides .
And once the adventure be undertake by a hero who have enjoy very little peace or rest since he come into the world .
At the time of which I be go to speak , he be wander through the pleasant land of Italy , with a mighty club in his hand , and a bow and quiver slung across his shoulder .
He be wrapt in the skin of the big and fierce lion that ever have be see , and which he himself have kill ; and though , on the whole , he be kind , and generous , and noble , there be a good deal of the lion 's fierceness in his heart .
As he go on his way , he continually inquire whether that be the right road to the famous garden .
But none of the country people know anything about the matter , and many look a if they would have laugh at the question , if the stranger have not carry so very big a club .
So he journey on and on , still make the same inquiry , until , at last , he come to the brink of a river where some beautiful young woman sit twin wreath of flower .
`` Can you tell me , pretty maidens , '' ask the stranger , `` whether this be the right way to the garden of the Hesperides ? ''
The young woman have be have a fine time together , weave the flower into wreath , and crown one another 's head .
And there seem to be a kind of magic in the touch of their finger , that make the flower more fresh and dewy , and of brighter line , and sweeter fragrance , while they play with them , than even when they have be grow on their native stem .
But , on hear the stranger 's question , they drop all their flower on the grass , and gaze at him with astonishment .
`` The garden of the Hesperides ! ''
cried one .
`` We think mortal have be weary of seek it , after so many disappointment .
And pray , adventurous traveller , what do you want there ? ''
`` A certain king , who be my cousin , '' reply he , `` have order me to get him three of the golden apple . ''
`` Most of the young men who go in quest of these apple , '' observe another of the damsel , `` desire to obtain them for themselves , or to present them to some fair maiden whom they love .
Do you , then , love this king , your cousin , so very much ? ''
`` Perhaps not , '' reply the stranger , sigh .
`` He have often be severe and cruel to me .
But it be my destiny to obey him . ''
`` And do you know , '' ask the damsel who have first speak , `` that a terrible dragon , with a hundred head , keep watch under the golden apple-tree ? ''
`` I know it well , '' answer the stranger , calmly .
`` But , from my cradle upwards , it have be my business , and almost my pastime , to deal with serpent and dragon . ''
The young woman look at his massive club , and at the shaggy lion 's skin which he wear , and likewise at his heroic limb and figure ; and they whisper to each other that the stranger appear to be one who might reasonably expect to perform deed far beyond the might of other men .
But , then , the dragon with a hundred head !
What mortal , even if he possess a hundred life , could hope to escape the fang of such a monster ?
So kind-hearted be the maiden , that they could not bear to see this brave and , handsome traveller attempt what be so very dangerous , and devote himself , most probably , to become a meal for the dragon 's hundred ravenous mouth .
`` Go back , '' cry they all , -- `` go back to your own home !
Your mother , behold you safe and sound , will shed tear of joy ; and what can she do more , should you win ever so great a victory ?
No matter for the golden apple !
No matter for the king , your cruel cousin !
We do not wish the dragon with the hundred head to eat you up ! ''
The stranger seem to grow impatient at these remonstrance .
He carelessly lift his mighty club , and let it fall upon a rock that lay half bury in the earth , near by .
With the force of that idle blow , the great rock be shatter all to piece .
It cost the stranger no more effort to achieve this feat of a giant 's strength than for one of the young maiden to touch her sister 's rosy cheek with a flower .
`` Do you not believe , '' say he , look at the damsel with a smile , `` that such a blow would have crush one of the dragon 's hundred head ? ''
Then he sit down on the grass , and tell them the story of his life , or as much of it a he could remember , from the day when he be first cradle in a warrior 's brazen shield .
While he lay there , two immense serpent come glide over the floor , and open their hideous jaw to devour him ; and he , a baby of a few month old , have grip one of the fierce snake in each of his little fist , and strangle them to death .
When he be but a stripling , he have kill a huge lion , almost as big a the one whose vast and shaggy hide he now wear upon his shoulder .
The next thing that he have do be to fight a battle with an ugly sort of monster , call a hydra , which have no less than nine head , and exceedingly sharp teeth in every one of them .
`` But the dragon of the Hesperides , you know , '' observe one of the damsel , `` have a hundred head ! ''
`` Nevertheless , '' reply the stranger , `` I would rather fight two such dragon than a single hydra .
For , as fast a I cut off a head , two others grow in it place ; and , besides , there be one of the head that could not possibly be kill , but keep biting as fiercely a ever , long after it be cut off .
So I be force to bury it under a stone , where it be doubtless alive , to this vary day .
But the hydra 's body , and it eight other head , will never do any further mischief . ''
The damsel , judge that the story be likely to last a good while , have be prepare a repast of bread and grape , that the stranger might refresh himself in the interval of his talk .
They take pleasure in help him to this simple food ; and , now and then , one of them would put a sweet grape between her rosy lip , lest it should make him bashful to eat alone .
The traveller proceed to tell how he have chase a very swift stag , for a twelve-month together , without ever stop to take breath , and have at last caught it by the antler , and carry it home alive .
And he have fight with a very odd race of people , half horse and half men , and have put them all to death , from a sense of duty , in order that their ugly figure might never be see any more .
Besides all this , he take to himself great credit for have clean out a stable .
`` Do you call that a wonderful exploit ? ''
ask one of the young maiden , with a smile .
`` Any clown in the country have do a much ! ''
`` Had it be an ordinary stable , '' reply the stranger , `` I should not have mention it .
But this be so gigantic a task that it would have take me all my life to perform it , if I have not luckily think of turn the channel of a river through the stable-door .
That do the business in a very short time ! ''
Seeing how earnestly his fair auditor listen , he next tell them how he have shoot some monstrous bird , and have catch a wild bull alive , and let him go again , and have tame a number of very wild horse , and have conquer Hippolyta , the warlike queen of the Amazons .
He mention , likewise , that he have take off Hippolyta 's enchanted girdle , and have give it to the daughter of his cousin , the king .
`` Was it the girdle of Venus , '' inquire the prettiest of the damsel , `` which make woman beautiful ? ''
`` No , '' answer the stranger .
`` It have formerly be the sword-belt of Mars ; and it can only make the wearer valiant and courageous . ''
`` An old sword-belt ! ''
cry the damsel , toss her head .
`` Then I should not care about have it ! ''
`` You be right , '' say the stranger .
Going on with his wonderful narrative , he inform the maiden that a strange an adventure a ever happen be when he fight with Geryon , the six-legged man .
This be a very odd and frightful sort of figure , a you may well believe .
Any person , look at his track in the sand or snow , would suppose that three sociable companion have be walk along together .
On hear his footstep at , a little distance , it be no more than reasonable to judge that several people must be come .
But it be only the strange man Geryon clatter onward , with his six leg !
Six leg , and one gigantic body !
Certainly , he must have be a very queer monster to look at ; and , my star , what a waste of shoe-leather !
When the stranger have finish the story of his adventure , he look around at the attentive face of the maiden .
`` Perhaps you may have heard of me before , '' say he , modestly .
`` My name be Hercules ! ''
`` We have already guess it , '' reply the maiden ; `` for your wonderful deed be know all over the world .
We do not think it strange , any longer , that you should set out in quest of the golden apple of the Hesperides .
Come , sister , let u crown the hero with flower ! ''
Then they fling beautiful wreath over his stately head and mighty shoulder , so that the lion 's skin be almost entirely cover with rose .
They take possession of his ponderous club , and so entwine it about with the bright , soft , and most fragrant blossom , that not a finger 's breadth of it oaken substance could be see .
It look all like a huge bunch of flower .
Lastly , they join hand , and dance around him , chant word which become poetry of their own accord , and grow into a choral song , in honor of the illustrious Hercules .
And Hercules be rejoice , a any other hero would have be , to know that these fair young girl have hear of the valiant deeds which it have cost him so much toil and danger to achieve .
But , still , he be not satisfy .
He could not think that what he have already do be worthy of so much honor , while there remain any bold or difficult adventure to be undertake .
`` Dear maiden , '' say he , when they pause to take breath , `` now that you know my name , will you not tell me how I be to reach the garden of the Hesperides ? ''
`` Ah !
must you go so soon ? ''
they exclaim .
`` You -- that have perform so many wonder , and spend such a toilsome life -- can not you content yourself to repose a little while on the margin of this peaceful river ? ''
Hercules shake his head .
`` I must depart now , '' say he .
`` We will then give you the best direction we can , '' reply the damsel .
`` You must go to the sea-shore , and find out the Old One , and compel him to inform you where the golden apple be to be find . ''
`` The Old One ! ''
repeat Hercules , laugh at this odd name .
`` And , pray , who may the Old One be ? ''
`` Why , the Old Man of the Sea , to be sure ! ''
answered one of the damsel .
`` He have fifty daughter , whom some people call very beautiful ; but we do not think it proper to be acquaint with them , because they have sea-green hair , and taper away like fish .
You must talk with this Old Man of the Sea .
He be a sea-faring person , and know all about the garden of the Hesperides ; for it be situate in an island which he be often in the habit of visit . ''
Hercules then ask whereabouts the Old One be most likely to be meet with .
When the damsel have inform him , he thank them for all their kindness , -- for the bread and grape with which they have feed him , the lovely flower with which they have crown him , and the song and dance wherewith they have do him honor , -- and he thank them , most of all , for tell him the right way , -- and immediately set forth upon his Journey .
But , before he be out of hearing , one of the maiden call after him .
`` Keep fast hold of the Old-One , when you catch him ! ''
cry she , smile , and lift her finger to make the caution more impressive .
`` Do not be astonish at anything that may happen .
Only hold him fast , and he will tell you what you wish to know . ''
Hercules again thank her , and pursue his way , while the maiden resume their pleasant labor of make flower-wreaths .
They talk about the hero , long after he be go .
`` We will crown him with the lovely of our garland , '' say they , `` when he return hither with the three golden apple , after slay the dragon with a hundred head . ''
Meanwhile , Hercules travel constantly onward , over hill and dale , and through the solitary wood .
Sometimes he swing his club aloft , and splinter a mighty oak with a downright blow .
His mind be so full of the giant and monster with whom it be the business of his life to fight , that perhaps he mistake the great tree for a giant or a monster .
And so eager be Hercules to achieve what he have undertake , that he almost regret to have spend so much time with the damsel , waste idle breath upon the story of his adventure .
But thus it always be with person who be destine to perform great thing .
What they have already do seem less than nothing .
What they have take in hand to do seem worth toil , danger , and life itself .
Persons who happen to be pass through the forest must have be affright to see him smite the tree with his great club .
With but a single blow , the trunk be rive a by the stroke of lightning , and the broad bough come rustle and crash down .
Hastening forward , without ever pause or look behind , he by and by heard the sea roaring at a distance .
At this sound , he increase his speed , and soon come to a beach , where the great surf-waves tumble themselves upon the hard sand , in a long line of snowy foam .
At one end of the beach , however , there be a pleasant spot , where some green shrubbery clamber up a cliff , make it rocky face look soft and beautiful .
A carpet of verdant grass , largely intermixed with sweet-smelling clover , cover the narrow space between the bottom of the cliff and the sea .
And what should Hercules espy there , but an old man , fast asleep !
But be it really and truly an old man ?
Certainly , at first sight , it look very like one ; but , on close inspection , it rather seem to be some kind of a creature that live in the sea .
For , on his leg and arm there be scale , such a fish have ; he be web-footed and web-fingered , after the fashion of a duck ; and his long beard , be of a greenish tinge , have more the appearance of a tuft of sea-weed than of an ordinary beard .
Have you never see a stick of timber , that have be long toss about by the wave , and have get all overgrown with barnacle , and , at last drifting ashore , seem to have be throw up from the very deep bottom of the sea ?
Well , the old man would have put you in mind of just such a wave-tost spar !
But Hercules , the instant he set eye on this strange figure , be convince that it could be no other than the Old One , who be to direct him on his way .
Yes ; it be the selfsame Old Man of the Sea , whom the hospitable maiden have talk to him about .
Thanking his star for the lucky accident of find the old fellow asleep , Hercules steal on tiptoe towards him , and catch him by the arm and leg .
`` Tell me , '' cry he , before the Old One be well awake , `` which be the way to the garden of the Hesperides ? ''
As you may easily imagine , the Old Man of the Sea awoke in a fright .
But his astonishment could hardly have be great than be that of Hercules , the next moment .
For , all of a sudden , the Old One seem to disappear out of his grasp , and he find himself hold a stag by the fore and hind leg !
But still he keep fast hold .
Then the stag disappear , and in it stead there be a sea-bird , fluttering and screaming , while Hercules clutch it by the wing and claw !
But the bird could not get away .
Immediately afterwards , there be an ugly three-headed dog , which growl and bark at Hercules , and snap fiercely at the hand by which he hold him !
But Hercules would not let him go .
In another minute , instead of the three-headed dog , what should appear but Geryon , the six-legged man-monster , kick at Hercules with five of his leg , in order to get the remain one at liberty !
But Hercules hold on .
By and by , no Geryou be there , but a huge snake , like one of those which Hercules have strangle in his babyhood , only a hundred time a big , and it twist and twin about the hero 's neck and body , and throw it tail high into the air , and open it deadly jaw a if to devour him outright ; so that it be really a very terrible spectacle !
But Hercules be no whit dishearten , and squeeze the great snake so tightly that he soon begin to hiss with pain .
You must understand that the Old Man of the Sea , though he generally look so much like the wave-beaten figure-head of a vessel , have the power of assume any shape he please .
When he find himself so roughly seize by Hercules , he have be in hope of put him into such surprise and terror , by these magical transformation , that the hero would be glad to let him go .
If Hercules have relax his grasp , the Old One would certainly have plunge down to the very bottom of the sea , whence he would not soon have give himself the trouble of come up , in order to answer any impertinent question .
Ninety-nine people out of a hundred , I suppose , would have be frighten out of their wit by the very first of his ugly shape , and would have take to their heel at once .
For , one of the hard thing in this world be , to see the difference between real danger and imaginary one .
But , a Hercules hold on so stubbornly , and only squeeze the Old One so much the tighter at every change of shape , and really put him to no small torture , he finally think it best to reappear in his own figure .
So there he be again , a fishy , scaly , webfooted sort of personage , with something like a tuft of sea-weed at his chin .
`` Pray , what do you want with me ? ''
cry the Old One , as soon a he could take breath ; for it be quite a tiresome affair to go through so many false shape .
`` Why do you squeeze me so hard ?
Let me go , this moment , or I shall begin to consider you an extremely uncivil person ! ''
`` My name be Hercules ! ''
roar the mighty stranger .
`` And you will never get out of my clutch , until you tell me the near way to the garden of the Hesperides ! ''
When the old fellow heard who it be that have catch him , he saw , with half an eye , that it would be necessary to tell him everything that he want to know .
The Old One be an inhabitant of the sea , you must recollect , and roam about everywhere , like other sea-faring people .
Of course , he have often hear of the fame of Hercules , and of the wonderful thing that he be constantly perform , in various part of the earth , and how determine he always be to accomplish whatever he undertake .
He therefore make no more attempt to escape , but tell the hero how to find the garden of the Hesperides , and likewise warn him of many difficulty which must be overcome , before he could arrive thither .
`` You must go on , thus and thus , '' say the Old Man of the Sea , after take the point of the compass , `` till you come in sight of a very tall giant , who hold the sky on his shoulder .
And the giant , if he happen to be in the humor , will tell you exactly where the garden of the Hesperides lie . ''
`` And if the giant happen not to be in the humor , '' remark Hercules , balance his club on the tip of his finger , `` perhaps I shall find mean to persuade him ! ''
Thanking the Old Man of the Sea , and beg his pardon for have squeeze him so roughly , the hero resume his journey .
He meet with a great many strange adventure , which would be well worth your hearing , if I have leisure to narrate them as minutely a they deserve .
It be in this journey , if I mistake not , that he encounter a prodigious giant , who be so wonderfully contrive by nature , that , every time he touch the earth , he become ten time as strong a ever he have be before .
His name be Antreus .
You may see , plainly enough , that it be a very difficult business to fight with such a fellow ; for , as often a he get a knock-down blow , up he start again , strong , fiercer , and abler to use his weapon , than if his enemy have let him alone , Thus , the harder Hercules pound the giant with his club , the further be seem from win the victory .
I have sometimes argue with such people , but never fight with one .
The only way in which Hercules find it possible to finish the battle , be by lift Antaeus off his foot into the air , and squeezing , and squeezing , and squeeze him , until , finally , the strength be quite squeeze out of his enormous body .
When this affair be finish , Hercules continue his travel , and go to the land of Egypt , where he be take prisoner , and would have be put to death , if he have not slay the king of the country , and make his escape .
Passing through the desert of Africa , and go as fast a he could , he arrive at last on the shore of the great ocean .
And here , unless he could walk on the crest of the billow , it seem a if his journey must need be at an end .
Nothing be before him , save the foaming , dash , measureless ocean .
But , suddenly , a he look towards the horizon , he saw something , a great way off , which he have not see the moment before .
It gleam very brightly , almost a you may have behold the round , golden disk of the sun , when it rise or set over the edge of the world .
It evidently draw nearer ; for , at every instant , this wonderful object become large and more lustrous .
At length , it have come so nigh that Hercules discover it to be an immense cup or bowl , make either of gold or burnish brass .
How it have get afloat upon the sea , be more than I can tell you .
There it be , at all event , roll on the tumultuous billow , which toss it up and down , and heave their foamy top against it side , but without ever throw their spray over the brim .
`` I have see many giant , in my time , '' think Hercules , `` but never one that would need to drink his wine out of a cup like this ! ''
And , true enough , what a cup it must have be !
It be a large -- a large -- but , in short , I be afraid to say how immeasurably large it be .
To speak within bound , it be ten time large than a great mill-wheel ; and , all of metal a it be , it float over the heaving surge more lightly than an acorn-cup adown the brook .
The wave tumble it onward , until it graze against the shore , within a short distance of the spot where Hercules be stand .
As soon a this happen , he know what be to be do ; for he have not go through so many remarkable adventure without learn pretty well how to conduct himself , whenever anything come to pass a little out of the common rule .
It be just as clear a daylight that this marvellous cup have be set adrift by some unseen power , and guide hitherward , in order to carry Hercules across the sea , on his way to the garden of the Hesperides .
Accordingly , without a moment 's delay , he clamber over the brim , and slide down on the inside , where , spread out his lion 's skin , he proceed to take a little repose .
He have scarcely rest , until now , since he bid farewell to the damsel on the margin of the river .
The wave dash , with a pleasant and ring sound , against the circumference of the hollow cup ; it rock lightly to and fro , and the motion be so soothing that , it speedily rock Hercules into an agreeable slumber .
His nap have probably last a good while , when the cup chance to graze against a rock , and , in consequence , immediately resound and reverberate through it golden or brazen substance , a hundred time as loudly a ever you hear a church-bell .
The noise awoke Hercules , who instantly start up and gaze around him , wonder whereabouts he be .
He be not long in discover that the cup have float across a great part of the sea , and be approach the shore of what seem to be an island .
And , on that island , what do you think he saw ?
No ; you will never guess it , not if you be to try fifty thousand time !
It positively appear to me that this be the most marvellous spectacle that have ever be see by Hercules , in the whole course of his wonderful travel and adventure .
It be a great marvel than the hydra with nine head , which keep grow twice as fast a they be cut off ; great than the six-legged man-monster ; great than Antreus ; great than anything that be ever behold by anybody , before or since the day of Hercules , or than anything that remain to be behold , by traveller in all time to come .
It be a giant !
But such an intolerably big giant !
A giant a tall a a mountain ; so vast a giant , that the cloud rest about his midst , like a girdle , and hung like a hoary beard from his chin , and flit before his huge eye , so that he could neither see Hercules nor the golden cup in which he be voyage .
And , most wonderful of all , the giant hold up his great hand and appear to support the sky , which , so far a Hercules could discern through the cloud , be rest upon his head !
This do really seem almost too much to believe .
Meanwhile , the bright cup continue to float onward , and finally touch the strand .
Just then a breeze waft away the cloud from before the giant 's visage , and Hercules behold it , with all it enormous feature ; eye each of them as big a yonder lake , a nose a mile Long , and a mouth of the same width .
It be a countenance terrible from it enormity of size , but disconsolate and weary , even a you may see the face of many people , nowadays , who be compel to sustain burden above their strength .
What the sky be to the giant , such be the care of earth to those who let themselves be weigh down by them .
And whenever men undertake what be beyond the just measure of their ability , they encounter precisely such a doom a have befall this poor giant .
Poor fellow !
He have evidently stand there a long while .
An ancient forest have be grow and decay around his foot ; and oak-trees , of six or seven century old , have spring from the acorn , and force themselves between his toe .
The giant now look down from the far height of his great eye , and , perceive Hercules , roar out , in a voice that resemble thunder , proceed out of the cloud that have just flit away from his face .
`` Who be you , down at my foot there ?
And whence do you come , in that little cup ? ''
`` I be Hercules ! ''
thunder back the hero , in a voice pretty nearly or quite as loud a the giant 's own .
`` And I be seek for the garden of the Hesperides ! ''
`` Ho !
ho !
ho ! ''
roar the giant , in a fit of immense laughter .
`` That be a wise adventure , truly ! ''
`` And why not ? ''
cried Hercules , get a little angry at the giant 's mirth .
`` Do you think I be afraid of the dragon with a hundred head ! ''
Just at this time , while they be talk together , some black cloud gather about the giant 's middle , and burst into a tremendous storm of thunder and lightning , cause such a pother that Hercules find it impossible to distinguish a word .
Only the giant 's immeasurable leg be to be see , stand up into the obscurity of the tempest ; and , now and then , a momentary glimpse of his whole figure , mantle in a volume of mist .
He seem to be speak , most of the time ; but his big , deep , rough voice chime in with the reverberation of the thunder-claps , and roll away over the hill , like them .
Thus , by talk out of season , the foolish giant expend an incalculable quantity of breath , to no purpose ; for the thunder speak quite as intelligibly a he .
At last , the storm swept over , as suddenly a it have come .
And there again be the clear sky , and the weary giant hold it up , and the pleasant sunshine beaming over his vast height , and illuminate it against the background of the sullen thunder-clouds .
So far above the shower have be his head , that not a hair of it be moisten by the rain-drops !
When the giant could see Hercules still stand on the sea-shore , he roar out to him anew .
`` I be Atlas , the mighty giant in the world !
And I hold the sky upon my head ! ''
`` So I see , '' answer Hercules .
`` But , can you show me the way to the garden of the Hesperides ? ''
`` What do you want there ? ''
ask the giant .
`` I want three of the golden apple , '' shout Hercules , `` for my cousin , the king . ''
`` There be nobody but myself , '' quoth the giant , `` that can go to the garden of the Hesperides , and gather the golden apple .
If it be not for this little business of hold up the sky , I would make half a dozen step across the sea , and get them for you . ''
`` You be very kind , '' reply Hercules .
`` And can not you rest the sky upon a mountain ? ''
`` None of them be quite high enough , '' say Atlas , shake his head .
`` But , if you be to take your stand on the summit of that near one , your head would be pretty nearly on a level with mine .
You seem to be a fellow of some strength .
What if you should take my burden on your shoulder , while I do your errand for you ? ''
Hercules , a you must be careful to remember , be a remarkably strong man ; and though it certainly require a great deal of muscular power to uphold the sky , yet , if any mortal could be suppose capable of such an exploit , he be the one .
Nevertheless , it seem so difficult an undertaking , that , for the first time in his life , he hesitate .
`` Is the sky very heavy ? ''
he inquire .
`` Why , not particularly so , at first , '' answer the giant , shrug his shoulder .
`` But it get to be a little burdensome , after a thousand year ! ''
`` And how long a time , '' ask the hero , `` will it take you to get the golden apple ? ''
`` O , that will be do in a few moment , '' cry Atlas .
`` I shall take ten or fifteen mile at a stride , and be at the garden and back again before your shoulder begin to ache . ''
`` Well , then , '' answer Hercules , `` I will climb the mountain behind you there , and relieve you of your burden . ''
The truth be , Hercules have a kind heart of his own , and consider that he should be do the giant a favor , by allow him this opportunity for a ramble .
And , besides , he think that it would be still more for his own glory , if he could boast of uphold the sky , than merely to do so ordinary a thing a to conquer a dragon with a hundred head .
Accordingly , without more word , the sky be shift from the shoulder of Atlas , and place upon those of Hercules .
When this be safely accomplish , the first thing that the giant do be to stretch himself ; and you may imagine what a prodigious spectacle be be then .
Next , he slowly lift one of his foot out of the forest that have grow up around it ; then , the other .
Then , all at once , he begin to caper , and leap , and dance , for joy at his freedom ; fling himself nobody know how high into the air , and flounder down again with a shock that make the earth tremble .
Then he laugh -- Ho !
ho !
ho !
-- with a thunderous roar that be echo from the mountain , far and near , a if they and the giant have be so many rejoice brother .
When his joy have a little subsided , he step into the sea ; ten mile at the first stride , which bring him mid-leg deep ; and ten mile at the second , when the water come just above his knee ; and ten mile more at the third , by which he be immerse nearly to his waist .
This be the great depth of the sea .
Hercules watch the giant , a he still go onward ; for it be really a wonderful sight , this immense human form , more than thirty mile off , half hide in the ocean , but with his upper half a tall , and misty , and blue , a a distant mountain .
At last the gigantic shape fade entirely out of view .
And now Hercules begin to consider what he should do , in case Atlas should be drown in the sea , or if he be to be sting to death by the dragon with the hundred bead , which guard the golden apple of the Hesperides .
If any such misfortune be to happen , how could he ever get rid of the sky ?
And , by the by , it weight begin already to be a little irksome to his head and shoulder .
`` I really pity the poor giant , '' think Hercules .
`` If it weary me so much in ten minute , how must it have weary him in a thousand year ! ''
O my sweet little people , you have no idea what a weight there be in that same blue sky , which look so soft and aerial above our head !
And there , too , be the bluster of the wind , and the chill and watery cloud , and the blazing sun , all take their turn to make Hercules uncomfortable !
He begin to be afraid that the giant would never come back .
He gaze wistfully at the world beneath him , and acknowledge to himself that it be a far happy kind of life to be a shepherd at the foot of a mountain , than to stand on it dizzy summit , and bear up the firmament with his might and main .
For , of course , a you will easily understand , Hercules have an immense responsibility on his mind , as well a a weight on his head and shoulder .
Why , if he do not stand perfectly still , and keep the sky immovable , the sun would perhaps be put ajar !
Or , after nightfall , a great many of the star might be loosen from their place , and shower down , like fiery rain , upon the people 's head !
And how ashamed would the hero be , if , owe to his unsteadiness beneath it weight , the sky should crack , and show a great fissure quite across it !
I know not how long it be before , to his unspeakable joy , he behold the huge shape of the giant , like a cloud , on the far-off edge of the sea .
At his nearer approach , Atlas hold up his hand , in which Hercules could perceive three magnificent golden apple , as big a pumpkin , all bang from one branch .
`` I be glad to see you again , '' shout Hercules , when the giant be within hearing .
`` So you have get the golden apple ? ''
`` Certainly , certainly , '' answer Atlas ; `` and very fair apple they be .
I take the fine that grow on the tree , I assure you .
Ah !
it be a beautiful spot , that garden of the Hesperides .
Yes ; and the dragon with a hundred head be a sight worth any man 's seeing .
After all , you have good have go for the apple yourself . ''
`` No matter , '' reply Hercules .
`` You have have a pleasant ramble , and have do the business as well a I could .
I heartily thank you for your trouble .
And now , a I have a long way to go , and be rather in haste , -- and a the king , my cousin , be anxious to receive the golden apple , -- will you be kind enough to take the sky off my shoulder again ? ''
`` Why , a to that , '' say the giant , chuck the golden apple into the air , twenty mile high , or thereabouts , and catch them a they come down , -- `` a to that , my good friend , I consider you a little unreasonable .
Can not I carry the golden apple to the king , your cousin , much quick than you could ?
As his majesty be in such a hurry to get them , I promise you to take my long stride .
And , besides , I have no fancy for burden myself with the sky , just now . ''
Here Hercules grow impatient , and give a great shrug of his shoulder .
It be now twilight , you might have see two or three star tumble out of their place .
Everybody on earth look upward in affright , think that the sky might be go to fall next .
`` O , that will never do ! ''
cry Giant Atlas , with a great roar of laughter .
`` I have not let fall so many star within the last five century .
By the time you have stand there as long a I do , you will begin to learn patience ! ''
`` What ! ''
shouted Hercules , very wrathfully , `` do you intend to make me bear this burden forever ? ''
`` We will see about that , one of these day , '' answer the giant .
`` At all event , you ought not to complain , if you have to bear it the next hundred year , or perhaps the next thousand .
I bore it a good while longer , in spite of the back-ache .
Well , then , after a thousand year , if I happen to feel in the mood , we may possibly shift about again .
You be certainly a very strong man , and can never have a good opportunity to prove it .
Posterity will talk of you , I warrant it ! ''
`` Pish !
a fig for it talk ! ''
cried Hercules , with another hitch of his shoulder .
`` Just take the sky upon your head one instant , will you ?
I want to make a cushion of my lion 's skin , for the weight to rest upon .
It really chafe me , and will cause unnecessary inconvenience in so many century a I be to stand here . ''
`` That 's no more than fair , and I 'll do it ! ''
quoth the giant ; for he have no unkind feeling towards Hercules , and be merely act with a too selfish consideration of his own ease .
`` For just five minute , then , I 'll take back the sky .
Only for five minute , recollect !
I have no idea of spending another thousand year a I spend the last .
Variety be the spice of life , say I. '' Ah , the thick-witted old rogue of a giant !
He throw down the golden apple , and receive back the sky , from the head and shoulder of Hercules , upon his own , where it rightly belong .
And Hercules pick up the three golden apple , that be as big or big than pumpkin , and straightway set out on his journey homeward , without pay the slight heed to the thunder tone of the giant , who bellow after him to come back .
Another forest spring up around his foot , and grow ancient there ; and again might be see oak-trees , of six or seven century old , that have wax thus again betwixt his enormous toe .
And there stand the giant , to this day ; or , at any rate , there stand a mountain as tall a he , and which bear his name ; and when the thunder rumple about it summit , we may imagine it to be the voice of Giant Atlas , bellow after Hercules !
TANGLEWOOD FIRESIDE .
AFTER THE STORY .
`` Cousin Eustace , '' demand Sweet Fern , who have be sit at the story-teller 's foot , with his mouth wide open , `` exactly how tall be this giant ? ''
`` O Sweet Fern , Sweet Fern ! ''
cry the student , `` do you think I be there , to measure him with a yardstick ?
Well , if you must know to a hair 's - breadth , I suppose he might be from three to fifteen mile straight upward , and that he might have seat himself on Taconic , and have Monument Mountain for a footstool . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
ejaculate the good little boy , with a contented sort of a grunt , `` that be a giant , sure enough !
And how long be his little finger ? ''
`` As long a from Tanglewood to the lake , '' say Eustace .
`` Sure enough , that be a giant ! ''
repeat Sweet Fern , in an ecstasy at the precision of these measurement .
`` And how broad , I wonder , be the shoulder of Hercules ? ''
`` That be what I have never be able to find out , '' answer the student .
`` But I think they must have be a great deal broad than mine , or than your father 's , or than almost any shoulder which one see nowadays . ''
`` I wish , '' whisper Sweet Fern , with his mouth close to the student 's ear , `` that you would tell me how big be some of the oak-trees that grow between the giant 's toe . ''
`` They be big , '' say Eustace , `` than the great chestnut-tree which stand beyond Captain Smith 's house . ''
`` Eustace , '' remark Mr. Pringle , after some deliberation , `` I find it impossible to express such an opinion of this story a will be likely to gratify , in the small degree , your pride of authorship .
Pray let me advise you never more to meddle with a classical myth .
Your imagination be altogether Gothic , and will inevitably Gothicize everything that you touch .
The effect be like bedaub a marble statue with paint .
This giant , now !
How can you have venture to thrust his huge , disproportioned mass among the seemly outline of Grecian fable , the tendency of which be to reduce even the extravagant within limit , by it pervade elegance ? ''
`` I describe the giant a he appear to me , '' reply the student , rather pique .
`` And , sir , if you would only bring your mind into such a relation with these fable a be necessary in order to remodel them , you would see at once that an old Greek have no more exclusive right to them than a modern Yankee have .
They be the common property of the world , and of all time .
The ancient poet remodelled them at pleasure , and hold them plastic in their hand ; and why should they not be plastic in my hand , a well ? ''
Mr. Pringle could not forbear a smile .
`` And besides , '' continue Eustace , `` the moment you put any warmth of heart , any passion or affection , any human or divine morality , into a classic mould , you make it quite another thing from what it be before .
My own opinion be , that the Greeks , by take possession of these legend -LRB- which be the immemorial birthright of mankind -RRB- , and put them into shape of indestructible beauty , indeed , but cold and heartless , have do all subsequent age an incalculable injury . ''
`` Which you , doubtless , be bear to remedy , '' say Mr. Pringle , laugh outright .
`` Well , well , go on ; but take my advice , and never put any of your travesty on paper .
And , a your next effort , what if you should try your hand on some one of the legend of Apollo ? ''
`` Ah , sir , you propose it a an impossibility , '' observe the student , after a moment 's meditation ; `` and , to be sure , at first thought , the idea of a Gothic Apollo strike one rather ludicrously .
But I will turn over your suggestion in my mind , and do not quite despair of success . ''
During the above discussion , the child -LRB- who understand not a word of it -RRB- have grow very sleepy , and be now send off to bed .
Their drowsy babble be hear , ascend the staircase , while a northwest-wind roared loudly among the tree-tops of Tanglewood , and play an anthem around the house .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Threefold_Destiny_ ( From_ '' Twice_Told_Tales '' ) .txt.out
I have sometimes produce a singular and not unpleasing effect , so far a my own mind be concern , by imagine a train of incident , in which the spirit and mechanism of the fairy legend should be combine with the character and manner of familiar life .
In the little tale which follow , a subdued tinge of the wild and wonderful be throw over a sketch of New England personage and scenery , yet , it be hop , without entirely obliterate the sober hue of nature .
Rather than a story of event claim to be real , it may be consider a an allegory , such a the writer of the last century would have express in the shape of an Eastern tale , but to which I have endeavor to give a more life-like warmth than could be infuse into those fanciful production .
In the twilight of a summer eve , a tall , dark figure , over which long and remote travel have throw an outlandish aspect , be enter a village , not in `` Fairy Londe , '' but within our own familiar boundary .
The staff , on which this traveller lean , have be his companion from the spot where it grow , in the jungle of Hindostan ; the hat , that overshadow his sombre brow , have shield him from the sun of Spain ; but his cheek have be blacken by the red-hot wind of an Arabian desert , and have felt the frozen breath of an Arctic region .
Long sojourn amid wild and dangerous men , he still wear beneath his vest the ataghan which he have once strike into the throat of a Turkish robber .
In every foreign clime he have lose something of his New England characteristic ; and , perhaps , from every people he have unconsciously borrow a new peculiarity ; so that when the world-wanderer again trod the street of his native village , it be no wonder that he pass unrecognized , though excite the gaze and curiosity of all .
Yet , a his arm casually touch that of a young woman , who be wend her way to an evening lecture , she start , and almost utter a cry .
`` Ralph Cranfield ! ''
be the name that she half articulate .
`` Can that be my old playmate , Faith Egerton ? ''
think the traveller , look round at her figure , but without pause .
Ralph Cranfield , from his youth upward , have felt himself mark out for a high destiny .
He have imbibe the idea -- we say not whether it be reveal to him by witchcraft , or in a dream of prophecy , or that his brooding fancy have palm it own dictate upon him a the oracle of a Sibyl -- but he have imbibe the idea , and hold it firm among his article of faith , that three marvellous event of his life be to be confirm to him by three sign .
The first of these three fatality , and perhaps the one on which his youthful imagination have dwell most fondly , be the discovery of the maid , who alone , of all the maid on earth , could make him happy by her love .
He be to roam around the world till he should meet a beautiful woman , wear on her bosom a jewel in the shape of a heart ; whether of pearl , or ruby , or emerald , or carbuncle , or a changeful opal , or perhaps a priceless diamond , Ralph Cranfield little care , so long a it be a heart of one peculiar shape .
On encounter this lovely stranger , he be bind to address her thus : `` Maiden , I have bring you a heavy heart .
May I rest it weight on you ? ''
And if she be his fated bride , -- if their kindred soul be destine to form a union here below , which all eternity should only bind more closely , -- she would reply , with her finger on the heart-shaped jewel , `` This token , which I have wear so long , be the assurance that you may ! ''
And , secondly , Ralph Cranfield have a firm belief that there be a mighty treasure hidden somewhere in the earth , of which the burial-place would be reveal to none but him .
When his foot should press upon the mysterious spot , there would be a hand before him , point downward , -- whether carve of marble , or hewn in gigantic dimension on the side of a rocky precipice , or perchance a hand of flame in empty air , he could not tell ; but , at least , he would discern a hand , the forefinger point downward , and beneath it the Latin word EFFODE , -- Dig !
And dig thereabouts , the gold in coin or ingot , the precious stone , or of whatever else the treasure might consist , would be certain to reward his toil .
The third and last of the miraculous event in the life of this high-destined man be to be the attainment of extensive influence and sway over his fellow-creatures .
Whether he be to be a king , and founder of an hereditary throne , or the victorious leader of a people contend for their freedom , or the apostle of a purified and regenerated faith , be leave for futurity to show .
As messenger of the sign , by which Ralph Cranfield might recognize the summons , three venerable men be to claim audience of him .
The chief among them , a dignified and majestic person , array , it may be suppose , in the flowing garment of an ancient sage , would be the bearer of a wand , or prophet 's rod .
With this wand , or rod , or staff , the venerable sage would trace a certain figure in the air , and then proceed to make know his heaven-instructed message ; which , if obey , must lead to glorious result .
With this proud fate before him , in the flush of his imaginative youth , Ralph Cranfield have set forth to seek the maid , the treasure , and the venerable sage , with his gift of extended empire .
And have he find them ?
Alas !
it be not with the aspect of a triumphant man , who have achieve a nobler destiny than all his fellow , but rather with the gloom of one struggle against peculiar and continual adversity , that he now pass homeward to his mother 's cottage .
He have come back , but only for a time , to lay aside the pilgrim 's staff , trust that his weary manhood would regain somewhat of the elasticity of youth , in the spot where his threefold fate have be foreshow him .
There have be few change in the village ; for it be not one of those thriving place where a year 's prosperity make more than the havoc of a century 's decay ; but like a gray hair in a young man 's head , an antiquated little town , full of old maid , and age elm , and moss-grown dwelling .
Few seem to be the change here .
The drooping elm , indeed , have a more majestic spread ; the weather-blackened house be adorn with a denser thatch of verdant moss ; and doubtless there be a few more gravestone in the burial-ground , inscribe with name that have once be familiar in the village street .
Yet , sum up all the mischief that ten year have work , it seem scarcely more than if Ralph Cranfield have go forth that very morning , and dream a daydream till the twilight , and then turn back again .
But his heart grow cold , because the village do not remember him a he remember the village .
`` Here be the change ! ''
sigh he , strike his hand upon his breast .
`` Who be this man of thought and care , weary with world-wandering , and heavy with disappointed hope ?
The youth return not , who go forth so joyously ! ''
And now Ralph Cranfield be at his mother 's gate , in front of the small house where the old lady , with slender but sufficient mean , have keep herself comfortable during her son 's long absence .
Admitting himself within the enclosure , he lean against a great , old tree , trifle with his own impatience , a people often do in those interval when year be sum into a moment .
He take a minute survey of the dwelling , -- it window , brighten with the sky-gleans , it doorway , with the half of a mill-stone for a step , and the faintly trace path wave thence to the gate .
He make friend again with his childhood 's friend , the old tree against which he lean ; and glance his eye a-down it trunk , behold something that excite a melancholy smile .
It be a half-obliterated inscription -- the Latin word EFFODE -- which he remember to have carve in the bark of the tree , with a whole day 's toil , when he have first begin to muse about his exalted destiny .
It might be account a rather singular coincidence , that the bark , just above the inscription , have put forth an excrescence , shape not unlike a hand , with the forefinger point obliquely at the word of fate .
Such , at least , be it appearance in the dusky light .
`` Now a credulous man , '' say Ralph Cranfield carelessly to himself , `` might suppose that the treasure which I have seek round the world lie bury , after all , at the very door of my mother 's dwelling .
That would be a jest indeed ! ''
More he think not about the matter ; for now the door be open , and an elderly woman appear on the threshold , peer into the dusk to discover who it might be that have intrude on her premise , and be stand in the shadow of her tree .
It be Ralph Cranfield 's mother .
Pass we over their greeting , and leave the one to her joy and the other to his rest , -- if quiet rest he find .
But when morning break , he arise with a troubled brow ; for his sleep and his wakefulness have alike be full of dream .
All the fervor be rekindle with which he have burn of yore to unravel the threefold mystery of his fate .
The crowd of his early vision seem to have await him beneath his mother 's roof , and throng riotously around to welcome his return .
In the well-remembered chamber -- on the pillow where his infancy have slumber -- he have pass a wilder night than ever in an Arab tent , or when he have repose his head in the ghastly shade of a haunt forest .
A shadowy maid have steal to his bedside , and lay her finger on the scintillating heart ; a hand of flame have glow amid the darkness , point downward to a mystery within the earth ; a hoary sage have wave his prophetic wand , and beckon the dreamer onward to a chair of state .
The same phantom , though fainter in the daylight , still flit about the cottage , and mingle among the crowd of familiar face that be draw thither by the news of Ralph Cranfield 's return , to bid him welcome for his mother 's sake .
There they find him , a tall , dark , stately man , of foreign aspect , courteous in demeanor and mild of speech , yet with an abstracted eye , which seem often to snatch a glance at the invisible .
Meantime the Widow Cranfield go bustle about the house full of joy that she again have somebody to love , and be careful of , and for whom she might vex and tease herself with the petty trouble of daily life .
It be nearly noon , when she look forth from the door , and descry three personage of note come along the street , through the hot sunshine and the mass of elm-tree shade .
At length they reach her gate , and undo the latch .
`` See , Ralph ! ''
exclaim she , with maternal pride , `` here be Squire Hawkwood and the two other selectman come on purpose to see you !
Now do tell them a good long story about what you have see in foreign part . ''
The foremost of the three visitor , Squire Hawkwood , be a very pompous , but excellent old gentleman , the head and prime mover in all the affair of the village , and universally acknowledge to be one of the sage men on earth .
He wear , accord to a fashion , even then become antiquate , a three-cornered hat , and carry a silver-headed cane , the use of which seem to be rather for flourish in the air than for assist the progress of his leg .
His two companion be elderly and respectable yeoman , who , retain an ante-revolutionary reverence for rank and hereditary wealth , keep a little in the Squire 's rear .
As they approach along the pathway , Ralph Cranfield sit in an oaken elbow-chair , half unconsciously gaze at the three visitor , and envelop their homely figure in the misty romance that pervade his mental world .
`` Here , '' think he , smile at the conceit , -- `` here come three elderly personage , and the first of the three be a venerable sage with a staff .
What if this embassy should bring me the message of my fate ! ''
While Squire Hawkwood and his colleague enter , Ralph rise from his seat , and advance a few step to receive them ; and his stately figure and dark countenance , a he bend courteously towards his guest , have a natural dignity , contrast well with the bustle importance of the Squire .
The old gentleman , accord to invariable custom , give an elaborate preliminary flourish with his cane in the air , then remove his three-cornered hat in order to wipe his brow , and finally proceed to make know his errand .
`` My colleague and myself , '' begin the Squire , `` be burden with momentous duty , be jointly selectman of this village .
Our mind , for the space of three day past , have be laboriously bent on the selection of a suitable person to fill a most important office , and take upon himself a charge and rule , which , wisely consider , may be rank no low than those of king and potentate .
And whereas you , our native townsman , be of good natural intellect , and well cultivate by foreign travel , and that certain vagary and fantasy of your youth be doubtless long ago correct ; take all these matter , I say , into due consideration , we be of opinion that Providence Lath send you hither , at this juncture , for our very purpose . ''
During this harangue , Cranfield gaze fixedly at the speaker , a if he behold something mysterious and unearthly in his pompous little figure , and a if the Squire have wear the flow robe of an ancient sage , instead of a square-skirted coat , flap waistcoat , velvet breech , and silk stocking .
Nor be his wonder without sufficient cause ; for the flourish of the Squire 's staff , marvellous to relate , have describe precisely the signal in the air which be to ratify the message of the prophetic Sage , whom Cranfield have seek around the world .
`` And what , '' inquire Ralph Cranfield , with a tremor in his voice , -- `` what may this office be , which be to equal me with king and potentate ? ''
`` No less than instructor of our village school , '' answer Squire Hawkwood ; `` the office be now vacant by the loath of the venerable Master Whitaker , after a fifty year ' incumbency . ''
`` I will consider of your proposal , '' reply Ralph Cranfield , hurriedly , `` and will make known my decision within three day . ''
After a few more word , the village dignitary and his companion take their leave .
But to Cranfield 's fancy their image be still present , and become more and more invested with the dim awfulness of figure which have first appear to him in a dream , and afterwards have show themselves in his waking moment , assume homely aspects among familiar thing .
His mind dwelt upon the feature of the Squire , till they grow confuse with those of the visionary Sage , and one appear but the shadow of the other .
The same visage , he now thought , have look forth upon him from the Pyramid of Cheops ; the same form have beckon to him among the colonnade of the Alhambra ; the same figure have mistily reveal itself through the ascend steam of the Great Geyser .
At every effort of his memory he recognize some trait of the dreamy Messenger of Destiny , in this pompous , bustling , self-important , little great man of the village .
Amid such musing Ralph Cranfield sit all day in the cottage , scarcely hear and vaguely answer his mother 's thousand question about his travel and adventure .
At sunset he rouse himself to take a stroll , and , pass the age elm-tree , his eye be again catch by the semblance of a hand , point downward at the half-obliterated inscription .
As Cranfield walk down the street of the village , the level sunbeam throw his shadow far before him ; and he fancy that , a his shadow walk among distant object , so have there be a presentiment stalk in advance of him throughout his life .
And when he draw near each object , over which his tall shadow have precede him , still it prove to be -- one of the familiar recollection of his infancy and youth .
Every crook in the pathway be remember .
Even the more transitory characteristic of the scene be the same a in bygone day .
A company of cow be graze on the grassy roadside , and refresh him with their fragrant breath .
`` It be sweeter , '' think he , `` than the perfume which be waft to our shipp from the Spice Islands . ''
The round little figure of a child roll from a doorway , and lay laugh almost beneath Cranfield 's foot .
The dark and stately man stoop down , and , lift the infant , restore him to his mother 's arm .
`` The child , '' say he to himself , and sigh , and smile , -- `` the child be to be my charge ! ''
And while a flow of natural feeling gush like a wellspring in his heart , he come to a dwelling which he could nowise forbear to enter .
A sweet voice , which seem to come from a deep and tender soul , be warble a plaintive little air , within .
He bend his head , and pass through the lowly door .
As his foot sound upon the threshold , a young woman advance from the dusky interior of the house , at first hastily , and then with a more uncertain step , till they meet face to face .
There be a singular contrast in their two figure ; he dark and picturesque , -- one who have battle with the world , -- whom all sun have shine upon , and whom all wind have blow on a varied course ; she neat , comely , and quiet , -- quiet even in her agitation , -- a if all her emotion have be subdue to the peaceful tenor of her life .
Yet their face , all unlike a they be , have an expression that seem not so alien , -- a glow of kindred feeling , flash upward anew from half-extinguished ember .
`` You be welcome home ! ''
say Faith Egerton .
But Cranfield do not immediately answer ; for his eye have be catch by an ornament in the shape of a Heart , which Faith wear a a brooch upon her bosom .
The material be the ordinary white quartz ; and he recollect have himself shape it out of one of those Indian arrowhead , which be so often find in the ancient haunt of the red men .
It be precisely on the pattern of that worn by the visionary Maid .
When Cranfield depart on his shadowy search he have bestow this brooch , in a gold setting , a a part gift to Faith Egerton .
`` So , Faith , you have keep the Heart ! ''
say he , at length .
`` Yes , '' say she , blush deeply ; then more gayly , `` and what else have you bring me from beyond the sea ? ''
`` Faith ! ''
reply Ralph Cranfield , utter the fat word by an uncontrollable impulse , `` I have bring you nothing but a heavy heart !
May I rest it weight on you ? ''
`` This token , which I have wear so long , '' say Faith , lay her tremulous finger on the Heart , `` be the assurance that you may ! ''
`` Faith !
Faith ! ''
cried Cranfield , clasp her in his arm , `` you have interpret my wild and weary dream ! ''
Yes , the wild dreamer be awake at last .
To find the mysterious treasure , he be to till the earth around his mother 's dwelling , and reap it product !
Instead of warlike command , or regal or religious sway , he be to rule over the village child !
And now the visionary Maid have fade from his fancy , and in her place he saw the playmate of his childhood !
Would all , who cherish such wild wish , but look around them , they would oftenest find their sphere of duty , of prosperity , and happiness within those precinct , and in that station where Providence itself have cast their lot .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Toll_Gatherer's_Day_ ( From_ '' Twice_Told_Tales '' ) .txt.out
Methinks , for a person whose instinct bid him rather to pore over the current of life , than to plunge into it tumultuous wave , no undesirable retreat be a toll-house beside some throng thoroughfare of the land .
In youth , perhaps , it be good for the observer to run about the earth , to leave the track of his footstep far and wide , -- to mingle himself with the action of numberless vicissitude , -- and , finally , in some calm solitude , to fee a musing spirit on all that lie have see and felt .
But there be nature too indolent , or too sensitive , to endure the dust , the sunshine , or the rain , the turmoil of moral and physical element , to which all the wayfarer of the world expose themselves .
For such a mail , how pleasant a miracle , could life be make to roll it variegated length by the threshold of his own hermitage , and the great globe , a it be , perform it revolution and shift it thousand scene before his eye without whirl him onward in it course .
If any mortal be favor with a lot analogous to this , it be the toll-gatherer .
So , at least , have I often fancy , while lounge on a bench at the door of a small square edifice , which stand between shore and shore in the midst of a long bridge .
Beneath the timber ebb and flow an arm of the sea ; while above , like the life-blood through a great artery , the travel of the north and east be continually throb .
Sitting on the aforesaid bench , I amuse myself with a conception , illustrate by numerous pencil-sketches in the air , of the toll-gatherer 's day .
In the morning -- dim , gray , dewy summer 's morn the distant roll of ponderous wheel begin to mingle with my old friend 's slumber , creak more and more harshly through the midst of his dream , and gradually replace it with reality .
Hardly conscious of the change from sleep to wakefulness , he find himself partly clothe and throw wide the toll-gates for the passage of a fragrant load of hay .
The timber groan beneath the slow-revolving wheel ; one sturdy yeoman stalk beside the ox , and , peer from the summit of the hay , by the glimmer of the half-extinguished lantern over the toll-house , be see the drowsy visage of his comrade , who have enjoy a nap some ten mile long .
The toll be pay , -- creak , creak , again go the wheel , and the huge haymow vanishes into the morning mist .
As yet , nature be but half awake , and familiar object appear visionary .
But yonder , dash from the shore with a rattle thunder of the wheel and a confused clatter of hoof , come the never-tiring mail , which have hurry onward at the same headlong , restless rate , all through the quiet night .
The bridge resound in one continued peal a the coach roll on without a pause , merely afford the toll-gatherer a glimpse at the sleepy passenger , who now bestir their torpid limb , and snuff a cordial in the briny air .
The morn breathes upon them and blush , and they forget how wearily the darkness toil away .
And behold now the fervid day , in his bright chariot , glitter aslant over the wave , nor scorn to throw a tribute of his golden beam on the toll-gatherer 's little hermitage .
The old man look eastward , and -LRB- for he be a moralizer -RRB- frame a simile of the stage coach and the sun .
While the world be rouse itself , we may glance slightly at the scene of our sketch .
It sit above the bosom of the broad flood , a spot not of earth , but in the midst of water , which rush with a murmur sound among the massive beam beneath .
Over the door be a weather-beaten board , inscribe with the rate of toll , in letter so nearly efface that the gilding of the sunshine can hardly make them legible .
Beneath the window be a wooden bench , on which a long succession of weary wayfarer have repose themselves .
Peeping within door , we perceive the whitewashed wall bedeck with sundry lithographic print and advertisement of various import , and the immense showbill of a wandering caravan .
And there sit our good old toll-gatherer , glorify by the early sunbeam .
He be a man , a his aspect may announce , of quiet soul , and thoughtful , shrewd , yet simple mind , who , of the wisdom which the passing world scatter along the wayside , have gather a reasonable store .
Now the sun smile upon the landscape , and earth smile back again upon the sky .
Frequent , now , be the traveller .
The toll-gatherer 's practised ear can distinguish the weight of every vehicle , the number of it wheel , and how many horse beat the resounding timber with their iron tramp .
Here , in a substantial family chaise , set forth betimes to take advantage of the dewy road , come a gentleman and his wife , with their rosy-cheeked little girl sit gladsomely between them .
The bottom of the chaise be heap with multifarious bandbox and carpet-bags , and beneath the axle swing a leathern trunk dusty with yesterday 's journey .
Next appear a four-wheeled carryall , people with a round half-dozen of pretty girl , all draw by a single horse , and drive by a single gentleman .
Luckless wight , doom , through a whole summer day , to be the butt of mirth and mischief among the frolicsome maidens !
Bolt upright in a sulky rid a thin , sour-visaged man , who , a he pay his toll , hand the toll-gatherer a printed card to stick upon the wall .
The vinegar-faced traveller prove to be a manufacturer of pickle .
Now pace slowly from timber to timber a horseman clad in black , with a meditative brow , a of one who , whithersoever his steed might bear him , would still journey through a mist of brood thought .
He be a country preacher , go to labor at a protracted meeting .
The next object pass townward be a butcher 's cart , canopy with it arch of snow-white cotton .
Behind come a `` sauceman , '' drive a wagon full of new potato , green ear of corn , beet , carrot , turnip , and summer-squashes ; and next , two wrinkle , wither , witch-looking old gossip , in an antediluvian chaise , draw by a horse of former generation , and go to peddle out a lot of huckleberry .
See there , a man trundle a wheelbarrow-load of lobster .
And now a milk-cart rattle briskly onward , cover with green canvas , and convey the contribution of a whole herd of cow , in large tin canister .
But let all these pay their toll and pas .
Here come a spectacle that cause the old toll-gatherer to smile benignantly , a if the traveller bring sunshine with them and lavish it gladsome influence all along the road .
It be a harouche of the new style , the varnished panel of which reflect the whole move panorama of the landscape , and show a picture , likewise , of our friend , with his visage broaden , so that his meditative smile be transform to grotesque merriment .
Within , sit a youth , fresh a the summer morn , and beside him a young lady in white , with white glove upon her slender band , and a white veil flow down over her face .
But methinks her blushing cheek burn through the snowy veil .
Another white-robed virgin sits in front .
And who be these , on whom , and on all that appertain to them , the dust of earth seem never to have settle ?
Two lover , whom the priest have bless , this bless morn , and send them forth , with one of the bridemaids , on the matrimonial tour .
Take my bless too , ye happy one !
May the sky not frown upon you , nor clouds bedew you with their chill and sullen rain !
May the hot sun kindle no fever in your heart !
May your whole life 's pilgrimage be as blissful a this first day 's journey , and it close be gladden with even bright anticipation than those which hallow your bridal night !
They pass ; and ere the reflection of their joy have fade from his face , another spectacle throw a melancholy shadow over the spirit of the observe man .
In a close carriage sit a fragile figure , muffle carefully , and shrink even from the mild breath of summer .
She lean against a manly form , and his arm infolds her , a if to guard his treasure from some enemy .
Let but a few week pas , and when he shall strive to embrace that love one , he will press only desolation to his heart !
And now have morning gather up her dewy pearl , and flee away .
The sun roll blaze through the sky , and can not find a cloud to cool his face with .
The horse toil sluggishly along the bridge , and heave their glistening side in short quick panting , when the rein be tighten at the toll-house .
Glisten , too , the face of the traveller .
Their garment be thickly bestrewn with dust ; their whisker and hair look hoary ; their throat be choke with the dusty atmosphere which they have leave behind them .
No air be stir on the road .
Nature dare draw no breath , lest she should inhale a stifling cloud of dust .
`` A hot , and dusty day ! ''
cry the poor pilgrim , a they wipe their begrimed forehead , and woo the doubtful breeze which the river bear along with it .
`` Awful hot !
Dreadful dusty ! ''
answer the sympathetic toll-gatherer .
They start again , to pass through the fiery furnace , while he re-enter his cool hermitage , and besprinkle it with a pail of briny water from the stream beneath .
He think within himself , that the sun be not so fierce here a elsewhere , and that the gentle air do not forget him in these sultry day .
Yes , old friend ; and a quiet heart will make a dog-day temperate .
He hear a weary footstep , and perceive a traveller with pack and staff , who sit down upon the hospitable bench , and remove the hat from his wet brow .
The toll-gatherer administers a cup of cold water , and discover his guest to be a man of homely sense , he engage him in profitable talk , utter the maxim of a philosophy which he have find in his own soul , but know not how it come there .
And a the wayfarer make ready to resume his journey , he tell him a sovereign remedy for blistered foot .
Now come the noontide hour , -- of all the hour near akin to midnight ; for each have it own calmness and repose .
Soon , however , the world begin to turn again upon it axis , and it seem the busy epoch of the day ; when an accident impede the march of sublunary thing .
The draw be lift to permit the passage of a schooner , laden with wood from the Eastern forest , she stick immovably , right athwart the bridge !
Meanwhile , on both side of the chasm , a throng of impatient traveller fret and fume .
Here be two sailor in a gig , with the top thrown back , both puff cigar , and swear all sort of forecastle oath ; there , in a smart chaise , a dashingly dress gentleman and lady , he from a tailor 's shop-board ; and she from a milliner 's hack room , -- the aristocrat of a summer afternoon .
And what be the haughtiest of u , but the ephemeral aristocrat of a summer 's day ?
Here be a tin-peddler , whose glitter ware bedazzle all beholder , like a travelling meteor , or opposition sun ; and on the other side a seller of spruce-beer , which brisk liquor be confine in several dozen of stone bottle .
Here come a party of lady on horseback , in green riding-habits , and gentleman attendant ; and there a flock of sheep for the market , patter over the bridge with a multitudinous clatter of their little hoof .
Here a Frenchman , with a hand-organ on his shoulder ; and there an itinerant Swiss jeweller .
On this side , herald by a blast of clarion and bugle , appear a train of wagon , convey all the wild beast of a caravan ; and on that , a company of summer soldier , march from village to village on a festival campaign , attend by the `` brass band . ''
Now look at the scene , and it present an emblem of the mysterious confusion , the apparently insolvable riddle , in which individual , or the great world itself , seem often to be involve .
What miracle shall set all thing right again ?
But see !
the schooner have thrust her bulky carcass through the chasm ; the draw descend ; horse and foot pas onward , and leave the bridge vacant from end to end .
`` And thus , '' muse the toll-gatherer , `` have I find it with all stoppage , even though the universe seem to be at a stand . ''
The sage old man !
Far westward now , the redden sun throw a broad sheet of splendor across the flood , and to the eye of distant boatman gleam brightly among the timber of the bridge .
Strollers come from the town to quaff the freshening breeze .
One or two let down long line , and haul up flap flounder ?
or cunner , or small cod , or perhaps an eel .
Others , and fair girl among them , with the flush of the hot day still on their cheek , bend over the railing and watch the heap of sea-weed float upward with the flow tide .
The horse now tramp heavily along the bridge , and wistfully bethink them of their stable .
Rest , rest , thou weary world !
for tomorrow 's round of toil and pleasure will be as wearisome a to-day 's have be ; yet both shall bear thee onward a day 's march of eternity .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Village_Uncle_ ( From_ '' Twice_Told_Tales '' ) .txt.out
Come !
another log upon the hearth .
True , our little parlor be comfortable , especially here , where the old man sit in his old arm-chair ; but on Thanksgiving night the blaze should dance high up the chimney , and send a shower of spark into the outer darkness .
Toss on an armful of those dry oak chip , the last relic of the Mermaid 's knee-timbers , the bone of your namesake , Susan .
Higher yet , and clear be the blaze , till our cottage windows glow the ruddiest in the village , and the light of our household mirth flash far across the bay to Nahant .
And now , come , Susan , come , my child , draw your chair round me , all of you .
There be a dimness over your figure !
You sit quiver indistinctly with each motion of the blaze , which eddy about you like a flood , so that you all have the look of vision , or people that dwell only in the fire light , and will vanish from existence , as completely a your own shadow , when the flame shall sink among the ember .
Hark !
let me listen for the swell of the surf ; it should be audible a mile inland , on a night like this .
Yes ; there I catch the sound , but only an uncertain murmur , a if a good way down over the beach ; though , by the almanac , it be high tide at eight o'clock , and the billow must now be dash within thirty yard of our door .
Ah !
the old man 's ear be fail him ; and so be his eyesight , and perhaps his mind ; else you would not all be so shadowy , in the blaze of his Thanksgiving fire .
How strangely the Past be peep over the shoulder of the Present !
To judge by my recollection , it be but a few moment since I sit in another room ; yonder model of a vessel be not there , nor the old chest of drawer , nor Susan 's profile and mine , in that gilt frame ; nothing , in short , except this same fire , which glimmer on book , paper , and a picture , and half discover my solitary figure in a looking-glass .
But it be paler than my rugged old self , and young , too , by almost half a century .
Speak to me , Susan ; speak , my beloved one ; for the scene be glimmer on my sight again , and a it brighten you fade away .
O , I should be loath to lose my treasure of past happiness , and become once more what I be then ; a hermit in the depth of my own mind ; sometimes yawn over drowsy volume , and anon a scribbler of weary trash than what I read ; a man who have wander out of the real world and get into it shadow , where his trouble , joy , and vicissitude be of such slight stuff , that he hardly know whether he live , or only dream of living .
Thank Heaven , I be an old man now , and have do with all such vanity !
Still this dimness of mine eye !
Come nearer , Susan , and stand before the full blaze of the hearth .
Now I behold you illuminate from head to foot , in your clean cap and decent gown , with the dear lock of gray hair across your forehead , and a quiet smile about your mouth , while the eye alone be conceal , by the red gleam of the fire upon your spectacle .
There , you make me tremble again !
When the flame quiver , my sweet Susan , you quiver with it , and grow indistinct , a if melt into the warm light , that my last glimpse of you might be as visionary a the first be , full many a year since .
Do you remember it ?
You stand on the little bridge , over the brook , that run across King 's Beach into the sea .
It be twilight ; the wave roll in , the wind sweeping by , the crimson cloud fading in the west , and the silver moon brighten above the hill ; and on the bridge be you , flutter in the breeze like a sea-bird that might skim away at your pleasure .
You seem a daughter of the viewless wind , a creature of the ocean foam and the crimson light , whose merry life be spend in dance on the crest of the billow , that throw up their spray to support your footstep .
As I draw nearer , I fancy you akin to the race of mermaid , and think how pleasant it would be to dwell with you among the quiet cove , in the shadow of the cliff , and to roam along secluded beach of the purest sand , and when our northern shore grow bleak , to haunt the island , green and lonely , far amid summer sea .
And yet it gladden me , after all this nonsense , to find you nothing but a pretty young girl , sadly perplex with the rude behavior of the wind about your petticoat .
Thus I do with Susan a with most other thing in my early day , dip her image into my mind and color it of a thousand fantastic hue , before I could see her a she really be .
Now , Susan , for a sober picture of our village !
It be a small collection of dwelling that seem to have be cast up by the sea , with the rock-weed and marine plant that it vomit after a storm , or to have come ashore among the pipe-staves and other lumber , which have be wash from the deck of an Eastern schooner .
There be just space for the narrow and sandy street between the beach in front , and a precipitous hill that lift it rocky forehead in the rear , among a waste of juniper-bushes and the wild growth of a broken pasture .
The village be picturesque , in the variety of it edifice , though all be rude .
Here stand a little old hovel , build , perhaps , of drift-wood , there a row of boat-houses , and beyond them a two-story dwelling , of dark and weather-beaten aspect , the whole intermixed with one or two snug cottage , paint white , a sufficiency of pigsty , and a shoemaker 's shop .
Two grocery-stores stand opposite each other , in the centre of the village .
These be the place of resort , at their idle hour , of a hardy throng of fisherman , in red baize shirt , oilcloth trouser , and boot of brown leather cover the whole leg ; true seven-league boot , but fit to wade the ocean than walk the earth .
The wearer seem amphibious , a if they do but creep out of salt water to sun themselves ; nor would it have be wonderful to see their low limb cover with cluster of little shellfish , such a cling to rock and old ship-timber over which the tide ebb and flow .
When their fleet of boat be weather-bound , the butcher raise their price , and the spit be busy than the frying-pan ; for this be a place of fish , and know a such , to all the country round about ; the very air be fishy , be perfume with dead sculpin , hardheads , and dogfish , strewn plentifully on the beach .
You see , child , the village be but little change , since your mother and I be young .
How like a dream it be , when I bend over a pool of water , one pleasant morning , and saw that the ocean have dash it spray over me and make me a fisherman !
There be the tarpauling , the baize shirt , the oil-cloth trouser and seven-league boot , and there my own feature , but so reddened with sunburn and sea-breezes , that methought I have another face , and on other shoulder too .
The sea-gulls and the loon , and I , have now all one trade ; we skim the crest wave and seek our prey beneath them , the man with a keen enjoyment a the bird .
Always , when the east grow purple , I launch my dory , my little flat-bottomed skiff , and row cross-handed to Point Ledge , the Middle Ledge , or , perhaps , beyond Egg Rock ; often , too , do I anchor off Dread Ledge , a spot of peril to ship unpiloted ; and sometimes spread an adventurous sail and track across the bay to South Shore , cast my line in sight of Scituate .
Ere nightfall , I haul my skiff high and dry on the beach , laden with red rock-cod , or the white-bellied one of deep water ; haddock , bear the black mark of St. Peter 's finger near the gill ; the longbearded hake , whose liver hold oil enough for a midnight lamp ; and now and then a mighty halibut , with a back broad a my boat .
In the autumn , I troll and catch those lovely fish , the mackerel .
When the wind be high , -- when the whale-boats , anchor off the Point , nod their slender mast at each other , and the dory pitch and toss in the surf , -- when Nahant Beach be thunder three mile off , and the spray break a hundred foot in air , round the distant base of Egg Rock , -- when the brimful and boisterous sea threaten to tumble over the street of our village , -- then I make a holiday on shore .
Many such a day do I sit snugly in Mr. Bartlett 's store , attentive to the yarn of Uncle Parker ; uncle to the whole village , by right of seniority , but of Southern blood , with no kindred in New England .
His figure be before me now , enthrone upon a mackerel-barrel ; a lean old man , of great height , but bent with year , and twist into an uncouth shape by seven broken limb ; furrow also , and weather-worn , a if every gale , for the good part of a century , have catch him somewhere on the sea .
He look like a harbinger of tempest , a shipmate of the Flying Dutchman .
After innumerable voyage aboard men-of-war and merchant-men , fishing-schooners and chebacco-boats , the old salt have become master of a handcart , which he daily trundle about the vicinity , and sometimes blow his fish-horn through the street of Salem .
One of Uncle Parker 's eye have be blow out with gunpowder , and the other do but glimmer in it socket .
Turning it upward a he speak , it be his delight to tell of cruise against the French , and battle with his own shipmate , when he and an antagonist use to be seat astride of a sailor 's chest , each fasten down by a spike-nail through his trouser , and there to fight it out .
Sometimes he expatiate on the delicious flavor of the liagden , a greasy and goose-like fowl , which the sailor catch with hook and line on the Grand Banks .
He dwell with rapture on an interminable winter at the Isle of Sables , where he have gladden himself , amid polar snow , with the rum and sugar save from the wreck of a West India schooner .
And wrathfully do he shake his fist , a he relate how a party of Cape Cod men have rob him and his companion of their lawful spoil , and sail away with every keg of old Jamaica , leave him not a drop to drown his sorrow .
Villains they be , and of that wicked brotherhood who be say to tie lantern to horse ' tail , to mislead the mariner along the dangerous shore of the Cape .
Even now I seem to see the group of fisherman , with that old salt in the midst .
One fellow sits on the counter , a second bestrides an oil-barrel , a third lolls at his length on a parcel of new cod-lines , and another have plant the tarry seat of his trouser on a heap of salt , which will shortly be sprinkle over a lot of fish .
They be a likely set of men .
Some have voyage to the East Indies or the Pacific , and most of them have sail in Marblehead schooner to Newfoundland ; a few have be no farther than the Middle Banks , and one or two have always fish along the shore ; but , a Uncle Parker use to say , they have all be christen in salt water , and know more than men ever learn in the bush .
A curious figure , by way of contrast , be a fish-dealer from farup country , listen with eye wide open to narrative that might startle Sindbad the sailor .
Be it well with you , my brother !
Ye be all go , some to your graf ashore , and others to the depth of ocean ; but my faith be strong that ye be happy ; for whenever I behold your form , whether in dream or vision , each depart friend be puff his long-nine , and a mug of the right blackstrap go round from lip to lip .
But where be the mermaid in those delightful time ?
At a certain window near the centre of the village appear a pretty display of gingerbread men and horse , picture-books and ballad , small fish-hooks , pin , needle , sugar-plums , and brass thimble , article on which the young fisherman use to expend their money from pure gallantry .
What a picture be Susan behind the counter !
A slender maiden , though the child of rugged parent , she have the slim of all waist , brown hair curl on her neck , and a complexion rather pale , except when the sea-breeze flush it .
A few freckle become beauty-spots beneath her eyelid .
How be it , Susan , that you talk and act so carelessly , yet always for the best , do whatever be right in your own eye , and never once do wrong in mine , nor shock a taste that have be morbidly sensitive till now ?
And whence have you that happy gift , of brighten every topic with an unsought gayety , quiet but irresistible , so that even loomy spirit felt your sunshine , and do not shrink from it ?
Nature work the charm .
She make you a frank , simple , kind-hearted , sensible , and mirthful girl .
Obeying nature , you do free thing without indelicacy , display a maiden 's thought to every eye , and prove yourself as innocent a naked Eve .
It be beautiful to observe , how her simple and happy nature mingle itself with mine .
She kindle a domestic fire within my heart , and take up her dwelling there , even in that chill and lonesome cavern hung round with glitter icicle of fancy .
She give me warmth of feeling , while the influence of my mind make her contemplative .
I teach her to love the moonlight hour , when the expanse of the encircled bay be smooth a a great mirror and slept in a transparent shadow ; while beyond Nahant , the wind ripple the dim ocean into a dreamy brightness , which grow faint afar off , without become gloomier .
I hold her hand and point to the long surf wave , a it roll calmly on the beach , in an unbroken line of silver ; we be silent together , till it deep and peaceful murmur have sweep by u .
When the Sabbath sun shone down into the recess of the cliff , I lead the mermaid thither , and tell her that those huge , gray , shattered rock , and her native sea , that rag forever like a storm against them , and her own slender beauty , in so stern a scene , be all combine into a strain of poetry .
But on the Sabbath eve , when her mother have go early to bed , and her gentle sister have smile and leave u , a we sit alone by the quiet hearth , with household thing around , it be her turn to make me feel that here be a deep poetry , and that this be the dear hour of all .
Thus go on our wooing , till I have shoot wild-fowl enough to feather our bridal bed , and the Daughter of the Sea be mine .
I build a cottage for Susan and myself , and make a gateway in the form of a Gothic arch , by set up a whale 's jaw-bones .
We buy a heifer with her first calf , and have a little garden on the hillside , to supply u with potato and green sauce for our fish .
Our parlor small and neat , be ornament with our two profile in one gilt frame , and with shell and pretty pebble on the mantel-piece , select from the sea 's treasury of such thing , on Nahant Beach .
On the desk , beneath the looking-glass , lay the Bible , which I have begin to read aloud at the Book of Genesis , and the singing-book that Susan use for her evening psalm .
Except the almanac , we have no other literature .
All that I hear of book , be when an Indian history , or tale of shipwreck , be sell by a peddler or wander subscription-man , to some one in the village , and read through it owner 's nose to a slumberous auditory .
Like my brother fisherman , I grow into the belief that all human erudition be collect in our pedagogue , whose green spectacle and solemn phiz , a he pass to his little schoolhouse , amid a waste of sand , might have gain him a diploma from any college in New England .
In truth I dread him .
When our child be old enough to claim his care , you remember , Susan , how I frown , though you be pleased , at this learned man 's encomium on their proficiency .
I fear to trust them even with the alphabet ; it be the key to a fatal treasure .
But I love to lead them by their little hand along the beach , and point to nature in the vast and the minute , the sky , the sea , the green earth , the pebble , and the shell .
Then do I discourse of the mighty work and coextensive goodness of the Deity , with the simple wisdom of a man whose mind have profit by lonely day upon the deep , and his heart by the strong and pure affection of his evening home .
Sometimes my voice lose itself in a tremulous depth ; for I felt His eye upon me a I speak .
Once , while my wife and all of u be gaze at ourselves , in the mirror leave by the tide in a hollow of the sand , I point to the picture heaven below , and bid her observe how religion be strew everywhere in our path ; since even a casual pool of water recall the idea of that home whither we be travel , to rest forever with our child .
Suddenly , your image , Susan , and all the little face make up of yours and mine , seem to fade away and vanish around me , leave a pale visage like my own of former day within the frame of a large looking-glass .
Strange illusion !
My life glide on , the past appearing to mingle with the present and absorb the future , till the whole lie before me at a glance .
My manhood have long be wan with a stanch decay ; my early contemporary , after life of unbroken health , be all at rest , without have know the weariness of late age ; and now , with a wrinkled forehead and thin white hair a badge of my dignity , I have become the patriarch , the Uncle of the village .
I love that name ; it widen the circle of my sympathy ; it join all the youthful to my household , in the kindred of affection .
Like Uncle Parker , whose rheumatic bone be dash against Egg Rock , full forty year ago , I be a spinner of long yarn .
Seated on the gunwale of a dory , or on the sunny side of a boat-house , where the warmth be grateful to my limb , or by my own hearth , when a friend or two be there , I overflow with talk , and yet be never tedious .
With a broken voice I give utterance to much wisdom .
Such , Heaven be praise !
be the vigor of my faculty , that many a forgotten usage , and tradition ancient in my youth , and early adventure of myself or others , hitherto efface by thing more recent , acquire new distinctness in my memory .
I remember the happy day when the haddock be more numerous on all the fishing-grounds than sculpin in the surf ; when the deepwater cod swain close in shore , and the dogfish , with his poisonous horn , have not learn to take the hook .
I can number every equinoctial storm , in which the sea have overwhelm the street , flood the cellar of the village , and hiss upon our kitchen hearth .
I give the history of the great whale that be land on Whale Beach , and whose jaw , be now my gateway , will last for age after my coffin shall have pass beneath them .
Thence it be an easy digression to the halibut , scarcely small than the whale , which run out six cod-lines , and haul my dory to the mouth of Boston Harbor , before I could touch him with the gaff .
If melancholy accident be the theme of conversation , I tell how a friend of mine be take out of his boat by an enormous shark ; and the sad , true tale of a young man on the eve of marriage , who have be nine day miss , when his drown body float into the very pathway , on Marblehead Neck , that have often lead him to the dwelling of his bride ; a if the dripping corpse would have come where the mourner be .
With such awful fidelity do that lover return to fulfil his vow !
Another favorite story be of a crazy maiden , who converse with angel and have the gift of prophecy , and whom all the village love and pity , though she go from door to door accuse u of sin , exhort to repentance , and foretell our destruction by flood or earthquake .
If the young men boast their knowledge of the ledge and sunken rock , I speak of pilot , who know the wind by it scent and the wave by it taste , and could have steer blindfold to any port between Boston and Mount Desert , guide only by the rote of the shore ; the peculiar sound of the surf on each island , beach , and line of rock , along the coast .
Thus do I talk , and all my auditor grow wise , while they deem it pastime .
I recollect no happy portion of my life , than this , my calm old age .
It be like the sunny and shelter slope of a valley , where , late in the autumn , the grass be green than in August , and intermixed with golden dandelion , that have not be see till now , since the first warmth of the year .
But with me , the verdure and the flower be not frostbitten in the midst of winter .
A playfulness have revisit my mind ; a sympathy with the young and gay ; an unpainful interest in the business of others ; a light and wandering curiosity ; arise , perhaps , from the sense that my toil on earth be end , and the brief hour till bedtime may be spend in play .
Still , I have fancy that there be a depth of feeling and reflection , under this superficial levity , peculiar to one who have live long , and be soon to die .
Show me anything that would make an infant smile , and you shall behold a gleam of mirth over the hoary ruin of my visage .
I can spend a pleasant hour in the sun , watch the sport of the village child , on the edge of the surf ; now they chase the retreat wave far down over the wet sand ; now it steal softly up to kiss their naked foot ; now it come onward with threaten front , and roar after the laughing crew , a they scamper beyond it reach .
Why should not an old man be merry too , when the great sea be at play with those little child ?
I delight , also , to follow in the wake of a pleasure-party of young men and girl , stroll along the beach after an early supper at the Point .
Here , with hand kerchief at nose , they bend over a heap of eel-grass , entangle in which be a dead skate , so oddly accoutred with two leg and a long tail , that they mistake him for a drowned animal .
A few step far , the lady scream , and the gentleman make ready to protect them against a young shark of the dogfish kind , roll with a life-like motion in the tide that have throw him up .
Next , they be smite with wonder at the black shell of a wagon-load of live lobster , pack in rock-weed for the country market .
And when they reach the fleet of dory , just haul ashore after the day 's fishing , how do I laugh in my sleeve , and sometimes roar outright , at the simplicity of these young folk and the sly humor of the fisherman !
In winter , when our village be throw into a bustle by the arrival of perhaps a score of country dealer , bargain for frozen fish , to be transport hundred of mile , and eat fresh in Vermont or Canada , I be a pleased but idle spectator in the throng .
For I launch my boat no more .
When the shore be solitary , I have find a pleasure that seem even to exalt my mind , in observe the sport or contention of two gull , a they wheel and hover about each other , with hoarse scream , one moment flap on the foam of the wave , and then soar aloft , till their white bosom melt into the upper sunshine .
In the calm of the summer sunset , I drag my aged limb , with a little ostentation of activity , because I be so old , up to the rocky brow of the hill .
There I see the white sail of many a vessel , outward bound or homeward from afar , and the black trail of a vapor behind the eastern steamboat ; there , too , be the sun , go down , but not in gloom , and there the illimitable ocean mingling with the sky , to remind me of eternity .
But sweet of all be the hour of cheerful musing and pleasant talk , that come between the dusk and the lighted candle , by my glowing fireside .
And never , even on the first Thanksgiving night , when Susan and I sit alone with our hope , nor the second , when a stranger have be send to gladden u , and be the visible image of our affection , do I feel such joy a now .
All that belong to me be here ; Death have take none , nor Disease keep them away , nor Strife divide them from their parent or each other ; with neither poverty nor rich to disturb them , nor the misery of desire beyond their lot , they have keep New England 's festival round the patriarch 's board .
For I be a patriarch !
Here I sit among my descendant , in my old arm-chair and immemorial corner , while the firelight throw an appropriate glory round my venerable frame .
Susan !
My child !
Something whisper me , that this happy hour must be the final one , and that nothing remain but to bless you all , and depart with a treasure of recollected joy to heaven .
Will you meet me there ?
Alas !
your figure grow indistinct , fade into picture on the air , and now to fainter outline , while the fire be glimmer on the wall of a familiar room , and show the book that I fling down , and the sheet that I leave half write , some fifty year ago .
I lift my eye to the looking-glass , and perceive myself alone , unless those be the mermaid 's feature , retire into the depth of the mirror , with a tender and melancholy smile .
All !
one feel a chillness , not bodily , but about the heart , and , moreover , a foolish dread of look behind him , after these pastime .
I can imagine precisely how a magician would sit down in gloom and terror , after dismiss the shadow that have personate dead or distant people , and strip his cavern of the unreal splendor which have change it to a palace .
And now for a moral to my revery .
Shall it be , that , since fancy can create so bright a dream of happiness , it be good to dream on from youth to age , than to awake and strive doubtfully for something real !
O , the slight tissue of a dream can no more preserve u from the stern reality of misfortune , than a robe of cobweb could repel the wintry blast .
Be this the moral , then .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___Twice_Told_Tales.txt.out
THE GRAY CHAMPION .
There be once a time when New England groan under the actual pressure of heavy wrong than those threaten one which bring on the Revolution .
James II . , the bigoted successor of Charles the Voluptuous , have annul the charter of all the colony and send a harsh and unprincipled soldier to take away our liberty and endanger our religion .
The administration of Sir Edmund Andros lack scarcely a single characteristic of tyranny -- a governor and council hold office from the king and wholly independent of the country ; law make and tax levy without concurrence of the people , immediate or by their representative ; the right of private citizen violate and the title of all landed property declare void ; the voice of complaint stifle by restriction on the press ; and finally , disaffection overawe by the first band of mercenary troop that ever march on our free soil .
For two year our ancestor be keep in sullen submission by that filial love which have invariably secure their allegiance to the mother-country , whether it head chance to be a Parliament , Protector or popish monarch .
Till these evil time , however , such allegiance have be merely nominal , and the colonist have rule themselves , enjoy far more freedom than be even yet the privilege of the native subject of Great Britain .
At length a rumor reach our shore that the prince of Orange have venture on an enterprise the success of which would be the triumph of civil and religious right and the salvation of New England .
It be but a doubtful whisper ; it might be false or the attempt might fail , and in either case the man that stir against King James would lose his head .
Still , the intelligence produce a marked effect .
The people smile mysteriously in the street and throw bold glance at their oppressor , while far and wide there be a subdue and silent agitation , a if the slight signal would rouse the whole land from it sluggish despondency .
Aware of their danger , the ruler resolve to avert it by an imposing display of strength , and perhaps to confirm their despotism by yet harsh measure .
One afternoon in April , 1689 , Sir Edmund Andros and his favorite councillor , be warm with wine , assemble the red-coats of the governor 's guard and make their appearance in the street of Boston .
The sun be near set when the march commence .
The roll of the drum at that unquiet crisis seem to go through the street le a the martial music of the soldier than a a muster-call to the inhabitant themselves .
A multitude by various avenue assemble in King street , which be destine to be the scene , nearly a century afterward , of another encounter between the troop of Britain and a people struggle against her tyranny .
Though more than sixty year have elapse since the Pilgrims come , this crowd of their descendant still show the strong and sombre feature of their character perhaps more strikingly in such a stern emergency than on happy occasion .
There be the sober garb , the general severity of mien , the gloomy but undismayed expression , the scriptural form of speech and the confidence in Heaven 's blessing on a righteous cause which would have mark a band of the original Puritans when threaten by some peril of the wilderness .
Indeed , it be not yet time for the old spirit to be extinct , since there be men in the street that day who have worship there beneath the tree before a house be rear to the God for whom they have become exile .
Old soldier of the Parliament be here , too , smile grimly at the thought that their age arm might strike another blow against the house of Stuart .
Here , also , be the veteran of King Philip 's war , who have burn village and slaughter young and old with pious fierceness while the godly souls throughout the land be help them with prayer .
Several minister be scatter among the crowd , which , unlike all other mob , regard them with such reverence a if there be sanctity in their very garment .
These holy men exert their influence to quiet the people , but not to disperse them .
Meantime , the purpose of the governor in disturb the peace of the town at a period when the slight commotion might throw the country into a ferment be almost the Universal subject of inquiry , and variously explain .
`` Satan will strike his master-stroke presently , '' cry some , `` because he knoweth that his time be short .
All our godly pastor be to be drag to prison .
We shall see them at a Smithfield fire in King street . ''
Hereupon the people of each parish gather close round their minister , who look calmly upward and assume a more apostolic dignity , as well befit a candidate for the high honor of his profession -- a crown of martyrdom .
It be actually fancy at that period that New England might have a John Rogers of her own to take the place of that worthy in the Primer .
`` The pope of Rome have give order for a new St. Bartholomew , '' cry others .
`` We be to be massacre , man and male-child . ''
Neither be this rumor wholly discredit ; although the wise class believe the governor 's object somewhat less atrocious .
His predecessor under the old charter , Bradstreet , a venerable companion of the first settler , be know to be in town .
There be ground for conjecture that Sir Edmund Andros intend at once to strike terror by a parade of military force and to confound the opposite faction by possess himself of their chief .
`` Stand firm for the old charter-governor ! ''
shout the crowd , seize upon the idea -- `` the good old Governor Bradstreet ! ''
While this cry be at the loud the people be surprise by the well-known figure of Governor Bradstreet himself , a patriarch of nearly ninety , who appear on the elevated step of a door and with characteristic mildness beseech them to submit to the constituted authority .
`` My child , '' conclude this venerable person , `` do nothing rashly .
Cry not aloud , but pray for the welfare of New England and expect patiently what the Lord will do in this matter . ''
The event be soon to be decide .
All this time the roll of the drum have be approach through Cornhill , louder and deeper , till with reverberation from house to house and the regular tramp of martial footstep it burst into the street .
A double rank of soldier make their appearance , occupy the whole breadth of the passage , with shouldered matchlock and match burning , so a to present a row of fire in the dusk .
Their steady march be like the progress of a machine that would roll irresistibly over everything in it way .
Next , move slowly , with a confused clatter of hoof on the pavement , ride a party of mounted gentleman , the central figure be Sir Edmund Andros , elderly , but erect and soldier-like .
Those around him be his favorite councillor and the bitter foe of New England .
At his right hand ride Edward Randolph , our arch-enemy , that `` blasted wretch , '' a Cotton Mather call him , who achieve the downfall of our ancient government and be follow with a sensible curse-through life and to his grave .
On the other side be Bullivant , scatter jest and mockery a he ride along .
Dudley come behind with a downcast look , dread , as well he might , to meet the indignant gaze of the people , who behold him , their only countryman by birth , among the oppressor of his native land .
The captain of a frigate in the harbor and two or three civil officer under the Crown be also there .
But the figure which most attract the public eye and stir up the deep feeling be the Episcopal clergyman of King 's Chapel rid haughtily among the magistrate in his priestly vestment , the fitting representative of prelacy and persecution , the union of Church and State , and all those abomination which have drive the Puritans to the wilderness .
Another guard of soldier , in double rank , bring up the rear .
The whole scene be a picture of the condition of New England , and it moral , the deformity of any government that do not grow out of the nature of thing and the character of the people -- on one side the religious multitude with their sad visage and dark attire , and on the other the group of despotic ruler with the high churchman in the midst and here and there a crucifix at their bosom , all magnificently clothe , flush with wine , proud of unjust authority and scoffing at the universal groan .
And the mercenary soldier , wait but the word to deluge the street with blood , show the only mean by which obedience could be secure .
`` O Lord of host , '' cry a voice among the crowd , `` provide a champion for thy people ! ''
This ejaculation be loudly uttered , and serve a a herald 's cry to introduce a remarkable personage .
The crowd have roll back , and be now huddle together nearly at the extremity of the street , while the soldier have advance no more than a third of it length .
The intervene space be empty -- a paved solitude between lofty edifice which throw almost a twilight shadow over it .
Suddenly there be see the figure of an ancient man who seem to have emerge from among the people and be walk by himself along the centre of the street to confront the armed band .
He wear the old Puritan dress -- a dark cloak and a steeple-crowned hat in the fashion of at least fifty year before , with a heavy sword upon his thigh , but a staff in his hand to assist the tremulous gait of age .
When at some distance from the multitude , the old man turn slowly round , display a face of antique majesty render doubly venerable by the hoary beard that descend on his breast .
He make a gesture at once of encouragement and warning , then turn again and resume his way .
`` Who be this gray patriarch ? ''
ask the young men of their sire .
`` Who be this venerable brother ? ''
ask the old men among themselves .
But none could make reply .
The father of the people , those of fourscore year and upward , be disturb , deem it strange that they should forget one of such evident authority whom they must have know in their early day , the associate of Winthrop and all the old councillor , give law and make prayer and lead them against the savage .
The elderly men ought to have remember him , too , with lock a gray in their youth a their own be now .
And the young !
How could he have pass so utterly from their memory -- that hoary sire , the relic of long-departed time , whose awful benediction have surely be bestow on their uncovered head in childhood ?
`` Whence do he come ?
What be his purpose ?
Who can this old man be ? ''
whisper the wondering crowd .
Meanwhile , the venerable stranger , staff in hand , be pursue his solitary walk along the centre of the street .
As he draw near the advance soldier , and a the roll of their drum come full upon his ear , the old man raise himself to a lofty mien , while the decrepitude of age seem to fall from his shoulder , leave him in gray but unbroken dignity .
Now he march onward with a warrior 's step , keep time to the military music .
Thus the aged form advance on one side and the whole parade of soldier and magistrate on the other , till , when scarcely twenty yard remain between , the old man grasp his staff by the middle and hold it before him like a leader 's truncheon .
`` Stand ! ''
cry he .
The eye , the face and attitude of command , the solemn yet warlike peal of that voice -- fit either to rule a host in the battle-field or be raise to God in prayer -- be irresistible .
At the old man 's word and outstretched arm the roll of the drum be hush at once and the advance line stand still .
A tremulous enthusiasm seize upon the multitude .
That stately form , combine the leader and the saint , so gray , so dimly see , in such an ancient garb , could only belong to some old champion of the righteous cause whom the oppressor 's drum have summon from his grave .
They raise a shout of awe and exultation , and look for the deliverance of New England .
The governor and the gentleman of his party , perceive themselves bring to an unexpected stand , ride hastily forward , a if they would have press their snorting and affrighted horse right against the hoary apparition .
He , however , blench not a step , but , glance his severe eye round the group , which half encompass him , at last bent it sternly on Sir Edmund Andros .
One would have think that the dark old man be chief ruler there , and that the governor and council with soldier at their back , represent the whole power and authority of the Crown , have no alternative but obedience .
`` What do this old fellow here ? ''
cry Edward Randolph , fiercely .
-- `` On , Sir Edmund !
Bid the soldier forward , and give the dotard the same choice that you give all his countryman -- to stand aside or be trample on . ''
`` Nay , nay !
Let u show respect to the good grandsire , '' say Bullivant , laugh .
`` See you not he be some old round-headed dignitary who hath lie asleep these thirty year and know nothing of the change of time ?
Doubtless he think to put u down with a proclamation in Old Noll 's name . ''
`` Are you mad , old man ? ''
demand Sir Edmund Andros , in loud and harsh tone .
`` How dare you stay the march of King James 's governor ? ''
`` I have stay the march of a king himself ere now , '' reply the gray figure , with stern composure .
`` I be here , Sir Governor , because the cry of an oppressed people hath disturb me in my secret place , and , beseech this favor earnestly of the Lord , it be vouchsafe me to appear once again on earth in the good old cause of his saint .
And what speak ye of James ?
There be no longer a popish tyrant on the throne of England , and by to-morrow noon his name shall be a by-word in this very street , where ye would make it a word of terror .
Back , thou that wast a governor , back !
With this night thy power be end .
To-morrow , the prison !
Back , l I foretell the scaffold ! ''
The people have be draw nearer and nearer and drinking in the word of their champion , who speak in accent long disused , like one unaccustomed to converse except with the dead of many year ago .
But his voice stir their soul .
They confront the soldier , not wholly without arm and ready to convert the very stone of the street into deadly weapon .
Sir Edmund Andros look at the old man ; then he cast his hard and cruel eye over the multitude and behold them burn with that lurid wrath so difficult to kindle or to quench , and again he fix his gaze on the age form which stand obscurely in an open space where neither friend nor foe have thrust himself .
What be his thought he utter no word which might discover , but , whether the oppressor be overawe by the Gray Champion 's look or perceive his peril in the threatening attitude of the people , it be certain that he give back and order his soldier to commence a slow and guard retreat .
Before another sunset the governor and all that ride so proudly with him be prisoner , and long ere it be know that James have abdicate King William be proclaim throughout New England .
But where be the Gray Champion ?
Some report that when the troop have go from King street and the people be throng tumultuously in their rear , Bradstreet , the age governor , be see to embrace a form more age than his own .
Others soberly affirm that while they marvel at the venerable grandeur of his aspect the old man have fade from their eye , melt slowly into the hue of twilight , till where he stand there be an empty space .
But all agree that the hoary shape be go .
The men of that generation watch for his reappearance in sunshine and in twilight , but never saw him more , nor know when his funeral pass nor where his gravestone be .
And who be the Gray Champion ?
Perhaps his name might be find in the record of that stern court of justice which pass a sentence too mighty for the age , but glorious in all after-times for it humble lesson to the monarch and it high example to the subject .
I have hear that whenever the descendant of the Puritans be to show the spirit of their sire the old man appear again .
When eighty year have pass , he walk once more in King street .
Five year later , in the twilight of an April morning , he stand on the green beside the meeting-house at Lexington where now the obelisk of granite with a slab of slate inlaid commemorate the first-fallen of the Revolution .
And when our father be toil at the breastwork on Bunker 's Hill , all through that night the old warrior walk his round .
Long , long may it be ere he come again !
His hour be one of darkness and adversity and peril .
But should domestic tyranny oppress u or the invader 's step pollute our soil , still may the Gray Champion come !
for he be the type of New England 's hereditary spirit , and his shadowy march on the eve of danger must ever be the pledge that New England 's son will vindicate their ancestry .
SUNDAY AT HOME .
Every Sabbath morning in the summer-time I thrust back the curtain to watch the sunrise steal down a steeple which stand opposite my chamber window .
First the weathercock begin to flash ; then a fainter lustre give the spire an airy aspect ; next it encroach on the tower and cause the index of the dial to glisten like gold a it point to the gilded figure of the hour .
Now the lofty window gleam , and now the low .
The carved framework of the portal be mark strongly out .
At length the morning glory in it descent from heaven come down the stone step one by one , and there stand the steeple glowing with fresh radiance , while the shade of twilight still hide themselves among the nook of the adjacent building .
Methinks though the same sun brightens it every fair morning , yet the steeple have a peculiar robe of brightness for the Sabbath .
By dwell near a church a person soon contract an attachment for the edifice .
We naturally personify it , and conceive it massy wall and it dim emptiness to be instinct with a calm and meditative and somewhat melancholy spirit .
But the steeple stand foremost in our thought , as well a locally .
It impress u a a giant with a mind comprehensive and discriminate enough to care for the great and small concern of all the town .
Hourly , while it speak a moral to the few that think , it remind thousand of busy individual of their separate and most secret affair .
It be the steeple , too , that fling abroad the hurried and irregular accent of general alarm ; neither have gladness and festivity find a good utterance than by it tongue ; and when the dead be slowly pass to their home , the steeple have a melancholy voice to bid them welcome .
Yet , in spite of this connection with human interest , what a moral loneliness on week-days brood round about it stately height !
It have no kindred with the house above which it tower ; it look down into the narrow thoroughfare -- the lonelier because the crowd be elbow their passage at it base .
A glance at the body of the church deepen this impression .
Within , by the light of distant window , amid refracted shadow we discern the vacant pew and empty gallery , the silent organ , the voiceless pulpit and the clock which tell to solitude how time be pass .
Time -- where man live not -- what be it but eternity ?
And in the church , we might suppose , be garner up throughout the week all thought and feeling that have reference to eternity , until the holy day come round again to let them forth .
Might not , then , it more appropriate site be in the outskirt of the town , with space for old tree to wave around it and throw their solemn shadow over a quiet green ?
We will say more of this hereafter .
But on the Sabbath I watch the early sunshine and fancy that a holy brightness mark the day when there shall be no buzz of voice on the Exchange nor traffic in the shop , nor crowd nor business anywhere but at church .
Many have fancy so .
For my own part , whether I see it scatter down among tangled wood , or beam broad across the field , or hem in between brick building , or trace out the figure of the casement on my chamber floor , still I recognize the Sabbath sunshine .
And ever let me recognize it !
Some illusion -- and this among them -- be the shadow of great truth .
Doubts may flit around me or seem to close their evil wing and settle down , but so long a I imagine that the earth be hallow and the light of heaven retain it sanctity on the Sabbath -- while that bless sunshine life within me -- never can my soul have lose the instinct of it faith .
If it have go astray , it will return again .
I love to spend such pleasant Sabbaths from morning till night behind the curtain of my open window .
Are they spend amiss ?
Every spot so near the church a to be visit by the circle shadow of the steeple should be deem consecrated ground to-day .
With strong truth be it say that a devout heart may consecrate a den of thief , a an evil one may convert a temple to the same .
My heart , perhaps , have no such holy , nor , I would fain trust , such impious , potency .
It must suffice that , though my form be absent , my inner man go constantly to church , while many whose bodily presence fill the accustomed seat have leave their soul at home .
But I be there even before my friend the sexton .
At length he come -- a man of kindly but sombre aspect , in dark gray clothes , and hair of the same mixture .
He come and apply his key to the wide portal .
Now my thought may go in among the dusty pew or ascend the pulpit without sacrilege , but soon come forth again to enjoy the music of the bell .
How glad , yet solemn too !
All the steeple in town be talk together aloft in the sunny air and rejoicing among themselves while their spire point heavenward .
Meantime , here be the child assemble to the Sabbath-school , which be keep somewhere within the church .
Often , while look at the arched portal , I have be gladden by the sight of a score of these little girl and boy in pink , blue , yellow and crimson frock burst suddenly forth into the sunshine like a swarm of gay butterfly that have be shut up in the solemn gloom .
Or I might compare them to cherubs haunt that holy place .
About a quarter of an hour before the second ringing of the bell individual of the congregation begin to appear .
The early be invariably an old woman in black whose bent frame and rounded shoulder be evidently lade with some heavy affliction which she be eager to rest upon the altar .
Would that the Sabbath come twice as often , for the sake of that sorrowful old soul !
There be an elderly man , also , who arrive in good season and lean against the corner of the tower , just within the line of it shadow , look downward with a darksome brow .
I sometimes fancy that the old woman be the happier of the two .
After these , others drop in singly and by two and three , either disappear through the doorway or take their stand in it vicinity .
At last , and always with an unexpected sensation , the bell turn in the steeple overhead and throw out an irregular clangor , jar the tower to it foundation .
As if there be magic in the sound , the sidewalk of the street , both up and down along , be immediately throng with two long line of people , all converge hitherward and stream into the church .
Perhaps the far-off roar of a coach draw nearer -- a deep thunder by it contrast with the surround stillness -- until it set down the wealthy worshipper at the portal among their humble brother .
Beyond that entrance -- in theory , at least -- there be no distinction of earthly rank ; nor , indeed , by the goodly apparel which be flaunt in the sun would there seem to be such on the hither side .
Those pretty girl !
Why will they disturb my pious meditation ?
Of all day in the week , they should strive to look least fascinate on the Sabbath , instead of heighten their mortal loveliness , a if to rival the blessed angel and keep our thought from heaven .
Were I the minister himself , I must need look .
One girl be white muslin from the waist upward and black silk downward to her slipper ; a second blush from top-knot to shoe-tie , one universal scarlet ; another shine of a pervading yellow , a if she have make a garment of the sunshine .
The great part , however , have adopt a milder cheerfulness of hue .
Their veil , especially when the wind raise them , give a lightness to the general effect and make them appear like airy phantom a they flit up the step and vanish into the sombre doorway .
Nearly all -- though it be very strange that I should know it -- wear white stocking , white a snow , and neat slipper lace crosswise with black ribbon pretty high above the ankle .
A white stocking be infinitely more effective than a black one .
Here come the clergyman , slow and solemn , in severe simplicity , need no black silk gown to denote his office .
His aspect claim my reverence , but can not win my love .
Were I to picture Saint Peter keep fast the gate of Heaven and frowning , more stern than pitiful , on the wretched applicant , that face should be my study .
By middle age , or sooner , the creed have generally work upon the heart or be attemper by it .
As the minister pass into the church the bell hold it iron tongue and all the low murmur of the congregation die away .
The gray sexton look up and down the street and then at my window-curtain , where through the small peephole I half fancy that he have catch my eye .
Now every loiterer have go in and the street lie asleep in the quiet sun , while a feeling of loneliness come over me , and bring also an uneasy sense of neglected privilege and duty .
Oh , I ought to have go to church !
The bustle of the rise congregation reach my ear .
They be stand up to pray .
Could I bring my heart into unison with those who be pray in yonder church and lift it heavenward with a fervor of supplication , but no distinct request , would not that be the safe kind of prayer ?
-- `` Lord , look down upon me in mercy ! ''
With that sentiment gush from my soul , might I not leave all the rest to him ?
Hark !
the hymn !
This , at least , be a portion of the service which I can enjoy good than if I sit within the wall , where the full choir and the massive melody of the organ would fall with a weight upon me .
At this distance it thrill through my frame and play upon my heart-strings with a pleasure both of the sense and spirit .
Heaven be praise !
I know nothing of music a a science , and the most elaborate harmony , if they please me , please as simply a a nurse 's lullaby .
The strain have cease , but prolongs itself in my mind with fanciful echo till I start from my reverie and find that the sermon have commence .
It be my misfortune seldom to fructify in a regular way by any but printed sermon .
The first strong idea which the preacher utters give birth to a train of thought and lead me onward step by step quite out of hearing of the good man 's voice unless he be indeed a son of thunder .
At my open window , catch now and then a sentence of the `` parson 's saw , '' I be as well situate a at the foot of the pulpit stair .
The broken and scatter fragment of this one discourse will be the text of many sermon preach by those colleague pastor -- colleague , but often disputant -- my Mind and Heart .
The former pretend to be a scholar and perplex me with doctrinal point ; the latter take me on the score of feeling ; and both , like several other preacher , spend their strength to very little purpose .
I , their sole auditor , can not always understand them .
Suppose that a few hour have pass , and behold me still behind my curtain just before the close of the afternoon service .
The hour-hand on the dial have pass beyond four o'clock .
The decline sun be hide behind the steeple and throw it shadow straight across the street ; so that my chamber be darken a with a cloud .
Around the church door all be solitude , and an impenetrable obscurity beyond the threshold .
A commotion be hear .
The seat be slam down and the pew door throw back ; a multitude of foot be trample along the unseen aisle , and the congregation burst suddenly through the portal .
Foremost scamper a rabble of boy , behind whom move a dense and dark phalanx of grown men , and lastly a crowd of female with young child and a few scattered husband .
This instantaneous outbreak of life into loneliness be one of the pleasant scene of the day .
Some of the good people be rub their eye , thereby intimate that they have be wrap , a it be , in a sort of holy trance by the fervor of their devotion .
There be a young man , a third-rate coxcomb , whose first care be always to flourish a white handkerchief and brush the seat of a tight pair of black silk pantaloon which shine a if varnish .
They must have be make of the stuff call `` everlasting , '' or perhaps of the same piece a Christian 's garment in the Pilgrim 's Progress , for he put them on two summer ago and have not yet wear the gloss off .
I have take a great liking to those black silk pantaloon .
But now , with nod and greeting among friend , each matron take her husband 's arm and pace gravely homeward , while the girl also flutter away after arrange sunset walk with their favored bachelor .
The Sabbath eve be the eve of love .
At length the whole congregation be disperse .
No ; here , with face as glossy a black satin , come two sable lady and a sable gentleman , and close in their rear the minister , who soften his severe visage and bestow a kind word on each .
Poor soul !
To them the most captivating picture of bliss in heaven be `` There we shall be white ! ''
All be solitude again .
But hark !
A broken warbling of voice , and now , attune it grandeur to their sweetness , a stately peal of the organ .
Who be the chorister ?
Let me dream that the angel who come down from heaven this bless morn to blend themselves with the worship of the truly good be play and sing their farewell to the earth .
On the wing of that rich melody they be borne upward .
This , gentle reader , be merely a flight of poetry .
A few of the singing-men and singing-women have linger behind their fellow and raise their voice fitfully and blow a careless note upon the organ .
Yet it lift my soul high than all their former strain .
They be go -- the son and daughter of Music -- and the gray sexton be just close the portal .
For six day more there will be no face of man in the pew and aisle and gallery , nor a voice in the pulpit , nor music in the choir .
Was it worth while to rear this massive edifice to be a desert in the heart of the town and populous only for a few hour of each seventh day ?
Oh , but the church be a symbol of religion .
May it site , which be consecrate on the day when the first tree be fell , be keep holy for ever , a spot of solitude and peace amid the trouble and vanity of our week-day world !
There be a moral , and a religion too , even in the silent wall .
And may the steeple still point heavenward and be deck with the hallowed sunshine of the Sabbath morn !
THE WEDDING-KNELL .
There be a certain church , in the city of New York which I have always regard with peculiar interest on account of a marriage there solemnize under very singular circumstance in my grandmother 's girlhood .
That venerable lady chance to be a spectator of the scene , and ever after make it her favorite narrative .
Whether the edifice now stand on the same site be the identical one to which she refer I be not antiquarian enough to know , nor would it be worth while to correct myself , perhaps , of an agreeable error by read the date of it erection on the tablet over the door .
It be a stately church surround by an enclosure of the lovely green , within which appear urn , pillar , obelisk , and other form of monumental marble , the tribute of private affection or more splendid memorial of historic dust .
With such a place , though the tumult of the city roll beneath it tower , one would be willing to connect some legendary interest .
The marriage might be consider a the result of an early engagement , though there have be two intermediate wedding on the lady 's part and forty year of celibacy on that of the gentleman .
At sixty-five Mr. Ellenwood be a shy but not quite a secluded man ; selfish , like all men who brood over their own heart , yet manifest on rare occasion a vein of generous sentiment ; a scholar throughout life , though always an indolent one , because his study have no definite object either of public advantage or personal ambition ; a gentleman , high-bred and fastidiously delicate , yet sometimes require a considerable relaxation in his behalf of the common rule of society .
In truth , there be so many anomaly in his character , and , though shrink with diseased sensibility from public notice , it have be his fatality so often to become the topic of the day by some wild eccentricity of conduct , that people search his lineage for a hereditary taint of insanity .
But there be no need of this .
His caprice have their origin in a mind that lack the support of an engross purpose , and in feeling that prey upon themselves for want of other food .
If he be mad , it be the consequence , and not the cause , of an aimless and abortive life .
The widow be a complete a contrast to her third bridegroom in everything but age a can well be conceive .
Compelled to relinquish her first engagement , she have be unite to a man of twice her own year , to whom she become an exemplary wife , and by whose death she be leave in possession of a splendid fortune .
A Southern gentleman considerably young than herself succeed to her hand and carry her to Charleston , where after many uncomfortable year she find herself again a widow .
It would have be singular if any uncommon delicacy of feeling have survive through such a life a Mrs. Dabney 's ; it could not but be crush and kill by her early disappointment , the cold duty of her first marriage , the dislocation of the heart 's principle consequent on a second union , and the unkindness of her Southern husband , which have inevitably drive her to connect the idea of his death with that of her comfort .
To be brief , she be that wise but unloveliest variety of woman , a philosopher , bear trouble of the heart with equanimity , dispense with all that should have be her happiness and make the best of what remain .
Sage in most matter , the widow be perhaps the more amiable for the one frailty that make her ridiculous .
Being childless , she could not remain beautiful by proxy in the person of a daughter ; she therefore refuse to grow old and ugly on any consideration ; she struggle with Time , and hold fast her rose in spite of him , till the venerable thief appear to have relinquish the spoil a not worth the trouble of acquire it .
The approaching marriage of this woman of the world with such an unworldly man a Mr. Ellenwood be announce soon after Mrs. Dabney 's return to her native city .
Superficial observer , and deep one , seem to concur in suppose that the lady must have bear no inactive part in arrange the affair ; there be consideration of expediency which she would be far more likely to appreciate than Mr. Ellenwood , and there be just the specious phantom of sentiment and romance in this late union of two early lover which sometimes make a fool of a woman who have lose her true feeling among the accident of life .
All the wonder be how the gentleman , with his lack of worldly wisdom and agonize consciousness of ridicule , could have be induce to take a measure at once so prudent and so laughable .
But while people talk the wedding-day arrived .
The ceremony be to be solemnize accord to the Episcopalian form and in open church , with a degree of publicity that attract many spectator , who occupy the front seat of the gallery and the pew near the altar and along the broad aisle .
It have be arrange , or possibly it be the custom of the day , that the party should proceed separately to church .
By some accident the bridegroom be a little less punctual than the widow and her bridal attendant , with whose arrival , after this tedious but necessary preface , the action of our tale may be say to commence .
The clumsy wheel of several old-fashioned coach be hear , and the gentleman and lady compose the bridal-party come through the church door with the sudden and gladsome effect of a burst of sunshine .
The whole group , except the principal figure , be make up of youth and gayety .
As they stream up the broad aisle , while the pew and pillar seem to brighten on either side , their step be as buoyant a if they mistake the church for a ball-room and be ready to dance hand in hand to the altar .
So brilliant be the spectacle that few take notice of a singular phenomenon that have mark it entrance .
At the moment when the bride 's foot touch the threshold the bell swing heavily in the tower above her and send forth it deep knell .
The vibration die away , and return with prolonged solemnity a she enter the body of the church .
`` Good heaven !
What an omen ! ''
whisper a young lady to her lover .
`` On my honor , '' reply the gentleman , `` I believe the bell have the good taste to toll of it own accord .
What have she to do with wedding ?
If you , dear Julia , be approach the altar , the bell would ring out it merry peal .
It have only a funeral-knell for her . ''
The bride and most of her company have be too much occupy with the bustle of entrance to hear the first bode stroke of the bell -- or , at least , to reflect on the singularity of such a welcome to the altar .
They therefore continue to advance with undiminished gayety .
The gorgeous dress of the time -- the crimson velvet coat , the gold-laced hat , the hoop-petticoats , the silk , satin , brocade and embroidery , the buckle , cane and sword , all display to the best advantage on person suit to such finery -- make the group appear more like a bright-colored picture than anything real .
But by what perversity of taste have the artist represent his principal figure a so wrinkled and decay , while yet he have deck her out in the bright splendor of attire , a if the lovely maiden have suddenly wither into age and become a moral to the beautiful around her ?
On they go , however , and have glitter along about a third of the aisle , when another stroke of the bell seem to fill the church with a visible gloom , dim and obscure the bright-pageant till it shine forth again a from a mist .
This time the party waver , stop and huddle close together , while a slight scream be hear from some of the lady and a confused whispering among the gentleman .
Thus toss to and fro , they might have be fancifully compare to a splendid bunch of flower suddenly shake by a puff of wind which threaten to scatter the leaf of an old brown , wither rise on the same stalk with two dewy bud , such be the emblem of the widow between her fair young bridemaids .
But her heroism be admirable .
She have start with an irrepressible shudder , a if the stroke of the bell have fall directly on her heart ; then , recover herself , while her attendant be yet in dismay , she take the lead and pace calmly up the aisle .
The bell continue to swing , strike and vibrate with the same doleful regularity a when a corpse be on it way to the tomb .
`` My young friend here have their nerve a little shaken , '' say the widow , with a smile , to the clergyman at the altar .
`` But so many wedding have be usher in with the merry peal of the bell , and yet turn out unhappily , that I shall hope for good fortune under such different auspex . ''
`` Madam , '' answer the rector , in great perplexity , `` this strange occurrence brings to my mind a marriage-sermon of the famous Bishop Taylor wherein he mingle so many thought of mortality and future woe that , to speak somewhat after his own rich style , he seem to hang the bridal-chamber in black and cut the wedding-garment out of a coffin-pall .
And it have be the custom of diver nation to infuse something of sadness into their marriage ceremony , so to keep death in mind while contract that engagement which be life 's chiefest business .
Thus we may draw a sad but profitable moral from this funeral-knell . ''
But , though the clergyman might have give his moral even a keener point , he do not fail to despatch an attendant to inquire into the mystery and stop those sound so dismally appropriate to such a marriage .
A brief space elapse , during which the silence be break only by whisper and a few suppressed titterings among the wedding-party and the spectator , who after the first shock be dispose to draw an ill-natured merriment from the affair .
The young have less charity for aged folly than the old for those of youth .
The widow 's glance be observe to wander for an instant toward a window of the church , a if search for the time-worn marble that she have dedicate to her first husband ; then her eyelid drop over their fade orb and her thought be draw irresistibly to another grave .
Two bury men with a voice at her ear and a cry afar off be call her to lie down beside them .
Perhaps , with momentary truth of feeling , she think how much happier have be her fate if , after year of bliss , the bell be now toll for her funeral and she be follow to the grave by the old affection of her early lover , long her husband .
But why have she return to him when their cold heart shrink from each other 's embrace ?
Still the death-bell toll so mournfully that the sunshine seem to fade in the air .
A whisper , communicate from those who stand near the window , now spread through the church : a hearse with a train of several coach be creep along the street , convey some dead man to the churchyard , while the bride await a live one at the altar .
Immediately after , the footstep of the bridegroom and his friend be hear at the door .
The widow look down the aisle and clench the arm of one of her bridemaids in her bony hand with such unconscious violence that the fair girl tremble .
`` You frighten me , my dear madam , '' cry she .
`` For heaven 's sake , what be the matter ? ''
`` Nothing , my dear -- nothing , '' say the widow ; then , whisper close to her ear , `` There be a foolish fancy that I can not get rid of .
I be expect my bridegroom to come into the church with my two first husband for groomsman . ''
`` Look !
look ! ''
scream the bridemaid .
`` What be here ?
The funeral ! ''
As she speak a dark procession pace into the church .
First come an old man and woman , like chief mourner at a funeral , attire from head to foot in the deep black , all but their pale feature and hoary hair , he lean on a staff and support her decrepit form with his nerveless arm .
Behind appear another and another pair , a age , a black and mournful a the first .
As they draw near the widow recognize in every face some trait of former friend long forgotten , but now return a if from their old graf to warn her to prepare a shroud , or , with purpose almost a unwelcome , to exhibit their wrinkle and infirmity and claim her a their companion by the token of her own decay .
Many a merry night have she dance with them in youth , and now in joyless age she felt that some wither partner should request her hand and all unite in a dance of death to the music of the funeral-bell .
While these age mourner be pass up the aisle it be observe that from pew to pew the spectator shudder with irrepressible awe a some object hitherto conceal by the intervening figure come full in sight .
Many turn away their face ; others keep a fixed and rigid stare , and a young girl giggle hysterically and faint with the laughter on her lip .
When the spectral procession approach the altar , each couple separate and slowly diverge , till in the centre appear a form that have be worthily usher in with all this gloomy pomp , the death-knell and the funeral .
It be the bridegroom in his shroud .
No garb but that of the grave could have befit such a death-like aspect .
The eye , indeed , have the wild gleam of a sepulchral lamp ; all else be fix in the stern calmness which old men wear in the coffin .
The corpse stand motionless , but address the widow in accent that seem to melt into the clang of the bell , which fell heavily on the air while he speak .
`` Come , my bride ! ''
say those pale lip .
`` The hearse be ready ; the sexton stand wait for u at the door of the tomb .
Let u be marry , and then to our coffin ! ''
How shall the widow 's horror be represent ?
It give her the ghastliness of a dead man 's bride .
Her youthful friend stand apart , shudder at the mourner , the shrouded bridegroom and herself ; the whole scene express by the strong imagery the vain struggle of the gilded vanity of this world when oppose to age , infirmity , sorrow and death .
The awestruck silence be first break by the clergyman .
`` Mr. Ellenwood , '' say he , soothingly , yet with somewhat of authority , `` you be not well .
Your mind have be agitate by the unusual circumstance in which you be place .
The ceremony must be defer .
As an old friend , let me entreat you to return home . ''
`` Home -- yes ; but not without my bride , '' answer he , in the same hollow accent .
`` You deem this mockery -- perhaps madness .
Had I bedizen my aged and broken frame with scarlet and embroidery , have I force my withered lip to smile at my dead heart , that might have be mockery or madness ; but now let young and old declare which of u have come hither without a wedding-garment -- the bridegroom or the bride . ''
He step forward at a ghostly pace and stand beside the widow , contrast the awful simplicity of his shroud with the glare and glitter in which she have array herself for this unhappy scene .
None that behold them could deny the terrible strength of the moral which his disordered intellect have contrive to draw .
`` Cruel !
cruel ! ''
groan the heartstricken bride .
`` Cruel ? ''
repeat he ; then , lose his deathlike composure in a wild bitterness , `` Heaven judge which of u have be cruel to the other !
In youth you deprive me of my happiness , my hope , my aim ; you take away all the substance of my life and make it a dream without reality enough even to grieve at -- with only a pervading gloom , through which I walk wearily and care not whither .
But after forty year , when I have build my tomb and would not give up the thought of rest there -- no , not for such a life a we once picture -- you call me to the altar .
At your summons I be here .
But other husband have enjoy your youth , your beauty , your warmth of heart and all that could be term your life .
What be there for me but your decay and death ?
And therefore I have bid these funeral-friends , and bespeak the sexton 's deep knell , and be come in my shroud to wed you a with a burial-service , that we may join our hand at the door of the sepulchre and enter it together . ''
It be not frenzy , it be not merely the drunkenness of strong emotion in a heart unused to it , that now work upon the bride .
The stern lesson of the day have do it work ; her worldliness be go .
She seize the bridegroom 's hand .
`` Yes ! ''
cry she ; `` let u wed even at the door of the sepulchre .
My life be go in vanity and emptiness , but at it close there be one true feeling .
It have make me what I be in youth : it make me worthy of you .
Time be no more for both of u .
Let u wed for eternity . ''
With a long and deep regard the bridegroom look into her eye , while a tear be gather in his own .
How strange that gush of human feeling from the frozen bosom of a corpse !
He wipe away the tear , even with his shroud .
`` Beloved of my youth , '' say he , `` I have be wild .
The despair of my whole lifetime have return at once and madden me .
Forgive and be forgive .
Yes ; it be even with u now , and we have realize none of our morning dream of happiness .
But let u join our hand before the altar a lover whom adverse circumstance have separate through life , yet who meet again a they be leave it and find their earthly affection change into something holy a religion .
And what be time to the marry of eternity ? ''
Amid the tear of many and a swell of exalted sentiment in those who felt aright be solemnize the union of two immortal soul .
The train of withered mourner , the hoary bridegroom in his shroud , the pale feature of the age bride and the death-bell tolling through the whole till it deep voice overpower the marriage-words , -- all mark the funeral of earthly hope .
But a the ceremony proceed , the organ , a if stir by the sympathy of this impressive scene , pour forth an anthem , first mingle with the dismal knell , then rise to a lofty strain , till the soul look down upon it woe .
And when the awful rite be finish and with cold hand in cold hand the married of eternity withdrew , the organ 's peal of solemn triumph drown the wedding-knell .
THE MINISTER 'S BLACK VEIL .
A PARABLE .
-LSB- 1 -RSB- The sexton stand in the porch of Milford meeting-house pull lustily at the bell-rope .
The old people of the village come stoop along the street .
Children with bright face trip merrily beside their parent or mimic a graver gait in the conscious dignity of their Sunday clothes .
Spruce bachelor look sidelong at the pretty maiden , and fancy that the Sabbath sunshine make them pretty than on week-days .
When the throng have mostly stream into the porch , the sexton begin to toll the bell , keep his eye on the Reverend Mr. Hooper 's door .
The first glimpse of the clergyman 's figure be the signal for the bell to cease it summons .
-LSB- Footnote 1 : Another clergyman in New England , Mr. Joseph Moody , of York , Maine , who die about eighty year since , make himself remarkable by the same eccentricity that be here relate of the Reverend Mr. Hooper .
In his case , however , the symbol have a different import .
In early life he have accidentally kill a beloved friend , and from that day till the hour of his own death he hide his face from men . -RSB-
`` But what have good Parson Hooper get upon his face ? ''
cry the sexton , in astonishment .
All within hear immediately turn about and behold the semblance of Mr. Hooper pace slowly his meditative way toward the meeting-house .
With one accord they start , express more wonder than if some strange minister be come to dust the cushion of Mr. Hooper 's pulpit .
`` Are you sure it be our parson ? ''
inquired Goodman Gray of the sexton .
`` Of a certainty it be good Mr. Hooper , '' reply the sexton .
`` He be to have exchange pulpit with Parson Shute of Westbury , but Parson Shute send to excuse himself yesterday , be to preach a funeral sermon . ''
The cause of so much amazement may appear sufficiently slight .
Mr. Hooper , a gentlemanly person of about thirty , though still a bachelor , be dress with due clerical neatness , a if a careful wife have starch his band and brush the weekly dust from his Sunday 's garb .
There be but one thing remarkable in his appearance .
Swathed about his forehead and hang down over his face , so low a to be shake by his breath , Mr. Hooper have on a black veil .
On a nearer view it seem to consist of two fold of crape , which entirely conceal his feature except the mouth and chin , but probably do not intercept his sight far than to give a darkened aspect to all living and inanimate thing .
With this gloomy shade before him good Mr. Hooper walk onward at a slow and quiet pace , stoop somewhat and look on the ground , a be customary with abstracted men , yet nod kindly to those of his parishioner who still wait on the meeting-house step .
But so wonder-struck be they that his greet hardly meet with a return .
`` I ca n't really feel a if good Mr. Hooper 's face be behind that piece of crape , '' say the sexton .
`` I do n't like it , '' mutter an old woman a she hobble into the meeting-house .
`` He have change himself into something awful only by hide his face . ''
`` Our parson have go mad ! ''
cry Goodman Gray , follow him across the threshold .
A rumor of some unaccountable phenomenon have precede Mr. Hooper into the meeting-house and set all the congregation astir .
Few could refrain from twist their head toward the door ; many stand upright and turn directly about ; while several little boy clamber upon the seat , and come down again with a terrible racket .
There be a general bustle , a rustling of the woman 's gown and shuffling of the men 's foot , greatly at variance with that hush repose which should attend the entrance of the minister .
But Mr. Hooper appear not to notice the perturbation of his people .
He enter with an almost noiseless step , bend his head mildly to the pew on each side and bow a he pass his old parishioner , a white-haired great-grandsire , who occupy an arm-chair in the centre of the aisle .
It be strange to observe how slowly this venerable man become conscious of something singular in the appearance of his pastor .
He seem not fully to partake of the prevail wonder till Mr. Hooper have ascend the stair and show himself in the pulpit , face to face with his congregation except for the black veil .
That mysterious emblem be never once withdrawn .
It shake with his measured breath a he give out the psalm , it throw it obscurity between him and the holy page a he read the Scriptures , and while he pray the veil lay heavily on his uplifted countenance .
Did he seek to hide it from the dread Being whom he be address ?
Such be the effect of this simple piece of crape that more than one woman of delicate nerve be force to leave the meeting-house .
Yet perhaps the pale-faced congregation be almost a fearful a sight to the minister a his black veil to them .
Mr. Hooper have the reputation of a good preacher , but not an energetic one : he strive to win his people heavenward by mild , persuasive influence rather than to drive them thither by the thunder of the word .
The sermon which he now deliver be mark by the same characteristic of style and manner a the general series of his pulpit oratory , but there be something either in the sentiment of the discourse itself or in the imagination of the auditor which make it greatly the most powerful effort that they have ever hear from their pastor 's lip .
It be ting rather more darkly than usual with the gentle gloom of Mr. Hooper 's temperament .
The subject have reference to secret sin and those sad mystery which we hide from our near and dear , and would fain conceal from our own consciousness , even forget that the Omniscient can detect them .
A subtle power be breathe into his word .
Each member of the congregation , the most innocent girl and the man of harden breast , felt a if the preacher have creep upon them behind his awful veil and discover their hoarded iniquity of deed or thought .
Many spread their clasped hand on their bosom .
There be nothing terrible in what Mr. Hooper say -- at least , no violence ; and yet with every tremor of his melancholy voice the hearer quake .
An unsought pathos come hand in hand with awe .
So sensible be the audience of some unwonted attribute in their minister that they long for a breath of wind to blow aside the veil , almost believe that a stranger 's visage would be discover , though the form , gesture and voice be those of Mr. Hooper .
At the close of the service the people hurry out with indecorous confusion , eager to communicate their pent-up amazement , and conscious of light spirit the moment they lose sight of the black veil .
Some gather in little circle , huddle closely together , with their mouth all whispering in the centre ; some go homeward alone , wrap in silent meditation ; some talk loudly and profane the Sabbath-day with ostentatious laughter .
A few shook their sagacious head , intimate that they could penetrate the mystery , while one or two affirm that there be no mystery at all , but only that Mr. Hooper 's eye be so weaken by the midnight lamp a to require a shade .
After a brief interval forth come good Mr. Hooper also , in the rear of his flock .
Turning his veiled face from one group to another , he pay due reverence to the hoary head , salute the middle-aged with kind dignity a their friend and spiritual guide , greet the young with mingled authority and love , and lay his hand on the little child 's head to bless them .
Such be always his custom on the Sabbath-day .
Strange and bewilder look repay him for his courtesy .
None , a on former occasion , aspire to the honor of walk by their pastor 's side .
Old Squire Saunders -- doubtless by an accidental lapse of memory -- neglect to invite Mr. Hooper to his table , where the good clergyman have be wont to bless the food almost every Sunday since his settlement .
He return , therefore , to the parsonage , and at the moment of close the door be observe to look back upon the people , all of whom have their eye fix upon the minister .
A sad smile gleam faintly from beneath the black veil and flicker about his mouth , glimmer a he disappear .
`` How strange , '' say a lady , `` that a simple black veil , such a any woman might wear on her bonnet , should become such a terrible thing on Mr. Hooper 's face ! ''
`` Something must surely be amiss with Mr. Hooper 's intellect , '' observe her husband , the physician of the village .
`` But the strange part of the affair be the effect of this vagary even on a sober-minded man like myself .
The black veil , though it cover only our pastor 's face , throw it influence over his whole person and make him ghost-like from head to foot .
Do you not feel it so ? ''
`` Truly do I , '' reply the lady ; `` and I would not be alone with him for the world .
I wonder he be not afraid to be alone with himself . ''
`` Men sometimes be so , '' say her husband .
The afternoon service be attend with similar circumstance .
At it conclusion the bell toll for the funeral of a young lady .
The relative and friend be assemble in the house and the more distant acquaintance stand about the door , speaking of the good quality of the decease , when their talk be interrupt by the appearance of Mr. Hooper , still cover with his black veil .
It be now an appropriate emblem .
The clergyman step into the room where the corpse be lay , and bent over the coffin to take a last farewell of his deceased parishioner .
As he stoop the veil hung straight down from his forehead , so that , if her eye-lids have not be close for ever , the dead maiden might have see his face .
Could Mr. Hooper be fearful of her glance , that he so hastily catch back the black veil ?
A person who watch the interview between the dead and live scruple not to affirm that at the instant when the clergyman 's feature be disclose the corpse have slightly shudder , rustle the shroud and muslin cap , though the countenance retain the composure of death .
A superstitious old woman be the only witness of this prodigy .
From the coffin Mr. Hooper pass into the chamber of the mourner , and thence to the head of the staircase , to make the funeral prayer .
It be a tender and heart-dissolving prayer , full of sorrow , yet so imbued with celestial hope that the music of a heavenly harp sweep by the finger of the dead seem faintly to be hear among the sad accent of the minister .
The people tremble , though they but darkly understand him , when he pray that they and himself , and all of mortal race , might be ready , a he trust this young maiden have be , for the dreadful hour that should snatch the veil from their face .
The bearer go heavily forth and the mourner follow , sadden all the street , with the dead before them and Mr. Hooper in his black veil behind .
`` Why do you look back ? ''
say one in the procession to his partner .
`` I have a fancy , '' reply she , `` that the minister and the maiden 's spirit be walk hand in hand . ''
`` And so have I at the same moment , '' say the other .
That night the handsome couple in Milford village be to be join in wedlock .
Though reckon a melancholy man , Mr. Hooper have a placid cheerfulness for such occasion which often excite a sympathetic smile where livelier merriment would have be throw away .
There be no quality of his disposition which make him more beloved than this .
The company at the wedding await his arrival with impatience , trust that the strange awe which have gather over him throughout the day would now be dispel .
But such be not the result .
When Mr. Hooper come , the first thing that their eye rest on be the same horrible black veil which have add deeper gloom to the funeral and could portend nothing but evil to the wedding .
Such be it immediate effect on the guest that a cloud seem to have roll duskily from beneath the black crape and dim the light of the candle .
The bridal pair stand up before the minister , but the bride 's cold finger quiver in the tremulous hand of the bridegroom , and her death-like paleness cause a whisper that the maiden who have be bury a few hour before be come from her grave to be marry .
If ever another wedding be so dismal , it be that famous one where they toll the wedding-knell .
After perform the ceremony Mr. Hooper raise a glass of wine to his lip , wish happiness to the new-married couple in a strain of mild pleasantry that ought to have brighten the feature of the guest like a cheerful gleam from the hearth .
At that instant , catch a glimpse of his figure in the looking-glass , the black veil involve his own spirit in the horror with which it overwhelm all others .
His frame shudder , his lip grow white , he spill the untasted wine upon the carpet and rush forth into the darkness , for the Earth too have on her black veil .
The next day the whole village of Milford talk of little else than Parson Hooper 's black veil .
That , and the mystery conceal behind it , supply a topic for discussion between acquaintance meet in the street and good woman gossipping at their open window .
It be the first item of news that the tavernkeeper tell to his guest .
The child babble of it on their way to school .
One imitative little imp cover his face with an old black handkerchief , thereby so affright his playmate that the panic seize himself and he wellnigh lose his wit by his own waggery .
It be remarkable that , of all the busybody and impertinent people in the parish , not one venture to put the plain question to Mr. Hooper wherefore he do this thing .
Hitherto , whenever there appear the slight call for such interference , he have never lack adviser nor show himself averse to be guide by their judgment .
If he err at all , it be by so painful a degree of self-distrust that even the mild censure would lead him to consider an indifferent action a a crime .
Yet , though so well acquaint with this amiable weakness , no individual among his parishioner choose to make the black veil a subject of friendly remonstrance .
There be a feeling of dread , neither plainly confessed nor carefully conceal , which cause each to shift the responsibility upon another , till at length it be find expedient to send a deputation of the church , in order to deal with Mr. Hooper about the mystery before it should grow into a scandal .
Never do an embassy so ill discharge it duty .
The minister receive them with friendly courtesy , but become silent after they be seat , leave to his visitor the whole burden of introduce their important business .
The topic , it might be suppose , be obvious enough .
There be the black veil swathe round Mr. Hooper 's forehead and conceal every feature above his placid mouth , on which , at time , they could perceive the glimmering of a melancholy smile .
But that piece of crape , to their imagination , seem to hang down before his heart , the symbol of a fearful secret between him and them .
Were the veil but cast aside , they might speak freely of it , but not till then .
Thus they sit a considerable time , speechless , confuse and shrink uneasily from Mr. Hooper 's eye , which they felt to be fix upon them with an invisible glance .
Finally , the deputy return abash to their constituent , pronounce the matter too weighty to be handle except by a council of the church , if , indeed , it might not require a General Synod .
But there be one person in the village unappalled by the awe with which the black veil have impress all besides herself .
When the deputy return without an explanation , or even venture to demand one , she with the calm energy of her character determine to chase away the strange cloud that appear to be settle round Mr. Hooper every moment more darkly than before .
As his plighted wife it should be her privilege to know what the black veil conceal .
At the minister 's first visit , therefore , she enter upon the subject with a direct simplicity which make the task easy both for him and her .
After he have seat himself she fix her eye steadfastly upon the veil , but could discern nothing of the dreadful gloom that have so overawe the multitude ; it be but a double fold of crape hang down from his forehead to his mouth and slightly stir with his breath .
`` No , '' say she , aloud , and smiling , `` there be nothing terrible in this piece of crape , except that it hide a face which I be always glad to look upon .
Come , good sir ; let the sun shine from behind the cloud .
First lay aside your black veil , then tell me why you put it on . ''
Mr. Hooper 's smile glimmer faintly .
`` There be an hour to come , '' say he , `` when all of u shall cast aside our veil .
Take it not amiss , beloved friend , if I wear this piece of crape till then . ''
`` Your word be a mystery too , '' return the young lady .
`` Take away the veil from them , at least . ''
`` Elizabeth , I will , '' say he , `` so far a my vow may suffer me .
Know , then , this veil be a type and a symbol , and I be bound to wear it ever , both in light and darkness , in solitude and before the gaze of multitude , and a with stranger , so with my familiar friend .
No mortal eye will see it withdrawn .
This dismal shade must separate me from the world ; even you , Elizabeth , can never come behind it . ''
`` What grievous affliction hath befallen you , '' she earnestly inquire , `` that you should thus darken your eye for ever ? ''
`` If it be a sign of mourning , '' reply Mr. Hooper , `` I , perhaps , like most other mortal , have sorrow dark enough to be typify by a black veil . ''
`` But what if the world will not believe that it be the type of an innocent sorrow ? ''
urge Elizabeth .
`` Beloved and respect a you be , there may be whisper that you hide your face under the consciousness of secret sin .
For the sake of your holy office do away this scandal . ''
The color rise into her cheek a she intimate the nature of the rumor that be already abroad in the village .
But Mr. Hooper 's mildness do not forsake him .
He even smile again -- that same sad smile which always appear like a faint glimmering of light proceed from the obscurity beneath the veil .
`` If I hide my face for sorrow , there be cause enough , '' he merely reply ; `` and if I cover it for secret sin , what mortal might not do the same ? ''
And with this gentle but unconquerable obstinacy do he resist all her entreaty .
At length Elizabeth sit silent .
For a few moment she appear lose in thought , consider , probably , what new method might be try to withdraw her lover from so dark a fantasy , which , if it have no other meaning , be perhaps a symptom of mental disease .
Though of a firm character than his own , the tear roll down her cheek .
But in an instant , a it be , a new feeling take the place of sorrow : her eye be fix insensibly on the black veil , when like a sudden twilight in the air it terror fell around her .
She arise and stand tremble before him .
`` And do you feel it , then , at last ? ''
say he , mournfully .
She make no reply , but cover her eye with her hand and turn to leave the room .
He rush forward and catch her arm .
`` Have patience with me , Elizabeth ! ''
cry he , passionately .
`` Do not desert me though this veil must be between u here on earth .
Be mine , and hereafter there shall be no veil over my face , no darkness between our soul .
It be but a mortal veil ; it be not for eternity .
Oh , you know not how lonely I be , and how frightened to be alone behind my black veil !
Do not leave me in this miserable obscurity for ever . ''
`` Lift the veil but once and look me in the face , '' say she .
`` Never !
It can not be ! ''
reply Mr. Hooper .
`` Then farewell ! ''
say Elizabeth .
She withdraw her arm from his grasp and slowly depart , pause at the door to give one long , shudder gaze that seem almost to penetrate the mystery of the black veil .
But even amid his grief Mr. Hooper smile to think that only a material emblem have separate him from happiness , though the horror which it shadow forth must be draw darkly between the fond of lover .
From that time no attempt be make to remove Mr. Hooper 's black veil or by a direct appeal to discover the secret which it be suppose to hide .
By person who claim a superiority to popular prejudice it be reckon merely an eccentric whim , such a often mingle with the sober action of men otherwise rational and ting them all with it own semblance of insanity .
But with the multitude good Mr. Hooper be irreparably a bugbear .
He could not walk the street with any peace of mind , so conscious be he that the gentle and timid would turn aside to avoid him , and that others would make it a point of hardihood to throw themselves in his way .
The impertinence of the latter class compel him to give up his customary walk at sunset to the burial-ground ; for when he lean pensively over the gate , there would always be face behind the gravestone peep at his black veil .
A fable go the round that the stare of the dead people drive him thence .
It grieve him to the very depth of his kind heart to observe how the child flee from his approach , break up their merry sport while his melancholy figure be yet afar off .
Their instinctive dread cause him to feel more strongly than aught else that a preternatural horror be interweave with the thread of the black crape .
In truth , his own antipathy to the veil be know to be so great that he never willingly pass before a mirror nor stoop to drink at a still fountain l in it peaceful bosom he should be affright by himself .
This be what give plausibility to the whisper that Mr. Hooper 's conscience torture him for some great crime too horrible to be entirely conceal or otherwise than so obscurely intimate .
Thus from beneath the black veil there roll a cloud into the sunshine , an ambiguity of sin or sorrow , which envelop the poor minister , so that love or sympathy could never reach him .
It be say that ghost and fiend consort with him there .
With self-shudderings and outward terror he walk continually in it shadow , grope darkly within his own soul or gaze through a medium that sadden the whole world .
Even the lawless wind , it be believe , respect his dreadful secret and never blow aside the veil .
But still good Mr. Hooper sadly smile at the pale visage of the worldly throng a he pass by .
Among all it bad influence , the black veil have the one desirable effect of make it wearer a very efficient clergyman .
By the aid of his mysterious emblem -- for there be no other apparent cause -- he become a man of awful power over soul that be in agony for sin .
His convert always regard him with a dread peculiar to themselves , affirm , though but figuratively , that before he bring them to celestial light they have be with him behind the black veil .
Its gloom , indeed , enable him to sympathize with all dark affection .
Dying sinner cry aloud for Mr. Hooper and would not yield their breath till he appear , though ever , a he stoop to whisper consolation , they shudder at the veiled face so near their own .
Such be the terror of the black veil even when Death have bar his visage .
Strangers come long distance to attend service at his church with the mere idle purpose of gaze at his figure because it be forbid them to behold his face .
But many be make to quake ere they depart .
Once , during Governor Belcher 's administration , Mr. Hooper be appoint to preach the election sermon .
Covered with his black veil , he stand before the chief magistrate , the council and the representative , and work so deep an impression that the legislative measure of that year be characterize by all the gloom and piety of our early ancestral sway .
In this manner Mr. Hooper spend a long life , irreproachable in outward act , yet shroud in dismal suspicion ; kind and loving , though unloved and dimly fear ; a man apart from men , shun in their health and joy , but ever summon to their aid in mortal anguish .
As year wore on , shed their snow above his sable veil , he acquire a name throughout the New England church , and they call him Father Hooper .
Nearly all his parishioner who be of mature age when he be settle have be bear away by many a funeral : he have one congregation in the church and a more crowded one in the churchyard ; and , have work so late into the evening and do his work so well , it be now good Father Hooper 's turn to rest .
Several person be visible by the shaded candlelight in the death-chamber of the old clergyman .
Natural connection he have none .
But there be the decorously grave though unmoved physician , seek only to mitigate the last pang of the patient whom he could not save .
There be the deacon and other eminently pious member of his church .
There , also , be the Reverend Mr. Clark of Westbury , a young and zealous divine who have ride in haste to pray by the bedside of the expiring minister .
There be the nurse -- no hired handmaiden of Death , but one whose calm affection have endure thus long in secrecy , in solitude , amid the chill of age , and would not perish even at the dying-hour .
Who but Elizabeth !
And there lay the hoary head of good Father Hooper upon the death-pillow with the black veil still swathe about his brow and reach down over his face , so that each more difficult gasp of his faint breath cause it to stir .
All through life that piece of crape have hang between him and the world ; it have separate him from cheerful brotherhood and woman 's love and keep him in that sad of all prison his own heart ; and still it lay upon his face , a if to deepen the gloom of his darksome chamber and shade him from the sunshine of eternity .
For some time previous his mind have be confuse , waver doubtfully between the past and the present , and hover forward , a it be , at interval , into the indistinctness of the world to come .
There have be feverish turn which toss him from side to side and wear away what little strength he have .
But in his most convulsive struggle and in the wild vagary of his intellect , when no other thought retain it sober influence , he still show an awful solicitude l the black veil should slip aside .
Even if his bewildered soul could have forget , there be a faithful woman at his pillow who with averted eye would have cover that age face which she have last beheld in the comeliness of manhood .
At length the death-stricken old man lay quietly in the torpor of mental and bodily exhaustion , with an imperceptible pulse and breath that grow fainter and fainter except when a long , deep and irregular inspiration seem to prelude the flight of his spirit .
The minister of Westbury approach the bedside .
`` Venerable Father Hooper , '' say he , `` the moment of your release be at hand .
Are you ready for the lifting of the veil that shut in time from eternity ? ''
Father Hooper at first reply merely by a feeble motion of his head ; then -- apprehensive , perhaps , that his meaning might be doubtful -- he exert himself to speak .
`` Yea , '' say he , in faint accent ; `` my soul hath a patient weariness until that veil be lift . ''
`` And be it fit , '' resume the Reverend Mr. Clark , `` that a man so give to prayer , of such a blameless example , holy in deed and thought , so far a mortal judgment may pronounce , -- be it fit that a father in the Church should leave a shadow on his memory that may seem to blacken a life so pure ?
I pray you , my venerable brother , let not this thing be !
Suffer u to be gladden by your triumphant aspect a you go to your reward .
Before the veil of eternity be lift let me cast aside this black veil from your face ; '' and , thus speaking , the Reverend Mr. Clark bend forward to reveal the mystery of so many year .
But , exert a sudden energy that make all the beholder stand aghast , Father Hooper snatch both his hand from beneath the bedclothes and press them strongly on the black veil , resolute to struggle if the minister of Westbury would contend with a die man .
`` Never ! ''
cry the veiled clergyman .
`` On earth , never ! ''
`` Dark old man , '' exclaim the affrighted minister , `` with what horrible crime upon your soul be you now pass to the judgment ? ''
Father Hooper 's breath heave : it rattle in his throat ; but , with a mighty effort grasp forward with his hand , he catch hold of life and hold it back till he should speak .
He even raise himself in bed , and there he sit shiver with the arm of Death around him , while the black veil hang down , awful at that last moment in the gathered terror of a lifetime .
And yet the faint , sad smile so often there now seem to glimmer from it obscurity and linger on Father Hooper 's lip .
`` Why do you tremble at me alone ? ''
cry he , turn his veiled face round the circle of pale spectator .
`` Tremble also at each other .
Have men avoid me and woman show no pity and child scream and flee only for my black veil ?
What but the mystery which it obscurely typify have make this piece of crape so awful ?
When the friend show his inmost heart to his friend , the lover to his best-beloved ; when man do not vainly shrink from the eye of his Creator , loathsomely treasure up the secret of his sin , -- then deem me a monster for the symbol beneath which I have live and die .
I look around me , and , lo !
on every visage a black veil ! ''
While his auditor shrink from one another in mutual affright , Father Hooper fell back upon his pillow , a veiled corpse with a faint smile linger on the lip .
Still veil , they lay him in his coffin , and a veil corpse they bore him to the grave .
The grass of many year have spring up and wither on that grave , the burial-stone be moss-grown , and good Mr. Hooper 's face be dust ; but awful be still the thought that it moulder beneath the black veil .
THE MAYPOLE OF MERRY MOUNT .
There be an admirable foundation for a philosophic romance in the curious history of the early settlement of Mount Wollaston , or Merry Mount .
In the slight sketch here attempt the fact record on the grave page of our New England annalist have work themselves almost spontaneously into a sort of allegory .
The masque , mummery and festive custom describe in the text be in accordance with the manner of the age .
Authority on these point may be find in Strutt 's Book of English Sports and Pastimes .
Bright be the day at Merry Mount when the Maypole be the banner-staff of that gay colony .
They who rear it , should their banner be triumphant , be to pour sunshine over New England 's rugged hill and scatter flower-seeds throughout the soil .
Jollity and gloom be contend for an empire .
Midsummer eve have come , bring deep verdure to the forest , and rose in her lap of a more vivid hue than the tender bud of spring .
But May , or her mirthful spirit , dwell all the year round at Merry Mount , sport with the summer month and revel with autumn and basking in the glow of winter 's fireside .
Through a world of toil and care she flit with a dream-like smile , and come hither to find a home among the lightsome heart of Merry Mount .
Never have the Maypole be so gayly deck a at sunset on Midsummer eve .
This venerate emblem be a pine tree which have preserve the slender grace of youth , while it equal the lofty height of the old wood-monarchs .
From it top stream a silken banner color like the rainbow .
Down nearly to the ground the pole be dress with birchen bough , and others of the lively green , and some with silvery leaf fasten by ribbon that flutter in fantastic knot of twenty different color , but no sad one .
Garden-flowers and blossom of the wilderness laugh gladly forth amid the verdure , so fresh and dewy that they must have grow by magic on that happy pine tree .
Where this green and flowery splendor terminate the shaft of the Maypole be stain with the seven brilliant hue of the banner at it top .
On the low green bough hang an abundant wreath of rose -- some that have be gather in the sunny spot of the forest , and others , of still rich blush , which the colonist have rear from English seed .
O people of the Golden Age , the chief of your husbandry be to raise flower !
But what be the wild throng that stand hand in hand about the Maypole ?
It could not be that the faun and nymph , when drive from their classic grove and home of ancient fable , have seek refuge , a all the persecute do , in the fresh wood of the West .
These be Gothic monster , though perhaps of Grecian ancestry .
On the shoulder of a comely youth uprise the head and branch antler of a stag ; a second , human in all other point , have the grim visage of a wolf ; a third , still with the trunk and limb of a mortal man , show the beard and horn of a venerable he-goat .
There be the likeness of a bear erect , brute in all but his hind leg , which be adorn with pink silk stocking .
And here , again , almost a wondrous , stand a real bear of the dark forest , lend each of his forepaw to the grasp of a human hand and a ready for the dance a any in that circle .
His inferior nature rise halfway to meet his companion a they stoop .
Other face wore the similitude of man or woman , but distort or extravagant , with red nose pendulous before their mouth , which seem of awful depth and stretch from ear to ear in an eternal fit of laughter .
Here might be see the salvage man -- well know in heraldry -- hairy a a baboon and girdle with green leaf .
By his side -- a noble figure , but still a counterfeit -- appear an Indian hunter with feathery crest and wampum-belt .
Many of this strange company wear foolscap and have little bell append to their garment , tinkle with a silvery sound responsive to the inaudible music of their gleesome spirit .
Some youth and maiden be of soberer garb , yet well maintain their place in the irregular throng by the expression of wild revelry upon their feature .
Such be the colonist of Merry Mount a they stand in the broad smile of sunset round their venerated Maypole .
Had a wanderer bewilder in the melancholy forest heard their mirth and steal a half-affrighted glance , he might have fancy them the crew of Comus , some already transform to brute , some midway between man and beast , and the others riot in the flow of tipsy jollity that foreran the change ; but a band of Puritans who watch the scene , invisible themselves , compare the masque to those devil and ruin soul with whom their superstition people the black wilderness .
Within the ring of monster appear the two airy form that have ever tread on any more solid footing than a purple-and-golden cloud .
One be a youth in glisten apparel with a scarf of the rainbow pattern crosswise on his breast .
His right hand hold a gilded staff -- the ensign of high dignity among the reveller -- and his left grasp the slender finger of a fair maiden not less gayly decorate than himself .
Bright rose glow in contrast with the dark and glossy curl of each , and be scatter round their foot or have spring up spontaneously there .
Behind this lightsome couple , so close to the Maypole that it bough shade his jovial face , stand the figure of an English priest , canonically dress , yet deck with flower , in heathen fashion , and wear a chaplet of the native vine leaf .
By the riot of his roll eye and the pagan decoration of his holy garb , he seem the wild monster there , and the very Comus of the crew .
`` Votaries of the Maypole , '' cry the flower-decked priest , `` merrily all day long have the wood echo to your mirth .
But be this your merry hour , my heart !
Lo !
here stand the Lord and Lady of the May , whom I , a clerk of Oxford and high priest of Merry Mount , be presently to join in holy matrimony .
-- Up with your nimble spirit , ye morrice-dancers , green men and glee-maidens , bear and wolf and horn gentleman !
Come !
a chorus now rich with the old mirth of Merry England and the wilder glee of this fresh forest , and then a dance , to show the youthful pair what life be make of and how airily they should go through it !
-- All ye that love the Maypole , lend your voice to the nuptial song of the Lord and Lady of the May ! ''
This wedlock be more serious than most affair of Merry Mount , where jest and delusion , trick and fantasy , keep up a continual carnival .
The Lord and Lady of the May , though their title must be lay down at sunset , be really and truly to be partner for the dance of life , begin the measure that same bright eve .
The wreath of rose that hang from the low green bough of the Maypole have be twin for them , and would be throw over both their head in symbol of their flowery union .
When the priest have speak , therefore , a riotous uproar burst from the rout of monstrous figure .
`` Begin you the stave , reverend sir , '' cry they all , `` and never do the wood ring to such a merry peal a we of the Maypole shall send up . ''
Immediately a prelude of pipe , cittern and viol , touch with practised minstrelsy , begin to play from a neighbor thicket in such a mirthful cadence that the bough of the Maypole quiver to the sound .
But the May-lord -- he of the gilded staff -- chance to look into his lady 's eye , be wonder-struck at the almost pensive glance that meet his own .
`` Edith , sweet Lady of the May , '' whisper he , reproachfully , `` be yon wreath of rose a garland to hang above our graf that you look so sad ?
Oh , Edith , this be our golden time .
Tarnish it not by any pensive shadow of the mind , for it may be that nothing of futurity will be bright than the mere remembrance of what be now pass . ''
`` That be the very thought that sadden me .
How come it in your mind too ? ''
say Edith , in a still low tone than he ; for it be high treason to be sad at Merry Mount .
`` Therefore do I sigh amid this festive music .
And besides , dear Edgar , I struggle a with a dream , and fancy that these shape of our jovial friend be visionary and their mirth unreal , and that we be no true lord and lady of the May .
What be the mystery in my heart ? ''
Just then , a if a spell have loosen them , down come a little shower of wither rose-leaves from the Maypole .
Alas for the young lover !
No sooner have their heart glow with real passion than they be sensible of something vague and unsubstantial in their former pleasure , and felt a dreary presentiment of inevitable change .
From the moment that they truly love they have subject themselves to earth 's doom of care and sorrow and troubled joy , and have no more a home at Merry Mount .
That be Edith 's mystery .
Now leave we the priest to marry them , and the masquer to sport round the Maypole till the last sunbeam be withdraw from it summit and the shadow of the forest mingle gloomily in the dance .
Meanwhile , we may discover who these gay people be .
Two hundred year ago , and more , the Old World and it inhabitant become mutually weary of each other .
Men voyage by thousand to the West -- some to barter glass and such like jewel for the fur of the Indian hunter , some to conquer virgin empire , and one stern band to pray .
But none of these motif have much weight with the strive to communicate their mirth to the grave Indian , or masquerade in the skin of deer and wolf which they have hunt for that especial purpose .
Often the whole colony be play at Blindman 's Buff , magistrate and all with their eye bandage , except a single scapegoat , whom the blinded sinner pursue by the tinkling of the bell at his garment .
Once , it be say , they be see follow a flower-decked corpse with merriment and festive music to his grave .
But do the dead man laugh ?
In their quiet time they sing ballad and tell tale for the edification of their pious visitor , or perplex them with juggle trick , or grin at them through horse-collars ; and when sport itself grow wearisome , they make game of their own stupidity and begin a yawning-match .
At the very least of these enormity the men of iron shake their head and frown so darkly that the reveller look up , imagine that a momentary cloud have overcast the sunshine which be to be perpetual there .
On the other hand , the Puritans affirm that when a psalm be peal from their place of worship the echo which the forest send them back seem often like the chorus of a jolly catch , close with a roar of laughter .
Who but the fiend and his bond-slaves the crew of Merry Mount have thus disturb them ?
In due time a feud arose , stern and bitter on one side , and as serious on the other a anything could be among such light spirit a have swear allegiance to the Maypole .
The future complexion of New England be involve in this important quarrel .
Should the grisly saint establish their jurisdiction over the gay sinner , then would their spirit darken all the clime and make it a land of clouded visage , of hard toil , of sermon and psalm for ever ; but should the banner-staff of Merry Mount be fortunate , sunshine would break upon the hill , and flower would beautify the forest and late posterity do homage to the Maypole .
After these authentic passage from history we return to the nuptials of the Lord and Lady of the May .
Alas !
we have delay too long , and must darken our tale too suddenly .
As we glance again at the Maypole a solitary sunbeam be fade from the summit , and leave only a faint golden tinge blend with the hue of the rainbow banner .
Even that dim light be now withdraw , relinquish the whole domain of Merry Mount to the evening gloom which have rush so instantaneously from the black surrounding wood .
But some of these black shadow have rush forth in human shape .
Yes , with the set sun the last day of mirth have pass from Merry Mount .
The ring of gay masquer be disorder and break ; the stag lower his antler in dismay ; the wolf grow weak than a lamb ; the bell of the morrice-dancers tinkle with tremulous affright .
The Puritans have play a characteristic part in the Maypole mummery .
Their darksome figure be intermix with the wild shape of their foe , and make the scene a picture of the moment when wake thought start up amid the scattered fantasy of a dream .
The leader of the hostile party stand in the centre of the circle , while the rout of monster cower around him like evil spirit in the presence of a dread magician .
No fantastic foolery could look him in the face .
So stern be the energy of his aspect that the whole man , visage , frame and soul , seem wrought of iron gift with life and thought , yet all of one substance with his headpiece and breastplate .
It be the Puritan of Puritans : it be Endicott himself .
`` Stand off , priest of Baal ! ''
say he , with a grim frown and lay no reverent hand upon the surplice .
`` I know thee , Blackstone !
-LSB- 1 -RSB- Thou art the man who couldst not abide the rule even of thine own corrupt Church , and hast come hither to preach iniquity and to give example of it in thy life .
But now shall it be see that the Lord hath sanctify this wilderness for his peculiar people .
Woe unto them that would defile it !
And first for this flower-decked abomination , the altar of thy worship ! ''
-LSB- Footnote 1 : Did Governor Endicott speak less positively , we should suspect a mistake here .
The Rev . Mr. Blackstone , though an eccentric , be not know to have be an immoral man .
We rather doubt his identity with the priest of Merry Mount . -RSB-
And with his keen sword Endicott assault the hallowed Maypole .
Nor long do it resist his arm .
It groan with a dismal sound , it shower leaf and rosebuds upon the remorseless enthusiast , and finally , with all it green bough and ribbon and flower , symbolic of departed pleasure , down fell the banner-staff of Merry Mount .
As it sink , tradition say , the evening sky grow darker and the wood throw forth a more sombre shadow .
`` There ! ''
cry Endicott , look triumphantly on his work ; `` there lie the only Maypole in New England .
The thought be strong within me that by it fall be shadow forth the fate of light and idle mirthmakers amongst u and our posterity .
Amen , saith John Endicott ! ''
`` Amen ! ''
echo his follower .
But the votary of the Maypole give one groan for their idol .
At the sound the Puritan leader glance at the crew of Comus , each a figure of broad mirth , yet at this moment strangely expressive of sorrow and dismay .
`` Valiant captain , '' quoth Peter Palfrey , the ancient of the band , `` what order shall be take with the prisoner ? ''
`` I think not to repent me of cut down a Maypole , '' reply Endicott , `` yet now I could find in my heart to plant it again and give each of these bestial pagan one other dance round their idol .
It would have serve rarely for a whipping-post . ''
`` But there be pine tree enow , '' suggest the lieutenant .
`` True , good ancient , '' say the leader .
`` Wherefore bind the heathen crew and bestow on them a small matter of stripe apiece a earnest of our future justice .
Set some of the rogue in the stock to rest themselves so soon a Providence shall bring u to one of our own well-ordered settlement where such accommodation may be find .
Further penalty , such a branding and cropping of ear , shall be think of hereafter . ''
`` How many stripe for the priest ? ''
inquired Ancient Palfrey .
`` None a yet , '' answer Endicott , bend his iron frown upon the culprit .
`` It must be for the Great and General Court to determine whether stripe and long imprisonment , and other grievous penalty , may atone for his transgression .
Let him look to himself .
For such a violate our civil order it may be permit u to show mercy , but woe to the wretch that troubleth our religion ! ''
`` And this dance bear ? ''
resume the officer .
`` Must he share the stripe of his fellow ? ''
`` Shoot him through the head ! ''
say the energetic Puritan .
`` I suspect witchcraft in the beast . ''
`` Here be a couple of shin one , '' continue Peter Palfrey , point his weapon at the Lord and Lady of the May .
`` They seem to be of high station among these misdoers .
Methinks their dignity will not be fit with less than a double share of stripe . ''
Endicott rest on his sword and closely survey the dress and aspect of the hapless pair .
There they stand , pale , downcast and apprehensive , yet there be an air of mutual support and of pure affection seek aid and give it that show them to be man and wife with the sanction of a priest upon their love .
The youth in the peril of the moment , have drop his gilded staff and throw his arm about the Lady of the May , who lean against his breast too lightly to burden him , but with weight enough to express that their destiny be link together for good or evil .
They look first at each other and then into the grim captain 's face .
There they stand in the first hour of wedlock , while the idle pleasure of which their companion be the emblem have give place to the stern care of life , personify by the dark Puritans .
But never have their youthful beauty seem so pure and high a when it glow be chasten by adversity .
`` Youth , '' say Endicott , `` ye stand in an evil case -- thou and thy maiden-wife .
Make ready presently , for I be mind that ye shall both have a token to remember your wedding-day . ''
`` Stern man , '' cry the May-lord , `` how can I move thee ?
Were the mean at hand , I would resist to the death ; be powerless , I entreat .
Do with me a thou wilt , but let Edith go untouched . ''
`` Not so , '' reply the immitigable zealot .
`` We be not wont to show an idle courtesy to that sex which requireth the stricter discipline .
-- What sayest thou , maid ?
Shall thy silken bridegroom suffer thy share of the penalty besides his own ? ''
`` Be it death , '' say Edith , `` and lay it all on me . ''
Truly , a Endicott have say , the poor lover stand in a woeful case .
Their foe be triumphant , their friend captive and abase , their home desolate , the benighted wilderness around them , and a rigorous destiny in the shape of the Puritan leader their only guide .
Yet the deepening twilight could not altogether conceal that the iron man be soften .
He smile at the fair spectacle of early love ; he almost sigh for the inevitable blight of early hope .
`` The trouble of life have come hastily on this young couple , '' observe Endicott .
`` We will see how they comport themselves under their present trial ere we burden them with great .
If among the spoil there be any garment of a more decent fashion , let them be put upon this May-lord and his Lady instead of their glistening vanity .
Look to it , some of you . ''
`` And shall not the youth 's hair be cut ? ''
ask Peter Palfrey , look with abhorrence at the lovelock and long glossy curl of the young man .
`` Crop it forthwith , and that in the true pumpkin-shell fashion , '' answer the captain .
`` Then bring them along with u , but more gently than their fellow .
There be quality in the youth which may make him valiant to fight and sober to toil and pious to pray , and in the maiden that may fit her to become a mother in our Israel , bring up babe in good nurture than her own hath be .
-- Nor think ye , young one , that they be the happy , even in our lifetime of a moment , who misspend it in dance round a Maypole . ''
And Endicott , the severe Puritan of all who lay the rock-foundation of New England , lift the wreath of rose from the ruin of the Maypole and throw it with his own gauntleted hand over the head of the Lord and Lady of the May .
It be a deed of prophecy .
As the moral gloom of the world overpower all systematic gayety , even so be their home of wild mirth make desolate amid the sad forest .
They return to it no more .
But a their flowery garland be wreathe of the bright rose that have grow there , so in the tie that unite them be intertwine all the pure and best of their early joy .
They go heavenward support each other along the difficult path which it be their lot to tread , and never waste one regretful thought on the vanity of Merry Mount .
THE GENTLE BOY .
In the course of the year 1656 several of the people call Quakers -- lead , a they profess , by the inward movement of the spirit -- make their appearance in New England .
Their reputation a holder of mystic and pernicious principle have spread before them , the Puritans early endeavor to banish and to prevent the further intrusion of the rise sect .
But the measure by which it be intend to purge the land of heresy , though more than sufficiently vigorous , be entirely unsuccessful .
The Quakers , esteem persecution a a divine call to the post of danger , lay claim to a holy courage unknown to the Puritans themselves , who have shun the cross by provide for the peaceable exercise of their religion in a distant wilderness .
Though it be the singular fact that every nation of the earth reject the wandering enthusiast who practise peace toward all men , the place of great uneasiness and peril , and therefore in their eye the most eligible , be the province of Massachusetts Bay .
The fine , imprisonment and stripe liberally distribute by our pious forefather , the popular antipathy , so strong that it endure nearly a hundred year after actual persecution have cease , be attraction a powerful for the Quakers a peace , honor and reward would have be for the worldly-minded .
Every European vessel bring new cargo of the sect , eager to testify against the oppression which they hop to share ; and when shipmasters be restrain by heavy fine from afford them passage , they make long and circuitous journey through the Indian country , and appear in the province a if convey by a supernatural power .
Their enthusiasm , heighten almost to madness by the treatment which they receive , produce action contrary to the rule of decency as well a of rational religion , and present a singular contrast to the calm and staid deportment of their sectarian successor of the present day .
The command of the Spirit , inaudible except to the soul and not to be controvert on ground of human wisdom , be make a plea for most indecorous exhibition which , abstractedly consider , well deserve the moderate chastisement of the rod .
These extravagance , and the persecution which be at once their cause and consequence , continue to increase , till in the year 1659 the government of Massachusetts Bay indulge two member of the Quaker sect with the crown of martyrdom .
An indelible stain of blood be upon the hand of all who consent to this act , but a large share of the awful responsibility must rest upon the person then at the head of the government .
He be a man of narrow mind and imperfect education , and his uncompromising bigotry be make hot and mischievous by violent and hasty passion ; he exert his influence indecorously and unjustifiably to compass the death of the enthusiast , and his whole conduct in respect to them be mark by brutal cruelty .
The Quakers , whose revengeful feeling be not less deep because they be inactive , remember this man and his associate in after-times .
The historian of the sect affirm that by the wrath of Heaven a blight fell upon the land in the vicinity of the `` bloody town '' of Boston , so that no wheat would grow there ; and he take his stand , a it be , among the graf of the ancient persecutor , and triumphantly recount the judgment that overtake them in old age or at the parting-hour .
He tell u that they die suddenly and violently and in madness , but nothing can exceed the bitter mockery with which he record the loathsome disease and `` death by rottenness '' of the fierce and cruel governor .
* * * * * On the evening of the autumn day that have witness the martyrdom of two men of the Quaker persuasion , a Puritan settler be return from the metropolis to the neighboring country-town in which he reside .
The air be cool , the sky clear , and the linger twilight be make brighter by the ray of a young moon which have now nearly reach the verge of the horizon .
The traveller , a man of middle age , wrap in a gray frieze cloak , quicken his pace when he have reach the outskirt of the town , for a gloomy extent of nearly four mile lay between him and his home .
The low straw-thatched house be scatter at considerable interval along the road , and , the country have be settle but about thirty year , the tract of original forest still bore no small proportion to the cultivate ground .
The autumn wind wander among the branch , whirl away the leaf from all except the pine tree and moaning a if it lament the desolation of which it be the instrument .
The road have penetrate the mass of wood that lay near to the town , and be just emerge into an open space , when the traveller 's ear be salute by a sound more mournful than even that of the wind .
It be like the wailing of some one in distress , and it seem to proceed from beneath a tall and lonely fir tree in the centre of a cleared but unenclosed and uncultivated field .
The Puritan could not but remember that this be the very spot which have be make accurse a few hour before by the execution of the Quakers , whose body have be throw together into one hasty grave beneath the tree on which they suffer .
He struggle , however , against the superstitious fear which belong to the age , and compel himself to pause and listen .
`` The voice be most likely mortal , nor have I cause to tremble if it be otherwise , '' think he , strain his eye through the dim moonlight .
`` Methinks it be like the wailing of a child -- some infant , it may be , which have stray from it mother and chance upon this place of death .
For the ease of mine own conscience I must search this matter out . ''
He therefore leave the path and walk somewhat fearfully across the field .
Though now so desolate , it soil be press down and trample by the thousand footstep of those who have witness the spectacle of that day , all of whom have now retire , leave the dead to their loneliness .
The traveller at length reach the fir tree , which from the middle upward be cover with living branch , although a scaffold have be erect beneath , and other preparation make for the work of death .
Under this unhappy tree -- which in after-times be believe to drop poison with it dew -- sit the one solitary mourner for innocent blood .
It be a slender and light-clad little boy who lean his face upon a hillock of fresh-turned and half-frozen earth and wail bitterly , yet in a suppressed tone , a if his grief might receive the punishment of crime .
The Puritan , whose approach have be unperceived , lay his hand upon the child 's shoulder and address him compassionately .
`` You have choose a dreary lodging , my poor boy , and no wonder that you weep , '' say he .
`` But dry your eye and tell me where your mother dwells ; I promise you , if the journey be not too far , I will leave you in her arm tonight . ''
The boy have hush his wailing at once , and turn his face upward to the stranger .
It be a pale , bright-eyed countenance , certainly not more than six year old , but sorrow , fear and want have destroy much of it infantile expression .
The Puritan , see the boy 's frighten gaze and feeling that he tremble under his hand , endeavor to reassure him : `` Nay , if I intend to do you harm , little lad , the ready way be to leave you here .
What !
you do not fear to sit beneath the gallows on a new-made grave , and yet you tremble at a friend 's touch ?
Take heart , child , and tell me what be your name and where be your home . ''
`` Friend , '' reply the little boy , in a sweet though faltering voice , `` they call me Ilbrahim , and my home be here . ''
The pale , spiritual face , the eye that seem to mingle with the moonlight , the sweet , airy voice and the outlandish name almost make the Puritan believe that the boy be in truth a be which have spring up out of the grave on which he sit ; but perceive that the apparition stand the test of a short mental prayer , and remember that the arm which he have touch be lifelike , he adopt a more rational supposition .
`` The poor child be stricken in his intellect , '' think he , `` but verily his word be fearful in a place like this . ''
He then speak soothingly , intend to humor the boy 's fantasy : `` Your home will scarce be comfortable , Ilbrahim , this cold autumn night , and I fear you be ill-provided with food .
I be hasten to a warm supper and bed ; and if you will go with me , you shall share them . ''
`` I thank thee , friend , but , though I be hungry and shiver with cold , thou wilt not give me food nor lodging , '' reply the boy , in the quiet tone which despair have teach him even so young .
`` My father be of the people whom all men hate ; they have lay him under this heap of earth , and here be my home . ''
The Puritan , who have lay hold of little Ilbrahim 's hand , relinquish it a if he be touch a loathsome reptile .
But he possess a compassionate heart which not even religious prejudice could harden into stone .
`` God forbid that I should leave this child to perish , though he come of the accursed sect , '' say he to himself .
`` Do we not all spring from an evil root ?
Are we not all in darkness till the light doth shine upon u ?
He shall not perish , neither in body nor , if prayer and instruction may avail for him , in soul . ''
He then speak aloud and kindly to Ilbrahim , who have again hide his face in the cold earth of the grave : `` Was every door in the land shut against you , my child , that you have wander to this unhallowed spot ? ''
`` They drive me forth from the prison when they take my father thence , '' say the boy , `` and I stand afar off watch the crowd of people ; and when they be go , I come hither , and find only this grave .
I know that my father be sleep here , and I say , ` This shall be my home . ' ''
`` No , child , no , not while I have a roof over my head or a morsel to share with you , '' exclaim the Puritan , whose sympathy be now fully excite .
`` Rise up and come with me , and fear not any harm . ''
The boy wept afresh , and clung to the heap of earth a if the cold heart beneath it be warmer to him than any in a living breast .
The traveller , however , continue to entreat him tenderly , and , seem to acquire some degree of confidence , he at length arise ; but his slender limb totter with weakness , his little head grow dizzy , and he lean against the tree of death for support .
`` My poor boy , be you so feeble ? ''
say the Puritan .
`` When do you taste food last ? ''
`` I eat of bread and water with my father in the prison , '' reply Ilbrahim , `` but they bring him none neither yesterday nor to-day , say that he have eat enough to bear him to his journey 's end .
Trouble not thyself for my hunger , kind friend , for I have lack food many time ere now . ''
The traveller take the child in his arm and wrap his cloak about him , while his heart stir with shame and anger against the gratuitous cruelty of the instrument in this persecution .
In the awakened warmth of his feeling he resolve that at whatever risk he would not forsake the poor little defenceless be whom Heaven have confide to his care .
With this determination he leave the accursed field and resume the homeward path from which the wailing of the boy have call him .
The light and motionless burden scarcely impede his progress , and he soon behold the fire-rays from the window of the cottage which he , a native of a distant clime , have build in the Western wilderness .
It be surround by a considerable extent of cultivate ground , and the dwelling be situate in the nook of a wood-covered hill , whither it seem to have creep for protection .
`` Look up , child , '' say the Puritan to Ilbrahim , whose faint head have sink upon his shoulder ; `` there be our home . ''
At the word `` home '' a thrill pass through the child 's frame , but he continue silent .
A few moment bring them to the cottage door , at which the owner knock ; for at that early period , when savage be wander everywhere among the settler , bolt and bar be indispensable to the security of a dwelling .
The summons be answer by a bond-servant , a coarse-clad and dull-featured piece of humanity , who , after ascertain that his master be the applicant , undo the door and hold a flaring pine-knot torch to light him in .
Farther back in the passageway the red blaze discover a matronly woman , but no little crowd of child come bound forth to greet their father 's return .
As the Puritan enter he thrust aside his cloak and display Ilbrahim 's face to the female .
`` Dorothy , here be a little outcast whom Providence hath put into our hand , '' observe he .
`` Be kind to him , even a if he be of those dear one who have depart from u . ''
`` What pale and bright-eyed little boy be this , Tobias ? ''
she inquire .
`` Is he one whom the wilderness-folk have ravish from some Christian mother ? ''
`` No , Dorothy ; this poor child be no captive from the wilderness , '' he reply .
`` The heathen savage would have give him to eat of his scanty morsel and to drink of his birchen cup , but Christian men , ala !
have cast him out to die . ''
Then he tell her how he have find him beneath the gallows , upon his father 's grave , and how his heart have prompt him like the speaking of an inward voice to take the little outcast home and be kind unto him .
He acknowledge his resolution to fee and clothe him a if he be his own child , and to afford him the instruction which should counteract the pernicious error hitherto instill into his infant mind .
Dorothy be gift with even a quicker tenderness than her husband , and she approve of all his doings and intention .
`` Have you a mother , dear child ? ''
she inquire .
The tear burst forth from his full heart a he attempt to reply , but Dorothy at length understood that he have a mother , who like the rest of her sect be a persecuted wanderer .
She have be take from the prison a short time before , carry into the uninhabited wilderness and leave to perish there by hunger or wild beast .
This be no uncommon method of dispose of the Quakers , and they be accustom to boast that the inhabitant of the desert be more hospitable to them than civilize man .
`` Fear not , little boy ; you shall not need a mother , and a kind one , '' say Dorothy , when she have gather this information .
`` Dry your tear , Ilbrahim , and be my child , a I will be your mother . ''
The good woman prepare the little bed from which her own child have successively be bear to another resting-place .
Before Ilbrahim would consent to occupy it he kneel down , and a Dorothy list to his simple and affect prayer she marvel how the parent that have teach it to him could have be judge worthy of death .
When the boy have fall asleep , she bend over his pale and spiritual countenance , press a kiss upon his white brow , draw the bedclothes up about his neck , and go away with a pensive gladness in her heart .
Tobias Pearson be not among the early emigrant from the old country .
He have remain in England during the first year of the Civil War , in which he have bear some share a a cornet of dragoon under Cromwell .
But when the ambitious design of his leader begin to develop themselves , he quit the army of the Parliament and seek a refuge from the strife which be no long holy among the people of his persuasion in the colony of Massachusetts .
A more worldly consideration have perhaps an influence in draw him thither , for New England offer advantage to men of unprosperous fortune as well a to dissatisfied religionist , and Pearson have hitherto find it difficult to provide for a wife and increase family .
To this suppose impurity of motive the more bigoted Puritans be incline to impute the removal by death of all the child for whose earthly good the father have be over-thoughtful .
They have leave their native country bloom like rose , and like rose they have perish in a foreign soil .
Those expounder of the way of Providence , who have thus judge their brother and attribute his domestic sorrow to his sin , be not more charitable when they saw him and Dorothy endeavor to fill up the void in their heart by the adoption of an infant of the accursed sect .
Nor do they fail to communicate their disapprobation to Tobias , but the latter in reply merely point at the little quiet , lovely boy , whose appearance and deportment be indeed a powerful argument a could possibly have be adduce in his own favor .
Even his beauty , however , and his win manner sometimes produce an effect ultimately unfavorable ; for the bigot , when the outer surface of their iron heart have be soften and again grow hard , affirm that no merely natural cause could have so work upon them .
Their antipathy to the poor infant be also increase by the ill-success of diver theological discussion in which it be attempt to convince him of the error of his sect .
Ilbrahim , it be true , be not a skilful controversialist , but the feeling of his religion be strong a instinct in him , and he could neither be entice nor drive from the faith which his father have die for .
The odium of this stubbornness be share in a great measure by the child 's protector , insomuch that Tobias and Dorothy very shortly begin to experience a most bitter specie of persecution in the cold regard of many a friend whom they have value .
The common people manifest their opinion more openly .
Pearson be a man of some consideration , be a representative to the General Court and an approved lieutenant in the train-bands , yet within a week after his adoption of Ilbrahim he have be both hiss and hoot .
Once , also , when walk through a solitary piece of wood , he hear a loud voice from some invisible speaker , and it cry , `` What shall be do to the backslider ?
Lo !
the scourge be knot for him , even the whip of nine cord , and every cord three knot . ''
These insult irritate Pearson 's temper for the moment ; they enter also into his heart , and become imperceptible but powerful worker toward an end which his most secret thought have not yet whisper .
* * * * * On the second Sabbath after Ilbrahim become a member of their family , Pearson and his wife deem it proper that he should appear with them at public worship .
They have anticipate some opposition to this measure from the boy , but he prepare himself in silence , and at the appointed hour be clothe in the new mourning-suit which Dorothy have work for him .
As the parish be then , and during many subsequent year , unprovided with a bell , the signal for the commencement of religious exercise be the beat of a drum .
At the first sound of that martial call to the place of holy and quiet thought Tobias and Dorothy set forth , each hold a hand of little Ilbrahim , like two parent link together by the infant of their love .
On their path through the leafless wood they be overtake by many person of their acquaintance , all of whom avoid them and pass by on the other side ; but a severe trial await their constancy when they have descend the hill and draw near the pine-built and undecorated house of prayer .
Around the door , from which the drummer still send forth his thunder summons , be draw up a formidable phalanx , include several of the old member of the congregation , many of the middle-aged and nearly all the young male .
Pearson find it difficult to sustain their united and disapprove gaze , but Dorothy , whose mind be differently circumstanced , merely draw the boy closer to her and falter not in her approach .
As they enter the door they overhear the muttered sentiment of the assemblage ; and when the revile voice of the little child smite Ilbrahim 's ear , he weep .
The interior aspect of the meeting-house be rude .
The low ceiling , the unplastered wall , the naked woodwork and the undraperied pulpit offer nothing to excite the devotion which without such external aid often remain latent in the heart .
The floor of the building be occupy by row of long cushionless bench , supply the place of pew , and the broad aisle form a sexual division impassable except by child beneath a certain age .
Pearson and Dorothy separate at the door of the meeting-house , and Ilbrahim , be within the year of infancy , be retain under the care of the latter .
The wrinkled beldam involve themselves in their rusty cloak a he pass by ; even the mild-featured maiden seem to dread contamination ; and many a stern old man arose and turn his repulsive and unheavenly countenance upon the gentle boy , a if the sanctuary be pollute by his presence .
He be a sweet infant of the sky that have stray away from his home , and all the inhabitant of this miserable world close up their impure heart against him , draw back their earth-soiled garment from his touch and say , `` We be holy than thou . ''
Ilbrahim , seat by the side of his adopt mother and retain fast hold of her hand , assume a grave and decorous demeanor such a might befit a person of matured taste and understanding who should find himself in a temple dedicate to some worship which he do not recognize , but felt himself bound to respect .
The exercise have not yet commence , however , when the boy 's attention be arrest by an event apparently of trifle interest .
A woman have her face muffle in a hood and a cloak drawn completely about her form advance slowly up the broad aisle and take place upon the foremost bench .
Ilbrahim 's faint color vary , his nerve flutter ; he be unable to turn his eye from the muffle female .
When the preliminary prayer and hymn be over , the minister arose , and , have turn the hour-glass which stood by the great Bible , commence his discourse .
He be now well stricken in year , a man of pale , thin countenance , and his gray hair be closely cover by a black velvet skull-cap .
In his younger day he have practically learn the meaning of persecution from Archbishop Laud , and he be not now dispose to forget the lesson against which he have murmur then .
Introducing the often-discussed subject of the Quakers , he give a history of that sect and a description of their tenet in which error predominate and prejudice distort the aspect of what be true .
He advert to the recent measure in the province , and caution his hearer of weak part against call in question the just severity which God-fearing magistrate have at length be compel to exercise .
He speak of the danger of pity -- in some case a commendable and Christian virtue , but inapplicable to this pernicious sect .
He observe that such be their devilish obstinacy in error that even the little child , the sucking babe , be harden and desperate heretic .
He affirm that no man without Heaven 's especial warrant should attempt their conversion l while he lend his hand to draw them from the slough he should himself be precipitate into it low depth .
The sand of the second hour be principally in the low half of the glass when the sermon conclude .
An approve murmur follow , and the clergyman , have give out a hymn , take his seat with much self-congratulation , and endeavor to read the effect of his eloquence in the visage of the people .
But while voice from all part of the house be tune themselves to sing a scene occur which , though not very unusual at that period in the province , happen to be without precedent in this parish .
The muffled female , who have hitherto sat motionless in the front rank of the audience , now arose and with slow , stately and unwavering step ascend the pulpit stair .
The quaverings of incipient harmony be hush and the divine sit in speechless and almost terrified astonishment while she undo the door and stand up in the sacred desk from which his malediction have just be thunder .
She then divest herself of the cloak and hood , and appear in a most singular array .
A shapeless robe of sackcloth be gird about her waist with a knotted cord ; her raven hair fell down upon her shoulder , and it blackness be defile by pale streak of ash , which she have strewn upon her head .
Her eyebrow , dark and strongly define , add to the deathly whiteness of a countenance which , emaciate with want and wild with enthusiasm and strange sorrow , retain no trace of early beauty .
This figure stand gaze earnestly on the audience , and there be no sound nor any movement except a faint shudder which every man observe in his neighbor , but be scarcely conscious of in himself .
At length , when her fit of inspiration come , she speak for the first few moment in a low voice and not invariably distinct utterance .
Her discourse give evidence of an imagination hopelessly entangle with her reason ; it be a vague and incomprehensible rhapsody , which , however , seem to spread it own atmosphere round the hearer 's soul , and to move his feeling by some influence unconnected with the word .
As she proceed beautiful but shadowy image would sometimes be see like bright thing move in a turbid river , or a strong and singularly shape idea leapt forth and seize at once on the understanding or the heart .
But the course of her unearthly eloquence soon lead her to the persecution of her sect , and from thence the step be short to her own peculiar sorrow .
She be naturally a woman of mighty passion , and hatred and revenge now wrap themselves in the garb of piety .
The character of her speech be change ; her image become distinct though wild , and her denunciation have an almost hellish bitterness .
`` The governor and his mighty men , '' she say , `` have gather together , take counsel among themselves and say , ` What shall we do unto this people -- even unto the people that have come into this land to put our iniquity to the blush ? '
And , lo !
the devil entereth into the council-chamber like a lame man of low stature and gravely apparelled , with a dark and twisted countenance and a bright , downcast eye .
And he standeth up among the ruler ; yea , he goeth to and fro , whisper to each ; and every man lend his ear , for his word be ` Slay !
Slay ! '
But I say unto ye , Woe to them that slay !
Woe to them that shed the blood of saint !
Woe to them that have slay the husband and cast forth the child , the tender infant , to wander homeless and hungry and cold till he die , and have save the mother alive in the cruelty of their tender mercy !
Woe to them in their lifetime !
Cursed be they in the delight and pleasure of their heart !
Woe to them in their death-hour , whether it come swiftly with blood and violence or after long and linger pain !
Woe in the dark house , in the rottenness of the grave , when the child 's child shall revile the ash of the father !
Woe , woe , woe , at the judgment , when all the persecute and all the slain in this bloody land , and the father , the mother and the child , shall await them in a day that they can not escape !
Seed of the faith , seed of the faith , ye whose heart be move with a power that ye know not , arise , wash your hand of this innocent blood !
Lift your voice , choose one , cry aloud , and call down a woe and a judgment with me ! ''
Having thus give vent to the flood of malignity which she mistake for inspiration , the speaker be silent .
Her voice be succeed by the hysteric shriek of several woman , but the feeling of the audience generally have not be draw onward in the current with her own .
They remain stupefied , strand , a it be , in the midst of a torrent which deafen them by it roaring , but might not move them by it violence .
The clergyman , who could not hitherto have eject the usurper of his pulpit otherwise than by bodily force , now address her in the tone of just indignation and legitimate authority .
`` Get you down , woman , from the holy place which you profane , '' he say , `` Is it to the Lord 's house that you come to pour forth the foulness of your heart and the inspiration of the devil ?
Get you down , and remember that the sentence of death be on you -- yea , and shall be execute , be it but for this day 's work . ''
`` I go , friend , I go , for the voice hath have it utterance , '' reply she , in a depressed , and even mild , tone .
`` I have do my mission unto thee and to thy people ; reward me with stripe , imprisonment or death , a ye shall be permit . ''
The weakness of exhausted passion cause her step to totter a she descend the pulpit stair .
The people , in the mean while , be stir to and fro on the floor of the house , whisper among themselves and glance toward the intruder .
Many of them now recognize her a the woman who have assault the governor with frightful language a he pass by the window of her prison ; they know , also , that she be adjudge to suffer death , and have be preserve only by an involuntary banishment into the wilderness .
The new outrage by which she have provoke her fate seem to render further lenity impossible , and a gentleman in military dress , with a stout man of inferior rank , draw toward the door of the meetinghouse and await her approach .
Scarcely do her foot press the floor , however , when an unexpected scene occur .
In that moment of her peril , when every eye frown with death , a little timid boy throw his arm round his mother .
`` I be here , mother ; it be I , and I will go with thee to prison , '' he exclaim .
She gaze at him with a doubtful and almost frightened expression , for she know that the boy have be cast out to perish , and she have not hop to see his face again .
She fear , perhaps , that it be but one of the happy vision with which her excited fancy have often deceive her in the solitude of the desert or in prison ; but when she felt his hand warm within her own and hear his little eloquence of childish love , she begin to know that she be yet a mother .
`` Blessed art thou , my son ! ''
she sob .
`` My heart be wither -- yea , dead with thee and with thy father -- and now it leap a in the first moment when I press thee to my bosom . ''
She kneel down and embrace him again and again , while the joy that could find no word express itself in broken accent , like the bubble gush up to vanish at the surface of a deep fountain .
The sorrow of past year and the darker peril that be nigh cast not a shadow on the brightness of that fleeting moment .
Soon , however , the spectator saw a change upon her face a the consciousness of her sad estate return , and grief supply the fount of tear which joy have open .
By the word she utter it would seem that the indulgence of natural love have give her mind a momentary sense of it error , and make her know how far she have stray from duty in follow the dictate of a wild fanaticism .
`` In a doleful hour art thou return to me , poor boy , '' she say , `` for thy mother 's path have go darken onward , till now the end be death .
Son , son , I have bear thee in my arm when my limb be totter , and I have feed thee with the food that I be faint for ; yet I have ill-performed a mother 's part by thee in life , and now I leave thee no inheritance but woe and shame .
Thou wilt go seek through the world , and find all heart close against thee and their sweet affection turn to bitterness for my sake .
My child , my child , how many a pang awaits thy gentle spirit , and I the cause of all ! ''
She hide her face on Ilbrahim 's head , and her long raven hair , discolor with the ash of her mourning , fell down about him like a veil .
A low and interrupted moan be the voice of her heart 's anguish , and it do not fail to move the sympathy of many who mistake their involuntary virtue for a sin .
Sobs be audible in the female section of the house , and every man who be a father draw his hand across his eye .
Tobias Pearson be agitate and uneasy , but a certain feeling like the consciousness of guilt oppress him ; so that he could not go forth and offer himself a the protector of the child .
Dorothy , however , have watch her husband 's eye .
Her mind be free from the influence that have begin to work on his , and she draw near the Quaker woman and address her in the hearing of all the congregation .
`` Stranger , trust this boy to me , and I will be his mother , '' she say , take Ilbrahim 's hand .
`` Providence have signally mark out my husband to protect him , and he have feed at our table and lodge under our roof now many day , till our heart have grow very strongly unto him .
Leave the tender child with u , and be at ease concern his welfare . ''
The Quaker rise from the ground , but draw the boy closer to her , while she gaze earnestly in Dorothy 's face .
Her mild but sadden feature and neat matronly attire harmonize together and be like a verse of fireside poetry .
Her very aspect prove that she be blameless , so far a mortal could be so , in respect to God and man , while the enthusiast , in her robe of sackcloth and girdle of knot cord , have a evidently violate the duty of the present life and the future by fix her attention wholly on the latter .
The two female , a they hold each a hand of Ilbrahim , form a practical allegory : it be rational piety and unbridled fanaticism contend for the empire of a young heart .
`` Thou art not of our people , '' say the Quaker , mournfully .
`` No , we be not of your people , '' reply Dorothy , with mildness , `` but we be Christians look upward to the same heaven with you .
Doubt not that your boy shall meet you there , if there be a blessing on our tender and prayerful guidance of him .
Thither , I trust , my own child have go before me , for I also have be a mother .
I be no longer so , '' she add , in a faltering tone , `` and your son will have all my care . ''
`` But will ye lead him in the path which his parent have tread ? ''
demand the Quaker .
`` Can ye teach him the enlighten faith which his father have die for , and for which I -- even I -- be soon to become an unworthy martyr ?
The boy have be baptize in blood ; will ye keep the mark fresh and ruddy upon his forehead ? ''
`` I will not deceive you , '' answer Dorothy .
`` If your child become our child , we must breed him up in the instruction which Heaven have impart to u ; we must pray for him the prayer of our own faith ; we must do toward him accord to the dictate of our own conscience , and not of yours .
Were we to act otherwise , we should abuse your trust , even in comply with your wish . ''
The mother look down upon her boy with a troubled countenance , and then turn her eye upward to heaven .
She seem to pray internally , and the contention of her soul be evident .
`` Friend , '' she say , at length , to Dorothy , `` I doubt not that my son shall receive all earthly tenderness at thy hand .
Nay , I will believe that even thy imperfect light may guide him to a good world , for surely thou art on the path thither .
But thou hast spoken of a husband .
Doth he stand here among this multitude of people ?
Let him come forth , for I must know to whom I commit this most precious trust . ''
She turn her face upon the male auditor , and after a momentary delay Tobias Pearson come forth from among them .
The Quaker saw the dress which mark his military rank , and shake her head ; but then she note the hesitate air , the eye that struggle with her own and be vanquish , the color that go and come and could find no resting-place .
As she gaze an unmirthful smile spread over her feature , like sunshine that grow melancholy in some desolate spot .
Her lip move inaudibly , but at length she spake : `` I hear it , I hear it !
The voice speaketh within me and saith , ` Leave thy child , Catharine , for his place be here , and go hence , for I have other work for thee .
Break the bond of natural affection , martyr thy love , and know that in all these thing eternal wisdom hath it end . '
I go , friend , I go .
Take ye my boy , my precious jewel .
I go hence trust that all shall be well , and that even for his infant hand there be a labor in the vineyard . ''
She kneel down and whisper to Ilbrahim , who at first struggle and clung to his mother with sob and tear , but remain passive when she have kiss his cheek and arisen from the ground .
Having hold her hand over his head in mental prayer , she be ready to depart .
`` Farewell , friends in mine extremity , '' she say to Pearson and his wife ; `` the good deed ye have do me be a treasure lay up in heaven , to be return a thousandfold hereafter .
-- And farewell , ye mine enemy , to whom it be not permit to harm so much a a hair of my head , nor to stay my footstep even for a moment .
The day be come when ye shall call upon me to witness for ye to this one sin uncommitted , and I will rise up and answer . ''
She turn her step toward the door , and the men who have station themselves to guard it withdraw and suffer her to pass .
A general sentiment of pity overcome the virulence of religious hatred .
Sanctified by her love and her affliction , she go forth , and all the people gaze after her till she have journey up the hill and be lose behind it brow .
She go , the apostle of her own unquiet heart , to renew the wandering of past year .
For her voice have be already hear in many land of Christendom , and she have pin in the cell of a Catholic Inquisition before she felt the lash and lay in the dungeon of the Puritans .
Her mission have extend also to the follower of the Prophet , and from them she have receive the courtesy and kindness which all the contend sect of our purer religion unite to deny her .
Her husband and herself have reside many month in Turkey , where even the sultan 's countenance be gracious to them ; in that pagan land , too , be Ilbrahim 's birthplace , and his Oriental name be a mark of gratitude for the good deed of an unbeliever .
* * * * * When Pearson and his wife have thus acquire all the right over Ilbrahim that could be delegate , their affection for him become , like the memory of their native land or their mild sorrow for the dead , a piece of the immovable furniture of their heart .
The boy , also , after a week or two of mental disquiet , begin to gratify his protector by many inadvertent proof that he consider them a parent and their house a home .
Before the winter snow be melt the persecuted infant , the little wanderer from a remote and heathen country , seem native in the New England cottage and inseparable from the warmth and security of it hearth .
Under the influence of kind treatment , and in the consciousness that he be love , Ilbrahim 's demeanor lose a premature manliness which have result from his early situation ; he become more childlike and his natural character display itself with freedom .
It be in many respect a beautiful one , yet the disordered imagination of both his father and mother have perhaps propagate a certain unhealthiness in the mind of the boy .
In his general state Ilbrahim would derive enjoyment from the most trifling event and from every object about him ; he seem to discover rich treasure of happiness by a faculty analogous to that of the witch-hazel , which point to hide gold where all be barren to the eye .
His airy gayety , come to him from a thousand source , communicate itself to the family , and Ilbrahim be like a domesticated sunbeam , brighten moody countenance and chase away the gloom from the dark corner of the cottage .
On the other hand , a the susceptibility of pleasure be also that of pain , the exuberant cheerfulness of the boy 's prevailing temper sometimes yield to moment of deep depression .
His sorrow could not always be follow up to their original source , but most frequently they appear to flow -- though Ilbrahim be young to be sad for such a cause -- from wound love .
The flightiness of his mirth render him often guilty of offence against the decorum of a Puritan household , and on these occasion he do not invariably escape rebuke .
But the slight word of real bitterness , which he be infallible in distinguish from pretend anger , seem to sink into his heart and poison all his enjoyment till he become sensible that he be entirely forgive .
Of the malice which generally accompany a superfluity of sensitiveness Ilbrahim be altogether destitute .
When trodden upon , he would not turn ; when wound , he could but die .
His mind be want in the stamen of self-support .
It be a plant that would twine beautifully round something strong than itself ; but if repulse or tear away , it have no choice but to wither on the ground .
Dorothy 's acuteness teach her that severity would crush the spirit of the child , and she nurture him with the gentle care of one who handle a butterfly .
Her husband manifest an equal affection , although it grow daily less productive of familiar caress .
The feeling of the neighboring people in regard to the Quaker infant and his protector have not undergone a favorable change , in spite of the momentary triumph which the desolate mother have obtain over their sympathy .
The scorn and bitterness of which he be the object be very grievous to Ilbrahim , especially when any circumstance make him sensible that the child his equal in age partook of the enmity of their parent .
His tender and social nature have already overflow in attachment to everything about him , and still there be a residue of unappropriated love which he yearn to bestow upon the little one who be teach to hate him .
As the warm day of spring come on Ilbrahim be accustom to remain for hour silent and inactive within hearing of the child 's voice at their play , yet with his usual delicacy of feel he avoid their notice , and would flee and hide himself from the small individual among them .
Chance , however , at length seem to open a medium of communication between his heart and theirs ; it be by mean of a boy about two year old than Ilbrahim , who be injure by a fall from a tree in the vicinity of Pearson 's habitation .
As the sufferer 's own home be at some distance , Dorothy willingly receive him under her roof and become his tender and careful nurse .
Ilbrahim be the unconscious possessor of much skill in physiognomy , and it would have deter him in other circumstance from attempt to make a friend of this boy .
The countenance of the latter immediately impress a beholder disagreeably , but it require some examination to discover that the cause be a very slight distortion of the mouth and the irregular , broken line and near approach of the eyebrow .
Analogous , perhaps , to these trifle deformity be an almost imperceptible twist of every joint and the uneven prominence of the breast , form a body regular in it general outline , but faulty in almost all it detail .
The disposition of the boy be sullen and reserve , and the village schoolmaster stigmatize him a obtuse in intellect , although at a late period of life he evince ambition and very peculiar talent .
But , whatever might be his personal or moral irregularity , Ilbrahim 's heart seize upon and cling to him from the moment that he be bring wound into the cottage ; the child of persecution seem to compare his own fate with that of the sufferer , and to feel that even different mode of misfortune have create a sort of relationship between them .
Food , rest and the fresh air for which he languish be neglect ; he nestle continually by the bedside of the little stranger and with a fond jealousy endeavor to be the medium of all the care that be bestow upon him .
As the boy become convalescent Ilbrahim contrive game suitable to his situation or amuse him by a faculty which he have perhaps breathe in with the air of his barbaric birthplace .
It be that of recite imaginary adventure on the spur of the moment , and apparently in inexhaustible succession .
His tale be , of course , monstrous , disjointed and without aim , but they be curious on account of a vein of human tenderness which run through them all and be like a sweet familiar face encounter in the midst of wild and unearthly scenery .
The auditor pay much attention to these romance and sometimes interrupt them by brief remark upon the incident , display shrewdness above his year , mingle with a moral obliquity which grate very harshly against Ilbrahim 's instinctive rectitude .
Nothing , however , could arrest the progress of the latter 's affection , and there be many proof that it meet with a response from the dark and stubborn nature on which it be lavish .
The boy 's parent at length remove him to complete his cure under their own roof .
Ilbrahim do not visit his new friend after his departure , but he make anxious and continual inquiry respect him and inform himself of the day when he be to reappear among his playmate .
On a pleasant summer afternoon the child of the neighborhood have assemble in the little forest-crowned amphitheatre behind the meeting-house , and the recover invalid be there , lean on a staff .
The glee of a score of untainted bosom be hear in light and airy voice , which dance among the tree like sunshine become audible ; the grown men of this weary world a they journey by the spot marvel why life , begin in such brightness , should proceed in gloom , and their heart or their imagination answer them and say that the bliss of childhood gush from it innocence .
But it happen that an unexpected addition be make to the heavenly little band .
It be Ilbrahim , who come toward the child with a look of sweet confidence on his fair and spiritual face , a if , have manifest his love to one of them , he have no longer to fear a repulse from their society .
A hush come over their mirth the moment they behold him , and they stand whisper to each other while he draw nigh ; but all at once the devil of their father enter into the unbreeched fanatic , and , send up a fierce , shrill cry , they rush upon the poor Quaker child .
In an instant he be the centre of a brood of baby-fiends , who lift stick against him , pelt him with stone and display an instinct of destruction far more loathsome than the bloodthirstiness of manhood .
The invalid , in the mean while , stand apart from the tumult , cry out with a loud voice , `` Fear not , Ilbrahim ; come hither and take my hand , '' and his unhappy friend endeavor to obey him .
After watch the victim 's struggle approach with a calm smile and unabashed eye , the foul-hearted little villain lift his staff and strike Ilbrahim on the mouth so forcibly that the blood issue in a stream .
The poor child 's arm have be raise to guard his head from the storm of blow , but now he drop them at once .
His persecutor beat him down , trample upon him , drag him by his long fair lock , and Ilbrahim be on the point of become a veritable a martyr a ever enter bleeding into heaven .
The uproar , however , attract the notice of a few neighbor , who put themselves to the trouble of rescue the little heretic , and of convey him to Pearson 's door .
Ilbrahim 's bodily harm be severe , but long and careful nursing accomplish his recovery ; the injury do to his sensitive spirit be more serious , though not so visible .
Its sign be principally of a negative character , and to be discover only by those who have previously know him .
His gait be thenceforth slow , even and unvaried by the sudden burst of sprightly motion which have once correspond to his overflow gladness ; his countenance be heavy , and it former play of expression -- the dance of sunshine reflect from move water -- be destroy by the cloud over his existence ; his notice be attract in a far less degree by pass event , and he appear to find great difficulty in comprehend what be new to him than at a happy period .
A stranger found his judgment upon these circumstance would have say that the dulness of the child 's intellect widely contradict the promise of his feature , but the secret be in the direction of Ilbrahim 's thought , which be brood within him when they should naturally have be wander abroad .
An attempt of Dorothy to revive his former sportiveness be the single occasion on which his quiet demeanor yield to a violent display of grief ; he burst into passionate weeping and ran and hid himself , for his heart have become so miserably sore that even the hand of kindness torture it like fire .
Sometimes at night , and probably in his dream , he be hear to cry , `` Mother !
Mother ! ''
a if her place , which a stranger have supply while Ilbrahim be happy , admit of no substitute in his extreme affliction .
Perhaps among the many life-weary wretch then upon the earth there be not one who combine innocence and misery like this poor broken-hearted infant so soon the victim of his own heavenly nature .
While this melancholy change have take place in Ilbrahim , one of an early origin and of different character have come to it perfection in his adopted father .
The incident with which this tale commence find Pearson in a state of religious dulness , yet mentally disquiet and long for a more fervid faith than he possess .
The first effect of his kindness to Ilbrahim be to produce a softened feeling , an incipient love for the child 's whole sect , but join to this , and result , perhaps , from self-suspicion , be a proud and ostentatious contempt of their tenet and practical extravagance .
In the course of much thought , however -- for the subject struggle irresistibly into his mind -- the foolishness of the doctrine begin to be less evident , and the point which have particularly offend his reason assume another aspect or vanish entirely away .
The work within him appear to go on even while he sleep , and that which have be a doubt when he lay down to rest would often hold the place of a truth confirm by some forgotten demonstration when he recall his thought in the morning .
But , while he be thus become assimilate to the enthusiast , his contempt , in nowise decrease toward them , grow very fierce against himself ; he imagine , also , that every face of his acquaintance wear a sneer , and that every word address to him be a gibe .
Such be his state of mind at the period of Ilbrahim 's misfortune , and the emotion consequent upon that event complete the change of which the child have be the original instrument .
In the mean time , neither the fierceness of the persecutor nor the infatuation of their victim have decrease .
The dungeon be never empty ; the street of almost every village echo daily with the lash ; the life of a woman whose mild and Christian spirit no cruelty could embitter have be sacrifice , and more innocent blood be yet to pollute the hand that be so often raise in prayer .
Early after the Restoration the English Quakers represent to Charles II .
that a `` vein of blood be open in his dominion , '' but , though the displeasure of the voluptuous king be rouse , his interference be not prompt .
And now the tale must stride forward over many month , leave Pearson to encounter ignominy and misfortune ; his wife , to a firm endurance of a thousand sorrow ; poor Ilbrahim , to pine and droop like a cankered rose-bud ; his mother , to wander on a mistaken errand , neglectful of the holy trust which can be commit to a woman .
* * * * * A winter evening , a night of storm , have darken over Pearson 's habitation , and there be no cheerful face to drive the gloom from his broad hearth .
The fire , it be true , send forth a glowing heat and a ruddy light , and large log drip with half-melted snow lay ready to cast upon the ember .
But the apartment be sadden in it aspect by the absence of much of the homely wealth which have once adorn it , for the exaction of repeat fine and his own neglect of temporal affair have greatly impoverish the owner .
And with the furniture of peace the implement of war have likewise disappear ; the sword be break , the helm and cuirass be cast away for ever : the soldier have do with battle , and might not lift so much a his naked hand to guard his head .
But the Holy Book remain , and the table on which it rest be draw before the fire , while two of the persecuted sect seek comfort from it page .
He who listen while the other read be the master of the house , now emaciate in form and alter a to the expression and healthiness of his countenance , for his mind have dwelt too long among visionary thought and his body have be wear by imprisonment and stripe .
The hale and weatherbeaten old man who sit beside him have sustain less injury from a far long course of the same mode of life .
In person he be tall and dignified , and , which alone would have make him hateful to the Puritans , his gray lock fell from beneath the broad-brimmed hat and rest on his shoulder .
As the old man read the sacred page the snow drift against the window or eddy in at the crevice of the door , while a blast keep laugh in the chimney and the blaze leap fiercely up to seek it .
And sometimes , when the wind strike the hill at a certain angle and sweep down by the cottage across the wintry plain , it voice be the most doleful that can be conceive ; it come a if the past be speak , a if the dead have contribute each a whisper , a if the desolation of age be breathe in that one lamenting sound .
The Quaker at length close the book , retaining , however , his hand between the page which he have be read , while he look steadfastly at Pearson .
The attitude and feature of the latter might have indicate the endurance of bodily pain ; he lean his forehead on his hand , his teeth be firmly close and his frame be tremulous at interval with a nervous agitation .
`` Friend Tobias , '' inquire the old man , compassionately , `` hast thou find no comfort in these many bless passage of Scripture ? ''
`` Thy voice have fall on my ear like a sound afar off and indistinct , '' reply Pearson , without lift his eye .
`` Yea ; and when I have hearken carefully , the word seem cold and lifeless and intend for another and a less grief than mine .
Remove the book , '' he add , in a tone of sullen bitterness ; `` I have no part in it consolation , and they do but fret my sorrow the more . ''
`` Nay , feeble brother ; be not a one who hath never know the light , '' say the elder Quaker , earnestly , but with mildness .
`` Art thou he that wouldst be content to give all and endure all for conscience ' sake , desire even peculiar trial that thy faith might be purify and thy heart wean from worldly desire ?
And wilt thou sink beneath an affliction which happen alike to them that have their portion here below and to them that lay up treasure in heaven ?
Faint not , for thy burden be yet light . ''
`` It be heavy !
It be heavy than I can bear ! ''
exclaim Pearson , with the impatience of a variable spirit .
`` From my youth upward I have be a man mark out for wrath , and year by year -- yea , day after day -- I have endure sorrow such a others know not in their lifetime .
And now I speak not of the love that have be turn to hatred , the honor to ignominy , the ease and plentifulness of all thing to danger , want and nakedness .
All this I could have bear and count myself bless .
But when my heart be desolate with many loss , I fix it upon the child of a stranger , and he become dearer to me than all my buried one ; and now he too must die a if my love be poison .
Verily , I be an accursed man , and I will lay me down in the dust and lift up my head no more . ''
`` Thou sinnest , brother , but it be not for me to rebuke thee , for I also have have my hour of darkness wherein I have murmur against the cross , '' say the old Quaker .
He continue , perhaps in the hope of distract his companion 's thought from his own sorrow : `` Even of late be the light obscure within me , when the men of blood have banish me on pain of death and the constable lead me onward from village to village toward the wilderness .
A strong and cruel hand be wield the knotted cord ; they sink deep into the flesh , and thou mightst have track every reel and totter of my footstep by the blood that follow .
As we go on -- '' `` Have I not bear all this , and have I murmur ? ''
interrupted Pearson , impatiently .
`` Nay , friend , but hear me , '' continue the other .
`` As we journey on night darken on our path , so that no man could see the rage of the persecutor or the constancy of my endurance , though Heaven forbid that I should glory therein .
The light begin to glimmer in the cottage windows , and I could discern the inmate a they gather in comfort and security , every man with his wife and child by their own evening hearth .
At length we come to a tract of fertile land .
In the dim light the forest be not visible around it , and , behold , there be a straw-thatched dwelling which bore the very aspect of my home far over the wild ocean -- far in our own England .
Then come bitter thought upon me -- yea , remembrance that be like death to my soul .
The happiness of my early day be paint to me , the disquiet of my manhood , the altered faith of my decline year .
I remember how I have be move to go forth a wanderer when my daughter , the young , the dearest of my flock , lay on her dying-bed , and -- '' `` Couldst thou obey the command at such a moment ? ''
exclaim Pearson , shudder .
`` Yea !
yea ! ''
reply the old man , hurriedly .
`` I be kneel by her bedside when the voice speak loud within me , but immediately I rise and take my staff and gat me go .
Oh that it be permit me to forget her woeful look when I thus withdraw my arm and leave her journeying through the dark valley alone !
for her soul be faint and she have lean upon my prayer .
Now in that night of horror I be assail by the thought that I have be an err Christian and a cruel parent ; yea , even my daughter with her pale dying feature seem to stand by me and whisper , ` Father , you be deceive ; go home and shelter your gray head . '
-- O Thou to whom I have look in my furthest wandering , '' continue the Quaker , raise his agitated eye to heaven , `` inflict not upon the bloodiest of our persecutor the unmitigated agony of my soul when I believe that all I have do and suffer for thee be at the instigation of a mock fiend !
-- But I yield not ; I kneel down and wrestle with the tempter , while the scourge bit more fiercely into the flesh .
My prayer be hear , and I go on in peace and joy toward the wilderness . ''
The old man , though his fanaticism have generally all the calmness of reason , be deeply move while recite this tale , and his unwonted emotion seem to rebuke and keep down that of his companion .
They sit in silence , with their face to the fire , imagining , perhaps , in it red ember new scene of persecution yet to be encounter .
The snow still drift hard against the window , and sometimes , a the blaze of the log have gradually sink , come down the spacious chimney and hiss upon the hearth .
A cautious footstep might now and then be hear in a neighboring apartment , and the sound invariably draw the eye of both Quakers to the door which lead thither .
When a fierce and riotous gust of wind have lead his thought by a natural association to homeless traveller on such a night , Pearson resume the conversation .
`` I have wellnigh sunk under my own share of this trial , '' observe he , sigh heavily ; `` yet I would that it might be double to me , if so the child 's mother could be spar .
Her wound have be deep and many , but this will be the sore of all . ''
`` Fear not for Catharine , '' reply the old Quaker , `` for I know that valiant woman and have see how she can bear the cross .
A mother 's heart , indeed , be strong in her , and may seem to contend mightily with her faith ; but soon she will stand up and give thanks that her son have be thus early an accepted sacrifice .
The boy hath do his work , and she will feel that he be take hence in kindness both to him and her .
Blessed , bless be they that with so little suffering can enter into peace ! ''
The fitful rush of the wind be now disturb by a portentous sound : it be a quick and heavy knocking at the outer door .
Pearson 's wan countenance grow paler , for many a visit of persecution have teach him what to dread ; the old man , on the other hand , stand up erect , and his glance be firm a that of the tried soldier who await his enemy .
`` The men of blood have come to seek me , '' he observe , with calmness .
`` They have hear how I be move to return from banishment , and now be I to be lead to prison , and thence to death .
It be an end I have long look for .
I will open unto them l they say , ` Lo , he feareth ! ' ''
`` Nay ; I will present myself before them , '' say Pearson , with recovered fortitude .
`` It may be that they seek me alone and know not that thou abidest with me . ''
`` Let u go boldly , both one and the other , '' rejoin his companion .
`` It be not fit that thou or I should shrink . ''
They therefore proceed through the entry to the door , which they open , bid the applicant `` Come in , in God 's name ! ''
A furious blast of wind drive the storm into their face and extinguish the lamp ; they have barely time to discern a figure so white from head to foot with the drift snow that it seem like Winter 's self come in human shape to seek refuge from it own desolation .
`` Enter , friend , and do thy errand , be it what it may , '' say Pearson .
`` It must needs be press , since thou comest on such a bitter night . ''
`` Peace be with this household ! ''
say the stranger , when they stand on the floor of the inner apartment .
Pearson start ; the elder Quaker stir the slumber ember of the fire till they send up a clear and lofty blaze .
It be a female voice that have speak ; it be a female form that shine out , cold and wintry , in that comfortable light .
`` Catharine , bless woman , '' exclaim the old man , `` art thou come to this darken land again ?
Art thou come to bear a valiant testimony a in former year ?
The scourge hath not prevail against thee , and from the dungeon hast thou come forth triumphant , but strengthen , strengthen now thy heart , Catharine , for Heaven will prove thee yet this once ere thou go to thy reward . ''
`` Rejoice , friends ! ''
she reply .
`` Thou who hast long be of our people , and thou whom a little child hath lead to u , rejoice !
Lo , I come , the messenger of glad tidings , for the day of persecution be over-past .
The heart of the king , even Charles , hath be move in gentleness toward u , and he hath sent forth his letter to stay the hand of the men of blood .
A ship 's company of our friend hath arrive at yonder town , and I also sail joyfully among them . ''
As Catharine speak her eye be roam about the room in search of him for whose sake security be dear to her .
Pearson make a silent appeal to the old man , nor do the latter shrink from the painful task assign him .
`` Sister , '' he begin , in a softened yet perfectly calm tone , `` thou tellest u of his love manifest in temporal good , and now must we speak to thee of that selfsame love display in chastening .
Hitherto , Catharine , thou hast be a one journeying in a darksome and difficult path and lead an infant by the hand ; fain wouldst thou have look heavenward continually , but still the care of that little child have draw thine eye and thy affection to the earth .
Sister , go on rejoicing , for his totter footstep shall impede thine own no more . ''
But the unhappy mother be not thus to be console .
She shake like a leaf ; she turn white a the very snow that hung drift into her hair .
The firm old man extend his hand and hold her up , keep his eye upon hers a if to repress any outbreak of passion .
`` I be a woman -- I be but a woman ; will He try me above my strength ? ''
say Catharine , very quickly and almost in a whisper .
`` I have be wound sore ; I have suffer much -- many thing in the body , many in the mind ; crucify in myself and in them that be dearest to me .
Surely , '' add she , with a long shudder , `` he hath spar me in this one thing . ''
She break forth with sudden and irrepressible violence : `` Tell me , man of cold heart , what have God do to me ?
Hath he cast me down never to rise again ?
Hath he crush my very heart in his hand ?
-- And thou to whom I commit my child , how hast thou fulfil thy trust ?
Give me back the boy well , sound , alive -- alive -- or earth and heaven shall avenge me ! ''
The agonized shriek of Catharine be answer by the faint -- the very faint -- voice of a child .
On this day it have become evident to Pearson , to his age guest and to Dorothy that Ilbrahim 's brief and troubled pilgrimage draw near it close .
The two former would willingly have remain by him to make use of the prayer and pious discourse which they deem appropriate to the time , and which , if they be impotent a to the depart traveller 's reception in the world whither he go , may at least sustain him in bidding adieu to earth .
But , though Ilbrahim utter no complaint , he be disturb by the face that look upon him ; so that Dorothy 's entreaty and their own conviction that the child 's foot might tread heaven 's pavement and not soil it have induce the two Quakers to remove .
Ilbrahim then close his eye and grow calm , and , except for now and then a kind and low word to his nurse , might have be think to slumber .
As nightfall come on , however , and the storm begin to rise , something seem to trouble the repose of the boy 's mind and to render his sense of hear active and acute .
If a passing wind linger to shake the casement , he strive to turn his head toward it ; if the door jar to and fro upon it hinge , he look long and anxiously thitherward ; if the heavy voice of the old man a he read the Scriptures rise but a little high , the child almost hold his dying-breath to listen ; if a snowdrift sweep by the cottage with a sound like the trailing of a garment , Ilbrahim seem to watch that some visitant should enter .
But after a little time he relinquish whatever secret hope have agitate him and with one low complain whisper turn his cheek upon the pillow .
He then address Dorothy with his usual sweetness and beseech her to draw near him ; she do so , and Ilbrahim take her hand in both of his , grasp it with a gentle pressure , a if to assure himself that he retain it .
At interval , and without disturb the repose of his countenance , a very faint trembling pass over him from head to foot , a if a mild but somewhat cool wind have breathe upon him and make him shiver .
As the boy thus lead her by the hand in his quiet progress over the border of eternity , Dorothy almost imagine that she could discern the near though dim delightfulness of the home he be about to reach ; she would not have entice the little wanderer back , though she bemoan herself that she must leave him and return .
But just when Ilbrahim 's foot be press on the soil of Paradise he hear a voice behind him , and it recall him a few , few pace of the weary path which he have travel .
As Dorothy look upon his feature she perceive that their placid expression be again disturbed .
Her own thought have be so wrap in him that all sound of the storm and of human speech be lose to her ; but when Catharine 's shriek pierce through the room , the boy strove to raise himself .
`` Friend , she be come !
Open unto her ! ''
cry he .
In a moment his mother be kneel by the bedside ; she draw Ilbrahim to her bosom , and he nestle there with no violence of joy , but contentedly a if he be hush himself to sleep .
He look into her face , and , read it agony , say with feeble earnestness , `` Mourn not , dear mother .
I be happy now ; '' and with these word the gentle boy be dead .
* * * * * The king 's mandate to stay the New England persecutor be effectual in prevent further martyrdom , but the colonial authority , trust in the remoteness of their situation , and perhaps in the supposed instability of the royal government , shortly renew their severity in all other respect .
Catharine 's fanaticism have become wilder by the sundering of all human tie ; and wherever a scourge be lift , there be she to receive the blow ; and whenever a dungeon be unbarred , thither she come to cast herself upon the floor .
But in process of time a more Christian spirit -- a spirit of forbearance , though not of cordiality or approbation -- begin to pervade the land in regard to the persecute sect .
And then , when the rigid old Pilgrims eye her rather in pity than in wrath , when the matron feed her with the fragment of their child 's food and offer her a lodging on a hard and lowly bed , when no little crowd of schoolboy leave their sport to cast stone after the roving enthusiast , -- then do Catharine return to Pearson 's dwelling , and make that her home .
As if Ilbrahim 's sweetness yet linger round his ash , a if his gentle spirit come down from heaven to teach his parent a true religion , her fierce and vindictive nature be soften by the same grief which have once irritate it .
When the course of year have make the feature of the unobtrusive mourner familiar in the settlement , she become a subject of not deep but general interest -- a be on whom the otherwise superfluous sympathy of all might be bestow .
Every one spoke of her with that degree of pity which it be pleasant to experience ; every one be ready to do her the little kindness which be not costly , yet manifest good-will ; and when at last she die , a long train of her once bitter persecutor follow her with decent sadness and tear that be not painful to her place by Ilbrahim 's green and sunken grave .
MR. HIGGINBOTHAM 'S CATASTROPHE .
A young fellow , a tobacco-pedler by trade , be on his way from Morristown , where he have deal largely with the deacon of the Shaker settlement , to the village of Parker 's Falls , on Salmon River .
He have a neat little cart paint green , with a box of cigar depict on each side-panel , and an Indian chief hold a pipe and a golden tobacco-stalk on the rear .
The pedler drive a smart little mare and be a young man of excellent character , keen at a bargain , but none the bad like by the Yankees , who , a I have hear them say , would rather be shave with a sharp razor than a dull one .
Especially be he beloved by the pretty girl along the Connecticut , whose favor he use to court by present of the best smoking-tobacco in his stock , know well that the country-lasses of New England be generally great performer on pipe .
Moreover , a will be see in the course of my story , the pedler be inquisitive and something of a tattler , always itch to hear the news and anxious to tell it again .
After an early breakfast at Morristown the tobacco-pedler -- whose name be Dominicus Pike -- have travel seven mile through a solitary piece of wood without speak a word to anybody but himself and his little gray mare .
It be nearly seven o'clock , he be as eager to hold a morning gossip a a city shopkeeper to read the morning paper .
An opportunity seem at hand when , after light a cigar with a sun-glass , he look up and perceive a man come over the brow of the hill at the foot of which the pedler have stop his green cart .
Dominicus watch him a he descend , and notice that he carry a bundle over his shoulder on the end of a stick and travel with a weary yet determine pace .
He do not look a if he have start in the freshness of the morning , but have foot it all night , and meant to do the same all day .
`` Good-morning , mister , '' say Dominicus , when within speaking-distance .
`` You go a pretty good jog .
What 's the late news at Parker 's Falls ? ''
The man pull the broad brim of a gray hat over his eye , and answer , rather sullenly , that he do not come from Parker 's Falls , which , a be the limit of his own day 's journey , the pedler have naturally mention in his inquiry .
`` Well , then , '' rejoin Dominicus Pike , `` let 's have the late news where you do come from .
I 'm not particular about Parker 's Falls .
Any place will answer . ''
Being thus importune , the traveller -- who be a ill-looking a fellow a one would desire to meet in a solitary piece of wood -- appear to hesitate a little , a if he be either search his memory for news or weigh the expediency of tell it .
At last , mount on the step of the cart , he whisper in the ear of Dominicus , though he might have shout aloud and no other mortal would have hear him .
`` I do remember one little trifle of news , '' say he .
`` Old Mr. Higginbotham of Kimballton be murder in his orchard at eight o'clock last night by an Irishman and a nigger .
They string him up to the branch of a St. Michael 's pear tree where nobody would find him till the morning . ''
As soon a this horrible intelligence be communicate the stranger betook himself to his journey again with more speed than ever , not even turn his head when Dominicus invite him to smoke a Spanish cigar and relate all the particular .
The pedler whistle to his mare and go up the hill , ponder on the doleful fate of Mr. Higginbotham , whom he have know in the way of trade , have sell him many a bunch of long nine and a great deal of pig-tail , lady 's twist and fig tobacco .
He be rather astonish at the rapidity with which the news have spread .
Kimballton be nearly sixty mile distant in a straight line ; the murder have be perpetrate only at eight o'clock the precede night , yet Dominicus have hear of it at seven in the morning , when , in all probability , poor Mr. Higginbotham 's own family have but just discover his corpse hang on the St. Michael 's pear tree .
The stranger on foot must have wear seven-league boot , to travel at such a rate .
`` Ill-news fly fast , they say , '' think Dominicus Pike , `` but this beat railroad .
The fellow ought to be hire to go express with the President 's message . ''
The difficulty be solve by suppose that the narrator have make a mistake of one day in the date of the occurrence ; so that our friend do not hesitate to introduce the story at every tavern and country-store along the road , expend a whole bunch of Spanish wrapper among at least twenty horrified audience .
He find himself invariably the first bearer of the intelligence , and be so pestered with question that he could not avoid fill up the outline till it become quite a respectable narrative .
He meet with one piece of corroborative evidence .
Mr. Higginbotham be a trader , and a former clerk of his to whom Dominicus relate the fact testify that the old gentleman be accustom to return home through the orchard about nightfall with the money and valuable paper of the store in his pocket .
The clerk manifest but little grief at Mr. Higginbotham 's catastrophe , hint -- what the pedler have discover in his own dealing with him -- that he be a crusty old fellow as close a a vise .
His property would descend to a pretty niece who be now keep school in Kimballton .
What with tell the news for the public good and driving bargain for his own , Dominicus be so much delay on the road that he choose to put up at a tavern about five mile short of Parker 's Falls .
After supper , light one of his prime cigar , he seat himself in the bar-room and go through the story of the murder , which have grow so fast that it take him half an hour to tell .
There be as many a twenty people in the room , nineteen of whom receive it all for gospel .
But the twentieth be an elderly farmer who have arrive on horseback a short time before and be now seat in a corner , smoke his pipe .
When the story be conclude , he rise up very deliberately , bring his chair right in front of Dominicus and star him full in the face , puff out the vile tobacco-smoke the pedler have ever smelt .
`` Will you make affidavit , '' demand he , in the tone of a country-justice take an examination , `` that old Squire Higginbotham of Kimballton be murder in his orchard the night before last and find hang on his great pear tree yesterday morning ? ''
`` I tell the story a I hear it , mister , '' answer Dominicus , drop his half-burnt cigar .
`` I do n't say that I saw the thing do , so I ca n't take my oath that he be murder exactly in that way . ''
`` But I can take mine , '' say the farmer , `` that if Squire Higginbotham be murder night before last I drink a glass of bitter with his ghost this morning .
Being a neighbor of mine , he call me into his store a I be rid by , and treat me , and then ask me to do a little business for him on the road .
He do n't seem to know any more about his own murder than I do . ''
`` Why , then it ca n't be a fact ! ''
exclaim Dominicus Pike .
`` I guess he 'd have mention , if it be , '' say the old farmer ; and he remove his chair back to the corner , leave Dominicus quite down in the mouth .
Here be a sad resurrection of old Mr. Higginbotham !
The pedler have no heart to mingle in the conversation any more , but comfort himself with a glass of gin and water and go to bed , where all night long he dream of hang on the St. Michael 's pear tree .
To avoid the old farmer -LRB- whom he so detest that his suspension would have please him good than Mr. Higginbotham 's -RRB- , Dominicus rise in the gray of the morning , put the little mare into the green cart and trot swiftly away toward Parker 's Falls .
The fresh breeze , the dewy road and the pleasant summer dawn revive his spirit , and might have encourage him to repeat the old story have there be anybody awake to bear it , but he meet neither ox-team , light wagon , chaise , horseman nor foot-traveller till , just a he cross Salmon River , a man come trudge down to the bridge with a bundle over his shoulder , on the end of a stick .
`` Good-morning , mister , '' say the pedler , rein in his mare .
`` If you come from Kimballton or that neighborhood , maybe you can tell me the real fact about this affair of old Mr. Higginbotham .
Was the old fellow actually murder two or three night ago by an Irishman and a nigger ? ''
Dominicus have speak in too great a hurry to observe at first that the stranger himself have a deep tinge of negro blood .
On hear this sudden question the Ethiopian appear to change his skin , it yellow hue become a ghastly white , while , shake and stammering , he thus reply : `` No , no !
There be no colored man .
It be an Irishman that hang him last night at eight o'clock ; I come away at seven .
His folk ca n't have look for him in the orchard yet . ''
Scarcely have the yellow man speak , when he interrupt himself and , though he seem weary enough before , continue his journey at a pace which would have keep the pedler 's mare on a smart trot .
Dominicus star after him in great perplexity .
If the murder have not be commit till Tuesday night , who be the prophet that have foretell it in all it circumstance on Tuesday morning ?
If Mr. Higginbotham 's corpse be not yet discover by his own family , how come the mulatto , at above thirty mile ' distance , to know that he be hang in the orchard , especially a he have leave Kimballton before the unfortunate man be hang at all ?
These ambiguous circumstance , with the stranger 's surprise and terror , make Dominicus think of raise a hue-and-cry after him a an accomplice in the murder , since a murder , it seem , have really be perpetrate .
`` But let the poor devil go , '' think the pedler .
`` I do n't want his black blood on my head , and hang the nigger would n't unhang Mr. Higginbotham .
Unhang the old gentleman ?
It 's a sin , I know , but I should hate to have him come to life a second time and give me the lie . ''
With these meditation Dominicus Pike drive into the street of Parker 's Falls , which , a everybody know , be a thrive a village a three cotton-factories and a slitting-mill can make it .
The machinery be not in motion and but a few of the shop door unbar when he alight in the stable-yard of the tavern and make it his first business to order the mare four quart of oat .
His second duty , of course , be to impart Mr. Higginbotham 's catastrophe to the hostler .
He deem it advisable , however , not to be too positive a to the date of the direful fact , and also to be uncertain whether it be perpetrate by an Irishman and a mulatto or by the son of Erin alone .
Neither do he profess to relate it on his own authority or that of any one person , but mention it a a report generally diffuse .
The story run through the town like fire among girdled tree , and become so much the universal talk that nobody could tell whence it have originate .
Mr. Higginbotham be as well know at Parker 's Falls a any citizen of the place , be part-owner of the slitting-mill and a considerable stockholder in the cotton-factories .
The inhabitant felt their own prosperity interested in his fate .
Such be the excitement that the Parker 's Falls Gazette anticipate it regular day of publication , and come out with half a form of blank paper and a column of double pica emphasize with capital and head `` HORRID MURDER OF MR. HIGGINBOTHAM ! ''
Among other dreadful detail , the printed account describe the mark of the cord round the dead man 's neck and state the number of thousand dollar of which he have be rob ; there be much pathos , also , about the affliction of his niece , who have go from one fainting-fit to another ever since her uncle be find hang on the St. Michael 's pear tree with his pocket inside out .
The village poet likewise commemorate the young lady 's grief in seventeen stanza of a ballad .
The selectman hold a meeting , and in consideration of Mr. Higginbotham 's claim on the town determine to issue handbill offer a reward of five hundred dollar for the apprehension of his murderer and the recovery of the stolen property .
Meanwhile , the whole population of Parker 's Falls , consist of shopkeeper , mistress of boarding-houses , factory-girls , mill-men and schoolboy , rush into the street and keep up such a terrible loquacity a more than compensate for the silence of the cotton-machines , which refrain from their usual din out of respect to the decease .
Had Mr. Higginbotham care about posthumous renown , his untimely ghost would have exult in this tumult .
Our friend Dominicus in his vanity of heart forget his intended precaution , and , mount on the town-pump , announce himself a the bearer of the authentic intelligence which have cause so wonderful a sensation .
He immediately become the great man of the moment , and have just begin a new edition of the narrative with a voice like a field-preacher when the mail-stage drove into the village street .
It have travel all night , and must have shift horse at Kimballton at three in the morning .
`` Now we shall hear all the particular ! ''
shout the crowd .
The coach rumble up to the piazza of the tavern follow by a thousand people ; for if any man have be mind his own business till then , he now leave it at six and seven to hear the news .
The pedler , foremost in the race , discover two passenger , both of whom have be startle from a comfortable nap to find themselves in the centre of a mob .
Every man assail them with separate question , all propound at once , the couple be struck speechless , though one be a lawyer and the other a young lady .
`` Mr. Higginbotham !
Mr. Higginbotham !
Tell u the particular about old Mr. Higginbotham ! ''
bawl the mob .
`` What be the coroner 's verdict ?
Are the murderer apprehend ?
Is Mr. Higginbotham 's niece come out of her fainting-fits ?
Mr. Higginbotham !
Mr. Higginbotham ! ''
The coachman say not a word except to swear awfully at the hostler for not bring him a fresh team of horse .
The lawyer inside have generally his wit about him even when asleep ; the first thing he do after learn the cause of the excitement be to produce a large red pocketbook .
Meantime , Dominicus Pike , be an extremely polite young man , and also suspect that a female tongue would tell the story as glibly a a lawyer 's , have hand the lady out of the coach .
She be a fine , smart girl , now wide awake and bright a a button , and have such a sweet , pretty mouth that Dominicus would almost a lief have hear a love-tale from it a a tale of murder .
`` Gentlemen and lady , '' say the lawyer to the shopkeeper , the mill-men and the factory-girls , `` I can assure you that some unaccountable mistake -- or , more probably , a wilful falsehood maliciously contrive to injure Mr. Higginbotham 's credit -- have excite this singular uproar .
We pass through Kimballton at three o'clock this morning , and most certainly should have be inform of the murder have any be perpetrate .
But I have proof nearly as strong a Mr. Higginbotham 's own oral testimony in the negative .
Here be a note relate to a suit of his in the Connecticut court which be deliver me from that gentleman himself .
I find it date at ten o'clock last evening . ''
So say , the lawyer , exhibit the date and signature of the note , which irrefragably prove either that this perverse Mr. Higginbotham be alive when he write it , or , a some deem the more probable case of two doubtful one , that he be so absorbed in worldly business a to continue to transact it even after his death .
But unexpected evidence be forthcoming .
The young lady , after listen to the pedler 's explanation , merely seize a moment to smooth her gown and put her curl in order , and then appear at the tavern door , make a modest signal to be hear .
`` Good people , '' say she , `` I be Mr. Higginbotham 's niece . ''
A wondering murmur pass through the crowd on behold her so rosy and bright -- that same unhappy niece whom they have suppose , on the authority of the Parker 's Falls Gazette , to be lie at death 's door in a fainting-fit .
But some shrewd fellow have doubt all along whether a young lady would be quite so desperate at the hanging of a rich old uncle .
`` You see , '' continue Miss Higginbotham , with a smile , `` that this strange story be quite unfounded a to myself , and I believe I may affirm it to be equally so in regard to my dear uncle Higginbotham .
He have the kindness to give me a home in his house , though I contribute to my own support by teach a school .
I leave Kimballton this morning to spend the vacation of commencement-week with a friend about five mile from Parker 's Falls .
My generous uncle , when he hear me on the stair , call me to his bedside and give me two dollar and fifty cent to pay my stage-fare , and another dollar for my extra expense .
He then lay his pocketbook under his pillow , shake hand with me , and advise me to take some biscuit in my bag instead of breakfast on the road .
I feel confident , therefore , that I leave my beloved relative alive , and trust that I shall find him so on my return . ''
The young lady courtesied at the close of her speech , which be so sensible and well word , and deliver with such grace and propriety , that everybody think her fit to be preceptress of the best academy in the State .
But a stranger would have suppose that Mr. Higginbotham be an object of abhorrence at Parker 's Falls and that a thanksgiving have be proclaim for his murder , so excessive be the wrath of the inhabitant on learn their mistake .
The mill-men resolve to bestow public honor on Dominicus Pike , only hesitate whether to tar and feather him , ride him on a rail or refresh him with an ablution at the town-pump , on the top of which he have declare himself the bearer of the news .
The selectman , by advice of the lawyer , spoke of prosecute him for a misdemeanor in circulate unfounded report , to the great disturbance of the peace of the commonwealth .
Nothing save Dominicus either from mob-law or a court of justice but an eloquent appeal make by the young lady in his behalf .
Addressing a few word of heartfelt gratitude to his benefactress , he mount the green cart and ride out of town under a discharge of artillery from the schoolboy , who find plenty of ammunition in the neighboring clay-pits and mud-holes .
As he turn his head to exchange a farewell glance with Mr. Higginbotham 's niece a ball of the consistence of hasty-pudding hit him slap in the mouth , give him a most grim aspect .
His whole person be so bespattered with the like filthy missile that he have almost a mind to ride back and supplicate for the threatened ablution at the town-pump ; for , though not mean in kindness , it would now have be a deed of charity .
However , the sun shone bright on poor Dominicus , and the mud -- an emblem of all stain of undeserved opprobrium -- be easily brush off when dry .
Being a funny rogue , his heart soon cheer up ; nor could he refrain from a hearty laugh at the uproar which his story have excite .
The handbill of the selectman would cause the commitment of all the vagabond in the State , the paragraph in the Parker 's Falls Gazette would be reprint from Maine to Florida , and perhaps form an item in the London newspaper , and many a miser would tremble for his moneybag and life on learn the catastrophe of Mr. Higginbotham .
The pedler meditate with much fervor on the charm of the young schoolmistress , and swear that Daniel Webster never speak nor look so like an angel a Miss Higginbotham while defend him from the wrathful populace at Parker 's Falls .
Dominicus be now on the Kimballton turnpike , have all along determine to visit that place , though business have draw , him out of the most direct road from Morristown .
As he approach the scene of the suppose murder he continue to revolve the circumstance in his mind , and be astonish at the aspect which the whole case assume .
Had nothing occur to corroborate the story of the first traveller , it might now have be consider a a hoax ; but the yellow man be evidently acquaint either with the report or the fact , and there be a mystery in his dismayed and guilty look on be abruptly question .
When to this singular combination of incident it be add that the rumor tally exactly with Mr. Higginbotham 's character and habit of life , and that he have an orchard and a St. Michael 's pear tree , near which he always pass at nightfall , the circumstantial evidence appear so strong that Dominicus doubt whether the autograph produce by the lawyer , or even the niece 's direct testimony , ought to be equivalent .
Making cautious inquiry along the road , the pedler far learn that Mr. Higginbotham have in his service an Irishman of doubtful character whom he have hire without a recommendation , on the score of economy .
`` May I be hang myself , '' exclaim Dominicus Pike , aloud , on reach the top of a lonely hill , `` if I 'll believe old Higginbotham be unhanged till I see him with my own eye and hear it from his own mouth .
And , a he 's a real shaver , I 'll have the minister , or some other responsible man , for an endorser . ''
It be grow dusk when he reach the toll-house on Kimballton turnpike , about a quarter of a mile from the village of this name .
His little mare be fast bring him up with a man on horseback who trot through the gate a few rod in advance of him , nod to the toll-gatherer and keep on towards the village .
Dominicus be acquaint with the toll-man , and while make change the usual remark on the weather pass between them .
`` I suppose , '' say the pedler , throw back his whiplash to bring it down like a feather on the mare 's flank , `` you have not see anything of old Mr. Higginbotham within a day or two ? ''
`` Yes , '' answer the toll-gatherer ; `` he pass the gate just before you drive up , and yonder he rid now , if you can see him through the dusk .
He 's be to Woodfield this afternoon , attend a sheriff 's sale there .
The old man generally shake hand and have a little chat with me , but to-night he nod , a if to say , ` Charge my toll , ' and jog on ; for , wherever he go , he must always be at home by eight o'clock . ''
`` So they tell me , '' say Dominicus .
`` I never saw a man look so yellow and thin a the squire do , '' continue the toll-gatherer .
`` Says I to myself tonight , ` He 's more like a ghost or an old mummy than good flesh and blood . ' ''
The pedler strain his eye through the twilight , and could just discern the horseman now far ahead on the village road .
He seem to recognize the rear of Mr. Higginbotham , but through the evening shadow and amid the dust from the horse 's foot the figure appear dim and unsubstantial , a if the shape of the mysterious old man be faintly mould of darkness and gray light .
Dominicus shiver .
`` Mr. Higginbotham have come back from the other world by way of the Kimballton turnpike , '' think he .
He shake the rein and ride forward , keep about the same distance in the rear of the gray old shadow till the latter be conceal by a bend of the road .
On reach this point the pedler no longer saw the man on horseback , but find himself at the head of the village street , not far from a number of store and two tavern cluster round the meeting-house steeple .
On his left be a stone wall and a gate , the boundary of a wood-lot beyond which lay an orchard , far still a mowing-field , and last of all a house .
These be the premise of Mr. Higginbotham , whose dwell stand beside the old highway , but have be leave in the background by the Kimballton turnpike .
Dominicus know the place , and the little mare stop short by instinct , for he be not conscious of tighten the rein .
`` For the soul of me , I can not get by this gate ! ''
say he , tremble .
`` I never shall be my own man again till I see whether Mr. Higginbotham be hang on the St. Michael 's pear tree . ''
He leap from the cart , give the rein a turn round the gate-post , and run along the green path of the wood-lot a if Old Nick be chase behind .
Just then the village clock toll eight , and a each deep stroke fell Dominicus give a fresh bound and fly fast than before , till , dim in the solitary centre of the orchard , he saw the fated pear tree .
One great branch stretch from the old contorted trunk across the path and throw the dark shadow on that one spot .
But something seem to struggle beneath the branch .
The pedler have never pretend to more courage than befit a man of peaceable occupation , nor could he account for his valor on this awful emergency .
Certain it be , however , that he rush forward , prostrate a sturdy Irishman with the butt-end of his whip , and find -- not , indeed , hang on the St. Michael 's pear tree , but tremble beneath it with a halter round his neck -- the old identical Mr. Higginbotham .
`` Mr. Higginbotham , '' say Dominicus , tremulously , `` you 're an honest man , and I 'll take your word for it .
Have you be hang , or not ? ''
If the riddle be not already guess , a few word will explain the simple machinery by which this `` coming event '' be make to cast it `` shadow before . ''
Three men have plot the robbery and murder of Mr. Higginbotham ; two of them successively lose courage and flee , each delay the crime one night by their disappearance ; the third be in the act of perpetration , when a champion , blindly obey the call of fate , like the hero of old romance , appear in the person of Dominicus Pike .
It only remain to say that Mr. Higginbotham take the pedler into high favor , sanction his address to the pretty schoolmistress and settle his whole property on their child , allow themselves the interest .
In due time the old gentleman cap the climax of his favor by die a Christian death in bed ; since which melancholy event , Dominicus Pike have remove from Kimballton and establish a large tobacco-manufactory in my native village .
LITTLE ANNIE 'S RAMBLE .
Ding-dong !
Ding-dong !
Ding-dong !
The town-crier have ring his bell at a distant corner , and little Annie stand on her father 's doorstep try to hear what the man with the loud voice be talk about .
Let me listen too .
Oh , he be tell the people that an elephant and a lion and a royal tiger and a horse with horn , and other strange beast from foreign country , have come to town and will receive all visitor who choose to wait upon them .
Perhaps little Annie would like to go ?
Yes , and I can see that the pretty child be weary of this wide and pleasant street with the green tree fling their shade across the quiet sunshine and the pavement and the sidewalk all as clean a if the housemaid have just sweep them with her broom .
She feel that impulse to go stroll away -- that longing after the mystery of the great world -- which many child feel , and which I felt in my childhood .
Little Annie shall take a ramble with me .
See !
I do but hold out my hand , and like some bright bird in the sunny air , with her blue silk frock flutter upward from her white pantalets , she come bound on tiptoe across the street .
Smooth back your brown curl , Annie , and let me tie on your bonnet , and we will set forth .
What a strange couple to go on their ramble together !
One walk in black attire , with a measured step and a heavy brow and his thoughtful eye bend down , while the gay little girl trip lightly along a if she be force to keep hold of my hand l her foot should dance away from the earth .
Yet there be sympathy between u .
If I pride myself on anything , it be because I have a smile that child love ; and , on the other hand , there be few grown lady that could entice me from the side of little Annie , for I delight to let my mind go hand in hand with the mind of a sinless child .
So come , Annie ; but if I moralize a we go , do not listen to me : only look about you and be merry .
Now we turn the corner .
Here be hack with two horse and stage-coaches with four thunder to meet each other , and truck and cart move at a slow pace , be heavily lade with barrel from the wharf ; and here be rattle gig which perhaps will be smash to piece before our eye .
Hitherward , also , come a man trundle a wheelbarrow along the pavement .
Is not little Annie afraid of such a tumult ?
No ; she do not even shrink close to my side , but pass on with fearless confidence , a happy child amidst a great throng of grown people who pay the same reverence to her infancy that they would to extreme old age .
Nobody jostle her : all turn aside to make way for little Annie ; and , what be most singular , she appear conscious of her claim to such respect .
Now her eye brighten with pleasure .
A street-musician have seat himself on the step of yonder church and pours forth his strain to the busy town -- a melody that have go astray among the tramp of footstep , the buzz of voice and the war of pass wheel .
Who heed the poor organ-grinder ?
None but myself and little Annie , whose foot begin to move in unison with the lively tune , a if she be loth that music should be waste without a dance .
But where would Annie find a partner ?
Some have the gout in their toe or the rheumatism in their joint ; some be stiff with age , some feeble with disease ; some be so lean that their bone would rattle , and others of such ponderous size that their agility would crack the flagstone ; but many , many have leaden foot because their heart be far heavy than lead .
It be a sad thought that I have chance upon .
What a company of dancer should we be !
For I too be a gentleman of sober footstep , and therefore , little Annie , let u walk sedately on .
It be a question with me whether this giddy child or my sage self have most pleasure in look at the shop-windows .
We love the silk of sunny hue that glow within the darkened premise of the spruce dry-goods men ; we be pleasantly dazzle by the burnish silver and the chased gold , the ring of wedlock and the costly love-ornaments , glisten at the window of the jeweller ; but Annie , more than I , seek for a glimpse of her passing figure in the dusty looking-glasses at the hardware-stores .
All that be bright and gay attracts u both .
Here be a shop to which the recollection of my boyhood as well a present partiality give a peculiar magic .
How delightful to let the fancy revel on the dainty of a confectioner -- those pie with such white and flaky paste , their content be a mystery , whether rich mince with whole plum intermix , or piquant apple delicately rose-flavored ; those cake , heart-shaped or round , pile in a lofty pyramid ; those sweet little circlet sweetly name kiss ; those dark majestic mass fit to be bridal-loaves at the wedding of an heiress , mountain in size , their summit deeply snow-covered with sugar !
Then the mighty treasure of sugarplum , white and crimson and yellow , in large glass vas , and candy of all variety , and those little cockle -- or whatever they be call -- much prize by child for their sweetness , and more for the motto which they enclose , by love-sick maid and bachelor !
Oh , my mouth water , little Annie , and so doth yours , but we will not be tempt except to an imaginary feast ; so let u hasten onward devour the vision of a plum-cake .
Here be pleasure , a some people would say , of a more exalted kind , in the window of a bookseller .
Is Annie a literary lady ?
Yes ; she be deeply read in Peter Parley 's tome and have an increase love for fairy-tales , though seldom meet with nowadays , and she will subscribe next year to the Juvenile Miscellany .
But , truth to tell , she be apt to turn away from the print page and keep gazing at the pretty picture , such a the gay-colored one which make this shop-window the continual loitering-place of child .
What would Annie think if , in the book which I mean to send her on New Year 's day , she should find her sweet little self bind up in silk or morocco with gilt edge , there to remain till she become a woman grow with child of her own to read about their mother 's childhood ?
That would be very queer .
Little Annie be weary of picture and pull me onward by the hand , till suddenly we pause at the most wondrous shop in all the town .
Oh , my star !
Is this a toyshop , or be it fairy-land ?
For here be gilded chariot in which the king and queen of the fairy might ride side by side , while their courtier on these small horse should gallop in triumphal procession before and behind the royal pair .
Here , too , be dish of chinaware fit to be the dining-set of those same princely personage when they make a regal banquet in the stately hall of their palace -- full five foot high -- and behold their noble feast adown the long perspective of the table .
Betwixt the king and queen should sit my little Annie , the pretty fairy of them all .
Here stand a turbaned Turk threaten u with his sabre , like an ugly heathen a he be , and next a Chinese mandarin who nod his head at Annie and myself .
Here we may review a whole army of horse and foot in red-and-blue uniform , with drum , fife , trumpet , and all kind of noiseless music ; they have halt on the shelf of this window after their weary march from Liliput .
But what care Annie for soldier ?
No conquer queen be she -- neither a Semiramis nor a Catharine ; her whole heart be set upon that doll who gaze at u with such a fashionable stare .
This be the little girl 's true plaything .
Though make of wood , a doll be a visionary and ethereal personage endow by childish fancy with a peculiar life ; the mimic lady be a heroine of romance , an actor and a sufferer in a thousand shadowy scene , the chief inhabitant of that wild world with which child ape the real one .
Little Annie do not understand what I be say , but look wishfully at the proud lady in the window .
We will invite her home with u a we return .
-- Meantime , good-bye , Dame Doll !
A toy yourself , you look forth from your window upon many lady that be also toys , though they walk and speak , and upon a crowd in pursuit of toy , though they wear grave visage .
Oh , with your never-closing eye , have you but an intellect to moralize on all that flit before them , what a wise doll would you be !
-- Come , little Annie , we shall find toys enough , go where we may .
Now we elbow our way among the throng again .
It be curious in the most crowded part of a town to meet with living creature that have their birthplace in some far solitude , but have acquire a second nature in the wilderness of men .
Look up , Annie , at that canary-bird hang out of the window in his cage .
Poor little fellow !
His golden feather be all tarnish in this smoky sunshine ; he would have glisten twice as brightly among the summer island , but still he have become a citizen in all his taste and habit , and would not sing half so well without the uproar that drown his music .
What a pity that he do not know how miserable he be !
There be a parrot , too , call out , `` Pretty Poll !
Pretty Poll ! ''
a we pass by .
Foolish bird , to be talk about her prettiness to stranger , especially a she be not a pretty Poll , though gaudily dress in green and yellow !
If she have say `` Pretty Annie ! ''
there would have be some sense in it .
See that gray squirrel at the door of the fruit-shop whirling round and round so merrily within his wire wheel !
Being condemn to the treadmill , he make it an amusement .
Admirable philosophy !
Here come a big , rough dog -- a countryman 's dog -- in search of his master , smell at everybody 's heel and touch little Annie 's hand with his cold nose , but hurry away , though she would fain have pat him .
-- Success to your search , Fidelity !
-- And there sit a great yellow cat upon a window-sill , a very corpulent and comfortable cat , gaze at this transitory world with owl 's eye , and make pithy comment , doubtless , or what appear such , to the silly beast .
-- Oh , sage pus , make room for me beside you , and we will be a pair of philosopher .
Here we see something to remind u of the town-crier and his ding-dong-bell .
Look !
look at that great cloth spread out in the air , picture all over with wild beast , a if they have meet together to choose a king , accord to their custom in the day of sop .
But they be choose neither a king nor a President , else we should hear a most horrible snarling !
They have come from the deep wood and the wild mountain and the desert sand and the polar snow only to do homage to my little Annie .
As we enter among them the great elephant make u a bow in the best style of elephantine courtesy , bend lowly down his mountain bulk , with trunk abase and leg thrust out behind .
Annie return the salute , much to the gratification of the elephant , who be certainly the best-bred monster in the caravan .
The lion and the lioness be busy with two beef-bones .
The royal tiger , the beautiful , the untamable , keep pace his narrow cage with a haughty step , unmindful of the spectator or recall the fierce deed of his former life , when he be wont to leap forth upon such inferior animal from the jungle of Bengal .
Here we see the very same wolf -- do not go near him , Annie !
-- the selfsame wolf that devour little Red Riding-Hood and her grandmother .
In the next cage a hyena from Egypt who have doubtless howl around the pyramid and a black bear from our own forest be fellow-prisoners and most excellent friend .
Are there any two living creature who have so few sympathy that they can not possibly be friend ?
Here sit a great white bear whom common observer would call a very stupid beast , though I perceive him to be only absorb in contemplation ; he be think of his voyage on an iceberg , and of his comfortable home in the vicinity of the north pole , and of the little cubs whom he leave roll in the eternal snow .
In fact , he be a bear of sentiment .
But oh those unsentimental monkey !
The ugly , grin , ape , chatter , ill-natured , mischievous and queer little brute !
Annie do not love the monkey ; their ugliness shock her pure , instinctive delicacy of taste and make her mind unquiet because it bear a wild and dark resemblance to humanity .
But here be a little pony just big enough for Annie to ride , and round and round he gallop in a circle , keep time with his trample hoof to a band of music .
And here , with a laced coat and a cocked hat , and a riding-whip in his hand -- here come a little gentleman small enough to be king of the fairy and ugly enough to be king of the gnome , and take a fly leap into the saddle .
Merrily , merrily play the music , and merrily gallop the pony , and merrily rid the little old gentleman .
-- Come , Annie , into the street again ; perchance we may see monkey on horseback there .
Mercy on u !
What a noisy world we quiet people live in !
Did Annie ever read the cry of London city ?
With what lusty lung doth yonder man proclaim that his wheelbarrow be full of lobster !
Here come another , mount on a cart and blow a hoarse and dreadful blast from a tin horn , as much a to say , `` Fresh fish ! ''
And hark !
a voice on high , like that of a muezzin from the summit of a mosque , announce that some chimney-sweeper have emerge from smoke and soot and darksome cavern into the upper air .
What care the world for that ?
But , well-a-day , we hear a shrill voice of affliction -- the scream of a little child , rise louder with every repetition of that smart , sharp , slap sound produce by an open hand on tender flesh .
Annie sympathize , though without experience of such direful woe .
Lo !
the town-crier again , with some new secret for the public ear .
Will he tell u of an auction , or of a lost pocket-book or a show of beautiful wax figure , or of some monstrous beast more horrible than any in the caravan ?
I guess the latter .
See how he uplift the bell in his right hand and shake it slowly at first , then with a hurried motion , till the clapper seem to strike both side at once , and the sound be scattered forth in quick succession far and near .
Ding-dong !
Ding-dong !
Ding-dong !
Now he raise his clear loud voice above all the din of the town .
It drown the buzzing talk of many tongue and draw each man 's mind from his own business ; it roll up and down the echoing street , and ascend to the hushed chamber of the sick , and penetrate downward to the cellar kitchen where the hot cook turn from the fire to listen .
Who of all that address the public ear , whether in church or court-house or hall of state , have such an attentive audience a the town-crier !
What saith the people 's orator ?
`` Strayed from her home , a LITTLE GIRL of five year old , in a blue silk frock and white pantalets , with brown curl hair and hazel eye .
Whoever will bring her back to her afflicted mother -- '' Stop , stop , town-crier !
The lost be find .
-- Oh , my pretty Annie , we forget to tell your mother of our ramble , and she be in despair and have send the town-crier to bellow up and down the street , affright old and young , for the loss of a little girl who have not once let go my hand ?
Well , let u hasten homeward ; and a we go forget not to thank Heaven , my Annie , that after wander a little way into the world you may return at the first summons with an untainted and unwearied heart , and be a happy child again .
But I have go too far astray for the town-crier to call me back .
Sweet have be the charm of childhood on my spirit throughout my ramble with little Annie .
Say not that it have be a waste of precious moment , an idle matter , a babble of childish talk and a reverie of childish imagination about topic unworthy of a grown man 's notice .
Has it be merely this ?
Not so -- not so .
They be not truly wise who would affirm it .
As the pure breath of child revive the life of age men , so be our moral nature revive by their free and simple thought , their native feeling , their airy mirth for little cause or none , their grief soon rouse and soon allay .
Their influence on u be at least reciprocal with ours on them .
When our infancy be almost forget and our boyhood long depart , though it seem but a yesterday , when life settle darkly down upon u and we doubt whether to call ourselves young any more , -- then it be good to steal away from the society of beard men , and even of gentler woman , and spend an hour or two with child .
After drink from those fountain of still fresh existence we shall return into the crowd , a I do now , to struggle onward and do our part in life -- perhaps as fervently a ever , but for a time with a kinder and pure heart and a spirit more lightly wise .
All this by thy sweet magic , dear little Annie !
WAKEFIELD .
In some old magazine or newspaper I recollect a story , tell a truth , of a man -- let u call him Wakefield -- who absent himself for a long time from his wife .
The fact , thus abstractedly state , be not very uncommon , nor , without a proper distinction of circumstance , to be condemn either a naughty or nonsensical .
Howbeit , this , though far from the most aggravated , be perhaps the strange instance on record of marital delinquency , and , moreover , a remarkable a freak a may be find in the whole list of human oddity .
The wedded couple live in London .
The man , under pretence of go a journey , take lodging in the next street to his own house , and there , unheard of by his wife or friend and without the shadow of a reason for such self-banishment , dwelt upward of twenty year .
During that period he behold his home every day , and frequently the forlorn Mrs. Wakefield .
And after so great a gap in his matrimonial felicity -- when his death be reckon certain , his estate settle , his name dismiss from memory and his wife long , long ago resign to her autumnal widowhood -- he enter the door one evening quietly a from a day 's absence , and become a loving spouse till death .
This outline be all that I remember .
But the incident , though of the pure originality , unexampled , and probably never to be repeat , be one , I think , which appeal to the general sympathy of mankind .
We know , each for himself , that none of u would perpetrate such a folly , yet feel a if some other might .
To my own contemplation , at least , it have often recur , always excite wonder , but with a sense that the story must be true and a conception of it hero 's character .
Whenever any subject so forcibly affect the mind , time be well spend in thinking of it .
If the reader choose , let him do his own meditation ; or if he prefer to ramble with me through the twenty year of Wakefield 's vagary , I bid him welcome , trust that there will be a pervading spirit and a moral , even should we fail to find them , do up neatly and condense into the final sentence .
Thought have always it efficacy and every striking incident it moral .
What sort of a man be Wakefield ?
We be free to shape out our own idea and call it by his name .
He be now in the meridian of life ; his matrimonial affection , never violent , be sober into a calm , habitual sentiment ; of all husband , he be likely to be the most constant , because a certain sluggishness would keep his heart at rest wherever it might be place .
He be intellectual , but not actively so ; his mind occupy itself in long and lazy musing that tend to no purpose or have not vigor to attain it ; his thought be seldom so energetic a to seize hold of word .
Imagination , in the proper meaning of the term , make no part of Wakefield 's gift .
With a cold but not deprave nor wandering heart , and a mind never feverish with riotous thought nor perplexed with originality , who could have anticipate that our friend would entitle himself to a foremost place among the doer of eccentric deed ?
Had his acquaintance be ask who be the man in London the sure to perform nothing to-day which should be remember on the morrow , they would have think of Wakefield .
Only the wife of his bosom might have hesitate .
She , without have analyze his character , be partly aware of a quiet selfishness that have rust into his inactive mind ; of a peculiar sort of vanity , the most uneasy attribute about him ; of a disposition to craft which have seldom produce more positive effect than the keep of petty secret hardly worth revealing ; and , lastly , of what she call a little strangeness sometimes in the good man .
This latter quality be indefinable , and perhaps non-existent .
Let u now imagine Wakefield bidding adieu to his wife .
It be the dusk of an October evening .
His equipment be a drab greatcoat , a hat cover with an oil-cloth , top-boots , an umbrella in one hand and a small portmanteau in the other .
He have inform Mrs. Wakefield that he be to take the night-coach into the country .
She would fain inquire the length of his journey , it object and the probable time of his return , but , indulgent to his harmless love of mystery , interrogate him only by a look .
He tell her not to expect him positively by the return-coach nor to be alarm should he tarry three or four day , but , at all event , to look for him at supper on Friday evening .
Wakefield , himself , be it consider , have no suspicion of what be before him .
He hold out his hand ; she give her own and meet his part kiss in the matter-of-course way of a ten year ' matrimony , and forth go the middle-aged Mr. Wakefield , almost resolve to perplex his good lady by a whole week 's absence .
After the door have close behind him , she perceive it thrust partly open and a vision of her husband 's face through the aperture , smile on her and go in a moment .
For the time this little incident be dismiss without a thought , but long afterward , when she have be more year a widow than a wife , that smile recurs and flicker across all her reminiscence of Wakefield 's visage .
In her many musing she surround the original smile with a multitude of fantasy which make it strange and awful ; a , for instance , if she imagine him in a coffin , that part look be freeze on his pale feature ; or if she dream of him in heaven , still his blessed spirit wear a quiet and crafty smile .
Yet for it sake , when all others have give him up for dead , she sometimes doubt whether she be a widow .
But our business be with the husband .
We must hurry after him along the street ere he lose his individuality and melt into the great mass of London life .
It would be vain search for him there .
Let u follow close at his heel , therefore , until , after several superfluous turn and doubling , we find him comfortably establish by the fireside of a small apartment previously bespeak .
He be in the next street to his own and at his journey 's end .
He can scarcely trust his good-fortune in have get thither unperceived , recollect that at one time he be delay by the throng in the very focus of a lighted lantern , and again there be footstep that seem to tread behind his own , distinct from the multitudinous tramp around him , and anon he hear a voice shout afar and fancy that it call his name .
Doubtless a dozen busybody have be watch him and tell his wife the whole affair .
Poor Wakefield !
little knowest thou thine own insignificance in this great world .
No mortal eye but mine have trace thee .
Go quietly to thy bed , foolish man , and on the morrow , if thou wilt be wise , get thee home to good Mrs. Wakefield and tell her the truth .
Remove not thyself even for a little week from thy place in her chaste bosom .
Were she for a single moment to deem thee dead or lose or lastingly divide from her , thou wouldst be woefully conscious of a change in thy true wife for ever after .
It be perilous to make a chasm in human affection -- not that they gape so long and wide , but so quickly close again .
Almost repenting of his frolic , or whatever it may be term , Wakefield lie down betimes , and , start from his first nap , spread forth his arm into the wide and solitary waste of the unaccustomed bed , `` No , '' think he , gather the bedclothes about him ; `` I will not sleep alone another night . ''
In the morning he rise early than usual and set himself to consider what he really mean to do .
Such be his loose and ramble mode of thought that he have take this very singular step with the consciousness of a purpose , indeed , but without be able to define it sufficiently for his own contemplation .
The vagueness of the project and the convulsive effort with which he plunge into the execution of it be equally characteristic of a feeble-minded man .
Wakefield sift his idea , however , as minutely a he may , and find himself curious to know the progress of matter at home -- how his exemplary wife will endure her widowhood of a week , and , briefly , how the little sphere of creature and circumstance in which he be a central object will be affect by his removal .
A morbid vanity , therefore , lie near the bottom of the affair .
But how be he to attain his end ?
Not , certainly , by keep close in this comfortable lodging , where , though he sleep and awake in the next street to his home , he be a effectually abroad a if the stage-coach have be whirl him away all night .
Yet should he reappear , the whole project be knock in the head .
His poor brain be hopelessly puzzle with this dilemma , he at length venture out , partly resolve to cross the head of the street and send one hasty glance toward his forsaken domicile .
Habit -- for he be a man of habit -- take him by the hand and guide him , wholly unaware , to his own door , where , just at the critical moment , he be arouse by the scraping of his foot upon the step .
-- Wakefield , whither be you go ?
At that instant his fate be turn on the pivot .
Little dreaming of the doom to which his first backward step devote him , he hurry away , breathless with agitation hitherto unfelt , and hardly dare turn his head at the distant corner .
Can it be that nobody catch sight of him ?
Will not the whole household -- the decent Mrs. Wakefield , the smart maid-servant and the dirty little footboy -- raise a hue-and-cry through London street in pursuit of their fugitive lord and master ?
Wonderful escape !
He gather courage to pause and look homeward , but be perplex with a sense of change about the familiar edifice such a affect u all when , after a separation of month or year , we again see some hill or lake or work of art with which we be friend of old .
In ordinary case this indescribable impression be cause by the comparison and contrast between our imperfect reminiscence and the reality .
In Wakefield the magic of a single night have work a similar transformation , because in that brief period a great moral change have be effect .
But this be a secret from himself .
Before leave the spot he catch a far and momentary glimpse of his wife pass athwart the front window with her face turn toward the head of the street .
The crafty nincompoop take to his heel , scar with the idea that among a thousand such atom of mortality her eye must have detect him .
Right glad be his heart , though his brain be somewhat dizzy , when he find himself by the coal-fire of his lodging .
So much for the commencement of this long whim-wham .
After the initial conception and the stir up of the man 's sluggish temperament to put it in practice , the whole matter evolve itself in a natural train .
We may suppose him , a the result of deep deliberation , buy a new wig of reddish hair and select sundry garment , in a fashion unlike his customary suit of brown , from a Jew 's old-clothes bag .
It be accomplish : Wakefield be another man .
The new system be now establish , a retrograde movement to the old would be almost as difficult a the step that place him in his unparalleled position .
Furthermore , he be render obstinate by a sulkiness occasionally incident to his temper and bring on at present by the inadequate sensation which he conceive to have be produce in the bosom of Mrs. Wakefield .
He will not go back until she be frighten half to death .
Well , twice or thrice have she pass before his sight , each time with a heavy step , a paler cheek and more anxious brow , and in the third week of his non-appearance he detect a portent of evil enter the house in the guise of an apothecary .
Next day the knocker be muffle .
Toward nightfall come the chariot of a physician and deposit it big-wigged and solemn burden at Wakefield 's door , whence after a quarter of an hour 's visit he emerge , perchance the herald of a funeral .
Dear woman !
will she die ?
By this time Wakefield be excite to something like energy of feeling , but still linger away from his wife 's bedside , plead with his conscience that she must not be disturb at such a juncture .
If aught else restrain him , he do not know it .
In the course of a few week she gradually recovers .
The crisis be over ; her heart be sad , perhaps , but quiet , and , let him return soon or late , it will never be feverish for him again .
Such idea glimmer through the mist of Wakefield 's mind and render him indistinctly conscious that an almost impassable gulf divide his hired apartment from his former home .
`` It be but in the next street , '' he sometimes say .
Fool !
it be in another world .
Hitherto he have put off ' his return from one particular day to another ; henceforward he leave the precise time undetermined -- not to-morrow ; probably next week ; pretty soon .
Poor man !
The dead have nearly as much chance of revisit their earthly home a the self-banished Wakefield .
Would that I have a folio to write , instead of an article of a dozen page !
Then might I exemplify how an influence beyond our control lay it strong hand on every deed which we do and weave it consequence into an iron tissue of necessity .
Wakefield be spellbind .
We must leave him for ten year or so to haunt around his house without once cross the threshold , and to be faithful to his wife with all the affection of which his heart be capable , while he be slowly fade out of hers .
Long since , it must be remark , he have lose the perception of singularity in his conduct .
Now for a scene .
Amid the throng of a London street we distinguish a man , now wax elderly , with few characteristic to attract careless observer , yet bear in his whole aspect the handwriting of no common fate for such a have the skill to read it .
He be meagre ; his low and narrow forehead be deeply wrinkle ; his eye , small and lustreless , sometimes wander apprehensively about him , but oftener seem to look inward .
He bend his head and move with an indescribable obliquity of gait , a if unwilling to display his full front to the world .
Watch him long enough to see what we have describe , and you will allow that circumstance -- which often produce remarkable men from Nature 's ordinary handiwork -- have produce one such here .
Next , leave him to sidle along the footwalk , cast your eye in the opposite direction , where a portly female considerably in the wane of life , with a prayer-book in her hand , be proceed to yonder church .
She have the placid mien of settle widowhood .
Her regret have either die away or have become so essential to her heart that they would be poorly exchange for joy .
Just a the lean man and well-conditioned woman be pass a slight obstruction occurs and bring these two figure directly in contact .
Their hand touch ; the pressure of the crowd force her bosom against his shoulder ; they stand face to face , star into each other 's eye .
After a ten year ' separation thus Wakefield meet his wife .
The throng eddy away and carry them asunder .
The sober widow , resume her former pace , proceeds to church , but pause in the portal and throw a perplexed glance along the street .
She pass in , however , open her prayer-book a she go .
And the man ?
With so wild a face that busy and selfish London stand to gaze after him he hurry to his lodging , bolt the door and throw himself upon the bed .
The latent feeling of year break out ; his feeble mind acquire a brief energy from their strength ; all the miserable strangeness of his life be reveal to him at a glance , and he cry out passionately , `` Wakefield , Wakefield !
You be mad ! ''
Perhaps he be so .
The singularity of his situation must have so moulded him to itself that , consider in regard to his fellow-creatures and the business of life , he could not be say to possess his right mind .
He have contrive -- or , rather , he have happen -- to dissever himself from the world , to vanish , to give up his place and privilege with live men without be admit among the dead .
The life of a hermit be nowise parallel to his .
He be in the bustle of the city a of old , but the crowd sweep by and saw him not ; he be , we may figuratively say , always beside his wife and at his hearth , yet must never feel the warmth of the one nor the affection of the other .
It be Wakefield 's unprecedented fate to retain his original share of human sympathy and to be still involve in human interest , while he have lose his reciprocal influence on them .
It would be a most curious speculation to trace out the effect of such circumstance on his heart and intellect separately and in unison .
Yet , change a he be , he would seldom be conscious of it , but deem himself the same man a ever ; glimpse of the truth , indeed , would come , but only for the moment , and still he would keep say , `` I shall soon go back , '' nor reflect that he have be say so for twenty year .
I conceive , also , that these twenty year would appear in the retrospect scarcely longer than the week to which Wakefield have at first limit his absence .
He would look on the affair a no more than an interlude in the main business of his life .
When , after a little while more , he should deem it time to re-enter his parlor , his wife would clap her hand for joy on behold the middle-aged Mr. Wakefield .
Alas , what a mistake !
Would Time but await the close of our favorite folly , we should be young men -- all of u -- and till Doomsday .
One evening , in the twentieth year since he vanish , Wakefield be take his customary walk toward the dwelling which he still call his own .
It be a gusty night of autumn , with frequent shower that patter down upon the pavement and be go before a man can put up his umbrella .
Pausing near the house , Wakefield discern through the parlor-windows of the second floor the red glow and the glimmer and fitful flash of a comfortable fire .
On the ceiling appear a grotesque shadow of good Mrs. Wakefield .
The cap , the nose and chin and the broad waist form an admirable caricature , which dance , moreover , with the up-flickering and down-sinking blaze almost too merrily for the shade of an elderly widow .
At this instant a shower chance to fall , and be drive by the unmannerly gust full into Wakefield 's face and bosom .
He be quite penetrate with it autumnal chill .
Shall he stand wet and shiver here , when his own hearth have a good fire to warm him and his own wife will run to fetch the gray coat and small-clothes which doubtless she have keep carefully in the closet of their bedchamber ?
No ; Wakefield be no such fool .
He ascend the step -- heavily , for twenty year have stiffen his leg since he come down , but he know it not .
-- Stay , Wakefield !
Would you go to the sole home that be leave you ?
Then step into your grave .
-- The door open .
As he pass in we have a parting glimpse of his visage , and recognize the crafty smile which be the precursor of the little joke that he have ever since be play off at his wife 's expense .
How unmercifully have he quiz the poor woman !
Well , a good night 's rest to Wakefield !
This happy event -- suppose it to be such -- could only have occur at an unpremeditated moment .
We will not follow our friend across the threshold .
He have leave u much food for thought , a portion of which shall lend it wisdom to a moral and be shape into a figure .
Amid the seem confusion of our mysterious world individual be so nicely adjust to a system , and system to one another and to a whole , that by step aside for a moment a man expose himself to a fearful risk of lose his place for ever .
Like Wakefield , he may become , a it be , the outcast of the universe .
A RILL FROM THE TOWN-PUMP .
-LRB- SCENE , the corner of two principal street , -LSB- 1 -RSB- the TOWN-PUMP talk through it nose . -RRB-
Noon by the north clock !
Noon by the east !
High noon , too , by these hot sunbeam , which full , scarcely aslope , upon my head and almost make the water bubble and smoke in the trough under my nose .
Truly , we public character have a tough time of it !
And among all the town-officers choose at March meeting , where be he that sustain for a single year the burden of such manifold duty a be impose in perpetuity upon the town-pump ?
The title of `` town-treasurer '' be rightfully mine , a guardian of the best treasure that the town have .
The overseer of the poor ought to make me their chairman , since I provide bountifully for the pauper without expense to him that pay tax .
I be at the head of the fire department and one of the physician to the board of health .
As a keeper of the peace all water-drinkers will confess me equal to the constable .
I perform some of the duty of the town-clerk by promulgate public notice when they be post on my front .
To speak within bound , I be the chief person of the municipality , and exhibit , moreover , an admirable pattern to my brother-officers by the cool , steady , upright , downright and impartial discharge of my business and the constancy with which I stand to my post .
Summer or winter , nobody seek me in vain , for all day long I be see at the busy corner , just above the market , stretch out my arm to rich and poor alike , and at night I hold a lantern over my head both to show where I be and keep people out of the gutter .
At this sultry noontide I be cupbearer to the parched populace , for whose benefit an iron goblet be chain to my waist .
Like a dramseller on the mall at muster-day , I cry aloud to all and sundry in my plainest accent and at the very tiptop of my voice .
-LSB- Footnote 1 : Essex and Washington street , Salem . -RSB-
Here it be , gentleman !
Here be the good liquor !
Walk up , walk up , gentleman !
Walk up , walk up !
Here be the superior stuff !
Here be the unadulterated ale of Father Adam -- good than Cognac , Hollands , Jamaica , strong beer or wine of any price ; here it be by the hogshead or the single glass , and not a cent to pay !
Walk up , gentleman , walk up , and help yourselves !
It be a pity if all this outcry should draw no customer .
Here they come .
-- A hot day , gentleman !
Quaff and away again , so a to keep yourselves in a nice cool sweat .
-- You , my friend , will need another cupful to wash the dust out of your throat , if it be a thick there a it be on your cowhide shoe .
I see that you have trudge half a score of mile to-day , and like a wise man have pass by the tavern and stop at the run brook and well-curbs .
Otherwise , betwixt heat without and fire within , you would have be burn to a cinder or melt down to nothing at all , in the fashion of a jelly-fish .
Drink and make room for that other fellow , who seek my aid to quench the fiery fever of last night 's potation , which he drain from no cup of mine .
-- Welcome , most rubicund sir !
You and I have be great stranger hitherto ; nor , to confess the truth , will my nose be anxious for a close intimacy till the fume of your breath be a little less potent .
Mercy on you , man !
the water absolutely hiss down your red-hot gullet and be convert quite to steam in the miniature Tophet which you mistake for a stomach .
Fill again , and tell me , on the word of an honest toper , do you ever , in cellar , tavern , or any kind of a dram-shop , spend the price of your child 's food for a swig half so delicious ?
Now , for the first time these ten year , you know the flavor of cold water .
Good-bye ; and whenever you be thirsty , remember that I keep a constant supply at the old stand .
-- Who next ?
-- Oh , my little friend , you be let loose from school and come hither to scrub your bloom face and drown the memory of certain tap of the ferule , and other schoolboy trouble , in a draught from the town-pump ?
Take it , pure a the current of your young life .
Take it , and may your heart and tongue never be scorch with a fiercer thirst than now !
There , my dear child !
put down the cup and yield your place to this elderly gentleman who tread so tenderly over the paving-stones that I suspect he be afraid of break them .
What !
he limp by without so much a thank me , a if my hospitable offer be mean only for people who have no wine-cellars .
-- Well , well , sir , no harm do , I hope ?
Go draw the cork , tip the decanter ; but when your great toe shall set you a-roaring , it will be no affair of mine .
If gentleman love the pleasant titillation of the gout , it be all one to the town-pump .
This thirsty dog with his red tongue loll out do not scorn my hospitality , but stand on his hind leg and lap eagerly out of the trough .
See how lightly he caper away again !
-- Jowler , do your worship ever have the gout ?
Are you all satisfy ?
Then wipe your mouth , my good friend , and while my spout have a moment 's leisure I will delight the town with a few historical remniscences .
In far antiquity , beneath a darksome shadow of venerable bough , a spring bubble out of the leaf-strewn earth in the very spot where you now behold me on the sunny pavement .
The water be a bright and clear and deem as precious a liquid diamond .
The Indian sagamore drank of it from time immemorial till the fatal deluge of the firewater burst upon the red men and sweep their whole race away from the cold fountain .
Endicott and his follower come next , and often kneel down to drink , dip their long beard in the spring .
The rich goblet then be of birch-bark .
Governor Winthrop , after a journey afoot from Boston , drank here out of the hollow of his hand .
The elder Higginson here wet his palm and lay it on the brow of the first town-born child .
For many year it be the watering-place , and , a it be , the washbowl , of the vicinity , whither all decent folk resort to purify their visage and gaze at them afterward -- at least , the pretty maidens do -- in the mirror which it make .
On Sabbath-days , whenever a babe be to be baptize , the sexton fill his basin here and place it on the communion-table of the humble meeting-house , which partly cover the site of yonder stately brick one .
Thus one generation after another be consecrate to Heaven by it water , and cast their waxing and waning shadow into it glassy bosom , and vanish from the earth , a if mortal life be but a flitting image in a fountain .
Finally the fountain vanish also .
Cellars be dig on all side and cart-loads of gravel flung upon it source , whence ooze a turbid stream , form a mud-puddle at the corner of two street .
In the hot month , when it refreshment be most need , the dust fly in cloud over the forgotten birthplace of the water , now their grave .
But in the course of time a town-pump be sink into the source of the ancient spring ; and when the first decayed , another take it place , and then another , and still another , till here stand I , gentleman and lady , to serve you with my iron goblet .
Drink and be refresh .
The water be a pure and cold a that which slake the thirst of the red sagamore beneath the aged bough , though now the gem of the wilderness be treasure under these hot stone , where no shadow fall but from the brick building .
And be it the moral of my story that , a this wasted and long-lost fountain be now know and prize again , so shall the virtue of cold water -- too little value since your father ' day -- be recognize by all .
Your pardon , good people !
I must interrupt my stream of eloquence and spout forth a stream of water to replenish the trough for this teamster and his two yoke of ox , who have come from Topsfield , or somewhere along that way .
No part of my business be pleasant than the watering of cattle .
Look !
how rapidly they lower the water-mark on the side of the trough , till their capacious stomach be moisten with a gallon or two apiece and they can afford time to breathe it in with sigh of calm enjoyment .
Now they roll their quiet eye around the brim of their monstrous drinking-vessel .
An ox be your true toper .
But I perceive , my dear auditor , that you be impatient for the remainder of my discourse .
Impute it , I beseech you , to no defect of modesty if I insist a little long on so fruitful a topic a my own multifarious merit .
It be altogether for your good .
The good you think of me , the good men and woman you will find yourselves .
I shall say nothing of my all-important aid on washing-days , though on that account alone I might call myself the household god of a hundred family .
Far be it from me , also , to hint , my respectable friend , at the show of dirty face which you would present without my pain to keep you clean .
Nor will I remind you how often , when the midnight bell make you tremble for your combustible town , you have flee to the town-pump and find me always at my post firm amid the confusion and ready to drain my vital current in your behalf .
Neither be it worth while to lay much stress on my claim to a medical diploma a the physician whose simple rule of practice be preferable to all the nauseous lore which have find men sick , or leave them so , since the day of Hippocrates .
Let u take a broad view of my beneficial influence on mankind .
No ; these be trifle , compare with the merit which wise men concede to me -- if not in my single self , yet a the representative of a class -- of be the grand reformer of the age .
From my spout , and such spout a mine , must flow the stream that shall cleanse our earth of the vast portion of it crime and anguish which have gush from the fiery fountain of the still .
In this mighty enterprise the cow shall be my great confederate .
Milk and water -- the TOWN-PUMP and the Cow !
Such be the glorious copartnership that shall tear down the distillery and brewhouses , uproot the vineyard , shatter the cider-presses , ruin the tea and coffee trade , and finally monopolize the whole business of quench thirst .
Blessed consummation !
Then Poverty shall pass away from the land , find no hovel so wretched where her squalid form may shelter herself .
Then Disease , for lack of other victim , shall gnaw it own heart and die .
Then Sin , if she do not die , shall lose half her strength .
Until now the frenzy of hereditary fever have rag in the human blood , transmit from sire to son and rekindle in every generation by fresh draught of liquid flame .
When that inward fire shall be extinguish , the heat of passion can not but grow cool , and war -- the drunkenness of nation -- perhaps will cease .
At least , there will be no war of household .
The husband and wife , drink deep of peaceful joy -- a calm bliss of temperate affection -- shall pass hand in hand through life and lie down not reluctantly at it protracted close .
To them the past will be no turmoil of mad dream , nor the future an eternity of such moment a follow the delirium of the drunkard .
Their dead face shall express what their spirit be and be to be by a linger smile of memory and hope .
Ahem !
Dry work , this speechifying , especially to an unpractised orator .
I never conceive till now what toil the temperance lecturer undergo for my sake ; hereafter they shall have the business to themselves .
-- Do , some kind Christian , pump a stroke or two , just to wet my whistle .
-- Thank you , sir !
-- My dear hearer , when the world shall have be regenerate by my instrumentality , you will collect your useless vat and liquor-casks into one great pile and make a bonfire in honor of the town-pump .
And when I shall have decay like my predecessor , then , if you revere my memory , let a marble fountain richly sculpture take my place upon this spot .
Such monument should be erect everywhere and inscribe with the name of the distinguished champion of my cause .
Now , listen , for something very important be to come next .
There be two or three honest friend of mine -- and true friend I know they be -- who nevertheless by their fiery pugnacity in my behalf do put me in fearful hazard of a broken nose , or even a total overthrow upon the pavement and the loss of the treasure which I guard .
-- I pray you , gentleman , let this fault be amend .
Is it decent , think you , to get tipsy with zeal for temperance and take up the honorable cause of the town-pump in the style of a toper fight for his brandy-bottle ?
Or can the excellent quality of cold water be no otherwise exemplify than by plunge slapdash into hot water and woefully scald yourselves and other people ?
Trust me , they may .
In the moral warfare which you be to wage -- and , indeed , in the whole conduct of your life -- you can not choose a good example than myself , who have never permit the dust and sultry atmosphere , the turbulence and manifold disquietude , of the world around me to reach that deep , calm well of purity which may be call my soul .
And whenever I pour out that soul , it be to cool earth 's fever or cleanse it stain .
One o'clock !
Nay , then , if the dinner-bell begin to speak , I may as well hold my peace .
Here come a pretty young girl of my acquaintance with a large stone pitcher for me to fill .
May she draw a husband while draw her water , a Rachel do of old !
-- Hold out your vessel , my dear !
There it be , full to the brim ; so now run home , peep at your sweet image in the pitcher a you go , and forget not in a glass of my own liquor to drink `` SUCCESS TO THE TOWN-PUMP . ''
THE GREAT CARBUNCLE .
-LSB- 1 -RSB- A MYSTERY OF THE WHITE MOUNTAINS .
At nightfall once in the olden time , on the rugged side of one of the Crystal Hills , a party of adventurer be refresh themselves after a toilsome and fruitless quest for the Great Carbuncle .
They have come thither , not a friend nor partner in the enterprise , but each , save one youthful pair , impel by his own selfish and solitary longing for this wondrous gem .
Their feeling of brotherhood , however , be strong enough to induce them to contribute a mutual aid in build a rude hut of branch and kindle a great fire of shattered pine that have drift down the headlong current of the Amonoosuck , on the low bank of which they be to pass the night .
There be but one of their number , perhaps , who have become so estranged from natural sympathy by the absorb spell of the pursuit a to acknowledge no satisfaction at the sight of human face in the remote and solitary region whither they have ascend .
A vast extent of wilderness lay between them and the near settlement , while scant a mile above their head be that bleak verge where the hill throw off their shaggy mantle of forest-trees and either robe themselves in cloud or tower naked into the sky .
The roar of the Amonoosuck would have be too awful for endurance if only a solitary man have listen while the mountain-stream talk with the wind .
-LSB- Footnote 1 : The Indian tradition on which this somewhat extravagant tale be found be both too wild and too beautiful to be adequately work up in prose .
Sullivan , in his history of Maine , write since the Revolution , remark that even then the existence of the Great Carbuncle be not entirely discredit . -RSB-
The adventurer , therefore , exchange hospitable greeting and welcome one another to the hut where each man be the host and all be the guest of the whole company .
They spread their individual supply of food on the flat surface of a rock and partook of a general repast ; at the close of which a sentiment of good-fellowship be perceptible among the party , though repress by the idea that the renew search for the Great Carbuncle must make them stranger again in the morning .
Seven men and one young woman , they warm themselves together at the fire , which extend it bright wall along the whole front of their wigwam .
As they observe the various and contrasted figure that make up the assemblage , each man look like a caricature of himself in the unsteady light that flicker over him , they come mutually to the conclusion that an odder society have never meet in city or wilderness , on mountain or plain .
The eldest of the group -- a tall , lean , weatherbeaten man some sixty year of age -- be clad in the skin of wild animal whose fashion of dress he do well to imitate , since the deer , the wolf and the bear have long be his most intimate companion .
He be one of those ill-fated mortal , such a the Indians told of , whom in their early youth the Great Carbuncle smote with a peculiar madness and become the passionate dream of their existence .
All who visit that region know him a `` the Seeker , '' and by no other name .
As none could remember when he first take up the search , there go a fable in the valley of the Saco that for his inordinate lust after the Great Carbuncle he have be condemn to wander among the mountain till the end of time , still with the same feverish hope at sunrise , the same despair at eve .
Near this miserable Seeker sit a little elderly personage wear a high-crowned hat shape somewhat like a crucible .
He be from beyond the sea -- a Doctor Cacaphodel , who have wilt and dry himself into a mummy by continually stoop over charcoal-furnaces and inhale unwholesome fume during his research in chemistry and alchemy .
It be tell of him -- whether truly or not -- that at the commencement of his study he have drain his body of all it rich blood and waste it , with other inestimable ingredient , in an unsuccessful experiment , and have never be a well man since .
Another of the adventurer be Master Ichabod Pigsnort , a weighty merchant and selectman of Boston , and an elder of the famous Mr. Norton 's church .
His enemy have a ridiculous story that Master Pigsnort be accustom to spend a whole hour after prayer-time every morning and evening in wallow naked among an immense quantity of pine-tree shilling , which be the early silver coinage of Massachusetts .
The fourth whom we shall notice have no name that his companion knew of , and be chiefly distinguish by a sneer that always contort his thin visage , and by a prodigious pair of spectacle which be suppose to deform and discolor the whole face of nature to this gentleman 's perception .
The fifth adventurer likewise lack a name , which be the great pity , a he appear to be a poet .
He be a bright-eyed man , but woefully pin away , which be no more than natural if , a some people affirm , his ordinary diet be fog , morning mist and a slice of the dense cloud within his reach , sauce with moonshine whenever he could get it .
Certain it be that the poetry which flow from him have a smack of all these dainty .
The sixth of the party be a young man of haughty mien and sit somewhat apart from the rest , wear his plumed hat loftily among his elder , while the fire glitter on the rich embroidery of his dress and gleam intensely on the jewelled pommel of his sword .
This be the lord De Vere , who when at home be say to spend much of his time in the burial-vault of his dead progenitor rummage their mouldy coffin in search of all the earthly pride and vainglory that be hide among bone and dust ; so that , besides his own share , he have the collected haughtiness of his whole line of ancestry .
Lastly , there be a handsome youth in rustic garb , and by his side a blooming little person in whom a delicate shade of maiden reserve be just melt into the rich glow of a young wife 's affection .
Her name be Hannah , and her husband 's Matthew -- two homely name , yet well enough adapt to the simple pair who seem strangely out of place among the whimsical fraternity whose wit have be set agog by the Great Carbuncle .
Beneath the shelter of one hut , in the bright blaze of the same fire , sit this varied group of adventurer , all so intent upon a single object that of whatever else they begin to speak their closing word be sure to be illuminate with the Great Carbuncle .
Several relate the circumstance that bring them thither .
One have listen to a traveller 's tale of this marvellous stone in his own distant country , and have immediately be seize with such a thirst for behold it a could only be quench in it intensest lustre .
Another , so long ago a when the famous Captain Smith visit these coast , have see it blaze far at sea , and have felt no rest in all the intervene year till now that he take up the search .
A third , be encamp on a hunting-expedition full forty mile south of the White Mountains , awake at midnight and behold the Great Carbuncle gleam like a meteor , so that the shadow of the tree fell backward from it .
They speak of the innumerable attempt which have be make to reach the spot , and of the singular fatality which have hitherto withhold success from all adventurer , though it might seem so easy to follow to it source a light that overpower the moon and almost match the sun .
It be observable that each smile scornfully at the madness of every other in anticipate good fortune than the past , yet nourish a scarcely-hidden conviction that he would himself be the favored one .
As if to allay their too sanguine hope , they recur to the Indian tradition that a spirit keep watch about the gem and bewilder those who seek it either by remove it from peak to peak of the high hill or by call up a mist from the enchanted lake over which it hang .
But these tale be deem unworthy of credit , all profess to believe that the search have be baffle by want of sagacity or perseverance in the adventurer , or such other cause a might naturally obstruct the passage to any give point among the intricacy of forest , valley and mountain .
In a pause of the conversation the wearer of the prodigious spectacle look round upon the party , make each individual in turn the object of the sneer which invariably dwell upon his countenance .
`` So , fellow-pilgrims , '' say he , `` here we be , seven wise men and one fair damsel , who doubtless be as wise a any graybeard of the company .
Here we be , I say , all bound on the same goodly enterprise .
Methinks , now , it be not amiss that each of u declare what he propose to do with the Great Carbuncle , provide he have the good hap to clutch it .
-- What say our friend in the bearskin ?
How mean you , good sir , to enjoy the prize which you have be seek the Lord know how long among the Crystal Hills ? ''
`` How enjoy it ! ''
exclaim the age Seeker , bitterly .
`` I hope for no enjoyment from it : that folly have past long ago .
I keep up the search for this accursed stone because the vain ambition of my youth have become a fate upon me in old age .
The pursuit alone be my strength , the energy of my soul , the warmth of my blood and the pith and marrow of my bone .
Were I to turn my back upon it , I should fall down dead on the hither side of the notch which be the gateway of this mountain-region .
Yet not to have my waste lifetime back again would I give up my hope of be deem little good than a traffic with the evil one .
Now , think ye that I would have do this grievous wrong to my soul , body , reputation and estate without a reasonable chance of profit ? ''
`` Not I , pious Master Pigsnort , '' say the man with the spectacle .
`` I never lay such a great folly to thy charge . ''
`` Truly , I hope not , '' say the merchant .
`` Now , a touch this Great Carbuncle , I be free to own that I have never have a glimpse of it , but , be it only the hundredth part so bright a people tell , it will surely outvalue the Great Mogul 's best diamond , which he hold at an incalculable sum ; wherefore I be mind to put the Great Carbuncle on shipboard and voyage with it to England , France , Spain , Italy , or into heathendom if Providence should send me thither , and , in a word , dispose of the gem to the best bidder among the potentate of the earth , that he may place it among his crown-jewels .
If any of ye have a wiser plan , let him expound it . ''
`` That have I , thou sordid man ! ''
exclaim the poet .
`` Dost thou desire nothing brighter than gold , that thou wouldst transmute all this ethereal lustre into such dross a thou wallowest in already ?
For myself , hide the jewel under my cloak , I shall hie me back to my attic-chamber in one of the darksome alley of London .
There night and day will I gaze upon it .
My soul shall drink it radiance ; it shall be diffuse throughout my intellectual power and gleam brightly in every line of poesy that I indite .
Thus long age after I be go the splendor of the Great Carbuncle will blaze around my name . ''
`` Well say , Master Poet ! ''
cry he of the spectacle .
`` Hide it under thy cloak , sayest thou ?
Why , it will gleam through the hole and make thee look like a jack-o ' - lantern ! ''
`` To think , '' ejaculate the lord De Vere , rather to himself than his companion , the best of whom he hold utterly unworthy of his intercourse -- `` to think that a fellow in a tattered cloak should talk of convey the Great Carbuncle to a garret in Grubb street !
Have not I resolve within myself that the whole earth contain no fitter ornament for the great hall of my ancestral castle ?
There shall it flame for age , make a noonday of midnight , glitter on the suit of armor , the banner and escutcheon , that hang around the wall , and keep bright the memory of hero .
Wherefore have all other adventurer seek the prize in vain but that I might win it and make it a symbol of the glory of our lofty line ?
And never on the diadem of the White Mountains do the Great Carbuncle hold a place half so honored a be reserve for it in the hall of the De Veres . ''
`` It be a noble thought , '' say the cynic , with an obsequious sneer .
`` Yet , might I presume to say so , the gem would make a rare sepulchral lamp , and would display the glory of Your Lordship 's progenitor more truly in the ancestral vault than in the castle-hall . ''
`` Nay , forsooth , '' observe Matthew , the young rustic , who sit hand in hand with his bride , `` the gentleman have bethink himself of a profitable use for this bright stone .
Hannah here and I be seek it for a like purpose . ''
`` How , fellow ? ''
exclaim His Lordship , in surprise .
`` What castle-hall hast thou to hang it in ? ''
`` No castle , '' reply Matthew , `` but a neat a cottage a any within sight of the Crystal Hills .
Ye must know , friend , that Hannah and I , be wed the last week , have take up the search of the Great Carbuncle because we shall need it light in the long winter evening and it will be such a pretty thing to show the neighbor when they visit u !
It will shine through the house , so that we may pick up a pin in any corner , and will set all the window a-glowing a if there be a great fire of pine-knots in the chimney .
And then how pleasant , when we awake in the night , to be able to see one another 's face ! ''
There be a general smile among the adventurer at the simplicity of the young couple 's project in regard to this wondrous and invaluable stone , with which the great monarch on earth might have be proud to adorn his palace .
Especially the man with spectacle , who have sneer at all the company in turn , now twist his visage into such an expression of ill-natured mirth that Matthew ask him rather peevishly what he himself mean to do with the Great Carbuncle .
`` The Great Carbuncle ! ''
answer the cynic , with ineffable scorn .
`` Why , you blockhead , there be no such thing in rerum natur .
I have come three thousand mile , and be resolve to set my foot on every peak of these mountain and poke my head into every chasm for the sole purpose of demonstrate to the satisfaction of any man one whit le an as than thyself that the Great Carbuncle be all a humbug . ''
Vain and foolish be the motif that have bring most of the adventurer to the Crystal Hills , but none so vain , so foolish , and so impious too , a that of the scoffer with the prodigious spectacle .
He be one of those wretched and evil men whose yearning be downward to the darkness instead of heavenward , and who , could they but extinguish the light which God hath kindle for u , would count the midnight gloom their chief glory .
As the cynic speak several of the party be startle by a gleam of red splendor that show the huge shape of the surrounding mountain and the rock-bestrewn bed of the turbulent river , with an illumination unlike that of their fire , on the trunk and black bough of the forest-trees .
They listen for the roll of thunder , but heard nothing , and be glad that the tempest come not near them .
The star -- those dial-points of heaven -- now warn the adventurer to close their eye on the blazing log and open them in dream to the glow of the Great Carbuncle .
The young married couple have take their lodging in the farthest corner of the wigwam , and be separate from the rest of the party by a curtain of curiously-woven twig such a might have hang in deep festoon around the bridal-bower of Eve .
The modest little wife have work this piece of tapestry while the other guest be talk .
She and her husband fell asleep with hand tenderly clasp , and awake from vision of unearthly radiance to meet the more blessed light of one another 's eye .
They awake at the same instant and with one happy smile beam over their two face , which grow brighter with their consciousness of the reality of life and love .
But no sooner do she recollect where they be than the bride peep through the interstice of the leafy curtain and saw that the outer room of the hut be desert .
`` Up , dear Matthew ! ''
cry she , in haste .
`` The strange folk be all go .
Up this very minute , or we shall lose the Great Carbuncle ! ''
In truth , so little do these poor young people deserve the mighty prize which have lure them thither that they have sleep peacefully all night and till the summit of the hill be glitter with sunshine , while the other adventurer have toss their limb in feverish wakefulness or dream of climb precipice , and set off to realize their dream with the curly peep of dawn .
But Matthew and Hannah after their calm rest be as light a two young deer , and merely stop to say their prayer and wash themselves in a cold pool of the Amonoosuck , and then to taste a morsel of food ere they turn their face to the mountain-side .
It be a sweet emblem of conjugal affection a they toil up the difficult ascent gather strength from the mutual aid which they afford .
After several little accident , such a a torn robe , a lose shoe and the entanglement of Hannah 's hair in a bough , they reach the upper verge of the forest and be now to pursue a more adventurous course .
The innumerable trunk and heavy foliage of the tree have hitherto shut in their thought , which now shrink affright from the region of wind and cloud and naked rock and desolate sunshine that rise immeasurably above them .
They gaze back at the obscure wilderness which they have traverse , and long to be bury again in it depth rather than trust themselves to so vast and visible a solitude .
`` Shall we go on ? ''
say Matthew , throw his arm round Hannah 's waist both to protect her and to comfort his heart by draw her close to it .
But the little bride , simple a she be , have a woman 's love of jewel , and could not forego the hope of possess the very bright in the world , in spite of the peril with which it must be win .
`` Let u climb a little high , '' whisper she , yet tremulously , a she turn her face upward to the lonely sky .
`` Come , then , '' say Matthew , muster his manly courage and draw her along with him ; for she become timid again the moment that he grow bold .
And upward , accordingly , go the pilgrim of the Great Carbuncle , now tread upon the top and thickly-interwoven branch of dwarf pine which by the growth of century , though mossy with age , have barely reach three foot in altitude .
Next they come to mass and fragment of naked rock heap confusedly together like a cairn rear by giant in memory of a giant chief .
In this bleak realm of upper air nothing breathe , nothing grow ; there be no life but what be concentre in their two heart ; they have climb so high that Nature herself seem no long to keep them company .
She linger beneath them within the verge of the forest-trees , and send a farewell glance after her child a they stray where her own green footprint have never be .
But soon they be to be hide from her eye .
Densely and dark the mist begin to gather below , cast black spot of shadow on the vast landscape and sail heavily to one centre , a if the lofty mountain-peak have summon a council of it kindred cloud .
Finally the vapor weld themselves , a it be , into a mass , present the appearance of a pavement over which the wanderer might have tread , but where they would vainly have seek an avenue to the bless earth which they have lose .
And the lover yearn to behold that green earth again -- more intensely , ala !
than beneath a cloud sky they have ever desire a glimpse of heaven .
They even felt it a relief to their desolation when the mist , creep gradually up the mountain , conceal it lonely peak , and thus annihilate -- at least , for them -- the whole region of visible space .
But they draw closer together with a fond and melancholy gaze , dread l the universal cloud should snatch them from each other 's sight .
Still , perhaps , they would have be resolute to climb a far and as high between earth and heaven a they could find foothold if Hannah 's strength have not begin to fail , and with that her courage also .
Her breath grow short .
She refuse to burden her husband with her weight , but often totter against his side , and recover herself each time by a feebler effort .
At last she sink down on one of the rocky step of the acclivity .
`` We be lose , dear Matthew , '' say she , mournfully ; `` we shall never find our way to the earth again .
And oh how happy we might have be in our cottage ! ''
`` Dear heart , we will yet be happy there , '' answer Matthew .
`` Look !
In this direction the sunshine penetrate the dismal mist ; by it aid I can direct our course to the passage of the Notch .
Let u go back , love , and dream no more of the Great Carbuncle . ''
`` The sun can not be yonder , '' say Hannah , with despondence .
`` By this time it must be noon ; if there could ever be any sunshine here , it would come from above our head . ''
`` But look ! ''
repeat Matthew , in a somewhat altered tone .
`` It be brighten every moment .
If not sunshine , what can it be ? ''
Nor could the young bride any long deny that a radiance be break through the mist and change it dim hue to a dusky red , which continually grow more vivid , a if brilliant particle be interfused with the gloom .
Now , also , the cloud begin to roll away from the mountain , while , a it heavily withdraw , one object after another start out of it impenetrable obscurity into sight with precisely the effect of a new creation before the indistinctness of the old chaos have be completely swallow up .
As the process go on they saw the gleaming of water close at their foot , and find themselves on the very border of a mountain-lake , deep , bright , clear and calmly beautiful , spread from brim to brim of a basin that have be scoop out of the solid rock .
A ray of glory flash across it surface .
The pilgrim look whence it should proceed , but close their eye , with a thrill of awful admiration , to exclude the fervid splendor that glow from the brow of a cliff impending over the enchanted lake .
For the simple pair have reach that lake of mystery and find the long-sought shrine of the Great Carbuncle .
They throw their arm around each other and tremble at their own success , for a the legend of this wondrous gem rush thick upon their memory they felt themselves mark out by fate , and the consciousness be fearful .
Often from childhood upward they have see it shin like a distant star , and now that star be throw it intense lustre on their heart .
They seem change to one another 's eye in the red brilliancy that flame upon their cheek , while it lend the same fire to the lake , the rock and sky , and to the mist which have roll back before it power .
But with their next glance they behold an object that draw their attention even from the mighty stone .
At the base of the cliff , directly beneath the Great Carbuncle , appear the figure of a man with his arm extend in the act of climb and his face turn upward a if to drink the full gush of splendor .
But he stir not , no more than if change to marble .
`` It be the Seeker , '' whisper Hannah , convulsively grasp her husband 's arm .
`` Matthew , he be dead . ''
`` The joy of success have kill him , '' reply Matthew , tremble violently .
`` Or perhaps the very light of the Great Carbuncle be death . '' ''
` The Great Carbuncle ' ! ''
cry a peevish voice behind them .
`` The great humbug !
If you have find it , prithee point it out to me . ''
They turn their head , and there be the cynic with his prodigious spectacle set carefully on his nose , star now at the lake , now at the rock , now at the distant mass of vapor , now right at the Great Carbuncle itself , yet seemingly a unconscious of it light a if all the scatter cloud be condense about his person .
Though it radiance actually throw the shadow of the unbeliever at his own foot a he turn his back upon the glorious jewel , he would not be convince that there be the least glimmer there .
`` Where be your great humbug ? ''
he repeat .
`` I challenge you to make me see it . ''
`` There ! ''
say Matthew , incense at such perverse blindness , and turn the cynic round toward the illuminated cliff .
`` Take off those abominable spectacle , and you can not help see it . ''
Now , these color spectacle probably darken the cynic 's sight in at least a great a degree a the smoked glass through which people gaze at an eclipse .
With resolute bravado , however , he snatch them from his nose and fix a bold stare full upon the ruddy blaze of the Great Carbuncle .
But scarcely have he encounter it when , with a deep , shudder groan , he drop his head and press both hand across his miserable eye .
Thenceforth there be in very truth no light of the Great Carbuncle , nor any other light on earth , nor light of heaven itself , for the poor cynic .
So long accustomed to view all object through a medium that deprive them of every glimpse of brightness , a single flash of so glorious a phenomenon , strike upon his naked vision , have blind him for ever .
`` Matthew , '' say Hannah , cling to him , `` let u go hence . ''
Matthew saw that she be faint , and , kneel down , support her in his arm while he throw some of the thrillingly-cold water of the enchanted lake upon her face and bosom .
It revive her , but could not renovate her courage .
`` Yes , dear , '' cry Matthew , press her tremulous form to his breast ; `` we will go hence and return to our humble cottage .
The bless sunshine and the quiet moonlight shall come through our window .
We will kindle the cheerful glow of our hearth at eventide and be happy in it light .
But never again will we desire more light than all the world may share with u . ''
`` No , '' say his bride , `` for how could we live by day or sleep by night in this awful blaze of the Great Carbuncle ? ''
Out of the hollow of their hand they drink each a draught from the lake , which present them it water uncontaminated by an earthly lip .
Then , lend their guidance to the blind cynic , who utter not a word , and even stifle his groan in his own most wretched heart , they begin to descend the mountain .
Yet a they leave the shore , till then untrodden , of the spirit 's lake , they throw a farewell glance toward the cliff and behold the vapor gathering in dense volume , through which the gem burn duskily .
As touch the other pilgrim of the Great Carbuncle , the legend go on to tell that the worshipful Master Ichabod Pigsnort soon give up the quest a a desperate speculation , and wisely resolve to betake himself again to his warehouse , near the town-dock , in Boston .
But a he pass through the Notch of the mountain a war-party of Indians capture our unlucky merchant and carry him to Montreal , there hold him in bondage till by the payment of a heavy ransom he have woefully subtract from his hoard of pine-tree shilling .
By his long absence , moreover , his affair have become so disordered that for the rest of his life , instead of wallow in silver , he have seldom a sixpence-worth of copper .
Doctor Cacaphodel , the alchemist , return to his laboratory with a prodigious fragment of granite , which he grind to powder , dissolve in acid , melt in the crucible and burnt with the blowpipe , and publish the result of his experiment in one of the heavy folio of the day .
And for all these purpose the gem itself could not have answer good than the granite .
The poet , by a somewhat similar mistake , make prize of a great piece of ice which he find in a sunless chasm of the mountain , and swore that it correspond in all point with his idea of the Great Carbuncle .
The critic say that , if his poetry lack the splendor of the gem , it retain all the coldness of the ice .
The lord De Vere go back to his ancestral hall , where he content himself with a wax-lighted chandelier , and fill in due course of time another coffin in the ancestral vault .
As the funeral torch gleam within that dark receptacle , there be no need of the Great Carbuncle to show the vanity of earthly pomp .
The cynic , have cast aside his spectacle , wander about the world a miserable object , and be punish with an agonize desire of light for the wilful blindness of his former life .
The whole night long he would lift his splendor-blasted orb to the moon and star ; he turn his face eastward at sunrise as duly a a Persian idolater ; he make a pilgrimage to Rome to witness the magnificent illumination of Saint Peter 's church , and finally perish in the Great Fire of London , into the midst of which he have thrust himself with the desperate idea of catch one feeble ray from the blaze that be kindle earth and heaven .
Matthew and his bride spend many peaceful year and be fond of tell the legend of the Great Carbuncle .
The tale , however , toward the close of their lengthened life , do not meet with the full credence that have be accord to it by those who remember the ancient lustre of the gem .
For it be affirm that from the hour when two mortal have show themselves so simply wise a to reject a jewel which would have dim all earthly thing it splendor wan .
When our pilgrim reach the cliff , they find only an opaque stone with particle of mica glitter on it surface .
There be also a tradition that a the youthful pair depart the gem be loosen from the forehead of the cliff and fell into the enchanted lake , and that at noontide the Seeker 's form may still be see to bend over it quenchless gleam .
Some few believe that this inestimable stone be blaze a of old , and say that they have catch it radiance , like a flash of summer lightning , far down the valley of the Saco .
And be it own that many a mile from the Crystal Hills I saw a wondrous light around their summit , and be lure by the faith of poesy to be the late pilgrim of the Great Carbuncle .
THE PROPHETIC PICTURES .
-LSB- 1 -RSB- `` But this painter ! ''
cry Walter Ludlow , with animation .
`` He not only excel in his peculiar art , but possess vast acquirement in all other learning and science .
He talk Hebrew with Dr. Mather and give lecture in anatomy to Dr. Boylston .
In a word , he will meet the best-instructed man among u on his own ground .
Moreover , he be a polished gentleman , a citizen of the world -- yes , a true cosmopolite ; for he will speak like a native of each clime and country on the globe , except our own forest , whither he be now go .
Nor be all this what I most admire in him . ''
-LSB- Footnote 1 : This story be suggest by an anecdote of Stuart relate in Dunlap 's History of the Arts of Designs -- a most entertaining book to the general reader , and a deeply-interesting one , we should think , to the artist . -RSB-
`` Indeed ! ''
say Elinor , who have listen with a woman 's interest to the description of such a man .
`` Yet this be admirable enough . ''
`` Surely it be , '' reply her lover , `` but far less so than his natural gift of adapt himself to every variety of character , insomuch that all men -- and all woman too , Elinor -- shall find a mirror of themselves in this wonderful painter .
But the great wonder be yet to be tell . ''
`` Nay , if he have more wonderful attribute than these , '' say Elinor , laughing , `` Boston be a perilous abode for the poor gentleman .
Are you tell me of a painter , or a wizard ? ''
`` In truth , '' answer he , `` that question might be ask much more seriously than you suppose .
They say that he paint not merely a man 's feature , but his mind and heart .
He catch the secret sentiment and passion and throw them upon the canvas like sunshine , or perhaps , in the portrait of dark-souled men , like a gleam of infernal fire .
It be an awful gift , '' add Walter , lower his voice from it tone of enthusiasm .
`` I shall be almost afraid to sit to him . ''
`` Walter , be you in earnest ? ''
exclaim Elinor .
`` For Heaven 's sake , dear Elinor , do not let him paint the look which you now wear , '' say her lover , smile , though rather perplex .
`` There !
it be pass away now ; but when you speak , you seem frighten to death , and very sad besides .
What be you think of ? ''
`` Nothing , nothing ! ''
answer Elinor , hastily .
`` You paint my face with your own fantasy .
Well , come for me tomorrow , and we will visit this wonderful artist . ''
But when the young man have depart , it can not be deny that a remarkable expression be again visible on the fair and youthful face of his mistress .
It be a sad and anxious look , little in accordance with what should have be the feeling of a maiden on the eve of wedlock .
Yet Walter Ludlow be the chosen of her heart .
`` A look ! ''
say Elinor to herself .
`` No wonder that it startle him if it express what I sometimes feel .
I know by my own experience how frightful a look may be .
But it be all fancy .
I think nothing of it at the time ; I have see nothing of it since ; I do but dream it ; '' and she busy herself about the embroidery of a ruff in which she mean that her portrait should be take .
The painter of whom they have be speak be not one of those native artist who at a late period than this borrow their color from the Indians and manufacture their pencil of the fur of wild beast .
Perhaps , if he could have revoke his life and prearrange his destiny , he might have choose to belong to that school without a master in the hope of be at least original , since there be no work of art to imitate nor rule to follow .
But he have be bear and educate in Europe .
People say that he have study the grandeur or beauty of conception and every touch of the master-hand in all the most famous picture in cabinet and gallery and on the wall of church till there be nothing more for his powerful mind to learn .
Art could add nothing to it lesson , but Nature might .
He have , therefore , visit a world whither none of his professional brother have precede him , to feast his eye on visible image that be noble and picturesque , yet have never be transfer to canvas .
America be too poor to afford other temptation to an artist of eminence , though many of the colonial gentry on the painter 's arrival have express a wish to transmit their lineament to posterity by moan of his skill .
Whenever such proposal be make , he fix his pierce eye on the applicant and seem to look him through and through .
If he behold only a sleek and comfortable visage , though there be a gold-laced coat to adorn the picture and golden guinea to pay for it , he civilly reject the task and the reward ; but if the face be the index of anything uncommon in thought , sentiment or experience , or if he meet a beggar in the street with a white beard and a furrowed brow , or if sometimes a child happen to look up and smile , he would exhaust all the art on them that he deny to wealth .
Pictorial skill be so rare in the colony , the painter become an object of general curiosity .
If few or none could appreciate the technical merit of his production , yet there be point in regard to which the opinion of the crowd be as valuable a the refined judgment of the amateur .
He watch the effect that each picture produce on such untutored beholder , and derived profit from their remark , while they would as soon have think of instruct Nature herself a him who seem to rival her .
Their admiration , it must be own , be tincture with the prejudice of the age and country .
Some deem it an offence against the Mosaic law , and even a presumptuous mockery of the Creator , to bring into existence such lively image of his creature .
Others , frighten at the art which could raise phantom at will and keep the form of the dead among the living , be incline to consider the painter a a magician , or perhaps the famous Black Man of old witch-times plot mischief in a new guise .
These foolish fancy be more , than half believe among the mob .
Even in superior circle his character be invest with a vague awe , partly rise like smoke-wreaths from the popular superstition , but chiefly cause by the varied knowledge and talent which he make subservient to his profession .
Being on the eve of marriage , Walter Ludlow and Elinor be eager to obtain their portrait a the first of what , they doubtless hop , would be a long series of family picture .
The day after the conversation above record they visit the painter 's room .
A servant usher them into an apartment where , though the artist himself be not visible , there be personage whom they could hardly forbear greet with reverence .
They know , indeed , that the whole assembly be but picture , yet felt it impossible to separate the idea of life and intellect from such striking counterfeit .
Several of the portrait be know to them either a distinguished character of the day or their private acquaintance .
There be Governor Burnett , look a if he have just receive an undutiful communication from the House of Representatives and be indite a most sharp response .
Mr. Cooke hang beside the ruler whom he oppose , sturdy and somewhat puritanical , a befit a popular leader .
The ancient lady of Sir William Phipps eye them from the wall in ruff and farthingale , an imperious old dame not unsuspected of witchcraft .
John Winslow , then a very young man , wear the expression of warlike enterprise which long afterward make him a distinguish general .
Their personal friend be recognize at a glance .
In most of the picture the whole mind and character be bring out on the countenance and concentrate into a single look ; so that , to speak paradoxically , the original hardly resemble themselves so strikingly a the portrait do .
Among these modern worthy there be two old beard saint who have almost vanish into the darken canvas .
There be also a pale but unfaded Madonna who have perhaps be worship in Rome , and now regard the lover with such a mild and holy look that they long to worship too .
`` How singular a thought , '' observe Walter Ludlow , `` that this beautiful face have be beautiful for above two hundred year !
Oh , if all beauty would endure so well !
Do you not envy her , Elinor ? ''
`` If earth be heaven , I might , '' she reply .
`` But , where all thing fade , how miserable to be the one that could not fade ! ''
`` This dark old St. Peter have a fierce and ugly scowl , saint though he be , '' continue Walter ; `` he trouble me .
But the Virgin look kindly at u . ''
`` Yes , but very sorrowfully , methinks , '' say Elinor .
The easel stand beneath these three old picture , sustain one that have be recently commence .
After a little inspection they begin to recognize the feature of their own minister , the Rev . Dr. Colman , grow into shape and life , a it be , out of a cloud .
`` Kind old man ! ''
exclaim Elinor .
`` He gaze at me a if he be about to utter a word of paternal advice . ''
`` And at me , '' say Walter , `` a if he be about to shake his head and rebuke me for some suspected iniquity .
But so do the original .
I shall never feel quite comfortable under his eye till we stand before him to be marry . ''
They now hear a footstep on the floor , and , turn , behold the painter , who have be some moment in the room and have listen to a few of their remark .
He be a middle-aged man with a countenance well worthy of his own pencil .
Indeed , by the picturesque though careless arrangement of his rich dress , and perhaps because his soul dwelt always among painted shape , he look somewhat like a portrait himself .
His visitor be sensible of a kindred between the artist and his work , and felt a if one of the picture have step from the canvas to salute them .
Walter Ludlow , who be slightly know to the painter , explain the object of their visit .
While he speak a sunbeam be fall athwart his figure and Elinor 's with so happy an effect that they also seem living picture of youth and beauty gladden by bright fortune .
The artist be evidently strike .
`` My easel be occupy for several ensue day , and my stay in Boston must be brief , '' say he , thoughtfully ; then , after an observant glance , he add , `` But your wish shall be gratify though I disappoint the chief-justice and Madame Oliver .
I must not lose this opportunity for the sake of paint a few ell of broadcloth and brocade . ''
The painter express a desire to introduce both their portrait into one picture and represent them engage in some appropriate action .
This plan would have delight the lover , but be necessarily reject because so large a space of canvas would have be unfit for the room which it be intend to decorate .
Two half-length portrait be therefore fix upon .
After they have take leave , Walter Ludlow ask Elinor , with a smile , whether she know what an influence over their fate the painter be about to acquire .
`` The old woman of Boston affirm , '' continue he , `` that after he have once get possession of a person 's face and figure he may paint him in any act or situation whatever , and the picture will be prophetic .
Do you believe it ? ''
`` Not quite , '' say Elinor , smile .
`` Yet if he have such magic , there be something so gentle in his manner that I be sure he will use it well . ''
It be the painter 's choice to proceed with both the portrait at the same time , assign a a reason , in the mystical language which he sometimes use , that the face threw light upon each other .
Accordingly , he give now a touch to Walter and now to Elinor , and the feature of one and the other begin to start forth so vividly that it appear a if his triumphant art would actually disengage them from the canvas .
Amid the rich light and deep shade they behold their phantom self , but , though the likeness promise to be perfect , they be not quite satisfied with the expression : it seem more vague than in most of the painter 's work .
He , however , be satisfy with the prospect of success , and , be much interest in the lover , employ his leisure moment , unknown to them , in make a crayon sketch of their two figure .
During their sitting he engage them in conversation and kindle up their face with characteristic trait , which , though continually vary , it be his purpose to combine and fix .
At length he announce that at their next visit both the portrait would be ready for delivery .
`` If my pencil will but be true to my conception in the few last touch which I meditate , '' observe he , `` these two picture will be my very best performance .
Seldom indeed have an artist such subject . ''
While speak he still bend his penetrative eye upon them , nor withdraw it till they have reach the bottom of the stair .
Nothing in the whole circle of human vanity take strong hold of the imagination than this affair of have a portrait paint .
Yet why should it be so ?
The looking-glass , the polished globe of the andiron , the mirror-like water , and all other reflect surface , continually present u with portrait -- or , rather , ghost -- of ourselves which we glance at and straightway forget them .
But we forget them only because they vanish .
It be the idea of duration -- of earthly immortality -- that give such a mysterious interest to our own portrait .
Walter and Elinor be not insensible to this feeling , and hasten to the painter 's room punctually at the appoint hour to meet those picture shape which be to be their representative with posterity .
The sunshine flash after them into the apartment , but leave it somewhat gloomy a they close the door .
Their eye be immediately attract to their portrait , which rest against the farthest wall of the room .
At the first glance through the dim light and the distance , see themselves in precisely their natural attitude and with all the air that they recognize so well , they utter a simultaneous exclamation of delight .
`` There we stand , '' cry Walter , enthusiastically , `` fix in sunshine for ever .
No dark passion can gather on our face . ''
`` No , '' say Elinor , more calmly ; `` no dreary change can sadden u . ''
This be say while they be approach and have yet gain only an imperfect view of the picture .
The painter , after salute them , busy himself at a table in complete a crayon sketch , leave his visitor to form their own judgment a to his perfected labor .
At interval he send a glance from beneath his deep eyebrow , watch their countenance in profile with his pencil suspend over the sketch .
They have now stand some moment , each in front of the other 's picture , contemplate it with entranced attention , but without utter a word .
At length Walter step forward , then back , view Elinor 's portrait in various light , and finally speak .
`` Is there not a change ? ''
say he , in a doubtful and meditative tone .
`` Yes ; the perception of it grow more vivid the longer I look .
It be certainly the same picture that I saw yesterday ; the dress , the feature , all be the same , and yet something be alter . ''
`` Is , then , the picture less like than it be yesterday ? ''
inquire the painter , now draw near with irrepressible interest .
`` The feature be perfect Elinor , '' answer Walter , `` and at the first glance the expression seem also hers ; but I could fancy that the portrait have change countenance while I have be look at it .
The eye be fix on mine with a strangely sad and anxious expression .
Nay , it be grief and terror .
Is this like Elinor ? ''
`` Compare the living face with the pictured one , '' say the painter .
Walter glance sidelong at his mistress , and start .
Motionless and absorb , fascinate , a it be , in contemplation of Walter 's portrait , Elinor 's face have assume precisely the expression of which he have just be complain .
Had she practise for whole hour before a mirror , she could not have catch the look so successfully .
Had the picture itself be a mirror , it could not have throw back her present aspect with strong and more melancholy truth .
She appear quite unconscious of the dialogue between the artist and her lover .
`` Elinor , '' exclaim Walter , in amazement , `` what change have come over you ? ''
She do not hear him nor desist from her fix gaze till he seize her hand , and thus attract her notice ; then with a sudden tremor she look from the picture to the face of the original .
`` Do you see no change in your portrait ? ''
ask she .
`` In mine ?
None , '' reply Walter , examine it .
`` But let me see .
Yes ; there be a slight change -- an improvement , I think , in the picture , though none in the likeness .
It have a lively expression than yesterday , a if some bright thought be flash from the eye and about to be utter from the lip .
Now that I have catch the look , it become very decided . ''
While he be intent on these observation Elinor turn to the painter .
She regard him with grief and awe , and felt that he repay her with sympathy and commiseration , though wherefore she could but vaguely guess .
`` That look ! ''
whisper she , and shudder .
`` How come it there ? ''
`` Madam , '' say the painter , sadly , take her hand and lead her apart , `` in both these picture I have paint what I saw .
The artist -- the true artist -- must look beneath the exterior .
It be his gift -- his proudest , but often a melancholy one -- to see the inmost soul , and by a power indefinable even to himself to make it glow or darken upon the canvas in glance that express the thought and sentiment of year .
Would that I might convince myself of error in the present instance ! ''
They have now approach the table , on which be head in chalk , hand almost as expressive a ordinary face , ivied church-towers , thatch cottage , old thunder-stricken tree , Oriental and antique costume , and all such picturesque vagary of an artist 's idle moment .
Turning them over with seem carelessness , a crayon sketch of two figure be disclose .
`` If I have fail , '' continue he -- `` if your heart do not see itself reflect in your own portrait , if you have no secret cause to trust my delineation of the other -- it be not yet too late to alter them .
I might change the action of these figure too .
But would it influence the event ? ''
He direct her notice to the sketch .
A thrill run through Elinor 's frame ; a shriek be upon her lip , but she stifle it with the self-command that become habitual to all who hide thought of fear and anguish within their bosom .
Turning from the table , she perceive that Walter have advance near enough to have see the sketch , though she could not determine whether it have catch his eye .
`` We will not have the picture alter , '' say she , hastily .
`` If mine be sad , I shall but look the gayer for the contrast . ''
`` Be it so , '' answer the painter , bowing .
`` May your grief be such fanciful one that only your picture may mourn for them !
For your joy , may they be true and deep , and paint themselves upon this lovely face till it quite belie my art ! ''
After the marriage of Walter and Elinor the picture form the two most splendid ornament of their abode .
They hang side by side , separate by a narrow panel , appear to eye each other constantly , yet always return the gaze of the spectator .
Travelled gentleman who profess a knowledge of such subject reckon these among the most admirable specimen of modern portraiture , while common observer compare them with the original , feature by feature , and be rapturous in praise of the likeness .
But it be on a third class -- neither travelled connoisseur nor common observer , but people of natural sensibility -- that the picture work their strong effect .
Such person might gaze carelessly at first , but , become interested , would return day after day and study these painted face like the page of a mystic volume .
Walter Ludlow 's portrait attract their early notice .
In the absence of himself and his bride they sometimes dispute a to the expression which the painter have intend to throw upon the feature , all agree that there be a look of earnest import , though no two explain it alike .
There be less diversity of opinion in regard to Elinor 's picture .
They differ , indeed , in their attempt to estimate the nature and depth of the gloom that dwell upon her face , but agree that it be gloom and alien from the natural temperament of their youthful friend .
A certain fanciful person announce a the result of much scrutiny that both these picture be part of one design , and that the melancholy strength of feeling in Elinor 's countenance bore reference to the more vivid emotion -- or , a he term it , the wild passion -- in that of Walter .
Though unskilled in the art , he even begin a sketch in which the action of the two figure be to correspond with their mutual expression .
It be whisper among friend that day by day Elinor 's face be assume a deep shade of pensiveness which threaten soon to render her too true a counterpart of her melancholy picture .
Walter , on the other hand , instead of acquire the vivid look which the painter have give him on the canvas , become reserve and downcast , with no outward flash of emotion , however it might be smoulder within .
In course of time Elinor hang a gorgeous curtain of purple silk wrought with flower and fringe with heavy golden tassel before the picture , under pretence that the dust would tarnish their hue or the light dim them .
It be enough .
Her visitor felt that the massive fold of the silk must never be withdraw nor the portrait mention in her presence .
Time wore on , and the painter come again .
He have be far enough to the north to see the silver cascade of the Crystal Hills , and to look over the vast round of cloud and forest from the summit of New England 's lofty mountain .
But he do not profane that scene by the mockery of his art .
He have also lie in a canoe on the bosom of Lake George , make his soul the mirror of it loveliness and grandeur till not a picture in the Vatican be more vivid than his recollection .
He have go with the Indian hunter to Niagara , and there , again , have fling his hopeless pencil down the precipice , feel that he could as soon paint the roar a aught else that go to make up the wondrous cataract .
In truth , it be seldom his impulse to copy natural scenery except a a framework for the delineation of the human form and face instinct with thought , passion or suffering .
With store of such his adventurous ramble have enrich him .
The stern dignity of Indian chief , the dusky loveliness of Indian girl , the domestic life of wigwam , the stealthy march , the battle beneath gloomy pine tree , the frontier fortress with it garrison , the anomaly of the old French partisan breed in court , but grown gray in shaggy desert , -- such be the scene and portrait that he have sketch .
The glow of perilous moment , flash of wild feeling , struggle of fierce power , love , hate , grief , frenzy -- in a word , all the worn-out heart of the old earth -- have be reveal to him under a new form .
His portfolio be fill with graphic illustration of the volume of his memory which genius would transmute into it own substance and imbue with immortality .
He felt that the deep wisdom in his art which he have seek so far be find .
But amid stern or lovely nature , in the peril of the forest or it overwhelming peacefulness , still there have be two phantom , the companion of his way .
Like all other men around whom an engross purpose wreathes itself , he be insulate from the mass of humankind .
He have no aim , no pleasure , no sympathy , but what be ultimately connect with his art .
Though gentle in manner and upright in intent and action , he do not possess kindly feeling ; his heart be cold : no living creature could be bring near enough to keep him warm .
For these two being , however , he have felt in it great intensity the sort of interest which always ally him to the subject of his pencil .
He have pry into their soul with his keenest insight and picture the result upon their feature with his utmost skill , so as barely to fall short of that standard which no genius ever reach , his own severe conception .
He have catch from the duskiness of the future -- at least , so he fancy -- a fearful secret , and have obscurely reveal it on the portrait .
