`` I have , and be just come up to tell you , for I be sure you would be glad .
It be only a hope , a chance , but it be so splendid I feel a if I must shout and dance , or fly over a fence or two , to let off steam . ''
`` Do tell me , quick ; have you get an order ? ''
ask Merry , full of interest at once , for artistic vicissitude be very romantic , and she like to hear about them .
`` I may go abroad in the autumn . ''
`` Oh , how lovely ! ''
`` Is n't it ?
David German be go to spend a year in Rome , to finish a statue , and want me to go along .
Grandma be willing , a cousin Maria want her for a long visit , so everything look promise and I really think I may go . ''
`` Wo n't it cost a great deal ? ''
ask Merry , who , in spite of her little elegancies , have a good deal of her thrifty mother 's common sense .
`` Yes ; and I 've get to earn it .
But I can -- I know I can , for I 've save some , and I shall work like ten beaver all summer .
I wo n't borrow if I can help it , but I know someone who would lend me five hundred if I want it ; '' and Ralph look a eager and secure a if the earning of twice that sum be a mere trifle when all the longing of his life be put into his daily task .
`` I wish I have it to give you .
It must be so splendid to feel that you can do great thing if you only have the chance .
And to travel , and see all the lovely picture and statue , and people and place in Italy .
How happy you must be ! ''
and Merry 's eye have the wistful look they always wear when she dream dream of the world she love to live in .
`` I be -- so happy that I 'm afraid it never will happen .
If I do go , I 'll write and tell you all about the fine sight , and how I get on .
Would you like me to ? ''
ask Ralph , begin enthusiastically and end rather bashfully , for he admire Merry very much , and be not quite sure how this proposal would be receive .
`` Indeed I should !
I 'd feel so grand to have letter from Paris and Rome , and you 'd have so much to tell it would be almost as good a go myself , '' she say , look off into the daffodil sky , a they pause a minute on the hill-top to get breath , for both have walk as fast a they talk .
`` And will you answer the letter ? ''
ask Ralph , watch the innocent face , which look unusually kind and beautiful to him in that soft light .
`` Why , yes ; I 'd love to , only I shall not have anything interesting to say .
What can I write about ? ''
and Merry smile a she think how dull her letter would sound after the exciting detail his would doubtless give .
`` Write about yourself , and all the rest of the people I know .
Grandma will be go , and I shall want to hear how you get on . ''
Ralph look very anxious indeed to hear , and Merry promise she would tell all about the other people , add , a she turn from the even peace and loveliness to the house , whence come the clatter of milk-pans and the smell of cooking , -- `` I never should have anything very nice to tell about myself , for I do n't do interesting thing a you do , and you would n't care to hear about school , and sewing , and mess round at home . ''
Merry give a disdainful little sniff at the savory perfume of ham which salute them , and pause with her hand on the gate , a if she find it pleasanter out there than in the house .
Ralph seem to agree with her , for , lean on the gate , he linger to say , with real sympathy in his tone and something else in his face , `` Yes , I should ; so you write and tell me all about it .
I do n't know you have any worry , for you always seem like one of the happy people in the world , with so many to pet and care for you , and plenty of money , and nothing very hard or hateful to do .
You 'd think you be well off if you know as much about poverty and work and never get what you want , a I do . ''
`` You bear your worry so well that nobody know you have them .
I ought not to complain , and I wo n't , for I do have all I need .
I 'm so glad you be go to get what you want at last ; '' and Merry hold out her hand to say good-night , with so much pleasure in her face that Ralph could not make up his mind to go just yet .
`` I shall have to scratch round in a lively way before I do get it , for David say a fellow ca n't live on less than four or five hundred a year , even live a poor artist have to , in garret and on crust .
I do n't mind as long a Grandma be all right .
She be away to-night , or I should not be here , '' he add , a if some excuse be necessary .
Merry need no hint , for her tender heart be touch by the vision of her friend in a garret , and she suddenly rejoice that there be ham and egg for supper , so that he might be well feed once , at least , before he go away to fee on artistic crust .
`` Being here , come in and spend the evening .
The boy will like to hear the news , and so will father .
Do , now . ''
It be impossible to refuse the invitation he have be long for , and in they go to the great delight of Roxy , who instantly retire to the pantry , smile significantly , and bring out the most elaborate pie in honor of the occasion .
Merry touch up the table , and put a little vase of flower in the middle to redeem the vulgarity of doughnut .
Of course the boy upset it , but a there be company nothing be say , and Ralph devour his supper with the appetite of a hungry boy , while watch Merry eat bread and cream out of an old-fashioned silver porringer , and think it the sweet sight he ever behold .
Then the young people gather about the table , full of the new plan , and the elder listen a they rest after the week 's work .
A pleasant evening , for they all like Ralph , but a the parent watch Merry sit among the great lad like a little queen among her subject , half unconscious a yet of the power in her hand , they nod to one another , and then shake their head a if they say , -- `` I 'm afraid the time be come , mother . ''
`` No danger as long a she do n't know it , father . ''
At nine the boy go off to the barn , the farmer to wind up the eight-day clock , and the housewife to see how the baked bean and Indian pudding for to-morrow be get on in the oven .
Ralph take up his hat to go , say a he look at the shade on the tall student lamp , -- `` What a good light that give !
I can see it a I go home every night , and it burn up here like a beacon .
I always look for it , and it hardly ever fail to be burn .
Sort of cheer up the way , you know , when I 'm tired or low in my mind . ''
`` Then I 'm very glad I get it .
I like the shape , but the boy laugh at it a they do at my bulrush in a ginger-jar over there .
I 'd be read about ` household art , ' and I think I 'd try a little , '' answer Merry , laugh at her own whim .
`` You 've get a good sort of household art , I think , for you make people happy and place pretty , without fuss over it .
This room be ever so much improve every time I come , though I hardly see what it be except the flower , '' say Ralph , look from the girl to the tall calla that bend it white cup above her a if to pour it dew upon her head .
`` Is n't that lovely ?
I try to draw it -- the shape be so graceful I want to keep it .
But I could n't .
Is n't it a pity such beautiful thing wo n't last forever ? ''
and Merry look regretfully at the half-faded one that grow beside the fresh blossom .
`` I can keep it for you .
It would look well in plaster .
May I ? ''
ask Ralph .
`` Thank you , I should like that very much .
Take the real one a a model -- please do ; there be more coming , and this will brighten up your room for a day or two . ''
As she speak , Merry cut the stem , and , add two or three of the great green leaf , put the handsome flower in his hand with so much good-will that he felt a if he have receive a very precious gift .
Then he say good-night so gratefully that Merry 's hand quite tingle with the grasp of his , and go away , often look backward through the darkness to where the light burn brightly on the hill-top -- the beacon kindle by an unconscious Hero for a young Leander swim gallantly against wind and tide toward the goal of his ambition .
Chapter XVII .
Down at Molly 's `` Now , my dear , I 've something very curious to tell you , so listen quietly and then I 'll give you your dinner , '' say Molly , address the nine cat who come troop after her a she go into the shed-chamber with a bowl of milk and a plate of scrap in her hand .
She have teach them to behave well at meal , so , though their eye glare and their tail quiver with impatience , they obey ; and when she put the food on a high shelf and retire to the big basket , the four old cat sit demurely down before her , while the five kit scramble after her and tumble into her lap , a if hop to hasten the desire feast by their innocent gambol .
Granny , Tobias , Mortification , and Molasses be the elder .
Granny , a gray old pus , be the mother and grandmother of all the rest .
Tobias be her eldest son , and Mortification his brother , so name because he have lose his tail , which affliction depress his spirit and cast a blight over his young life .
Molasses be a yellow cat , the mamma of four of the kit , the fifth be Granny 's late darling .
Toddlekins , the little aunt , be the image of her mother , and very sedate even at that early age ; Miss Muffet , so call from her dread of spider , be a timid black and white kit ; Beauty , a pretty Maltese , with a serene little face and pink nose ; Ragbag , a funny thing , every color that a cat could be ; and Scamp , who well deserve his name , for he be the plague of Miss Bat 's life , and Molly 's especial pet .
He be now perch on her shoulder , and , a she talk , keep peep into her face or bite her ear in the most impertinent way , while the others sprawl in her lap or promenade round the basket rim .
`` My friend , something very remarkable have happen : Miss Bat be clean house ! ''
and , have make this announcement , Molly lean back to see how the cat receive it , for she insist that they understand all she say to them .
Tobias star , Mortification lay down a if it be too much for him , Molasses beat her tail on the floor a if whip a dusty carpet , and Granny begin to purr approvingly .
The giddy kit pay no attention , a they do not know what house-cleaning meant , happy little dear !
`` I think you 'd like it , Granny , for you be a decent cat , and know what be proper , '' continue Molly , lean down to stroke the old pus , who blink affectionately at her .
`` I ca n't imagine what put it into Miss Bat 's head .
I never say a word , and give up groaning over the clutter , a I could n't mend it .
I just take care of Boo and myself , and leave her to be as untidy a she please , and she be a regular old -- '' Here Scamp put his paw on her lip because he saw them move , but it seem a if it be to check the disrespectful word just come out .
`` Well , I wo n't call name ; but what shall I do when I see everything in confusion , and she wo n't let me clear up ? ''
ask Molly , look round at Scamp , who promptly put the little paw on her eyelid , a if the roll of the blue ball underneath amuse him .
`` Shut my eye to it , you mean ?
I do all I can , but it be hard , when I wish to be nice , and do try ; do n't I ? ''
ask Molly .
But Scamp be ready for her , and begin to comb her hair with both paw a he stand on his hind leg to work so busily that Molly laugh and pull him down , say , a she cuddle the sly kit .
`` You sharp little thing !
I know my hair be not neat now , for I 've be chase Boo round the garden to wash him for school .
Then Miss Bat throw the parlor carpet out of the window , and I be so surprised I have to run and tell you .
Now , what have we well do about it ? ''
The cat all wink at her , but no one have any advice to offer , except Tobias , who walk to the shelf , and , look up , utter a deep , suggestive yowl , which say a plainly a word , `` Dinner first and discussion afterward . ''
`` Very well , do n't scramble , '' say Molly , get up to fee her pet .
First the kit , who rush at the bowl and thrust their head in , lap a if for a wager ; then the cat , who each go to one of the four pile of scrap lay round at interval and placidly eat their meat ; while Molly retire to the basket , to ponder over the phenomenon take place in the house .
She could not imagine what have start the old lady .
It be not the example of her neighbor , who have beat carpet and scrub paint every spring for year without excite her to any great exertion than clean a few window and have a man to clear away the rubbish displayed when the snow melt .
Molly never guess that her own effort be at the bottom of the change , or know that a few word not mean for her ear have sham Miss Bat into action .
Coming home from prayer-meeting one dark night , she trot along behind two old lady who be gossip in loud voice , a one be rather deaf , and Miss Bat be both pleased and troubled to hear herself unduly praise .
`` I always say Sister Dawes meant well ; but she 's get into year , and the care of two child be a good deal for her , with her cooking and her rheumatiz .
I do n't deny she do neglect 'em for a spell , but she do well by 'em now , and I would n't wish to see better-appearing child . ''
`` You 've no idee how improved Molly be .
She come in to see my girl , and bring her sewing-work , shirt for the boy , and do it a neat and capable a you 'd wish to see .
She always be a smart child , but dreadful careless , '' say the other old lady , evidently much impress by the change in harum-scarum Molly Loo .
`` Being over to Mis Minot 's so much have be good for her , and up to Mis Grant 's .
Girls catch neat way as quick a they do untidy one , and them wild little tyke often turn out smart woman . ''
`` Sister Dawes have do well by them child , and I hope Mr. Bemis see it .
He ought to give her something comfortable to live on when she ca n't do for him any longer .
He can well afford it . ''
`` I have n't a doubt he will .
He 's a lavish man when he start to do a thing , but dreadful unobserving , else he 'd have see to matter long ago .
Them child be town-talk last fall , and I use to feel a if it be my bounden duty to speak to Miss Dawes .
But I never do , fear I might speak too plain , and hurt her feeling . ''
`` You 've speak plain enough now , and I 'm beholden to you , though you 'll never know it , '' say Miss Bat to herself , a she slip into her own gate , while the gossip trudge on quite unconscious of the listener behind them .
Miss Bat be a worthy old soul in the main , only , like so many of u , she need rouse up to her duty .
She have get the rousing now , and it do her good , for she could not bear to be praise when she have not deserve it .
She have watch Molly 's effort with lazy interest , and when the girl give up meddling with her affair , a she call the housekeeping , Miss Bat cease to oppose her , and let her scrub Boo , mend clothes , and brush her hair as much a she like .
So Molly have work along without any help from her , run in to Mrs. Pecq for advice , to Merry for comfort , or Mrs. Minot for the high kind of help one often need so much .
Now Miss Bat find that she be get the credit and the praise belonging to other people , and it stir her up to try and deserve a part at least .
`` Molly do n't want any help about her work or the boy : it 's too late for that ; but if this house do n't get a spring cleaning that will make it shine , my name ai n't Bathsheba Dawes , '' say the old lady , a she put away her bonnet that night , and lay energetic plan for a grand revolution , inspire thereto not only by shame , but by the hint that `` Mr. Bemis be a lavish man , '' a no one know good than she .
Molly 's amazement next day at see carpet fly out of window , ancient cobweb come down , and long-undisturbed closet rout out to the great dismay of moth and mouse , have be already confide to the cat , and a she sit there watch them lap and gnaw , she say to herself , -- `` I do n't understand it , but a she never say much to me about my affair , I wo n't take any notice till she get through , then I 'll admire everything all I can .
It be so pleasant to be praise after you 've be try hard . ''
She might well say that , for she get very little herself , and her trial have be many , her effort not always successful , and her reward seem a long way off .
Poor Boo could have sympathize with her , for he have suffer much persecution from his small schoolmate when he appear with large gray patch on the little brown trouser , where he have wear them out coast down those too fascinating step .
As he could not see the patch himself , he fancy them invisible , and come home much afflict by the jeer of his friend .
Then Molly try to make him a new pair out of a sack of her own ; but she cut both side for the same leg , so one be wrong side out .
Fondly hop no one would observe it , she sew bright button wherever they could be put , and send confide Boo away in a pair of blue trouser , which be absurdly hunchy behind and buttony before .
He come home heart-broken and muddy , have be accidentally tip into a mud-puddle by two bad boy who felt that such tailoring be an insult to mankind .
That rouse Molly 's spirit , and she beg her father to take the boy and have him properly fit out , a he be old enough now to be well-dressed , and she would n't have him torment .
His attention be call to the trouser , Mr. Bemis have a good laugh over them , and then get Boo a suit which cause him to be the admire of all observer , and to feel as proud a a little peacock .
Cheered by this success , Molly undertake a set of small shirt , and stitch away bravely , though her own summer clothes be in a sad state , and for the first time in her life she care about what she should wear .
`` I must ask Merry , and may be father will let me go with her and her mother when they do their shopping , instead of leave it to Miss Bat , who dress me like an old woman .
Merry know what be pretty and become : I do n't , '' think Molly , meditate in the bushel basket , with her eye on her snuff-colored gown and the dark purple bow at the end of the long braid Muffet have be play with .
Molly be begin to see that even so small a matter a the choice of color make a difference in one 's appearance , and to wonder why Merry always take such pain to have a blue tie for the gray dress , a rosy one for the brown , and glove that match her bonnet ribbon .
Merry never wear a locket outside her sack , a gay bow in her hair and soil cuff , a smart hat and the braid wear off her skirt .
She be exquisitely neat and simple , yet always look well-dressed and pretty ; for her love of beauty teach her what all girl should learn as soon a they begin to care for appearance -- that neatness and simplicity be their best ornament , that good habit be good than fine clothes , and the most elegant manner be the kind .
All these thought be dance through Molly 's head , and when she leave her cat , after a general romp in which even decorous Granny allow her family to play leap-frog over her respectable back , she have make up her mind not to have yellow ribbon on her summer hat if she get a pink muslin a she have plan , but to finish off Boo 's last shirt before she go shop with Merry .
It rain that evening , and Mr. Bemis have a headache , so he throw himself down upon the lounge after tea for a nap , with his silk handkerchief spread over his face .
He do get a nap , and when he wake he lay for a time drowsily listen to the patter of the rain , and another sound which be even more soothing .
Putting back a corner of the handkerchief to learn what it be , he saw Molly sit by the fire with Boo in her lap , rock and hum a she warm his little bare foot , have learn to guard against croup by attend to the damp shoe and sock before go to bed .
Boo lay with his round face turn up to hers , stroke her cheek while the sleepy blue eye blink lovingly at her a she sing her lullaby with a motherly patience sweet to see .
They make a pretty little picture , and Mr. Bemis look at it with pleasure , have a leisure moment in which to discover , a all parent do sooner or later , that his child be grow up .
`` Molly be get to be quite a woman , and very like her mother , '' think papa , wipe the eye that peep , for he have be fond of the pretty wife who die when Boo be bear .
`` Sad loss to them , poor thing !
But Miss Bat seem to have do well by them .
Molly be much improve , and the boy look finely .
She 's a good soul , after all ; '' and Mr. Bemis begin to think he have be hasty when he half make up his mind to get a new housekeeper , feel that burnt steak , weak coffee , and rag wristband be sure sign that Miss Bat 's day of usefulness be over .
Molly be sing the lullaby her mother use to sing to her , and her father listen to it silently till Boo be carry away too sleepy for anything but bed .
When she come back she sit down to her work , fancy her father still asleep .
She have a crimson bow at her throat and one on the newly braid hair , her cuff be clean , and a white apron hide the shabbiness of the old dress .
She look like a thrifty little housewife a she sit with her basket beside her full of neat white roll , her spool set forth , and a new pair of scissors shin on the table .
There be a sort of charm in watch the busy needle flash to and fro , the anxious pucker of the forehead a she look to see if the stitch be even , and the expression of intense relief upon her face a she survey the finish button-hole with girlish satisfaction .
Her father be wide awake and look at her , think , a he do so , -- `` Really the old lady have work well to change my tomboy into that nice little girl : I wonder how she do it . ''
Then he give a yawn , pull off the handkerchief , and say aloud , `` What be you make , Molly ? ''
for it strike him that sew be a new amusement .
`` Shirts for Boo , sir .
Four , and this be the last , '' she answer , with pardonable pride , a she hold it up and nodded toward the pile in her basket .
`` Is n't that a new notion ?
I think Miss Bat do the sewing , '' say Mr. Bemis , a he smile at the funny little garment , it look so like Boo himself .
`` No , sir ; only yours .
I do mine and Boo 's .
At least , I 'm learn how , and Mrs. Pecq say I get on nicely , '' answer Molly , thread her needle and make a knot in her most capable way .
`` I suppose it be time you do learn , for you be get to be a great girl , and all woman should know how to make and mend .
You must take a stitch for me now and then : Miss Bat 's eye be not what they be , I find ; '' and Mr. Bemis look at his frayed wristband , a if he particularly felt the need of a stitch just then .
`` I 'd love to , and I guess I could .
I can mend glove ; Merry teach me , so I 'd better begin on them , if you have any , '' say Molly , much please at be able to do anything for her father , and still more so at be ask .
`` There 's something to start with ; '' and he throw her a pair , with nearly every finger rip .
Molly shake her head over them , but get out her gray silk and fell to work , glad to show how well she could sew .
`` What be you smile about ? ''
ask her father , after a little pause , for his head felt well , and it amuse him to question Molly .
`` I be think about my summer clothes .
I must get them before long , and I 'd like to go with Mrs. Grant and learn how to shop , if you be willing . ''
`` I think Miss Bat do that for you . ''
`` She always have , but she get ugly , cheap thing that I do n't like .
I think I be old enough to choose myself , if there be someone to tell me about price and the goodness of the stuff .
Merry do ; and she be only a few month old than I be . ''
`` How old be you , child ? ''
ask her father , feeling a if he have lose his reckoning .
`` Fifteen in August ; '' and Molly look very proud of the fact .
`` So you be !
Bless my heart , how the time go !
Well , get what you please ; if I 'm to have a young lady here , I 'd like to have her prettily dress .
It wo n't offend Miss Bat , will it ? ''
Molly 's eye sparkle , but she give a little shrug a she answer , `` She wo n't care .
She never trouble herself about me if I let her alone .
`` Hey ?
what ?
Not trouble herself ?
If she do n't , who do ? ''
and Mr. Bemis sit up a if this discovery be more surprising than the other .
`` I take care of myself and Boo , and she look after you .
The house go any way . ''
`` I should think so !
I nearly break my neck over the parlor sofa in the hall to-night .
What be it there for ? ''
Molly laugh .
`` That 's the joke , sir , Miss Bat be clean house , and I 'm sure it need cleaning , for it be year since it be properly do .
I think you might have tell her to . ''
`` I 've say nothing .
Do n't like house-cleaning well enough to suggest it .
I do think the hall be rather dirty when I drop my coat and take it up cover with lint .
Is she go to upset the whole place ? ''
ask Mr. Bemis , look alarm at the prospect .
`` I hope so , for I really be ashamed when people come , to have them see the dust and cobweb , and old carpet and dirty window , '' say Molly , with a sigh , though she never have care a bit till lately .
`` Why do n't you dust round a little , then ?
No time to spare from the book and play ? ''
`` I try , father , but Miss Bat do n't like it , and it be too hard for me alone .
If thing be once in nice order , I think I could keep them so ; for I do want to be neat , and I 'm learn as fast a I can . ''
`` It be high time someone take hold , if matter be leave a you say .
I 've just be think what a clever woman Miss Bat be , to make such a tidy little girl out of what I use to hear call the great tomboy in town , and wonder what I could give the old lady .
Now I find you be the one to be thank , and it be a very pleasant surprise to me . ''
`` Give her the present , please ; I 'm satisfied , if you like what I 've do .
It be n't much , and I do n't know a you would ever observe any difference .
But I do try , and now I guess I 'm really get on , '' say Molly , sew away with a bright color in her cheek , for she , too , find it a pleasant surprise to be praise after many failure and few success .
`` You certainly be , my dear .
I 'll wait till the house-cleaning be over , and then , if we be all alive , I 'll see about Miss Bat 's reward .
Meantime , you go with Mrs. Grant and get whatever you and the boy need , and send the bill to me ; '' and Mr. Bemis light a cigar , a if that matter be settle .
`` Oh , thank you , sir !
That will be splendid .
Merry always have pretty thing , and I know you will like me when I get fix , '' say Molly , smooth down her apron , with a little air .
`` Seems to me you look very well a you be .
Is n't that a pretty enough frock ? ''
ask Mr. Bemis , quite unconscious that his own unusual interest in his daughter 's affair make her look so bright and winsome .
`` This ?
Why , father , I 've wear it all winter , and it 's frightfully ugly , and almost in rag .
I ask you for a new one a month ago , and you say you 'd ` see about it ' ; but you do n't , so I patch this up as well a I could ; '' and Molly show her elbow , feel that such masculine blindness a this deserve a mild reproof .
`` Too bad !
Well , go and get half a dozen pretty muslin and gingham thing , and be as gay a a butterfly , to make up for it , '' laugh her father , really touch by the patch and Molly 's resignation to the unreliable `` I 'll see about it , '' which he recognize a a household word .
Molly clap her hand , old glove and all , exclaim , with girlish delight , `` How nice it will seem to have a plenty of new , neat dress all at once , and be like other girl !
Miss Bat always talk about economy , and have no more taste than a -- caterpillar . ''
Molly mean to say `` cat , '' but remember her pet , spar them the insult .
`` I think I can afford to dress my girl as well a Grant do his .
Get a new hat and coat , child , and any little notion you fancy .
Miss Bat 's economy be n't the sort I like ; '' and Mr. Bemis look at his wristband again , a if he could sympathize with Molly 's elbow .
`` At this rate , I shall have more clothes than I know what to do with , after be a rag-bag , '' think the girl , in great glee , a she bravely stitch away at the bad glove , while her father smoke silently for a while , feel that several little matter have escape his eye which he really ought to `` see about . ''
Presently he go to his desk , but not to bury himself in business paper , a usual , for , after rummage in several drawer , he take out a small bunch of key , and sit look at them with an expression only see on his face when he look up at the portrait of a dark-eyed woman hang in his room .
He be a very busy man , but he have a tender place in his heart for his child ; and when a look , a few word , a moment 's reflection , call his attention to the fact that his little girl be grow up , he find both pride and pleasure in the thought that this young daughter be try to fill her mother 's place , and be a comfort to him , if he would let her .
`` Molly , my dear , here be something for you , '' he say ; and when she stand beside him , add , a he put the key into her hand , keep both in his own for a minute , -- `` Those be the key to your mother 's thing .
I always mean you to have them , when you be old enough to use or care for them .
I think you 'll fancy this good than any other present , for you be a good child , and very like her . ''
Something seem to get into his throat there , and Molly put her arm round his neck , say , with a little choke in her own voice , `` Thank you , father , I 'd rather have this than anything else in the world , and I 'll try to be more like her every day , for your sake . ''
He kiss her , then say , a he begin to stir his paper about , `` I must write some letter .
Run off to bed , child .
Good-night , my dear , good-night . ''
Seeing that he want to be alone , Molly slip away , feel that she have receive a very precious gift ; for she remember the dear , dead mother , and have often long to possess the relic lay away in the one room where order reign and Miss Bat have no power to meddle .
As she slowly undress , she be not think of the pretty new gown in which she be to be `` as gay a a butterfly , '' but of the half-worn garment wait for her hand to unfold with a tender touch ; and when she fell asleep , with the key under her pillow and her arm round Boo , a few happy tear on her cheek seem to show that , in try to do the duty which lay near her , she have earn a very sweet reward .
So the little missionary succeed well in their second attempt than in their first ; for , though still very far from be perfect girl , each be slowly learning , in her own way , one of the three lesson all be the good for knowing -- that cheerfulness can change misfortune into love and friend ; that in order one 's self aright one help others to do the same ; and that the power of find beauty in the humble thing make home happy and life lovely .
Chapter XVIII .
May Baskets Spring be late that year , but to Jill it seem the lovely she have ever know , for hope be grow green and strong in her own little heart , and all the world look beautiful .
With the help of the brace she could sit up for a short time every day , and when the air be mild enough she be warmly wrap and allow to look out at the open window into the garden , where the gold and purple crocus be come bravely up , and the snowdrop nod their delicate head a if call to her , -- `` Good day , little sister , come out and play with u , for winter be over and spring be here . ''
`` I wish I could ! ''
thought Jill , a the soft wind kiss a tinge of color into her pale cheek .
`` Never mind , they have be shut up in a darker place than I for month , and have no fun at all ; I wo n't fret , but think about July and the seashore while I work . ''
The job now in hand be May basket , for it be the custom of the child to hang them on the door of their friend the night before May-day ; and the girl have agree to supply basket if the boy would hunt for flower , much the hard task of the two .
Jill have more leisure as well a taste and skill than the other girl , so she amuse herself with make a goodly store of pretty basket of all shape , size , and color , quite confident that they would be fill , though not a flower have show it head except a few hardy dandelion , and here and there a small cluster of saxifrage .
The violet would not open their blue eye till the sunshine be warm , the columbine refuse to dance with the boisterous east wind , the fern keep themselves roll up in their brown flannel jacket , and little Hepatica , with many another spring beauty , hide away in the wood , afraid to venture out , in spite of the eager welcome await them .
But the bird have come , punctual a ever , and the bluejays be scream in the orchard , robin be perk up their head and tail a they go house-hunting , purple finch in their little red hood be feast on the spruce bud , and the faithful chip bird chirp gayly on the grapevine trellis where they have live all winter , warm their little gray breast against the southern side of the house when the sun shone , and hide under the evergreen bough when the snow fell .
`` That tree be a sort of bird 's hotel , '' say Jill , look out at the tall spruce before her window , every spray now tip with a soft green .
`` They all go there to sleep and eat , and it have room for every one .
It be green when other tree die , the wind ca n't break it , and the snow only make it look pretty .
It sing to me , and nod a if it know I love it . ''
`` We might call it ` The Holly Tree Inn , ' a some of the cheap eating-houses for poor people be call in the city , a my holly bush grows at it foot for a sign .
You can be the landlady , and fee your feathery customer every day , till the hard time be over , '' say Mrs. Minot , glad to see the child 's enjoyment of the out world from which she have be shut so long .
Jill like the fancy , and gladly strew crumb on the window ledge for the chippies , who come confidingly to eat almost from her hand .
She throw out grain for the handsome jay , the jaunty robins , and the neighbor ' dove , who come with soft flight to trip about on their pink foot , arch their shining neck a they coo and peck .
Carrots and cabbage-leaves also fly out of the window for the marauding gray rabbit , last of all Jack 's half-dozen , who lead him a weary life of it because they would not stay in the Bunny-house , but undermine the garden with their burrow , eat the neighbor ' plant , and refuse to be catch till all but one ran away , to Jack 's great relief .
This old fellow camp out for the winter , and seem to get on very well among the cat and the hen , who share their store with him , and he might be see at all hour of the day and night scamper about the place , or kick up his heel by moonlight , for he be a desperate poacher .
Jill take great delight in her pretty pensioner , who soon learn to love `` The Holly Tree Inn , '' and to feel that the Bird Room hold a caged comrade ; for , when it be too cold or wet to open the window , the dove come and tap at the pane , the chippies sit on the ledge in plump little bunch a if she be their sunshine , the jay call her in their shrill voice to ring the dinner-bell , and the robin tilt on the spruce boughs where lunch be always to be have .
The first of May come on Sunday , so all the celebrating must be do on Saturday , which happily prove fair , though too chilly for muslin gown , paper garland , and picnic on damp grass .
Being a holiday , the boy decide to devote the morning to ball and the afternoon to the flower hunt , while the girl finish the basket ; and in the evening our particular seven be to meet at the Minots to fill them , ready for the closing frolic of hang on door-handles , ring bell , and run away .
`` Now I must do my Maying , for there will be no more sunshine , and I want to pick my flower before it be dark .
Come , Mammy , you go too , '' say Jill , a the last sunbeams shone in at the western window where her hyacinth stand that no foster ray might be lose .
It be rather pathetic to see the once merry girl who use to be the life of the wood-parties now carefully lift herself from the couch , and , lean on her mother 's strong arm , slowly take the half-dozen step that make up her little expedition .
But she be happy , and stand smile out at old Bun skip down the walk , the gold-edged cloud that draw apart so that a sunbeam might give her a good-night kiss a she gather her long-cherished daisy , primrose , and hyacinth to fill the pretty basket in her hand .
`` Who be it for , my dearie ? ''
ask her mother , stand behind her a a prop , while the thin finger do their work so willingly that not a flower be leave .
`` For My Lady , of course .
Who else would I give my posy to , when I love them so well ? ''
answer Jill , who think no name too fine for their best friend .
`` I fancy it would be for Master Jack , '' say her mother , wish the excursion to be a cheerful one .
`` I 've another for him , but she must have the prettiest .
He be go to hang it for me , and ring and run away , and she wo n't know who it 's from till she see this .
She will remember it , for I 've be turn and tend it ever so long , to make it bloom to-day .
Is n't it a beauty ? ''
and Jill hold up her fine hyacinth , which seem to ring it pale pink bell a if glad to carry it sweet message from a grateful little heart .
`` Indeed it be ; and you be right to give your best to her .
Come away now , you must not stand any long .
Come and rest while I fetch a dish to put the flower in till you want them ; '' and Mrs. Pecq turn her round with her small Maying safely do .
`` I do n't think I 'd ever be able to do even so much , and here I be walk and sit up , and go to drive some day .
Is n't it nice that I 'm not to be a poor Lucinda after all ? ''
and Jill draw a long sigh of relief that six month instead of twenty year would probably be the end of her captivity .
`` Yes , thank Heaven !
I do n't think I could have bear that ; '' and the mother take Jill in her arm a if she be a baby , hold her close for a minute , and lay her down with a tender kiss that make the arm cling about her neck a her little girl return it heartily , for all sort of new , sweet feeling seem to be bud in both , born of great joy and thankfulness .
Then Mrs. Pecq hurry away to see about tea for the hungry boy , and Jill watch the pleasant twilight deepen a she lay sing to herself one of the song her friend teach her because it fit her so well .
`` A little bird I be , Shut from the field of air , And in my cage I sit and sing To Him who place me there : Well please a prisoner to be , Because , my God , it please Thee !
`` Naught have I else to do ; I sing the whole day long ; And He whom most I love to please Doth listen to my song , He catch and bound my wander wing , But still He bend to hear me sing . ''
`` Now we be ready for you , so bring on your flower , '' say Molly to the boy , a she and Merry add their store of basket to the gay show Jill have set forth on the long table ready for the evening 's work .
`` They would n't let me see one , but I guess they have have good luck , they look so jolly , '' answer Jill , look at Gus , Frank , and Jack , who stand laughing , each with a large basket in his hand .
`` Fair to middling .
Just look in and see ; '' with which cheerful remark Gus tip up his basket and display a few bit of green at the bottom .
`` I do well .
Now , do n't all scream at once over these beauty ; '' and Frank shake out some evergreen sprig , half a dozen saxifrage , and two or three forlorn violet with hardly any stem .
`` I do n't brag , but here 's the best of all the three , '' chuckle Jack , produce a bunch of feathery carrot-tops , with a few half-shut dandelion try to look brave and gay .
`` Oh , boy , be that all ? ''
`` What shall we do ? ''
`` We 've only a few house-flowers , and all those basket to fill , '' cry the girl , in despair ; for Merry 's contribution have be small , and Molly have only a handful of artificial flower `` to fill up , '' she say .
`` It be n't our fault : it be the late spring .
We ca n't make flower , can we ? ''
ask Frank , in a tone of calm resignation .
`` Could n't you buy some , then ? ''
say Molly , smooth her crumpled morning-glories , with a sigh .
`` Who ever heard of a fellow have any money leave the last day of the month ? ''
demand Gus , severely .
`` Or girl either .
I spend all mine in ribbon and paper for my basket , and now they be of no use .
It 's a shame ! ''
lament Jill , while Merry begin to thin out her full basket to fill the empty one .
`` Hold on ! ''
cried Frank , relent .
`` Now , Jack , make their mind easy before they begin to weep and wail . ''
`` Left the box outside .
You tell while I go for it ; '' and Jack bolt , a if afraid the young lady might be too demonstrative when the tale be tell .
`` Tell away , '' say Frank , modestly pass the story along to Gus , who make short work of it .
`` We rampage all over the country , and get only that small mess of green .
Knew you 'd be disgust , and sit down to see what we could do .
Then Jack pip up , and say he 'd show u a place where we could get a plenty .
` Come on , ' say we , and after lead u a nice tramp , he bring u out at Morse 's greenhouse .
So we get a few on tick , a we have but four cent among u , and there you be .
Pretty clever of the little chap , be n't it ? ''
A chorus of delight greet Jack a he pop his head in , be promptly seize by his elder and walk up to the table , where the box be open , display gay posy enough to fill most of the basket if distribute with great economy and much green .
`` You be the dear boy that ever be ! ''
begin Jill , with her nose luxuriously bury in the box , though the flower be more remarkable for color than perfume .
`` No , I 'm not ; there 's a much dear one come upstairs now , and he 's get something that will make you howl for joy , '' say Jack , ignore his own prowess a Ed come in with a big box , look a if he have do nothing but go a Maying all his day .
`` Do n't believe it ! ''
cry Jill , hug her own treasure jealously .
`` It 's only another joke .
I wo n't look , '' say Molly , still struggle to make her cambric rose bloom again .
`` I know what it be !
Oh , how sweet ! ''
added Merry , sniff , a Ed set the box before her , say pleasantly , -- `` You shall see first , because you have faith . ''
Up go the cover , and a whiff of the fresh fragrance regale the seven eager nose bent to inhale it , a a general murmur of pleasure greet the nest of great , rosy mayflower that lay before them .
`` The dear thing , how lovely they be ! ''
and Merry look a if greet her cousin , so blooming and sweet be her own face .
Molly push her dingy garland away , ashamed of such poor attempt beside these perfect work of nature , and Jill stretch out her hand involuntarily , a she say , forget her exotics , `` Give me just one to smell of , it be so woodsy and delicious . ''
`` Here you be , plenty for all .
Real Pilgrim Fathers , right from Plymouth .
One of our fellow live there , and I tell him to bring me a good lot ; so he do , and you can do what you like with them , '' explain Ed , pass round bunch and shake the rest in a mossy pile upon the table .
`` Ed always get ahead of u in do the right thing at the right time .
Hope you 've get some first-class basket ready for him , '' say Gus , refresh the Washingtonian nose with a pink blossom or two .
`` Not much danger of his be forget , '' answer Molly ; and every one laugh , for Ed be much beloved by all the girl , and his door-steps always bloom like a flower-bed on May eve .
`` Now we must fly round and fill up .
Come , boys , sort out the green and hand u the flower a we want them .
Then we must direct them , and , by the time that be do , you can go and leave them , '' say Jill , set all to work .
`` Ed must choose his basket first .
These be ours ; but any of those you can have ; '' and Molly point to a detachment of gay basket , set apart from those already partly fill .
Ed choose a blue one , and Merry fill it with the rosy may-flowers , know that it be to hang on Mabel 's door-handle .
The others do the same , and the pretty work go on , with much fun , till all be fill , and ready for the name or note .
`` Let u have poetry , a we ca n't get wild flower .
That will be rather fine , '' propose Jill , who like jingle .
All have have some practice at the game party , and pencil go briskly for a few minute , while silence reign , a the poet rack their brain for rhyme , and star at the bloom array before them for inspiration .
`` Oh , dear !
I ca n't find a word to rhyme to ` geranium , ' '' sigh Molly , pull her braid , a if to pump the well of her fancy dry .
`` Cranium , '' say Frank , who be get on bravely with `` Annette '' and `` violet . ''
`` That be elegant ! ''
and Molly scribble away in great glee , for her poem be always funny one .
`` How do you spell anemoly -- the wild flower , I mean ? ''
ask Jill , who be try to compose a very appropriate piece for her best basket , and find it easy to feel love and gratitude than to put them into verse .
`` Anemone ; do spell it properly , or you 'll get laugh at , '' answer Gus , wildly struggle to make his line express great ardor , without be `` too spoony , '' a he express it .
`` No , I should n't .
This person never laugh at other person ' mistake , a some person do , '' reply Jill , with dignity .
Jack be desperately chew his pencil , for he could not get on at all ; but Ed have evidently prepare his poem , for his paper be half full already , and Merry be smile a she write a friendly line or two for Ralph 's basket , a she fear he would be forget , and know he love kindness even more than he do beauty .
`` Now let 's read them , '' propose Molly , who love to laugh even at herself .
The boy politely decline , and scramble their note into the chosen basket in great haste ; but the girl be less bashful .
Jill be invite to begin , and give her little piece , with the pink hyacinth basket before her , to illustrate her poem .
`` TO MY LADY `` There be no flower in the field , No green leave on the tree , No columbine , no violet , No sweet anemone .
So I have gather from my pot All that I have to fill The basket that I hang to-night , With heap of love from Jill . ''
`` That 's perfectly sweet !
Mine be n't ; but I mean it to be funny , '' say Molly , a if there could be any doubt about the following ditty : -- `` Dear Grif , Here be a whiff Of beautiful spring flower ; The big red rise Is for your nose , As toward the sky it tower .
`` Oh , do not frown Upon this crown Of green pink and blue geranium But think of me When this you see , And put it on your cranium . ''
`` O Molly , you will never hear the last of that if Grif get it , '' say Jill , a the applause subside , for the boy pronounce it `` tip-top . ''
`` Do n't care , he get the bad of it any way , for there be a pin in that rise , and if he go to smell the mayflower underneath he will find a thorn to pay for the tack he put in my rubber boot .
I know he will play me some joke to-night , and I mean to be first if I can , '' answer Molly , settle the artificial wreath round the orange-colored canoe which hold her effusion .
`` Now , Merry , read yours : you always have sweet poem ; '' and Jill fold her hand to listen with pleasure to something sentimental .
`` I ca n't read the poem in some of mine , because they be for you ; but this little verse you can hear , if you like : I 'm go to give that basket to Ralph .
He say he should hang one for his grandmother , and I think that be so nice of him , I 'd love to surprise him with one all to himself .
He 's always so good to u ; '' and Merry look so innocently earnest that no one smile at her kind thought or the unconscious paraphrase she have make of a famous stanza in her own `` little verse . ''
`` To one who teach me The sweetness and the beauty Of do faithfully And cheerfully my duty . ''
`` He will like that , and know who send it , for none of u have pretty pink paper but you , or write such an elegant hand , '' say Molly , admire the delicate white basket shape like a lily , with the flower inside and the note hidden among them , all daintily tie up with the pale blush-colored ribbon .
`` Well , that 's no harm .
He like pretty thing as much a I do , and I make my basket like a flower because I give him one of my calla , he admire the shape so much ; '' and Merry smile a she remember how pleased Ralph look a he go away carry the lovely thing .
`` I think it would be a good plan to hang some basket on the door of other people who do n't expect or often have any .
I 'll do it if you can spare some of these , we have so many .
Give me only one , and let the others go to old Mrs. Tucker , and the little Irish girl who have be sick so long , and lame Neddy , and Daddy Munson .
It would please and surprise them so .
Will we ? ''
ask Ed , in that persuasive voice of his .
All agree at once , and several people be make very happy by a bit of spring leave at their door by the May elf who haunt the town that night play all sort of prank .
Such a twanging of bell and rapping of knocker ; such a scampering of foot in the dark ; such droll collision a boy come race round corner , or girl run into one another 's arm a they creep up and down step on the sly ; such laughing , whistle , fly about of flower and friendly feeling -- it be almost a pity that May-day do not come oftener .
Molly get home late , and find that Grif have be before her , after all ; for she stumble over a market-basket at her door , and on take it in find a mammoth nosegay of purple and white cabbage , her favorite vegetable .
Even Miss Bat laugh at the funny sight , and Molly resolve to get Ralph to carve her a bouquet out of carrot , beet , and turnip for next time , a Grif would never think of that .
Merry run up the garden-walk alone , for Frank leave her at the gate , and be fumble for the latch when she felt something hang there .
Opening the door carefully , she find it gay with offering from her mate ; and among them be one long quiver-shaped basket of birch bark , with something heavy under the green leave that lay at the top .
Lifting these , a slender bas-relief of a calla lily in plaster appear , with this couplet slip into the blue cord by which it be to hang : -- `` That mercy you to others show That Mercy Grant to me . ''
`` How lovely !
and this one will never fade , but always be a pleasure hang there .
Now , I really have something beautiful all my own , '' say Merry to herself a she run up to hang the pretty thing on the dark wainscot of her room , where the graceful curve of it pointed leaf and the depth of it white cup would be a joy to her eye as long a they last .
`` I wonder what that mean , '' and Merry read over the line again , while a soft color come into her cheek and a little smile of girlish pleasure begin to dimple round her lip ; for she be so romantic , this touch of sentiment show her that her friendship be more value than she dream .
But she only say , `` How glad I be I remember him , and how surprised he will be to see mayflower in return for the lily . ''
He be , and work away more happily and bravely for the thought of the little friend whose eye would daily fall on the white flower which always remind him of her .
Chapter XIX .
Good Templars `` Hi there !
Bell 's rung !
Get up , lazy-bones ! ''
call Frank from his room a the clock strike six one bright morning , and a great creaking and stamping proclaim that he be astir .
`` All right , I 'm come , '' respond a drowsy voice , and Jack turn over a if to obey ; but there the effort end , and he be off again , for grow lad be hard to rouse , a many a mother know to her sorrow .
Frank make a beginning on his own toilet , and then take a look at his brother , for the stillness be suspicious .
`` I think so !
He tell me to wake him , and I guess this will do it ; '' and , fill his great sponge with water , Frank stalk into the next room and stood over the unconscious victim like a stern executioner , glad to unite business with pleasure in this agreeable manner .
A woman would have relent and try some milder mean , for when his broad shoulder and stout limb be hide , Jack look very young and innocent in his sleep .
Even Frank pause a moment to look at the round , rosy face , the curly eyelash , half-open mouth , and the peaceful expression of a dreaming baby .
`` I must do it , or he wo n't be ready for breakfast , '' say the Spartan brother , and down come the sponge , cold , wet , and choky , a it be briskly rub to and fro regardless of every obstacle .
`` Come , I say !
That 's not fair !
Leave me alone ! ''
sputter Jack , hit out so vigorously that the sponge fly across the room , and Frank fell back to laugh at the indignant sufferer .
`` I promise to wake you , and you believe in keep promise , so I 'm do my best to get you up . ''
`` Well , you need n't pour a quart of water down a fellow 's neck , and rub his nose off , need you ?
I 'm awake , so take your old sponge and go along , '' growl Jack , with one eye open and a mighty gape .
`` See that you keep so , then , or I 'll come and give you another sort of a rouser , '' say Frank , retire well-pleased with his success .
`` I shall have one good stretch , if I like .
It be strengthen to the muscle , and I 'm as stiff a a board with all that football yesterday , '' murmur Jack , lie down for one delicious moment .
He shut the open eye to enjoy it thoroughly , and forget the stretch altogether , for the bed be warm , the pillow soft , and a half-finished dream still hang about his drowsy brain .
Who do not know the fatal charm of that stolen moment -- for once yield to it , and one be lose .
Jack be mile away `` in the twinkling of a bedpost , '' and the pleasing dream seem about to return , when a ruthless hand tear off the clothes , sweep him out of bed , and he really do awake to find himself stand in the middle of his bath-pan with both window open , and Frank about to pour a pail of water over him .
`` Hold on !
Yah , how cold the water be !
Why , I think I be up ; '' and , hop out , Jack rub his eye and look about with such a genuine surprise that Frank put down the pail , feel that the deluge would not be need this time .
`` You be now , and I 'll see that you keep so , '' he say , a he strip the bed and carry off the pillow .
`` I do n't care .
What a jolly day ! ''
and Jack take a little promenade to finish the rousing process .
`` You 'd better hurry up , or you wo n't get your chore do before breakfast .
No time for a ` go a you please ' now , '' say Frank ; and both boy laugh , for it be an old joke of theirs , and rather funny .
Going up to bed one night expect to find Jack asleep , Frank discover him tramp round and round the room airily attire in a towel , and so dizzy with his brisk revolution that a his brother look he tumble over and lay pant like a fall gladiator .
`` What on earth be you about ? ''
`` Playing Rowell .
Walking for the belt , and I 've get it too , '' laugh Jack , point to an old gilt chandelier chain hang on the bedpost .
`` You little noodle , you 'd better revolve into bed before you lose your head entirely .
I never saw such a fellow for take himself off his leg . ''
`` Well , if I do n't exercise , do you suppose I should be able to do that -- or that ? ''
cry Jack , turn a somersault and strike a fine attitude a he come up , flatter himself that he be the model of a youthful athlete .
`` You look more like a clothes-pin than a Hercules , '' be the crush reply of this unsympathetic brother , and Jack meekly retire with a bad headache .
`` I do n't do such silly thing now : I 'm a broad across the shoulder a you be , and twice as strong on my pin , thanks to my gymnastics .
Bet you a cent I 'll be dress first , though you have get the start , '' say Jack , know that Frank always have a protracted wrestle with his collar-buttons , which give his adversary a great advantage over him .
`` Done ! ''
answered Frank , and at it they go .
A wild scramble be hear in Jack 's room , and a steady tramp in the other a Frank work away at the stiff collar and the unaccommodating button till every finger ache .
A clashing of boot follow , while Jack whistle `` Polly Hopkins , '' and Frank declaim in his deepest voice , `` Arma virumque cano , Trojae qui primus ab oris Italiam , fato profugus , Laviniaque venit litora . ''
Hair-brushes come next , and here Frank get ahead , for Jack 's thick crop would stand straight up on the crown , and only a good wetting and a steady brush would make it lie down .
`` Play away , No . 2 , '' call out Frank a he put on his vest , while Jack be still at it with a pair of the stiff brush procurable for money .
`` Hold hard , No . 11 , and do n't forget your teeth , '' answer Jack , who have do his .
Frank take a hasty rub and whisk on his coat , while Jack be pick up the various treasure which have fly out of his pocket a he catch up his roundabout .
`` Ready !
I 'll trouble you for a cent , sonny ; '' and Frank hold out his hand a he appear equip for the day .
`` You have n't hang up your night-gown , nor air the bed , nor open the window .
That 's part of the dressing ; mother say so .
I 've get you there , for you do all that for me , except this , '' and Jack throw his gown over a chair with a triumphant flourish a Frank turn back to leave his room in the order which they have be teach be one of the sign of a good bringing-up in boy as well a girl .
`` Ready !
I 'll trouble you for a cent , old man ; '' and Jack hold out his hand , with a chuckle .
He get the money and a good clap beside ; then they retire to the shed to black their boot , after which Frank fill the woodboxes and Jack split kindling , till the daily allowance be ready .
Both go at their lesson for half an hour , Jack scowl over his algebra in the sofa corner , while Frank , with his elbow on and his legs round the little stand which hold his book , seem to be have a wrestling-match with Herodotus .
When the bell rang they be glad to drop the lesson and fall upon their breakfast with the appetite of wolf , especially Jack , who sequester oatmeal and milk with such rapidity that one would have think he have a leathern bag hidden somewhere to slip it into , like his famous namesake when he breakfast with the giant .
`` I declare I do n't see what he do with it !
He really ought not to ` gobble ' so , mother , '' say Frank , who be eat with great deliberation and propriety .
`` Never you mind , old quiddle .
I 'm so hungry I could tuck away a bushel , '' answer Jack , empty a glass of milk and hold out his plate for more mush , regardless of his white moustache .
`` Temperance in all thing be wise , in speech as well a eating and drinking -- remember that , boy , '' say Mamma from behind the urn .
`` That remind me !
We promise to do the ` Observer ' this week , and here it be Tuesday and I have n't do a thing : have you ? ''
ask Frank .
`` Never think of it .
We must look up some bit at noon instead of play .
Dare say Jill have get some : she always save all she find for me . ''
`` I have one or two good item , and can do any copying there may be .
But I think if you undertake the paper you should give some time and labor to make it good , '' say Mamma , who be use to this state of affair , and often edit the little sheet read every week at the Lodge .
The boy seldom miss go , but the busy lady be often unable to be there , so help with the paper a her share of the labor .
`` Yes , we ought , but somehow we do n't seem to get up much steam about it lately .
If more people belong , and we could have a grand time now and then , it would be jolly ; '' and Jack sigh at the lack of interest felt by outsider in the loyal little Lodge which go on year after year keep up by the faithful few .
`` I remember when in this very town we use to have a Cold Water Army , and in the summer turn out with procession , banner , and band of music to march about , and end with a picnic , song , and speech in some grove or hall .
Nearly all the child belong to it , and the parent also , and we have fine time here twenty-five or thirty year ago . ''
`` It do n't do much good , seem to me , for people still drink , and we have n't a decent hotel in the place , '' say Frank , a his mother sit look out of the window a if she saw again the pleasant sight of old and young work together against the great enemy of home peace and safety .
`` Oh yes , it do , my dear ; for to this day many of those child be true to their pledge .
One little girl be , I be sure , and now have two big boy to fight for the reform she have uphold all her life .
The town be good than it be in those day , and if we each do our part faithfully , it will improve yet more .
Every boy and girl who join be one gain , perhaps , and your example be the best temperance lecture you can give .
Hold fast , and do n't mind if it be n't ` jolly ' : it be right , and that should be enough for u . ''
Mamma speak warmly , for she heartily believe in young people 's guard against this dangerous vice before it become a temptation , and hop her boy would never break the pledge they have take ; for , young a they be , they be old enough to see it worth , feel it wisdom , and pride themselves on the promise which be fast grow into a principle .
Jack 's face brighten a he listen , and Frank say , with the steady look which make his face manly , -- `` It shall be .
Now I 'll tell you what I be go to keep a a surprise till to-night , for I want to have my secret as well a other folk .
Ed and I go up to see Bob , Sunday , and he say he 'd join the Lodge , if they 'd have him .
I 'm go to propose him to-night . ''
`` Good !
good ! ''
cry Jack , joyfully , and Mrs. Minot clap her hand , for every new member be rejoice over by the good people , who be not discourage by ridicule , indifference , or opposition .
`` We 've get him now , for no one will object , and it be just the thing for him .
He want to belong somewhere , he say , and he 'll enjoy the fun , and the good thing will help him , and we will look after him .
The Captain be so pleased , and you ought to have see Ed 's face when Bob say , ` I 'm ready , if you 'll have me . ' ''
Frank 's own face be beam , and Jack forget to `` gobble , '' he be so interested in the new convert , while Mamma say , a she throw down her napkin and take up the newspaper , -- `` We must not forget our ` Observer , ' but have a good one tonight in honor of the occasion .
There may be something here .
Come home early at noon , and I 'll help you get your paper ready . ''
`` I 'll be here , but if you want Frank , you 'd better tell him not to dawdle over Annette 's gate half an hour , '' begin Jack , who could not resist tease his dignified brother about one of the few foolish thing he be fond of do .
`` Do you want your nose pull ? ''
demand Frank , who never would stand joke on that tender point from his brother .
`` No , I do n't ; and if I do , you could n't do it ; '' with which taunt he be off and Frank after him , have make a futile dive at the impertinent little nose which be turn up at him and his sweetheart .
`` Boys , boy , not through the parlor ! ''
implored Mamma , resign to skirmish , but tremble for her piano leg a the four stout boot prance about the table and then go thunder down the hall , through the kitchen where the fat cook cheer them on , and Mary , the maid , try to head off Frank a Jack rush out into the garden .
But the pursuer duck under her arm and give chase with all speed .
Then there be a glorious race all over the place ; for both be good runner , and , be a full of spring vigor a frisky calf , they do astonish thing in the way of leap fence , dodge round corner , and make good time down the wide walk .
But Jack 's leg be not quite strong yet , and he felt that his round nose be in danger of a vengeful tweak a his breath begin to give out and Frank 's long arm draw near and nearer to the threatened feature .
Just when he be about to give up and meet his fate like a man , old Bunny , who have be much excite by the race , come scamper across the path with such a droll skip into the air and shake of the hind leg that Frank have to dodge to avoid step on him , and to laugh in spite of himself .
This momentary check give Jack a chance to bolt up the back stair and take refuge in the Bird Room , from the window of which Jill have be watch the race with great interest .
No romping be allow there , so a truce be make by lock little finger , and both sit down to get their breath .
`` I be to go on the piazza , for an hour , by and by , Doctor say .
Would you mind carry me down before you go to school , you do it so nicely , I 'm not a bit afraid , '' say Jill , a eager for the little change a if it have be a long and varied journey .
`` Yes , indeed !
Come on , Princess , '' answer Jack , glad to see her so well and happy .
The boy make an arm-chair , and away she go , for a pleasant day downstairs .
She thank Frank with a posy for his buttonhole , well know that it would soon pass into other hand , and he depart to join Annette .
Having tell Jill about Bob , and set her to work on the `` Observer , '' Jack kiss his mother , and go whistle down the street , a gay little bachelor , with a nod and smile for all he meet , and no turned-up hat or jaunty turban bob along beside him to delay his step or trouble his peace of mind .
At noon they work on their paper , which be a collection of item , cut from other paper , concern temperance , a few anecdote , a bit of poetry , a story , and , if possible , an original article by the editor .
Many hand make light work , and nothing remain but a little copying , which Jill promise to do before night .
So the boy have time for a game of football after school in the afternoon , which they much enjoy .
As they sit rest on the post , Gus say , -- `` Uncle Fred say he will give u a hay-cart ride to-night , a it be moony , and after it you be all to come to our house and have game .
`` Ca n't do it , '' answer Frank , sadly .
`` Lodge , '' groan Jack , for both consider a drive in the cart , where they all sit in a merry bunch among the hay , one of the joy of life , and much regret that a prior engagement would prevent their sharing in it .
`` That 's a pity !
I forget it be Tuesday , and ca n't put it off , a I 've ask all the rest .
Give up your old Lodge and come along , '' say Gus , who have not join yet .
`` We might for once , perhaps , but I do n't like to '' -- begin Jack , hesitate . ''
I wo n't .
Who 's to propose Bob if we do n't ?
I want to go awfully ; but I would n't disappoint Bob for a good deal , now he be willing to come . ''
And Frank spring off his post a if anxious to flee temptation , for it be very pleasant to go singing , up hill and down dale , in the spring moonlight , with -- well , the fellow of his set .
`` Nor Ed , I forget that .
No , we ca n't go .
We want to be Good Templars , and we must n't shirk , '' add Jack , follow his brother .
`` Better come .
Ca n't put it off .
Lots of fun , '' call Gus , disappoint at lose two of his favorite mate .
But the boy do not turn back , and a they go steadily away they felt that they be do their little part in the good work , and make their small sacrifice , like faithful member .
They get their reward , however , for at home they find Mr. Chauncey , a good and great man , from England , who have know their grandfather , and be an honored friend of the family .
The boy love to hear him talk , and all tea-time listen with interest to the conversation , for Mr. Chauncey be a reformer as well a a famous clergyman , and it be like inspire music to hear him tell about the world 's work , and the brave men and woman who be carry it on .
Eager to show that they have , at least , begin , the boy tell him about their Lodge , and be immensely pleased when their guest take from his pocket-book a worn paper , prove that he too be a Good Templar , and belong to the same army a they do .
Nor be that all , for when they reluctantly excuse themselves , Mr. Chauncey give each a hearty `` grip , '' and say , hold their hand in his , a he smile at the young face look up at him with so much love and honor in them , -- `` Tell the brother and sister that if I can serve them in any way while here , to command me .
I will give them a lecture at their Lodge or in public , whichever they like ; and I wish you God-speed , dear boy . ''
Two prouder lad never walk the street than Frank and Jack a they hurry away , nearly forget the poor little paper in their haste to tell the good news ; for it be seldom that such an offer be make the Lodge , and they felt the honor do them a bearer of it .
As the secret of the association can not be divulge to the uninitiated , we can only say that there be great rejoicing over the new member , for Bob be unanimously welcome , and much gratitude both felt and express for Mr. Chauncey 's interest in this small division of the grand army ; for these good folk meet with little sympathy from the great people of the town , and it be very cheer to have a well-known and much-beloved man say a word for them .
All agree that the lecture should be public , that others might share the pleasure with them , and perhaps be convert by a high eloquence than any they possess .
So the service that night be unusually full of spirit and good cheer ; for all felt the influence of a friendly word , the beauty of a fine example .
The paper be much applaud , the song be very hearty , and when Frank , whose turn it be to be chaplain , read the closing prayer , every one felt that they have much to give thanks for , since one more have join them , and the work be slowly get on with unexpected helper send to lend a hand .
The light shine out from the little hall across the street , the music reach the ear of passer-by , and the busy hum of voice up there tell how faithfully some , at least , of the villager try to make the town a safe place for their boy to grow up in , though the tavern still have it private bar and the saloon-door stood open to invite them in .
There be many such quiet lodge , and in them many young people learn a these lad be learn something of the duty they owe their neighbor as well a themselves , and be fit to become good men and sober citizen by practise and preach the law and gospel of temperance .
The next night Mr. Chauncey lecture , and the town turn out to hear the distinguished man , who not only tell them of the crime and misery produce by this terrible vice which afflict both England and America , but of the great crusade against it go on everywhere , and the need of courage , patience , hard work , and much faith , that in time it might be overcome .
Strong and cheerful word that all like to hear and many heartily believe , especially the young Templars , whose boyish fancy be win by the idea of fight a knight of old do in the famous crusade they read about in their splendid new young folk ' edition of Froissart .
`` We ca n't pitch into people a the Red Cross fellows do , but we can smash rum-jugs when we get the chance , and stand by our flag a our men do in the war , '' say Frank , with sparkling eye , a they go home in the moonlight arm in arm , keep step behind Mr. Chauncey , who lead the way with their mother on his arm , a martial figure though a minister , and a good captain to follow , a the boy felt after hear his stirring word .
`` Let 's try and get up a company of boy like those mother tell u about , and show people that we mean what we say .
I 'll be color-bearer , and you may drill u as much a you like .
A real Cold Water Army , with flag fly , and drum , and all sort of lark , '' say Jack , much excite , and take a dramatic view of the matter .
`` We 'll see about it .
Something ought to be do , and perhaps we shall be the men to do it when the time come , '' answer Frank , feel ready to shoulder a musket or be a minute-man in good earnest .
Boyish talk and enthusiasm , but it be of the right sort ; and when time and training have fit them to bear arm , these young knight would be worthy to put on the red cross and ride away to help right the wrong and slay the dragon that afflict the world .
Chapter XX .
A Sweet Memory Now the lovely June day have come , everything begin to look really summer-like ; school would soon be over , and the young people be joyfully prepare for the long vacation .
`` We be all go up to Bethlehem .
We take the seashore one year and the mountain the next .
Better come along , '' say Gus , a the boy lay on the grass after beat the Lincolns at one of the first match of the season .
`` Ca n't ; we be off to Pebbly Beach the second week in July .
Our invalid need sea air .
That one look delicate , do n't he ? ''
ask Frank , give Jack a slight rap with his bat a that young gentleman lay in his usual attitude admire the blue hose and russet shoe which adorn his sturdy limb .
`` Stop that , Captain !
You need n't talk about invalid , when you know mother say you be not to look at a book for a month because you have study yourself thin and headachy .
I 'm all right ; '' and Jack give himself a sound slap on the chest , where shone the white star of the H.B.B.C . `` Hear the little cockerel crow !
you just wait till you get into the college class , and see if you do n't have to study like fun , '' say Gus , with unruffled composure , for he be go to Harvard next year , and felt himself already a Senior .
`` Never shall ; I do n't want any of your old college .
I 'm go into business as soon a I can .
Ed say I may be his book-keeper , if I be ready when he start for himself .
That be much jolly than grind away for four year , and then have to grind ever so many more at a profession , '' say Jack , examine with interest the various knock and bruise with which much ball-playing have adorn his hand .
`` Much you know about it .
Just as well you do n't mean to try , for it would take a mighty long pull and strong pull to get you in .
Business would suit you good , and you and Ed would make a capital partnership .
Devlin , Minot , & Co. sound well , hey , Gus ? ''
`` Very , but they be such good-natured chap , they 'd never get rich .
By the way , Ed come home at noon to-day sick .
I meet him , and he look regularly knock up , '' answer Gus , in a sober tone .
`` I tell him he 'd better not go down Monday , for he be n't well Saturday , and could n't come to sing Sunday evening , you remember .
I must go right round and see what the matter be ; '' and Jack jump up , with an anxious face .
`` Let him alone till to-morrow .
He wo n't want any one fussing over him now .
We be go for a pull ; come along and steer , '' say Frank , for the sunset promise to be fine , and the boy like a brisk row in their newly paint boat , the `` Rhodora . ''
`` Go ahead and get ready , I 'll just cut round and ask at the door .
It will seem kind , and I must know how Ed be .
Wo n't be long ; '' and Jack be off at his best pace .
The others be wait impatiently when he come back with slow step and a more anxious face .
`` How be the old fellow ? ''
call Frank from the boat , while Gus stand lean on an oar in a nautical attitude .
`` Pretty sick .
Had the doctor .
May have a fever .
I do n't go in , but Ed send his love , and want to know who beat , '' answer Jack , step to his place , glad to rest and cool himself .
`` Guess he 'll be all right in a day or two ; '' and Gus push off , leave all care behind .
`` Hope he wo n't have typhoid -- that 's no joke , I tell you , '' say Frank , who know all about it , and do not care to repeat the experience .
`` He 's work too hard .
He 's so faithful he do more than his share , and get tire out .
Mother ask him to come down and see u when he have his vacation ; we be go to have high old time fish and boat .
Up or down ? ''
ask Jack , a they glide out into the river .
Gus look both way , and see another boat with a glimpse of red in it just go round the bend , answer , with decision , `` Up , of course .
Do n't we always pull to the bridge ? ''
`` Not when the girl be go down , '' laugh Jack , who have recognize Juliet 's scarlet boating-suit a he glance over his shoulder .
`` Mind what you be about , and do n't gabble , '' command Captain Frank , a the crew bent to their oar and the slender boat cut through the water leave a long furrow tremble behind .
`` Oh , ah !
I see !
There be a blue jacket as well a a red one , so it 's all right .
`` Lady Queen Anne , she sit in the sun , As white a a lily , as brown a a bun , '' sung Jack , recover his spirit , and wish Jill be there too .
`` Do you want a ducking ? ''
sternly demand Gus , anxious to preserve discipline .
`` Should n't mind , it so warm . ''
But Jack say no more , and soon the `` Rhodora '' be alongside the `` Water Witch , '' exchange greeting in the most amiable manner .
`` Pity this boat wo n't hold four .
We 'd put Jack in yours , and take you girls a nice spin up to the Hemlocks , '' say Frank , whose idea of bliss be float down the river with Annette a coxswain .
`` You 'd better come in here , this will hold four , and we be tire of rowing , '' return the `` Water Witch , '' so invitingly that Gus could not resist .
`` I do n't think it be safe to put four in there .
You 'd better change place with Annette , Gus , and then we shall be ship-shape , '' say Frank , answer a telegram from the eye that match the blue jacket .
`` Would n't it be more ship-shape still if you put me ashore at Grif 's landing ?
I can take his boat , or wait till you come back .
Do n't care what I do , '' say Jack , feel himself sadly in the way .
The good-natured offer be accept with thanks , the change be make , and , leave him behind , the two boat go gayly up the river .
He really do not care what he do , so sat in Grif 's boat awhile watch the red sky , the shin stream , and the low green meadow , where the blackbird be sing a if they too have meet their little sweetheart and be happy .
Jack remember that quiet half-hour long afterward , because what follow seem to impress it on his memory .
As he sit enjoy the scene , he very naturally think about Ed ; for the face of the sister whom he saw be very anxious , and the word `` fever '' recall the hard time when Frank be ill , particularly the night it be think the boy would not live till dawn , and Jack cry himself to sleep , wonder how he ever could get on without his brother .
Ed be almost a dear to him , and the thought that he be suffer destroyed Jack 's pleasure for a little while .
But , fortunately , young people do not know how to be anxious very long , so our boy soon cheer up , think about the late match between the Stars and the Lincolns , and after a good rest go whistle home , with a handful of mint for Mrs. Pecq , and play game with Jill as merrily a if there be no such thing a care in the world .
Next day Ed be bad , and for a week the answer be the same , when Jack crept to the back door with his eager question .
Others come also , for the dear boy lie upstairs have friend everywhere , and old neighbor think of him even more anxiously and tenderly than his mate .
It be not fever , but some swifter trouble , for when Saturday night come , Ed have go home to a long and more peaceful Sabbath than any he have ever know in this world .
Jack have be there in the afternoon , and a kind message have come down to him that his friend be not suffer so much , and he have go away , hop , in his boyish ignorance , that all danger be over .
An hour later he be read in the parlor , have no heart for play , when Frank come in with a look upon his face which would have prepare Jack for the news if he have see it .
But he do not look up , and Frank find it so hard to speak , that he linger a moment at the piano , a he often do when he come home .
It stand open , and on the rack be the `` Jolly Brothers ' Galop , '' which he have be learn to play with Ed .
Big boy a he be , the sudden thought that never again would they sit shoulder to shoulder , thunder the march or sing the song both like so well , make his eye fill a he lay away the music , and shut the instrument , feeling a if he never want to touch it again .
Then he go and sit down beside Jack with an arm round his neck , try to steady his voice by a natural question before he tell the heavy news .
`` What be you read , Jacky ? ''
The unusual caress , the very gentle tone , make Jack look up , and the minute he saw Frank 's face he know the truth .
`` Is Ed -- ? ''
he could not say the hard word , and Frank could only answer by a nod a he wink fast , for the tear would come .
Jack say no more , but a the book drop from his knee he hide his face in the sofa-pillow and lay quite still , not cry , but try to make it seem true that his dear Ed have go away for ever .
He could not do it , and presently turn his head a little to say , in a despair tone , -- `` I do n't see what I shall do without him ! ''
`` I know it 's hard for you .
It be for all of u . ''
`` You 've get Gus , but now I have n't anybody .
Ed be always so good to me ! ''
and with the name so many tender recollection come , that poor Jack break down in spite of his manful attempt to smother the sob in the red pillow .
There be an unconscious reproach in the word , Frank think ; for he be not as gentle a Ed , and he do not wonder that Jack love and mourn for the lost friend like a brother .
`` You 've get me .
I 'll be good to you ; cry if you want to , I do n't mind . ''
There be such a sympathetic choke in Frank 's voice that Jack felt comfort at once , and when he have have his cry out , which be very soon , he let Frank pull him up with a bear-like but affectionate hug , and sit lean on him a they talk about their loss , both feel that there might have be a great one , and resolve to love one another very much hereafter .
Mrs. Minot often call Frank the `` father-boy , '' because he be now the head of the house , and a sober , reliable fellow for his year .
Usually he do not show much affection except to her , for , a he once say , `` I shall never be too old to kiss my mother , '' and she often wish that he have a little sister , to bring out the soft side of his character .
He domineer over Jack and laugh at his affectionate little way , but now when trouble come , he be a kind and patient a a girl ; and when Mamma come in , have hear the news , she find her `` father-boy '' comfort his brother so well that she slip away without a word , leave them to learn one of the sweet lesson sorrow teach -- to lean on one another , and let each trial bring them close together .
It be often say that there should be no death or grief in child 's story .
It be not wise to dwell on the dark and sad side of these thing ; but they have also a bright and lovely side , and since even the young , dearest , and most guarded child can not escape some knowledge of the great mystery , be it not well to teach them in simple , cheerful way that affection sweetens sorrow , and a lovely life can make death beautiful ?
I think so , therefore try to tell the last scene in the history of a boy who really live and really leave behind him a memory so precious that it will not be soon forget by those who know and love him .
For the influence of this short life be felt by many , and even this brief record of it may do for other child what the reality do for those who still lay flower on his grave , and try to be `` as good a Eddy . ''
Few would have think that the death of a quiet lad of seventeen would have be so widely felt , so sincerely mourn ; but virtue , like sunshine , work it own sweet miracle , and when it be know that never again would the bright face be see in the village street , the cheery voice heard , the love heart felt in any of the little act which so endear Ed Devlin to those about him , it seem a if young and old grieve alike for so much promise cut off in it spring-time .
This be prove at the funeral , for , though it take place at the busy hour of a busy day , men leave their affair , woman their household , young people their study and their play , and give an hour to show their affection , respect , and sympathy for those who have lose so much .
The girl have trim the church with all the sweet flower they could find , and garland of lily of the valley rob the casket of it mournful look .
The boy have bring fresh bough to make the grave a green bed for their comrade 's last sleep .
Now they be all gather together , and it be a touching sight to see the row of young face sober and sadden by their first look at sorrow .
The girl sob , and the boy set their lip tightly a their glance fell upon the lily under which the familiar face lay full of solemn peace .
Tears dim old eye when the hymn the dead boy love be sing , and the pastor tell with how much pride and pleasure he have watch the gracious growth of this young parishioner since he first meet the lad of twelve and be attract by the shin face , the pleasant manner .
Dutiful and loving ; ready to help ; patient to bear and forbear ; eager to excel ; faithful to the small task , yet full of high ambition ; and , good still , possess the childlike piety that can trust and believe , wait and hope .
Good and happy -- the two thing we all long for and so few of u truly be .
This he be , and this single fact be the best eulogy his pastor could pronounce over the beloved youth go to a noble manhood whose promise leave so sweet a memory behind .
As the young people look , listen , and take in the scene , they felt a if some mysterious power have change their playmate from a creature like themselves into a sort of saint or hero for them to look up to , and imitate if they could .
`` What have he do , to be so loved , praise , and mourn ? ''
they think , with a tender sort of wonder ; and the answer seem to come to them a never before , for never have they be bring so near the solemn truth of life and death .
`` It be not what he do but what he be that make him so beloved .
All that be sweet and noble in him still live ; for goodness be the only thing we can take with u when we die , the only thing that can comfort those we leave behind , and help u to meet again hereafter . ''
This feeling be in many heart when they go away to lay him , with prayer and music , under the budding oak that lean over his grave , a fit emblem of the young life just begin it new spring .
As the child do their part , the beauty of the summer day soothe their sorrow , and something of the soft brightness of the June sunshine seem to gild their thought , a it gild the flower-strewn mound they leave behind .
The true and touching word speak cheer as well a impress them , and make them feel that their friend be not lose but go on into a high class of the great school whose Master be eternal love and wisdom .
So the tear soon dry , and the young face look up like flower after rain .
But the heaven-sent shower sank into the earth , and they be the strong , sweeter for it , more eager to make life brave and beautiful , because death have gently show them what it should be .
When the boy come home they find their mother already return , and Jill upon the parlor sofa listen to her account of the funeral with the same quiet , hopeful look which their own face wore ; for somehow the sadness seem to have go , and a sort of Sunday peace remain .
`` I 'm glad it be all so sweet and pleasant .
Come and rest , you look so tired ; '' and Jill hold out her hand to greet them -- a crumpled handkerchief in one and a little bunch of fade lily in the other .
Jack sit down in the low chair beside her and lean his head against the arm of the sofa , for he be tire .
But Frank walk slowly up and down the long room with a serious yet serene look on his face , for he felt a if he have learn something that day , and would always be the good for it .
Presently he say , stop before his mother , who lean in the easy-chair look up at the picture of her boy ' father , -- `` I should like to have just such thing say about me when I die . ''
`` So should I , if I deserve them a Ed do ! ''
cry Jack , earnestly .
`` You may if you try .
I should be proud to hear them , and if they be true , they would comfort me more than anything else .
I be glad you see the lovely side of sorrow , and be learn the lesson such loss teach u , '' answer their mother , who believe in teach young people to face trouble bravely , and find the silver lining in the cloud that come to all of u .
`` I never think much about it before , but now die do n't seem dreadful at all -- only solemn and beautiful .
Somehow everybody seem to love everybody else more for it , and try to be kind and good and pious .
I ca n't say what I mean , but you know , mother ; '' and Frank go pace on again with the bright look his eye always wear when he listen to music or read of some noble action .
`` That 's what Merry say when she and Molly come in on their way home .
But Molly felt dreadfully , and so do Mabel .
She bring me these flower to press , for we be all go to keep some to remember dear Ed by , '' say Jill , carefully smooth out the little bell a she lay the lily in her hymn-book , for she too have have a thoughtful hour while she lay alone , imagine all that go on in the church , and shed a few tender tear over the friend who be always so kind to her .
`` I do n't want anything to remember him by .
I be so fond of him , I could n't forget if I try .
I know I ought not to say it , but I do n't see why God let him die , '' say Jack , with a quiver in his voice , for his loving heart could not help ache still .
`` No , dear , we can not see or know many thing that grieve u very much , but we can trust that it be right , and try to believe that all be mean for our good .
That be what faith mean , and without it we be miserable .
When you be little , you be afraid of the dark , but if I speak or touch you , then you be sure all be well , and fell asleep hold my hand .
God be wise and strong than any father or mother , so hold fast to Him , and you will have no doubt or fear , however dark it seem . ''
`` As you do , '' say Jack , go to sit on the arm of Mamma 's chair , with his cheek to hers , willing to trust a she bid him , but glad to hold fast the living hand that have lead and comfort him all his life .
`` Ed use to say to me when I fret about get well , and think nobody care for me , which be very naughty , ` Do n't be trouble , God wo n't forget you ; and if you must be lame , He will make you able to bear it , ' '' say Jill , softly , her quick little mind all alive with new thought and feeling .
`` He believe it , and that 's why he like that hymn so much .
I 'm glad they sing it to-day , '' say Frank , bring his heavy dictionary to lay on the book where the flower be press .
`` Oh , thank you !
Could you play that tune for me ?
I do n't hear it , and I 'd love to , if you be willing , '' ask Jill .
`` I do n't think I ever should want to play again , but I do .
Will you sing it for her , mother ?
I 'm afraid I shall break down if I try alone . ''
`` We will all sing , music be good for u now , '' say Mamma ; and in rather broken voice they do sing Ed 's favorite word : -- `` Not a sparrow falleth but it God doth know , Just a when his mandate lay a monarch low ; Not a leaflet moveth , but it God doth see , Think not , then , O mortal , God forgetteth thee .
Far more precious surely than the bird that fly Is a Father 's image to a Father 's eye .
E'en thy hair be number ; trust Him full and free , Cast thy care before Him , He will comfort thee ; For the God that plant in thy breast a soul , On his sacred table doth thy name enroll .
Cheer thine heart , then , mortal , never faithless be , He that mark the sparrow will remember thee . ''
Chapter XXI .
Pebbly Beach `` Now , Mr. Jack , it be a moral impossibility to get all those thing into one trunk , and you must n't ask it of me , '' say Mrs. Pecq , in a tone of despair , a she survey the heap of treasure she be expect to pack for the boy .
`` Never mind the clothes , we only want a boating-suit apiece .
Mamma can put a few collar in her trunk for u ; but these necessary thing must go , '' answer Jack , add his target and air-pistol to the pile of bat , fishing-tackle , game , and a choice collection of shabby ball .
`` Those be the necessary and clothe the luxury , be they ?
Why do n't you add a velocipede , wheelbarrow , and printing-press , my dear ? ''
ask Mrs. Pecq , while Jill turn up her nose at `` boy ' rubbish . ''
`` Wish I could .
Dare say we shall want them .
Women do n't know what fellows need , and always must put in a lot of stiff shirt and clean handkerchief and clothes-brushes and pot of cold cream .
We be go to rough it , and do n't want any fuss and feather , '' say Jack , begin to pack the precious ball in his rubber boot , and strap them up with the umbrella , rod , and bat , see that there be no hope of a place in the trunk .
Here Frank come in with two big book , say calmly , `` Just slip these in somewhere , we shall need them . ''
`` But you be not to study at all , so you wo n't want those great dictionary , '' cry Jill , busily pack her new travelling-basket with all sort of little roll , bag , and box .
`` They be not dics , but my Encyclopedia .
We shall want to know heap of thing , and this tell about everything .
With those book , and a microscope and a telescope , you could travel round the world , and learn all you want to .
Ca n't possibly get on without them , '' say Frank , fondly pat his favorite work .
`` My patience !
What queer cattle boy be ! ''
exclaim Mrs. Pecq , while they all laugh .
`` It ca n't be do , Mr. Frank ; all the box be brim full , and you 'll have to leave those fat book behind , for there 's no place anywhere . ''
`` Then I 'll carry them myself ; '' and Frank tuck one under each arm , with a determined air , which settle the matter .
`` I suppose you 'll study cockleology instead of boating , and read up on polywogs while we play tennis , or go poking round with your old spy-glass instead of have a jolly good time , '' say Jack , haul away on the strap till all be taut and ship-shape with the bundle .
`` Tadpoles do n't live in salt water , my son , and if you mean conchology , you 'd better say so .
I shall play as much a I wish , and when I want to know about any new or curious thing , I shall consult my Cyclo , instead of bother other people with question , or give it up like a dunce ; '' with which crush reply Frank depart , leave Jill to pack and unpack her treasure a dozen time , and Jack to dance jig on the lid of the trunk till they would shut .
A very happy party set off the next day , leave Mrs. Pecq wave her apron on the step .
Mrs. Minot carry the lunch , Jack his precious bundle with trifle drop out by the way , and Jill felt very elegant bear her new basket with red worsted cherry bob on the outside .
Frank actually do take the Encyclopedia , do up in the roll of shawl , and whenever the others wonder about anything -- tide , lighthouse , town , or natural production -- he bring forth one of the book and triumphantly read therefrom , to the great merriment , if not edification , of his party .
A very short trip by rail and the rest of the journey by boat , to Jill 's great contentment , for she hat to be shut up ; and while the lad rove here and there she sit under the awning , too happy to talk .
But Mrs. Minot watch with real satisfaction how the fresh wind blow the color back into the pale cheek , how the eye shone and the heart fill with delight at see the lovely world again , and be able to take a share in it active pleasure .
The Willows be a long , low house close to the beach , and as full a a beehive of pleasant people , all intent on have a good time .
A great many child be swarm about , and Jill find it impossible to sleep after her journey , there be such a lively clatter of tongue on the piazza , and so many foot go to and fro in the hall .
She lay down obediently while Mrs. Minot settle matter in the two airy room and give her some dinner , but she keep pop up her head to look out of the window to see what she could see .
Just opposite stand an artist 's cottage and studio , with all manner of charm gallery , tower , step , and even a sort of drawbridge to pull up when the painter wish to be leave in peace .
He be absent now , and the visitor take possession of this fine play-place .
Children be race up and down the gallery , lady sit in the tower , boys disport themselves on the roof , and young gentleman prepare for theatrical in the large studio .
`` What fun I 'll have over there , '' think Jill , watch the merry scene with intense interest , and wonder if the little girls she saw be as nice a Molly and Merry .
Then there be glimpse of the sea beyond the green bank where a path wound along to the beach , whence come the cool dash of wave , and now and then the glimmer of a passing sail .
`` Oh , when can I go out ?
It look so lovely , I ca n't wait long , '' she say , look as eager a a little gull shut up in a cage and pining for it home on the wide ocean .
`` As soon a it be a little cooler , dear , I 'm get ready for our trip , but we must be careful and not do too much at once .
` Slow and sure ' be our motto , '' answer Mrs. Minot , busily collect the camp-stools , the shawl , the air-cushions , and the big parasol .
`` I 'll be good , only do let me have my sailor-hat to wear , and my new suit .
I 'm not a bit tired , and I do want to be like other folk right off , '' say Jill , who have be improve rapidly of late , and felt much elate at be able to drive out nearly every day , to walk a little , and sit up some hour without any pain or fatigue .
To gratify her , the blue flannel suit with it white trimming be put on , and Mamma be just button the stout boot when Jack thunder at the door , and burst in with all sort of glorious news .
`` Do come out , mother , it 's perfectly splendid on the beach !
I 've find a nice place for Jill to sit , and it 's only a step .
Lots of capital fellow here ; one have a bicycle , and be go to teach u to ride .
No end of fun up at the hotel , and every one seem glad to see u .
Two lady ask about Jill , and one of the girl have get some shell all ready for her , Gerty Somebody , and her mother be so pretty and jolly , I like her ever so much .
They sit at our table , and Wally be the boy , young than I be , but very pleasant .
Bacon be the fellow in knickerbockers ; just wish you could see what stout legs he 's get !
Cox be the chap for me , though : we be go fish to-morrow .
He 's get a sweet-looking mother , and a sister for you , Jill .
Now , then , do come on , I 'll take the trap . ''
Off they go , and Jill think that very short walk to the shore the most delightful she ever take ; for people smile at the little invalid a she go slowly by lean on Mrs. Minot 's arm , while Jack prance in front , do the honor , a if he own the whole Atlantic .
A new world open to her eye a they come out upon the pebbly beach full of people enjoy their afternoon promenade .
Jill save one rapturous `` Oh ! ''
and then sit on her stool , forget everything but the beautiful blue ocean roll away to meet the sky , with nothing to break the wide expanse but a sail here and there , a point of rock on one hand , the little pier on the other , and white gull skim by on their wide wing .
While she sit enjoy herself , Jack show his mother the place he have find , and a very nice one it be .
Just under the green bank lay an old boat prop up with some big stone .
A willow droop over it , the tide ripple up within a few yard of it , and a fine view of the wave could be see a they dash over the rock at the point .
`` Is n't it a good cubby-house ?
Ben Cox and I fix it for Jill , and she can have it for hers .
Put her cushion and thing there on the sand the child have throw in -- that will make it soft ; then these seat will do for table ; and up in the bow I 'm go to have that old rusty tin boiler full of salt-water , so she can put seaweed and crab and all sort of chap in it for an aquarium , you know , '' explain Jack , greatly interested in establish his family comfortably before he leave them .
`` There could n't be a nice place , and it be very kind of you to get it ready .
Spread the shawl and settle Jill , then you need n't think of u any more , but go and scramble with Frank .
I see him over there with his spy-glass and some pleasant-looking boy , '' say Mamma , bustle about in great spirit .
So the red cushion be place , the plaid lay , and the little work-basket set upon the seat , all ready for Jill , who be charm with her nest , and cuddle down under the big parasol , declare she would keep house there every day .
Even the old boiler please her , and Jack race over the beach to begin his search for inhabitant for the new aquarium , leave Jill to make friend with some pretty baby dig in the sand , while Mamma sit on the camp-stool and talk with a friend from Harmony Village .
It seem a if there could not be anything more delightful than to lie there lull by the sound of the sea , watch the sunset and listening to the pleasant babble of little voice close by .
But when they go to tea in the great hall , with six table full of merry people , and half a dozen maid fly about , Jill think that be even good , because it be so new to her .
Gerty and Wally nod to her , and their pretty mamma be so kind and so gay , that Jill could not feel bashful after the first few minute , and soon look about her , sure of see friendly face everywhere .
Frank and Jack ate a if the salt air have already improve their appetite , and talk about Bacon and Cox a if they have be bosom friend for year .
Mamma be as happy a they , for her friend , Mrs. Hammond , sit close by ; and this rosy lady , who have be a physician , cheer her up by predict that Jill would soon be run about as well a ever .
But the best of all be in the evening , when the elder people gather in the parlor and play Twenty Questions , while the child look on for an hour before go to bed , much amuse at the sight of grown people laugh , squabble , dodge , and joking a if they have all become young again ; for , a every one know , it be impossible to help lively skirmish when that game be play .
Jill lay in the sofa corner enjoy it all immensely ; for she never saw anything so droll , and find it capital fun to help guess the thing , or try to puzzle the opposite side .
Her quick wit and bright face attract people , and in the pause of the sport she hold quite a levee , for everybody be interested in the little invalid .
The girl shyly make friend in their own way , the mamma tell thrill tale of the accident their darling have survive , several gentleman kindly offer their boat , and the boy , with the best intention in life , suggest stroll of two or three mile to Rafe 's Chasm and Norman 's Woe , or invite her to tennis and archery , a if violent exercise be the cure for all human ill .
She be very grateful , and reluctantly go away to bed , declare , when she get upstairs , that these new friend be the dear people she ever meet , and the Willows the most delightful place in the whole world .
Next day a new life begin for the young folk -- a very healthy , happy life ; and all throw themselves into it so heartily , that it be impossible to help get great good from it , for these summer week , if well spent , work miracle in tired body and soul .
Frank take a fancy to the bicycle boy , and , be able to hire one of the breakneck article , soon learn to ride it ; and the two might be see wildly work their long leg on certain smooth stretch of road , or get up their muscle row about the bay till they be almost a brown and nautical in appearance and language a the fisherman who live in nook and corner along the shore .
Jack strike up a great friendship with the sturdy Bacon and the agreeable Cox : the latter , be about his own age , be his especial favorite ; and they soon be call Box and Cox by the other fellow , which do not annoy them a bit , a both have play part in that immortal farce .
They have capital time fish , scramble over the rock , play ball and tennis , and rainy day they take possession of the studio opposite , draw up the portcullis , and gallantly defend the castle , which some of the others besiege with old umbrella for shield , bat for battering-rams , and bunch of burr for cannon-balls .
Great lark go on over there , while the girl applaud from the piazza or chamber-windows , and make a gay flag for the victor to display from the tower when the fight be over .
But Jill have the best time of all , for each day bring increase strength and spirit , and she improve so fast it be hard to believe that she be the same girl who lay so long almost helpless in the Bird Room at home .
Such lively letter a she send her mother , all about her new friend , her fine sail , drive , and little walk ; the good time she have in the evening , the lovely thing people give her , and she be learn to make with shell and sea-weed , and what splendid fun it be to keep house in a boat .
This last amusement soon grow quite absorbing , and her `` cubby , '' a she call it , rapidly become a pretty grotto , where she live like a little mermaid , daily love more and more the beauty of the wonderful sea .
Finding the boat too sunny at time , the boy cut long willow bough and arch them over the seat , lay hemlock branch across till a green roof make it cool and shady inside .
There Jill sit or lay among her cushion reading , try to sketch , sort shell , dry gay sea-weeds , or watch her crab , jelly-fish , and anemone in the old boiler , now bury in sand and edge about with moss from the wood .
Nobody disturb her treasure , but kindly add to them , and often when she go to her nest she find fruit or flower , book or bon-bons , lay ready for her .
Every one pity and like the bright little girl who could not run and frisk with the rest , who be so patient and cheerful after her long confinement , ready to help others , and so grateful for any small favor .
She find now that the weary month have not be waste , and be very happy to discover in herself a new sort of strength and sweetness that be not only a comfort to her , but make those about her love and trust her .
The song she have learn attract the baby , who would leave their play to peep at her and listen when she sing over her work .
Passers-by pause to hear the blithe voice of the bird in the green cage , and other invalid , stroll on the beach , would take heart when they saw the child so happy in spite of her great trial .
The boy keep all their marine curiosity for her , and be always ready to take her a row or a sail , a the bay be safe and that sort of travel suit her good than driving .
But the girl have capital time together , and it do Jill good to see another sort from those she know at home .
She have be so much pet of late , that she be get rather vain of her small accomplishment , and be with stranger richer , good breed and educate than herself , make her more humble in some thing , while it show her the worth of such virtue a she could honestly claim .
Mamie Cox take her to drive in the fine carriage of her mamma , and Jill be much impress by the fact that Mamie be not a bit proud about it , and do not put on any air , though she have a maid to take care of her .
Gerty wear pretty costume , and come down with pink and blue ribbon in her hair that Jill envy very much ; yet Gerty like her curl , and long to have some , while her mother , `` the lady from Philadelphia , '' a they call her , be so kind and gay that Jill quite adore her , and always felt a if sunshine have come into the room when she enter .
Two little sister be very interesting to her , and make her long for one of her own when she saw them go about together and hear them talk of their pleasant home , where the great silk factory be .
But they invite her to come and see the wonderful cocoon , and teach her to knot pretty gray fringe on a cushion , which delight her , be so new and easy .
There be several other nice little lass , and they all gather about Jill with the sweet sympathy child be so quick to show toward those in pain or misfortune .
She think they would not care for a poor little girl like herself , yet here she be the queen of the troupe , and this discovery touch and please her very much .
In the morning they camp round the boat on the stone with book , gay work , and merry chatter , till bathing-time .
Then the beach be full of life and fun , for every one look so droll in the flannel suit , it be hard to believe that the neat lady and respectable gentleman who go into the little house could be the same person a the queer , short-skirted woman with old hat tie down , and bareheaded , barefooted men in old suit , who come skip over the sand to disport themselves in the sea in the most undignified way .
The boy race about , look like circus-tumblers , and the baby be regular little cupid , run away from the wave that try to kiss their flying foot .
Some of the young lady and girl be famous swimmer , and look very pretty in their bright red and blue costume , with loose hair and gay stocking , a they dance into the water and float away as fearlessly a real mermaidens .
Jill have her quiet dip and good rubbing each fine day , and then lay upon the warm sand watch the prank of the others , and long to run and dive and shout and tumble with the rest .
Now that she be among the well and active , it seem hard to be patient than when shut up and unable to stir .
She felt so much good , and have so little pain to remind her of past trouble , it be almost impossible to help forget the poor back and let her recovered spirit run away with her .
If Mrs. Minot have not keep good watch , she would have be off more than once , so eager be she to be `` like other girl '' again , so difficult be it to keep the restless foot quietly fold among the red cushion .
One day she do yield to temptation , and take a little voyage which might have be her last , owe to the carelessness of those whom she trust .
It be a good lesson , and make her as meek a a lamb during the rest of her stay .
Mrs. Minot drive to Gloucester one afternoon , leave Jill safely establish after her nap in the boat , with Gerty and Mamie make lace beside her .
`` Do n't try to walk or run about , my dear .
Sit on the piazza if you get tire of this , and amuse yourself quietly till I come back .
I 'll not forget the worsted and the canvas , '' say Mamma , peep over the bank for a last word a she wait for the omnibus to come along .
`` Oh , do n't forget the Gibraltars ! ''
cry Jill , pop her head out of the green roof .
`` Nor the banana , please ! ''
added Gerty , look round one end .
`` Nor the pink and blue ribbon to tie our shell-baskets , '' call Mamie , nearly tumble into the aquarium at the other end .
Mrs. Minot laugh , and promise , and rumble away , leave Jill to an experience which she never forget .
For half an hour the little girl work busily , then the boy come for Gerty and Mamie to go to the Chasm with a party of friend who be to leave next day .
Off they go , and Jill felt very lonely a the gay voice die away .
Every one have go somewhere , and only little Harry Hammond and his maid be on the beach .
Two or three sand-pipers run about among the pebble , and Jill envy them their nimble leg so much , that she could not resist get up to take a few step .
She long to run straight away over the firm , smooth sand , and feel again the delight of swift motion ; but she dare not try it , and stand lean on her tall parasol with her book in her hand , when Frank , Jack , and the bicycle boy come row lazily along and hail her .
`` Come for a sail , Jill ?
Take you anywhere you like , '' call Jack , touch by the lonely figure on the beach .
`` I 'd love to go , if you will row .
Mamma make me promise not to go sail without a man to take care of me .
Would it spoil your fun to have me ? ''
answer Jill , eagerly .
`` Not a bit ; come out on the big stone and we 'll take you aboard , '' say Frank , a they steer to the place where she could embark the easy .
`` All the rest be go to the Chasm .
I want to go , because I 've never see it ; but , of course , I have to give it up , a I do most of the fun ; '' and Jill sit down with an impatient sigh .
`` We 'll row you round there .
Ca n't land , but you can see the place and shout to the others , if that will be any comfort to you , '' propose Frank , a they pull away round the pier .
`` Oh , yes , that would be lovely ! ''
and Jill smile at Jack , who be steer , for she find it impossible to be dismal now with the fresh wind blowing in her face , the blue wave slap against the boat , and three good-natured lad ready to gratify her wish .
Away they go , laugh and talk gayly till they come to Goodwin 's Rocks , where an unusual number of people be to be see though the tide be go out , and no white spray be dash high into the air to make a sight worth see .
`` What do you suppose they be about ?
Never saw such a lot of folk at this time .
Should n't wonder if something have happen .
I say , put me ashore , and I 'll cut up and see , '' say the bicycle boy , who be of an inquire turn .
`` I 'll go with you , '' say Frank ; `` it wo n't take but a minute , and I 'd like to discover what it be .
May be something we ought to know about . ''
So the boy pull round into a quiet nook , and the two elder one scramble up the rock , to disappear in the crowd .
Five , ten , fifteen minute pass , and they do not return .
Jack grow impatient , so do Jill , and bid him run up and bring them back .
Glad to know what keep them , Jack depart , to be swallow up in his turn , for not a sign of a boy do she see after that ; and , have vainly strain her eye to discover the attraction which hold them , she give it up , lay down on their jacket , and begin to read .
Then the treacherous tide , a it ebb low and low down the beach , begin to lure the boat away ; for it be not fasten , and when lighten of it load be an easy prize to the hungry sea , always ready to steal all it can .
Jill know nothing of this , for her story be dull , the gentle motion prove soothing , and before she know it she be asleep .
Little by little the runaway boat slide far from the shore , and presently be float out to sea with it drowsy freight , while the careless boys , unconscious of the time they be waste , linger to see group after group photograph by the enterprising man who have trundle his camera to the rock .
In the midst of a dream about home , Jill be rouse by a loud shout , and , start up so suddenly that the sun-umbrella go overboard , she find herself sail off alone , while the distracted lad roar and beckon vainly from the cove .
The oar lay at their foot , where they leave them ; and the poor child be quite helpless , for she could not manage the sail , and even the parasol , with which she might have paddle a little , have go down with all sail set .
For a minute , Jill be so frightened that she could only look about her with a scared face , and wonder if drowning be a very disagreeable thing .
Then the sight of the bicycle boy struggle with Jack , who seem inclined to swim after her , and Frank shout wildly , `` Hold on !
Come back ! ''
make her laugh in spite of her fear , it be so comical , and their distress so much great than hers , since it be their own carelessness which cause the trouble .
`` I ca n't come back !
There 's nothing to hold on to !
You do n't fasten me , and now I do n't know where I 'm go ! ''
cry Jill , look from the shore to the treacherous sea that be gently carry her away .
`` Keep cool !
We 'll get a boat and come after you , '' roar Frank , before he follow Jack , who have collect his wit and be tear up the rock like a chamois hunter .
The bicycle boy calmly sit down to keep his eye on the runaway , call out from time to time such cheer remark a `` All aboard for Liverpool !
Give my love to Victoria !
Luff and bear away when you come to Halifax !
If you be hard up for provision , you 'll find an apple and some bait in my coat-pocket , '' and other direction for a comfortable voyage , till his voice be lose in the distance a a strong current bore her swiftly away and the big wave begin to tumble and splash .
At first Jill have laugh at his effort to keep up her spirit , but when the boat float round a point of rock that shut in the cove , she felt all alone , and sit quite still , wonder what would become of her .
She turn her back to the sea and look at the dear , safe land , which never have seem so green and beautiful before .
Up on the hill rustle the wood through which the happy party be wander to the Chasm .
On the rock she still saw the crowd all busy with their own affair , unconscious of her danger .
Here and there artist be sketch in picturesque spot , and in one place an old gentleman sit fish peacefully .
Jill call and wave her handkerchief , but he never look up , and an ugly little dog bark at her in what seem to her a most cruel way .
`` Nobody see or hears or care , and those horrid boy will never catch up ! ''
she cry in despair , a the boat begin to rock more and more , and the loud swash of water dashing in and out of the Chasm draw near and nearer .
Holding on now with both hand she turn and look straight before her , pale and shivering , while her eye try to see some sign of hope among the steep cliff that rise up on the left .
No one be there , though usually at this hour they be full of visitor , and it be time for the walker to have arrive .
`` I wonder if Gerty and Mamie will be sorry if I 'm drowned , '' think Jill , remember the poor girl who have be lose in the Chasm not long ago .
Her lively fancy picture the grief of her friend at her loss ; but that do not help or comfort her now , and a her anxious gaze wander along the shore , she say aloud , in a pensive tone , -- `` Perhaps I shall be wreck on Norman 's Woe , and somebody will make poetry about me .
It would be pretty to read , but I do n't want to die that way .
Oh , why do I come !
Why do n't I stay safe and comfortable in my own boat ? ''
At the thought a sob rise , and poor Jill lay her head down on her lap to cry with all her heart , feel very helpless , small , and forsake alone there on the great sea .
In the midst of her tear come the thought , `` When people be in danger , they ask God to save them ; '' and , slip down upon her knee , she say her prayer a she have never say it before , for when human help seem go we turn to Him as naturally a lose child cry to their father , and feel sure that he will hear and answer them .
After that she felt well , and wipe away the drop that blind her , to look out again like a shipwrecked mariner watch for a sail .
And there it be !
Close by , come swiftly on with a man behind it , a sturdy brown fisher , busy with his lobster-pots , and quite unconscious how like an angel he look to the helpless little girl in the rudderless boat .
`` Hi !
hi !
Oh , please do stop and get me !
I 'm lose , no oar , nobody to fix the sail !
Oh , oh !
please come ! ''
scream Jill , wave her hat frantically a the other boat skim by and the man star at her a if she really be a mermaid with a fishy tail .
`` Keep still !
I 'll come about and fetch you ! ''
he call out ; and Jill obey , sit like a little image of faith , till with a good deal of shift and flapping of the sail , the other boat come alongside and take her in tow .
A few word tell the story , and in five minute she be sit snugly tuck up watch an unpleasant mass of lobster flap about dangerously near her toe , while the boat bound over the wave with a delightful motion , and every instant bring her nearer home .
She do not say much , but felt a good deal ; and when they meet two boat come to meet her , man by very anxious crew of men and boy , she be so pale and quiet that Jack be quite bow down with remorse , and Frank nearly pitch the bicycle boy overboard because he gayly ask Jill how she leave her friend in England .
There be great rejoicing over her , for the people on the rock have heard of her loss , and run about like ant when their hill be disturb .
Of course half a dozen amiable soul post off to the Willows to tell the family that the little girl be drown , so that when the rescuer appear quite a crowd be assemble on the beach to welcome her .
But Jill felt so use up with her own share of the excitement that she be glad to be carry to the house by Frank and Jack , and lay upon her bed , where Mrs. Hammond soon restore her with sugar-coated pill , and word even sweet and more soothing .
Other people , busy with their own pleasure , forget all about it by the next day ; but Jill remember that hour long afterward , both awake and asleep , for her dream be trouble , and she often start up implore someone to save her .
Then she would recall the moment when , feel most helpless , she have ask for help , and it have come as quickly a if that tearful little cry have be hear and answer , though her voice have be drown by the dash of the wave that seem ready to devour her .
This make a deep impression on her , and a sense of childlike faith in the Father of all begin to grow up within her ; for in that lonely voyage , short a it be , she have find a very precious treasure to keep for ever , to lean on , and to love during the long voyage which all must take before we reach our home .
Chapter XXII .
A Happy Day `` Oh dear !
Only a week more , and then we must go back .
Do n't you hate the thought of it ? ''
say Jack , a he be give Jill her early walk on the beach one August morning .
`` Yes , it will be dreadful to leave Gerty and Mamie and all the nice people .
But I 'm so much good I wo n't have to be shut up again , even if I do n't go to school .
How I long to see Merry and Molly .
Dear thing , if it be n't for them I should hate go home more than you do , '' answer Jill , step along quite briskly , and find it very hard to resist break into a skip or a run , she felt so well and gay .
`` Wish they could be here to-day to see the fun , '' say Jack , for it be the anniversary of the founding of the place , and the people celebrate it by all sort of festivity .
`` I do want to ask Molly , but your mother be so good to me I could n't find courage to do it .
Mammy tell me not to ask for a thing , and I 'm sure I do n't get a chance .
I feel just a if I be your truly born sister , Jack . ''
`` That 's all right , I 'm glad you do , '' answer Jack , comfortably , though his mind seem a little absent and his eye twinkle when she speak of Molly .
`` Now , you sit in the cubby-house , and keep quiet till the boat come in .
Then the fun will begin , and you must be fresh and ready to enjoy it .
Do n't run off , now , I shall want to know where to find you by and by . ''
`` No more run off , thank you .
I 'll stay here till you come , and finish this box for Molly ; she have a birthday this week , and I 've write to ask what day , so I can send it right up and surprise her . ''
Jack 's eye twinkle more than ever a he help Jill settle herself in the boat , and then with a whoop he tear over the beach , a if practising for the race which be to come off in the afternoon .
Jill be so busy with her work that time go quickly , and the early boat come in just a the last pink shell be stick in it place .
Putting the box in the sun to dry , she lean out of her nook to watch the gay party land , and go stream up the pier along the road that go behind the bank that shelter her .
Flocks of child be run about on the sand , and presently stranger appear , eager to see and enjoy all the delight of this gala-day .
`` There 's a fat little boy who look ever so much like Boo , '' say Jill to herself , watch the people and hop they would not come and find her , since she have promise to stay till Jack return .
The fat little boy be star about him in a blissful sort of maze , hold a wooden shovel in one hand and the skirt of a young girl with the other .
Her back be turn to Jill , but something in the long brown braid with a fly-away blue bow hang down her back look very familiar to Jill .
So do the gray suit and the Japanese umbrella ; but the hat be strange , and while she be think how natural the boot look , the girl turn round .
`` Why , how much she look like Molly !
It ca n't be -- yes , it might , I do believe it be ! ''
cry Jill , start up and hardly dare to trust her own eye .
As she come out of her nest and show herself , there could be no doubt about the other girl , for she give one shout and come race over the beach with both arm out , while her hat blow off unheeded , and the gay umbrella fly away , to the great delight of all the little people except Boo , who be upset by his sister 's impetuous rush , and lay upon his back howling .
Molly do not do all the running , though , and Jill get her wish , for , never stop to think of herself , she be off at once , and meet her friend half-way with an answer cry .
It be a pretty sight to see them run into one another 's arm and hug and kiss and talk and skip in such a state of girlish joy they never care who saw or laugh at their innocent rapture .
`` You darling dear !
where do you come from ? ''
cry Jill , hold Molly by both shoulder , and shake her a little to be sure she be real .
`` Mrs. Minot send for u to spend a week .
You look so well , I ca n't believe my eye ! ''
answer Molly , pat Jill 's cheek and kiss them over and over , a if to make sure the bright color would not come off .
`` A week ?
How splendid !
Oh , I 've such heap to tell and show you ; come right over to my cubby and see how lovely it be , '' say Jill , forget everybody else in her delight at get Molly .
`` I must get poor Boo , and my hat and umbrella , I leave them all behind me when I saw you , '' laugh Molly , look back .
But Mrs. Minot and Jack have console Boo and collect the scattered property , so the girl go on arm in arm , and have a fine time before any one have the heart to disturb them .
Molly be charm with the boat , and Jill very glad the box be do in season .
Both have so much to tell and hear and plan , that they would have sit there for ever if bathing-time have not come , and the beach suddenly look like a bed of red and yellow tulip , for every one take a dip , and the stranger add much to the fun .
Molly could swim like a duck , and quite cover herself with glory by dive off the pier .
Jack undertook to teach Boo , who be a promising pupil , be so plump that he could not sink if he try .
Jill be soon through , and lay on the sand enjoy the antic of the bather till she be so faint with laughter she be glad to hear the dinner-horn and do the honor of the Willows to Molly , whose room be next hers .
Boat-races come first in the afternoon , and the girl watch them , sit luxuriously in the nest , with the lady and child close by .
The sailing-matches be very pretty to see ; but Molly and Jill be more interested in the rowing , for Frank and the bicycle boy pull one boat , and the friend felt that this one must win .
It do , though the race be not very exciting nor the prize of great worth ; but the boy and girl be satisfied , and Jack be much exalt , for he always tell Frank he could do great thing if he would only drop book and `` go in on his muscle . ''
Foot-races follow , and , burn to distinguish himself also , Jack insist on try , though his mother warn him that the weak leg might be harm , and he have his own doubt about it , a he be all out of practice .
However , he take his place with a handkerchief tie round his head , red shirt and stocking , and his sleeve roll up a if he mean business .
Jill and Molly could not sit still during this race , and stand on the bank quite tremble with excitement a the half-dozen runner stand in a line at the starting-post waiting for the word `` Go ! ''
Off they go at last over the smooth beach to the pole with the flag at the further end , and every one watch them with mingle interest and merriment , for they be a droll set , and the running not at all scientific with most of them .
One young fisherman with big boot over his trouser start off at a great pace , pound along in the most dogged way , while a little chap in a tight bathing-suit with very thin leg skim by him , look so like a sand-piper it be impossible to help laughing at both .
Jack 's former training stand him in good stead now ; for he go to work in professional style , and keep a steady trot till the flagpole have be pass , then he put on his speed and shot ahead of all the rest , several of whom break down and give up .
But Cox and Bacon hold on gallantly ; and soon it be evident that the sturdy leg in the knickerbockers be gain fast , for Jack give his ankle an ugly wrench on a round pebble , and the weak knee begin to fail .
He do his best , however , and quite a breeze of enthusiasm stir the spectator a the three boy come down the course like mettlesome horse , pant , pale , or purple , but each bound to win at any cost .
`` Now , Bacon ! ''
`` Go it , Minot ! ''
`` Hit him up , Cox ! ''
`` Jack 's ahead ! ''
`` No , he be n't ! ''
`` Here they come ! ''
`` Bacon 's do it ! ''
shout the other boy , and they be right ; Bacon have win , for the gray leg come in just half a yard ahead of the red one , and Minot tumble into his brother 's arm with hardly breath enough leave to gasp out , good-humoredly , `` All right , I 'm glad he beat ! ''
Then the victor be congratulate and bear off by his friend to refresh himself , while the lookers-on scattered to see a game of tennis and the shooting of the Archery Club up at the hotel .
Jack be soon rest , and , make light of his defeat , insist on take the girl to see the fun .
So they drive up in the old omnibus , and enjoy the pretty sight very much ; for the young lady be in uniform , and the broad green ribbon over the white dress , the gay quiver , long bow , and big target , make a lively scene .
The shooting be good ; a handsome damsel get the prize of a dozen arrow , and every one clap in the most enthusiastic manner .
Molly and Jill do not care about tennis , so they go home to rest and dress for the evening , because to their mind the dancing , the illumination , and the firework be the best fun of all .
Jill 's white bunting with cherry ribbon be very become , and the lively foot in the new slipper pat the floor impatiently a the sound of dance music come down to the Willows after tea , and the other girl waltz on the wide piazza because they could not keep still .
`` No dancing for me , but Molly must have a good time .
You 'll see that she do , wo n't you , boys ? ''
say Jill , who know that her share of the fun would be lie on a settee and watch the rest enjoy her favorite pastime .
Frank and Jack promise , and keep their word handsomely ; for there be plenty of room in the great dancing-hall at the hotel , and the band in the pavilion play such inspiring music that , a the bicycle boy say , `` Every one who have a leg could n't help shake it . ''
Molly be twirl about to her heart 's content , and fly hither and thither like a blue butterfly ; for all the lad like her , and she keep run up to tell Jill the funny thing they say and do .
As night darken from all the house in the valley , on the cliff and along the shore light shone and sparkle ; for every one decorate with gay lantern , and several yacht in the bay strung color lamp about the little vessel , make a pretty picture on the quiet sea .
Jill think she have never see anything so like fairy-land , and felt very like one in a dream a she drive slowly up and down with Mamie , Gerty , Molly , and Mrs. Cox in the carriage , so that she might see it all without too much fatigue .
It be very lovely ; and when rocket begin to whizz , fill the air with golden rain , a shower of colored star , fiery dragon , or glitter wheel , the girl could only shriek with delight , and beg to stay a little long each time the prudent lady propose go home .
It have to be at last ; but Molly and Jill comfort themselves by a long talk in bed , for it be impossible to sleep with glare of light come every few minute , flock of people talk and tramp by in the road , and burst of music float down to them a the old but not wise reveller keep up the merriment till a late hour .
They drop off at last ; but Jill have the nightmare , and Molly be wake up by a violent jerking of her braid a Jill try to tow her along , dream she be a boat .
They be too sleepy to laugh much then , but next morning they make merry over it , and go to breakfast with such happy face that all the young folk pronounce Jill 's friend a most delightful girl .
What a good time Molly do have that week !
Other people be go to leave also , and therefore much picnicking , boating , and driving be crowd into the last day .
Clambakes on the shore , charade in the studio , sewing-parties at the boat , even frolic in the big dining-room , farewell call , gift , and invitation , all sort of plan for next summer , and vow of eternal friendship exchange between people who would soon forget each other .
It be very pleasant , till poor Boo innocently add to the excitement by poison a few of his neighbor with a bad lobster .
The ambitious little soul pin to catch one of these mysterious but lovely red creature , and spent day fish on the beach , investigate hole and corner , and tag after the old man who supply the house .
One day after a high wind he find several `` lob '' wash up on the beach , and , though disappoint at their color , he pick out a big one , and set off to show his prize to Molly .
Half-way home he meet the old man on his way with a basket of fish , and be tire of lug his contribution lay it with the others , mean to explain later .
No one saw him do it , a the old man be busy with his pipe ; and Boo run back to get more dear lob , leave his treasure to go into the kettle and appear at supper , by which time he have forget all about it .
Fortunately none of the child eat any , but several old people be make ill , and quite a panic prevail that night a one after the other call up the doctor , who be board close by ; and good Mrs. Grey , the hostess , run about with hot flannel , bottle of medicine , and distract message from room to room .
All be comfortable by morning , but the friend of the sufferer lay in wait for the old fisherman , and give him a good scolding for his carelessness .
The poor man be protest his innocence when Boo , who be pass by , look into the basket , and ask what have become of his lob .
A few question bring the truth to light , and a general laugh put every one in good humor , when poor Boo mildly say , by way of explanation , -- `` I fight I be helpin ' Mrs. Dray , and I do want to see the dreen lob come out all red when she boil him .
But I fordot , and I do n't fink I 'll ever find such a nice big one any more . ''
`` For our sake , I hope you wo n't , my dear , '' say Mrs. Hammond , who have be nurse one of the sufferer .
`` It 's lucky we be go home to-morrow , or that child would be the death of himself and everybody else .
He be perfectly crazy about fish , and I 've pull him out of that old lobster-pot on the beach a dozen time , '' groan Molly , much afflict by the mishap of her young charge .
There be a great break up next day , and the old omnibus go off to the station with Bacon hang on behind , the bicycle boy and his iron whirligig atop , and head pop out of all the window for last good-bye .
Our party and the Hammonds be go by boat , and be all ready to start for the pier when Boo and little Harry be miss .
Molly , the maid , and both boy run different way to find them ; and all sort of dreadful suggestion be be make when shout of laughter be hear from the beach , and the truant appear , proudly drag in Harry 's little wagon a dead devil-fish , a the native call that ugly thing which look like a magnified tadpole -- all head and no body .
`` We 've dot him ! ''
call the innocent , tug up their prize with such solemn satisfaction it be impossible to help laughing .
`` I always want to tatch a whale , and this be a baby one , I fink .
A boy say , when they want to die they come on the sand and do it , and we saw this one go dead just now .
Ai n't he pretty ? ''
ask Boo , display the immense mouth with fond pride , while his friend flap the tail .
`` What be you go to do with him ? ''
say Mrs. Hammond , regard her infant a if she often ask herself the same question about her boy .
`` Wap him up in a paper and tate him home to pay wid , '' answer Harry , with such confidence in his big blue eye that it be very hard to disappoint his hope and tell him the treasure must be leave behind .
Wails of despair burst from both child a the hard-hearted boy tip out the little whale , and hustle the indignant fisherman on board the boat , which have be whistle for them impatiently .
Boo recover his spirit first , and gulp down a sob that nearly shake his hat off , console his companion in affliction and convulse his friend by take from his pocket several little crab , the remains of a jelly-fish , and such a collection of pebble that Frank understand why he find the fat boy such a burden when he shoulder him , kick and howl , in the late run to the boat .
These delicate toy heal the wound of Boo and Harry , and they be soon happily walk the little `` trabs '' about inside a stone wall of their own building , while the others rest after their exertion , and lay plan for come to the Willows another year , a people usually do who have once taste the wholesome delight and cordial hospitality of this charming place .
Chapter XXIII .
Cattle Show The child be not the only one who have learn something at Pebbly Beach .
Mrs. Minot have talk a good deal with some very superior person , and receive light upon various subject which have much interested or perplexed her .
While the lady work or walk together , they naturally speak oftenest and most earnestly about their child , and each contribute her experience .
Mrs. Hammond , who have be a physician for many year , be wise in the care of healthy little body , and the cure of sick one .
Mrs. Channing , who have read , travel , and observe much in the cause of education , have many useful hint about the training of young mind and heart .
Several teacher report their trial , and all the mother be eager to know how to bring up their boy and girl to be healthy , happy , useful men and woman .
As young people do not care for such discussion , we will not describe them , but a the impression they make upon one of the mamma affect our hero and heroine , we must mention the change which take place in their life when they all get home again .
`` School begin to-morrow .
Oh , dear ! ''
sigh Jack , a he look up his book in the Bird Room , a day or two after their return .
`` Do n't you want to go ?
I long to , but do n't believe I shall .
I saw our mother talk to the doctor last night , but I have n't dare to ask what they decide , '' say Jill , affectionately eye the long-unused book in her little library .
`` I 've have such a jolly good time , that I hate to be shut up all day bad than ever .
Do n't you , Frank ? ''
ask Jack , with a vengeful slap at the arithmetic which be the torment of his life .
`` Well , I confess I do n't hanker for school as much a I expect .
I 'd rather take a spin on the old bicycle .
Our road be so good , it be a great temptation to hire a machine , and astonish the native .
That 's what come of idleness .
So brace up , my boy , and go to work , for vacation be over , '' answer Frank , gravely regard the tall pile of book before him , a if try to welcome his old friend , or tyrant , rather , for they rule him with a rod of iron when he once give himself up to them .
`` Ah , but vacation be not over , my dear , '' say Mrs. Minot , hear the last word a she come in prepared to surprise her family .
`` Glad of it .
How much long be it to be ? ''
ask Jack , hop for a week at least .
`` Two or three year for some of you . ''
`` What ? ''
cry all three , in utter astonishment , a they star at Mamma , who could not help smiling , though she be very much in earnest .
`` For the next two or three year I intend to cultivate my boy ' body , and let their mind rest a good deal , from book at least .
There be plenty to learn outside of school-houses , and I do n't mean to shut you up just when you most need all the air and exercise you can get .
Good health , good principle , and a good education be the three blessing I ask for you , and I be go to make sure of the first , a a firm foundation for the other two . ''
`` But , mother , what become of college ? ''
ask Frank , rather disturb at this change of base .
`` Put it off for a year , and see if you be not well fit for it then than now . ''
`` But I be already fit : I 've work like a tiger all this year , and I 'm sure I shall pass . ''
`` Ready in one way , but not in another .
That hard work be no preparation for four year of still harder study .
It have cost you these round shoulder , many a headache , and consume hour when you have far well have be on the river or in the field .
I can not have you break down , a so many boy do , or pull through at the cost of ill-health afterward .
Eighteen be young enough to begin the steady grind , if you have a strong constitution to keep pace with the eager mind .
Sixteen be too young to send even my good boy out into the world , just when he most need his mother 's care to help him be the man she hop to see him . ''
Mrs. Minot lay her hand on his shoulder a she speak , look so fond and proud that it be impossible to rebel , though some of his most cherished plan be spoil .
`` Other fellow go at my age , and I be rather pleased to be ready at sixteen , '' he begin .
But she add , quickly , -- `` They go , but how do they come out ?
Many lose health of body , and many what be more precious still , moral strength , because too young and ignorant to withstand temptation of all sort .
The best part of education do not come from book , and the good principle I value more than either of the other thing be to be carefully watch over till firmly fix ; then you may face the world , and come to no real harm .
Trust me , dear , I do it for your sake ; so bear the disappointment bravely , and in the end I think you will say I 'm right . ''
`` I 'll do my best ; but I do n't see what be to become of u if we do n't go to school .
You will get tire of it first , '' say Frank , try to set a good example to the others , who be look much impressed and interested .
`` No danger of that , for I never send my child to school to get rid of them , and now that they be old enough to be companion , I want them at home more than ever .
There be to be some lesson , however , for busy mind must be feed , but not cram ; so you boys will go and recite at certain hour such thing a seem most important .
But there be to be no study at night , no shut up all the best hour of the day , no hurry and fret of get on fast , or skim over the surface of many study without learn any thoroughly . ''
`` So I say ! ''
cry Jack , please with the new idea , for he never do love book .
`` I do hate to be drive so I do n't half understand , because there be no time to have thing explain .
School be good fun as far a play go ; but I do n't see the sense of make a fellow learn eighty question in geography one day , and forget them the next .
`` What be to become of me , please ? ''
ask Jill , meekly .
`` You and Molly be to have lesson here .
I be a teacher when I be young , you know , and like it , so I shall be school-ma ` be , and leave my house-keeping in good hand than mine .
I always think that mother should teach their girl during these year , and vary their study to suit the grow creature a only mother can .
`` That will be splendid !
Will Molly 's father let her come ? ''
cry Jill , feel quite reconcile to stay at home , if her friend be to be with her .
`` He like the plan very much , for Molly be grow fast , and need a sort of care that Miss Dawes can not give her .
I be not a hard mistress , and I hope you will find my school a pleasant one . ''
`` I know I shall ; and I 'm not disappoint , because I be pretty sure I could n't go to the old school again , when I hear the doctor say I must be very careful for a long time .
I think he meant month ; but if it must be year , I can bear it , for I 've be happy this last one though I be sick , '' say Jill , glad to show that it have not be waste time by be cheerful and patient now .
`` That 's my good girl ! ''
and Mrs. Minot stroke the curly black head a if it be her own little daughter 's .
`` You have do so well , I want you to go on improving , for care now will save you pain and disappointment by and by .
You all have get a capital start during these six week , so it be a good time to begin my experiment .
If it do not work well , we will go back to school and college next spring . ''
`` Hurrah for Mamma and the long vacation ! ''
cry Jack , catch up two big book and whirl them round like club , a if to get his muscle in order at once .
`` Now I shall have time to go to the Gymnasium and straighten out my back , '' say Frank , who be grow so tall he need more breadth to make his height symmetrical .
`` And to ride horseback .
I be go to hire old Jane and get out the little phaeton , so we can all enjoy the fine weather while it last .
Molly and I can drive Jill , and you can take turn in the saddle when you be tire of ball and boating .
Exercise of all sort be one of the lesson we be to learn , '' say Mrs. Minot , suggest all the pleasant thing she could to sweeten the pill for her pupil , two of whom do love their book , not be old enough to know that even an excellent thing may be overdone .
`` Wo n't that be gay ?
I 'll get down the saddle to-day , so we can begin right off .
Lem ride , and we can go together .
Hope old Jane will like it as well a I shall , '' say Jack , who have find a new friend in a pleasant lad lately come to town .
`` You must see that she do , for you boy be to take care of her .
We will put the barn in order , and you can decide which shall be hostler and which gardener , for I do n't intend to hire labor on the place any more .
Our estate be not a large one , and it will be excellent work for you , my men . ''
`` All right !
I 'll see to Jane .
I love horse , '' say Jack , well pleased with the prospect .
`` My horse wo n't need much care .
I prefer a bicycle to a beast , so I 'll get in the squash , pick the apple , and cover the strawberry bed when it be time , '' add Frank , who have enjoy the free life at Pebbly Beach so much that he be willing to prolong it .
`` You may put me in a hen-coop , and keep me there a year , if you like .
I wo n't fret , for I 'm sure you know what be best for me , '' say Jill , gayly , a she look up at the good friend who have do so much for her .
`` I 'm not sure that I wo n't put you in a pretty cage and send you to Cattle Show , a a sample of what we can do in the way of tame a wild bird till it be nearly as meek a a dove , '' answer Mrs. Minot , much gratify at the amiability of her flock .
`` I do n't see why there should not be an exhibition of child , and prize for the good and pretty one , as well a for fat pig , fine horse , or handsome fruit and flower -- I do n't mean a baby show , but boy and girl , so people can see what the prospect be of a good crop for the next generation , '' say Frank , glance toward the tower of the building where the yearly Agricultural Fair be soon to be hold .
`` Years ago , there be a pretty custom here of collect all the school together in the spring , and have a festival at the Town Hall .
Each school show it best pupil , and the parent look on at the bloom flower show .
It be a pity it be ever give up , for the school have never be so good a then , nor the interest in them so great ; '' and Mrs. Minot wonder , a many people do , why farmer seem to care more for their cattle and crop than for their child , willingly spend large sum on big barn and costly experiment , while the school-houses be shabby and inconvenient , and the cheap teacher prefer .
`` Ralph be go to send my bust .
He ask if he might , and mother say Yes .
Mr. German think it very good , and I hope other people will , '' say Jill , nod toward the little plaster head that smile down from it bracket with her own merry look .
`` I could send my model ; it be nearly do .
Ralph tell me it be a clever piece of work , and he know , '' add Frank , quite take with the idea of exhibit his skill in mechanic .
`` And I could send my star bedquilt !
They always have thing of that kind at Cattle Show ; '' and Jill begin to rummage in the closet for the pride of her heart , burn to display it to an admiring world .
`` I have n't get anything .
Ca n't sew rag together ; or make baby engine , and I have no live-stock -- yes , I have too !
There 's old Bun .
I 'll send him , for the fun of it ; he really be a curiosity , for he be the big one I ever saw , and hop into the lime have make his fur such a queer color , he look like a new sort of rabbit .
I 'll catch and shut him up before he get wild again ; '' and off rush Jack to lure unsuspecting old Bun , who have grow tame during their absence , into the cage which he detest .
They all laugh at his ardor , but the fancy please them ; and a Mamma saw no reason why their little work of art should not be send , Frank fell to work on his model , and Jill resolve to finish her quilt at once , while Mrs. Minot go off to see Mr. Acton about the hour and study for the boy .
In a week or two , the young people be almost resign to the loss of school , for they find themselves delightfully fresh for the few lesson they do have , and not weary of play , since it take many useful form .
Old Jane not only carry them all to ride , but give Jack plenty of work keep her premise in nice order .
Frank mourn privately over the delay of college , but find a solace in his whirligig and the Gymnasium , where he set himself to develop a chest to match the big head above , which head no longer ache with eight or ten hour of study .
Harvesting bean and rake up leaf seem to have a soothing effect upon his nerve , for now he fell asleep at once instead of thump his pillow with vexation because his brain would go on work at difficult problem and passage when he want it to stop .
Jill and Molly drive away in the little phaeton every fair morning over the sunny hill and through the change wood , fill their hand with aster and golden-rod , their lung with the pure , invigorate air , and their head with all manner of sweet and happy fancy and feeling bear of the wholesome influence about them .
People shake their head , and say it be waste time ; but the rosy-faced girl be content to trust those wise than themselves , and find their new school very pleasant .
They read aloud a good deal , rapidly acquire one of the rarest and most beautiful accomplishment ; for they could stop and ask question a they go along , so that they understand what they read , which be half the secret .
A thousand thing come up a they sew together in the afternoon , and the eager mind receive much general information in an easy and well-ordered way .
Physiology be one of the favorite study , and Mrs. Hammond often come in to give them a little lecture , teach them to understand the wonder of their own system , and how to keep them in order -- a lesson of far more importance just then than Greek or Latin , for girl be the future mother , nurse , teacher , of the race , and should feel how much depend on them .
Merry could not resist the attraction of the friendly circle , and soon persuade her mother to let her do a they do ; so she get more exercise and less study , which be just what the delicate girl need .
The first of the new idea seem to prosper , and the second , though suggest in joke , be carry out in earnest , for the other young people be seize with a strong desire to send something to the Fair .
In fact , all sort of queer article be propose , and much fun prevail , especially among the boy , who ransack their garden for mammoth vegetable , sigh for five-legged calf , blue rose , or any other natural curiosity by mean of which they might distinguish themselves .
Ralph be the only one who have anything really worth sending ; for though Frank 's model seem quite perfect , it obstinately refuse to go , and at the last moment blow up with a report like a pop-gun .
So it be lay away for repair , and it disappointed maker devote his energy to help Jack keep Bun in order ; for that indomitable animal get out of every prison they put him in , and lead Jack a dreadful life during that last week .
At all hour of the day and night that distract boy would start up , cry , `` There he be again ! ''
and dart out to give chase and capture the villain now grow too fat to run a he once do .
The very night before the Fair , Frank be waken by a chilly draught , and , get up to see where it come from , find Jack 's door open and bed empty , while the vision of a white ghost flitting about the garden suggest a midnight rush after old Bun .
Frank watch laughingly , till poor Jack come toward the house with the gentleman in gray kick lustily in his arm , and then whisper in a sepulchral tone , -- `` Put him in the old refrigerator , he ca n't get out of that . ''
Blessing him for the suggestion , the exhausted hunter shut up his victim in the new cell , and find it a safe one , for Bun could not burrow through a sheet of zinc , or climb up the smooth wall .
Jill 's quilt be a very elaborate piece of work , be bright blue with little white star all over it ; this she finish nicely , and felt sure no patient old lady could outdo it .
Merry decide to send butter , for she have be help her mother in the dairy that summer , and rather like the light part of the labor .
She know it would please her very much if she choose that instead of wild flower , so she practise mould the yellow pat into pretty shape , that it might please both eye and taste .
Molly declare she would have a little pen , and put Boo in it , a the prize fat boy -- a threat which so alarm the innocent that he run away , and be find two or three mile from home , asleep under the wall , with two seed-cakes and a pair of sock do up in a bundle .
Being with difficulty convince that it be a joke , he consent to return to his family , but be evidently suspicious , till Molly decide to send her cat , and set about prepare them for exhibition .
The Minots ' desert Bunny-house be rather large ; but a cat can not be pack as closely a much-enduring sheep , Molly borrow this desirable family mansion , and put her darling into it , where they soon settle down , and appear to enjoy their new residence .
It have be scrub up and painted red , cushion and plate put in , and two American flag adorn the roof .
Being bar all round , a fine view of the Happy Family could be have , now twelve in number , a Molasses have lately add three white kit to the varied collection .
The girl think this would be the most interesting spectacle of all , and Grif propose to give some of the cat extra tail , to increase their charm , especially poor Mortification , who would appreciate the honor of two , after have none for so long .
But Molly decline , and Grif look about him for some attractive animal to exhibit , so that he too might go in free and come to honor , perhaps .
A young lady in the town own a donkey , a small , gray beast , who insist on trip along the sidewalk and bump her rider against the wall a she pause to browse at her own sweet will , regardless of blow or cry , till ready to move on .
Expressing great admiration for this rare animal , Grif obtain leave to display the charm of Graciosa at the Fair .
Little do she guess the dark design entertain against her dignity , and happily she be not as sensitive to ridicule a a less humble-minded animal , so she go willingly with her new friend , and enjoy the combing and trim up which she receive at his hand , while he prepare for the great occasion .
When the morning of September 28th arrive , the town be all astir , and the Fair ground a lively scene .
The air be full of the lowing of cattle , the tramp of horse , squeal of indignant pig , and clatter of tongue , a people and animal stream in at the great gate and find their proper place .
Our young folk be in a high state of excitement , a they rumble away with their treasure in a hay-cart .
The Bunny-house might have be a cage of tiger , so rampant be the cat at this new move .
Old Bun , in a small box , brood over the insult of the refrigerator , and look as fierce a a rabbit could .
Gus have a coop of rare fowl , who cluck wildly all the way , while Ralph , with the bust in his arm , stand up in front , and Jill and Molly bore the precious bedquilt , a they sit behind .
These object of interest be soon arrange , and the girl go to admire Merry 's golden butter cup among the green leaf , under which lay the ice that keep the pretty flower fresh .
The boy be down below , where the cackling be very loud , but not loud enough to drown the sonorous bray which suddenly startle them as much a it do the horse outside .
A shout of laughter follow , and away go the lad , to see what the fun be , while the girl run out on the balcony , a someone say , `` It 's that rogue of a Grif with some new joke . ''
It certainly be , and , to judge from the peal of merriment , the joke be a good one .
In at the gate come a two-headed donkey , ride by Grif , in great spirit at his success , for the gate-keeper laugh so he never think to ask for toll .
A train of boy follow him across the ground , lose in admiration of the animal and the cleverness of her rider .
Among the stage property of the Dramatic Club be the old as 's head once use in some tableau from `` Midsummer Night 's Dream . ''
This Grif have mend up , and fasten by mean of strap and a collar to poor Graciosa 's neck , hide his work with a red cloth over her back .
One eye be go , but the other still open and shut , and the long ear wag by mean of string , which he slyly manage with the bridle , so the artificial head look almost as natural a the real one .
The funny thing of all be the innocent air of Graciosa , and the mildly inquiring expression with which she now and then turn to look at or to smell of the new ornament a if she recognize a friend 's face , yet be perplex by it want of animation .
She vent her feeling in a bray , which Grif imitate , convulse all hearer by the sound as well a by the wink the one eye give , and the droll waggle of one erect ear , while the other point straight forward .
The girl laugh so at the ridiculous sight that they nearly fell over the railing , and the boy be in ecstasy , especially when Grif , embolden by his success , trot briskly round the race-course , follow by the cheer of the crowd .
Excited by the noise , Graciosa do her best , till the false head , loosen by the rapid motion , slip round under her nose , cause her to stop so suddenly that Grif fly off , alight on his own head with a violence which would have kill any other boy .
Sobered by his downfall , he decline to mount again , but lead his steed to repose in a shed , while he rejoin his friend , who be wait impatiently to congratulate him on his late and best prank .
The Committee go their round soon after , and , when the door be again open , every one hurry to see if their article have receive a premium .
A card lay on the butter cup , and Mrs. Grant be full of pride because her butter always take a prize , and this prove that Merry be walk in her mother 's step , in this direction at least .
Another card swung from the blue quilt , for the kindly judge know who make it , and be glad to please the little girl , though several others a curious but not so pretty hung near by .
The cat be admire , but , a they be not among the animal usually exhibit , there be no prize award .
Gus hop his hen would get one ; but somebody else outdo him , to the great indignation of Laura and Lotty , who have feed the white biddy faithfully for month .
Jack be sure his rabbit be the big there , and go eagerly to look for his premium .
But neither card nor Bun be to be see , for the old rascal have escape for the last time , and be never see again ; which be a great comfort to Jack , who be heartily tire of him .
Ralph 's bust be the best of all , for not only do it get a prize , and be much admire , but a lady , who find Jill and Merry rejoice over it , be so pleased with the truth and grace of the little head , that she ask about the artist , and whether he would do one of her own child , who be so delicate she fear he might not live long .
Merry gladly tell the story of her ambitious friend , and go to find him , that he might secure the order .
While she be go , Jill take up the tale , gratefully tell how kind he have be to her , how patiently he work and wait , and how much he long to go abroad .
Fortunately the lady be rich and generous , as well a fond of art , and be please with the bust , and interested in the young sculptor , give him the order when he come , and fill his soul with joy by add , that , if it suit her when do , it should be put into marble .
She live in the city , and Ralph soon arrange his work so that he could give up his noon hour , and go to model the child ; for every penny he could earn or save now be very precious , a he still hop to go abroad .
The girl be so delighted with this good fortune , that they do not stay for the race , but go home to tell the happy news , leave the boy to care for the cat , and enjoy the various match to come off that day .
`` I 'm so glad I try to look pleasant when I be lie on the board while Ralph do my head , for the pleasantness get into the clay face , and that make the lady like it , '' say Jill , a she lay rest on the sofa .
`` I always think it be a dear , bright little face , but now I love and admire it more than ever , '' cry Merry , kiss it gratefully , a she remember the help and pleasure it have give Ralph .
Chapter XXIV .
Down the River A fortnight later , the boy be pick apple one golden October afternoon , and the girl be hurry to finish their work , that they might go and help the harvester .
It be six week now since the new school begin , and they have learn to like it very much , though they find that it be not all play , by any mean .
But lesson , exercise , and various sort of housework make an agreeable change , and they felt that they be learn thing which would be useful to them all their life .
They have be make underclothes for themselves , and each have several neatly finish garment cut , fit , and sew by herself , and trim with the pretty tat Jill make in such quantity while she lay on her sofa .
Now they be complete new dress sack , and have enjoy this job very much , a each chose her own material , and suit her own taste in the making .
Jill 's be white , with tiny scarlet leave all over it , trim with red braid and button so like checkerberry she be tempt to eat them .
Molly 's be gay , with bouquet of every sort of flower , scallop all round , and adorn with six button , each of a different color , which she think the last touch of elegance .
Merry 's , though the simple , be the dainty of the three , be pale blue , trim with delicate edging , and beautifully make .
Mrs. Minot have be read from Miss Strickland 's `` Queens of England '' while the girl work , and an illustrated Shakspeare lay open on the table , as well a several fine photograph of historical place for them to look at a they go along .
The hour be over now , the teacher go , and the pupil set the last stitch a they talk over the lesson , which have interested them exceedingly .
`` I really believe I have get Henry 's six wife into my head right at last .
Two Annes , three Katherines , and one Jane .
Now I 've see where they live and hear their story , I quite feel a if I know them , '' say Merry , shake the thread off her work before she fold it up to carry home . ''
` King Henry the Eighth to six spouse be wed , One die , one survive , two divorce , two behead , ' be all I know about them before .
Poor thing , what a bad time they do have , '' add Jill , pat down the red braid , which would pucker a bit at the corner .
`` Katherine Parr have the best of it , because she outlive the old tyrant and so keep her head on , '' say Molly , wind the thread round her last button , a if bound to fasten it on so firmly that nothing should decapitate that .
`` I use to think I 'd like to be a queen or a great lady , and wear velvet and jewel , and live in a palace , but now I do n't care much for that sort of splendor .
I like to make thing pretty at home , and know that they all depend on me , and love me very much .
Queens be not happy , and I be , '' say Merry , pause to look at Anne Hathaway 's cottage a she put up the picture , and to wonder if it be very pleasant to have a famous man for one 's husband .
`` I guess your missionarying have do you good ; mine have , and I 'm get to have thing my own way more and more every day .
Miss Bat be so amiable , I hardly know her , and father tell her to ask Miss Molly when she go to him for order .
Is n't that fun ? ''
laugh Molly , in high glee , at the agreeable change .
`` I like it ever so much , but I do n't want to stay so all my day .
I mean to travel , and just as soon a I can I shall take Boo and go all round the world , and see everything , '' she add , wave her gay sack , a if it be the flag she be about to nail to the masthead of her ship .
`` Well , I should like to be famous in some way , and have people admire me very much .
I 'd like to act , or dance , or sing , or be what I hear the lady at Pebbly Beach call a ` queen of society . '
But I do n't expect to be anything , and I 'm not go to worry I shall not be a Lucinda , so I ought to be content and happy all my life , '' say Jill , who be very ambitious in spite of the newly acquire meekness , which be all the more become because her natural liveliness often break out like sunshine through a veil of light cloud .
If the three girl could have look forward ten year they would have be surprise to see how different a fate be theirs from the one each have choose , and how happy each be in the place she be call to fill .
Merry be not make the old farmhouse pretty , but live in Italy , with a young sculptor for her husband , and beauty such a she never dream of all about her .
Molly be not travel round the world , but contentedly keep house for her father and still watch over Boo , who be become her pride and joy as well a care .
Neither be Jill a famous woman , but a very happy and useful one , with the two mother lean on her a they grow old , the young men well for her influence over them , many friend to love and honor her , and a charming home , where she be queen by right of her cheery spirit , grateful heart , and unfailing devotion to those who have make her what she be .
If any curious reader , not content with this peep into futurity , ask , `` Did Molly and Jill ever marry ? ''
we must reply , for the sake of peace -- Molly remain a merry spinster all her day , one of the independent , brave , and busy creature of whom there be such need in the world to help take care of other people ' wife and child , and do the many useful job that the married folk have no time for .
Jill certainly do wear a white veil on the day she be twenty-five and call her husband Jack .
Further than that we can not go , except to say that this leap do not end in a catastrophe , like the first one they take together .
That day , however , they never dream of what be in store for them , but chatter away a they clear up the room , and then run off ready for play , feel that they have earn it by work well do .
They find the lad just finish , with Boo to help by pick up the windfall for the cider-heap , after he have amuse himself by put about a bushel down the various hole old Bun have leave behind him .
Jack be risk his neck climb in the most dangerous place , while Frank , with a long-handled apple-picker , nip off the fine fruit with care , both enjoy the pleasant task and feel proud of the handsome red and yellow pile all about the little orchard .
Merry and Molly catch up basket and fell to work with all their might , leave Jill to sit upon a stool and sort the early apple ready to use at once , look up now and then to nod and smile at her mother who watch her from the window , rejoice to see her lass so well and happy .
It be such a lovely day , they all felt it cheerful influence ; for the sun shone bright and warm , the air be full of an invigorating freshness which soon make the girl ' face look like rosy apple , and their spirit as gay a if they have be steal sip of new cider through a straw .
Jack whistle like a blackbird a he swing and bump about , Frank orate and joke , Merry and Molly run race to see who would fill and empty fast , and Jill sing to Boo , who repose in a barrel , exhaust with his labor .
`` These be the last of the pleasant day , and we ought to make the most of them .
Let 's have one more picnic before the frost spoil the leaf , '' say Merry , rest a minute at the gate to look down the street , which be a glorified sort of avenue , with brilliant maple line the way and carpet the ground with crimson and gold .
`` Oh , yes !
Go down the river once more and have supper on the Island .
I could n't go to some of your picnic , and I do long for a last good time before winter shuts me up again , '' cry Jill , eager to harvest all the sunshine she could , for she be not yet quite her old self again .
`` I 'm your man , if the other fellow agree .
We ca n't barrel these up for a while , so to-morrow will be a holiday for u .
Better make sure of the day while you can , this weather ca n't last long ; '' and Frank shake his head like one on intimate term with Old Prob .
`` Do n't worry about those high one , Jack .
Give a shake and come down and plan about the party , '' call Molly , throw up a big Baldwin with what seem a remarkably good aim , for a shower of apple follow , and a boy come tumble earthward to catch on the low bough and swing down like a caterpillar , exclaim , a he land , -- `` I 'm glad that job be do !
I 've rasp every knuckle I 've get and wear out the knee of my pant .
Nice little crop though , be n't it ? ''
`` It will be nicer if this young man do not bite every apple he touch .
Hi there !
Stop it , Boo , '' command Frank , a he catch his young assistant put his small teeth into the best one , to see if they be sweet or sour .
Molly set the barrel up on end , and that take the boy out of the reach of mischief , so he retire from view and peep through a crack a he eat his fifth pearmain , regardless of consequence .
`` Gus will be at home to-morrow .
He always come up early on Saturday , you know .
We ca n't get on without him , '' say Frank , who miss his mate very much , for Gus have enter college , and so far do not like it as much a he have expect .
`` Or Ralph ; he be very busy every spare minute on the little boy 's bust , which be get on nicely , he say ; but he will be able to come home in time for supper , I think , '' add Merry , remember the absent , a usual .
`` I 'll ask the girl on my way home , and all meet at two o'clock for a good row while it 's warm .
What shall I bring ? ''
ask Molly , wonder if Miss Bat 's amiability would extend to make goody in the midst of her usual Saturday 's baking .
`` You bring coffee and the big pot and some buttered cracker .
I 'll see to the pie and cake , and the other girl can have anything else they like , '' answer Merry , glad and proud that she could provide the party with her own inviting handiwork .
`` I 'll take my zither , so we can have music a we sail , and Grif will bring his violin , and Ralph can imitate a banjo so that you 'd be sure he have one .
I do hope it will be fine , it be so splendid to go round like other folk and enjoy myself , '' cry Jill , with a little bounce of satisfaction at the prospect of a row and ramble .
`` Come along , then , and make sure of the girl , '' say Merry , catch up her roll of work , for the harvesting be do .
Molly put her sack on a the easy way of carry it , and , extricate Boo , they go off , accompany by the boy , `` to make sure of the fellow '' also , leave Jill to sit among the apple , sing and sort like a thrifty little housewife .
Next day eleven young people meet at the appointed place , basket in hand .
Ralph could not come till later , for he be work now a he never work before .
They be a merry flock , for the mellow autumn day be even bright and clear than yesterday , and the river look it lovely , wind away under the sombre hemlock , or through the fairyland the gay wood make on either side .
Two large boat and two small one hold them all , and away they go , first up through the three bridge and round the bend , then , turn , they float down to the green island , where a grove of oak rustle their sere leaf and the squirrel be still gather acorn .
Here they often meet to keep their summer revel , and here they now spread their feast on the flat rock which need no cloth beside it own gray lichen .
The girl trim each dish with bright leaf , and make the supper look like a banquet for the elf , while the boy build a fire in the nook where ash and blacken stone tell of many a rustic meal .
The big tin coffee-pot be not so romantic , but more successful than a kettle slung on three stick , gypsy fashion ; so they do not risk a downfall , but set the water boiling , and soon fill the air with the agreeable perfume associate in their mind with picnic , a most of them never taste the fascinating stuff at any other time , be the bad child can drink .
Frank be cook , Gus help cut bread and cake , Jack and Grif bring wood , while Bob Walker take Joe 's place and make himself generally useful , a the other gentleman never do , and so be quite out of favor lately .
All be ready at last , and they be just decide to sit down without Ralph , when a shout tell them he be come , and down the river skim a wherry at such a rate the boy wonder whom he have be race with .
`` Something have happen , and he be come to tell u , '' say Jill , who sit where she could see his eager face .
`` Nothing bad , or he would n't smile so .
He be glad of a good row and a little fun after work so hard all the week ; '' and Merry shake a red napkin a a welcoming signal .
Something certainly have happen , and a very happy something it must be , they all think , a Ralph come on with flashing oar , and leap out a the boat touch the shore , run up the slope , wave his hat , and call in a glad voice , sure of sympathy in his delight , -- `` Good news !
good news !
Hurrah for Rome , next month ! ''
The young folk forget their supper for a moment , to congratulate him on his happy prospect , and hear all about it , while the leaf rustle a if echo the kind word , and the squirrel sit up aloft , wonder what all the pleasant clamor be about .
`` Yes , I 'm really go in November .
German ask me to go with him to-day , and if there be any little hitch in my get off , he 'll lend a hand , and I -- I 'll black his boot , wet his clay , and run his errands the rest of my life to pay for this ! ''
cry Ralph , in a burst of gratitude ; for , independent a he be , the kindness of this successful friend to a deserving comrade touch and win his heart .
`` I call that a handsome thing to do ! ''
say Frank , warmly , for noble action always please him .
`` I hear my mother say that make good or useful men be the best sort of sculpture , so I think David German may be proud of this piece of work , whether the big statue succeed or not . ''
`` I 'm very glad , old fellow .
When I run over for my trip four year from now , I 'll look you up , and see how you be get on , '' say Gus , with a hearty shake of the hand ; and the young lad grin cheerfully , even while they wonder where the fun be in shape clay and chip marble .
`` Shall you stay four year ? ''
ask Merry 's soft voice , while a wistful look come into her happy eye .
`` Ten , if I can , '' answer Ralph , decidedly , feel a if a long lifetime would be all too short for the immortal work he mean to do .
`` I 've get so much to learn , that I shall do whatever David think best for me at first , and when I can go alone , I shall just shut myself up and forget that there be any world outside my den . ''
`` Do write and tell u how you get on now and then ; I like to hear about other people 's good time while I 'm wait for my own , '' say Molly , too much interested to observe that Grif be stick burr up and down her braid .
`` Of course I shall write to some of you , but you must n't expect any great thing for year yet .
People do n't grow famous in a hurry , and it take a deal of hard work even to earn your bread and butter , a you 'll find if you ever try it , '' answer Ralph , sober down a little a he remember the long and steady effort it have take to get even so far .
`` Speaking of bread and butter reminds me that we 'd better eat ours before the coffee get quite cold , '' say Annette , for Merry seem to have forget that she have be choose to play matron , a she be the old .
The boy second the motion , and for a few minute supper be the all-absorbing topic , a the cup go round and the goody vanish rapidly , accompany by the usual mishap which make picnic meal such fun .
Ralph 's health be drink with all sort of good wish ; and such splendid prophecy be make , that he would have far surpass Michael Angelo , if they could have come true .
Grif give him an order on the spot for a full-length statue of himself , and stand up to show the imposing attitude in which he wish to be take , but unfortunately slip and fell forward with one hand in the custard pie , the other clutch wildly at the coffee-pot , which inhospitably burn his finger .
`` I think I grasp the idea , and will be sure to remember not to make your hair blow one way and the tail of your coat another , a a certain sculptor make those of a famous man , '' laugh Ralph , a the fallen hero scramble up , amidst general merriment .
`` Will the little bust be do before you go ? ''
ask Jill , anxiously , feel a personal interest in the success of that order .
`` Yes : I 've be hard at it every spare minute I could get , and have a fortnight more .
It suit Mrs. Lennox , and she will pay well for it , so I shall have something to start with , though I have n't be able to save much .
I 'm to thank you for that , and I shall send you the first pretty thing I get hold of , '' answer Ralph , look gratefully at the bright face , which grow still bright a Jill exclaim , -- `` I do feel so proud to know a real artist , and have my bust do by him .
I only wish I could pay for it a Mrs. Lennox do ; but I have n't any money , and you do n't need the sort of thing I can make , '' she add , shake her head , a she think over knit slipper , wall-pockets , and crochet in all it form , a offering to her depart friend .
`` You can write often , and tell me all about everybody , for I shall want to know , and people will soon forget me when I 'm go , '' say Ralph , look at Merry , who be make a garland of yellow leaf for Juliet 's black hair .
Jill promise , and keep her word ; but the long letter go from the farm-house on the hill , though no one know the fact till long afterward .
Merry say nothing now , but she smile , with a pretty color in her cheek , and be very much absorbed in her work , while the talk go on .
`` I wish I be twenty , and go to seek my fortune , a you be , '' say Jack ; and the other boy agree with him , for something in Ralph 's new plan and purpose rouse the manly spirit in all of them , remind them that playtime would soon be over , and the great world before them , where to choose .
`` It be easy enough to say what you 'd like ; but the trouble be , you have to take what you can get , and make the best of it , '' say Gus , whose own view be rather vague a yet .
`` No you do n't , always ; you can make thing go a you want them , if you only try hard enough , and walk right over whatever stand in the way .
I do n't mean to give up my plan for any man ; but , if I live , I 'll carry them out -- you see if I do n't ; '' and Frank give the rock where he lay a blow with his fist , that send the acorn fly all about .
One of them hit Jack , and he say , sorrowfully , a he hold it in his hand so carefully it be evident he have some association with it , -- `` Ed use to say that , and he have some splendid plan , but they do n't come to anything . ''
`` Perhaps they do ; who can tell ?
Do your best while you live , and I do n't believe anything good be lose , whether we have it a long or a short time , '' say Ralph , who know what a help and comfort high hope be , and how they lead to good thing , if worthily cherish .
`` A great many acorn be waste , I suppose ; but some of them sprout and grow , and make splendid tree , '' add Merry , feel more than she know how to express , a she look up at the oaks overhead .
Only seven of the party be sit on the knoll now , for the rest have go to wash the dish and pack the basket down by the boat .
Jack and Jill , with the three elder boy , be in a little group , and a Merry speak , Gus say to Frank , -- `` Did you plant yours ? ''
`` Yes , on the lawn , and I mean it shall come up if I can make it , '' answer Frank , gravely .
`` I put mine where I can see it from the window , and not forget to water and take care of it , '' add Jack , still turn the pretty brown acorn to and fro a if he love it .
`` What do they mean ? ''
whisper Merry to Jill , who be lean against her knee to rest .
`` The boy be walk in the Cemetery last Sunday , a they often do , and when they come to Ed 's grave , the place be all cover with little acorn from the tree that grow on the bank .
They each take up some a they stand talk , and Jack say he should plant his , for he love Ed very much , you know .
The others say they would , too ; and I hope the tree will grow , though we do n't need anything to remember him by , '' answer Jill , in a low tone , thinking of the pressed flower the girl keep for his sake .
The boys heard her , but no one spoke for a moment a they sit look across the river toward the hill where the pine whisper their lullaby and point heavenward , steadfast and green , all the year round .
None of them could express the thought that be in their mind a Jill tell the little story ; but the act and the feeling that prompt it be perhaps a beautiful an assurance as could have be give that the dear dead boy 's example have not be waste , for the planting of the acorn be a symbol of the desire budding in those young heart to be what he might have be , and to make their life nobler for the knowledge and the love of him .
`` It seem a if a great deal have happen this year , '' say Merry , in a pensive tone , for this quiet talk just suit her mood .
`` So I say , for there 's be a Declaration of Independence and a Revolution in our house , and I 'm commander-in-chief now ; and do n't I like it ! ''
cry Molly , complacently survey the neat new uniform she wear of her own choosing .
`` I feel a if I never learn so much in my life a I have since last December , and yet I never do so little , '' add Jill , wonder why the month of weariness and pain do not seem more dreadful to her .
`` Well , pitch on my head seem to have give me a good shaking up , somehow , and I mean to do great thing next year in good way than break my bone coast , '' say Jack , with a manly air .
`` I feel like a Siamese twin without his mate now you be go , but I 'm under order for a while , and mean to do my best .
Guess it wo n't be lose time ; '' and Frank nod at Gus , who nod back with the slightly superior expression all Freshmen wear .
`` Hope you wo n't find it so .
My work be all cut out for me , and I intend to go in and win , though it be more of a grind than you fellows know . ''
`` I 'm sure I have everything to be grateful for .
It wo n't be plain sailing -- I do n't expect it ; but , if I live , I 'll do something to be proud of , '' say Ralph , square his shoulder a if to meet and conquer all obstacle a he look into the glowing west , which be not fair than his ambitious dream .
Here we will say good-by to these girl and boy of ours a they sit together in the sunshine talk over a year that be to be for ever memorable to them , not because of any very remarkable event , but because they be just begin to look about them a they step out of childhood into youth , and some of the experience of the past month have set them to think , teach them to see the use and beauty of the small duty , joy , and sorrow which make up our life , and inspire them to resolve that the come year should be braver and bright than the last .
There be many such boy and girl , full of high hope , lovely possibility , and earnest plan , pause a moment before they push their little boat from the safe shore .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Jo's_Boys.txt.out
Chapter 1 .
TEN YEARS LATER ` If anyone have tell me what wonderful change be to take place here in ten year , I would n't have believe it , ' say Mrs Jo to Mrs Meg , a they sit on the piazza at Plumfield one summer day , look about them with face full of pride and pleasure .
` This be the sort of magic that money and kind heart can work .
I be sure Mr Laurence could have no nobler monument than the college he so generously endow ; and a home like this will keep Aunt March 's memory green as long a it last , ' answer Mrs Meg , always glad to praise the absent .
` We use to believe in fairy , you remember , and plan what we 'd ask for if we could have three wish .
Does n't it seem a if mine have be really grant at last ?
Money , fame , and plenty of the work I love , ' say Mrs Jo , carelessly rumple up her hair a she clasp her hand over her head just a she use to do when a girl . '
I have have mine , and Amy be enjoy hers to her heart 's content .
If dear Marmee , John , and Beth be here , it would be quite perfect , ' add Meg , with a tender quiver in her voice ; for Marmee 's place be empty now .
Jo put her hand on her sister 's , and both sat silent for a little while , survey the pleasant scene before them with mingle sad and happy thought .
It certainly do look a if magic have be at work , for quiet Plumfield be transform into a busy little world .
The house seem more hospitable than ever , refresh now with new paint , add wing , well-kept lawn and garden , and a prosperous air it have not wear when riotous boy swarm everywhere and it be rather difficult for the Bhaers to make both end meet .
On the hill , where kite use to be fly , stand the fine college which Mr Laurence 's munificent legacy have build .
Busy student be go to and fro along the path once trodden by childish foot , and many young men and woman be enjoy all the advantage that wealth , wisdom , and benevolence could give them .
Just inside the gate of Plumfield a pretty brown cottage , very like the Dovecote , nestle among the tree , and on the green slope westward Laurie 's white-pillared mansion glitter in the sunshine ; for when the rapid growth of the city shut in the old house , spoilt Meg 's nest , and dare to put a soap-factory under Mr Laurence 's indignant nose , our friend emigrate to Plumfield , and the great change begin .
These be the pleasant one ; and the loss of the dear old people be sweeten by the blessing they leave behind ; so all prosper now in the little community , and Mr Bhaer a president , and Mr March a chaplain of the college , saw their long-cherished dream beautifully realize .
The sister divide the care of the young people among them , each take the part that suit her best .
Meg be the motherly friend of the young woman , Jo the confidante and defender of all the youth , and Amy the lady Bountiful who delicately smooth the way for needy student , and entertain them all so cordially that it be no wonder they name her lovely home Mount Parnassus , so full be it of music , beauty , and the culture hungry young heart and fancy long for .
The original twelve boy have of course scatter far and wide during these year , but all that live still remember old Plumfield , and come wander back from the four quarter of the earth to tell their various experience , laugh over the pleasure of the past , and face the duty of the present with fresh courage ; for such home-comings keep heart tender and hand helpful with the memory of young and happy day .
A few word will tell the history of each , and then we can go on with the new chapter of their life .
Franz be with a merchant kinsman in Hamburg , a man of twenty-six now , and do well .
Emil be the jolly tar that ever ` sail the ocean blue ' .
His uncle send him on a long voyage to disgust him with this adventurous life ; but he come home so delighted with it that it be plain this be his profession , and the German kinsman give him a good chance in his ship ; so the lad be happy .
Dan be a wanderer still ; for after the geological research in South America he try sheep-farming in Australia , and be now in California look up mine .
Nat be busy with music at the Conservatory , prepare for a year or two in Germany to finish him off .
Tom be study medicine and try to like it .
Jack be in business with his father , bent on get rich .
Dolly be in college with Stuffy and Ned reading law .
Poor little Dick be dead , so be Billy ; and no one could mourn for them , since life would never be happy , afflict a they be in mind and body .
Rob and Teddy be call the ` Lion and the Lamb ' ; for the latter be as rampant a the king of beast , and the former as gentle a any sheep that ever baaed .
Mrs Jo call him ` my daughter ' , and find him the most dutiful of child , with plenty of manliness underlie the quiet manner and tender nature .
But in Ted she seem to see all the fault , whim , aspiration , and fun of her own youth in a new shape .
With his tawny lock always in wild confusion , his long leg and arm , loud voice , and continual activity , Ted be a prominent figure at Plumfield .
He have his mood of gloom , and fell into the Slough of Despond about once a week , to be hoist out by patient Rob or his mother , who understand when to let him alone and when to shake him up .
He be her pride and joy as well a torment , be a very bright lad for his age , and so full of all sort of bud talent , that her maternal mind be much exercise a to what this remarkable boy would become .
Demi have go through College with honour , and Mrs Meg have set her heart on his be a minister -- picture in her fond fancy the first sermon her dignified young parson would preach , as well a the long , useful , and honour life he be to lead .
But John , a she call him now , firmly decline the divinity school , say he have have enough of book , and need to know more of men and the world , and cause the dear woman much disappointment by decide to try a journalist 's career .
It be a blow ; but she know that young mind can not be drive , and that experience be the best teacher ; so she let him follow his own inclination , still hop to see him in the pulpit .
Aunt Jo rag when she find that there be to be a reporter in the family , and call him ` Jenkins ' on the spot .
She like his literary tendency , but have reason to detest official Paul Prys , a we shall see later .
Demi know his own mind , however , and tranquilly carry out his plan , unmoved by the tongue of the anxious mamma or the joke of his mate .
Uncle Teddy encourage him , and paint a splendid career , mention Dickens and other celebrity who begin a reporter and end as famous novelist or newspaper men .
The girl be all flourishing .
Daisy , a sweet and domestic a ever , be her mother 's comfort and companion .
Josie at fourteen be a most original young person , full of prank and peculiarity , the late of which be a passion for the stage , which cause her quiet mother and sister much anxiety as well a amusement .
Bess have grow into a tall , beautiful girl look several year old than she be , with the same graceful way and dainty taste which the little Princess have , and a rich inheritance of both the father 's and mother 's gift , foster by every aid love and money could give .
But the pride of the community be naughty Nan ; for , like so many restless , wilful child , she be grow into a woman full of the energy and promise that suddenly blossom when the ambitious seeker find the work she be fit to do well .
Nan begin to study medicine at sixteen , and at twenty be get on bravely ; for now , thanks to other intelligent woman , college and hospital be open to her .
She have never waver in her purpose from the childish day when she shock Daisy in the old willow by say : ' I do n't want any family to fuss over .
I shall have an office , with bottle and pestle thing in it , and drive round and cure folk . '
The future foretell by the little girl the young woman be rapidly bring to pass , and find so much happiness in it that nothing could win her from the chosen work .
Several worthy young gentleman have try to make her change her mind and choose , a Daisy do , ' a nice little house and family to take care of ' .
But Nan only laugh , and rout the lover by propose to look at the tongue which speak of adoration , or professionally felt the pulse in the manly hand offer for her acceptance .
So all depart but one persistent youth , who be such a devoted Traddles it be impossible to quench him .
This be Tom , who be as faithful to his child sweetheart a she to her ` pestle thing ' , and give a proof of fidelity that touch her very much .
He study medicine for her sake alone , have no taste for it , and a decided fancy for a mercantile life .
But Nan be firm , and Tom stoutly keep on , devoutly hop he might not kill many of his fellow-beings when he come to practise .
They be excellent friend , however , and cause much amusement to their comrade , by the vicissitude of this merry love-chase .
Both be approach Plumfield on the afternoon when Mrs Meg and Mrs Jo be talk on the piazza .
Not together ; for Nan be walk briskly along the pleasant road alone , think over a case that interest her , and Tom be peg on behind to overtake her , a if by accident , when the suburb of the city be past -- a little way of his , which be part of the joke .
Nan be a handsome girl , with a fresh colour , clear eye , quick smile , and the self-poised look young woman with a purpose always have .
She be simply and sensibly dress , walk easily , and seem full of vigour , with her broad shoulder well back , arm swing freely , and the elasticity of youth and health in every motion .
The few people she meet turn to look at her , a if it be a pleasant sight to see a hearty , happy girl walk countryward that lovely day ; and the red-faced young man steam along behind , hat off and every tight curl wag with impatience , evidently agree with them .
Presently a mild ` Hallo ! '
be bear upon the breeze , and pausing , with an effort to look surprised that be an utter failure , Nan say affably : ` Oh , be that you , Tom ? '
` Looks like it .
Thought you might be walk out today ' ; and Tom 's jovial face beam with pleasure .
` You know it .
How be your throat ? '
ask Nan in her professional tone , which be always a quencher to undue rapture .
` Throat ?
Oh , ah !
yes , I remember .
It be well .
The effect of that prescription be wonderful .
I 'll never call homoeopathy a humbug again . '
` You be the humbug this time , and so be the unmedicated pellet I give you .
If sugar or milk can cure diphtheria in this remarkable manner , I 'll make a note of it .
O Tom , Tom , will you never be do play trick ? ' '
O Nan , Nan , will you never be do get the good of me ? '
And the merry pair laugh at one another just a they do in the old time , which always come back freshly when they go to Plumfield .
` Well , I know I should n't see you for a week if I do n't scare up some excuse for a call at the office .
You be so desperately busy all the time I never get a word , ' explain Tom .
` You ought to be busy too , and above such nonsense .
Really , Tom , if you do n't give your mind to your lecture , you 'll never get on , ' say Nan soberly . '
I have quite enough of them a it be , ' answer Tom with an air of disgust . '
A fellow must lark a bit after dissect corpus all day .
I ca n't stand it long at a time , though some people seem to enjoy it immensely . '
` Then why not leave it , and do what suit you good ?
I always think it a foolish thing , you know , ' say Nan , with a trace of anxiety in the keen eye that search for sign of illness in a face as ruddy a a Baldwin apple .
` You know why I choose it , and why I shall stick to it if it kill me .
I may not look delicate , but I 've a deep-seated heart complaint , and it will carry me off sooner or later ; for only one doctor in the world can cure it , and she wo n't . '
There be an air of pensive resignation about Tom that be both comic and pathetic ; for he be in earnest , and keep on give hint of this sort , without the least encouragement .
Nan frown ; but she be use to it , and know how to treat him .
` She be cure it in the best and only way ; but a more refractory patient never live .
Did you go to that ball , a I direct ? ' '
I do . '
` And devote yourself to pretty Miss West ? '
` Danced with her the whole evening . '
` No impression make on that susceptible organ of yours ? '
` Not the slight .
I gap in her face once , forget to fee her , and give a sigh of relief when I hand her over to her mamma . '
` Repeat the dose as often a possible , and note the symptom .
I predict that you 'll `` cry for it '' by and by . '
` Never !
I 'm sure it do n't suit my constitution . '
` We shall see .
Obey order ! '
sternly .
` Yes , Doctor , ' meekly .
Silence reign for a moment ; then , a if the bone of contention be forget in the pleasant recollection call up by familiar object , Nan say suddenly : ` What fun we use to have in that wood !
Do you remember how you tumble out of the big nut-tree and nearly break your collar-bones ? '
` Do n't I !
and how you steep me in wormwood till I be a fine mahogany colour , and Aunt Jo wail over my spoilt jacket , ' laugh Tom , a boy again in a minute .
` And how you set the house afire ? '
` And you run off for your band-box ? '
` Do you ever say `` Thunder-turtles '' now ? '
` Do people ever call you `` Giddy-gaddy '' ? '
` Daisy do .
Dear thing , I have n't see her for a week . ' '
I saw Demi this morning , and he say she be keep house for Mother Bhaer . '
` She always do when Aunt Jo get into a vortex .
Daisy be a model housekeeper ; and you could n't do good than make your bow to her , if you ca n't go to work and wait till you be grow up before you begin lovering . '
` Nat would break his fiddle over my head if I suggest such a thing .
No , thank you .
Another name be engrave upon my heart as indelibly a the blue anchor on my arm .
`` Hope '' be my motto , and `` No surrender '' , yours ; see who will hold out long . '
` You silly boys think we must pair off a we do when child ; but we shall do nothing of the kind .
How well Parnassus look from here ! '
say Nan , abruptly change the conversation again .
` It be a fine house ; but I love old Plum best .
Would n't Aunt March stare if she could see the change here ? '
answered Tom , a they both pause at the great gate to look at the pleasant landscape before them .
A sudden whoop startle them , a a long boy with a wild yellow head come leap over a hedge like a kangaroo , follow by a slender girl , who stick in the hawthorn , and sit there laugh like a witch .
A pretty little lass she be , with curly dark hair , bright eye , and a very expressive face .
Her hat be at her back , and her skirt a good deal the bad for the brook she have cross , the tree she have climb , and the last leap , which add several fine rent .
` Take me down , Nan , please .
Tom , hold Ted ; he 's get my book , and I will have it , ' call Josie from her perch , not at all daunt by the appearance of her friend .
Tom promptly collar the thief , while Nan pick Josie from among the thorn and set her on her foot without a word of reproof ; for have be a romp in her own girlhood , she be very indulgent to like taste in others .
` What 's the matter , dear ? '
she ask , pin up the long rip , while Josie examine the scratch on her hand . '
I be study my part in the willow , and Ted come slyly up and poke the book out of my hand with his rod .
It fell in the brook , and before I could scrabble down he be off .
You wretch , give it back this moment or I 'll box your ear , ' cry Josie , laugh and scold in the same breath .
Escaping from Tom , Ted strike a sentimental attitude , and with tender glance at the wet , torn young person before him , deliver Claude Melnotte 's famous speech in a lackadaisical way that be irresistibly funny , end with ` Dost like the picture , love ? '
a he make an object of himself by tie his long leg in a knot and distort his face horribly .
The sound of applause from the piazza put a stop to these antic , and the young folk go up the avenue together very much in the old style when Tom drive four in hand and Nan be the best horse in the team .
Rosy , breathless , and merry , they greet the lady and sit down on the step to rest , Aunt Meg sew up her daughter 's rag while Mrs Jo smooth the Lion 's mane , and rescue the book .
Daisy appear in a moment to greet her friend , and all begin to talk .
` Muffins for tea ; good stay and eat 'em ; Daisy 's never fail , ' say Ted hospitably .
` He 's a judge ; he eat nine last time .
That 's why he 's so fat , ' add Josie , with a wither glance at her cousin , who be as thin a a lath . '
I must go and see Lucy Dove .
She have a whitlow , and it 's time to lance it .
I 'll tea at college , ' answer Nan , feeling in her pocket to be sure she have not forget her case of instrument .
` Thanks , I 'm go there also .
Tom Merryweather have granulate lid , and I promise to touch them up for him .
Save a doctor 's fee and be good practice for me .
I 'm clumsy with my thumb , ' say Tom , bound to be near his idol while he could .
` Hush !
Daisy do n't like to hear you saw-bones talk of your work .
Muffins suit u good ' ; and Ted grin sweetly , with a view to future favour in the eating line .
` Any news of the Commodore ? '
ask Tom .
` He be on his way home , and Dan hop to come soon .
I long to see my boy together , and have beg the wanderer to come to Thanksgiving , if not before , ' answer Mrs Jo , beam at the thought .
` They 'll come , every man of them , if they can .
Even Jack will risk lose a dollar for the sake of one of our jolly old dinner , ' laugh Tom .
` There 's the turkey fatten for the feast .
I never chase him now , but fee him well ; and he 's `` swellin ' wisibly '' , bless his drumstick ! '
say Ted , point out the doomed fowl proudly parade in a neighbouring field .
` If Nat go the last of the month we shall want a farewell frolic for him .
I suppose the dear old Chirper will come home a second Ole Bull , ' say Nan to her friend .
A pretty colour come into Daisy 's cheek , and the fold of muslin on her breast rise and fell with a quick breath ; but she answer placidly : ` Uncle Laurie say he have real talent , and after the training he will get abroad he can command a good living here , though he may never be famous . '
` Young people seldom turn out a one predicts , so it be of little use to expect anything , ' say Mrs Meg with a sigh .
` If our child be good and useful men and woman , we should be satisfy ; yet it 's very natural to wish them to be brilliant and successful . '
` They be like my chicken , mighty uncertain .
Now , that fine-looking cockerel of mine be the stupid one of the lot , and the ugly , long-legged chap be the king of the yard , he 's so smart ; crow loud enough to wake the Seven Sleepers ; but the handsome one croak , and be no end of a coward .
I get snub ; but you wait till I grow up , and then see ' ; and Ted look so like his own long-legged pet that everyone laugh at his modest prediction . '
I want to see Dan settle somewhere .
`` A roll stone gather no moss '' , and at twenty-five he be still roam about the world without a tie to hold him , except this ' ; and Mrs Meg nod towards her sister .
` Dan will find his place at last , and experience be his best teacher .
He be rough still , but each time he come home I see a change for the good , and never lose my faith in him .
He may never do anything great , or get rich ; but if the wild boy make an honest man , I 'm satisfied , ' say Mrs Jo , who always defend the black sheep of her flock .
` That 's right , mother , stand by Dan !
He 's worth a dozen Jacks and Neds brag about money and try to be swell .
You see if he do n't do something to be proud of and take the wind out of their sail , ' add Ted , whose love for his ` Danny ' be now strengthen by a boy 's admiration for the bold , adventurous man .
` Hope so , I 'm sure .
He 's just the fellow to do rash thing and come to glory -- climb the Matterhorn , take a `` header '' into Niagara , or find a big nugget .
That 's his way of sow wild oat , and perhaps it 's good than ours , ' say Tom thoughtfully ; for he have gain a good deal of experience in that sort of agriculture since he become a medical student .
` Much good ! '
say Mrs Jo emphatically .
` I 'd rather send my boy off to see the world in that way than leave them alone in a city full of temptation , with nothing to do but waste time , money , and health , a so many be leave .
Dan have to work his way , and that teach him courage , patience , and self-reliance .
I do n't worry about him as much a I do about George and Dolly at college , no more fit than two baby to take care of themselves . '
` How about John ?
He 's knock round town a a newspaper man , report all sort of thing , from sermon to prize-fights , ' ask Tom , who think that sort of life would be much more to his own taste than medical lecture and hospital ward .
` Demi have three safeguard -- good principle , refine taste , and a wise mother .
He wo n't come to harm , and these experience will be useful to him when he begin to write , a I 'm sure he will in time , ' begin Mrs Jo in her prophetic tone ; for she be anxious to have some of her geese turn out swan .
` Speak of Jenkins , and you 'll hear the rustling of his paper , ' cried Tom , a a fresh-faced , brown-eyed young man come up the avenue , wave a newspaper over his head .
` Here 's your Evening Tattler !
Latest Edition !
Awful murder !
Bank clerk abscond !
Powder-mill explosion , and great strike of the Latin School boys ! '
roar Ted , go to meet his cousin with the graceful gait of a young giraffe .
` The Commodore be in , and will cut his cable and run before the wind as soon a he can get off , ' call Demi , with ' a nice derangement of nautical epitaph ' , a he come up smile over his good news .
Everyone talk together for a moment , and the paper pass from hand to hand that each eye might rest on the pleasant fact that the Brenda , from Hamburg , be safe in port .
` He 'll come lurch out by tomorrow with his usual collection of marine monster and lively yarn .
I saw him , jolly and tarry and brown a a coffee-berry .
Had a good run , and hop to be second mate , a the other chap be lay up with a broken leg , ' add Demi .
` Wish I have the setting of it , ' say Nan to herself , with a professional twist of her hand .
` How 's Franz ? '
ask Mrs Jo .
` He 's go to be marry !
There 's news for you .
The first of the flock , Aunty , so say good-bye to him .
Her name be Ludmilla Heldegard Blumenthal ; good family , well-off , pretty , and of course an angel .
The dear old boy want Uncle 's consent , and then he will settle down to be a happy and an honest burgher .
Long life to him ! '
` I 'm glad to hear it .
I do so like to settle my boy with a good wife and a nice little home .
Now , if all be right , I shall feel a if Franz be off my mind , ' say Mrs Jo , fold her hand contentedly ; for she often felt like a distracted hen with a large brood of mixed chicken and duck upon her hand .
` So do I , ' sigh Tom , with a sly glance at Nan .
` That 's what a fellow need to keep him steady ; and it 's the duty of nice girl to marry as soon a possible , be n't it , Demi ? '
` If there be enough nice fellow to go round .
The female population exceed the male , you know , especially in New England ; which account for the high state of culture we be in , perhaps , ' answer John , who be lean over his mother 's chair , tell his day 's experience in a whisper .
` It be a merciful provision , my dear ; for it take three or four woman to get each man into , through , and out of the world .
You be costly creature , boy ; and it be well that mother , sister , wife , and daughter love their duty and do it so well , or you would perish off the face of the earth , ' say Mrs Jo solemnly , a she take up a basket fill with dilapidated hose ; for the good Professor be still hard on his sock , and his son resemble him in that respect .
` Such be the case , there be plenty for the `` superfluous woman '' to do , in take care of these helpless men and their family .
I see that more clearly every day , and be very glad and grateful that my profession will make me a useful , happy , and independent spinster . '
Nan 's emphasis on the last word cause Tom to groan , and the rest to laugh . '
I take great pride and solid satisfaction in you , Nan , and hope to see you very successful ; for we do need just such helpful woman in the world .
I sometimes feel a if I 've miss my vocation and ought to have remain single ; but my duty seem to point this way , and I do n't regret it , ' say Mrs Jo , fold a large and very ragged blue sock to her bosom .
` Neither do I .
What should I ever have do without my dear Mum ? '
add Ted , with a filial hug which cause both to disappear behind the newspaper in which he have be mercifully absorb for a few minute .
` My darling boy , if you would wash your hand semi-occasionally , fond caress would be less disastrous to my collar .
Never mind , my precious touslehead , good grass stain and dirt than no cuddling at all ' ; and Mrs Jo emerge from that brief eclipse look much refresh , though her back hair be catch in Ted 's button and her collar under one ear .
Here Josie , who have be study her part at the other end of the piazza , suddenly burst forth with a smothered shriek , and give Juliet 's speech in the tomb so effectively that the boy applaud , Daisy shiver , and Nan murmur : ` Too much cerebral excitement for one of her age . '
` I 'm afraid you 'll have to make up your mind to it , Meg .
That child be a born actress .
We never do anything so well , not even the Witch 's Curse , ' say Mrs Jo , cast a bouquet of many-coloured sock at the foot of her flushed and pant niece , when she fell gracefully upon the door-mat .
` It be a sort of judgement upon me for my passion for the stage when a girl .
Now I know how dear Marmee felt when I beg to be an actress .
I never can consent , and yet I may be oblige to give up my wish , hope , and plan again . '
There be an accent of reproach in his mother 's voice , which make Demi pick up his sister with a gentle shake , and the stern command to ` drop that nonsense in public ' .
` Drop me , Minion , or I 'll give you the Maniac Bride , with my best Ha-ha ! '
cry Josie , glare at him like an offended kitten .
Being set on her foot , she make a splendid courtesy , and dramatically proclaim , ` Mrs Woffington 's carriage wait , ' sweep down the step and round the corner , trail Daisy 's scarlet shawl majestically behind her .
` Is n't she great fun ?
I could n't stop in this dull place if I have n't that child to make it lively for me .
If ever she turn prim , I 'm off ; so mind how you nip her in the bud , ' say Teddy , frown at Demi , who be now write out shorthand note on the step .
` You two be a team , and it take a strong hand to drive you , but I rather like it .
Josie ought to have be my child , and Rob yours , Meg .
Then your house would have be all peace and mine all Bedlam .
Now I must go and tell Laurie the news .
Come with me , Meg , a little stroll will do u good ' ; and stick Ted 's straw hat on her head , Mrs Jo walk off with her sister , leave Daisy to attend to the muffin , Ted to appease Josie , and Tom and Nan to give their respective patient a very bad quarter of an hour .
Chapter 2 .
PARNASSUS It be well name ; and the Muses seem to be at home that day , for a the newcomer go up the slope appropriate sight and sound greet them .
Passing an open window , they look in upon a library preside over by Clio , Calliope , and Urania ; Melpomene and Thalia be disport themselves in the hall , where some young people be dance and rehearse a play ; Erato be walk in the garden with her lover , and in the music-room Phoebus himself be drill a tuneful choir .
A mature Apollo be our old friend Laurie , but comely and genial a ever ; for time have ripen the freakish boy into a noble man .
Care and sorrow , as well a ease and happiness , have do much for him ; and the responsibility of carry out his grandfather 's wish have be a duty most faithfully perform .
Prosperity suit some people , and they blossom best in a glow of sunshine ; others need the shade , and be the sweeter for a touch of frost .
Laurie be one of the former sort , and Amy be another ; so life have be a kind of poem to them since they marry -- not only harmonious and happy , but earnest , useful , and rich in the beautiful benevolence which can do so much when wealth and wisdom go hand in hand with charity .
Their house be full of unostentatious beauty and comfort , and here the art-loving host and hostess attract and entertain artist of all kind .
Laurie have music enough now , and be a generous patron to the class he most like to help .
Amy have her protege among ambitious young painter and sculptor , and find her own art double dear a her daughter grow old enough to share it labour and delight with her ; for she be one of those who prove that woman can be faithful wife and mother without sacrifice the special gift bestow upon them for their own development and the good of others .
Her sister know where to find her , and Jo go at once to the studio , where mother and daughter work together .
Bess be busy with the bust of a little child , while her mother add the last touch to a fine head of her husband .
Time seem to have stand still with Amy , for happiness have keep her young and prosperity give her the culture she need .
A stately , graceful woman , who show how elegant simplicity could be make by the taste with which she choose her dress and the grace with which she wear it .
As someone say : ' I never know what Mrs Laurence have on , but I always receive the impression that she be the best-dressed lady in the room . '
It be evident that she adore her daughter , and well she might ; for the beauty she have long for seemed , to her fond eye at least , to be impersonate in this young self .
Bess inherit her mother 's Diana-like figure , blue eye , fair skin , and golden hair , tie up in the same classic knot of curl .
Also -- ah !
never-ending source of joy to Amy -- she have her father 's handsome nose and mouth , cast in a feminine mould .
The severe simplicity of a long linen pinafore suit her ; and she work away with the entire absorption of the true artist , unconscious of the loving eye upon her , till Aunt Jo come in exclaim eagerly : ` My dear girl , stop your mud-pies and hear the news ! '
Both artist drop their tool and greet the irrepressible woman cordially , though genius have be burn splendidly and her come spoil a precious hour .
They be in the full tide of gossip when Laurie , who have be summon by Meg , arrive , and sit down between the sister , with no barricade anywhere , listen with interest to the news of Franz and Emil .
` The epidemic have break out , and now it will rage and ravage your flock .
Be prepare for every sort of romance and rashness for the next ten year , Jo .
Your boy be grow up and will plunge headlong into a sea of bad scrape than any you have have yet , ' say Laurie , enjoy her look of mingled delight and despair . '
I know it , and I hope I shall be able to pull them through and land them safely ; but it 's an awful responsibility , for they will come to me and insist that I can make their poor little love run smoothly .
I like it , though , and Meg be such a mush of sentiment she revel in the prospect , ' answer Jo , feel pretty easy about her own boy , whose youth make them safe for the present .
` I 'm afraid she wo n't revel when our Nat begin to buzz too near her Daisy .
Of course you see what all that mean ?
As musical director I be also his confidante , and would like to know what advice to give , ' say Laurie soberly .
` Hush !
you forget that child , ' begin Jo , nod towards Bess , who be at work again .
` Bless you !
she 's in Athens , and do n't hear a word .
She ought to leave off , though , and go out .
My darling , put the baby to sleep , and go for a run .
Aunt Meg be in the parlour ; go and show her the new picture till we come , ' add Laurie , look at his tall girl a Pygmalion might have look at Galatea ; for he consider her the fine statue in the house .
` Yes , papa ; but please tell me if it be good ' ; and Bess obediently put down her tool , with a linger glance at the bust .
` My cherished daughter , truth compels me to confess that one cheek be plump than the other ; and the curl upon it infant brow be rather too much like horn for perfect grace ; otherwise it rival Raphael 's Chanting Cherubs , and I 'm proud of it . '
Laurie be laugh a he speak ; for these first attempt be so like Amy 's early one , it be impossible to regard them as soberly a the enthusiastic mamma do .
` You ca n't see beauty in anything but music , ' answered Bess , shake the golden head that make the one bright spot in the cool north light of the great studio .
` Well , I see beauty in you , dear .
And if you be not art , what be ?
I wish to put a little more nature into you , and get you away from this cold clay and marble into the sunshine , to dance and laugh a the others do .
I want a flesh-and-blood girl , not a sweet statue in a grey pinafore , who forget everything but her work . '
As he speak , two dusty hand come round his neck , and Bess say earnestly , punctuate her word with soft touch of her lip : ' I never forget you , papa ; but I do want to do something beautiful that you may be proud of me by and by .
Mamma often tell me to stop ; but when we get in here we forget there be any world outside , we be so busy and so happy .
Now I 'll go and run and sing , and be a girl to please you . '
And throw away the apron , Bess vanish from the room , seem to take all the light with her .
` I 'm glad you say that .
The dear child be too much absorbed in her artistic dream for one so young .
It be my fault ; but I sympathize so deeply in it all , I forget to be wise , ' sigh Amy , carefully cover the baby with a wet towel . '
I think this power of living in our child be one of the sweet thing in the world ; but I try to remember what Marmee once say to Meg -- that father should have their share in the education of both girl and boy ; so I leave Ted to his father all I can , and Fritz lend me Rob , whose quiet way be a restful and good for me a Ted 's tempest be for his father .
Now I advise you , Amy , to let Bess drop the mud-pies for a time , and take up music with Laurie ; then she wo n't be one-sided , and he wo n't be jealous . '
` Hear , hear !
A Daniel -- a very Daniel ! '
cry Laurie , well pleased . '
I think you 'd lend a hand , Jo , and say a word for me .
I be a little jealous of Amy , and want more of a share in my girl .
Come , my lady , let me have her this summer , and next year , when we go to Rome , I 'll give her up to you and high art .
Is n't that a fair bargain ? ' '
I agree ; but in try your hobby , nature , with music thrown in , do n't forget that , though only fifteen , our Bess be old than most girl of that age , and can not be treat like a child .
She be so very precious to me , I feel a if I want to keep her always a pure and beautiful a the marble she love so well . '
Amy speak regretfully a she look about the lovely room where she have spend so many happy hour with this dear child of hers . '
`` Turn and turn about be fair play '' , a we use to say when we all want to ride on Ellen Tree or wear the russet boot , ' say Jo briskly ; ` so you must share your girl between you , and see who will do the most for her . '
` We will , ' answer the fond parent , laugh at the recollection Jo 's proverb bring up to them .
` How I do use to enjoy bounce on the limb of that old apple-tree !
No real horse ever give me half the pleasure or the exercise , ' say Amy , look out of the high window a if she saw the dear old orchard again and the little girl at play there .
` And what fun I have with those bless boot ! '
laugh Jo .
` I 've get the relic now .
The boy reduce them to rag ; but I love them still , and would enjoy a good theatrical stalk in them if it be possible . '
` My fond memory twine about the warming-pan and the sausage .
What lark we have !
And how long ago it seem ! '
say Laurie , star at the two woman before him a if he find it hard to realize that they ever have be little Amy and riotous Jo .
` Do n't suggest that we be grow old , my Lord .
We have only bloom ; and a very nice bouquet we make with our bud about u , ' answer Mrs Amy , shake out the fold of her rosy muslin with much the air of dainty satisfaction the girl use to show in a new dress .
` Not to mention our thorn and dead leaf , ' add Jo , with a sigh ; for life have never be very easy to her , and even now she have her trouble both within and without .
` Come and have a dish of tea , old dear , and see what the young folk be about .
You be tire , and want to be `` stay with flagon and comfort with apple '' , ' say Laurie , offer an arm to each sister , and lead them away to afternoon tea , which flow a freely on Parnassus a the nectar of old .
They find Meg in the summer-parlour , an airy and delightful room , full now of afternoon sunshine and the rustle of tree ; for the three long window open on the garden .
The great music-room be at one end , and at the other , in a deep alcove hung with purple curtain , a little household shrine have be make .
Three portrait hang there , two marble bust stand in the corner , and a couch , an oval table , with it urn of flower , be the only article of furniture the nook contain .
The bust be John Brooke and Beth -- Amy 's work -- both excellent likeness , and both full of the placid beauty which always recall the saying , that ` Clay represent life ; plaster , death ; marble , immortality ' .
On the right , a become the founder of the house , hang the portrait of Mr Laurence , with it expression of mingled pride and benevolence , a fresh and attractive a when he catch the girl Jo admire it .
Opposite be Aunt March -- a legacy to Amy -- in an imposing turban , immense sleeve , and long mitten decorously cross on the front of her plum-coloured satin gown .
Time have mellow the severity of her aspect ; and the fixed regard of the handsome old gentleman opposite seem to account for the amiable simper on lip that have not utter a sharp word for year .
In the place of honour , with the sunshine warm upon it , and a green garland always round it , be Marmee 's beloved face , paint with grateful skill by a great artist whom she have befriend when poor and unknown .
So beautifully lifelike be it that it seem to smile down upon her daughter , say cheerfully : ` Be happy ; I be with you still . '
The three sister stand a moment look up at the beloved picture with eye full of tender reverence and the longing that never leave them ; for this noble mother have be so much to them that no one could ever fill her place .
Only two year since she have go away to live and love anew , leave such a sweet memory behind her that it be both an inspiration and a comforter to all the household .
They felt this a they draw close to one another , and Laurie put it into word a he say earnestly : ' I can ask nothing better for my child than that she may be a woman like our mother .
Please God , she shall be , if I can do it ; for I owe the best I have to this dear saint . '
Just then a fresh voice begin to sing ` Ave Maria ' in the music-room , and Bess unconsciously echo her father 's prayer for her a she dutifully obey his wish .
The soft sound of the air Marmee use to sing lead the listener back into the world again from that momentary reaching after the loved and lose , and they sit down together near the open window enjoy the music , while Laurie bring them tea , make the little service pleasant by the tender care he give to it .
Nat come in with Demi , soon follow by Ted and Josie , the Professor and his faithful Rob , all anxious to hear more about ` the boy ' .
The rattle of cup and tongue grow brisk , and the setting sun saw a cheerful company rest in the bright room after the varied labour of the day .
Professor Bhaer be grey now , but robust and genial a ever ; for he have the work he love , and do it so heartily that the whole college felt his beautiful influence .
Rob be as much like him a it be possible for a boy to be , and be already call the ` young Professor ' , he so adore study and closely imitate his honoured father in all way .
` Well , heart 's dear , we go to have our boy again , all two , and may rejoice greatly , ' say Mr Bhaer , seat himself beside Jo with a beam face and a handshake of congratulation .
` Oh , Fritz , I 'm so delighted about Emil , and if you approve about Franz also .
Did you know Ludmilla ?
Is it a wise match ? '
ask Mrs Jo , hand him her cup of tea and draw closer , a if she welcome her refuge in joy as well a sorrow .
` It all go well .
I saw the Madchen when I go over to place Franz .
A child then , but most sweet and charming .
Blumenthal be satisfied , I think , and the boy will be happy .
He be too German to be content away from Vaterland , so we shall have him a a link between the new and the old , and that please me much . '
` And Emil , he be to be second mate next voyage ; be n't that fine ?
I 'm so happy that both your boy have do well ; you give up so much for them and their mother .
You make light of it , dear , but I never forget it , ' say Jo , with her hand in his as sentimentally a if she be a girl again and her Fritz have come a-wooing .
He laugh his cheery laugh , and whisper behind her fan : ` If I have not come to America for the poor lad , I never should have find my Jo .
The hard time be very sweet now , and I bless Gott for all I seem to lose , because I gain the blessing of my life . '
` Spooning !
spooning !
Here 's an awful flirtation on the sly , ' cry Teddy , peer over the fan just at that interesting moment , much to his mother 's confusion and his father 's amusement ; for the Professor never be ashamed of the fact that he still consider his wife the dear woman in the world .
Rob promptly eject his brother from one window , to see him skip in at the other , while Mrs Jo shut her fan and hold it ready to rap her unruly boy 's knuckle if he come near her again .
Nat approach in answer to Mr Bhaer 's beckoning teaspoon , and stand before them with a face full of the respectful affection he felt for the excellent man who have do so much for him . '
I have the letter ready for thee , my son .
They be two old friend of mine in Leipzig , who will befriend thee in that new life .
It be well to have them , for thou wilt be heartbroken with Heimweh at the first , Nat , and need comfort , ' say the Professor , give him several letter .
` Thanks , sir .
Yes , I expect to be pretty lonely till I get start , then my music and the hope of get on will cheer me up , ' answer Nat , who both long and dread to leave all these friend behind him and make new one .
He be a man now ; but the blue eye be as honest a ever , the mouth still a little weak , in spite of the carefully cherish moustache over it , and the broad forehead more plainly than ever betray the music-loving nature of the youth .
Modest , affectionate , and dutiful , Nat be consider a pleasant though not a brilliant success by Mrs Jo .
She love and trust him , and be sure he would do his best , but do not expect that he would be great in any way , unless the stimulus of foreign training and self-dependence make him a good artist and a strong man than now seem likely .
` I 've mark all your thing -- or rather , Daisy do -- and as soon a your book be collect , we can see about the packing , ' say Mrs Jo , who be so used to fit boy off for all quarter of the globe that a trip to the North Pole would not have be too much for her .
Nat grow red at mention of that name -- or be it the last glow of sunset on his rather pale cheek ?
-- and his heart beat happily at the thought of the dear girl work Ns and Bs on his humble sock and handkerchief ; for Nat adore Daisy , and the cherished dream of his life be to earn a place for himself a a musician and win this angel for his wife .
This hope do more for him than the Professor 's counsel , Mrs Jo 's care , or Mr Laurie 's generous help .
For her sake he work , wait , and hop , find courage and patience in the dream of that happy future when Daisy should make a little home for him and he fiddle a fortune into her lap .
Mrs Jo know this ; and though he be not exactly the man she would have choose for her niece , she felt that Nat would always need just the wise and love care Daisy could give him , and that without it there be danger of his be one of the amiable and aimless men who fail for want of the right pilot to steer them safely through the world .
Mrs Meg decidedly frown upon the poor boy 's love , and would not hear of give her dear girl to any but the best man to be find on the face of the earth .
She be very kind , but as firm a such gentle soul can be ; and Nat flee for comfort to Mrs Jo , who always espouse the interest of her boy heartily .
A new set of anxiety be begin now that the aforesaid boy be grow up , and she foresee no end of worry as well a amusement in the love-affairs already bud in her flock .
Mrs Meg be usually her best ally and adviser , for she love romance a well now a when a blooming girl herself .
But in this case she harden her heart , and would not hear a word of entreaty .
` Nat be not man enough , never would be , no one know his family , a musician 's life be a hard one ; Daisy be too young , five or six year hence when time have prove both perhaps .
Let u see what absence will do for him . '
And that be the end of it , for when the maternal Pelican be rouse she could be very firm , though for her precious child she would have pluck her last feather and give the last drop of her blood .
Mrs Jo be think of this a she look at Nat while he talk with her husband about Leipzig , and she resolve to have a clear understanding with him before he go ; for she be use to confidence , and talk freely with her boy about the trial and temptation that beset all life in the beginning , and so often mar them , for want of the right word at the right moment .
This be the first duty of parent , and no false delicacy should keep them from the watchful care , the gentle warning , which make self-knowledge and self-control the compass and pilot of the young a they leave the safe harbour of home .
` Plato and his disciple approach , ' announce irreverent Teddy , a Mr March come in with several young men and woman about him ; for the wise old man be universally beloved , and minister so beautifully to his flock that many of them thank him all their life for the help give to both heart and soul .
Bess go to him at once ; for since Marmee die , Grandpapa be her special care , and it be sweet to see the golden head bend over the silver one a she roll out his easy-chair and wait on him with tender alacrity .
` Aesthetic tea always on tap here , sir ; will you have a flowing bowl or a bit of ambrosia ? '
ask Laurie , who be wander about with a sugar-basin in one hand and a plate of cake in the other ; for sweeten cup and feed the hungry be work he love .
` Neither , thanks ; this child have take care of me ' ; and Mr March turn to Bess , who sit on one arm of his chair , hold a glass of fresh milk .
` Long may she live to do it , sir , and I be here to see this pretty contradiction of the song that `` youth and age can not live together '' ! '
answer Laurie , smile at the pair . '
`` Crabbed age '' , papa ; that make all the difference in the world , ' say Bess quickly ; for she love poetry , and read the best .
` Wouldst thou see fresh rose grow In a reverend bed of snow ? '
quote Mr March , a Josie come and perch on the other arm , look like a very thorny little rise ; for she have be have a hot discussion with Ted , and have get the bad of it .
` Grandpa , must woman always obey men and say they be the wise , just because they be the strong ? '
she cry , look fiercely at her cousin , who come stalk up with a provoke smile on the boyish face that be always very comical atop of that tall figure .
` Well , my dear , that be the old-fashioned belief , and it will take some time to change it .
But I think the woman 's hour have strike ; and it look to me a if the boy must do their best , for the girl be abreast now , and may reach the goal first , ' answer Mr March , survey with paternal satisfaction the bright face of the young woman , who be among the best student in the college .
` The poor little Atalantas be sadly distract and delay by the obstacle throw in their way -- not golden apple , by any mean -- but I think they will stand a fair chance when they have learn to run well , ' laugh Uncle Laurie , stroke Josie 's breezy hair , which stand up like the fur of an angry kitten .
` Whole barrel of apple wo n't stop me when I start , and a dozen Teds wo n't trip me up , though they may try .
I 'll show him that a woman can act as well , if not well , than a man .
It have be do , and will be again ; and I 'll never own that my brain be n't as good a his , though it may be small , ' cry the excited young person .
` If you shake your head in that violent way you 'll addle what brain you have get ; and I 'd take care of 'em , if I be you , ' begin tease Ted .
` What start this civil war ? '
ask Grandpapa , with a gentle emphasis on the adjective , which cause the combatant to calm their ardour a little .
` Why , we be peg away at the Iliad and come to where Zeus tell Juno not to inquire into his plan or he 'll whip her , and Jo be disgust because Juno meekly hush up .
I say it be all right , and agree with the old fellow that woman do n't know much and ought to obey men , ' explain Ted , to the great amusement of his hearer .
` Goddesses may do a they like , but those Greek and Trojan woman be poor-spirited thing if they mind men who could n't fight their own battle and have to be hustle off by Pallas , and Venus , and Juno , when they be go to get beat .
The idea of two army stop and sit down while a pair of hero flung stone at one another !
I do n't think much of your old Homer .
Give me Napoleon or Grant for my hero . '
Josie 's scorn be as funny a if a humming-bird scold at an ostrich , and everyone laugh a she sniff at the immortal poet and criticize the god .
` Napoleon 's Juno have a nice time ; do n't she ?
That 's just the way girls argue -- first one way and then the other , ' jeer Ted .
` Like Johnson 's young lady , who be `` not categorical , but all wiggle-waggle '' , ' add Uncle Laurie , enjoy the battle immensely . '
I be only speak of them a soldier .
But if you come to the woman side of it , be n't Grant a kind husband and Mrs Grant a happy woman ?
He do n't threaten to whip her if she ask a natural question ; and if Napoleon do do wrong about Josephine , he could fight , and do n't want any Minerva to come fussing over him .
They be a stupid set , from dandify Paris to Achilles sulk in his ship , and I wo n't change my opinion for all the Hectors and Agamemnons in Greece , ' say Josie , still unconquered .
` You can fight like a Trojan , that 's evident ; and we will be the two obedient army look on while you and Ted have it out , ' begin Uncle Laurie , assume the attitude of a warrior leaning on his spear . '
I fear we must give it up , for Pallas be about to descend and carry off our Hector , ' say Mr March , smile , a Jo come to remind her son that suppertime be near .
` We will fight it out later when there be no goddess to interfere , ' say Teddy , a he turn away with unusual alacrity , remember the treat in store .
` Conquered by a muffin , by Jove ! '
call Josie after him , exult in an opportunity to use the classical exclamation forbidden to her sex .
But Ted shoot a Parthian arrow a he retire in good order by reply , with a highly virtuous expression : ` Obedience be a soldier 's first duty . '
Bent on her woman 's privilege of have the last word , Josie run after him , but never utter the scathing speech upon her lip , for a very brown young man in a blue suit come leap up the step with a cheery ` Ahoy !
ahoy !
where be everybody ? '
'Em il !
Emil ! '
cry Josie , and in a moment Ted be upon him , and the late enemy end their fray in a joyful welcome to the newcomer .
Muffins be forget , and tow their cousin like two fussy little tug with a fine merchantman , the child return to the parlour , where Emil kiss all the woman and shake hand with all the men except his uncle ; him he embrace in the good old German style , to the great delight of the observer .
` Did n't think I could get off today , but find I could , and steer straight for old Plum .
Not a soul there , so I luff and bore away for Parnassus , and here be every man Jack of you .
Bless your heart , how glad I be to see you all ! '
exclaim the sailor boy , beam at them , a he stand with his legs apart a if he still felt the rock deck under his foot .
` You ought to `` shiver your timber '' , not `` bless our heart '' , Emil ; it 's not nautical at all .
Oh , how nice and shippy and tarry you do smell ! '
say Josie , sniff at him with great enjoyment of the fresh sea odour he bring with him .
This be her favourite cousin , and she be his pet ; so she know that the bulge pocket of the blue jacket contain treasure for her at least .
` Avast , my hearty , and let me take sounding before you dive , ' laugh Emil , understand her affectionate caress , and hold her off with one hand while with the other he rummage out sundry foreign little box and parcel mark with different name , and hand them round with appropriate remark , which cause much laughter ; for Emil be a wag .
` There 's a hawser that will hold our little cock-boat still about five minute , ' he say , throw a necklace of pretty pink coral over Josie 's head ; ` and here 's something the mermaid send to Undine , ' he add , hand Bess a string of pearly shell on a silver chain .
I think Daisy would like a fiddle , and Nat can find her a beau , ' continue the sailor , with a laugh , a he undo a dainty filigree brooch in the shape of a violin . '
I know she will , and I 'll take it to her , ' answer Nat , a he vanish , glad of an errand , and sure that he could find Daisy though Emil have miss her .
Emil chuckle , and hand out a quaintly carve bear whose head open , show a capacious ink-stand .
This he present , with a scrape , to Aunt Jo .
` Knowing your fondness for these fine animal , I bring this one to your pen . '
` Very good , Commodore !
Try again , ' say Mrs Jo , much pleased with her gift , which cause the Professor to prophesy ` work of Shakespeare ' from it depth , so great would be the inspiration of the beloved bruin .
` As Aunt Meg will wear cap , in spite of her youth , I get Ludmilla to get me some bit of lace .
Hope you 'll like 'em ' ; and out of a soft paper come some filmy thing , one of which soon lay like a net of snowflake on Mrs Meg 's pretty hair . '
I could n't find anything swell enough for Aunt Amy , because she have everything she want , so I bring a little picture that always make me think of her when Bess be a baby ' ; and he hand her an oval ivory locket , on which be paint a goldenhaired Madonna , with a rosy child fold in her blue mantle .
` How lovely ! '
cry everyone ; and Aunt Amy at once hung it about her neck on the blue ribbon from Bess 's hair , charm with her gift ; for it recall the happy year of her life .
` Now , I flatter myself I 've get just the thing for Nan , neat but not gaudy , a sort of sign you see , and very appropriate for a doctor , ' say Emil , proudly display a pair of lava earring shape like little skull .
` Horrid ! '
And Bess , who hat ugly thing , turn her eye to her own pretty shell .
` She wo n't wear earring , ' say Josie .
` Well , she 'll enjoy punch your ear then .
She 's never so happy a when she 's overhaul her fellow creature and go for 'em with a knife , ' answer Emil , undisturbed .
` I 've get a lot of plunder for you fellows in my chest , but I know I should have no peace till my cargo for the girl be unloaded .
Now tell me all the news . '
And , seat on Amy 's best marbletopped table , the sailor swing his leg and talk at the rate of ten knot an hour , till Aunt Jo carry them all off to a grand family tea in honour of the Commodore .
Chapter 3 .
JO 'S LAST SCRAPE The March family have enjoy a great many surprise in the course of their varied career , but the great of all be when the Ugly Duckling turn out to be , not a swan , but a golden goose , whose literary egg find such an unexpected market that in ten year Jo 's wild and most cherished dream actually come true .
How or why it happen she never clearly understood , but all of a sudden she find herself famous in a small way , and , good still , with a snug little fortune in her pocket to clear away the obstacle of the present and assure the future of her boy .
It begin during a bad year when everything go wrong at Plumfield ; time be hard , the school dwindle , Jo overwork herself and have a long illness ; Laurie and Amy be abroad , and the Bhaers too proud to ask help even of those a near and dear a this generous pair .
Confined to her room , Jo get desperate over the state of affair , till she fell back upon the long-disused pen a the only thing she could do to help fill up the gap in the income .
A book for girl be want by a certain publisher , she hastily scribble a little story describe a few scene and adventure in the life of herself and sister , though boy be more in her line , and with very slight hope of success send it out to seek it fortune .
Things always go by contrary with Jo .
Her first book , labour over for year , and launch full of the high hope and ambitious dream of youth , founder on it voyage , though the wreck continue to float long afterward , to the profit of the publisher at least .
The hastily write story , send away with no thought beyond the few dollar it might bring , sail with a fair wind and a wise pilot at the helm into public favour , and come home heavily laden with an unexpected cargo of gold and glory .
A more astonished woman probably never exist than Josephine Bhaer when her little ship come into port with flag fly , cannon that have be silent before now boom gaily , and , good than all , many kind face rejoice with her , many friendly hand grasp hers with cordial congratulation .
After that it be plain sailing , and she merely have to load her ship and send them off on prosperous trip , to bring home store of comfort for all she love and labour for .
The fame she never do quite accept ; for it take very little fire to make a great deal of smoke nowadays , and notoriety be not real glory .
The fortune she could not doubt , and gratefully receive ; though it be not half so large a one a a generous world report it to be .
The tide have turn continue to rise , and float the family comfortably into a snug harbour where the old member could rest secure from storm , and whence the young one could launch their boat for the voyage of life .
All manner of happiness , peace , and plenty come in those year to bless the patient waiter , hopeful worker , and devout believer in the wisdom and justice of Him who send disappointment , poverty , and sorrow to try the love of human heart and make success the sweeter when it come .
The world saw the prosperity , and kind soul rejoice over the improved fortune of the family ; but the success Jo value most , the happiness that nothing could change or take away , few know much about .
It be the power of make her mother 's last year happy and serene ; to see the burden of care lay down for ever , the weary hand at rest , the dear face untroubled by any anxiety , and the tender heart free to pour itself out in the wise charity which be it delight .
As a girl , Jo 's favourite plan have be a room where Marmee could sit in peace and enjoy herself after her hard , heroic life .
Now the dream have become a happy fact , and Marmee sit in her pleasant chamber with every comfort and luxury about her , love daughter to wait on her a infirmity increase , a faithful mate to lean upon , and grand-children to brighten the twilight of life with their dutiful affection .
A very precious time to all , for she rejoice a only mother can in the good fortune of their child .
She have live to reap the harvest she sow ; have see prayer answer , hop blossom , good gift bear fruit , peace and prosperity bless the home she have make ; and then , like some brave , patient angel , whose work be do , turn her face heavenward , glad to rest .
This be the sweet and sacred side of the change ; but it have it droll and thorny one , a all thing have in this curious world of ours .
After the first surprise , incredulity , and joy , which come to Jo , with the ingratitude of human nature , she soon tire of renown , and begin to resent her loss of liberty .
For suddenly the admire public take possession of her and all her affair , past , present , and to come .
Strangers demand to look at her , question , advise , warn , congratulate , and drive her out of her wit by well-meant but very wearisome attention .
If she decline to open her heart to them , they reproach her ; if she refuse to endow her pet charity , relieve private want , or sympathize with every ill and trial know to humanity , she be call hard-hearted , selfish , and haughty ; if she find it impossible to answer the pile of letter send her , she be neglectful of her duty to the admire public ; and if she prefer the privacy of home to the pedestal upon which she be request to pose , ` the air of literary people ' be freely criticize .
She do her best for the child , they be the public for whom she write , and labour stoutly to supply the demand always in the mouth of voracious youth -- ` More story ; more right away ! '
Her family object to this devotion at their expense , and her health suffer ; but for a time she gratefully offer herself up on the altar of juvenile literature , feel that she owe a good deal to the little friend in whose sight she have find favour after twenty year of effort .
But a time come when her patience give out ; and wearying of be a lion , she become a bear in nature a in name , and return to her den , growl awfully when order out .
Her family enjoy the fun , and have small sympathy with her trial , but Jo come to consider it the bad scrape of her life ; for liberty have always be her dear possession , and it seem to be fast go from her .
Living in a lantern soon lose it charm , and she be too old , too tired , and too busy to like it .
She felt that she have do all that could reasonably be require of her when autograph , photograph , and autobiographical sketch have be sow broadcast over the land ; when artist have take her home in all it aspect , and reporter have take her in the grim one she always assume on these try occasion ; when a series of enthusiastic boarding-schools have ravage her ground for trophy , and a steady stream of amiable pilgrim have wear her doorstep with their respectful foot ; when servant leave after a week 's trial of the bell that ring all day ; when her husband be force to guard her at meal , and the boy to cover her retreat out of back window on certain occasion when enterprising guest walk in unannounced at unfortunate moment .
A sketch of one day may perhaps explain the state of thing , offer some excuse for the unhappy woman , and give a hint to the autograph-fiend now rampant in the land ; for it be a true tale .
` There ought to be a law to protect unfortunate author , ' say Mrs Jo one morning soon after Emil 's arrival , when the mail bring her an unusually large and varied assortment of letter .
` To me it be a more vital subject than international copyright ; for time be money , peace be health , and I lose both with no return but less respect for my fellow creature and a wild desire to fly into the wilderness , since I can not shut my door even in free America . '
` Lion-hunters be awful when in search of their prey .
If they could change place for a while it would do them good ; and they 'd see what bore they be when they `` do themselves the honour of call to express their admiration of our charm work '' , ' quote Ted , with a bow to his parent , now frown over twelve request for autograph . '
I have make up my mind on one point , ' say Mrs Jo with great firmness . '
I will not answer this kind of letter .
I 've send at least six to this boy , and he probably sell them .
This girl write from a seminary , and if I send her one all the other girl will at once write for more .
All begin by say they know they intrude , and that I be of course annoy by these request ; but they venture to ask because I like boy , or they like the book , or it be only one .
Emerson and Whittier put these thing in the wastepaper-basket ; and though only a literary nursery-maid who provide moral pap for the young , I will follow their illustrious example ; for I shall have no time to eat or sleep if I try to satisfy these dear unreasonable child ' ; and Mrs Jo sweep away the entire batch with a sigh of relief .
` I 'll open the others and let you eat your breakfast in peace , liebe Mutter , ' say Rob , who often act a her secretary .
` Here 's one from the South ' ; and break an imposing seal , he read : ` MADAM , As it have please Heaven to bless your effort with a large fortune , I feel no hesitation in ask you to supply fund to purchase a new communion-service for our church .
To whatever denomination you belong , you will of course respond with liberality to such a request , ` Respectfully yours , ` MRS X.Y . ZAVIER ' ` Send a civil refusal , dear .
All I have to give must go to fee and clothe the poor at my gate .
That be my thank-offering for success .
Go on , ' answer his mother , with a grateful glance about her happy home . '
A literary youth of eighteen proposes that you put your name to a novel he have write ; and after the first edition your name be to be take off and his put on .
There 's a cool proposal for you .
I guess you wo n't agree to that , in spite of your soft-heartedness towards most of the young scribbler . '
` Could n't be do .
Tell him so kindly , and do n't let him send the manuscript .
I have seven on hand now , and barely time to read my own , ' say Mrs Jo , pensively fish a small letter out of the slop-bowl and open it with care , because the down-hill address suggest that a child write it . '
I will answer this myself .
A little sick girl want a book , and she shall have it , but I ca n't write sequel to all the rest to please her .
I should never come to an end if I try to suit these voracious little Oliver Twists , clamour for more .
What next , Robin ? '
` This be short and sweet .
` DEAR MRS BHAER , I be now go to give you my opinion of your work .
I have read them all many time , and call them first-rate .
Please go ahead .
` Your admirer , ` BILLY BABCOCK ' ` Now that be what I like .
Billy be a man of sense and a critic worth have , since he have read my work many time before express his opinion .
He ask for no answer , so send my thanks and regard . '
` Here 's a lady in England with seven girl , and she wish to know your view upon education .
Also what career they shall follow the old be twelve .
Do n't wonder she 's worried , ' laugh Rob .
` I 'll try to answer it .
But a I have no girl , my opinion be n't worth much and will probably shock her , a I shall tell her to let them run and play and build up good , stout body before she talk about career .
They will soon show what they want , if they be let alone , and not all run in the same mould . '
` Here 's a fellow who want to know what sort of a girl he shall marry , and if you know of any like those in your story . '
` Give him Nan 's address , and see what he 'll get , ' propose Ted , privately resolve to do it himself if possible .
` This be from a lady who want you to adopt her child and lend her money to study art abroad for a few year .
Better take it , and try your hand at a girl , mother . '
` No , thank you , I will keep to my own line of business .
What be that blot one ?
It look rather awful , to judge by the ink , ' ask Mrs Jo , who beguile her daily task by try to guess from the outside what be inside her many letter .
This prove to be a poem from an insane admirer , to judge by it incoherent style .
` TO J.M.B . ` Oh , be I a heliotrope , I would play poet , And blow a breeze of fragrance To you ; and none should know it .
` Your form like the stately elm When Phoebus gild the morning ray ; Your cheek like the ocean bed That bloom a rise in May .
` Your word be wise and bright , I bequeath them to you a legacy give ; And when your spirit take it flight , May it bloom aflower in heaven .
` My tongue in flatter language speak , And sweeter silence never break in busy street or lonely glen .
I take you with the flash of my pen .
` Consider the lily , how they grow ; They toil not , yet be fair , Gems and flower and Solomon 's seal .
The geranium of the world be J. M. Bhaer .
` JAMES ' While the boy shout over this effusion -- which be a true one -- their mother read several liberal offer from bud magazine for her to edit them gratis ; one long letter from a young girl inconsolable because her favourite hero die , and ` would dear Mrs Bhaer rewrite the tale , and make it end good ? '
another from an irate boy deny an autograph , who darkly foretell financial ruin and loss of favour if she do not send him and all other fellow who ask autograph , photograph , and auto-biographical sketch ; a minister wish to know her religion ; and an undecided maiden ask which of her two lover she should marry .
These sample will suffice to show a few of the claim make on a busy woman 's time , and make my reader pardon Mrs Jo if she do not carefully reply to all .
` That job be do .
Now I will dust a bit , and then go to my work .
I 'm all behind-hand , and serial ca n't wait ; so deny me to everybody , Mary .
I wo n't see Queen Victoria if she come today . '
And Mrs Bhaer throw down her napkin a if defy all creation . '
I hope the day will go well with thee , my dear , ' answer her husband , who have be busy with his own voluminous correspondence . '
I will dine at college with Professor Plock , who be to visit u today .
The Junglings can lunch on Parnassus ; so thou shalt have a quiet time . '
And smooth the worried line out of her forehead with his good-bye kiss , the excellent man march away , both pocket full of book , an old umbrella in one hand , and a bag of stone for the geology class in the other .
` If all literary woman have such thoughtful angel for husband , they would live long and write more .
Perhaps that would n't be a blessing to the world though , a most of u write too much now , ' say Mrs Jo , wave her feather duster to her spouse , who respond with flourish of the umbrella a he go down the avenue .
Rob start for school at the same time , look so much like him with his book and bag and square shoulder and steady air that his mother laugh a she turn away , say heartily : ` Bless both my dear professor , for good creature never live ! '
Emil be already go to his ship in the city ; but Ted linger to steal the address he want , ravage the sugar-bowl , and talk with ` Mum ' ; for the two have great lark together .
Mrs Jo always arrange her own parlour , refill her vas , and give the little touch that leave it cool and neat for the day .
Going to draw down the curtain , she behold an artist sketch on the lawn , and groan a she hastily retire to the back window to shake her duster .
At that moment the bell rang and the sound of wheel be hear in the road .
` I 'll go ; Mary let 'em in ' ; and Ted smooth his hair a he make for the hall .
` Ca n't see anyone .
Give me a chance to fly upstairs , ' whisper Mrs Jo , prepare to escape .
But before she could do so , a man appear at the door with a card in his hand .
Ted meet him with a stern air , and his mother dodge behind the window-curtains to bide her time for escape . '
I be do a series of article for the Saturday Tattler , and I call to see Mrs Bhaer the first of all , ' begin the newcomer in the insinuate tone of his tribe , while his quick eye be take in all they could , experience have taught him to make the most of his time , a his visit be usually short one .
` Mrs Bhaer never see reporter , sir . '
` But a few moment will be all I ask , ' say the man , edge his way far in .
` You ca n't see her , for she be out , ' reply Teddy , a a backward glance show him that his unhappy parent have vanish -- through the window , he suppose , a she sometimes do when hard bestead .
` Very sorry .
I 'll call again .
Is this her study ?
Charming room ! '
And the intruder fell back on the parlour , bound to see something and bag a fact if he die in the attempt .
` It be not , ' say Teddy , gently but firmly back him down the hall , devoutly hop that his mother have escape round the corner of the house .
` If you could tell me Mrs Bhaer 's age and birthplace , date of marriage , and number of child , I should be much oblige , ' continue the unabashed visitor a he trip over the door-mat .
` She be about sixty , bear in Nova Zembla , marry just forty year ago today , and have eleven daughter .
Anything else , sir ? '
And Ted 's sober face be such a funny contrast to his ridiculous reply that the reporter own himself rout , and retire laugh just a a lady follow by three beam girl come up the step .
` We be all the way from Oshkosh , and could n't go home without seein ' dear Aunt Jo .
My girl just admire her work , and lot on gettin ' a sight of her .
I know it 's early ; but we be goin ' to see Holmes and Longfeller , and the rest of the celebrity , so we run out here fust thing .
Mrs Erastus Kingsbury Parmalee , of Oshkosh , tell her .
We do n't mind waitin ' ; we can look round a spell if she ai n't ready to see folk yet . '
All this be uttered with such rapidity that Ted could only stand gaze at the buxom damsel , who fix their six blue eye upon him so beseechingly that his native gallantry make it impossible to deny them a civil reply at least .
` Mrs Bhaer be not visible today -- out just now , I believe ; but you can see the house and ground if you like , ' he murmur , fall back a the four press in gaze rapturously about them .
` Oh , thank you !
Sweet , pretty place I 'm sure !
That 's where she write , ai n't it ?
Do tell me if that 's her picture !
Looks just a I imagine her ! '
With these remark the lady pause before a fine engraving of the Hon . Mrs Norton , with a pen in her hand and a rapt expression of countenance , likewise a diadem and pearl necklace .
Keeping his gravity with an effort , Teddy point to a very bad portrait of Mrs Jo , which hang behind the door , and afford her much amusement , it be so dismal , in spite of a curious effect of light upon the end of the nose and cheek as red a the chair she sit in .
` This be take for my mother ; but it be not very good , ' he say , enjoy the struggle of the girl not to look dismay at the sad difference between the real and the ideal .
The young , age twelve , could not conceal her disappointment , and turn away , feel a so many of u have felt when we discover that our idol be very ordinary men and woman . '
I think she 'd be about sixteen and have her hair braid in two tail down her back .
I do n't care about see her now , ' say the honest child , walk off to the hall door , leave her mother to apologize , and her sister to declare that the bad portrait be ` perfectly lovely , so speaking and poetic , you know , ` specially about the brow ' .
` Come girl , we must be goin ' , if we want to get through today .
You can leave your album and have them send when Mrs Bhaer have write a sentiment in 'em .
We be a thousand time oblige .
Give our best love to your ma , and tell her we be so sorry not to see her . '
Just a Mrs. Erastus Kingsbury Parmalee utter the word her eye fell upon a middle-aged woman in a large checked apron , with a handkerchief tie over her head , busily dust an end room which look like a study .
` One peep at her sanctum since she be out , ' cry the enthusiastic lady , and sweep across the hall with her flock before Teddy could warn his mother , whose retreat have be cut off by the artist in front , the reporter at the back of the house -- for he have n't go and the lady in the hall .
` They 've get her ! '
thought Teddy , in comical dismay .
` No use for her to play housemaid since they 've see the portrait . '
Mrs Jo do her best , and be a good actress , would have escape if the fatal picture have not betray her .
Mrs Parmalee pause at the desk , and regardless of the meerschaum that lay there , the man 's slipper close by , and a pile of letter direct to ` Prof. F. Bhaer ' , she clasp her hand , exclaim impressively : ` Girls , this be the spot where she write those sweet , those moral tale which have thrill u to the soul !
Could I -- ah , could I take one morsel of paper , an old pen , a postage stamp even , a a memento of this gift woman ? '
` Yes 'm , help yourselves , ' reply the maid , move away with a glance at the boy , whose eye be now full of merriment he could not suppress .
The old girl saw it , guess the truth , and a quick look at the woman in the apron confirm her suspicion .
Touching her mother , she whisper : ` Ma , it 's Mrs Bhaer herself .
I know it be . '
` No ?
yes ?
it be !
Well , I do declare , how nice that be ! '
And hastily pursue the unhappy woman , who be make for the door , Mrs Parmalee cry eagerly : ` Do n't mind u !
I know you 're busy , but just let me take your hand and then we 'll go . '
Giving herself up for lose , Mrs Jo turn and present her hand like a tea-tray , submit to have it heartily shake , a the matron say , with somewhat alarm hospitality : ` If ever you come to Oshkosh , your foot wo n't be allow to touch the pavement ; for you 'll be bear in the arm of the populace , we shall be so dreadful glad to see you . '
Mentally resolve never to visit that effusive town , Jo respond as cordially a she could ; and have write her name in the album , provide each visitor with a memento , and kiss them all round , they at last departed , to call on ` Longfeller , Holmes , and the rest ' -- who be all out , it be devoutly to be hop .
` You villain , why do n't you give me a chance to whip away ?
Oh , my dear , what fib you tell that man !
I hope we shall be forgive our sin in this line , but I do n't know what be to become of u if we do n't dodge .
So many against one be n't fair play . '
And Mrs Jo hang up her apron in the hall closet , with a groan at the trial of her lot .
` More people come up the avenue !
Better dodge while the coast be clear !
I 'll head them off ! '
cry Teddy , look back from the step , a he be depart to school .
Mrs Jo fly upstairs , and have lock her door , calmly view a young lady ' seminary camp on the lawn , and be deny the house , proceed to enjoy themselves by pick the flower , do up their hair , eat lunch , and freely express their opinion of the place and it possessor before they go .
A few hour of quiet follow , and she be just settle down to a long afternoon of hard work , when Rob come home to tell her that the Young Men 's Christian Union would visit the college , and two or three of the fellow whom she know want to pay their respect to her on the way .
` It be go to rain , so they wo n't come , I dare say ; but father think you 'd like to be ready , in case they do call .
You always see the boy , you know , though you harden your heart to the poor girl , ' say Rob , who have hear from his brother about the morning visitation .
` Boys do n't gush , so I can stand it .
The last time I let in a party of girl one fell into my arm and say , `` Darling , love me ! ''
I want to shake her , ' answer Mrs Jo , wipe her pen with energy .
` You may be sure the fellow wo n't do it , but they will want autograph , so you 'd well be prepare with a few dozen , ' say Rob , lay out a quire of notepaper , be a hospitable youth and sympathize with those who admire his mother .
` They ca n't outdo the girl .
At X College I really believe I write three hundred during the day I be there , and I leave a pile of card and album on my table when I come away .
It be one of the most absurd and tiresome mania that ever afflict the world . '
Nevertheless Mrs Jo write her name a dozen time , put on her black silk , and resign herself to the impend call , pray for rain , however , a she return to her work .
The shower come , and feel quite secure , she rumple up her hair , take off her cuff , and hurry to finish her chapter ; for thirty page a day be her task , and she like to have it well do before evening .
Josie have bring some flower for the vas , and be just put the last touch when she saw several umbrella bob down the hill .
` They be come , Aunty !
I see uncle hurry across the field to receive them , ' she call at the stair-foot .
` Keep an eye on them , and let me know when they enter the avenue .
It will take but a minute to tidy up and run down , ' answer Mrs Jo , scribble away for dear life , because serial wait for no man , not even the whole Christian Union en masse .
` There be more than two or three .
I see half a dozen at least , ' call sister Ann from the hall door .
` No !
a dozen , I do believe ; Aunty , look out ; they be all come !
What shall we do ? '
And Josie quail at the idea of face the black throng rapidly approach .
` Mercy on u , there be hundred !
Run and put a tub in the back entry for their umbrella to drip into .
Tell them to go down the hall and leave them , and pile their hat on the table ; the tree wo n't hold them all .
No use to get mat ; my poor carpet ! '
And down go Mrs Jo to prepare for the invasion , while Josie and the maid fly about dismay at the prospect of so many muddy boot .
On they come , a long line of umbrella , with splash leg and flush face underneath ; for the gentleman have be have a good time all over the town , undisturbed by the rain .
Professor Bhaer meet them at the gate , and be make a little speech of welcome , when Mrs Jo , touch by their bedraggled state , appear at the door , beckon them in .
Leaving their host to orate bareheaded in the wet , the young men hasten up the step , merry , warm , and eager , clutch off their hat a they come , and struggle with their umbrella , a the order be pass to march in and stack arm .
Tramp , tramp , tramp , down the hall go seventy-five pair of boot ; soon seventy-five umbrella drip sociably in the hospitable tub , while their owner swarm all over the low part of the house ; and seventy-five hearty hand be shake by the hostess without a murmur , though some be wet , some very warm , and nearly all bore trophy of the day 's ramble .
One impetuous party flourish a small turtle a he make his compliment ; another have a load of stick cut from noted spot ; and all beg for some memento of Plumfield .
A pile of card mysteriously appear on the table , with a write request for autograph ; and despite her morning vow , Mrs Jo write everyone , while her husband and boy do the honour of the house .
Josie flee to the back parlour , but be discover by explore youth , and mortally insult by one of them , who innocently inquire if she be Mrs Bhaer .
The reception do not last long , and the end be good than the beginning ; for the rain cease , and a rainbow shone beautifully over them a the good fellow stand upon the lawn sing sweetly for a farewell .
A happy omen , that bow of promise arch over the young head , a if Heaven smile upon their union , and show them that above the muddy earth and rainy sky the bless sun still shine for all .
Three cheer , and then away they go , leave a pleasant recollection of their visit to amuse the family a they scrap the mud off the carpet with shovel and empty the tub half-full of water .
` Nice , honest , hard-working fellow , and I do n't begrudge my half-hour at all ; but I must finish , so do n't let anyone disturb me till tea-time , ' say Mrs Jo , leave Mary to shut up the house ; for papa and the boy have go off with the guest , and Josie have run home to tell her mother about the fun at Aunt Jo 's .
Peace reign for an hour , then the bell rang and Mary come giggle up to say : ' A queer kind of a lady want to know if she can catch a grasshopper in the garden . ' '
A what ? '
cry Mrs Jo , drop her pen with a blot ; for of all the odd request ever make , this be the odd . '
A grasshopper , ma'am .
I say you be busy , and ask what she want , and say she : `` I 've get grasshopper from the ground of several famous folk , and I want one from Plumfield to add to my collection . ''
Did you ever ? '
And Mary giggle again at the idea .
` Tell her to take all there be and welcome .
I shall be glad to get rid of them ; always bounce in my face and get in my dress , ' laugh Mrs Jo .
Mary retire , to return in a moment nearly speechless with merriment .
` She 's much oblige , ma'am , and she 'd like an old gown or a pair of stocking of yours to put in a rug she 's make .
Got a vest of Emerson 's , she say , and a pair of Mr. Holmes 's trouser , and a dress of Mrs Stowe 's .
She must be crazy ! '
` Give her that old red shawl , then I shall make a gay show among the great one in that astonishing rug .
Yes , they be all lunatic , these lion-hunter ; but this seem to be a harmless maniac , for she do n't take my time , and give me a good laugh , ' say Mrs Jo , return to her work after a glance from the window , which show her a tall , thin lady in rusty black , skip wildly to and fro on the lawn in pursuit of the lively insect she want .
No more interruption till the light begin to fade , then Mary pop her head in to say a gentleman wish to see Mrs Bhaer , and would n't take no for an answer .
` He must .
I shall not go down .
This have be an awful day , and I wo n't be disturb again , ' reply the harassed authoress , pause in the midst of the grand finale of her chapter . '
I tell him so , ma'am ; but he walk right in as bold a brass .
I guess he 's another crazy one , and I declare I 'm ` most afraid of him , he 's so big and black , and cool a cucumber , though I will say he 's good-looking , ' add Mary , with a simper ; for the stranger have evidently find favour in her sight despite his boldness .
` My day have be ruin , and I will have this last half-hour to finish .
Tell him to go away ; I wo n't go down , ' cry Mrs Jo , fiercely .
Mary go ; and listening , in spite of herself , her mistress heard first a murmur of voice , then a cry from Mary , and remember the way of reporter , also that her maid be both pretty and timid , Mrs Bhaer fling down her pen and go to the rescue .
Descending with her most majestic air she demand in an awe-inspiring voice , a she pause to survey the somewhat brigandish intruder , who seem to be storm the staircase which Mary be gallantly defend : ` Who be this person who insist on remain when I have decline to see him ? '
` I 'm sure I do n't know , ma'am .
He wo n't give no name , and say you 'll be sorry if you do n't see him , ' answer Mary , retire flush and indignant from her post .
` Wo n't you be sorry ? '
ask the stranger , look up with a pair of black eye full of laughter , the flash of white teeth through a long beard , and both hand out a he boldly approach the irate lady .
Mrs Jo give one keen look , for the voice be familiar ; then complete Mary 's bewilderment by throw both arm round the brigand 's neck , exclaim joyfully : ` My dearest boy , where do you come from ? '
` California , on purpose to see you , Mother Bhaer .
Now wo n't you be sorry if I go away ? '
answered Dan , with a hearty kiss .
` To think of my order you out of the house when I 've be long to see you for a year , ' laugh Mrs Jo , and she go down to have a good talk with her returned wanderer , who enjoy the joke immensely .
Chapter 4 .
DAN Mrs Jo often think that Dan have Indian blood in him , not only because of his love of a wild , wander life , but his appearance ; for a he grow up , this become more striking .
At twenty-five he be very tall , with sinewy limb , a keen , dark face , and the alert look of one whose sens be all alive ; rough in manner , full of energy , quick with word and blow , eye full of the old fire , always watchful a if use to keep guard , and a general air of vigour and freshness very charm to those who know the danger and delight of his adventurous life .
He be look his best a he sit talk with ` Mother Bhaer ' , one strong brown hand in hers , and a world of affection in his voice a he say : ` Forget old friend !
How could I forget the only home I ever know ?
Why , I be in such a hurry to come and tell my good luck that I do n't stop to fix up , you see ; though I know you 'd think I look more like a wild buffalo than ever , ' with a shake of his shaggy black head , a tug at his beard , and a laugh that make the room ring . '
I like it ; I always have a fancy for bandit -- and you look just like one .
Mary , be a newcomer , be frighten at your look and manner .
Josie wo n't know you , but Ted will recognize his Danny in spite of the big beard and flow mane .
They will all be here soon to welcome you ; so before they come tell me more about yourself .
Why , Dan , dear !
it 's nearly two year since you be here !
Has it go well with you ? '
ask Mrs Jo , who have be listen with maternal interest to his account of life in California , and the unexpected success of a small investment he have make .
` First-rate !
I do n't care for the money , you know .
I only want a trifle to pay my way -- rather earn a I go , and not be bother with the care of a lot .
It 's the fun of the thing come to me , and my be able to give away , that I like .
No use to lay up ; I sha n't live to be old and need it , -- my sort never do , ' say Dan , look a if his little fortune rather oppress him .
` But if you marry and settle somewhere , a I hope you will , you must have something to begin with , my son .
So be prudent and invest your money ; do n't give it away , for rainy day come to all of u , and dependence would be very hard for you to bear , ' answer Mrs Jo with a sage air , though she like to see that the money-making fever have not seize her lucky boy yet .
Dan shake his head , and glance about the room a if he already find it rather confine and long for all out-of-doors again .
` Who would marry a jack-o ' - lantern like me ?
Women like a steady-going man ; I shall never be that . '
` My dear boy , when I be a girl I like just such adventurous fellow a you be .
Anything fresh and daring , free and romantic , be always attractive to u womenfolk .
Do n't be discourage ; you 'll find an anchor some day , and be content to take short voyage and bring home a good cargo . '
` What should you say if I bring you an Indian squaw some day ? '
ask Dan , with a glimmer of mischief in the eye that rest on a marble bust of Galatea gleam white and lovely in the corner .
` Welcome her heartily , if she be a good one .
Is there a prospect of it ? '
and Mrs Jo peer at him with the interest which even literary lady take in love affair .
` Not at present , thank you .
I 'm too busy `` to gallivant '' , a Ted call it .
How be the boy ? '
ask Dan , skilfully turn the conversation , a if he have have enough of sentiment .
Mrs Jo be off at once , and expatiate upon the talent and virtue of her son till they come burst in and fell upon Dan like two affectionate young bear , find a vent for their joyful emotion in a sort of friendly wrestling-match ; in which both get worst , of course , for the hunter soon settle them .
The Professor follow , and tongue go like mill-clappers while Mary light up and cook devote herself to an unusually good supper , instinctively divine that this guest be a welcome one .
After tea Dan be walk up and down the long room a he talk , with occasional trip into the hall for a fresh breath of air , his lung seem to need more than those of civilized people .
In one of these trip he saw a white figure frame in the dark doorway , and pause to look at it .
Bess pause also , not recognize her old friend , and quite unconscious of the pretty picture she make stand , tall and slender , against the soft gloom of the summer night , with her golden hair like a halo round her head , and the end of a white shawl blow out like wing by the cool wind sweep through the hail .
` Is it Dan ? '
she ask , come in with a gracious smile and outstretched hand .
` Looks like it ; but I do n't know you , Princess .
I think it be a spirit , ' answered Dan , look down at her with a curious softness and wonder in his face .
` I 've grow very much , but two year have change you entirely ' ; and Bess look up with girlish pleasure at the picturesque figure before her -- for it be a decided contrast to the well-dressed people about her .
Before they could say more , Josie rush in , and , forgetfull of the newly acquire dignity of her teen , let Dan catch her up and kiss her like a child .
Not till he set her down do he discover she also be change , and exclaim in comic dismay : ` Hallo !
Why , you be grow up too !
What be I go to do , with no young one to play with ?
Here 's Ted go it like a beanstalk , and Bess a young lady , and even you , my mustard-seed , let down your frock and put on air . '
The girl laugh , and Josie blush a she star at the tall man , conscious that she have leap before she look .
They make a pretty contrast , these two young cousin -- one as fair a a lily , the other a little wild rise .
And Dan give a nod of satisfaction a he survey them ; for he have see many bonny girl in his travel , and be glad that these old friend be bloom so beautifully .
` Here !
we ca n't allow any monopoly of Dan ! '
call Mrs Jo .
` Bring him back and keep an eye on him , or he will be slip off for another little run of a year or two before we have half see him . '
Led by these agreeable captor , Dan return to the parlour to receive a scolding from Josie for get ahead of all the other boy and look like a man first .
'Em il be old ; but he 's only a boy , and dance jig and sings sailor song just a he use to .
You look about thirty , and a big and black a a villain in a play .
Oh , I 've get a splendid idea !
You be just the thing for Arbaces in The Last Days of Pompeii .
We want to act it ; have the lion and the gladiator and the eruption .
Tom and Ted be go to shower bushel of ash down and roll barrel of stone about .
We want a dark man for the Egyptian ; and you will be gorgeous in red and white shawl .
Wo n't he , Aunt Jo ? '
This deluge of word make Dan clap his hand over his ear ; and before Mrs Bhaer could answer her impetuous niece the Laurences , with Meg and her family , arrive , soon follow by Tom and Nan , and all sit down to listen to Dan 's adventure -- tell in brief yet effective manner , a the vary expression of interest , wonder , merriment , and suspense paint on the circle of face round him plainly show .
The boy all want to start at once for California and make fortune ; the girl could hardly wait for the curious and pretty thing he have pick up for them in his travel ; while the elder rejoice heartily over the energy and good prospect of their wild boy .
` Of course you will want to go back for another stroke of luck ; and I hope you will have it .
But speculation be a dangerous game , and you may lose all you 've win , ' say Mr Laurie , who have enjoy the stir tale as much a any of the boy , and would have like to rough it with Dan as well a they .
` I 've have enough of it , for a while at least ; too much like gamble .
The excitement be all I care for , and it be n't good for me .
I have a notion to try farm out West .
It 's grand on a large scale ; and I feel a if steady work would be rather jolly after loaf round so long .
I can make a beginning , and you can send me your black sheep to stock my place with .
I try sheep-farming in Australia , and know something about black one , any way . '
A laugh chase away the sober look in Dan 's face a he end ; and those who know him best guess that he have learn a lesson there in San Francisco , and dare not try again .
` That be a capital idea , Dan ! '
cry Mrs Jo , see great hope in this desire to fix himself somewhere and help others .
` We shall know where you be , and can go and see you , and not have half the world between u .
I 'll send my Ted for a visit .
He 's such a restless spirit , it would do him good .
With you he would be safe while he work off his surplus energy and learn a wholesome business . '
` I 'll use the `` shubble and de hoe '' like a good one , if I get a chance out there ; but the Speranza mine sound rather jolly , ' say Ted , examine the sample of ore Dan have bring for the Professor .
` You go and start a new town , and when we be ready to swarm we will come out and settle there .
You will want a newspaper very soon , and I like the idea of run one myself much well than grind away a I do now , ' observe Demi , pant to distinguish himself in the journalistic line .
` We could easily plant a new college there .
These sturdy Westerners be hungry for learn , and very quick to see and choose the best , ' add ever-young Mr March , behold with his prophetic eye many duplicate of their own flourishing establishment spring up in the wide West .
` Go on , Dan .
It be a fine plan , and we will back you up .
I should n't mind invest in a few prairie and cowboys myself , ' say Mr Laurie , always ready to help the lad to help themselves , both by his cheery word and ever-open purse . '
A little money sort of ballast a fellow , and invest it in land anchor him -- for a while , at least .
I 'd like to see what I can do , but I think I 'd consult you before I decide .
Have my doubt about it suit me for many year ; but I can cut loose when I 'm tired , ' answered Dan , both touch and please at the eager interest of these friend in his plan . '
I know you wo n't like it .
After have the whole world to roam over , one farm will seem dreadfully small and stupid , ' say Josie , who much prefer the romance of the wander life which bring her thrill tale and pretty thing at each return .
` Is there any art out there ? '
ask Bess , think what a good study in black and white Dan would make a he stand talk , half turn from the light .
` Plenty of nature , dear ; and that be well .
You will find splendid animal to model , and scenery such a you never saw in Europe to paint .
Even prosaic pumpkin be grand out there .
You can play Cinderella in one of them , Josie , when you open your theatre in Dansville , ' say Mr Laurie , anxious that no cold water should be throw on the new plan .
Stage-struck Josie be catch at once , and be promise all the tragic part on the yet unbuilt stage , she felt a deep interest in the project and beg Dan to lose no time in begin his experiment .
Bess also confess that study from nature would be good for her , and wild scenery improve her taste , which might grow over-nice if only the delicate and beautiful be set before her . '
I speak for the practice of the new town , ' say Nan , always eager for fresh enterprise . '
I shall be ready by the time you get well start -- town grow so fast out there . '
` Dan be n't go to allow any woman under forty in his place .
He do n't like them , ` specially young and pretty one , ' put in Tom , who be rag with jealousy , because he read admiration for Nan in Dan 's eye .
` That wo n't affect me , because doctor be exception to all rule .
There wo n't be much sickness in Dansville , everyone will lead such active , wholesome life , and only energetic young people will go there .
But accident will be frequent , owe to wild cattle , fast rid , Indian scrimmage , and the recklessness of Western life .
That will just suit me .
I long for broken bone , surgery be so interesting and I get so little here , ' answer Nan , yearn to put out her shingle and begin .
` I 'll have you , Doctor , and be glad of such a good sample of what we can do in the East .
Peg away , and I 'll send for you as soon a I have a roof to cover you .
I 'll scalp a few red fellow or smash up a dozen or so of cowboy for your special benefit , ' laugh Dan , well pleased with the energy and fine physique which make Nan a conspicuous figure among other girl .
` Thanks .
I 'll come .
Would you just let me feel your arm ?
Splendid biceps !
Now , boy , see here : this be what I call muscle . '
And Nan deliver a short lecture with Dan 's sinewy arm to illustrate it .
Tom retire to the alcove and glower at the star , while he swing his own right arm with a vigour suggestive of knock someone down .
` Make Tom sexton ; he 'll enjoy bury the patient Nan kill .
He 's try to get up the glum expression proper to the business .
Do n't forget him , Dan , ' say Ted , direct attention to the blight be in the corner .
But Tom never sulk long , and come out from his brief eclipse with the cheerful proposition : ` Look here , we 'll get the city to ship out to Dansville all the case of yellow fever , smallpox , and cholera that arrive ; then Nan will be happy and her mistake wo n't matter much with emigrant and convict . ' '
I should advise settle near Jacksonville , or some such city , that you might enjoy the society of cultivated person .
The Plato Club be there , and a most ardent thirst for philosophy .
Everything from the East be welcome hospitably , and new enterprise would flourish in such kindly soil , ' observe Mr March , mildly offer a suggestion , a he sit among the elder enjoy the lively scene .
The idea of Dan study Plato be very funny ; but no one except naughty Ted smile , and Dan make haste to unfold another plan seethe in that active brain of his .
` I 'm not sure the farming will succeed , and have a strong leaning towards my old friends the Montana Indians .
They be a peaceful tribe , and need help awfully ; hundred have die of starvation because they do n't get their share .
The Sioux be fighter , thirty thousand strong , so Government fear 'em , and give 'em all they want .
I call that a damned shame ! '
Dan stop short a the oath slip out , but his eye flash , and he go on quickly : ` It be just that , and I wo n't beg pardon .
If I 'd have any money when I be there I 'd have give every cent to those poor devil , cheat out of everything , and wait patiently , after be drive from their own land to place where nothing will grow .
Now , honest agent could do much , and I 've a feeling that I ought to go and lend a hand .
I know their lingo , and I like 'em .
I 've get a few thousand , and I ai n't sure I have any right to spend it on myself and settle down to enjoy it .
Hey ? '
Dan look very manly and earnest a he face his friend , flush and excite by the energy of his word ; and all felt that little thrill of sympathy which link heart together by the tie of pity for the wronged .
` Do it , do it ! '
cry Mrs Jo , fire at once ; for misfortune be much more interesting to her than good luck .
` Do it , do it ! '
echoed Ted , applaud a if at a play , ` and take me along to help .
I 'm just rag to get among those fine fellow and hunt . '
` Let u hear more and see if it be wise , ' say Mr Laurie , privately resolve to people his a yet unbought prairie with Montana Indians , and increase his donation to the society that send missionary to this much wrong people .
Dan plunge at once into the history of what he saw among the Dakotas , and other tribe in the Northwest , tell of their wrong , patience , and courage a if they be his brother .
` They call me Dan Fire Cloud , because my rifle be the best they ever saw .
And Black Hawk be as good a friend a a fellow would want ; save my life more than once , and teach me just what will be useful if I go back .
They be down on their luck , now , and I 'd like to pay my debt . '
By this time everyone be interested , and Dansville begin to lose it charm .
But prudent Mr Bhaer suggest that one honest agent among many could not do much , and noble a the effort would be , it be wiser to think over the matter carefully , get influence and authority from the right quarter , and meantime look at land before decide .
` Well , I will .
I 'm go to take a run to Kansas and see how that promise .
Met a fellow in ` Frisco who 'd be there , and he speak well of it .
The fact be , there 's so much to be do every where that I do n't know where to catch on , and half wish I have n't any money , ' answered Dan , knit his brow in the perplexity all kind soul feel when anxious to help at the great task of the world 's charity .
` I 'll keep it for you till you decide .
You be such an impetuous lad you 'll give it to the first beggar that get hold of you .
I 'll turn it over while you be prospect , and hand it back when you be ready to invest , shall I ? '
ask Mr Laurie , who have learn wisdom since the day of his own extravagant youth .
` Thanky , sir , I 'd be glad to get rid of it .
You just hold on till I say the word ; and if anything happen to me this time , keep it to help some other scamp a you help me .
This be my will , and you all witness it .
Now I feel well . '
And Dan square his shoulder a if relieve of a burden , after hand over the belt in which he carry his little fortune .
No one dream how much be to happen before Dan come to take his money back , nor how nearly that act be his last will and testament ; and while Mr Laurie be explain how he would invest it , a cheery voice be hear singing : ` Oh , Peggy be a jolly lass , Ye heave ho , boy , ye heave ho !
She never grudge her Jack a glass , Ye heave ho , boy , ye heave ho !
And when he sail the raging main , She faithful be unto her swain , Ye heave ho , boy , ye heave ho ! '
Emil always announce his arrival in that fashion , and in a moment he come hurry in with Nat , who have be give lesson in town all day .
It be good to see the latter beam at his friend a he nearly shake his hand off ; good still to see how Dan gratefully remember all he owe Nat , and try to pay the debt in his rough way ; and best of all to hear the two traveller compare note and reel off yarn to dazzle the land-lubbers and home-keepers .
After this addition the house would not contain the gay youngster , so they migrate to the piazza and settle on the step , like a flock of night-loving bird .
Mr March and the Professor retire to the study , Meg and Amy go to look after the little refection of fruit and cake which be to come , and Mrs Jo and Mr Laurie sit in the long window listening to the chat that go on outside .
` There they be , the flower of our flock ! '
she say , point to the group before them .
` The others be dead or scattered , but these seven boy and four girl be my especial comfort and pride .
Counting Alice Heath , my dozen be make up , and my hand be full try to guide these young life as far a human skill can do it . '
` When we remember how different they be , from what some of them come , and the home influence about others , I think we may feel pretty well satisfy so far , ' answer Mr Laurie soberly , a his eye rest on one bright head among the black and brown one , for the young moon shone alike on all . '
I do n't worry about the girl ; Meg see to them , and be so wise and patient and tender they ca n't help do well ; but my boy be more care every year , and seem to drift far away from me each time they go , ' sigh Mrs Jo .
` They will grow up , and I can only hold them by one little thread , which may snap at any time , a it have with Jack and Ned .
Dolly and George still like to come back , and I can say my word to them ; and dear old Franz be too true ever to forget his own .
But the three who be soon go out into the world again I ca n't help worry about .
Emil 's good heart will keep him straight , I hope , and ' `` A sweet little cherub sit up aloft , To look out for the life of poor Jack . '' '
Nat be to make his first flight , and he 's weak in spite of your strengthen influence ; and Dan be still untamed .
I fear it will take some hard lesson to do that . '
` He 's a fine fellow , Jo , and I almost regret this farming project .
A little polish would make a gentleman of him , and who know what he might become here among u , ' answer Mr Laurie , lean over Mrs Bhaer 's chair , just a he use to do year ago when they have mischievous secret together .
` It would n't be safe , Teddy .
Work and the free life he love will make a good man of him , and that be good than any amount of polish , with the danger an easy life in a city would bring him .
We ca n't change his nature -- only help it to develop in the right direction .
The old impulse be there , and must be control , or he will go wrong .
I see that ; but his love for u be a safeguard , and we must keep a hold on him till he be old or have a strong tie to help him . '
Mrs Jo speak earnestly , for , know Dan good than anyone else , she saw that her colt be not thoroughly break yet , and fear while she hop , know that life would always be hard for one like him .
She be sure that before he go away again , in some quiet moment he would give her a glimpse of his inner self , and then she could say the word of warn or encouragement that he need .
So she bid her time , study him meanwhile , glad to see all that be promising , and quick to detect the harm the world be do him .
She be very anxious to make a success of her ` firebrand ' because others predicted failure ; but have learn that people can not be mould like clay , she content herself with the hope that this neglected boy might become a good man , and ask no more .
Even that be much to expect , so full be he of wayward impulse , strong passion , and the lawless nature bear in him .
Nothing hold him but the one affection of his life -- the memory of Plumfield , the fear of disappoint these faithful friend , the pride , strong than principle , that make him want to keep the regard of the mate who always have admire and love him in spite of all his fault .
` Do n't fret , old dear ; Emil be one of the happy-go-lucky sort who always fall on their leg .
I 'll see to Nat , and Dan be in a good way now .
Let him take a look at Kansas , and if the farm plan lose it charm , he can fall back on poor Lo , and really do good out there .
He 's unusually fit for that peculiar task and I hope he 'll decide to do it .
Fighting oppressor , and befriend the oppress will keep those dangerous energy of his busy , and the life will suit him good than sheep-folds and wheat-fields . ' '
I hope so .
What be that ? '
and Mrs Jo lean forward to listen , a exclamation from Ted and Josie catch her ear . '
A mustang !
a real , live one ; and we can ride it .
Dan , you be a first-class trump ! '
cry the boy . '
A whole Indian dress for me !
Now I can play Namioka , if the boy act Metamora , ' add Josie , clap her hand . '
A buffalo 's head for Bess !
Good gracious , Dan , why do you bring such a horrid thing a that to her ? '
ask Nan .
` Thought it would do her good to model something strong and natural .
She 'll never amount to anything if she keep on make namby-pamby god and pet kitten , ' answered irreverent Dan , remember that when he be last here Bess be vibrate distractedly between a head of Apollo and her Persian cat a model .
` Thank you ; I 'll try it , and if I fail we can put the buffalo up in the hall to remind u of you , ' say Bess , indignant at the insult offer the god of her idolatry , but too well breed to show it except in her voice , which be a sweet and as cold a ice-cream . '
I suppose you wo n't come out to see our new settlement when the rest do ?
Too rough for you ? '
ask Dan , try to assume the deferential air all the boy use when address their Princess . '
I be go to Rome to study for year .
All the beauty and art of the world be there , and a lifetime be n't long enough to enjoy it , ' answer Bess .
` Rome be a mouldy old tomb compare to the `` Garden of the god '' and my magnificent Rockies .
I do n't care a hang for art ; nature be as much a I can stand , and I guess I could show you thing that would knock your old master higher than kite .
Better come , and while Josie rid the horse you can model 'em .
If a drove of a hundred or so of wild one ca n't show you beauty , I 'll give up , ' cried Dan , wax enthusiastic over the wild grace and vigour which he could enjoy but have no power to describe .
` I 'll come some day with papa , and see if they be good than the horse of St Mark and those on Capitol Hill .
Please do n't abuse my god , and I will try to like yours , ' say Bess , begin to think the West might be worth see , though no Raphael or Angelo have yet appear there .
` That 's a bargain !
I do think people ought to see their own country before they go scoot off to foreign part , a if the new world be n't worth discover , ' begin Dan , ready to bury the hatchet .
` It have some advantage , but not all .
The woman of England can vote , and we ca n't .
I 'm ashamed of America that she be n't ahead in all good thing , ' cry Nan , who hold advanced view on all reform , and be anxious about her right , have have to fight for some of them .
` Oh , please do n't begin on that .
People always quarrel over that question , and call name , and never agree .
Do let u be quiet and happy tonight , ' plead Daisy , who hat discussion as much a Nan love it .
` You shall vote as much a you like in our new town , Nan ; be mayor and alderman , and run the whole concern .
It 's go to be as free a air , or I ca n't live in it , ' say Dan , add , with a laugh , ' I see Mrs Giddygaddy and Mrs Shakespeare Smith do n't agree any good than they use to . '
` If everyone agree , we should never get on .
Daisy be a dear , but incline to be an old fogy ; so I stir her up ; and next fall she will go and vote with me .
Demi will escort u to do the one thing we be allow to do a yet . '
` Will you take 'em , Deacon ? '
ask Dan , use the old name a if he like it .
` It work capitally in Wyoming . ' '
I shall be proud to do it .
Mother and the aunt go every year , and Daisy will come with me .
She be my good half still ; and I do n't mean to leave her behind in anything , ' say Demi , with an arm round his sister of whom he be fonder than ever .
Dan look at them wistfully , think how sweet it must be to have such a tie ; and his lonely youth seem sad than ever a he recall it struggle .
A gusty sigh from Tom make sentiment impossible , a he say pensively : ' I always want to be a twin .
It 's so sociable and so cosy to have someone glad to lean on a fellow and comfort him , if other girl be cruel . '
As Tom 's unrequited passion be the stand joke of the family , this allusion produce a laugh , which Nan increase by whip out a bottle of Nux , say , with her professional air : ' I know you eat too much lobster for tea .
Take four pellet , and your dyspepsia will be all right .
Tom always sigh and be silly when he 's overeaten . '
` I 'll take 'em .
These be the only sweet thing you ever give me . '
And Tom gloomily crunch his dose . '
`` Who can minister to a mind diseased , or pluck out a rooted sorrow ? ''
quote Josie tragically from her perch on the railing .
` Come with me , Tommy , and I 'll make a man of you .
Drop your pill and powder , and cavort round the world a spell , and you 'll soon forget you 've get a heart , or a stomach either , ' say Dan , offer his one panacea for all ill .
` Ship with me , Tom .
A good fit of seasickness will set you up , and a stiff north-easter blow your blue-devils away .
Come along a surgeon -- easy berth , and no end of lark . ' '
`` And if your Nancy frown , my lad , And scorn a jacket blue , Just hoist your sail for other port , And find a maid more true . '' '
added Emil , who have a fragment of song to cheer every care and sorrow , and freely offer them to his friend .
` Perhaps I 'll think of it when I 've get my diploma .
I 'm not go to grind three mortal year and have nothing to show for it .
Till then , -- ' ` I 'll never desert Mrs Micawber , ' interrupt Teddy , with a gurgle sob .
Tom immediately roll him off the step into the wet grass below ; and by the time this slight skirmish be over , the jingle of teaspoon suggest refreshment of a more agreeable sort .
In former time the little girl wait on the boy , to save confusion ; now the young men fly to serve the lady , young and old ; and that slight fact show plainly how the table be turn by time .
And what a pleasant arrangement it be !
Even Josie sit still , and let Emil bring her berry ; enjoy her young lady-hood , till Ted steal her cake , when she forget manner , and chastise him with a rap on the knuckle .
As guest of honour , Dan be only allow to wait on Bess , who still hold the high place in this small world .
Tom carefully select the best of everything for Nan , to be crush by the remark : ' I never eat at this hour ; and you will have a nightmare if you do . '
So , dutifully curb the pang of hunger , he give the plate to Daisy , and chew rose-leaves for his supper .
When a surprising quantity of wholesome nourishment have be consume , someone say , ` Let 's sing ! '
and a tuneful hour follow .
Nat fiddle , Demi pip , Dan strum the old banjo , and Emil warble a doleful ballad about the wreck of the Bounding Betsey ; then everybody join in the old song till there be very decidedly ` music in the air ' ; and passer-by say , a they listen smile : ` Old Plum be gay tonight ! '
When all have go Dan linger on the piazza , enjoy the balmy wind that blow up from the hayfield , and bring the breath of flower from Parnassus ; and a he lean there romantically in the moonlight , Mrs Jo come to shut the door .
` Dreaming dream , Dan ? '
she ask , think the tender moment might have come .
Imagine the shock when , instead of some interesting confidence or affectionate word , Dan swung round , say bluntly : ' I be wish I could smoke . '
Mrs Jo laugh at the downfall of her hope , and answer kindly : ` You may , in your room ; but do n't set the house afire . '
Perhaps Dan saw a little disappointment in her face , or the memory of the sequel of that boyish frolic touch his heart ; for he stoop and kiss her , say in a whisper : ` Good night , mother . '
And Mrs Jo be half satisfied .
Chapter 5 .
VACATION Everyone be glad of a holiday next morning , and all linger over the breakfast-table , till Mrs Jo suddenly exclaim : ` Why , there 's a dog ! '
And on the threshold of the door appear a great deer-hound , stand motionless , with his eye fix on Dan .
` Hallo , old boy !
Could n't you wait till I come for you ?
Have you cut away on the sly ?
Own up now , and take your whip like a man , ' say Dan , rise to meet the dog , who rear on his hind leg to look his master in the face and bark a if utter an indignant denial of any disobedience .
` All right ; Don never lie . '
And Dan give the tall beast a hug , add a he glance out of the window , where a man and horse be see approach : ' I leave my plunder at the hotel over night , not know how I should find you .
Come out and see Octoo , my mustang ; she 's a beauty . '
And Dan be off , with the family streaming after him , to welcome the newcomer .
They find her prepare to go up the step in her eagerness to reach her master , to the great dismay of the man , who be hold her back .
` Let her come , ' call Dan ; ` she climb like a cat and jump like a deer .
Well , my girl , do you want a gallop ? '
he ask , a the pretty creature clatter up to him and whinny with pleasure a he rub her nose and slap her glossy flank .
` That 's what I call a horse worth have , ' say Ted , full of admiration and delight ; for he be to have the care of her during Dan 's absence .
` What intelligent eye !
She look a if she would speak , ' say Mrs Jo .
` She talk like a human in her way .
Very little that she do n't know .
Hey , old Lass ? '
and Dan lay his cheek to hers a if the little black mare be very dear to him .
` What do `` Octoo '' mean ? '
ask Rob .
` Lightning ; she deserve it , a you 'll see .
Black Hawk give her to me for my rifle , and we 've have high time together out yonder .
She 's save my life more than once .
Do you see that scar ? '
Dan point to a small one , half hide by the long mane ; and stand with his arm about Octoo 's neck , he tell the story of it .
` Black Hawk and I be after buffalo one time , but do n't find 'em as soon a we expect ; so our food give out , and there we be a hundred mile from Red Deer River , where our camp be .
I think we be do for , but my brave pal say : `` Now I 'll show you how we can live till we find the herd . ''
We be unsaddle for the night by a little pond ; there be n't a living creature in sight anywhere , not even a bird , and we could see for mile over the prairie .
What do you think we do ? '
And Dan look into the face round him .
` Ate worm like the Australian fellow , ' say Rob .
` Boiled grass or leave , ' add Mrs Jo .
` Perhaps fill the stomach with clay , a we read of savage do ? '
suggest Mr Bhaer .
` Killed one of the horse , ' cry Ted , eager for bloodshed of some sort .
` No ; but we bleed one of them .
See , just here ; fill a tin cup , put some wild sage leave in it , with water , and heat it over a fire of stick .
It be good , and we sleep well . ' '
I guess Octoo do n't . '
And Josie pat the animal , with a face full of sympathy .
` Never mind it a bit .
Black Hawk say we could live on the horse several day and still travel before they felt it .
But by another morning we find the buffalo , and I shoot the one whose head be in my box , ready to hang up and scare brat into fit .
He 's a fierce old fellow , you bet . '
` What be this strap for ? '
ask Ted , who be busily examine the Indian saddle , the single rein and snaffle , with lariat , and round the neck the leather band he speak of .
` We hold on to that when we lie along the horse 's flank farthest from the enemy , and fire under the neck a we gallop round and round .
I 'll show you . '
And spring into the saddle , Dan be off down the step , tear over the lawn at a great pace , sometimes on Octoo 's back , sometimes half hidden a he hang by stirrup and strap , and sometimes off altogether , run beside her a she lop along , enjoy the fun immensely ; while Don race after , in a canine rapture at be free again and with his mate .
It be a fine sight -- the three wild thing at play , so full of vigour , grace , and freedom , that for the moment the smooth lawn seem a prairie ; and the spectator felt a if this glimpse of another life make their own seem rather tame and colourless .
` This be good than a circus ! '
cry Mrs Jo , wish she be a girl again , that she might take a gallop on this chained lightning of a horse . '
I foresee that Nan will have her hand full set bone , for Ted will break every one of his try to rival Dan . ' '
A few fall will not harm , and this new care and pleasure will be good for him in all way .
But I fear Dan will never follow a plough after rid a Pegasus like that , ' answer Mr Bhaer , a the black mare leap the gate and come fly up the avenue , to stop at a word and stand quiver with excitement , while Dan swing himself off and look up for applause .
He receive plenty of it , and seem more pleased for his pet 's sake than for his own .
Ted clamour for a lesson at once , and be soon at ease in the queer saddle , find Octoo gentle a a lamb , a he trot away to show off at college .
Bess come hasten down the hill , have see the race from afar ; and all collect on the piazza while Dan ` yank ' the cover off the big box the express have ` dump ' before the door -- to borrow his own word .
Dan usually travel in light march order , and hat to have more luggage than he could carry in his well-worn valise .
But now that he have a little money of his own , he have cumber himself with a collection of trophy win by his bow and spear , and bring them home to bestow upon his friend .
` We shall be devour with moth , ' think Mrs Jo , a the shaggy head appear , follow by a wolf-skin rug for her foot , a bear-skin ditto for the Professor 's study , and Indian garment bedeck with fox ' tail for the boy .
All nice and warm for a July day , but receive with delight nevertheless .
Ted and Josie immediately ` dress up ' , learn the war-whoop , and proceed to astonish their friend by a series of skirmish about the house and ground , with tomahawk and bow and arrow , till weariness produce a lull .
Gay bird ' wing , plumy pampas grass , string of wampum , and pretty work in bead , bark , and feather , please the girl .
Minerals , arrow-heads , and crude sketch interest the Professor ; and when the box be empty , Dan give Mr Laurie , a his gift , several plaintive Indian song write on birch-bark .
` We only want a tent over u to be quite perfect .
I feel a if I ought to give you parch corn and dry meat for dinner , my brave .
Nobody will want lamb and green pea after this splendid pow-wow , ' say Mrs Jo , survey the picturesque confusion of the long hall , where people lay about on the rug , all more or less bedeck with feather , moccasin , or bead .
` Moose nose , buffalo tongue , bear steak , and roast marrow-bones would be the thing , but I do n't mind a change ; so bring on your baa-baa and green meat , ' answered Dan from the box , where he sit in state like a chief among his tribe , with the great hound at his foot .
The girl begin to clear up , but make little headway ; for everything they touch have a story , and all be thrill , comical , or wild ; so they find it hard to settle to their work , till Dan be carry off by Mr Laurie .
This be the beginning of the summer holiday , and it be curious to see what a pleasant little stir Dan 's and Emil 's come make in the quiet life of the studious community ; for they seem to bring a fresh breeze with them that enliven everyone .
Many of the collegian remain during vacation ; and Plumfield and Parnassus do their best to make these day pleasant for them , since most come from distant States , be poor , and have few opportunity but this for culture or amusement .
Emil be hail-fellow-well-met with men and maid , and go rollick about in true sailor fashion ; but Dan stand rather in awe of the ` fair girl-graduates ' , and be silent when among them , eye them a an eagle might a flock of dove .
He get on well with the young men , and be their hero at once .
Their admiration for his manly accomplishment do him good ; because he felt his educational defect keenly , and often wonder if he could find anything in book to satisfy him as thoroughly a do the lesson he be learn from Nature 's splendidly illustrated volume .
In spite of his silence , the girl find out his good quality , and regard ` the Spaniard ' , a they name him , with great favour ; for his black eye be more eloquent than his tongue , and the kind creature try to show their friendly interest in many charm way .
He saw this , and endeavour to be worthy of it -- curb his free speech , tone down his rough manner , and watch the effect of all he say and do , anxious to make a good impression .
The social atmosphere warm his lonely heart , the culture excite him to do his best , and the change which have take place during his absence , both in himself and others , make the old home seem like a new world .
After the life in California , it be sweet and restful to be here , with these familiar face round him , help him to forget much that he regret , and to resolve to deserve more entirely the confidence of these good fellow , the respect of these innocent girl .
So there be rid , rowing , and picnic by day , music , dancing , and play by night ; and everyone say there have not be so gay a vacation for year .
Bess keep her promise , and let the dust gather on her beloved clay while she go pleasuring with her mate or study music with her father , who rejoice over the fresh rose in her cheek and the laughter which chase away the dreamy look she use to wear .
Josie quarrel less with Ted ; for Dan have a way of look at her which quell her instantly , and have almost as good an effect upon her rebellious cousin .
But Octoo do even more for the lively youth , who find that her charm entirely eclipse those of the bicycle which have be his heart 's delight before .
Early and late he ride this untiring beast , and begin to gain flesh -- to the great joy of his mother , who fear that her beanstalk be grow too fast for health .
Demi , find business dull , solace his leisure by photograph everybody he could induce to sit or stand to him , produce some excellent picture among many failure ; for he have a pretty taste in grouping , and endless patience .
He might be say to view the world through the lens of his camera , and seem to enjoy himself very much squint at his fellow being from under a bit of black cambric .
Dan be a treasure to him ; for he take well , and willingly pose in his Mexican costume , with horse and hound , and all want copy of these effective photograph .
Bess , also , be a favourite sitter ; and Demi receive a prize at the Amateur Photographic Exhibition for one of his cousin with all her hair about her face , which rise from the cloud of white lace drape the shoulder .
These be freely hand round by the proud artist ; and one copy have a tender little history yet to be tell .
Nat be snatch every minute he could get with Daisy before the long parting ; and Mrs Meg relent somewhat , feel sure that absence would quite cure this unfortunate fancy .
Daisy say little ; but her gentle face be sad when she be alone , and a few quiet tear drop on the handkerchief she mark so daintily with her own hair .
She be sure Nat would not forget her ; and life look rather forlorn without the dear fellow who have be her friend since the day of patty-pan and confidence in the willow-tree .
She be an old-fashioned daughter , dutiful and docile , with such love and reverence for her mother that her will be law ; and if love be forbidden , friendship must suffice .
So she keep her little sorrow to herself , smile cheerfully at Nat , and make his last day of home-life very happy with every comfort and pleasure she could give , from sensible advice and sweet word to a well-filled work-bag for his bachelor establishment and a box of goody for the voyage .
Tom and Nan take all the time they could spare from their study to enjoy high jinks at Plumfield with their old friend ; for Emil 's next voyage be to be a long one , Nat 's absence be uncertain , and no one ever know when Dan would turn up again .
They all seem to feel that life be begin to grow serious ; and even while they enjoy those lovely summer day together they be conscious that they be child no longer , and often in the pause of their fun talk soberly of their plan and hope , a if anxious to know and help one another before they drift far apart on their different way .
A few week be all they have ; then the Brenda be ready , Nat be to sail from New York , and Dan go along to see him off ; for his own plan ferment in his head , and he be eager to be up and do .
A farewell dance be give on Parnassus in honour of the traveller , and all turn out in their best array and gay spirit .
George and Dolly come with the late Harvard air and grace , radiant to behold , in dress-suits and ` crushed hat ' , a Josie call the especial pride and joy of their boyish soul .
Jack and Ned send regret and best wish , and no one mourn their absence ; for they be among what Mrs Jo call her failure .
Poor Tom get into trouble , a usual , by deluge his head with some highly scent preparation in the vain hope of make his tight curl lie flat and smooth , a be the style .
Unhappily , his rebellious crop only kink the closer , and the odour of many barber ' shop cling to him in spite of his frantic effort to banish it .
Nan would n't allow him near her , and flap her fan vigorously whenever he be in sight ; which cut him to the heart , and make him feel like the Peri shut out from Paradise .
Of course his mate jeer at him , and nothing but the unquenchable jollity of his nature keep him from despair .
Emil be resplendent in his new uniform , and dance with an abandon which only sailor know .
His pump seem to be everywhere , and his partner soon lose breath try to keep up with him ; but the girl all declare he steer like an angel , and in spite of his pace no collision take place ; so he be happy , and find no lack of damsel to ship with him .
Having no dress-suit , Dan have be coax to wear his Mexican costume , and feel at ease in the many-buttoned trouser , loose jacket , and gay sash , fling his serape over his shoulder with a flourish and look his best , do great execution with his long spur , a he teach Josie strange step or roll his black eye admiringly after certain blonde damsel whom he dare not address .
The mamma sit in the alcove , supply pin , smile , and kindly word to all , especially the awkward youth new to such scene , and the bashful girl conscious of faded muslin and clean glove .
It be pleasant to see stately Mrs Amy promenade on the arm of a tall country boy , with thick boot and a big forehead , or Mrs Jo dance like a girl with a shy fellow whose arm go like pump-handles , and whose face be scarlet with confusion and pride at the honour of tread on the toe of the president 's wife .
Mrs Meg always have room on her sofa for two or three girl , and Mr Laurie devote himself to these plain , poorly dress damsel with a kindly grace that win their heart and make them happy .
The good Professor circulate like refreshment , and his cheerful face shone on all alike , while Mr March discuss Greek comedy in the study with such serious gentleman a never unbend their mighty mind to frivolous joy .
The long music-room , parlour , hall , and piazza be full of white-gowned maiden with attendant shadow ; the air be full of lively voice , and heart and foot go lightly together a the home band play vigorously , and the friendly moon do her best to add enchantment to the scene .
` Pin me up , Meg ; that dear Dunbar boy have nearly rent me `` in sunder '' , a Mr Peggotty would say .
But do n't he enjoy himself , bump against his fellow men and swing me round like a mop .
On these occasion I find that I 'm not as young a I be , nor a light of foot .
In ten year more we shall be meal-bags , sister ; so be resign . '
And Mrs Jo subside into a corner , much dishevel by her benevolent exertion . '
I know I shall be stout ; but you wo n't keep still long enough to get much flesh on your bone , dear ; and Amy will always keep her lovely figure .
She look about eighteen tonight , in her white gown and rose , ' answer Meg , busily pin up one sister 's torn frill , while her eye fondly follow the other 's graceful movement ; for Meg still adore Amy in the old fashion .
It be one of the family joke that Jo be get fat , and she keep it up , though a yet she have only acquire a matronly outline , which be very become .
They be laugh over the impend double chin , when Mr Laurie come off duty for a moment .
` Repairing damage a usual , Jo ?
You never could take a little gentle exercise without return in rag .
Come and have a quiet stroll with me and cool off before supper .
I 've a series of pretty tableau to show you while Meg listen to the rapture of lisp Miss Carr , whom I make happy by give her Demi for a partner . '
As he speak , Laurie lead Jo to the music-room , nearly empty now after a dance which send the young people into garden and hall .
Pausing before the first of the four long window that open on a very wide piazza , he point to a group outside , say : ` The name of this be `` Jack Ashore '' . '
A pair of long , blue leg , end in very neat pump , hung from the veranda roof among the vine ; and rose , gather by unseen hand , evidently appertain to aforesaid leg , be be drop into the lap of several girl perch like a flock of white bird on the railing below ; while a manly voice ` fell like a fall star ' , a it sing this pensive ditty to a most appreciative audience : MARY 'S DREAM The moon have climb the eastern hill Which rise o'er the sand of Dee , And from it high summit shed A silver light on tower and tree , When Mary lay her down to sleep -LRB- Her thought on Sandy far at sea -RRB- ; When soft and low a voice be hear , Saying , ` Mary , weep no more for me . '
She from her pillow gently raise Her head , to see who there might be , And saw young Sandy , shiver stand With visage pale and hollow e ` e. ` Oh Mary dear , cold be my clay ; It lie beneath the stormy sea ; Far , far from thee , I sleep in death .
Dear Mary , weep no more for me .
` Three stormy night and stormy day We toss upon the rag main .
And long we strive our bark to save ; But all our striving be in vain .
E'en then , when terror chill my blood , My heart be fill with love of thee .
The storm be past , and I 'm at rest ; So , Mary , weep no more for me .
` Oh maiden dear , yourself prepare ; We soon shall meet upon that shore Where love be free from doubt and care , And you and I shall part no more . '
Loud crew the cock , the shadow flee ; No more her Sandy do she see ; But soft the passing spirit say , ` Sweet Mary , weep no more for me . '
` The constant jollity of that boy be worth a fortune to him .
He 'll never sink with such a buoyant spirit to keep him afloat through life , ' say Mrs Jo , a the rose be toss back with much applause when the song end .
` Not he ; and it 's a blessing to be grateful for , be n't it ?
We moody people know it worth .
Glad you like my first tableau .
Come and see number two .
Hope it be n't spoil ; it be very pretty just now .
This be `` Othello tell his adventure to Desdemona '' . '
The second window frame a very picturesque group of three .
Mr March in an arm-chair , with Bess on a cushion at his foot , be listen to Dan , who , lean against a pillar , be talk with unusual animation .
The old man be in shadow , but little Desdemona be look up with the moonlight full upon her into young Othello 's face , quite absorb in the story he be tell so well .
The gay drapery over Dan 's shoulder , his dark colouring , and the gesture of his arm make the picture very striking , and both spectator enjoy it with silent pleasure , till Mrs Jo say in a quick whisper : ` I 'm glad he 's go away .
He 's too picturesque to have here among so many romantic girl .
Afraid his `` grand , gloomy , and peculiar '' style will be too much for our simple maid . '
` No danger ; Dan be in the rough a yet , and always will be , I fancy ; though he be improve in many way .
How well Queenie look in that soft light ! '
` Dear little Goldilocks look well everywhere . '
And with a backward glance full of pride and fondness , Mrs Jo go on .
But that scene return to her long afterward and her own prophetic word also .
Number three be a tragical tableau at first sight ; and Mr Laurie stifle a laugh a he whisper ` The Wounded Knight ' , point to Tom with his head envelop in a large handkerchief , a he kneel before Nan , who be extract a thorn or splinter from the palm of his hand with great skill , to judge from the patient 's blissful expression of countenance .
` Do I hurt you ? '
she ask , turn the hand to the moonlight for a good view .
` Not a bit ; dig away ; I like it , ' answer Tom , regardless of his ache knee and the damage do to his best trouser . '
I wo n't keep you long . '
` Hours , if you please .
Never so happy a here . '
Quite unmoved by this tender remark , Nan put on a pair of large , round-eyed glass , say in a matter-of-fact tone : ` Now I see it .
Only a splinter , and there it be .
` My hand be bleed ; wo n't you bind it up ? '
ask Tom , wish to prolong the situation .
` Nonsense ; suck it .
Only take care of it tomorrow if you dissect .
Do n't want any more blood-poisoning . '
` That be the only time you be kind to me .
Wish I 'd lose my arm . ' '
I wish you 'd lose your head ; it smell more like turpentine and kerosene than ever .
Do take a run in the garden and air it . '
Fearing to betray themselves by laughter , the watcher go on , leave the Knight to rush away in despair , and the Lady to bury her nose in the cup of a tall lily for refreshment .
` Poor Tom , his fate be a hard one , and he 's waste his time !
Do advise him to quit philandering and go to work , Jo . ' '
I have , Teddy , often ; but it will take some great shock to make that boy wise .
I wait with interest to see what it will be .
Bless me !
what be all this ? '
She might well ask ; for on a rustic stool stand Ted try to pose on one foot , with the other extended , and both hand wave in the air .
Josie , with several young mate , be watch his contortion with deep interest a they talk about ` little wing ' , ` gild wire twist ' , and a ` cunning skull-cap ' .
` This might be call `` Mercury Trying to Fly '' , ' say Mr Laurie , a they peep through the lace curtain .
` Bless the long leg of that boy !
how do he expect to manage them ?
They be plan for the Owlsdark Marbles , and a nice muddle they will make of my god and goddess with no one to show them how , ' answer Mrs Jo , enjoy this scene immensely .
` Now , he 's get it ! '
` That 's perfectly splendid ! '
` See how long you can keep so ! '
cry the girl , a Ted manage to maintain his equilibrium a moment by rest one toe on the trellis .
Unfortunately this bring all his weight on the other foot ; the straw seat of the stool give way , and the flying Mercury come down with a crash , amid shriek of laughter from the girl .
Being accustom to ground and lofty tumbling , he quickly recover himself , and hop gaily about , with one leg through the stool a he improvise a classic jig .
` Thanks for four nice little picture .
You have give me an idea , and I think some time we will get up regular tableau of this sort and march our company round a set of dissolve view .
New and striking ; I 'll propose it to our manager and give you all the glory , ' say Mrs Jo , a they stroll towards the room whence come the clash of glass and china , and glimpse of agitated black coat .
Let u follow the example of our old friend and stroll about among the young people , eavesdropping , so gather up various little thread to help in the weaving of the story .
George and Dolly be at supper , and have serve the lady in their care stand in a corner absorb nourishment of all kind with a vain attempt to conceal hearty appetite under an air of elegant indifference .
` Good spread , this ; Laurence do thing in style .
First-rate coffee , but no wine , and that 's a mistake , ' say Stuffy , who still deserve his name , and be a stout youth with a heavy eye and bilious complexion .
` Bad for boy , he say .
Jove !
wish he could see u at some of our wine .
Do n't we just `` splice the main brace '' a Emil say , ' answer Dolly , the dandy , carefully spread a napkin over the glossy expanse of shirt-front whereon a diamond stud shone like a lone star .
His stutter be nearly outgrown ; but he , as well a George , speak in the tone of condescension , which , with the blase air they assume , make a very funny contrast to their youthful face and foolish remark .
Good-hearted little fellow both , but top-heavy with the pride of be Sophs and the freedom that college life give them .
` Little Jo be get to be a deuced pretty girl , be n't she ? '
say George , with a long sigh of satisfaction a his first mouthful of ice go slowly down his throat .
` H 'm -- well , fairish .
The Princess be rather more to my taste .
I like 'em blonde and queenly and elegant , do n't you know . '
` Yes , Jo be too lively ; might as well dance with a grasshopper .
I 've try her , and she 's one too many for me .
Miss Perry be a nice , easy-going girl .
Got her for the german . '
` You 'll never be a dancing man .
Too lazy .
Now I 'll undertake to steer any girl and dance down any fellow you please .
Dancing 's my forte . '
And Dolly glance from his trim foot to his flash gem with the defiant air of a young turkey-cock on parade .
` Miss Grey be look for you .
Wants more grub .
Just see if Miss Nelson 's plate be empty , there 's a good fellow .
Ca n't eat ice in a hurry . '
And George remain in his safe corner , while Dolly struggle through the crowd to do his duty , come back in a fume , with a splash of salad dress on his coat-cuff .
` Confound these country chap !
they go blunder round like so many dor-bugs , and make a deuce of a mess .
Better stick to book and not try to be society men .
Ca n't do it .
Beastly stain .
Give it a rub , and let me bolt a mouthful , I 'm starved .
Never saw girl eat such a lot .
It prove that they ought not to study so much .
Never like co-ed , ' growl Dolly , much ruffle in spirit .
` So they do .
'T be n't ladylike .
Ought to be satisfy with an ice and a bit of cake , and eat it prettily .
Do n't like to see a girl feed .
We hard-working men need it , and , by Jove , I mean to get some more of that meringue if it 's not all go .
Here , waiter !
bring along that dish over there , and be lively , ' command Stuffy , poke a young man in a rather shabby dress-suit , who be pass with a tray of glass .
His order be obey promptly ; but George 's appetite be take away the next moment by Dolly 's exclaiming , a he look up from his damage coat , with a scandalized face : ` You 've put your foot in it now , old boy !
that 's Morton , Mr Bhaer 's crack man .
Knows everything , no end of a `` dig '' , and bound to carry off all the honour .
You wo n't hear the last of it in a hurry . '
And Dolly laugh so heartily that a spoonful of ice fly upon the head of a lady sit below him , and get him into a scrape also .
Leaving them to their despair , let u listen to the whispered chat of two girl comfortably seat in a recess wait till their escort be feed . '
I do think the Laurences give lovely party .
Do n't you enjoy them ? '
ask the young , look about her with the eager air of one unused to this sort of pleasure .
` Very much , only I never feel a if I be dress right .
My thing seem elegant at home , and I think I 'd be over over-dressed if anything ; but I look countrified and dowdy here .
No time or money to change now , even if I know how to do it , ' answer the other , glance anxiously at her bright pink silk grow , trim with cheap lace .
` You must get Mrs Brooke to tell you how to fix your thing .
She be very kind to me .
I have a green silk , and it look so cheap and horrid by the side of the nice dress here I felt regularly unhappy about it , and ask her how much a dress like one Mrs Laurence have would cost .
That look so simple and elegant I think it would n't be costly ; but it be India mull and Valenciennes lace , so , of course , I could n't have it .
Then Mrs Brooke say : `` Get some muslin to cover the green silk , and wear hop or some white flower , instead of pink , in your hair , and you will have a pretty suit . ''
Is n't it lovely and become ? '
And Miss Burton survey herself with girlish satisfaction ; for a little taste have soften the harsh green , and hop-bells become her red hair well than rose .
` It 's sweet : I 've be admire it .
I 'll do mine so and ask about my purple one .
Mrs Brooke have help me to get rid of my headache , and Mary Clay 's dyspepsia be all go since she give up coffee and hot bread . '
` Mrs Laurence advise me to walk and run and use the gymnasium to cure my round shoulder and open my chest , and I 'm a much good figure than I be . '
` Did you know that Mr Laurence pay all Amelia Merrill 's bill ?
Her father fail , and she be heartbroken at have to leave college ; but that splendid man just step in and make it all right . '
` Yes , and Professor Bhaer have several of the boy down at his house evening to help them along so they can keep up with the rest ; and Mrs Bhaer take care of Charles Mackey herself when he have a fever last year .
I do think they be the best and kind people in the world . '
` So do I , and my time here will be the happy and most useful year of my life . '
And both girl forget their gown and their supper for a moment to look with grateful , affectionate eye at the friend who try to care for body and for soul as well a mind .
Now come to a lively party sup on the stair , girl like foam at the top , and a substratum of youth below , where the heavy particle always settle .
Emil , who never sit if he could climb or perch , adorn the newel-post ; Tom , Nat , Demi , and Dan be camp on the step , eat busily , a their lady be well serve and they have earn a moment 's rest , which they enjoy with their eye fix on the pleasing prospect above them .
` I 'm so sorry the boy be go .
It will be dreadfully dull without them .
Now they have stop teasing and be polite , I really enjoy them , ' say Nan , who felt unusually gracious tonight a Tom 's mishap keep him from annoy her .
` So do I ; and Bess be mourn about it today , though a a general thing she do n't like boy unless they be model of elegance .
She have be do Dan 's head , and it be not quite finish .
I never saw her so interested in any work , and it 's very well do .
He be so striking and big he always make me think of the Dying Gladiator or some of those antique creature .
There 's Bess now .
Dear child , how sweet she look tonight ! '
answered Daisy , wave her hand a the Princess go by with Grandpa on her arm . '
I never think he would turn out so well .
Do n't you remember how we use to call him `` the bad boy '' and be sure he would become a pirate or something awful because he glare at u and swear sometimes ?
Now he be the handsomest of all the boy , and very entertaining with his story and plan .
I like him very much ; he 's so big and strong and independent .
I 'm tired of mollycoddle and book-worms , ' say Nan in her decided way .
` Not handsomer that Nat ! '
cry loyal Daisy , contrast two face below , one unusually gay , the other sentimentally sober even in the act of munch cake . '
I like Dan , and be glad he be do well ; but he tire me , and I 'm still a little afraid of him .
Quiet people suit me best . '
` Life be a fight , and I like a good soldier .
Boys take thing too easily , do n't see how serious it all be and go to work in earnest .
Look at that absurd Tom , waste his time and make an object of himself just because he ca n't have what he want , like a baby cry for the moon .
I 've no patience with such nonsense , ' scold Nan , look down at the jovial Thomas , who be playfully put macaroon in Emil 's shoe , and try to beguile his exile a best he could .
` Most girl would be touch by such fidelity .
I think it 's beautiful , ' say Daisy behind her fan ; for other girl sit just below .
` You be a sentimental goose and not a judge .
Nat will be twice the man when he come back after his trip .
I wish Tom be go with him .
My idea be that if we girls have any influence we should use it for the good of these boy , and not pamper them up , make slave of ourselves and tyrant of them .
Let them prove what they can do and be before they ask anything of u , and give u a chance to do the same .
Then we know where we be , and shall not make mistake to mourn over all our life . '
` Hear , hear ! '
cried Alice Heath , who be a girl after Nan 's own heart , and have choose a career , like a brave and sensible young woman .
` Only give u a chance , and have patience till we can do our best .
Now we be expect to be as wise a men who have have generation of all the help there be , and we scarcely anything .
Let u have equal opportunity , and in a few generation we will see what the judgement be .
I like justice , and we get very little of it . '
` Still shout the battle-cry of freedom ? '
ask Demi , peer through the banister at this moment .
` Up with your flag !
I 'll stand by and lend a hand if you want it .
With you and Nan to lead the van , I think you wo n't need much help . '
` You be a great comfort , Demi , and I 'll call on you in all emergency ; for you be an honest boy , and do n't forget that you owe much to your mother and your sister and your aunt , ' continue Nan . '
I do like men who come out frankly and own that they be not god .
How can we think them so when such awful mistake be be make all the time by these great creature ?
See them sick , a I do , then you know them . '
` Do n't hit u when we be down ; be merciful , and set u up to bless and believe in you evermore , ' plead Demi from behind the bar .
` We 'll be kind to you if you will be just to u .
I do n't say generous , only just .
I go to a suffrage debate in the Legislature last winter ; and of all the feeble , vulgar twaddle I ever hear , that be the bad ; and those men be our representative .
I blush for them , and the wife and mother .
I want an intelligent man to represent me , if I ca n't do it myself , not a fool . '
` Nan be on the stump .
Now we shall catch it , ' cried Tom , put up an umbrella to shield his unhappy head ; for Nan 's earnest voice be audible , and her indignant eye happen to rest on him a she speak .
` Go on , go on !
I 'll take note , and put in `` great applause '' liberally , ' add Demi , produce his ball-book and pencil , with his Jenkins air .
Daisy pinch his nose through the bar , and the meeting be rather tumultuous for a moment , for Emil call : ` Avast , avast , here 's a squall to wind ` ard ' ; Tom applaud wildly ; Dan look up a if the prospect of a fight , even with word , please him , and Nat go to support Demi , a his position seem to be a good one .
At this crisis , when everyone laugh and talk at once , Bess come float through the upper hall and look down like an angel of peace upon the noisy group below , a she ask , with wonder eye and smile lip : ` What be it ? '
` An indignation meeting .
Nan and Alice be on the rampage , and we be at the bar to be try for our life .
Will Your Highness preside and judge between u ? '
answer Demi , a a lull at once take place ; for no one riot in the presence of the Princess .
` I 'm not wise enough .
I 'll sit here and listen .
Please go on . '
And Bess take her place above them all a cool and calm a a little statue of Justice , with fan and nosegay in place of sword and scale .
` Now , lady , free your mind , only spare u till morning ; for we 've get a german to dance as soon a everyone be feed , and Parnassus expect every man to do his duty .
Mrs President Giddy-gaddy have the floor , ' say Demi , who like this sort of fun well than the very mild sort of flirtation which be allow at Plumfield , for the simple reason that it could not be entirely banish , and be a part of all education , co - or otherwise . '
I have only one thing to say , and it be this , ' begin Nan soberly , though her eye sparkle with a mixture of fun and earnestness . '
I want to ask every boy of you what you really think on this subject .
Dan and Emil have see the world and ought to know their own mind .
Tom and Nat have have five example before them for year .
Demi be ours and we be proud of him .
So be Rob .
Ted be a weathercock , and Dolly and George , of course , be fogy in spite of the Annex , and girl at Girton go ahead of the men .
Commodore , be you ready for the question ? '
` Ay , ay , skipper . '
` Do you believe in Woman 's Suffrage ? '
` Bless your pretty figger head !
I do , and I 'll ship a crew of girl any time you say so .
Are n't they bad than a press-gang to carry a fellow out of his mooring ?
Do n't we all need one a pilot to steer u safe to port ?
and why should n't they share our mess afloat and ashore since we be sure to be wreck without 'em ? '
` Good for you , Emil !
Nan will take you for first mate after that handsome speech , ' say Demi , a the girl applaud , and Tom glower .
` Now , Dan , you love liberty so well yourself , be you willing we should have it ? '
` All you can get , and I 'll fight any man who 's mean enough to say you do n't deserve it . '
This brief and forcible reply delight the energetic President , and she beam upon the member from California , a she say briskly : ` Nat would n't dare to say he be on the other side even if he be , but I hope he have make up his mind to pipe for u , at least when we take the field , and not be one of those who wait till the battle be win , and then beat the drum and share the glory . '
Mrs Giddy-gaddy 's doubt be most effectually remove , and her sharp speech regret , a Nat look up blushing , but with a new sort of manliness in face and manner , say , in a tone that touch them all : ' I should be the most ungrateful fellow alive if I do not love , honour , and serve woman with all my heart and might , for to them I owe everything I be or ever shall be . '
Daisy clap her hand , and Bess throw her bouquet into Nat 's lap , while the other girl wave their fan , well pleased ; for real feeling make his little speech eloquent .
` Thomas B. Bangs , come into court , and tell the truth , the whole truth , and nothing but the truth , if you can , ' command Nan , with a rap to call the meeting to order .
Tom shut the umbrella , and stand up raise his hand , say solemnly : ' I believe in suffrage of all kind .
I adore all woman , and will die for them at any moment if it will help the cause . '
` Living and work for it be hard , and therefore more honourable .
Men be always ready to die for u , but not to make our life worth have .
Cheap sentiment and bad logic .
You will pass , Tom , only do n't twaddle .
Now , have take the sense of the meeting we will adjourn , a the hour for festive gymnastics have arrive .
I be glad to see that old Plum have give six true men to the world , and hope they will continue to be staunch to her and the principle she have teach them , wherever they may go .
Now , girl , do n't sit in draught , and , boy , beware of ice-water when you be warm . '
With this characteristic close Nan retire from office , and the girl go to enjoy one of the few right allow them .
Chapter 6 .
LAST WORDS The next day be Sunday , and a goodly troop of young and old set forth to church .
-- some driving , some walking , all enjoy the lovely weather and the happy quietude which come to refresh u when the work and worry of the week be over .
Daisy have a headache ; and Aunt Jo remain at home to keep her company , know very well that the bad ache be in the tender heart struggle dutifully against the love that grow strong a the parting draw nearer .
` Daisy know my wish , and I trust her .
You must keep an eye on Nat , and let him clearly understand that there be to be no `` lovering '' , or I shall forbid the letter-writing .
I hate to seem cruel , but it be too soon for my dear girl to bind herself in any way , ' say Mrs Meg , a she rustle about in her best grey silk , while wait for Demi , who always escort his pious mother to church a a peace-offering for cross her wish in other thing . '
I will , dear ; I 'm lie in wait for all three boy today , like an old spider ; and I will have a good talk with each .
They know I understand them , and they always open their heart sooner or later .
You look like a nice , plump little Quakeress , Meg ; and no one will believe that big boy be your son , ' add Mrs Jo , a Demi come in shin with Sunday neatness , from his well-blacked boot to his smooth brown head .
` You flatter me , to soften my heart toward your boy .
I know your way , Jo , and I do n't give in .
Be firm , and spare me a scene by and by .
As for John , as long a he be satisfied with his old mother , I do n't care what people think , ' answer Mrs Meg , accept with a smile the little posy of sweet pea and mignonette Demi bring her .
Then , have button her dove-coloured glove with care , she take her son 's arm and go proudly away to the carriage , where Amy and Bess wait , while Jo call after them , just a Marmee use to do : ` Girls , have you get nice pocket-handkerchief ? '
They all smile at the familiar word , and three white banner wave a they drive away , leave the spider to watch for her first fly .
She do not wait long .
Daisy be lie down with a wet cheek on the little hymnbook out of which she and Nat use to sing together ; so Mrs Jo stroll about the lawn , look very like a wandering mushroom with her large buff umbrella .
Dan have go for a ten-mile stroll ; and Nat be suppose to have accompany him , but presently come sneak back , unable to tear himself away from the Dovecote or lose a moment of nearness to his idol that last day .
Mrs Jo saw him at once , and beckon him to a rustic seat under the old elm , where they could have their confidence undisturbed , and both keep an eye on a certain white-curtained window , half hidden in vine .
` Nice and cool here .
I 'm not up to one of Dan 's tramp today -- it 's so warm , and he go so like a steam-engine .
He head for the swamp where his pet snake use to live , and I beg to be excuse , ' say Nat , fan himself with his straw hat , though the day be not oppressive .
` I 'm glad you do .
Sit and rest with me , and have one of our good old talk .
We 've both be so busy lately , I feel a if I do n't half know your plan ; and I want to , ' answer Mrs Jo , feel sure that though they might start with Leipzig they would bring up at Plumfield .
` You be very kind , and there 's nothing I 'd like good .
I do n't realize I 'm go so far -- suppose I sha n't till I get afloat .
It 's a splendid start , and I do n't know how I can ever thank Mr Laurie for all he 's do , or you either , ' add Nat , with a break in his voice ; for he be a tender-hearted fellow , and never forget a kindness .
` You can thank u beautifully by be and do all we hope and expect of you , my dear .
In the new life you be go to there will be a thousand trial and temptation , and only your own wit and wisdom to rely on .
That will be the time to test the principle we have try to give you , and see how firm they be .
Of course , you will make mistake -- we all do ; but do n't let go of your conscience and drift along blindly .
Watch and pray , dear Nat ; and while your hand gain skill , let your head grow wiser , and keep your heart a innocent and warm a it be now . '
` I 'll try , Mother Bhaer , my very best to be a credit to you .
I know I shall improve in my music -- ca n't help it there ; but I never shall be very wise , I 'm afraid .
As for my heart , you know , I leave it behind me in good keep . '
As he speak , Nat 's eye be fix on the window with a look of love and longing that make his quiet face both manly and sad -- plainly show how strong a hold this boyish affection have upon him . '
I want to speak of that ; and I know you will forgive what seem hard , because I do most heartily sympathize with you , ' say Mrs Jo , glad to have her say .
` Yes , do talk about Daisy !
I think of nothing but leave and lose her .
I have no hope -- I suppose it be too much to ask ; only I ca n't help love her , wherever I be ! '
cry Nat , with a mixture of defiance and despair in his face that rather startle Mrs Jo .
` Listen to me and I 'll try to give you both comfort and good advice .
We all know that Daisy be fond of you , but her mother object , and be a good girl she try to obey .
Young people think they never can change , but they do in the most wonderful manner , and very few die of broken heart . '
Mrs Jo smile a she remember another boy whom she have once try to comfort , and then go soberly on while Nat listen a if his fate hung upon her lip .
` One of two thing will happen .
You will find someone else to love , or , good still , be so busy and happy in your music that you will be willing to wait for time to settle the matter for you both .
Daisy will perhaps forget when you be go , and be glad you be only friend .
At any rate it be much wise to have no promise make ; then both be free , and in a year or two may meet to laugh over the little romance nip in the bud . '
` Do you honestly think that ? '
ask Nat , look at her so keenly that the truth have to come ; for all his heart be in those frank blue eye of his .
` No , I do n't ! '
answer Mrs Jo .
` Then if you be in my place , what would you do ? '
he add , with a tone of command never hear in his gentle voice before .
` Bless me !
the boy be in dead earnest , and I shall forget prudence in sympathy I 'm afraid , ' think Mrs Jo , surprise and pleased by the unexpected manliness Nat show .
` I 'll tell you what I should do .
I 'd say to myself : `` I 'll prove that my love be strong and faithful , and make Daisy 's mother proud to give her to me by be not only a good musician but an excellent man , and so command respect and confidence .
This I will try for ; and if I fail , I shall be the good for the effort , and find comfort in the thought that I do my best for her sake . '' '
` That be what I mean to do .
But I want a word of hope to give me courage , ' cry Nat , fire up a if the smouldering spark be set ablaze by a breath of encouragement .
` Other fellow , poorer and stupider than I , have do great thing and come to honour .
Why may not I , though I 'm nothing now ?
I know Mrs Brooke remember what I come from , but my father be honest though everything go wrong ; and I have nothing to be ashamed of though I be a charity boy .
I never will be ashamed of my people or myself , and I 'll make other folk respect me if I can . '
` Good !
that 's the right spirit , Nat .
Hold to it and make yourself a man .
No one will be quick to see and admire the brave work than my sister Meg .
She do not despise your poverty or your past ; but mother be very tender over their daughter , and we Marches , though we have be poor , be , I confess , a little proud of our good family .
We do n't care for money ; but a long line of virtuous ancestor be something to desire and to be proud of . '
` Well , the Blakes be a good lot .
I look 'em up , and not one be ever in prison , hang , or disgrace in any way .
We use to be rich and honoured year ago , but we 've die out and get poor , and father be a street musician rather than beg ; and I 'll be one again before I 'll do the mean thing some men do and pass muster . '
Nat be so excited that Mrs Jo indulge in a laugh to calm him , and both go on more quietly . '
I tell my sister all that and it please her .
I be sure if you do well these next few year that she will relent and all be happily settle , unless that wonderful change , which you do n't believe possible , should occur .
Now , cheer up ; do n't be lackadaisical and blue .
Say good-bye cheerfully and bravely , show a manly front , and leave a pleasant memory behind you .
We all wish you well and hope much for you .
Write to me every week and I 'll send a good , gossipy answer .
Be careful what you write to Daisy ; do n't gush or wail , for sister Meg will see the letter ; and you can help your cause very much by send sensible , cheery account of your life to u all . ' '
I will ; I will ; it look brighter and good already , and I wo n't lose my one comfort by any fault of my own .
Thank you so much , Mother Bhaer , for take my side .
I felt so ungrateful and mean and crush when I think you all consider me a sneak who have no business to love such a precious girl a Daisy .
No one say anything , but I know how you felt , and that Mr Laurie send me off partly to get me out of the way .
Oh dear , life be pretty tough sometimes , be n't it ? '
And Nat take his head in both hand a if it ache with the confusion of hope and fear , passion and plan that prove boyhood be past and manhood have begin .
` Very tough , but it be that very struggle with obstacle which do u good .
Things have be make easy for you in many way , but no one can do everything .
You must paddle your own canoe now , and learn to avoid the rapid and steer straight to the port you want to reach .
I do n't know just what your temptation will be for you have no bad habit and seem to love music so well , nothing can lure you from it .
I only hope you wo n't work too hard . ' '
I feel a if I could work like a horse , I 'm so eager to get on ; but I 'll take care .
Ca n't waste time be sick , and you 've give me dose enough to keep me all right , I guess . '
Nat laugh a he remember the book of direction Mrs Jo have write for him to consult on all occasion .
She immediately add some verbal one on the subject of foreign mess , and have mount one of her pet hobby , be in full gallop when Emil be see stroll about on the roof of the old house , that be his favourite promenade ; for there he could fancy himself walk the deck , with only blue sky and fresh air about him . '
I want a word with the Commodore , and up there we shall be nice and quiet .
Go and play to Daisy : it will put her to sleep and do you both good .
Sit in the porch , so I can keep an eye on you a I promise ' ; and with a motherly pat on the shoulder Mrs Jo leave Nat to his delightful task and briskly ascend to the house-top , not up the trellis a of old but by mean of the stair inside .
Emerging on the platform she find Emil cut his initial afresh in the wood-work and singing ` Pull for the Shore ' , like the tuneful mariner he be .
` Come aboard and make yourself at home , Aunty , ' he say , with a playful salute .
` I 'm just leave a P.P.C . in the old place , so when you fly up here for refuge you 'll remember me . '
` Ah , my dear , I 'm not likely to forget you .
It do n't need E. B. H. cut on all the tree and railing to remind me of my sailor boy ' ; and Mrs Jo take the seat near the blue figure astride the balustrade , not quite sure how to begin the little sermon she want to preach .
` Well , you do n't pipe your eye and look squally when I sheer off a you use to , and that 's a comfort .
I like to leave port in fair weather and have a jolly send-off all round .
Specially this time , for it will be a year or more before we drop anchor here again , ' answer Emil , push his cap back , and glance about him a if he love old Plum and would be sorry never to see it any more .
` You have salt water enough without my add to it .
I 'm go to be quite a Spartan mother , and send my son to battle with no wailing , only the command : `` With your shield or on it '' , ' say Mrs Jo cheerfully , add after a pause : ' I often wish I could go too , and some day I will , when you be captain and have a ship of your own -- a I 've no doubt you will before long , with Uncle Herman to push you on . '
` When I do I 'll christen her the Jolly Jo and take you a first mate .
It would be regular lark to have you aboard , and I 'd be a proud man to carry you round the world you 've want to see so long and never could , ' answer Emil , catch at once by this splendid vision .
` I 'll make my first voyage with you and enjoy myself immensely in spite of seasickness and all the stormy wind that blow .
I 've always think I 'd like to see a wreck , a nice safe one with all save after great danger and heroic deed , while we cling like Mr Pillicoddy to main-top jib and lee scupper . '
` No wrecks yet , ma'am , but we 'll try to accommodate customer .
Captain say I 'm a lucky dog and bring fair weather , so we 'll save the dirty weather for you if you want it , ' laugh Emil , dig at the ship in full sail which he be add to his design .
` Thanks , I hope you will .
This long voyage will give you new experience , and be an officer , you will have new duty and responsibility .
Are you ready for them ?
You take everything so gaily , I 've be wonder if you realize that now you will have not only to obey but to command also , and power be a dangerous thing .
Be careful that you do n't abuse it or let it make a tyrant of you . '
` Right you be , ma'am .
I 've see plenty of that , and have get my bearing pretty well , I guess .
I sha n't have very wide swing with Peters over me , but I 'll see that the boy do n't get abused when he 's bowse up his jib .
No right to speak before , but now I wo n't stand it . '
` That sound mysteriously awful ; could I ask what nautical torture `` bowsing jib '' be ? '
ask Mrs Jo , in a tone of deep interest .
` Getting drunk .
Peters can hold more grog than any man I ever saw ; he keep right side up , but be as savage a a norther , and make thing lively all round .
I 've see him knock a fellow down with a belaying pin , and could n't lend a hand .
Better luck now , I hope . '
And Emil frown a if he already tread the quarter-deck , lord of all he survey .
` Do n't get into trouble , for even Uncle Herman 's favour wo n't cover insubordination , you know .
You have prove yourself a good sailor ; now be a good officer , which be a hard thing , I fancy .
It take a fine character to rule justly and kindly ; you will have to put by your boyish way and remember your dignity .
That will be excellent training for you , Emil , and sober you down a bit .
No more skylarking except here , so mind your way , and do honour to your button , ' say Mrs Jo , tap one of the very bright brass one that ornament the new suit Emil be so proud of .
` I 'll do my best .
I know my time for skirmshander -LRB- chaff -RRB- be over , and I must steer a straight course ; but do n't you fear , Jack ashore be a very different craft from what he be with blue water under his keel .
I have a long talk with Uncle last night and get my order ; I wo n't forget 'em nor all I owe him .
As for you , I 'll name my first ship a I say , and have your bust for the figurehead , see if I do n't , ' and Emil give his aunt a hearty kiss to seal the vow , which proceed much amuse Nat , play softly in the porch of the Dovecote .
` You do me proud , Captain .
But , dear , I want to say one thing and then I 'm do ; for you do n't need much advice of mine after my good man have speak .
I read somewhere that every inch of rope use in the British Navy have a strand of red in it , so that wherever a bit of it be find it be know .
That be the text of my little sermon to you .
Virtue , which mean honour , honesty , courage , and all that make character , be the red thread that mark a good man wherever he be .
Keep that always and everywhere , so that even if wreck by misfortune , that sign shall still be find and recognize .
Yours be a rough life , and your mate not all we could wish , but you can be a gentleman in the true sense of the word ; and no matter what happen to your body , keep your soul clean , your heart true to those who love you , and do your duty to the end . '
As she speak Emil have rise and stand listen with his cap off and a grave , bright look a if take order from a superior officer ; when she end , he answer briefly , but heartily : ` Please God , I will ! '
` That 's all ; I have little fear for you , but one never know when or how the weak moment may come , and sometimes a chance word help u , a so many my dear mother speak come back to me now for my own comfort and the guidance of my boy , ' say Mrs Jo , rise ; for the word have be say and no more be need .
` I 've store 'em up and know where to find 'em when want .
Often and often in my watch I 've see old Plum , and heard you and Uncle talk so plainly , I 'd have swear I be here .
It be a rough life , Aunty , but a wholesome one if a fellow love it a I do , and have an anchor to windward a I have .
Do n't worry about me , and I 'll come home next year with a chest of tea that will cheer your heart and give you idea enough for a dozen novel .
Going below ?
All right , steady in the gangway !
I 'll be along by the time you 've get out the cake-box .
Last chance for a good old lunch ashore . '
Mrs Jo descend laughing , and Emil finish his ship whistle cheerfully , neither dream when and where this little chat on the house-top would return to the memory of one of them .
Dan be hard to catch , and not until even do a quiet moment come in that busy family ; when , while the rest be roam about , Mrs Jo sit down to read in the study , and presently Dan look in at the window .
` Come and rest after your long tramp ; you must be tire , ' she call , with an invite nod towards the big sofa where so many boy have repose -- as much a that active animal ever do .
` Afraid I shall disturb you ' ; but Dan look a if he want to stay his restless foot somewhere .
` Not a bit ; I 'm always ready to talk , should n't be a woman if I be not , ' laugh Mrs Jo , a Dan swing himself in and sit down with an air of contentment very pleasant to see .
` Last day be over , yet somehow I do n't seem to hanker to be off .
Generally , I 'm rather anxious to cut loose after a short stop .
Odd , ai n't it ? '
ask Dan , gravely pick grass and leave out of his hair and beard ; for he have be lie on the grass , think many thought in the quiet summer night .
` Not at all ; you be begin to get civilize .
It 's a good sign , and I 'm glad to see it , ' answer Mrs Jo promptly .
` You 've have your swing , and want a change .
Hope the farming will give it to you , though help the Indians please me more : it be so much good to work for others than for one 's self alone . '
` So 't be , ' assented Dan heartily . '
I seem to want to root somewhere and have folk of my own to take care of .
Tired of my own company , I suppose , now I 've see so much good .
I 'm a rough , ignorant lot , and I 've be think maybe I 've miss it loaf round creation , instead of go in for education a the other chap do .
Hey ? '
He look anxiously at Mrs Jo ; and she try to hide the surprise this new outburst cause her ; for till now Dan have scorn book and glory in his freedom .
` No ; I do n't think so in your case .
So far I 'm sure the free life be best .
Now that you be a man you can control that lawless nature well ; but a a boy only great activity and much adventure could keep you out of mischief .
Time be tame my colt , you see , and I shall yet be proud of him , whether he make a pack-horse of himself to carry help to the starving or go to plough a Pegasus do . '
Dan like the comparison , and smile a he lounge in the sofa-corner , with the new thoughtfulness in his eye .
` Glad you think so .
The fact be it 's go to take a heap of tame to make me go well in harness anywhere .
I want to , and I try now and then , but always kick over the trace and run away .
No live lose yet ; but I should n't wonder if there be some time , and a general smash-up . '
` Why , Dan , do you have any dangerous adventure during this last absence ?
I fancy so , but do n't ask before , know you 'd tell me if I could help in any way .
Can I ? '
And Mrs Jo look anxiously at him ; for a sudden lowering expression have come into his face , and he lean forward a if to hide it .
` Nothing very bad ; but ` Frisco be n't just a heaven on earth , you know , and it 's hard to be a saint there than here , ' he answer slowly ; then , a if he have make up his mind to '' fes ' , a the child use to say , he sit up , and add rapidly , in a half-defiant , half-shamefaced way , ' I try gamble , and it be n't good for me . '
` Was that how you make your money ? '
` Not a penny of it !
That 's all honest , if speculation be n't a big sort of gambling .
I win a lot ; but I lose or give it away , and cut the whole concern before it get the good of me . '
` Thank heaven for that !
Do n't try it again ; it may have the terrible fascination for you it have for so many .
Keep to your mountain and prairie , and shun city , if these thing tempt you , Dan .
Better lose your life than your soul , and one such passion lead to worse sin , a you know good than I. ' Dan nod , and see how troubled she be , say , in a light tone , though still the shadow of that past experience remain : ` Do n't be scar ; I 'm all right now ; and a burnt dog dread the fire .
I do n't drink , or do the thing you dread ; do n't care for 'em ; but I get excite , and then this devilish temper of mine be more than I can manage .
Fighting a moose or a buffalo be all right ; but when you pitch into a man , no matter how great a scamp he be , you 've get to look out .
I shall kill someone some day ; that 's all I 'm afraid of .
I do hate a sneak ! '
And Dan bring his fist down on the table with a blow that make the lamp totter and the book skip .
` That always be your trial , Dan , and I can sympathize with you ; for I 've be try to govern my own temper all my life , and have n't learn yet , ' say Mrs Jo , with a sigh .
` For heaven 's sake , guard your demon well , and do n't let a moment 's fury ruin all your life .
As I say to Nat , watch and pray , my dear boy .
There be no other help or hope for human weakness but God 's love and patience . '
Tears be in Mrs Jo 's eye a she speak ; for she felt this deeply , and know how hard a task it be to rule these bosom sin of ours .
Dan look touch , also uncomfortable , a he always do when religion of any sort be mention , though he have a simple creed of his own , and try to live up to it in his blind way . '
I do n't do much praying ; do n't seem to come handy to me ; but I can watch like a redskin , only it 's easy to mount guard over a lurk grizzly than my own cursed temper .
It 's that I 'm afraid of , if I settle down .
I can get on with wild beast first-rate ; but men rile me awfully , and I ca n't take it out in a free fight , a I can with a bear or a wolf .
Guess I 'd well head for the Rockies , and stay there a spell longer -- till I 'm tame enough for decent folk , if I ever be . '
And Dan lean his rough head on his hand in a despondent attitude .
` Try my sort of help , and do n't give up .
Read more , study a little , and try to meet a good class of people , who wo n't `` rile '' , but soothe and strengthen you .
We do n't make you savage , I 'm sure ; for you have be as meek a a lamb , and make u very happy . '
` Glad of it ; but I 've felt like a hawk in a hen-house all the same , and want to pounce and tear more than once .
Not so much a I use , though , ' add Dan , after a short laugh at Mrs Jo 's surprised face .
` I 'll try your plan , and keep good company this bout if I can ; but a man ca n't pick and choose , knock about a I do . '
` Yes , you can this time ; for you be go on a peaceful errand and can keep clear of temptation if you try .
Take some book and read ; that 's an immense help ; and book be always good company if you have the right sort .
Let me pick out some for you . '
And Mrs Jo make a bee-line to the well-laden shelf , which be the joy of her heart and the comfort of her life .
` Give me travel and story , please ; do n't want any pious work , ca n't seem to relish 'em , and wo n't pretend I do , ' say Dan , follow to look over her head with small favour at the long line of well-worn volume .
Mrs Jo turn short round , and put a hand on either broad shoulder , look him in the eye , say soberly : ` Now , Dan , see here ; never sneer at good thing or pretend to be bad than you be .
Do n't let false shame make you neglect the religion without which no man can live .
You need n't talk about it if you do n't like , but do n't shut your heart to it in whatever shape it come .
Nature be your God now ; she have do much for you ; let her do more , and lead you to know and love a wiser and more tender teacher , friend , and comforter than she can ever be .
That be your only hope ; do n't throw it away , and waste time ; for sooner or later you will feel the need of Him , and He will come to you and hold you up when all other help fails . '
Dan stand motionless , and let her read in his softened eye the dumb desire that live in his heart , though he have no word to tell it , and only permit her to catch a glimpse of the divine spark which smoulder or burn clearly in every human soul .
He do not speak ; and glad to be spar some answer which should belie his real feeling , Mrs Jo hasten to say , with her most motherly smile : ' I saw in your room the little Bible I give you long ago ; it be well worn outside , but fresh within , a if not much read .
Will you promise me to read a little once a week , dear , for my sake ?
Sunday be a quiet day everywhere , and this book be never old nor out of place .
Begin with the story you use to love when I tell them to you boy .
David be your favourite , you remember ?
Read him again ; he 'll suit you even well now , and you 'll find his sin and repentance useful reading till you come to the life and work of a diviner example than he .
You will do it , for love of mother Bhaer , who always love her `` firebrand '' and hop to save him ? ' '
I will , ' answered Dan , with a sudden brightening of face that be like a sunburst through a cloud , full of promise though so short-lived and rare .
Mrs Jo turn at once to the book and begin to talk of them , know well that Dan would not hear any more just then .
He seem relieve ; for it be always hard for him to show his inner self , and he take pride in hide it a an Indian do in conceal pain or fear .
` Hallo , here 's old Sintram !
I remember him ; use to like him and his tantrum , and read about 'em to Ted .
There he be rid ahead with Death and the Devil alongside . '
As Dan look at the little picture of the young man with horse and hound go bravely up the rocky defile , accompany by the companion who ride beside most men through this world , a curious impulse make Mrs Jo say quickly : ` That 's you , Dan , just you at this time !
Danger and sin be near you in the life you lead ; mood and passion torment you ; the bad father leave you to fight alone , and the wild spirit drive you to wander up and down the world look for peace and self-control .
Even the horse and hound be there , your Octoo and Don , faithful friend , unscared by the strange mate that go with you .
You have not get the armour yet , but I 'm try to show you where to find it .
Remember the mother Sintram love and long to find , and do find when his battle be bravely fought , his reward well earn ?
You can recollect your mother ; and I have always felt that all the good quality you possess come from her .
Act out the beautiful old story in this a in the other part , and try to give her back a son to be proud of . '
Quite carry away by the likeness of the quaint tale to Dan 's life and need , Mrs Jo go on point to the various picture which illustrate it , and when she look up be surprise to see how struck and interested he seem to be .
Like all people of his temperament he be very impressionable , and his life among hunter and Indians have make him superstitious ; he believe in dream , like weird tale , and whatever appeal to the eye or mind , vividly impress him more than the wise word .
The story of poor , tormented Sintram come back clearly a he look and listen , symbolize his secret trial even more truly than Mrs Jo know ; and just at that moment this have an effect upon him that never be forget .
But all he say be : ` Small chance of that .
I do n't take much stock in the idea of meet folk in heaven .
Guess mother wo n't remember the poor little brat she leave so long ago ; why should she ? '
` Because true mother never forget their child ; and I know she be one , from the fact that she run away from the cruel husband , to save her little son from bad influence .
Had she live , life would have be happy for you , with this tender friend to help and comfort you .
Never forget that she risk everything for your sake , and do n't let it be in vain . '
Mrs Jo speak very earnestly , know that this be the one sweet memory of Dan 's early life , and glad to have recall it at this moment ; for suddenly a great tear splash down on the page where Sintram kneel at his mother 's foot , wound , but victorious over sin and death .
She look up , well pleased to have touch Dan to the heart 's core , a that drop prove ; but a sweep of the arm brush away the tell-tale , and his beard hide the mate to it , a he shut the book , say with a suppressed quiver in his strong voice : ` I 'll keep this , if nobody want it .
I 'll read it over , and maybe it will do me good .
I 'd like to meet her anywhere , but do n't believe I ever shall . '
` Keep it and welcome .
My mother give it to me ; and when you read it try to believe that neither of your mother will ever forget you . '
Mrs Jo give the book with a caress ; and simply say : ` Thanks ; good night , ' Dan thrust it into his pocket , and walk straight away to the river to recover from this unwonted mood of tenderness and confidence .
Next day the traveller be off .
All be in good spirit , and a cloud of handkerchief whiten the air a they drive away in the old bus , wave their hat to everyone and kiss their hand , especially to mother Bhaer , who say in her prophetic tone a she wipe her eye , when the familiar rumble die away : ' I have a feeling that something be go to happen to some of them , and they will never come back to me , or come back change .
Well , I can only say , God be with my boy ! '
And He be .
Chapter 7 .
THE LION AND THE LAMB When the boy be go a lull fell upon Plumfield , and the family scatter to various place for brief outing , a August have come and all felt the need of change .
The Professor take Mrs Jo to the mountain .
The Laurences be at the seashore , and there Meg 's family and the Bhaer boy take turn to visit , a someone must always be at home to keep thing in order .
Mrs Meg , with Daisy , be in office when the event occur which we be about to relate .
Rob and Ted be just up from Rocky Nook , and Nan be pass a week with her friend a the only relaxation she allow herself .
Demi be off on a run with Tom , so Rob be man of the house , with old Silas a general overseer .
The sea air seem to have go to Ted 's head , for he be unusually freakish , and lead his gentle aunt and poor Rob a life of it with his prank .
Octoo be wear out with the wild ride he take , and Don openly rebel when order to leap and show off his accomplishment ; while the girl at college be both amuse and worry by the ghost who haunt the ground at night , the unearthly melody that disturb their studious hour , and the hairbreadth escape of this restless boy by flood and field and fire .
Something happen at length which effectually sober Ted and make a lasting impression on both the boy ; for sudden danger and a haunting fear turn the Lion into a lamb and the Lamb into a lion , as far a courage go .
On the first of September -- the boy never forget the date -- after a pleasant tramp and good luck with their fishing , the brother be lounge in the barn ; for Daisy have company , and the lad keep out of the way . '
I tell you what it be , Bobby , that dog be sick .
He wo n't play , nor eat , nor drink , and act queerly .
Dan will kill u if anything happen to him , ' say Ted , look at Don , who lay near his kennel rest a moment after one of the restless wandering which keep him vibrate between the door of Dan 's room and the shady corner of the yard , where his master have settle him with an old cap to guard till he come back .
` It 's the hot weather , perhaps .
But I sometimes think he 's pin for Dan .
Dogs do , you know , and the poor fellow have be low in his mind ever since the boy go .
Maybe something have happen to Dan .
Don howl last night and ca n't rest .
I 've hear of such thing , ' answer Rob thoughtfully .
` Pooh !
he ca n't know .
He 's cross .
I 'll stir him up and take him for a run .
Always make me feel well .
Hi , boy !
wake up and be jolly ' ; and Ted snap his finger at the dog , who only look at him with grim indifference .
` Better let him alone .
If he be n't right tomorrow , we 'll take him to Dr Watkins and see what he say . '
And Rob go on watch the swallow a he lay in the hay polish up some Latin verse he have make .
The spirit of perversity enter into Ted , and merely because he be tell not to tease Don he go on do it , pretend that it be for the dog 's good .
Don take no heed of his pat , command , reproach , or insult , till Ted 's patience give out ; and see a convenient switch near by he could not resist the temptation to conquer the great hound by force , since gentleness fail to win obedience .
He have the wisdom to chain Don up first ; for a blow from any hand but his master 's make him savage , and Ted have more than once try the experiment , a the dog remember .
This indignity rouse Don and he sit up with a growl .
Rob hear it , and see Ted raise the switch , run to interfere , exclaim : ` Do n't touch him !
Dan forbid it !
Leave the poor thing in peace ; I wo n't allow it . '
Rob seldom command , but when he do Master Ted have to give in .
His temper be up , and Rob 's masterful tone make it impossible to resist one cut at the rebellious dog before he submit .
Only a single blow , but it be a costly one ; for a it fell , the dog sprang at Ted with a snarl , and Rob , rush between the two , felt the sharp teeth pierce his leg .
A word make Don let go and drop remorsefully at Rob 's foot , for he love him and be evidently sorry to have hurt his friend by mistake .
With a forgive pat Rob leave him , to limp to the barn follow by Ted , whose wrath be change to shame and sorrow when he saw the red drop on Rob 's sock and the little wound in his leg .
` I 'm awfully sorry .
Why do you get in the way ?
Here , wash it up , and I 'll get a rag to tie on it , ' he say quickly fill a sponge with water and pull out a very demoralized handkerchief .
Rob usually make light of his own mishap and be over ready to forgive if others be to blame ; but now he sit quite still , look at the purple mark with such a strange expression on his white face that Ted be trouble , though he add with a laugh : ` Why , you 're not afraid of a little dig like that , be you , Bobby ? ' '
I be afraid of hydrophobia .
But if Don be mad I 'd rather be the one to have it , ' answer Rob , with a smile and a shiver .
At that dreadful word Ted turn white than his brother , and , drop sponge and handkerchief , star at him with a frightened face , whisper in a tone of despair : ` Oh , Rob , do n't say it !
What shall we do , what shall we do ? '
` Call Nan ; she will know .
Do n't scare Aunty , or tell a soul but Nan ; she 's on the back piazza ; get her out here as quick a you can .
I 'll wash it till she come .
Maybe it 's nothing ; do n't look so staggered , Ted .
I only think it might be , a Don be queer . '
Rob try to speak bravely ; but Ted 's long leg felt strangely weak a he hurry away , and it be lucky he meet no one , for his face would have betray him .
Nan be swing luxuriously in a hammock , amuse herself with a lively treatise on croup , when an agitate boy suddenly clutch her , whisper , a he nearly pull her overboard : ` Come to Rob in the barn !
Don 's mad and he 's bitten him , and we do n't know what to do ; it 's all my fault ; no one must know .
Oh , do be quick ! '
Nan be on her foot at once , startle , but with her wit about her , and both be off without more word a they dodge round the house where unconscious Daisy chat with her friend in the parlour and Aunt Meg peacefully take her afternoon nap upstairs .
Rob be brace up , and be a calm and steady a ever when they find him in the harness-room , whither he have wisely retire , to escape observation .
The story be soon told , and after a look at Don , now in his kennel , sad and surly , Nan say slowly , with her eye on the full water-pan : ` Rob , there be one thing to do for the sake of safety , and it must be do at once .
We ca n't wait to see if Don be -- sick -- or to go for a doctor .
I can do it , and I will ; but it be very painful , and I hate to hurt you , dear . '
A most unprofessional quiver get into Nan 's voice a she speak , and her keen eye dim a she look at the two anxious young face turn so confidingly to her for help . '
I know , burn it ; well , do it , please ; I can bear it .
But Ted well go away , ' say Rob , with a firm setting of his lip , and a nod at his afflicted brother . '
I wo n't stir ; I can stand it if he can , only it ought to be me ! '
cry Ted , with a desperate effort not to cry , so full of grief and fear and shame be he that it seem a if he could n't bear it like a man .
` He 'd better stay and help ; do him good , ' answer Nan sternly , because , her heart be faint within her , know a she do all that might be in store for both poor boy .
` Keep quiet ; I 'll be back in a minute , ' she add , go towards the house , while her quick mind hastily plan what be best to be do .
It be iron day , and a hot fire still burn in the empty kitchen , for the maid be upstairs resting .
Nan put a slender poker to heat , and a she sit wait for it , cover her face with her hand , ask help in this sudden need for strength , courage , and wisdom ; for there be no one else to call upon , and young a she be , she know what be to be do if she only have the nerve to do it .
Any other patient would have be calmly interesting , but dear , good Robin , his father 's pride , his mother 's comfort , everyone 's favourite and friend , that he should be in danger be very terrible ; and a few hot tear drop on the well-scoured table a Nan try to calm her trouble by remember how very likely it be to be all a mistake , a natural but vain alarm . '
I must make light of it , or the boy will break down , and then there will be a panic .
Why afflict and frighten everyone when all be in doubt ?
I wo n't .
I 'll take Rob to Dr Morrison at once , and have the dog man see Don .
Then , have do all we can , we will either laugh at our scare -- if it be one -- or be ready for whatever come .
Now for my poor boy . '
Armed with the red-hot poker , a pitcher of ice-water , and several handkerchief from the clotheshorse , Nan go back to the barn ready to do her best in this her most serious 'em ergency case ' .
The boys sat like statue , one of despair , the other of resignation ; and it take all Nan 's boast nerve to do her work quickly and well .
` Now , Rob , only a minute , then we be safe .
Stand by , Ted ; he may be a bit faintish . '
Rob shut his eye , clinch his hand , and sit like a hero .
Ted kneel beside him , white a a sheet , and as weak a a girl ; for the pang of remorse be rend him , and his heart fail at the thought of all this pain because of his wilfulness .
It be all over in a moment , with only one little groan ; but when Nan look to her assistant to hand the water , poor Ted need it the most , for he have faint away , and lay on the floor in a pathetic heap of arm and leg .
Rob laugh , and , cheer by that unexpected sound , Nan bind up the wound with hand that never tremble , though great drop stand on her forehead ; and she share the water with patient number one before she turn to patient number two .
Ted be much ashamed , and quite break in spirit , when he find how he have fail at the critical moment , and beg them not to tell , a he really could not help it ; then by way of finish his utter humiliation , a burst of hysterical tear disgrace his manly soul , and do him a world of good .
` Never mind , never mind , we be all right now , and no one need be the wiser , ' say Nan briskly , a poor Ted hiccough on Rob 's shoulder , laugh and cry in the most tempestuous manner , while his brother soothe him , and the young doctor fan both with Silas 's old straw hat .
` Now , boy , listen to me and remember what I say .
We wo n't alarm anyone yet , for I 've make up my mind our scare be all nonsense .
Don be out lap the water a I come by , and I do n't believe he 's mad any more than I be .
Still , to ease our mind and compose our spirit , and get our guilty face out of sight for a while , I think we have well drive into town to my old friend Dr Morrison , and let him just take a look at my work , and give u some quiet little dose ; for we be all rather shake by this flurry .
Sit still , Rob ; and Ted , you harness up while I run and get my hat and tell Aunty to excuse me to Daisy .
I do n't know those Penniman girl , and she will be glad of our room at tea , and we 'll have a cosy bite at my house , and come home as gay a lark . '
Nan talk on a a vent for the hidden emotion which professional pride would not allow her to show , and the boy approve her plan at once ; for action be always easy than quiet waiting .
Ted go stagger away to wash his face at the pump , and rub some colour into his cheek before he harness the horse .
Rob lay tranquilly on the hay , look up at the swallow again a he live through some very memorable moment .
Boy a he be , the thought of death come suddenly to him , and in this way , might well make him sober ; for it be a very solemn thing to be arrest in the midst of busy life by the possibility of the great change .
There be no sin to be repent of , few fault , and many happy , dutiful year to remember with infinite comfort .
So Rob have no fear to daunt him , no regret to sadden , and best of all , a very strong and simple piety to sustain and cheer him .
` Mein Vater , ' be his first thought ; for Rob be very near the Professor 's heart , and the loss of his eldest would have be a bitter blow .
These word , whisper with a tremble of the lip that have be so firm when the hot iron burn , recall that other Father who be always near , always tender and helpful ; and , fold his hand , Rob say the hearty little prayer he ever pray , there on the hay , to the soft twitter of the brooding bird .
It do him good ; and wisely lay all his fear and doubt and trouble in God 's hand , the boy felt ready for whatever be to come , and from that hour keep steadily before him the one duty that be plain -- to be brave and cheerful , keep silent , and hope for the best .
Nan steal her hat , and leave a note on Daisy 's pincushion , say she have take the boy to drive , and all would be out of the way till after tea .
Then she hurry back and find her patient much good , the one for work , the other for rest .
In they get , and , put Rob on the back seat with his leg up drive away , look a gay and care-free a if nothing have happen .
Dr Morrison make light of the affair , but tell Nan she have do right ; and a the much-relieved lad go downstairs , he add in a whisper : ` Send the dog off for a while , and keep your eye on the boy .
Do n't let him know it , and report to me if anything seem wrong .
One never know in these case .
No harm to be careful . '
Nan nod , and feel much relieve now that the responsibility be off her shoulder , take the lad to Dr Watkins , who promise to come out later and examine Don .
A merry tea at Nan 's house , which be keep open for her all summer , do them good , and by the time they get home in the cool of the evening no sign of the panic remain but Ted 's heavy eye , and a slight limp when Rob walk .
As the guest be still chatter on the front piazza they retire to the back , and Ted soothe his remorseful soul by swing Rob in the hammock , while Nan tell story till the dog man arrive .
He say Don be a little under the weather , but no more mad than the grey kitten that purr round his leg while the examination go on .
` He want his master , and feel the heat .
Fed too well , perhaps .
I 'll keep him a few week and send him home all right , ' say Dr Watkins , a Don lay his great head in his hand , and keep his intelligent eye on his face , evidently feel that this man understand his trial , and know what to do for him .
So Don depart without a murmur , and our three conspirator take counsel together how to spare the family all anxiety , and give Rob the rest his leg demand .
Fortunately , he always spend many hour in his little study , so he could lie on the sofa with a book in his hand as long a he like , without excite any remark .
Being of a quiet temperament , he do not worry himself or Nan with useless fear , but believe what be tell him , and dismiss all dark possibility , go cheerfully on his way , soon recover from the shock of what he call ` our scare ' .
But excitable Ted be hard to manage , and it take all Nan 's wit and wisdom to keep him from betray the secret ; for it be best to say nothing and spare all discussion of the subject for Rob 's sake .
Ted 's remorse prey upon him , and have no ` Mum ' to confide in , he be very miserable .
By day he devote himself to Rob , wait on him , talk to him , gaze anxiously at him , and worry the good fellow very much ; though he would n't own it , since Ted find comfort in it .
But at night , when all be quiet , Ted 's lively imagination and heavy heart get the good of him , and keep him awake , or set him walk in his sleep .
Nan have her eye on him , and more than once administer a little dose to give him a rest , read to him , scold him , and when she catch him haunt the house in the watch of the night , threaten to lock him up if he do not stay in his bed .
This wear off after a while ; but a change come over the freakish boy , and everyone observe it , even before his mother return to ask what they have do to quench the Lion 's spirit .
He be gay , but not so heedless ; and often when the old wilfulness beset him , he would check it sharply , look at Rob , and give up , or stalk away to have his sulk out alone .
He no longer make fun of his brother 's old-fashioned way and bookish taste , but treat him with a new and very marked respect , which touch and pleased modest Rob , and much amaze all observer .
It seem a if he felt that he owe him reparation for the foolish act that might have cost him his life ; and love be strong than will , Ted forget his pride , and pay his debt like an honest boy . '
I do n't understand it , ' say Mrs Jo , after a week of home life , much impress by the good behaviour of her young son .
` Ted be such a saint , I 'm afraid we be go to lose him .
Is it Meg 's sweet influence , or Daisy 's fine cooking , or the pellet I catch Nan give him on the sly ?
Some witchcraft have be at work during my absence , and this will-o ' - the-wisp be so amiable , quiet , and obedient , I do n't know him . '
` He be grow up , heart 's - dearest , and be a precocious plant , he begin to bloom early .
I also see a change in my Robchen .
He be more manly and serious than ever , and be seldom far from me , a if his love for the old papa be grow with his growth .
Our boy will often surprise u in this way , Jo , and we can only rejoice over them and leave them to become what Gott please . '
As the Professor speak , his eye rest proudly on the brother , who come walk up the step together , Ted 's arm over Rob 's shoulder a he listen attentively to some geological remark Rob be make on a stone he hold .
Usually , Ted make fun of such taste , and love to lay boulder in the student 's path , put brickbats under his pillow , gravel in his shoe , or send parcel of dirt by express to ` Prof. R. M. Bhaer ' .
Lately , he have treat Rob 's hobby respectfully , and have begin to appreciate the good quality of this quiet brother whom he have always love but rather undervalued , till his courage under fire win Ted 's admiration , and make it impossible to forget a fault , the consequence of which might have be so terrible .
The leg be still lame , though do well , and Ted be always offer an arm a support , gaze anxiously at his brother , and try to guess his want ; for regret be still keen in Ted 's soul , and Rob 's forgiveness only make it deep .
A fortunate slip on the stair give Rob an excuse for limping , and no one but Nan and Ted saw the wound ; so the secret be safe up to this time .
` We be talk about you , my lad .
Come in and tell u what good fairy have be at work while we be go .
Or be it because absence sharpen our eye , that we find such pleasant change when we come back ? '
say Mrs Jo , pat the sofa on either side , while the Professor forget his pile of letter to admire the please prospect of his wife in a bower of arm , a the boy sit down beside her , smile affectionately , but feel a little guilty ; for till now ` Mum ' and ` Vater ' know every event in their boyish life .
` Oh , it 's only because Bobby and I have be alone so much ; we be sort of twin .
I stir him up a bit , and he steady me a great deal .
You and father do the same , you know .
Nice plan .
I like it ' ; and Ted felt that he have settle the matter capitally .
` Mother wo n't thank you for compare yourself to her , Ted .
I 'm flatter at be like father in any way .
I try to be , ' answer Rob , a they laugh at Ted 's compliment . '
I do thank him , for it 's true ; and if you , Robin , do half as much for your brother a Papa have for me , your life wo n't be a failure , ' say Mrs Jo heartily .
` I 'm very glad to see you help one another .
It 's the right way , and we ca n't begin too soon to try to understand the need , virtue , and failing of those near u .
Love should not make u blind to fault , nor familiarity make u too ready to blame the shortcoming we see .
So work away , my sonny , and give u more surprise of this sort as often a you like . '
` The liebe Mutter have say all .
I too be well please at the friendly brother-warmth I find .
It be good for everyone ; long may it last ! '
and Professor Bhaer nod at the boy , who look gratified , but rather at a loss how to respond to these flatter remark .
Rob wisely keep silent , fear to say too much ; but Ted burst out , find it impossible to help tell something : ` The fact be I 've be find out what a brave good chap Bobby be , and I 'm try to make up for all the bother I 've be to him .
I know he be awfully wise , but I think him rather soft , because he like book well than lark , and be always fuss about his conscience .
But I begin to see that it be n't the fellow who talk the loudest and show off best that be the manly .
No , sir !
quiet old Bob be a hero and a trump , and I 'm proud of him ; so would you be if you know all about it . '
Here a look from Rob bring Ted up with a round turn ; he stop short , grow red , and clap his hand on his mouth in dismay .
` Well , be we not to `` know all about it '' ? '
ask Mrs Jo quickly ; for her sharp eye saw sign of danger and her maternal heart felt that something have come between her and her son .
` Boys , ' she go on solemnly , ' I suspect that the change we talk about be not altogether the effect of grow up , a we say .
It strike me that Ted have be in mischief and Rob have get him out of some scrape ; hence the lovely mood of my bad boy and the sober one of my conscientious son , who never hide anything from his mother . '
Rob be as red a Ted now , but after a moment 's hesitation he look up and answer with an air of relief : ` Yes , mother , that 's it ; but it 's all over and no harm do , and I think we 'd well let it be , for a while at least .
I do feel guilty to keep anything from you , but now you know so much I shall not worry and you need n't either .
Ted 's sorry , I do n't mind , and it have do u both good . '
Mrs Jo look at Ted , who wink hard but bore the look like a man ; then she turn to Rob , who smile at her so cheerfully that she felt reassured ; but something in his face strike her , and she saw what it be that make him seem old , graver , yet more lovable than ever .
It be the look pain of mind , as well a body , bring , and the patience of a sweet submission to some inevitable trial .
Like a flash she guess that some danger have be near her boy , and the glance she have catch between the two lad and Nan confirm her fear .
` Rob , dear , you have be ill , hurt , or seriously troubled by Ted ?
Tell me at once ; I will not have any secret now .
Boys sometimes suffer all their life from neglected accident or carelessness .
Fritz , make them speak out ! '
Mr Bhaer put down his paper and come to stand before them , say in a tone that quiet Mrs Jo , and give the boys courage : ` My son , give u the truth .
We can bear it ; do not hold it back to spare u .
Ted know we forgive much because we love him , so be frank , all two . '
Ted instantly dive among the sofa pillow and keep there , with only a pair of scarlet ear visible , while Rob in a few word tell the little story , truthfully , but as gently a he could , hasten to add the comfortable assurance that Don be not mad , the wound nearly well , and no danger would ever come of it .
But Mrs Jo grow so pale he have to put his arm about her , and his father turn and walk away , exclaim : ` Ach Himmel ! '
in a tone of such mingled pain , relief , and gratitude , that Ted pull an extra pillow over his head to smother the sound .
They be all right in a minute ; but such news be always a shock , even if the peril be past , and Mrs Jo hug her boy close till his father come and take him away , say with a strong shake of both hand and a quiver in his voice : ` To be in danger of one 's life try a man 's mettle , and you bear it well ; but I can not spare my good boy yet ; thank Gott , we keep him safe ! '
A smothered sound , between a choke and a groan , come from under the pillow , and the writhing of Ted 's long leg so plainly expressed despair that his mother relent towards him , and burrow till she find a tousled yellow head , pull it out and smooth it , exclaim with an irrepressible laugh , though her cheek be wet with tear : ` Come and be forgive , poor sinner !
I know you have suffer enough , and I wo n't say a word ; only if harm have come to Rob you would have make me more miserable than yourself .
Oh , Teddy , Teddy , do try to cure that wilful spirit of yours before it be too late ! '
` Oh , Mum , I do try !
I never can forget this -- I hope it 's cure me ; if it have n't , I be afraid I ai n't worth save , ' answer Ted , pull his own hair a the only way of express his deep remorse .
` Yes , you be , my dear ; I felt just so at fifteen when Amy be nearly drown , and Marmee help me a I 'll help you .
Come to me , Teddy , when the evil one get hold of you , and together we 'll rout him .
Ah , me !
I 've have many a tussle with that old Apollyon , and often get worst , but not always .
Come under my shield , and we 'll fight till we win . '
No one spoke for a minute a Ted and his mother laugh and cry in one handkerchief , and Rob stand with his father 's arm round him so happy that all be tell and forgive , though never to be forget ; for such experience do one good , and knit heart that love more closely together .
Presently Ted rise straight up and go to his father , say bravely and humbly : ' I ought to be punish .
Please do it ; but first say you forgive me , a Rob do . '
` Always that , mein Sohn , seventy time seven , if need be , else I be not worthy the name you give me .
The punishment have come ; I can give no great .
Let it not be in vain .
It will not with the help of the mother and the All Father .
Room here for both , always ! '
The good Professor open his arm and embrace his boy like a true German , not ashamed to express by gesture or by word the fatherly emotion an American would have compress into a slap on the shoulder and a brief ` All right ' .
Mrs Jo sit and enjoy the prospect like a romantic soul a she be , and then they have a quiet talk together , say freely all that be in their heart , and find much comfort in the confidence which come when love cast out fear .
It be agree that nothing be say except to Nan , who be to be thank and reward for her courage , discretion , and fidelity . '
I always know that girl have the making of a fine woman in her , and this prove it .
No panic and shriek and faintings and fuss , but calm sense and energetic skill .
Dear child , what can I give or do to show my gratitude ? '
say Mrs Jo enthusiastically .
` Make Tom clear out and leave her in peace , ' suggest Ted , almost himself again , though a pensive haze still partially obscure his native gaiety .
` Yes , do !
he fret her like a mosquito .
She forbid him to come out here while she stay , and pack him off with Demi .
I like old Tom , but he be a regular noodle about Nan , ' add Rob , a he go away to help his father with the accumulated letter .
` I 'll do it ! '
say Mrs Jo decidedly .
` That girl 's career shall not be hamper by a foolish boy 's fancy .
In a moment of weariness she may give in , and then it 's all over .
Wiser woman have do so and regret it all their life .
Nan shall earn her place first , and prove that she can fill it ; then she may marry if she like , and can find a man worthy of her . '
But Mrs Jo 's help be not need ; for love and gratitude can work miracle , and when youth , beauty , accident , and photography be add , success be sure ; a be prove in the case of the unsuspecting but too susceptible Thomas .
Chapter 8 .
JOSIE PLAYS MERMAID While the young Bhaers be have serious experience at home , Josie be enjoy herself immensely at Rocky Nook ; for the Laurences know how to make summer idleness both charm and wholesome .
Bess be very fond of her little cousin ; Mrs Amy felt that whether her niece be an actress or not she must be a gentlewoman , and give her the social training which mark the well-bred woman everywhere ; while Uncle Laurie be never happy than when row , rid , playing , or lounge with two gay girl beside him .
Josie bloom like a wild flower in this free life , Bess grow rosy , brisk , and merry , and both be great favourite with the neighbour , whose villa be by the shore or perch on the cliff along the pretty bay .
One crumple rose-leaf disturbed Josie 's peace , one baffle wish fill her with a longing which become a mania , and keep her a restless and watchful a a detective with a case to ` work up ' .
Miss Cameron , the great actress , have hire one of the villa and retire thither to rest and ` create ' a new part for next season .
She saw no one but a friend or two , have a private beach , and be invisible except during her daily drive , or when the opera-glasses of curious gazers be fix on a blue figure disport itself in the sea .
The Laurences know her , but respect her privacy , and after a call leave her in peace till she express a wish for society -- a courtesy which she remember and repay later , a we shall see .
But Josie be like a thirsty fly buzz about a sealed honey-pot , for this nearness to her idol be both delightful and maddening .
She pin to see , hear , talk with , and study this great and happy woman who could thrill thousand by her art , and win friend by her virtue , benevolence , and beauty .
This be the sort of actress the girl mean to be , and few could object if the gift be really hers ; for the stage need just such woman to purify and elevate the profession which should teach as well a amuse .
If kindly Miss Cameron have know what passionate love and longing burn in the bosom of the little girl whom she idly observe skip over the rock , splash about the beach , or gallop past her gate on a Shetland pony , she would have make her happy by a look or a word .
But be tired with her winter 's work and busy with her new part , the lady take no more notice of this young neighbour than of the sea-gulls in the bay or the daisy dance in the field .
Nosegays leave on her doorstep , serenade under her garden-wall , and the fixed stare of admire eye be such familiar thing that she scarcely mind them ; and Josie grow desperate when all her little attempt fail . '
I might climb that pine-tree and tumble off on her piazza roof , or get Sheltie to throw me just at her gate and be take in fainting .
It 's no use to try to drown myself when she be bath .
I ca n't sink , and she 'd only send a man to pull me out .
What can I do ?
I will see her and tell her my hope and make her say I can act some day .
Mamma would believe her ; and if -- oh , if she only would let me study with her , what perfect joy that would be ! '
Josie make these remark one afternoon a she and Bess prepare for a swim , a fishing party have prevent their morning bathe .
` You must bide your time , dear , and not be so impatient .
Papa promise to give you a chance before the season be over , and he always manage thing nicely .
That will be good than any queer prank of yours , ' answered Bess , tie her pretty hair in a white net to match her suit , while Josie make a little lobster of herself in scarlet . '
I hate to wait ; but I suppose I must .
Hope she will bathe this afternoon , though it be low tide .
She tell Uncle she should have to go in then because in the morning people star so and go on her beach .
Come and have a good dive from the big rock .
No one round but nurse and baby , so we can romp and splash as much a we like . '
Away they go to have a fine time ; for the little bay be free from other bather , and the baby greatly admire their aquatic gymnastics , both be expert swimmer .
As they sit drip on the big rock Josie suddenly give a clutch that nearly send Bess overboard , a she cry excitedly : ` There she be !
Look !
come to bathe .
How splendid !
Oh , if she only would drown a little and let me save her !
or even get her toe nip by a crab ; anything so I could go and speak ! '
` Do n't seem to look ; she come to be quiet and enjoy herself .
Pretend we do n't see her , that 's only civil , ' answered Bess , affect to be absorb in a white-winged yacht go by .
` Let 's carelessly float that way a if go for seaweed on the rock .
She ca n't mind if we be flat on our back , with only our nose out .
Then when we ca n't help see her , we 'll swim back a if anxious to retire .
That will impress her , and she may call to thank the very polite young lady who respect her wish , ' propose Josie , whose lively fancy be always plan dramatic situation .
Just a they be go to slip from their rock , a if Fate relent at last , Miss Cameron be see to beckon wildly a she stand waist-deep in the water , look down .
She call to her maid , who seem search along the beach for something , and not find what she seek , wave a towel towards the girl a if summon them to help her .
` Run , fly !
she want u , she want u ! '
cry Josie , tumble into the water like a very energetic turtle , and swim away in her best style towards this long desire haven of joy .
Bess follow more slowly , and both come panting and smile up to Miss Cameron , who never lift her eye , but say in that wonderful voice of hers : ` I 've drop a bracelet .
I see it , but ca n't get it .
Will the little boy find me a long stick ?
I 'll keep my eye on it , so the water shall not wash it away . '
` I 'll dive for it with pleasure ; but I 'm not a boy , ' answer Josie , laugh a she shake the curly head which at a distance have deceive the lady . '
I beg your pardon .
Dive away , child ; the sand be cover it fast .
I value it very much .
Never forget to take it off before . '
` I 'll get it ! '
and down go Josie , to come up with a handful of pebble , but no bracelet .
` It 's go ; never mind -- my fault , ' say Miss Cameron , disappointed , but amuse at the girl 's dismay a she shake the water out of her eye and gasp bravely : ` No , it be n't .
I 'll have it , if I stay down all night ! '
and with one long breath Josie dive again , leave nothing but a pair of agitated foot to be see .
` I 'm afraid she will hurt herself , ' say Miss Cameron , look at Bess , whom she recognize by her likeness to her mother .
` Oh , no ; Josie be a little fish .
She like it ' ; and Bess smile happily at this wonderful granting of her cousin 's desire .
` You be Mr Laurence 's daughter , I think ?
How d 'ye do , dear ?
Tell papa I 'm come to see him soon .
Too tired before .
Quite savage .
Better now .
Ah !
here 's our pearl of diver .
What luck ? '
she ask , a the heel go down and a dripping head come up .
Josie could only choke and splutter at first , be half strangle ; but though her hand have fail again , her courage have not ; and with a resolute shake of her wet hair , a bright look at the tall lady , and a series of puff to fill her lung , she say calmly : ' `` Never give up '' be my motto .
I 'm go to get it , if I go to Liverpool for it !
Now , then ! '
and down go the mermaid quite out of sight this time , grope like a real lobster at the bottom of the sea .
` Plucky little girl !
I like that .
Who be she ? '
ask the lady , sit down on a half-covered stone to watch her diver , since the bracelet be lose sight of .
Bess tell her , add , with the persuasive smile of her father : ` Josie longs to be an actress , and have wait for a month to see you .
This be a great happiness for her . '
` Bless the child !
why do n't she come and call ?
I 'd have let her in ; though usually I avoid stage-struck girl a I do reporter , ' laugh Miss Cameron .
There be no time for more ; a brown hand , grasp the bracelet , rise out of the sea , follow by a purple face a Josie come up so blind and dizzy she could only cling to Bess , half drown but triumphant .
Miss Cameron draw her to the rock where she sit , and push the hair out of her eye , revive her with a hearty ` Bravo !
bravo ! '
which assure the girl that her first act be a hit .
Josie have often imagine her meeting with the great actress -- the dignity and grace with which she would enter and tell her ambitious hope , the effective dress she would wear , the witty thing she would say , the deep impression her budding genius would make .
But never in her wild moment have she imagine an interview like this ; scarlet , sandy , streaming , and speechless she lean against the illustrious shoulder , look like a beautiful seal a she blink and wheeze till she could smile joyfully and exclaim proudly : ' I do get it !
I 'm so glad ! '
` Now get your breath , my dear ; then I shall be glad also .
It be very nice of you to take all that trouble for me .
How shall I thank you ? '
ask the lady , look at her with the beautiful eye that could say so many thing without word .
Josie clasp her hand with a wet spat which rather destroy the effect of the gesture , and answer in a beseeching tone that would have soften a far hard heart than Miss Cameron 's : ` Let me come and see you once -- only once !
I want you to tell me if I can act ; you will know .
I 'll abide by what you say ; and if you think I can -- by and by , when I 've study very hard -- I shall be the happy girl in the world .
May I ? '
` Yes ; come tomorrow at eleven .
We 'll have a good talk ; you shall show me what you can do , and I 'll give you my opinion .
But you wo n't like it . ' '
I will , no matter if you tell me I 'm a fool .
I want it settle ; so do mamma .
I 'll take it bravely if you say no ; and if you say yes , I 'll never give up till I 've do my best -- a you do . '
` Ah , my child , it 's a weary road , and there be plenty of thorn among the rose when you 've win them .
I think you have the courage , and this prove that you have perseverance .
Perhaps you 'll do .
Come , and we 'll see . '
Miss Cameron touch the bracelet a she speak , and smile so kindly that impetuous Josie want to kiss her ; but wisely refrain , though her eye be wet with soft water than any in the sea a she thank her .
` We be keep Miss Cameron from her bath , and the tide be go out .
Come , Josie , ' say thoughtful Bess , fear to outstay their welcome .
` Run over the beach and get warm .
Thank you very much , little mermaid .
Tell papa to bring his daughter to see me any time .
Good-bye ' ; and with a wave of her hand the tragedy queen dismiss her court , but remain on her weedy throne watch the two lithe figure race over the sand with twinkle foot till they be out of sight .
Then , a she calmly bob up and down in the water , she say to herself : ` The child have a good stage face , vivid , mobile ; fine eye , abandon , pluck , will .
Perhaps she 'll do .
Good stock -- talent in the family .
We shall see . '
Of course Josie never sleep a wink , and be in a fever of joyful excitement next day .
Uncle Laurie enjoy the episode very much , and Aunt Amy look out her most become white dress for the grand occasion ; Bess lend her most artistic hat , and Josie range the wood and marsh for a bouquet of wild rose , sweet white azalea , fern , and graceful grass , a the offering of a very grateful heart .
At ten she solemnly array herself , and then sit look at her neat glove and buckle shoe till it be time to go , grow pale and sober with the thought that her fate be soon to be decide ; for , like all young people she be sure that her whole life could be settle by one human creature , quite forget how wonderfully Providence train u by disappointment , surprise u with unexpected success , and turn our seeming trial into blessing . '
I will go alone : we shall be freer so .
Oh , Bess , pray that she may tell me rightly !
So much depends on that !
Do n't laugh , uncle !
It be a very serious moment for me .
Miss Cameron know that , and will tell you so .
Kiss me , Aunt Amy , since mamma be n't here .
If you say I look nice , I 'm quite satisfied .
Good-bye . '
And with a wave of the hand as much like her model 's a she could make it , Josie depart , look very pretty and feel very tragical .
Sure now of admittance , she boldly ring at the door which exclude so many , and be usher into a shady parlour , feast her eye upon several fine portrait of great actor while she wait .
She have read about most of them , and know their trial and triumph so well that she soon forget herself , and try to imitate Mrs Siddons a Lady Macbeth , look up at the engraving a she hold her nosegay like the candle in the sleep-walking scene , and knit her youthful brow distressfully while murmur the speech of the haunt queen .
So busy be she that Miss Cameron watch her for several minute unseen , then startle her by suddenly sweep in with the word upon her lip , the look upon her face , which make that one of her great scene . '
I never can do it like that ; but I 'll keep try , if you say I may , ' cry Josie , forget her manner in the intense interest of the moment .
` Show me what you can do , ' answer the actress , wisely plunge into the middle of thing at once , well know that no common chat would satisfy this very earnest little person .
` First let me give you these .
I think you 'd like wild thing good than hot-house flower ; and I love to bring them , a I 'd no other way to thank you for your great kindness to me , ' say Josie , offer her nosegay with a simple warmth that be very sweet . '
I do love them best , and keep my room full of the posy some good fairy hang on my gate .
Upon my word , I think I 've find the fairy out -- these be so like , ' she add quickly , a her eye go from the flower in her hand to others that stand near by , arrange with the same taste .
Josie 's blush and smile betray her before she say , with a look full of girlish adoration and humility : ' I could n't help it ; I admire you so much .
I know it be a liberty ; but a I could n't get in myself , I love to think my posy please you . '
Something about the child and her little offering touch the woman , and , draw Josie to her , she say , with no trace of actress in face or voice : ` They do please me , dear , and so do you .
I 'm tired of praise ; and love be very sweet , when it be simple and sincere like this . '
Josie remember to have hear , among many other story , that Miss Cameron lose her lover year ago , and since have live only for art .
Now she felt that this might have be true ; and pity for the splendid , lonely life make her face very eloquent , as well a grateful .
Then , a if anxious to forget the past , her new friend say , in the commanding way that seem natural to her : ` Let me see what you can do .
Juliet , of course .
All begin with that .
Poor soul , how she be murder ! '
Now , Josie have intend to begin with Romeo 's much-enduring sweetheart , and follow her up with Bianca , Pauline , and several of the favourite idol of stage-struck girl ; but be a shrewd little person , she suddenly saw the wisdom of Uncle Laurie 's advice , and resolve to follow it .
So instead of the rant Miss Cameron expect , Josie give poor Ophelia 's mad scene , and give it very well , have be train by the college professor of elocution and do it many time .
She be too young , of course , but the white gown , the loose hair , the real flower she scatter over the imaginary grave , add to the illusion ; and she sing the song sweetly , drop her pathetic curtsy , and vanish behind the curtain that divide the room with a backward look that surprise her critical auditor into a quick gesture of applause .
Cheered by that welcome sound , Josie run back a a little hoyden in one of the farce she have often act , tell a story full of fun and naughtiness at first , but end with a sob of repentance and an earnest prayer for pardon .
` Very good !
Try again .
Better than I expect , ' call the voice of the oracle .
Josie try Portia 's speech , and recite very well , give due emphasis to each fine sentence .
Then , unable to refrain from what she consider her great effort , she burst into Juliet 's balcony scene , end with the poison and the tomb .
She felt sure that she surpass herself , and wait for applause .
A ringing laugh make her tingle with indignation and disappointment , a she go to stand before Miss Cameron , say in a tone of polite surprise : ' I have be tell that I do it very well .
I 'm sorry you do n't think so . '
` My dear , it 's very bad .
How can it help be so ?
What can a child like you know of love and fear and death ?
Do n't try it yet .
Leave tragedy alone till you be ready for it . '
` But you clap Ophelia . '
` Yes , that be very pretty .
Any clever girl can do it effectively .
But the real meaning of Shakespeare be far above you yet , child .
The comedy bit be best .
There you show real talent .
It be both comic and pathetic .
That 's art .
Do n't lose it .
The Portia be good declamation .
Go on with that sort of thing ; it train the voice -- teach shade of expression .
You 've a good voice and natural grace -- great help both , hard to acquire . '
` Well , I 'm glad I 've get something , ' sigh Josie , sit meekly on a stool , much crestfallen , but not daunt yet , and bound to have her say out .
` My dear little girl , I tell you that you would not like what I should say to you ; yet I must be honest if I would really help you .
I 've have to do it for many like you ; and most of them have never forgive me , though my word have prove true , and they be what I advise them to be -- good wife and happy mother in quiet home .
A few have keep on , and do fairly well .
One you will hear of soon , I think ; for she have talent , indomitable patience , and mind as well a beauty .
You be too young to show to which class you belong .
Geniuses be very rare , and even at fifteen seldom give much promise of future power . '
` Oh , I do n't think I 'm a genius ! '
cry Josie , grow calm and sober a she listen to the melodious voice and look into the expressive face that fill her with confidence , so strong , sincere , and kindly be it . '
I only want to find out if I have talent enough to go on , and after year of study to be able to act well in any of the good play people never tire of seeing .
I do n't expect to be a Mrs Siddons or a Miss Cameron , much a I long to be ; but it do seem a if I have something in me which ca n't come out in any way but this .
When I act I 'm perfectly happy .
I seem to live , to be in my own world , and each new part be a new friend .
I love Shakespeare , and be never tire of his splendid people .
Of course , I do n't understand it all ; but it 's like be alone at night with the mountain and the star , solemn and grand , and I try to imagine how it will look when the sun come up , and all be glorious and clear to me .
I ca n't see , but I feel the beauty , and long to express it . '
As she speak with the most perfect self-forgetfulness Josie be pale with excitement , her eye shone , her lip tremble , and all her little soul seem try to put into word the emotion that fill it to overflow .
Miss Cameron understood , felt that this be something more than a girlish whim ; and when she answer there be a new tone of sympathy in her voice , a new interest in her face , though she wisely refrain from say all she think , well know what splendid dream young people build upon a word , and how bitter be the pain when the bright bubble burst .
` If you feel this , I can give you no good advice than to go on loving and study our great master , ' she say slowly ; but Josie catch the change tone , and felt , with a thrill of joy , that her new friend be speak to her now a to a comrade .
` It be an education in itself , and a lifetime be not long enough to teach you all his secret .
But there be much to do before you can hope to echo his word .
Have you the patience , courage , strength , to begin at the beginning , and slowly , painfully , lay the foundation for future work ?
Fame be a pearl many dive for and only a few bring up .
Even when they do , it be not perfect , and they sigh for more , and lose good thing in struggle for them . '
The last word seem spoken more to herself than to her hearer , but Josie answer quickly , with a smile and an expressive gesture : ' I get the bracelet in spite of all the bitter water in my eye . '
` You do !
I do n't forget it .
A good omen .
We will accept it . '
Miss Cameron answer the smile with one that be like sunshine to the girl , and stretch her white hand a if take some invisible gift .
Then add in a different tone , watch the effect of her word on the expressive face before her : ` Now you will be disappoint , for instead of tell you to come and study with me , or go and act in some second-rate theatre at once , I advise you to go back to school and finish your education .
That be the first step , for all accomplishment be need , and a single talent make a very imperfect character .
Cultivate mind and body , heart and soul , and make yourself an intelligent , graceful , beautiful , and healthy girl .
Then , at eighteen or twenty , go into training and try your power .
Better start for the battle with your arm in order , and save the hard lesson which come when we rush on too soon .
Now and then genius carry all before it , but not often .
We have to climb slowly , with many slip and fall .
Can you wait as well a work ? ' '
I will ! '
` We shall see .
It would be pleasant to me to know that when I quit the stage I leave behind me a well-trained , faithful , gift comrade to more than fill my place , and carry on what I have much at heart -- the purification of the stage .
Perhaps you be she ; but remember , mere beauty and rich costume do not make an actress , nor be the effort of a clever little girl to play great character real art .
It be all dazzle and sham , and a disgrace and disappointment now .
Why will the public be satisfy with opera bouffe , or the trash call society play when a world of truth and beauty , poetry and pathos lie wait to be interpret and enjoy ? '
Miss Cameron have forget to whom she speak , and walk to and fro , full of the noble regret all cultivate people feel at the low state of the stage nowadays .
` That 's what Uncle Laurie say ; and he and Aunt Jo try to plan play about true and lovely thing -- simple domestic scene that touch people 's heart , and make them laugh and cry and feel good .
Uncle say that sort be my style , and I must not think of tragedy .
But it 's so much nicer to sweep about in crown and velvet train than to wear everyday clothes , and just be myself , though it be so easy . '
` Yet that be high art , child , and what we need for a time till we be ready for the master .
Cultivate that talent of yours .
It be a special gift , this power to bring tear and smile , and a sweeter task to touch the heart than to freeze the blood or fire the imagination .
Tell your uncle he be right , and ask your aunt to try a play for you .
I 'll come and see it when you be ready . '
` Will you ?
Oh !
will you ?
We be go to have some at Christmas , with a nice part for me .
A simple little thing , but I can do it , and should be so proud , so happy to have you there . '
Josie rise a she speak , for a glance at the clock show her that her call be a long one ; and hard a it be to end this momentous interview , she felt that she must go .
Catching up her hat she go to Miss Cameron , who stand look at her so keenly that she felt as transparent a a pane of glass , and colour prettily a she look up , say , with a grateful little tremor in her voice : ' I can never thank you for this hour and all you have tell me .
I shall do just what you advise , and mamma will be very glad to see me settle at my book again .
I can study now with all my heart , because it be to help me on ; and I wo n't hope too much , but work and wait , and try to please you , a the only way to pay my debt . '
` That remind me that I have not pay mine .
Little friend , wear this for my sake .
It be fit for a mermaid , and will remind you of your first dive .
May the next bring up a good jewel , and leave no bitter water on your lip ! '
As she speak , Miss Cameron take from the lace at her throat a pretty pin of aquamarine , and fasten it like an order on Josie 's proud bosom ; then lift the happy little face , she kiss it very tenderly , and watch it go smile away with eye that seem to see into a future full of the trial and the triumph which she know so well .
Bess expect to see Josie come fly in , all rapture and excitement , or drown in tear of disappointment , but be surprise at the expression of calm content and resolution which she wear .
Pride and satisfaction , and a new feeling of responsibility both sober and sustain her , and she felt that any amount of dry study and long waiting would be bearable , if in the glorious future she could be an honour to her profession and a comrade to the new friend whom she already adore with girlish ardour .
She tell her little story to a deeply interested audience , and all felt that Miss Cameron 's advice be good .
Mrs Amy be relieve at the prospect of delay ; for she do not want her niece to be an actress and hop the fancy would die out .
Uncle Laurie be full of charm plan and prophecy and write one of his most delightful note to thank their neighbour for her kindness ; while Bess , who love art of all kind , fully sympathize with her cousin 's ambitious hope , only wonder why she prefer to act out her vision rather than embody them in marble .
That first interview be not the last ; for Miss Cameron be really interested , and have several memorable conversation with the Laurences , while the girl sit by , drink in every word with the delight all artist feel in their own beautiful world , and learn to see how sacred good gift be , how powerful , and how faithfully they should be use for high end , each in it own place help to educate , refine , and refresh .
Josie write ream to her mother ; and when the visit end rejoice her heart by bring her a somewhat changed little daughter , who fell to work at the once-detested book with a patient energy which surprise and please everyone .
The right string have be touch , and even French exercise and piano practice become endurable , since accomplishment would be useful by and by ; dress , manner , and habit be all interesting now , because ` mind and body , heart and soul , must be cultivate ' , and while train to become an ` intelligent , graceful , healthy girl ' , little Josie be unconsciously fit herself to play her part well on whatever stage the great Manager might prepare for her .
Chapter 9 .
THE WORM TURNS Two very superior bicycle go twinkle up the road to Plumfield one September afternoon , bear two brown and dusty rider evidently return from a successful run , for though their leg might be a trifle weary , their face beam a they survey the world from their lofty perch with the air of calm content all wheelmen wear after they have learn to ride ; before that happy period anguish of mind and body be the chief expression of the manly countenance .
` Go ahead and report , Tom ; I 'm due here .
See you later , ' say Demi , swing himself down at the door of the Dovecote .
` Do n't peach , there 's a good fellow .
Let me have it out with Mother Bhaer first , ' return Tom , wheel in at the gate with a heavy sigh .
Demi laugh , and his comrade go slowly up the avenue , devoutly hop that the coast be clear ; for he be the bearer of tidings which would , he think , convulse the entire family with astonishment and dismay .
To his great joy Mrs Jo be discover alone in a grove of proof-sheets , which she drop , to greet the return wanderer cordially .
But after the first glance she saw that something be the matter , recent event have make her unusually sharp-eyed and suspicious .
` What be it now , Tom ? '
she ask , a he subside into an easy-chair with a curious expression of mingled fear , shame , amusement , and distress in his brick-red countenance .
` I 'm in an awful scrape , ma'am . '
` Of course ; I 'm always prepare for scrape when you appear .
What be it ?
Run over some old lady who be go to law about it ? '
ask Mrs Jo cheerfully .
` Worse than that , ' groan Tom .
` Not poison some trust soul who ask you to prescribe , I hope ? '
` Worse than that . '
` You have n't let Demi catch any horrid thing and leave him behind , have you ? '
` Worse even than that . ' '
I give it up .
Tell me quick ; I hate to wait for bad news . '
Having get his listener sufficiently excite , Tom launch his thunderbolt in one brief sentence , and fell back to watch the effect .
` I 'm engaged ! '
Mrs Jo 's proof-sheets fly wildly about a she clasp her hand , exclaim in dismay : ` If Nan have yield , I 'll never forgive her ! '
` She have n't ; it 's another girl . '
Tom 's face be so funny a he say the word , that it be impossible to help laughing ; for he look both sheepish and pleased , besides very much perplexed and worry .
` I 'm glad , very glad indeed !
Do n't care who it be ; and I hope you 'll be marry soon .
Now tell me all about it , ' command Mrs Jo , so much relieve that she felt ready for anything .
` What will Nan say ? '
demanded Tom , rather take aback at this view of his predicament .
` She will be rejoice to get rid of the mosquito who have plague her so long .
Do n't worry about Nan .
Who be this `` other girl '' ? '
` Demi have n't write about her ? '
` Only something about your upset a Miss West down at Quitno ; I think that be scrape enough . '
` That be only the beginning of a series of scrape .
Just my luck !
Of course after souse the poor girl I have to be attentive to her , have n't I ?
Everyone seem to think so , and I could n't get away , and so I be lose before I know it .
It 's all Demi 's fault , he would stay there and fuss with his old photo , because the view be good and all the girl want to be take .
Look at these , will you , ma'am ?
That 's the way we spend our time when we be n't play tennis ' ; and Tom pull a handful of picture from his pocket , display several in which he be conspicuous , either hold a sun-umbrella over a very pretty young lady on the rock , repose at her foot in the grass , or perch on a piazza rail with other couple in seaside costume and effective attitude .
` This be she of course ? '
ask Mrs Jo , point to the much-ruffled damsel with the jaunty hat , coquettish shoe , and racquet in her hand .
` That 's Dora .
Is n't she lovely ? '
cried Tom , forget his tribulation for a moment and speak with lover-like ardour .
` Very nice little person to look at .
Hope she be not a Dickens Dora ?
That curly crop look like it . '
` Not a bit ; she 's very smart ; can keep house , and sew , and do lot of thing , I assure you , ma'am .
All the girl like her , and she 's sweet-tempered and jolly , and sings like a bird , and dance beautifully , and love book .
Thinks yours be splendid , and make me talk about you no end . '
` That last sentence be to flatter me and win my help to get you out of the scrape .
Tell me first how you get in ' ; and Mrs Jo settle herself to listen with interest , never tire of boy ' affair .
Tom give his head a rousing rub all over to clear his wit , and plunge into his story with a will .
` Well , we 've meet her before , but I do n't know she be there .
Demi want to see a fellow , so we go , and find it nice and cool rest over Sunday .
Found some pleasant people and go out rowing ; I have Dora , and come to grief on a confounded rock .
She could swim , no harm do , only the scare and the spoilt gown .
She take it well , and we get friendly at once -- could n't help it , scramble into that beast of a boat while the rest laugh at u .
Of course we have to stay another day to see that Dora be all right .
Demi want to .
Alice Heath be down there and two other girl from our college , so we sort of linger along , and Demi keep take picture , and we dance , and get into a tennis tournament ; and that be as good exercise a wheeling , we think .
Fact be , tennis be a dangerous game , ma'am .
A great deal of court go on in those court , and we fellows find that sort of `` serve '' mighty agreeable , do n't you know ? '
` Not much tennis in my day , but I understand perfectly , ' say Mrs Jo , enjoy it all as much a Tom do .
` Upon my word , I have n't the least idea of be serious , ' he continue slowly , a if this part of his tale be hard to tell ; ` but everyone else spoon , so I do .
Dora seem to like it and expect it , and of course I be glad to be agreeable .
She think I amount to something , though Nan do not , and it be pleasant to be appreciate after year of snubbing .
Yes , it be right down jolly to have a sweet girl smile at you all day , and blush prettily when you say a neat thing to her , and look glad when you come , sorry when you leave , and admire all you do , and make you feel like a man and act your best .
That 's the sort of treatment a fellow enjoys and ought to get if he behave himself ; not frown and cold shoulder year in and year out , and make to look like a fool when he mean well , and be faithful , and have love a girl ever since he be a boy .
No , by Jove , it 's not fair , and I wo n't stand it ! '
Tom wax warm and eloquent a he think over his wrong , and bounce up to march about the room , wag his head and try to feel aggrieve a usual , but surprise to find that his heart do not ache a bit . '
I would n't .
Drop the old fancy , for it be nothing more , and take up the new one , if it be genuine .
But how come you to propose , Tom , a you must have do to be engage ? '
ask Mrs Jo , impatient for the crisis of the tale .
` Oh , that be an accident .
I do n't mean it at all ; the donkey do it , and I could n't get out of the scrape without hurt Dora 's feeling , you see , ' begin Tom , see that the fatal moment have come .
` So there be two donkey in it , be there ? '
say Mrs Jo , foresee fun of some sort .
` Do n't laugh !
It sound funny , I know ; but it might have be awful , ' answer Tom darkly , though a twinkle of the eye show that his love trial do not quite blind him to the comic side of the adventure .
` The girl admire our new wheel , and of course we like to show off .
Took 'em to ride , and have lark generally .
Well , one day , Dora be on behind , and we be go nicely along a good bit of road , when a ridiculous old donkey get right across the way .
I think he 'd move , but he do n't , so I give him a kick ; he kick back , and over we go in a heap , donkey and all .
Such a mess !
I think only of Dora , and she have hysteric ; at least , she laugh till she cry , and that beast brayed , and I lose my head .
Any fellow would , with a poor girl gasping in the road , and he wipe her tear and beg pardon , not know whether her bone be break or not .
I call her my darling , and go on like a fool in my flurry , till she grow calmer , and say , with such a look : `` I forgive you , Tom .
Pick me up , and let u go on again . ''
` Was n't that sweet now , after I 'd upset her for the second time ?
It touch me to the heart ; and I say I 'd like to go on for ever with such an angel to steer for , and -- well I do n't know what I do say ; but you might have knock me down with a feather when she put her arm round my neck and whisper : `` Tom , dear , with you I 'm not afraid of any lion in the path . ''
She might have say donkey ; but she be in earnest , and she spar my feeling .
Very nice of the dear girl ; but there I be with two sweetheart on my hand , and in a deuce of a scrape . '
Finding it impossible to contain herself another moment , Mrs Jo laugh till the tear run down her cheek at this characteristic episode ; and after one reproachful look , which only add to her merriment , Tom burst into a jolly roar that make the room ring .
` Tommy Bangs !
Tommy Bangs !
who but you could ever get into such a catastrophe ? '
say Mrs Jo , when she recover her breath .
` Is n't it a muddle all round , and wo n't everyone chaff me to death about it ?
I shall have to quit old Plum for a while , ' answer Tom , a he mop his face , try to realize the full danger of his position .
` No , indeed ; I 'll stand by you , for I think it the best joke of the season .
But tell me how thing end .
Is it really serious , or only a summer flirtation ?
I do n't approve of them , but boy and girl will play with edged tool and cut their finger . '
` Well , Dora consider herself engage , and write to her people at once .
I could n't say a word when she take it all in solemn earnest and seem so happy .
She 's only seventeen , never like anyone before , and be sure all will be all right ; a her father know mine , and we be both well off .
I be so staggered that I say : ' `` Why , you ca n't love me really when we know so little of one another ? ''
But she answer right out of her tender little heart : `` Yes , I do , dearly , Tom ; you be so gay and kind and honest , I could n't help it . ''
Now , after that what could I do but go ahead and make her happy while I stay , and trust to luck to straighten the snarl out afterwards ? ' '
A truly Tomian way of take thing easy .
I hope you tell your father at once . '
` Oh yes , I write off and break it to him in three line .
I say : `` Dear Father , I 'm engage to Dora West , and I hope she will suit the family .
She suit me tip-top .
Yours ever , Tom . ''
He be all right , never like Nan , you know ; but Dora will suit him down to the ground . '
And Tom look entirely satisfy with his own tact and taste .
` What do Demi say to this rapid and funny lovemaking ?
Was n't he scandalize ? '
ask Mrs Jo , try not to laugh again a she think of the unromantic spectacle of donkey , bicycle , boy , and girl all in the dust together .
` Not a bit .
He be immensely interested and very kind ; talk to me like a father ; say it be a good thing to steady a fellow , only I must be honest with her and myself and not trifle a moment .
Demi be a regular Solomon , especially when he be in the same boat , ' answer Tom , look wise .
` You do n't mean -- ? '
gasp Mrs Jo , in sudden alarm at the bare idea of more love-affairs just yet .
` Yes , I do , please , ma'am ; it 's a regular sell all the way through , and I owe Demi one for take me into temptation blindfold .
He say he go to Quitno to see Fred Wallace , but he never saw the fellow .
How could he , when Wallace be off in his yacht all the time we be there ?
Alice be the real attraction , and I be leave to my fate , while they be maunder round with that old camera .
There be three donkey in this affair , and I 'm not the bad one , though I shall have to bear the laugh .
Demi will look innocent and sober , and no one will say a word to him . '
` The midsummer madness have break out , and no one know who will be stricken next .
Well , leave Demi to his mother , and let u see what you be go to do , Tom . ' '
I do n't know exactly ; it 's awkward to be in love with two girl at once .
What do you advise ? ' '
A common-sense view of the case , by all mean .
Dora love you and think you love her .
Nan do not care for you , and you only care for her a a friend , though you have try to do more .
It be my opinion , Tom , that you love Dora , or be on the way to it ; for in all these year I 've never see you look or speak about Nan a you do about Dora .
Opposition have make you obstinately cling to her till accident have show you a more attractive girl .
Now , I think you have good take the old love for a friend , the new one for a sweetheart , and in due time , if the sentiment be genuine , marry her . '
If Mrs Jo have any doubt about the matter , Tom 's face would have prove the truth of her opinion ; for his eye shone , his lip smile , and in spite of dust and sunburn a new expression of happiness quite glorify him a he stand silent for a moment , try to understand the beautiful miracle which real love work when it come to a young man 's heart .
` The fact be I mean to make Nan jealous , for she know Dora , and I be sure would hear of our doings .
I be tire of be walk on , and I think I 'd try to break away and not be a bore and a laughing-stock any more , ' he say slowly , a if it relieve him to pour out his doubt and woe and hope and joy to his old friend . '
I be regularly astonish to find it so easy and so pleasant .
I do n't mean to do any harm , but drift along beautifully , and tell Demi to mention thing in his letter to Daisy , so Nan might know .
Then I forget Nan altogether , and saw , heard , felt , care for no one but Dora , till the donkey -- bless his old heart !
-- pitch her into my arm and I find she love me .
Upon my soul , I do n't see why she should !
I 'm not half good enough . '
` Every honest man feel that when an innocent girl put her hand in his .
Make yourself worthy of her , for she be n't an angel , but a woman with fault of her own for you to bear , and forgive , and you must help one another , ' say Mrs Jo , try to realize that this sober youth be her scapegrace Tommy .
` What trouble me be that I do n't mean it when I begin , and be go to use the dear girl a an instrument of torture for Nan .
It be n't right , and I do n't deserve to be so happy .
If all my scrape end as well a this , what a state of bliss I should be in ! '
and Tom beam again at the rapturous prospect .
` My dear boy , it be not a scrape , but a very sweet experience suddenly dawn upon you , ' answer Mrs Jo , speak very soberly ; for she saw he be in earnest .
` Enjoy it wisely and be worthy of it , for it be a serious thing to accept a girl 's love and trust , and let her look up to you for tenderness and truth in return .
Do n't let little Dora look in vain , but be a man in all thing for her sake , and make this affection a blessing to you both . '
` I 'll try .
Yes , I do love her , only I ca n't believe it just yet .
Wish you know her .
Dear little soul , I long to see her already !
She cry when we part last night and I hat to go . '
Tom 's hand go to his cheek a if he still felt the rosy little seal Dora have set upon his promise not to forget her , and for the first time in his happy-go-lucky life Tommy Bangs understand the difference between sentiment and sentimentality .
The feeling recall Nan , for he have never know that tender thrill when thinking of her , and the old friendship seem rather a prosaic affair beside this delightful mingling of romance , surprise , love , and fun . '
I declare , I feel a if a weight be off me , but what the dickens will Nan say when she know it ! '
he exclaim with a chuckle .
` Knows what ? '
ask a clear voice that make both start and turn , for there be Nan calmly survey them from the doorway .
Anxious to put Tom out of suspense and see how Nan would take the news , Mrs Jo answer quickly : ` Tom 's engagement to Dora West . '
` Really ? '
and Nan look so surprised that Mrs Jo be afraid she might be fond of her old playmate than she know ; but her next word set the fear at rest , and make everything comfortable and merry at once . '
I know my prescription would work wonder if he only take it long enough .
Dear old Tom , I 'm so glad .
Bless you !
bless you ! '
And she shake both his hand with hearty affection .
` It be an accident , Nan .
I do n't mean to , but I 'm always get into mess , and I could n't seem to get out of this any other way .
Mother Bhaer will tell you all about it .
I must go and make myself tidy .
Going to tea with Demi .
See you later . '
Stammering , blushing , and look both sheepish and gratified , Tom suddenly bolt , leave the elder lady to enlighten the young at length , and have another laugh over this new sort of courtship , which might well be call accidental .
Nan be deeply interested , for she know Dora , think her a nice little thing , and predict that in time she would make Tom an excellent wife , since she admire and ` appreciate ' him so much . '
I shall miss him of course , but it will be a relief to me and good for him ; dangling be so bad for a boy .
Now he will go into business with his father and do well , and everyone be happy .
I shall give Dora an elegant family medicine-chest for a wedding-present , and teach her how to use it .
Tom ca n't be trust , and be no more fit for the profession than Silas . '
The latter part of this speech relieve Mrs Jo 's mind , for Nan have look about her a if she have lose something valuable when she begin ; but the medicine-chest seem to cheer her , and the thought of Tom in a safe profession be evidently a great comfort .
` The worm have turn at last , Nan , and your bond-man be free .
Let him go , and give your whole mind to your work ; for you be fit for the profession , and will be an honour to it by and by , ' she say approvingly . '
I hope so .
That remind me -- measles be in the village , and you have good tell the girl not to call where there be child .
It would be bad to have a run of them just a term begin .
Now I 'm off to Daisy .
Wonder what she will say to Tom .
Is n't he great fun ? '
And Nan depart , laugh over the joke with such genuine satisfaction that it be evident no sentimental regret disturb her ` maiden meditation , fancy-free ' . '
I shall have my eye on Demi , but wo n't say a word .
Meg like to manage her child in her own way , and a very good way it be .
But the dear Pelican will be somewhat ruffled if her boy have catch the epidemic which seem to have break out among u this summer . '
Mrs Jo do not mean the measles , but that more serious malady call love , which be apt to ravage community , spring and autumn , when winter gaiety and summer idleness produce whole bouquet of engagement , and set young people to pair off like the bird .
Franz begin it , Nat be a chronic and Tom a sudden case ; Demi seem to have the symptom ; and bad of all , her own Ted have only the day before calmly say to her : ` Mum , I think I should be happy if I have a sweetheart , like the other boy . '
If her cherished son have ask her for dynamite to play with , she would hardly have be more startled , or have more decidedly refuse the absurd request .
` Well , Barry Morgan say I ought to have one and offer to pick me out a nice one among our set .
I ask Josie first , and she hoot at the idea , so I think I 'd let Barry look round .
You say it steady a fellow , and I want to be steady , ' explain Ted in a serious tone , which would have convulse his parent at any other time .
` Good lack !
What be we come to in this fast age when babe and boy make such demand and want to play with one of the most sacred thing in life ? '
exclaim Mrs Jo , and have in a few word set the matter in it true light , send her son away to wholesome baseball and Octoo for a safe sweetheart .
Now , here be Tom 's bomb-shell to explode in their midst , carry widespread destruction , perhaps ; for though one swallow do not make a summer , one engagement be apt to make several , and her boy be , most of them , at the inflammable age when a spark ignite the flame , which soon flicker and die out , or burn warm and clear for life .
Nothing could be do about it but to help them make wise choice , and be worthy of good mate .
But of all the lesson Mrs Jo have try to teach her boys , this great one be the hard ; for love be apt to make lunatic of even saint and sage , so young people can not be expect to escape the delusion , disappointment , and mistake , as well a the delight , of this sweet madness . '
I suppose it be inevitable , since we live in America , so I wo n't borrow trouble , but hope that some of the new idea of education will produce a few hearty , happy , capable , and intelligent girl for my lad .
Lucky for me that I have n't the whole twelve on my hand , I should lose my wit if I have , for I foresee complication and trouble ahead bad than Tom 's boat , bicycle , donkey , and Doras , ' meditate Mrs Jo , a she go back to her neglected proof-sheets .
Tom be quite satisfied with the tremendous effect his engagement produce in the little community at Plumfield .
` It be paralyse , ' a Demi say ; and astonishment leave most of Tom 's mate little breath for chaff .
That he , the faithful one , should turn from the idol to strange goddess , be a shock to the romantic and a warning to the susceptible .
It be comical to see the air our Thomas put on ; for the most ludicrous part of the affair be kindly bury in oblivion by the few who know them , and Tom burst forth a a full-blown hero who have rescue the maiden from a watery grave , and win her gratitude and love by his dare deed .
Dora keep the secret , and enjoy the fun when she come to see Mother Bhaer and pay her respect to the family generally .
Everyone like her at once , for she be a gay and win little soul ; fresh , frank , and so happy , it be beautiful to see her innocent pride in Tom , who be a new boy , or man rather ; for with this change in his life a great change take place in him .
Jolly he would always be , and impulsive , but he try to become all that Dora believe him , and his best side come uppermost for everyday wear .
It be surprise to see how many good trait Tom have ; and his effort to preserve the manly dignity belong to his proud position a an engaged man be very comical .
So be the entire change from his former abasement and devotion to Nan to a somewhat lordly air with his little betrothed ; for Dora make an idol of him , and resent the idea of a fault or a flaw in her Tom .
This new state of thing suit both , and the once blight be bloom finely in the warm atmosphere of appreciation , love , and confidence .
He be very fond of the dear girl , but mean to be a slave no longer , and enjoy his freedom immensely , quite unconscious that the great tyrant of the world have get hold of him for life .
To his father 's satisfaction he give up his medical study , and prepare to go into business with the old gentleman , who be a flourishing merchant , ready now to make the way smooth and smile upon his marriage with Mr West 's well-endowed daughter .
The only thorn in Tom 's bed of rose be Nan 's placid interest in his affair , and evident relief at his disloyalty .
He do not want her to suffer , but a decent amount of regret at the loss of such a lover would have gratify him ; a slight melancholy , a word of reproach , a glance of envy a he pass with adore Dora on his arm , seem but the fitting tribute to such year of faithful service and sincere affection .
But Nan regard him with a maternal sort of air that nettle him very much , and pat Dora 's curly head with a worldlywise air worthy of the withered spinster , Julia Mills , in David Copperfield .
It take some time to get the old and the new emotion comfortably adjust , but Mrs Jo help him , and Mr Laurie give him some wise advice upon the astonishing gymnastic feat the human heart can perform , and be all the good for it if it only hold fast to the balancing-pole of truth and common sense .
At last our Tommy get his bearing , and a autumn come on Plumfield saw but little of him ; for his new lode star be in the city , and business keep him hard at work .
He be evidently in his right place now , and soon thrive finely , to his father 's great contentment ; for his jovial presence pervade the once quiet office like a gale of fresh wind , and his lively wit find manage men and affair much more congenial employment than study disease , or play unseemly prank with skeleton .
Here we will leave him for a time and turn to the more serious adventure of his mate , though this engagement , so merrily make , be the anchor which keep our mercurial Tom happy , and make a man of him .
Chapter 10 .
DEMI SETTLES ` Mother , can I have a little serious conversation with you ? '
ask Demi one evening , a they sit together enjoy the first fire of the season , while Daisy write letter upstairs and Josie be study in the little library close by .
` Certainly , dear .
No bad news , I hope ? '
and Mrs Meg look up from her sew with a mixture of pleasure and anxiety on her motherly face ; for she dearly love a good talk with her son , and know that he always have something worth telling .
` It will be good news for you , I think , ' answer Demi , smile a he throw away his paper and go to sit beside her on the little sofa which just hold two .
` Let me hear it , then , at once . ' '
I know you do n't like the reporting , and will be glad to hear that I have give it up . ' '
I be very glad !
It be too uncertain a business , and there be no prospect of get on for a long time .
I want you settle in some good place where you can stay , and in time make money .
I wish you like a profession ; but a you do n't , any clean , well-established business will do . '
` What do you say to a railroad office ? ' '
I do n't like it .
A noisy , hurry kind of place , I know , with all sort of rough men about .
I hope it be n't that , dear ? ' '
I could have it ; but do book-keeping in a wholesale leather business please you good ? '
` No ; you 'll get round-shouldered writing at a tall desk ; and they say , once a book-keeper always a book-keeper . '
` How do a travelling agent suit your view ? '
` Not at all ; with all those dreadful accident , and the exposure and bad food a you go from place to place , you be sure to get kill or lose your health . ' '
I could be private secretary to a literary man ; but the salary be small , and may end any time . '
` That would be good , and more what I want .
It be n't that I object to honest work of any kind ; but I do n't want my son to spend his best year grub for a little money in a dark office , or be knock about in a rough-and-tumble scramble to get on .
I want to see you in some business where your taste and talent can be develop and make useful ; where you can go on rising , and in time put in your little fortune and be a partner ; so that your year of apprenticeship will not be waste , but fit you to take your place among the honourable men who make their life and work useful and respect .
I talk it all over with your dear father when you be a child ; and if he have live he would have show you what I mean , and help you to be what he be . '
Mrs Meg wipe away a quiet tear a she speak ; for the memory of her husband be a very tender one , and the education of his child have be a sacred task to which she give all her heart and life , and so far she have do wonderfully well -- a her good son and love daughter try to prove .
Demi 's arm be round her now , a he say , in a voice so like his father 's that it be the sweet music to her ear : ` Mother dear , I think I have get just what you want for me ; and it shall not be my fault if I do n't become the man you hope to see me .
Let me tell you all about it .
I do n't say anything till it be sure because it would only worry you ; but Aunt Jo and I have be on the look-out for it some time , and now it have come .
You know her publisher , Mr Tiber , be one of the most successful men in the business ; also generous , kind , and the soul of honour -- a his treatment of Aunty prof .
Well , I 've rather hanker for that place ; for I love book , and a I ca n't make them I 'd like to publish them .
That need some literary taste and judgement , it bring you in contact with fine people , and be an education in itself .
Whenever I go into that large , handsome room to see Mr Tiber for Aunt Jo , I always want to stay ; for it 's line with book and picture , famous men and woman come and go , and Mr Tiber sit at his desk like a sort of king , receive his subject ; for the great author be humble to him , and wait his Yes or No with anxiety .
Of course I 've nothing to do with all that , and may never have ; but I like to see it , and the atmosphere be so different from the dark office and hurly-burly of many other trade , where nothing but money be talk about , that it seem another world , and I feel at home in it .
Yes , I 'd rather beat the door-mats and make fire there than be head clerk in the great hide and leather store at a big salary . '
Here Demi pause for breath ; and Mrs Meg , whose face have be grow brighter and brighter , exclaim eagerly : ` Just what I should like !
Have you get it ?
Oh , my dear boy !
your fortune be make if you go to that well-established and flourishing place , with those good men to help you along ! ' '
I think I have , but we must n't be too sure of anything yet .
I may not suit ; I 'm only on trial , and must begin at the beginning and work my way up faithfully .
Mr Tiber be very kind , and will push me on as fast a be fair to the other fellow , and a I prove myself fit to go up .
I 'm to begin the first of next month in the book-room , fill order ; and I go round and get order , and do various other thing of the sort .
I like it .
I be ready to do anything about book , if it 's only to dust them , ' laugh Demi , well pleased with his prospect , for , after try various thing , he seem at last to have find the sort of work he like , and a prospect that be very invite to him .
` You inherit that love of book from grandpa ; he ca n't live without them .
I 'm glad of it .
Tastes of that kind show a refined nature , and be both a comfort and a help all one 's life .
I be truly glad and grateful , John , that at last you want to settle , and have get such an entirely satisfactory place .
Most boy begin much early ; but I do n't believe in send them out to face the world so young , just when body and soul need home care and watchfulness .
Now you be a man , and must begin your life for yourself .
Do your best , and be a honest , useful , and happy a your father , and I wo n't care about make a fortune . '
` I 'll try , mother .
Could n't have a good chance ; for Tiber & Co. treat their people like gentleman , and pay generously for faithful work .
Things be do in a businesslike way there , and that suit me .
I hate promise that be not keep , and shiftless or tyrannical way anywhere .
Mr Tiber say : `` This be only to teach you the rope , Brooke ; I shall have other work for you by and by . ''
Aunty tell him I have do book notice , and have rather a fancy for literature ; so though I ca n't produce any `` work of Shakespeare '' , a she say , I may get up some little thing later .
If I do n't , I think it a very honourable and noble profession to select and give good book to the world ; and I 'm satisfied to be a humble helper in the work . '
` I 'm glad you feel so .
It add so much to one 's happiness to love the task one do .
I use to hate teaching ; but housekeep for my own family be always sweet , though much harder in many way .
Is n't Aunt Jo please about all this ? '
ask Mrs Meg , already see in her mind 's eye a splendid sign with ` Tiber , Brooke & Co. ' over the door of a famous publishing house .
` So pleased that I could hardly keep her from let the cat out of the bag too soon .
I 've have so many plan , and disappoint you so often , I want to be very sure this time .
I have to bribe Rob and Ted to keep her at home tonight till I 'd tell my news , she be eager to rush down and tell you herself .
The castle that dear woman have build for me would fill all Spain , and have keep u jolly while we wait to know our fate .
Mr Tiber do n't do thing in a hurry ; but when he make up his mind , you be all right ; and I feel that I be fairly launch . '
` Bless you , dear , I hope so !
It be a happy day for me , because I 've be so anxious l , with all my care , I have be too easy and indulgent , and my boy , with his many good gift , might fritter his time away in harmless but unsatisfactory thing .
Now I be at ease about you .
If only Daisy can be happy , and Josie give up her dream , I shall be quite content . '
Demi let his mother enjoy herself for a few minute , while he smile over a certain little dream of his own , not ready yet for the telling ; then he say , in the paternal tone which he unconsciously use when speaking of his sister : ` I 'll see to the girl ; but I begin to think grandpa be right in say we must each be what God and nature make u .
We ca n't change it much -- only help to develop the good and control the bad element in u .
I have fumble my way into my right place at last , I hope .
Let Daisy be happy in her way , since it be a good and womanly one .
If Nat come home all right , I 'd say : `` Bless you , my child , '' and give them a nest of their own .
Then you and I will help little Jo to find out if it be to be `` All the world 's a stage '' or `` Home , sweet home '' , for her . ' '
I suppose we must , John ; but I ca n't help make plan , and hop they will come to pass .
I see that Daisy be bind up in Nat ; and if he be worthy of her I shall let them be happy in their own way , a my parent let me .
But Josie will be a trial , I foresee ; and much a I love the stage , and always do , I do n't see how I can ever let my little girl be an actress , though she certainly have great talent for it . '
` Whose fault be that ? '
ask Demi , smile , a he remember his mother 's early triumph and unquenchable interest in the dramatic effort of the young people round her .
` Mine , I know .
How could it be otherwise when I act Babes in the Wood with you and Daisy before you could speak , and teach Josie to declaim Mother Goose in her cradle .
Ah , me !
the taste of the mother come out in her child , and she must atone for them by let them have their own way , I suppose . '
And Mrs Meg laugh , even while she shake her head over the undeniable fact that the Marches be a theatrical family .
` Why not have a great actress of our name , as well a an authoress , a minister , and an eminent publisher ?
We do n't choose our talent , but we need n't hide them in a napkin because they be not just what we want .
I say , let Jo have her way , and do what she can .
Here be I to take care of her ; and you ca n't deny you 'd enjoy fix her furbelow , and see her shine before the footlights , where you use to long to be .
Come , mother , good face the music and march gaily , since your wilful child will `` gang their ain gait '' . ' '
I do n't see but I must , and `` leave the consequence to the Lord '' , a Marmee use to say when she have to decide , and only saw a step of the road .
I should enjoy it immensely , if I could only feel that the life would not hurt my girl , and leave her unsatisfied when it be too late to change ; for nothing be hard to give up than the excitement of that profession .
I know something of it ; and if your bless father have not come along , I 'm afraid I should have be an actress in spite of Aunt March and all our honoured ancestor . '
` Let Josie add new honour to the name , and work out the family talent in it proper place .
I 'll play dragon to her , and you play nurse , and no harm can come to our little Juliet , no matter how many Romeos spoon under her balcony .
Really , ma'am , opposition come badly from an old lady who be go to wring the heart of our audience in the heroine 's part in Aunty 's play next Christmas .
It 's the most pathetic thing I ever saw , mother ; and I 'm sorry you do n't become an actress , though we should be nowhere if you have . '
Demi be on his leg now , with his back to the fire , in the lordly attitude men like to assume when thing go well with them , or they want to lay down the law on any subject .
Mrs Meg actually blush at her son 's hearty praise , and could not deny that the sound of applause be a sweet now a when she play the Witch 's Curse and The Moorish Maiden 's Vow long year ago .
` It 's perfectly absurd for me to do it , but I could n't resist when Jo and Laurie make the part for me , and you child be to act in it .
The minute I get on the old mother 's dress I forget myself and feel the same thrill at the sound of the bell that I use to feel when we get up play in the garret .
If Daisy would only take the daughter 's part it would be so complete ; for with you and Josie I be hardly act , it be all so real . '
` Especially the hospital scene , where you find the wounded son .
Why , mother , do you know when we do that at last rehearsal my face be wet with real tear a you cry over me .
It will bring down the house ; but do n't forget to wipe 'em off , or I shall sneeze , ' say Demi , laugh at the recollection of his mother 's hit . '
I wo n't ; but it almost break my heart to see you so pale and dreadful .
I hope there will never be another war in my time , for I should have to let you go ; and I never want to live through the same experience we have with father . '
` Do n't you think Alice do the part well than Daisy would ?
Daisy have n't a bit of the actress in her , and Alice put life into the dullest word she speak .
I think the Marquise be just perfect in our piece , ' say Demi , stroll about the room a if the warmth of the fire send a sudden colour to his face .
` So do I .
She be a dear girl , and I 'm proud and fond of her .
Where be she tonight ? '
` Pegging away at her Greek , I suppose .
She usually be in the evening .
More 's the pity , ' add Demi , in a low tone , a he star intently at the book-case , though he could n't read a title .
` Now , there be a girl after my own heart .
Pretty , well-bred , well-educated , and yet domestic , a real companion as well a help-meet for some good and intelligent man .
I hope she will find one . '
` So do I , ' mutter Demi .
Mrs Meg have take up her work again , and be survey a half-finished buttonhole with so much interest that her son 's face escape her eye .
He shed a beaming smile upon the row of poet , a if even in their glass prison they could sympathize and rejoice with him at the first rosy dawn of the great passion which they know so well .
But Demi be a wise youth , and never leap before look carefully .
He hardly know his own heart yet , and be content to wait till the sentiment , the fluttering of those folded wing he begin to feel , should escape from the chrysalis and be ready to soar away in the sunshine to seek and claim it lovely mate .
He have say nothing ; but the brown eye be eloquent , and there be an unconscious underplot to all the little play he and Alice Heath act so well together .
She be busy with her book , bound to graduate with high honour , and he be try to do the same in that large college open to all , and where each man have his own prize to win or lose .
Demi have nothing but himself to offer and , be a modest youth , consider that a poor gift till he have prove his power to earn his living , and the right to take a woman 's happiness into his keep .
No one guess that he have catch the fever except sharp-eyed Josie , and she , have a wholesome fear of her brother -- who could be rather awful when she go too far -- wisely content herself with watch him like a little cat , ready to pounce on the first visible sign of weakness .
Demi have take to play pensively upon his flute after he be in his room for the night , make this melodious friend his confidante , and breathe into it all the tender hope and fear that fill his heart .
Mrs Meg , absorb in domestic affair , and Daisy , who care for no music but Nat 's violin , pay no heed to these chamber concert , but Josie always murmur to herself , with a naughty chuckle , ` Dick Swiveller be think of his Sophy Wackles , ' and bid her time to revenge certain wrong inflict upon her by Demi , who always take Daisy 's side when she try to curb the spirit of her unruly little sister .
This evening she get her chance , and make the most of it .
Mrs Meg be just round off her buttonhole , and Demi still stroll restlessly about the room , when a book be hear to slam in the study , follow by an audible yawn and the appearance of the student look a if sleep and a desire for mischief be struggle which should be master . '
I hear my name ; have you be say anything bad about me ? '
she demand , perch on the arm of an easychair .
Her mother tell the good news , over which Josie duly rejoice , and Demi receive her congratulation with a benignant air which make her feel that too much satisfaction be not good for him , and incite her to put a thorn into his bed of rose at once . '
I catch something about the play just now , and I want to tell you that I 'm go to introduce a song into my part to liven it up a bit .
How would this do ? '
and seat herself at the piano she begin to sing to these word the air of ` Kathleen Mavourneen ' : ` Sweetest of maiden , oh , how can I tell The love that transfigure the whole earth to me ?
The longing that cause my bosom to swell , When I dream of a life all devote to thee ? '
She get no further , for Demi , red with wrath , make a rush at her , and the next moment a very agile young person be see dodge round table and chair with the future partner of Tiber & Co. in hot pursuit .
` You monkey , how dare you meddle with my paper ? '
cry the irate poet , make futile grab at the saucy girl , who skip to and fro , wave a bit of paper tantalizingly before him .
` Did n't ; find it in the big `` Dic '' .
Serves you right if you leave your rubbish about .
Do n't you like my song ?
It 's very pretty . '
` I 'll teach you one that you wo n't like if you do n't give me my property . '
` Come and get it if you can ' ; and Josie vanish into the study to have out her squabble in peace , for Mrs Meg be already say : ` Children , child !
do n't quarrel . '
The paper be in the fire by the time Demi arrive and he at once calm down , see that the bone of contention be out of the way .
` I 'm glad it 's burnt ; I do n't care for it , only some verse I be try to set to music for one of the girl .
But I 'll trouble you to let my paper alone , or I shall take back the advice I give mother tonight about allow you to act as much a you like . '
Josie be sober at once by this dire threat , and in her most wheedling tone beg to know what he have say .
By way of heap coal of fire on her head he tell her , and this diplomatic performance secure him an ally on the spot .
` You dear old boy !
I 'll never tease you again though you moon and spoon both day and night .
If you stand by me , I 'll stand by you and never say a word .
See here !
I 've get a note for you from Alice .
Wo n't that be a peace-offering and soothe your little feeling ? '
Demi 's eye sparkle a Josie hold up a paper cock hat , but a he know what be probably in it , he take the wind out of Josie 's sail , and fill her with blank astonishment by say carelessly : ` That 's nothing ; it 's only to say whether she will go to the concert with u tomorrow night .
You can read it if you like . '
With the natural perversity of her sex Josie cease to be curious the moment she be tell to read it , and meekly hand it over ; but she watch Demi a he calmly read the two line it contain and then throw it into the fire .
` Why , Jack , I think you 'd treasure every scrap the `` sweet maid '' touch .
Do n't you care for her ? '
` Very much ; we all do ; but `` mooning and spooning '' , a you elegantly express it , be not in my line .
My dear little girl , your play make you romantic , and because Alice and I act lover sometimes you take it into your silly head that we be really so .
Do n't waste time hunt mare nest , but attend to your own affair and leave me to mine .
I forgive you , but do n't do it again ; it 's bad taste , and tragedy queen do n't romp . '
The last cut finish Josie ; she humbly beg pardon and go off to bed , while Demi soon follow , feel that he have not only settle himself but his too inquisitive little sister also .
But if he have see her face a she listen to the soft wailing of his flute he would not have be so sure , for she look as cunning a a magpie a she say , with a scornful sniff : ` Pooh , you ca n't deceive me ; I know Dick be serenade Sophy Wackles . '
Chapter 11 .
EMIL 'S THANKSGIVING The Brenda be scud along with all sail set to catch the rise wind , and everyone on board be rejoice , for the long voyage be draw towards an end .
` Four week more , Mrs Hardy , and we 'll give you a cup of tea such a you never have before , ' say second mate Hoffmann , a he pause beside two lady sit in a sheltered corner of the deck . '
I shall be glad to get it , and still gladder to put my foot on solid ground , ' answer the elder lady , smile ; for our friend Emil be a favourite , as well he might be , since he devote himself to the captain 's wife and daughter , who be the only passenger on board .
` So shall I , even if I have to wear a pair of shoe like Chinese junk .
I 've tramp up and down the deck so much , I shall be barefooted if we do n't arrive soon , ' laugh Mary , the daughter , show two shabby little boot a she glance up at the companion of these tramp , remember gratefully how pleasant he have make them .
` Do n't think there be any small enough in China , ' answer Emil , with a sailor 's ready gallantry , privately resolve to hunt up the handsomest shoe he could find the moment he land . '
I do n't know what you would have do for exercise , dear , if Mr Hoffmann have not make you walk every day .
This lazy life be bad for young people , though it suit an old body like me well enough in calm weather .
Is this likely to be a gale , think ye ? '
add Mrs Hardy , with an anxious glance at the west , where the sun be set redly .
` Only a capful of wind , ma'am , just enough to send u along lively , ' answer Emil , with a comprehensive glance aloft and alow .
` Please sing , Mr Hoffmann , it 's so pleasant to have music at this time .
We shall miss it very much when we get ashore , ' say Mary , in a persuasive tone which would have win melody from a shark , if such a thing be possible .
Emil have often bless his one accomplishment during these month , for it cheer the long day , and make the twilight hour his happiest time , wind and weather permitting .
So now he gladly tune his pipe , and lean on the taffrail near the girl , watch the brown lock blow in the wind a he sing her favourite song : ` Give me freshen breeze , my boy , A white and swell sail , A ship that cut the dash wave , And weather every gale .
What life be like a sailor 's life , So free , so bold , so brave ?
His home the ocean 's wide expanse , A coral bed his grave . '
Just a the last note of the clear , strong voice die away , Mrs Hardy suddenly exclaim : ` What 's that ? '
Emil 's quick eye saw at once the little puff of smoke come up a hatchway where no smoke should be , and his heart seem to stand still for an instant a the dread word ` Fire ! '
flash through his mind .
Then he be quite steady , and stroll away say quietly : ` Smoking not allow there , I 'll go and stop it . '
But the instant he be out of sight his face change , and he leap down the hatchway , think , with a queer smile on his lip : ` If we be afire , should n't wonder if I do make a coral bed my grave ! '
He be go a few minute , and when he come up , half stifle with smoke , he be as white a a very brown man could be , but calm and cool a he go to report to the captain .
` Fire in the hold , sir . '
` Do n't frighten the woman , ' be Captain Hardy 's first order ; then both be stir themselves to discover how strong the treacherous enemy be , and to rout it if possible .
The Brenda 's cargo be a very combustible one , and in spite of the stream of water pour into the hold it be soon evident that the ship be doom .
Smoke begin to ooze up between the plank everywhere , and the rise gale soon fan the smoulder fire to flame that begin to break out here and there , tell the dreadful truth too plainly for anyone to hide .
Mrs Hardy and Mary bore the shock bravely when tell to be ready to quit the ship at a minute 's notice ; the boat be hastily prepare , and the men work with a will to batten down every loophole whence the fire might escape .
Soon the poor Brenda be a floating furnace , and the order to ` Take to the boat ! '
come for all .
The woman first , of course , and it be fortunate that , be a merchantman , there be no more passenger on board , so there be no panic , and one after the other the boat push off .
That in which the woman be linger near , for the brave captain would be the last to leave his ship .
Emil stay by him till order away , and reluctantly obey ; but it be well for him he go , for just a he have regain the boat , rock far below , half hide by a cloud of smoke , a mast , undermine by the fire now rag in the bowel of the ship , fell with a crash , knock Captain Hardy overboard .
The boat soon reach him a he float out from the wreck , and Emil sprung into the sea to rescue him , for he be wound and senseless .
This accident make it necessary for the young man to take command , and he at once order the men to pull for their life , a an explosion might occur at any moment .
The other boat be out of danger and all linger to watch the splendid yet awesome spectacle of the burn ship alone on the wide sea , redden the night and cast a lurid glare upon the water , where float the frail boat fill with pale face , all turn for a last look at the fated Brenda , slowly settle to her watery grave .
No one saw the end , however , for the gale soon sweep the watcher far away and separate them , some never to meet again till the sea give up it dead .
The boat whose fortune we must follow be alone when dawn come up , show these survivor all the danger of their situation .
Food and water have be put in , and such provision for comfort and safety a time allow ; but it be evident that with a badly wounded man , two woman , and seven sailor , their supply would not last long , and help be sorely need .
Their only hope be in meet a ship , although the gale , which have rag all night , have blow them out of their course .
To this hope all clung , and wiled away the weary hour , watch the horizon and cheer one another with prophecy of speedy rescue .
Second mate Hoffmann be very brave and helpful , though his unexpected responsibility weigh heavily on his shoulder ; for the captain 's state seem desperate , the poor wife 's grief wring his heart , and the blind confidence of the young girl in his power to save them make him feel that no sign of doubt or fear must lessen it .
The men do their part readily now , but Emil know that if starvation and despair make brute of them , his task might be a terrible one .
So he clutch his courage with both hand , keep up a manly front , and speak so cheerily of their good chance , that all instinctively turn to him for guidance and support .
The first day and night pass in comparative comfort , but when the third come , thing look dark and hope begin to fail .
The wounded man be delirious , the wife wear out with anxiety and suspense , the girl weak for want of food , have put away half her biscuit for her mother , and give her share of water to wet her father 's feverish lip .
The sailor cease rowing and sit grimly wait , openly reproach their leader for not follow their advice , others demand more food , all wax dangerous a privation and pain bring out the animal instinct lurk in them .
Emil do his best , but mortal man be helpless there , and he could only turn his haggard face from the pitiless sky , that drop no rain for their thirst , to the boundless sea where no sail appear to gladden their longing eye .
All day he try to cheer and comfort them , while hunger gnaw , thirst parch , and grow fear lay heavy at his heart .
He tell story to the men , implore them to bear up for the helpless woman 's sake , and promise reward if they would pull while they have strength to regain the lost route , as nearly a he could make it out , and increase their chance of rescue .
He rig an awning of sailcloth over the suffering man and tend him like a son , comfort the wife , and try to make the pale girl forget herself , by sing every song he know or recount his adventure by land and sea , till she smile and take heart ; for all end well .
The fourth day come and the supply of food and water be nearly go .
Emil propose to keep it for the sick man and the woman , but two of the men rebel , demand their share .
Emil give up his a an example , and several of the good fellow follow it , with the quiet heroism which so often crop up in rough but manly nature .
This sham the others , and for another day an ominous peace reign in that little world of suffer and suspense .
But during the night , while Emil , wear out with fatigue , leave the watch to the most trustworthy sailor , that he might snatch an hour 's rest , these two men get at the store and steal the last of the bread and water , and the one bottle of brandy , which be carefully hoard to keep up their strength and make the brackish water drinkable .
Half mad with thirst , they drink greedily and by morning one be in a stupor , from which he never wake ; the other so craze by the strong stimulant , that when Emil try to control him , he leap overboard and be lose .
Horror-stricken by this terrible scene , the other men be submissive henceforth , and the boat float on and on with it sad freight of suffer soul and body .
Another trial come to them that leave all more despairing than before .
A sail appear , and for a time a frenzy of joy prevail , to be turn to bitterest disappointment when it pass by , too far away to see the signal wave to them or hear the frantic cry for help that ring across the sea .
Emil 's heart sank then , for the captain seem die , and the woman could not hold out much long .
He keep up till night come ; then in the darkness , break only by the feeble murmuring of the sick man , the whispered prayer of the poor wife , the ceaseless swash of wave , Emil hide his face , and have an hour of silent agony that age him more than year of happy life could have do .
It be not the physical hardship that daunt him , though want and weakness torture him ; it be his dreadful powerlessness to conquer the cruel fate that seem hang over them .
The men he care little for , since these peril be but a part of the life they choose ; but the master he love , the good woman who have be so kind to him , the sweet girl whose winsome presence have make the long voyage so pleasant for them all -- if he could only save these dear and innocent creature from a cruel death , he felt that he could willingly give his life for them .
As he sit there with his head in his hand , bow down by the first great trial of his young life , the starless sky overhead , the restless sea beneath , and all around him suffer , for which he have no help , a soft sound break the silence , and he listen like one in a dream .
It be Mary singing to her mother , who lay sob in her arm , spent with this long anguish .
A very faint and broken voice it be , for the poor girl 's lip be parch with thirst ; but the loving heart turn instinctively to the great Helper in this hour of despair , and He hear her feeble cry .
It be a sweet old hymn often sing at Plumfield ; and a he listen , all the happy past come back so clearly that Emil forget the bitter present , and be at home again .
His talk on the housetop with Aunt Jo seem but yesterday , and , with a pang of self-reproach , he think : ` The scarlet strand !
I must remember it , and do my duty to the end .
Steer straight , old boy ; and if you ca n't come into port , go down with all sail set . '
Then , a the soft voice croon on to lull the weary woman to a fitful sleep , Emil for a little while forget his burden in a dream of Plumfield .
He saw them all , hear the familiar voice , felt the grip of welcome hand , and seem to say to himself : ` Well , they shall not be ashamed of me if I never see them any more . '
A sudden shout startle him from that brief rest , and a drop on his forehead tell him that the blessed rain have come at last , bring salvation with it ; for thirst be hard to bear than hunger , heat , or cold .
Welcomed by cry of joy , all lift up their parched lip , hold out their hand , and spread their garment to catch the great drop that soon come pour down to cool the sick man 's fever , quench the agony of thirst , and bring refreshment to every weary body in the boat .
All night it fell , all night the castaway revel in the save shower , and take heart again , like die plant revive by heaven 's dew .
The cloud break away at dawn , and Emil spring up , wonderfully brace and cheer by those hour of silent gratitude for this answer to their cry for help .
But this be not all ; a his eye sweep the horizon , clear against the rosy sky shine the white sail of a ship , so near that they could see the pennon at her mast-head and black figure move on the deck .
One cry break from all those eager throat , and rang across the sea , a every man wave hat or handkerchief and the woman stretch implore hand towards this great white angel of deliverance come down upon them a if the fresh wind fill every sail to help her on .
No disappointment now ; answer signal assure them of help ; and in the rapture of that moment the happy woman fell on Emil 's neck , give him his reward in tear and blessing a their grateful heart overflow .
He always say that be the proud moment of his life , a he stand there hold Mary in his arm ; for the brave girl , who have keep up so long , break down then , and clung to him half fainting ; while her mother busy herself about the invalid , who seem to feel the joyful stir , and give an order , a if again on the deck of his lose ship .
It be soon over ; and then all be safely aboard the good Urania , homeward bound .
Emil saw his friend in tender hand , his men among their mate , and tell the story of the wreck before he think of himself .
The savoury odour of the soup , carry by to the cabin for the lady , remind him that he be starve , and a sudden stagger betray his weakness .
He be instantly borne away , to be half kill by kindness , and be feed , clothe , and comfort , be leave to rest .
Just a the surgeon leave the state-room , he ask in his broken voice : ` What day be this ?
My head be so confused , I 've lose my reckoning . '
` Thanksgiving Day , man !
And we 'll give you a regular New England dinner , if you 'll eat it , ' answer the surgeon heartily .
But Emil be too spent to do anything , except lie still and give thanks , more fervently and gratefully than ever before , for the blessed gift of life , which be the sweeter for a sense of duty faithfully perform .
Chapter 12 .
DAN 'S CHRISTMAS Where be Dan ?
In prison .
Alas for Mrs Jo !
how her heart would have ache if she have know that while old Plum shone with Christmas cheer her boy sat alone in his cell , try to read the little book she give him , with eye dim now and then by the hot tear no physical suffering have ever wring from him , and long with a homesick heart for all that he have lose .
Yes , Dan be in prison ; but no cry for help from him a he face the terrible strait he be in with the dumb despair of an Indian at the stake ; for his own bosom sin have bring him there , and this be to be the bitter lesson that tame the lawless spirit and teach him self-control .
The story of his downfall be soon told ; for it come , a so often happen , just when he felt unusually full of high hope , good resolution , and dream of a good life .
On his journey he meet a pleasant young fellow , and naturally felt an interest in him , a Blair be on his way to join his elder brother on a ranch in Kansas .
Card-playing be go on in the smoking-car , and the lad -- for he be barely twenty -- tire with the long journey , beguile the way with such partner a appeared , be full of spirit , and a little intoxicated with the freedom of the West .
Dan , true to his promise , would not join , but watch with intense interest the game that go on , and soon make up his mind that two of the men be sharper anxious to fleece the boy , who have imprudently display a well-filled pocket-book .
Dan always have a soft spot in his heart for any young , weak creature whom he meet , and something about the lad remind him of Teddy ; so he keep an eye on Blair , and warn him against his new friend .
Vainly , of course ; for when all stop overnight in one of the great city , Dan miss the boy from the hotel whither he have take him for safe-keeping ; and learning who have come for him , go to find him , call himself a fool for his pain , yet unable to leave the confiding boy to the danger that surround him .
He find him gamble in a low place with the men , who be bind to have his money ; and by the look of relief on Blair 's anxious face when he saw him Dan know without word that thing be go badly with him , and he saw the peril too late . '
I ca n't come yet -- I 've lose ; it 's not my money ; I must get it back , or I dare not face my brother , ' whisper the poor lad , when Dan beg him to get away without further loss .
Shame and fear make him desperate ; and he play on , sure that he could recover the money confide to his care .
Seeing Dan 's resolute face , keen eye , and travel air , the sharper be wary , played fair , and let the boy win a little ; but they have no mind to give up their prey , and find that Dan stand sentinel at the boy 's back , an ominous glance be exchange between them , which mean : ` We must get this fellow out of the way . '
Dan saw it , and be on his guard ; for he and Blair be stranger , evil deed be easily do in such place , and no tale tell .
But he would not desert the boy , and still keep watch of every card till he plainly detect false play , and boldly say so .
High word pass , Dan 's indignation overcame his prudence ; and when the cheat refuse to restore his plunder with insulting word and drawn pistol , Dan 's hot temper flash out , and he knock the man down with a blow that send him crash head first against a stove , to roll senseless and bleeding to the floor .
A wild scene follow , but in the midst of it Dan whisper to the boy : ` Get away , and hold your tongue .
Do n't mind me . '
Frightened and bewilder , Blair quit the city at once , leave Dan to pass the night in the lock-up , and a few day later to stand in court charge with manslaughter ; for the man be dead .
Dan have no friend , and have once briefly tell the story , hold his peace , anxious to keep all knowledge of this sad affair from those at home .
He even conceal his name -- give that of David Kent , a he have do several time before in emergency .
It be all over very soon ; but a there be extenuate circumstance his sentence be a year in prison , with hard labour .
Dazed by the rapidity with which this horrible change in his life come upon him , Dan do not fully realize it till the iron door clang behind him and he sit alone in a cell a narrow , cold , and silent a a tomb .
He know that a word would bring Mr Laurie to help and comfort him ; but he could not bear to tell of this disgrace , or see the sorrow and the shame it would cause the friend who hop so much for him .
` No , ' he say , clench his fist , ` I 'll let them think me dead first .
I shall be if I be kept here long ' ; and he spring up to pace the stone floor like a caged lion , with a turmoil of wrath and grief , rebellion and remorse , seethe in heart and brain , till he felt a if he should go mad and beat upon the wall that shut him away from the liberty which be his life .
For day he suffer terribly , then wear out , sink into a black melancholy sadder to see than his excitement .
The warden of this prison be a rough man who have win the ill will of all by unnecessary harshness , but the chaplain be full of sympathy , and do his hard duty faithfully and tenderly .
He labour with poor Dan , but seem to make no impression , and be force to wait till work have soothe the excited nerve and captivity tame the proud spirit that would suffer but not complain .
Dan be put in the brush-shop , and feel that activity be his only salvation , work with a feverish energy that soon win the approval of the master and the envy of less skilful mate .
Day after day he sit in his place , watch by an armed overseer , forbidden any but necessary word , no intercourse with the men beside him , no change but from cell to shop , no exercise but the dreary march to and fro , each man 's hand on the other 's shoulder keep step with the dreary tramp so different from the ring tread of soldier .
Silent , gaunt , and grim , Dan do his daily task , eat his bitter bread , and obey command with a rebellious flash of the eye , that make the warden say : ` That 's a dangerous man .
Watch him .
He 'll break out some day . '
There be others more dangerous than he , because old in crime and ready for any desperate outbreak to change the monotony of long sentence .
These men soon divine Dan 's mood , and in the mysterious way convict invent , manage to convey to him before a month be over that plan be be make for a mutiny at the first opportunity .
Thanksgiving Day be one of the few chance for them to speak together a they enjoy an hour of freedom in the prison yard .
Then all would be settle and the rash attempt make if possible , probably to end in bloodshed and defeat for most , but liberty for a few .
Dan have already plan his own escape and bid his time , grow more and more moody , fierce , and rebellious , a loss of liberty wore upon soul and body ; for this sudden change from his free , healthy life to such a narrow , gloomy , and miserable one , could not but have a terrible effect upon one of Dan 's temperament and age .
He brood over his ruined life , give up all his happy hope and plan , felt that he could never face dear old Plumfield again , or touch those friendly hand , with the stain of blood upon his own .
He do not care for the wretched man whom he have kill , for such a life be well end , he think ; but the disgrace of prison would never be wipe out of his memory , though the cropped hair would grow again , the grey suit easily be replace , and the bolt and bar leave far behind .
` It 's all over with me ; I 've spoil my life , now let it go .
I 'll give up the fight and get what pleasure I can anywhere , anyhow .
They shall think me dead and so still care for me , but never know what I be .
Poor Mother Bhaer !
she try to help me , but it 's no use ; the firebrand ca n't be save . '
And drop his head in his hand a he sit on his low bed , Dan would mourn over all he have lose in tearless misery , till merciful sleep would comfort him with dream of the happy day when the boy play together , or those still later and happy one when all smile on him , and Plumfield seem to have gain a new and curious charm .
There be one poor fellow in Dan 's shop whose fate be hard than his , for his sentence expire in the spring , but there be little hope of his living till that time ; and the coldest-hearted man pity poor Mason a he sit cough his life away in that close place and count the weary day yet to pas before he could see his wife and little child again .
There be some hope that he might be pardon out , but he have no friend to bestir themselves in the matter , and it be evident that the great Judge 's pardon would soon end his patient pain for ever .
Dan pity him more than he dare to show , and this one tender emotion in that dark time be like the little flower that spring up between the stone of the prison yard and save the captive from despair , in the beautiful old story .
Dan help Mason with his work when he be too feeble to finish his task , and the grateful look that thank him be a ray of sunshine to cheer his cell when he be alone .
Mason envy the splendid health of his neighbour , and mourn to see it waste there .
He be a peaceful soul and tried , as far a a whispered word or warn glance could do it , to deter Dan from join the ` bad lot ' , a the rebel be call .
But have turn his face from the light , Dan find the downward way easy , and take a grim satisfaction in the prospect of a general outbreak during which he might revenge himself upon the tyrannical warden , and strike a blow for his own liberty , feel that an hour of insurrection would be a welcome vent for the pent-up passion that torment him .
He have tame many a wild animal , but his own lawless spirit be too much for him , till he find the curb that make him master of himself .
The Sunday before Thanksgiving , a he sit in chapel , Dan observe several guest in the seat reserve for them , and look anxiously to see if any familiar face be there ; for he have a mortal fear that someone from home would suddenly confront him .
No , all be stranger , and he soon forget them in listen to the chaplain 's cheerful word , and the sad singing of many heavy heart .
People often speak to the convict , so it cause no surprise when , on be invite to address them , one of the lady rise and say she would tell them a little story ; which announcement cause the young listener to pack up their ear , and even the old one to look interested ; for any change in their monotonous life be welcome .
The speaker be a middle-aged woman in black , with a sympathetic face , eye full of compassion , and a voice that seem to warm the heart , because of certain motherly tone in it .
She remind Dan of Mrs Jo , and he listen intently to every word , feel that each be mean for him , because by chance , they come at the moment when he need a softening memory to break up the ice of despair which be blight all the good impulse of his nature .
It be a very simple little story , but it catch the men 's attention at once , be about two soldier in a hospital during the late war , both badly wound in the right arm , and both anxious to save these breadwinner and go home unmaimed .
One be patient , docile , and cheerfully obeyed order , even when tell that the arm must go .
He submit and after much suffering recover , grateful for life , though he could fight no more .
The other rebelled , would listen to no advice , and have delay too long , die a linger death , bitterly regret his folly when it be too late .
` Now , a all story should have a little moral , let me tell you mine , ' add the lady , with a smile , a she look at the row of young men before her , sadly wonder what bring them there .
` This be a hospital for soldier wound in life 's battle ; here be sick soul , weak will , insane passion , blind conscience , all the ill that come from break law , bring their inevitable pain and punishment with them , There be hope and help for every one , for God 's mercy be infinite and man 's charity be great ; but penitence and submission must come before the cure be possible .
Pay the forfeit manfully , for it be just ; but from the suffering and shame wring new strength for a noble life .
The scar will remain , but it be well for a man to lose both arm than his soul ; and these hard year , instead of be lose , may be make the most precious of your life , if they teach you to rule yourselves .
O friend , try to outlive the bitter past , to wash the sin away , and begin anew .
If not for your own sake , for that of the dear mother , wife , and child , who wait and hope so patiently for you .
Remember them , and do not let them love and long in vain .
And if there be any here so forlorn that they have no friend to care for them , never forget the Father whose arm be always open to receive , forgive , and comfort His prodigal son , even at the eleventh hour . '
There the little sermon end ; but the preacher of it felt that her few hearty word have not be utter in vain , for one boy 's head be down , and several face wear the softened look which tell that a tender memory be touch .
Dan be force to set his lip to keep them steady , and drop his eye to hide the sudden dew that dim them when wait , hop friend be speak of .
He be glad to be alone in his cell again , and sit think deeply , instead of try to forget himself in sleep .
It seem a if those word be just what he need to show him where he stand and how fateful the next few day might be to him .
Should he join the ` bad lot ' , and perhaps add another crime to the one already commit , lengthen the sentence already so terrible to bear , deliberately turn his back on all that be good , and mar the future that might yet be redeem ?
Or should he , like the wiser man in the story , submit , bear the just punishment , try to be good for it ; and though the scar would remain , it might serve a a reminder of a battle not wholly lose , since he have save his soul though innocence be go ?
Then he would dare go home , perhaps , confess , and find fresh strength in the pity and consolation of those who never give him up .
Good and evil fought for Dan that night a do the angel and the devil for Sintram , and it be hard to tell whether lawless nature or loving heart would conquer .
Remorse and resentment , shame and sorrow , pride and passion , make a battle-field of that narrow cell , and the poor fellow felt a if he have fiercer enemy to fight now than any he have meet in all his wandering .
A little thing turn the scale , a it so often do in these mysterious heart of ours , and a touch of sympathy help Dan decide the course which would bless or ban his life .
In the dark hour before the dawn , a he lay wakeful on his bed , a ray of light shone through the bar , the bolt turn softly , and a man come in .
It be the good chaplain , lead by the same instinct that bring a mother to her sick child 's pillow ; for long experience a nurse of soul have teach him to see the sign of hope in the hard face about him , and to know when the moment come for a helpful word and the cordial of sincere prayer that bring such comfort and healing to try and trouble heart .
He have be to Dan before at unexpected hour , but always find him sullen , indifferent , or rebellious , and have go away to patiently bide his time .
Now it have come ; a look of relief be in the prisoner 's face a the light shone on it , and the sound of a human voice be strangely comfortable after listen to the whisper of the passion , doubt , and fear which have haunt the cell for hour , dismay Dan by their power , and show him how much he need help to fight the good fight , since he have no armour of his own .
` Kent , poor Mason have go .
He leave a message for you , and I felt impel to come and give it now , because I think you be touch by what we hear today , and in need of the help Mason try to give you , ' say the chaplain , take the one seat and fix his kind eye on the grim figure in the bed .
` Thank you , sir , I 'd like to hear it , ' be all Dan 's answer ; but he forget himself in pity for the poor fellow dead in prison , with no last look at wife or child .
He go suddenly , but remember you , and beg me to say these word : `` Tell him not to do it , but to hold on , do his best , and when his time be out go right to Mary , and she 'll make him welcome for my sake .
He 's get no friend in these part and will feel lonesome , but a woman 's always safe and comfortable when a fellow 's down on his luck .
Give him my love and good-bye for he be kind to me , and God will bless him for it . ''
Then he die quietly , and tomorrow will go home with God 's pardon , since man 's come too late . '
Dan say nothing , but lay his arm across his face and lay quite still .
Seeing that the pathetic little message have do it work even well than he hop , the chaplain go on , unconscious how soothe his paternal voice be to the poor prisoner who long to ` go home ' , but felt he have forfeit the right . '
I hope you wo n't disappoint this humble friend whose last thought be for you .
I know that there be trouble brewing , and fear that you may be tempt to lend a hand on the wrong side .
Do n't do it , for the plot will not succeed -- it never do -- and it would be a pity to spoil your record which be fair so far .
Keep up your courage , my son , and go out at the year 's end well , not bad , for this hard experience .
Remember a grateful woman wait to welcome and thank you if you have no friend of your own ; if you have , do your best for their sake , and let u ask God to help you a He only can . '
Then wait for no answer the good man pray heartily , and Dan listen a he never have before ; for the lonely hour , the die message , the sudden uprising of his good self , make it seem a if some kind angel have come to save and comfort him .
After that night there be a change in Dan , though no one know it but the chaplain ; for to all the rest he be the same silent , stern , unsocial fellow a before , and turn his back on the bad and the good alike , find his only pleasure in the book his friend bring him .
Slowly , a the steadfast drop wear away the rock , the patient kindness of this man win Dan 's confidence , and lead by him he begin to climb out of the Valley of Humiliation towards the mountain , whence , through the cloud , one can catch glimpse of the Celestial City whither all true pilgrim sooner or later turn their wistful eye and stumble foot .
There be many back-slidings , many struggle with Giant Despair and fiery Apollyon , many heavy hour when life do not seem worth living and Mason 's escape the only hope .
But through all , the grasp of a friendly hand , the sound of a brother 's voice , the unquenchable desire to atone for the past by a good future , and win the right to see home again , keep poor Dan to his great task a the old year draw to it end , and the new wait to turn another leaf in the book whose hard lesson he be learn now .
At Christmas he yearn so for Plumfield that he devise a way to send a word of greet to cheer their anxious heart , and comfort his own .
He write to Mary Mason , who live in another State , ask her to mail the letter he enclose .
In it he merely say he be well and busy , have give up the farm , and have other plan which he would tell later ; would not be home before autumn probably , nor write often , but be all right , and send love and merry Christmas to everyone .
Then he take up his solitary life again , and try to pay his forfeit manfully .
Chapter 13 .
NAT 'S NEW YEAR ' I do n't expect to hear from Emil yet , and Nat write regularly , but where be Dan ?
Only two or three postals since he go .
Such an energetic fellow a he be could buy up all the farm in Kansas by this time , ' say Mrs Jo one morning when the mail come in and no card or envelope bore Dan 's dash hand .
` He never write often , you know , but do his work and then come home .
Months and year seem to mean little to him , and he be probably prospect in the wilderness , forgetful of time , ' answer Mr Bhaer , deep in one of Nat 's long letter from Leipzig .
` But he promise he would let me know how he get on , and Dan keep his word if he can .
I 'm afraid something have happen to him ' ; and Mrs Jo comfort herself by pat Don 's head , a he come at the sound of his master 's name to look at her with eye almost human in their wistful intelligence .
` Do n't worry , Mum dear , nothing ever happen to the old fellow .
He 'll turn up all right , and come stalking in some day with a gold-mine in one pocket and a prairie in the other , as jolly a a grig , ' say Ted , who be in no haste to deliver Octoo to her rightful owner .
` Perhaps he have go to Montana and give up the farm plan .
He seem to like Indians best , I think ' ; and Rob go to help his mother with her pile of letter and his cheerful suggestion . '
I hope so , it would suit him best .
But I be sure he would have tell u his change of plan and sent for some money to work with .
No , I feel in my prophetic bone that something be wrong , ' say Mrs Jo , look as solemn a Fate in a breakfast-cap .
` Then we shall hear ; ill news always travel fast .
Do n't borrow trouble , Jo , but hear how well Nat be get on .
I 'd no idea the boy would care for anything but music .
My good friend Baumgarten have launch him well , and it will do him good if he lose not his head .
A good lad , but new to the world , and Leipzig be full of snare for the unwary .
Gott be with him ! '
The Professor read Nat 's enthusiastic account of certain literary and musical party he have be to , the splendour of the opera , the kindness of his new friend , the delight of study under such a master a Bergmann , his hope of rapid gain , and his great gratitude to those who have open this enchanted world to him .
` That , now , be satisfactory and comfortable .
I felt that Nat have unsuspected power in him before he go away ; he be so manly and full of excellent plan , ' say Mrs Jo , in a satisfied tone .
` We shall see .
He will doubtless get his lesson and be the good for it .
That come to u all in our young day .
I hope it will not be too hard for our good Jungling , ' answer the Professor , with a wise smile , remember his own student life in Germany .
He be right ; and Nat be already get his lesson in life with a rapidity which would have astonish his friend at home .
The manliness over which Mrs Jo rejoice be develop in unexpected way , and quiet Nat have plunge into the more harmless dissipation of the gay city with all the ardour of an inexperienced youth take his first sip of pleasure .
The entire freedom and sense of independence be delicious , for many benefit begin to burden him , and he long to stand on his own leg and make his own way .
No one know his past here ; and with a well-stocked wardrobe , a handsome sum at his banker 's , and the best teacher in Leipzig , he make his debut a a musical young gentleman , present by the much-respected Professor Bhaer and the wealthy Mr Laurence , who have many friend glad to throw open their house to his protege .
Thanks to these introduction , his fluent German , modest manner , and undeniable talent , the stranger be cordially welcome , and launch at once into a circle which many an ambitious young man strive in vain to enter .
All this rather turned Nat 's head ; and a he sit in the brilliant opera-house , chat among the lady at some select coffee-party , or whisk an eminent professor 's amiable daughter down the room , try to imagine she be Daisy , he often ask himself if this gay fellow could be the poor homeless little Street musician who once stand wait in the rain at the gate of Plumfield .
His heart be true , his impulse good , and his ambition high ; but the weak side of his nature come uppermost here ; vanity lead him astray , pleasure intoxicate him , and for a time he forget everything but the delight of this new and charming life .
Without mean to deceive , he allow people to imagine him a youth of good family and prospect ; he boast a little of Mr Laurie 's wealth and influence , of Professor Bhaer 's eminence , and the flourishing college at which he himself have be educate .
Mrs Jo be introduce to the sentimental Frauleins who read her book , and the charm and virtue of his own dear Madchen confide to sympathetic mamma .
All these boyish boasting and innocent vanity be duly circulate among the gossip , and his importance much increase thereby , to his surprise and gratification , as well a some shame .
But they bore fruit that be bitter in the end ; for , find that he be consider one of the upper class , it very soon become impossible for him to live in the humble quarter he have choose , or to lead the studious , quiet life plan for him .
He meet other student , young officer , and gay fellow of all sort , and be flatter at be welcome among them ; though it be a costly pleasure , and often leave a thorn of regret to vex his honest conscience .
He be tempt to take good room in a more fashionable street , leave good Frau Tetzel to lament his loss , and his artist neighbour , Fraulein Vogelstein , to shake her grey ringlet and predict his return , a sadder and a wiser man .
The sum place at his disposal for expense and such simple pleasure a his busy life could command seem a fortune to Nat , though it be small than generous Mr Laurie first propose .
Professor Bhaer wisely counsel prudence , a Nat be unused to the care of money , and the good man know the temptation that a well-filled purse make possible at this pleasure-loving age .
So Nat enjoy his handsome little apartment immensely , and insensibly let many unaccustomed luxury creep in .
He love his music and never miss a lesson ; but the hour he should have spend in patient practice be too often waste at theatre , ball , beer-garden , or club -- do no harm beyond that waste of precious time , and money not his own ; for he have no vice , and take his recreation like a gentleman , so far .
But slowly a change for the worse be begin to show itself , and he felt it .
These first step along the flowery road be downward , not upward ; and the constant sense of disloyalty which soon begin to haunt him make Nat feel , in the few quiet hour he give himself , that all be not well with him , spite of the happy whirl in which he live .
` Another month , and then I will be steady , ' he say more than once , try to excuse the delay by the fact that all be new to him , that his friend at home wish him to be happy , and that society be give him the polish he need .
But a each month slip away it grow hard to escape ; he be inevitably draw on , and it be so easy to drift with the tide that he defer the evil day as long a possible .
Winter festivity follow the more wholesome summer pleasure , and Nat find them more costly ; for the hospitable lady expect some return from the stranger ; and carriage , bouquet , theatre ticket , and all the little expense a young man can not escape at such time , tell heavily on the purse which seem bottomless at first .
Taking Mr Laurie for his model , Nat become quite a gallant , and be universally like ; for through all the newly acquire air and grace the genuine honesty and simplicity of his character plainly shone , win confidence and affection from all who know him .
Among these be a certain amiable old lady with a musical daughter -- well-born but poor , and very anxious to marry the aforesaid daughter to some wealthy man .
Nat 's little fiction concern his prospect and friend charm the gnadige Frau as much a his music and devoted manner do the sentimental Minna .
Their quiet parlour seem homelike and restful to Nat , when tire of gayer scene ; and the motherly interest of the elder lady be sweet and comfortable to him ; while the tender blue eye of the pretty girl be always so full of welcome when he come , of regret when he leave , and of admiration when he play to her , that he find it impossible to keep away from this attractive spot .
He mean no harm , and fear no danger , have confide to the Frau Mamma that he be betroth ; so he continue to call , little dream what ambitious hop the old lady cherish , nor the peril there be in receive the adoration of a romantic German girl , till it be too late to spare her pain and himself great regret .
Of course some inkling of these new and agreeable experience get into the voluminous letter he never be too gay , too busy , or too tired to write each week ; and while Daisy rejoice over his happiness and success , and the boy laugh at the idea of ` old Chirper come out a a society man ' , the elder look sober , and say among themselves : ` He be go too fast ; he must have a word of warning , or trouble may come . '
But Mr Laurie say : ` Oh , let him have his fling ; he 's be dependent and repressed long enough .
He ca n't go far with the money he have , and I 've no fear of his get into debt .
He 's too timid and too honest to be reckless .
It be his first taste of freedom ; let him enjoy it , and he 'll work the good by and by ; I know -- and I 'm sure I 'm right . '
So the warning be very gentle , and the good people wait anxiously to hear more of hard study , and less of ` splendid time ' .
Daisy sometimes wonder , with a pang of her faithful heart , if one of the charm Minnas , Hildegardes , and Lottchens mention be not steal her Nat away from her ; but she never ask , always write calmly and cheerfully , and look in vain for any hint of change in the letter that be wear out with much reading .
Month after month slip away , till the holiday come with gift , good wish , and brilliant festivity .
Nat expect to enjoy himself very much , and do at first ; for a German Christmas be a spectacle worth see .
But he pay dearly for the abandon with which he throw himself into the gaiety of that memorable week ; and on New Year 's Day the reckoning come .
It seem a if some malicious fairy have prepare the surprise that arrive , so unwelcome be they , so magical the change they work , turn his happy world into a scene of desolation and despair as suddenly a a transformation at the pantomime .
The first come in the morning when , duly arm with costly bouquet and bon-bons , he go to thank Minna and her mother for the brace embroider with forget-me-not and the silk sock knit by the old lady 's nimble finger , which he have find upon his table that day .
The Frau Mamma receive him graciously ; but when he ask for the daughter the good lady frankly demand what his intention be , add that certain gossip which have reach her ear make it necessary for him to declare himself or come no more , a Minna 's peace must not be compromise .
A more panic-stricken youth be seldom see than Nat a he receive this unexpected demand .
He saw too late that his American style of gallantry have deceive the artless girl , and might be use with terrible effect by the artful mother , if she choose to do it .
Nothing but the truth could save him , and he have the honour and honesty to tell it faithfully .
A sad scene follow ; for Nat be oblige to strip off his fictitious splendour , confess himself only a poor student , and humbly ask pardon for the thoughtless freedom with which he have enjoy their too confide hospitality .
If he have any doubt of Frau Schomburg 's motif and desire , they be speedily set at rest by the frankness with which she show her disappointment , the vigour with which she scold him , and the scorn with which she cast him off when her splendid castle in the air collapse .
The sincerity of Nat 's penitence soften her a little and she consent to a farewell word with Minna , who have listen at the keyhole , and be produce drench in tear , to fall on Nat 's bosom , cry : ` Ah , thou dear one , never can I forget thee , though my heart be break ! '
This be bad than the scolding ; for the stout lady also weep , and it be only after much German gush and twaddle that he escape , feel like another Werther ; while the deserted Lotte console herself with the bonbon , her mother with the more valuable gift .
The second surprise arrive a he din with Professor Baumgarten .
His appetite have be effectually take away by the scene of the morning , and his spirit receive another damper when a fellow student cheerfully inform him that he be about to go to America , and should make it his agreeable duty to call on the ` lieber Herr Professor Bhaer ' , to tell him how gaily his protege be disport himself at Leipzig .
Nat 's heart die within him a he imagine the effect these glowing tale would have at Plumfield -- not that he have wilfully deceive them , but in his letter many thing be leave untold ; and when Carlsen add , with a friendly wink , that he would merely hint at the come betrothal of the fair Minna and his ` heart 's friend ' , Nat find himself devoutly hop that this other inconvenient heart 's friend might go to the bottom of the sea before he reach Plumfield to blast all his hope by these tale of a mis-spent winter .
Collecting his wit , he caution Carlsen with what he flatter himself be Mephistophelian art , and give him such confused direction that it would be a miracle if he ever find Professor Bhaer .
But the dinner be spoil for Nat , and he get away as soon a possible , to wander disconsolately about the street , with no heart for the theatre or the supper he be to share with some gay comrade afterwards .
He comfort himself a little by give alms to sundry beggar , make two child happy with gilded gingerbread , and drink a lonely glass of beer , in which he toast his Daisy and wish himself a good year than the last have be .
Going home at length , he find a third surprise await him in the shower of bill which have descend upon him like a snowstorm , bury him in an avalanche of remorse , despair , and self-disgust .
These bill be so many and so large that he be startle and dismay ; for , a Mr Bhaer wisely predict , he know little about the value of money .
It would take every dollar at the banker to pay them all at once , and leave him penniless for the next six month , unless he write home for more .
He would rather starve than do that ; and his first impulse be to seek help at the gaming-table , whither his new friend have often tempt him .
But he have promise Mr Bhaer to resist what then have seem an impossible temptation ; and now he would not add another fault to the list already so long .
Borrow he would not , nor beg .
What could he do ?
For these appalling bill must be pay , and the lesson go on ; or his journey be an ignominious failure .
But he must live meantime .
And how ?
Bowed down with remorse for the folly of these month , he saw too late whither he be drift , and for hour pace up and down his pretty room , flounder in a Slough of Despond , with no help hand to pull him out -- at least he think so till letter be bring in , and among fresh bill lay one well-worn envelope with an American stamp in the corner .
Ah , how welcome it be !
how eagerly he read the long page full of affectionate wish from all at home !
For everyone have send a line , and a each familiar name appear , his eye grow dimmer and dimmer till , a he read the last -- ` God bless my boy !
Mother Bhaer ' -- he break down ; and lay his head on his arm , blister the paper with a rain of tear that ease his heart and wash away the boyish sin that now lay so heavy on his conscience .
` Dear people , how they love and trust me !
And how bitterly they would be disappoint if they know what a fool I 've be !
I 'll fiddle in the street again before I 'll ask for help from them ! '
cry Nat , brush away the tear of which he be ashamed , although he felt the good they have do .
Now he seem to see more clearly what to do ; for the help hand have be stretch across the sea , and Love , the dear Evangelist , have lift him out of the slough and show him the narrow gate , beyond which deliverance lay .
When the letter have be reread , and one corner where a daisy be paint , passionately kiss , Nat felt strong enough to face the bad and conquer it .
Every bill should be pay , every salable thing of his own sold , these costly room give up ; and once back with thrifty Frau Tetzel , he would find work of some sort by which to support himself , a many another student do .
He must give up the new friend , turn his back on the gay life , cease to be a butterfly , and take his place among the grub .
It be the only honest thing to do , but very hard for the poor fellow to crush his little vanity , renounce the delight so dear to the young , own his folly , and step down from his pedestal to be pity , laugh at , and forgotten .
It take all Nat 's pride and courage to do this , for his be a sensitive nature ; esteem be very precious to him , failure very bitter , and nothing but the inborn contempt for meanness and deceit keep him from ask help or try to hide his need by some dishonest device .
As he sit alone that night , Mr Bhaer 's word come back to him with curious clearness , and he saw himself a boy again at Plumfield , punish his teacher a a lesson to himself , when timidity have make him lie .
` He shall not suffer for me again , and I wo n't be a sneak if I be a fool .
I 'll go and tell Professor Baumgarten all about it and ask his advice .
I 'd rather face a loaded cannon ; but it must be do .
Then I 'll sell out , pay my debt , and go back where I belong .
Better be an honest pauper than a jackdaw among peacock ' ; and Nat smile in the midst of his trouble , a he look about him at the little elegancies of his room , remember what he come from .
He keep his word manfully , and be much comfort to find that his experience be an old story to the professor , who approve his plan , think wisely that the discipline would be good for him , and be very kind in offer help and promising to keep the secret of his folly from his friend Bhaer till Nat have redeem himself .
The first week of the new year be spend by our prodigal in carry out his plan with penitent dispatch , and his birthday find him alone in the little room high up at Frau Tetzel 's , with nothing of his former splendour , but sundry unsalable keepsake from the buxom maiden , who mourn his absence deeply .
His male friend have ridicule , pity , and soon leave him alone , with one or two exception , who offer their purse generously and promise to stand by him .
He be lonely and heavy-hearted , and sit brooding over his small fire a he remember the last New Year 's Day at Plumfield , when at this hour he be dance with his Daisy .
A tap at the door rouse him , and with a careless ` Herein ' , he wait to see who have climb so far for his sake .
It be the good Frau proudly bear a tray , on which stand a bottle of wine and an astonishing cake bedeck with sugar-plums of every hue , and crown with candle .
Fraulein Vogelstein follow , embrace a bloom rose-tree , above which her grey curl wave and her friendly face beam joyfully a she cry : ` Dear Herr Blak , we bring you greeting and a little gift or two in honour of this ever-to-be-remembered day .
Best wish !
and may the new year bloom for you as beautifully a we your heart-warm friend desire . '
` Yes , yes , in truth we do , dear Herr , ' add Frau Tetzel .
` Eat of this with-joy-made Kuchen , and drink to the health of the far-away beloved one in the good wine . '
Amused , yet touch by the kindness of the good soul , Nat thank them both , and make them stay to enjoy the humble feast with him .
This they gladly do , be motherly woman full of pity for the dear youth , whose strait they know , and have substantial help to offer , as well a kind word and creature comfort .
Frau Tetzel , with some hesitation , mention a friend of hers who , force by illness to leave his place in the orchestra of a second-rate theatre , would gladly offer it to Nat , if he could accept so humble a position .
Blushing and toy with the rose like a shy girl , good old Vogelstein ask if in his leisure moment he could give English lesson in the young lady ' school where she teach paint , add that a small but certain salary would be pay him .
Gratefully Nat accept both offer , find it less humiliate to be help by woman than by friend of his own sex .
This work would support him in a frugal way , and certain musical drudgery promise by his master assure his own teaching .
Delighted with the success of their little plot , these friendly neighbour leave him with cheery word , warm hand-grasps , and face beam with feminine satisfaction at the hearty kiss Nat put on each fade cheek , a the only return he could make for all their helpful kindness .
It be strange how much brighter the world look after that ; for hope be a good cordial than the wine , and good resolution bloom as freshly a the little rose-tree that fill the room with fragrance , a Nat wake the echo with the dear old air , find now a always his best comforter in music , to whom henceforth he swear to be a more loyal subject .
Chapter 14 .
PLAYS AT PLUMFIELD As it be a impossible for the humble historian of the March family to write a story without theatrical in it a for our dear Miss Yonge to get on with less than twelve or fourteen child in her interesting tale , we will accept the fact , and at once cheer ourselves after the last afflicting event , by proceed to the Christmas play at Plumfield ; for they influence the fate of several of our character , and can not well be skip .
When the college be build Mr Laurie add a charming little theatre which not only serve for play , but declamation , lecture , and concert .
The drop-curtain displayed Apollo with the Muses group about him ; and a a compliment to the donor of the hall the artist have give the god a decide resemblance to our friend , which be consider a superb joke by everyone else .
Home talent furnish star , stock company , orchestra , and scene painter ; and astonish performance be give on this pretty little stage .
Mrs Jo have be try for some time to produce a play which should be an improvement upon the adaptation from the French then in vogue , curious mixture of fine toilette , false sentiment , and feeble wit , with no touch of nature to redeem them .
It be easy to plan plays full of noble speech and thrill situation , but very hard to write them ; so she content herself with a few scene of humble life in which the comic and pathetic be mingle ; and a she fit her character to her actor , she hop the little venture would prove that truth and simplicity have not entirely lose their power to charm .
Mr Laurie help her , and they call themselves Beaumont and Fletcher , enjoy their joint labour very much ; for Beaumont 's knowledge of dramatic art be of great use in curb Fletcher 's too-aspiring pen , and they flatter themselves that they have produce a neat and effective bit of work a an experiment .
All be ready now ; and Christmas Day be much enliven by last rehearsal , the panic of timid actor , the scramble for forgotten property , and the decoration of the theatre .
Evergreen and holly from the wood , bloom plant from the hothouse on Parnassus , and flag of all nation make it very gay that night in honour of the guest who be come , chief among them , Miss Cameron , who keep her promise faithfully .
The orchestra tune their instrument with unusual care , the scene-shifters set their stage with lavish elegance , the prompter heroically take his seat in the stifling nook provide for him , and the actor dress with tremble hand that drop the pin , and perspire brow whereon the powder would n't stick .
Beaumont and Fletcher be everywhere , feel that their literary reputation be at stake ; for sundry friendly critic be invite , and reporter , like mosquito , can not be exclude from any earthly scene , be it a great man 's death-bed or a dime museum .
` Has she come ? '
be the question ask by every tongue behind the curtain ; and when Tom , who play an old man , endanger his respectable leg among the footlights to peep , announce that he saw Miss Cameron 's handsome head in the place of honour , a thrill pervade the entire company , and Josie declare with an excited gasp that she be go to have stage fright for the first time in her life .
` I 'll shake you if you do , ' say Mrs Jo , who be in such a wild state of dishevelment with her varied labour that she might have go on a Madge Wildlife , without an additional rag or crazy elf-lock .
` You 'll have time to get your wit together while we do our piece .
We be old stager and calm a clock , ' answer Demi , with a nod towards Alice , ready in her pretty dress and all her property at hand .
But both clock be go rather faster than usual , a heighten colour , brilliant eye , and a certain flutter under the lace and velvet coat betrayed .
They be to open the entertainment with a gay little piece which they have play before and do remarkably well .
Alice be a tall girl , with dark hair and eye , and a face which intelligence , health , and a happy heart make beautiful .
She be look her best now , for the brocade , plume , and powder of the Marquise become her stately figure ; and Demi in his court suit , with sword , three-cornered hat , and white wig , make a gallant a Baron a one would wish to see .
Josie be the maid , and look her part to the life , be a pretty , pert , and inquisitive a any French soubrette .
These three be all the character ; and the success of the piece depend on the spirit and skill with which the quickly change mood of the quarrelsome lover be give , their witty speech make to tell , and by-play suit to the courtly period in which the scene be lay .
Few would have recognize sober John and studious Alice in the dashing gentleman and coquettish lady , who keep the audience laugh at their caprice ; while they enjoy the brilliant costume , and admire the ease and grace of the young actor .
Josie be a prominent figure in the plot , a she listen at keyhole , peep into note , and pop in and out at all the most inopportune moment , with her nose in the air , her hand in her apron-pockets , and curiosity pervade her little figure from the topmost bow of her jaunty cap to the red heel of her slipper .
All go smoothly ; and the capricious Marquise , after torment the devote Baron to her heart 's content , own herself conquer in the war of wit , and be just offer the hand he have fairly win , when a crash startle them , and a heavily decorate side-scene swayed forward , ready to fall upon Alice .
Demi saw it and sprung before her to catch and hold it up , stand like a modern Samson with the wall of a house on his back .
The danger be over in a moment , and he be about to utter his last speech , when the excited young scene-shifter , who have fly up a ladder to repair the damage , lean over to whisper ` All right ' , and release Demi from his spread-eagle attitude : a he do so , a hammer slip out of his pocket , to fall upon the upturned face below , inflict a smart blow and literally knock the Baron 's part out of his head . '
A quick curtain , ' rob the audience of a pretty little scene not down on the bill ; for the Marquise fly to staunch the blood with a cry of alarm : ` Oh !
John , you be hurt !
Lean on me ' -- which John gladly do for a moment , be a trifle daze yet quite able to enjoy the tender touch of the hand busy about him and the anxiety of the face so near his own ; for both tell him something which he would have consider cheaply win by a rain of hammer and the fall of the whole college on his head .
Nan be on the spot in a moment with the case that never leave her pocket ; and the wound be neatly plaster up by the time Mrs Jo arrive , demand tragically : ` Is he too much hurt to go on again ?
If he be , my play be lose ! '
` I 'm all the fitter for it , Aunty ; for here 's a real instead of a paint wound .
I 'll be ready ; do n't worry about me . '
And catch up his wig , Demi be off , with only a very eloquent look of thanks to the Marquise , who have spoil her glove for his sake , but do not seem to mind it at all , though they reach above her elbow , and be most expensive .
` How be your nerve , Fletcher ? '
ask Mr Laurie a they stand together during the breathless minute before the last bell ring .
` About as calm a yours , Beaumont , ' answer Mrs Jo , gesticulate wildly to Mrs Meg to set her cap straight .
` Bear up , partner !
I 'll stand by you whatever come ! ' '
I feel that it ought to go ; for , though it 's a mere trifle , a good deal of honest work and truth have go into it .
Does n't Meg look the picture of a dear old country woman ? '
She certainly do , a she sit in the farmhouse kitchen by a cheery fire , rock a cradle and darning stocking , a if she have do nothing else all her life .
Grey hair , skilfully draw line on the forehead , and a plain gown , with cap , little shawl , and check apron , change her into a comfortable , motherly creature who find favour the moment the curtain go up and discover her rocking , darning , and croon an old song .
In a short soliloquy about Sam , her boy , who want to enlist ; Dolly , her discontented little daughter , who long for city ease and pleasure ; and poor ` Elizy ' , who have marry badly , and come home to die , bequeath her baby to her mother , l it bad father should claim it , the little story be very simply open , and make effective by the real boiling of the kettle on the crane , the ticking of a tall clock , and the appearance of a pair of blue worst shoe which wave fitfully in the air to the soft babble of a baby 's voice .
Those shapeless little shoe win the first applause ; and Mr Laurie , forget elegance in satisfaction , whisper to his coadjutor : ' I think the baby would fetch them ! '
` If the dear thing wo n't squall in the wrong place , we be save .
But it be risky .
Be ready to catch it if all Meg 's cuddling prove in vain , ' answer Mrs Jo , add , with a clutch at Mr Laurie 's arm a a haggard face appear at the window : ` Here 's Demi !
I hope no one will recognize him when he come on a the son .
I 'll never forgive you for not do the villain yourself . '
` Ca n't run the thing and act too .
He 's capitally make up , and like a bit of melodrama . '
` This scene ought to have come later ; but I want to show that the mother be the heroine as soon a possible .
I 'm tired of love-sick girl and runaway wife .
We 'll prove that there 's romance in old woman also .
Now he 's come ! '
And in slouch a degraded-looking man , shabby , unshaven , and evil-eyed , try to assume a masterful air a he dismay the tranquil old woman by demand his child .
A powerful scene follow ; and Mrs Meg surprise even those who know her best by the homely dignity with which she at first meet the man she dread ; then , a he brutally press his claim , she plead with trembling voice and hand to keep the little creature she have promise the die mother to protect ; and when he turn to take it by force , quite a thrill go through the house a the old woman sprung to snatch it from the cradle , and hold it close , defy him in God 's name to tear it from that sacred refuge .
It be really well do ; and the round of applause that greet the fine tableau of the indignant old woman , the rosy , blink baby cling to her neck , and the daunted man who dare not execute his evil purpose with such a defender for helpless innocence , tell the excited author that their first scene be a hit .
The second be quieter , and introduce Josie a a bonny country lass set the supper-table in a bad humour .
The pettish way in which she slap down the plate , hustle the cup , and cut the big brown loaf , a she relate her girlish trial and ambition , be capital .
Mrs Jo keep her eye on Miss Cameron , and saw her nod approval several time at some natural tone or gesture , some good bit of by-play or a quick change of expression in the young face , which be as variable a an April day .
Her struggle with the toasting-fork make much merriment ; so do her contempt for the brown sugar , and the relish with which she sweeten her irksome duty by eat it ; and when she sit , like Cinderella , on the hearth , tearfully watch the flame dance on the homely room , a girlish voice be hear to exclaim impulsively : ` Poor little thing !
she ought to have some fun ! '
The old woman enters ; and mother and daughter have a pretty scene , in which the latter coax and threatens , kiss and cry , till she win the reluctant consent of the former to visit a rich relation in the city ; and from be a little thunder-cloud Dolly become bewitchingly gay and good , as soon a her wilful wish be grant .
The poor old soul have hardly recover from this trial when the son enters , in army blue , tell he have enlist and must go .
That be a hard blow ; but the patriotic mother bear it well , and not till the thoughtless young folk have hasten away to tell their good news elsewhere do she break down .
Then the country kitchen becomes pathetic a the old mother sit alone mourning over her child , till the grey head be hide in the hand a she kneel down by the cradle to weep and pray , with only Baby to comfort her fond and faithful heart .
Sniffs be audible all through the latter part of this scene ; and when the curtain fell , people be so busy wipe their eye that for a moment they forget to applaud .
That silent moment be more flattering than noise ; and a Mrs Jo wipe the real tear off her sister 's face , she say as solemnly a an unconscious dab of rouge on her nose permit : ` Meg , you have save my play !
Oh , why be n't you a real actress , and I a real playwright ? '
` Do n't gush now , dear , but help me dress Josie ; she 's in such a quiver of excitement , I ca n't manage her , and this be her best scene , you know . '
So it be ; for her aunt have write it especially for her , and little Jo be happy in a gorgeous dress , with a train long enough to satisfy her wild dream .
The rich relation 's parlour be in festival array , and the country cousin sail in , look back at her sweeping flounce with such artless rapture that no one have the heart to laugh at the pretty jay in borrow plume .
She have confidence with herself in the mirror , from which it be make evident that she have discover all be not gold that glitter , and have find great temptation than those a girlish love of pleasure , luxury , and flattery bring her .
She be seek by a rich lover ; but her honest heart resist the allurement he offer , and in it innocent perplexity wish ` mother ' be there to comfort and counsel .
A gay little dance , in which Dora , Nan , Bess , and several of the boy take part , make a good background for the humble figure of the old woman in her widow 's bonnet , rusty shawl , big umbrella , and basket .
Her naive astonishment , a she survey the spectacle , feel the curtain , and smooth her old glove during the moment she remain unseen , be very good ; but Josie 's unaffected start when she see her , and the cry : ` Why , there 's mother ! '
be such a hearty little bit of nature , it hardly need the impatient tripping over her train a she run into the arm that seem now to be her near refuge .
The lover play his part ; and ripple of merriment greet the old woman 's searching question and blunt answer during the interview which show the girl how shallow his love be , and how near she have be to ruin her life as bitterly a poor ` Elizy ' do .
She give her answer frankly , and when they be alone , look from her own bedizen self to the shabby dress , work-worn hand , and tender face , cry with a repentant sob and kiss : ` Take me home , mother , and keep me safe .
I 've have enough of this ! '
` That will do you good , Maria ; do n't forget it , ' say one lady to her daughter a the curtain go down ; and the girl answer : ` Well , I 'm sure I do n't see why it 's touch ; but it be , ' a she spread her lace handkerchief to dry .
Tom and Nan come out strong in the next scene ; for it be a ward in an army hospital , and surgeon and nurse go from bed to bed , feeling pulse , administer dos , and hear complaint with an energy and gravity which convulse the audience .
The tragic element , never far from the comic at such time and place , come in when , while they bandage an arm , the doctor tell the nurse about an old woman who be search through the hospital for her son , after day and night on battlefield , through ambulance , and among scene which would have kill most woman .
` She will be here directly , and I dread her coming , for I 'm afraid the poor lad who have just go be her boy .
I 'd rather face a cannon than these brave woman , with their hope and courage and great sorrow , ' say the surgeon .
` Ah , these poor mother break my heart ! '
add the nurse , wipe her eye on her big apron ; and with the word Mrs Meg come in .
There be the same dress , the basket and umbrella , the rustic speech , the simple manner ; but all be make pathetic by the terrible experience which have change the tranquil old woman to that haggard figure with wild eye , dusty foot , tremble hand , and an expression of mingled anguish , resolution , and despair which give the homely figure a tragic dignity and power that touch all heart .
A few broken word tell the story of her vain search , and then the sad quest begin again .
People hold their breath a , lead by the nurse , she go from bed to bed , show in her face the alternation of hope , dread , and bitter disappointment a each be pass .
On a narrow cot be a long figure cover with a sheet , and here she pause to lay one hand on her heart and one on her eye , a if to gather courage to look at the nameless dead .
Then she draw down the sheet , give a long shivering sigh of relief , say softly : ` Not my son , thank God !
but some mother 's boy . '
And stoop down , she kiss the cold forehead tenderly .
Somebody sob there , and Miss Cameron shake two tear out of her eye , anxious to lose no look or gesture a the poor soul , nearly spend with the long strain , struggle on down the long line .
But her search be happily end for , a if her voice have rouse him from his feverish sleep , a gaunt , wild-eyed man sit up in his bed , and stretch his arm to her , cry in a voice that echo through the room : ` Mother , mother !
I know you 'd come to me ! '
She do go to him , with a cry of love and joy that thrill every listener , a she gather him in her arm with the tear and prayer and bless such a only a fond and faithful old mother could give .
The last scene be a cheerful contrast to this ; for the country kitchen be bright with Christmas cheer , the wounded hero , with black patch and crutch well displayed , sit by the fire in the old chair whose familiar creak be soothe to his ear ; pretty Dolly be stir about , gaily trim dresser , settle , high chimney-piece , and old-fashioned cradle with mistletoe and holly ; while the mother rest beside her son , with that bless baby on her knee .
Refreshed by a nap and nourishment , this young actor now cover himself with glory by his ecstatic prancings , incoherent remark to the audience , and vain attempt to get to the footlights , a he blink approvingly at these brilliant toy .
It be good to see Mrs Meg pat him on the back , cuddle the fat legs out of sight , and appease his vain longing with a lump of sugar , till Baby embrace her with a grateful ardour that bring him a round of applause all for his little self .
A sound of sing outside disturbs the happy family , and , after a carol in the snowy moonlight , a flock of neighbour troop in with Christmas gift and greeting .
Much by-play make this a lively picture ; for Sam 's sweetheart hover round him with a tenderness the Marquise do not show the Baron ; and Dolly have a pretty bit under the mistletoe with her rustic adorer , who look so like Ham Peggotty in his cowhide boot , rough jacket , and dark beard and wig , that no one would have recognize Ted but for the long leg , which no extent of leather could disguise .
It end with a homely feast , bring by the guest ; and a they sit round the table cover with doughnut and cheese , pumpkin-pie , and other delicacy , Sam rise on his crutch to propose the first toast , and hold up his mug of cider , say , with a salute , and a choke in his voice : ` Mother , God bless her ! '
All drink it stand , Dolly with her arm round the old woman 's neck , a she hide her happy tear on her daughter 's breast ; while the irrepressible baby beat rapturously on the table with a spoon , and crow audibly a the curtain go down .
They have it up again in a jiffy to get a last look at the group about that central figure , which be shower with bouquet , to the great delight of the infant Roscius ; till a fat rosebud hit him on the nose , and produce the much-dreaded squall , which , fortunately , only add to the fun at that moment .
` Well , that will do for a beginning , ' say Beaumont , with a sigh of relief , a the curtain descend for the last time , and the actor scatter to dress for the closing piece .
` As an experiment , it be a success .
Now we can venture to begin our great American drama , ' answer Mrs Jo , full of satisfaction and grand idea for the famous play -- which , we may add , she do not write that year , owe to various dramatic event in her own family .
The Owlsdark Marbles close the entertainment , and , be something new , prove amuse to this very indulgent audience .
The god and goddess on Parnassus be display in full conclave ; and , thanks to Mrs Amy 's skill in drape and posing , the white wig and cotton-flannel robe be classically correct and graceful , though sundry modern addition somewhat mar the effect , while add point to the showman 's learn remark .
Mr Laurie be Professor Owlsdark in cap and gown ; and , after a high-flown introduction , he proceed to exhibit and explain his marble .
The first figure be a stately Minerva ; but a second glance produce a laugh , for the word ` Women 's Rights ' adorn her shield , a scroll bear the motto ` Vote early and often ' hung from the beak of the owl perch on her lance , and a tiny pestle and mortar ornament her helmet .
Attention be draw to the firm mouth , the piercing eye , the awe-inspiring brow , of the strong-minded woman of antiquity , and some scathing remark make upon the degeneracy of her modern sister who fail to do their duty .
Mercury come next , and be very fine in his airy attitude , though the winged leg quiver a if it be difficult to keep the lively god in his place .
His restless nature be dilate upon , his mischievous freak allude to , and a very bad character give to the immortal messenger-boy ; which delight his friend and cause the marble nose of the victim to curl visibly with scorn when derisive applause greet a particularly hard hit .
A charming little Hebe stand next , pour nectar from a silver teapot into a blue china tea-cup .
She also point a moral ; for the Professor explain that the nectar of old be the beverage which cheer but do not inebriate , and regret that the excessive devotion of American woman to this classic brew prove so harmful , owe to the great development of brain their culture produce .
A touch at modern servant , in contrast to this accomplish table-girl , make the statue 's cheek glow under the chalk , and bring her a hearty round a the audience recognize Dolly and the smart soubrette .
Jove in all his majesty follow , a he and his wife occupy the central pedestal in the half-circle of immortal .
A splendid Jupiter , with hair well set up off the fine brow , ambrosial beard , silver thunderbolt in one hand , and a well-worn ferule in the other .
A large stuffed eagle from the museum stand at his foot ; and the benign expression of his august countenance show that he be in a good humour -- as well he might be , for he be pay some handsome compliment upon his wise rule , the peaceful state of his kingdom , and the brood of all-accomplished Pallases that yearly issue from his mighty brain .
Cheers greet this and other pleasant word , and cause the thunderer to bow his thanks ; for ` Jove nod ' , a everyone know , and flattery win the heart of god and men .
Mrs Juno , with her peacock , darning-needle , pen , and cooking-spoon , do not get off so easily ; for the Professor be down on her with all manner of mirth-provoking accusation , criticism , and insult even .
He allude to her domestic infelicity , her meddlesome disposition , sharp tongue , bad temper , and jealousy , closing , however , with a tribute to her skill in care for the wound and settle the quarrel of belligerent hero , as well a her love for youth in Olympus and on earth .
Gales of laughter greet these hit , vary by hiss from some indignant boy , who would not bear , even in joke , any disrespect to dear Mother Bhaer , who , however , enjoy it all immensely , a the twinkle in her eye and the irrepressible pucker of her lip betray .
A jolly Bacchus astride of his cask take Vulcan 's place , and appear to be very comfortable with a beer-mug in one hand , a champagne bottle in the other , and a garland of grape on his curly head .
He be the text of a short temperance lecture , aim directly at a row of smart young gentleman who line the wall of the auditorium .
George Cole be see to dodge behind a pillar at one point , Dolly nudge his neighbour at another , and there be laughter all along the line a the Professor glare at them through his big glass , and drag their bacchanalian orgy to the light and hold them up to scorn .
Seeing the execution he have do , the learned man turn to the lovely Diana , who stand a white and still a the plaster stag beside her , with sandal , bow , and crescent ; quite perfect , and altogether the best piece of statuary in the show .
She be very tenderly treat by the paternal critic who , merely allude to her confirmed spinsterhood , fondness for athletic sport , and oracular power , give a graceful little exposition of true art and pass on to the last figure .
This be Apollo in full fig , his curl skilfully arrange to hide a well-whitened patch over the eye , his handsome leg correctly poise , and his gifted finger about to draw divine music from the silver gridiron which be his lyre .
His divine attribute be describe , as well a his little folly and failing , among which be his weakness for photography and flute-playing , his attempt to run a newspaper , and his fondness for the society of the Muses ; which latter slap produce giggle and blush among the girl-graduates , and much mirth among the stricken youth ; for misery love company , and after this they begin to rally .
Then , with a ridiculous conclusion , the Professor bow his thanks ; and after several recall the curtain fell , but not quickly enough to conceal Mercury , wildly wave his liberated leg , Hebe drop her teapot , Bacchus take a lovely roll on his barrel , and Mrs Juno rap the impertinent Owlsdark on the head with Jove 's ruler .
While the audience file out to supper in the hall , the stage be a scene of dire confusion a god and goddess , farmer and baron , maid and carpenter , congratulate one another on the success of their labour .
Assuming various costume , actor and actress soon join their guest , to sip bounteous draught of praise with their coffee , and cool their modest blush with ice-cream .
Mrs Meg be a proud and happy woman when Miss Cameron come to her a she sit by Josie , with Demi serve both , and say , so cordially that it be impossible to doubt the sincerity of her welcome word : ` Mrs Brooke , I no longer wonder where your child get their talent .
I make my compliment to the Baron and next summer you must let me have little `` Dolly '' a a pupil when we be at the beach . '
One can easily imagine how this offer be receive , as well a the friendly commendation bestow by the same kind critic on the work of Beaumont and Fletcher , who hasten to explain that this trifle be only an attempt to make nature and art go hand in hand , with little help from fine writing or impose scenery .
Everybody be in the happy mood , especially ` little Dolly ' , who dance like a will-o ' - the-wisp with light-footed Mercury and Apollo a he promenade with the Marquise on his arm , who seem to have leave her coquetry in the green room with her rouge .
When all be over , Mrs Juno say to Jove , to whose arm she cling a they trudge home along the snowy path : ` Fritz dear , Christmas be a good time for new resolution , and I 've make one never to be impatient or fretful with my beloved husband again .
I know I be , though you wo n't own it ; but Laurie 's fun have some truth in it , and I felt hit in a tender spot .
Henceforth I be a model wife , else I do n't deserve the dear , best man ever bear ' ; and be in a dramatic mood , Mrs Juno tenderly embrace her excellent Jove in the moonlight , to the great amusement of sundry lingerer behind them .
So all three play might be consider success , and that merry Christmas night a memorable one in the March family ; for Demi get an unspoken question answer , Josie 's fond wish be grant , and , thanks to Professor Owlsdark 's jest , Mrs Jo make Professor Bhaer 's busy life quite a bed of rose by the keep of her resolution .
A few day later she have her reward for this burst of virtue in Dan 's letter , which set her fear at rest and make her very happy , though she be unable to tell him so , because he send her no address .
Chapter 15 .
WAITING ` My wife , I have bad news for thee , ' say Professor Bhaer , come in one day early in January .
` Please tell it at once .
I ca n't bear to wait , Fritz , ' cry Mrs Jo , drop her work and stand up as if to take the shot bravely .
` But we must wait and hope , heart 's - dearest .
Come and let u bear it together .
Emil 's ship be lose , and a yet no news of him . '
It be well Mr Bhaer have take his wife into his strong arm , for she look ready to drop , but bore up after a moment , and sit by her good man , hear all that there be to tell .
Tidings have be send to the shipowner at Hamburg by some of the survivor , and telegraph at once by Franz to his uncle .
As one boat-load be safe , there be hope that others might also escape , though the gale have send two to the bottom .
A swift-sailing steamer have bring these scanty news , and happy one might come at any hour ; but kind Franz have not add that the sailor report the captain 's boat a undoubtedly wreck by the fall mast , since the smoke hide it escape , and the gale soon drive all far asunder .
But this sad rumour reach Plumfield in time ; and deep be the mourning for the happyhearted Commodore , never to come singing home again .
Mrs Jo refuse to believe it , stoutly insist that Emil would outlive any storm and yet turn up safe and gay .
It be well she cling to this hopeful view , for poor Mr Bhaer be much afflict by the loss of his boy , because his sister 's son have be his so long he scarcely know a different love for his very own .
Now be a chance for Mrs Juno to keep her word ; and she do , speak cheerily of Emil , even when hope wax faint and her heart be heavy .
If anything could comfort the Bhaers for the loss of one boy , it would have be the affection and sorrow show by all the rest .
Franz keep the cable busy with his varying message , Nat send love letter from Leipzig , and Tom harass the shipping agent for news .
Even busy Jack write them with unusual warmth ; Dolly and George come often , bear the lovely flower and the dainty bon-bons to cheer Mrs Bhaer and sweeten Josie 's grief ; while good-hearted Ned travel all the way from Chicago to press their hand and say , with a tear in his eye : ' I be so anxious to hear all about the dear old boy , I could n't keep away . '
` That 's right comfortable , and show me that if I do n't teach my boy anything else , I do give them the brotherly love that will make them stand by one another all their life , ' say Mrs Jo , when he have go .
Rob answer ream of sympathize letter , which show how many friend they have ; and the kindly praise of the lost man would have make Emil a hero and a saint , have they all be true .
The elder bore it quietly , have learn submission in life 's hard school ; but the young people rebel ; some hop against hope and keep up , others despair at once , and little Josie , Emil 's pet cousin and playmate , be so broken-hearted nothing could comfort her .
Nan dose in vain , Daisy 's cheerful word go by like the wind , and Bess 's device to amuse her all fail utterly .
To cry in mother 's arm and talk about the wreck , which haunt her even in her sleep , be all she care to do ; and Mrs Meg be get anxious when Miss Cameron send Josie a kind note bidding her learn bravely her first lesson in real tragedy , and be like the self-sacrificing heroine she love to act .
That do the little girl good , and she make an effort in which Teddy and Octoo help her much ; for the boy be deeply impress by this sudden eclipse of the firefly whose light and life all miss when they be go , and lure her out every day for long drive behind the black mare , who shake her silvery bell till they make such merry music Josie could not help listen to it , and whisk her over the snowy road at a pace which set the blood dancing in her vein and send her home strengthen and comfort by sunshine , fresh air , and congenial society -- three aid young sufferer seldom can resist .
As Emil be help nurse Captain Hardy , safe and well , aboard the ship , all this sorrow would seem waste ; but it be not , for it draw many heart more closely together by a common grief , teach some patience , some sympathy , some regret for fault that lie heavy on the conscience when the one sin against be go , and all of them the solemn lesson to be ready when the summons come .
A hush lay over Plumfield for week , and the studious face on the hill reflect the sadness of those in the valley .
Sacred music sound from Parnassus to comfort all who hear ; the brown cottage be beseiged with gift for the little mourner , and Emil 's flag hung at half-mast on the roof where he last sat with Mrs Jo .
So the week go heavily by till suddenly , like a thunderbolt out of a clear sky , come the news , ` All safe , letter on the way . '
Then up go the flag , out ring the college bell , bang go Teddy 's long-unused cannon , and a chorus of happy voice cry ` Thank God ' , a people go about , laugh , cry , and embrace one another in a rapture of delight .
By and by the longed-for letter come , and all the story of the wreck be tell ; briefly by Emil , eloquently by Mrs Hardy , gratefully by the captain , while Mary add a few tender word that go straight to their heart and seem the sweet of all .
Never be letter so read , pass round , admire , and cry over a these ; for Mrs Jo carry them in her pocket when Mr Bhaer do not have them in his , and both take a look at them when they say their prayer at night .
Now the Professor be heard hum like a big bee again a he go to his class , and the line smooth out of Mother Bhaer 's forehead , while she write this real story to anxious friend and let her romance wait .
Now message of congratulation flow in , and beam face show everywhere .
Rob amaze his parent by produce a poem which be remarkably good for one of his year , and Demi set it to music that it might be sing when the sailor boy return .
Teddy stand on his head literally , and tore about the neighbourhood on Octoo , like a second Paul Revere -- only his tidings be good .
But best of all , little Josie lift up her head a the snowdrop do , and begin to bloom again , grow tall and quiet , with the shadow of past sorrow to tone down her former vivacity and show that she have learn a lesson in try to act well her part on the real stage , where all have to take their share in the great drama of life .
Now another sort of wait begin ; for the traveller be on their way to Hamburg , and would stay there awhile before coming home , a Uncle Hermann own the Brenda , and the captain must report to him .
Emil must remain to Franz 's wedding , defer till now because of the season of mourning , so happily end .
These plan be doubly welcome and pleasant after the troublous time which go before , and no spring ever seem so beautiful a this one ; for , a Teddy put it : ` Now be the winter of our discontent Made glorious by these son of Bhaer ! '
Franz and Emil be regard in the light of elder brother by the real ` son of Bhaer ' .
There be great scrubbing and dusting among the matron a they set their house in order not only for Class Day , but to receive the bride and groom , who be to come to them for the honeymoon trip .
Great plan be make , gift prepare , and much joy felt at the prospect of see Franz again ; though Emil , who be to accompany them , would be the great hero .
Little do the dear souls dream what a surprise be in store for them , a they innocently lay their plan and wish all the boy could be there to welcome home their eldest and their Casablanca .
While they wait and work so happily , let u see how our other absent boy be fare a they too wait and work and hope for good day .
Nat be toil steadily along the path he have wisely choose , though it be by no mean strew with flower -- quite thorny be it , in fact , and hard to travel , after the taste of ease and pleasure he have get when nibble at forbidden fruit .
But his crop of wild oat be a light one , and he resolutely reap what he have sow , find some good wheat among the tare .
He taught by day ; he fiddle night after night in the dingy little theatre , and he study so diligently that his master be well pleased , and keep him in mind a one to whom preferment be due , if any chance occur .
Gay friend forget him ; but the old one stand fast , and cheer him up when Heimweh and weariness make him sad .
As spring come on thing mend -- expense grow less , work pleasanter , and life more bearable than when wintry storm beat on his thinly clad back , and frost pinch the toe that patiently trudge in old boot .
No debt burden him ; the year of absence be nearly over ; and if he choose to stay , Herr Bergmann have hope for him that would bring independence for a time at least .
So he walk under the linden with a light heart , and in the May evening go about the city with a band of stroll student , make music before house where he use to sit a guest .
No one recognize him in the darkness , though old friend often listen to the band ; and once Minna throw him money , which he humbly receive a part of his penance , be morbid on the subject of his sin .
His reward come sooner than he expect , and be great than he deserve , he think , though his heart leap with joy when his master one day inform him that he be choose , with several other of his most promising pupil , to join the musical society which be to take part in the great festival in London the next July .
Here be not only honour for the violinist but happiness for the man , a it bring him nearer home , and would open a chance of further promotion and profit in his chosen profession .
` Make thyself useful to Bachmeister there in London with thy English , and if all go well with him , he will be glad to take thee to America , whither he go in the early autumn for winter concert .
Thou hast do well these last month , and I have hope of thee . '
As the great Bergmann seldom praise his pupil , these word fill Nat 's soul with pride and joy , and he work yet more diligently than before to fulfil his master 's prophecy .
He think the trip to England happiness enough , but find room for more when , early in June , Franz and Emil pay him a fly visit , bring all sort of good news , kind wish , and comfortable gift for the lonely fellow , who could have fall on their neck and cry like a girl at see his old mate again .
How glad he be to be find in his little room busy at his proper work , not live like an idle gentleman on borrow money !
How proud he be to tell his plan , assure them that he have no debt , and receive their praise for his improvement in music , their respect for his economy and steadfastness in well-doing !
How relieve when , have honestly confess his shortcoming , they only laugh , and own that they also have know like experience , and be the wiser for them .
He be to go to the wedding late in June , and join his comrade in London .
As best man , he could not refuse the new suit Franz insist on order for him ; and a cheque from home about that time make him feel like a millionaire -- and a happy one ; for this be accompany by such kind letter full of delight in his success , he felt that he have earn it , and wait for his joyful holiday with the impatience of a boy .
Dan meantime be also count the week till August , when he would be free .
But neither marriage-bells nor festival music await him ; no friend would greet him a he leave the prison ; no hopeful prospect lay before him ; no happy home-going be to be his .
Yet his success be far great than Nat 's , though only God and one good man saw it .
It be a hard-won battle ; but he would never have to fight so terrible a one again ; for though enemy would still assail from within and from without , he have find the little guide-book that Christian carry in his bosom , and Love , Penitence , and Prayer , the three sweet sister , have give him the armour which would keep him safe .
He have not learn to wear it yet , and chafed against it , though he felt it value , thanks to the faithful friend who have stand by him all that bitter year .
Soon he be to be free again , worn and scar in the fray , but out among men in the blessed sun and air .
When he think of it Dan felt a if he could not wait , but must burst that narrow cell and fly away , a the caddis-worms he use to watch by the brookside shed their stony coffin , to climb the fern and soar into the sky .
Night after night he lull himself to sleep with plan how , when he have see Mary Mason accord to his promise , he would steer straight for his old friend , the Indians , and in the wilderness hide his disgrace and heal his wound .
Working to save the many would atone for the sin of kill one , he think ; and the old free life would keep him safe from the temptation that beset him in city .
` By and by , when I 'm all right again , and have something to tell that I 'm not ashamed of , I 'll go home , ' he say , with a quicker beat of the impetuous heart that long to be there so intensely , he find it as hard to curb a one of his unbroken horse on the plain .
` Not yet .
I must get over this first .
They 'd see and smell and feel the prison taint on me , if I go now , and I could n't look them in the face and hide the truth .
I ca n't lose Ted 's love , Mother Bhaer 's confidence , and the respect of the girl , for they do respect my strength , anyway ; but now they would n't touch me . '
And poor Dan look with a shudder at the brown fist he clench involuntarily a he remember what it have do since a certain little white hand have lay in it confidingly .
` I 'll make 'em proud of me yet ; and no one shall ever know of this awful year .
I can wipe it out , and I will , so help me God ! '
And the clenched hand be hold up a if to take a solemn oath that this lost year should yet be make good , if resolution and repentance could work the miracle .
Chapter 16 .
IN THE TENNIS-COURT Athletic sport be in high favour at Plumfield ; and the river where the old punt use to wabble about with a cargo of small boy , or echo to the shrill scream of little girl try to get lily , now be alive with boat of all kind , from the slender wherry to the trim pleasure-craft , gay with cushion , awning , and flutter pennon .
Everyone row , and the girl as well a the youth have their race , and develop their muscle in the most scientific manner .
The large , level meadow near the old willow be now the college playground , and here baseball battle rag with fury , vary by football , leaping , and kindred sport fit to split the finger , break the rib , and strain the back of the too ambitious participant .
The gentler pastime of the damsel be at a safe distance from this Champ de Mars ; croquet mallet click under the elm that fringe the field , racket rise and fell energetically in several tennis-courts , and gate of different height be handy to practise the graceful bound by which every girl expect to save her life some day when the mad bull , which be always come but never seem to arrive , should be bellow at her heel .
One of these tennis ground be call ` Jo 's Court ' , and here the little lady rule like a queen ; for she be fond of the game , and be bent on develop her small self to the high degree of perfection , she be to be find at every leisure moment with some victim hard at it .
On a certain pleasant Saturday afternoon she have be play with Bess and beat her ; for , though more graceful , the Princess be less active than her cousin , and cultivate her rose by quieter method .
` Oh dear !
you be tire , and every bless boy be at that stupid baseball match .
` What shall I do ? '
sigh Josie , push back the great red hat she wear , and gaze sadly round her for more world to conquer .
` I 'll play presently , when I 'm a little cooler .
But it be dull work for me , a I never win , ' answered Bess , fan herself with a large leaf .
Josie be about to sit down beside her on the rustic seat and wait , when her quick eye saw afar off two manly form array in white flannel ; their blue leg seem bear them towards the battle go on in the distance ; but they never reach the fray ; for with a cry of joy , Jo race away to meet them , bent on secure this heaven-sent reinforcement .
Both pause a she come fly up , and both raise their hat ; but oh , the difference there be in the salute !
The stout youth pull his off lazily and put it on again at once , a if glad to get the duty over ; the slender be , with the crimson tie , lift his with a graceful bend , and hold it aloft while he accost the rosy , breathless maid , thus permit her to see his raven lock smoothly part , with one little curl upon the brow .
Dolly pride himself upon that bow , and practise it before his glass , but do not bestow it upon all alike , regard it a a work of art , fit only for the fair and most favour of his female admirer ; for he be a pretty youth , and fancy himself an Adonis .
Eager Josie evidently do not appreciate the honour he do her , for with a nod she beg them both to ` come along and play tennis , not go and get all hot and dirty with the boy ' .
These two adjective win the day ; for Stuffy be already warm than he like to be , and Dolly have on a new suit which he desire to keep immaculate as long a possible , conscious that it be very become .
` Charmed to oblige , ' answer the polite one , with another bend .
` You play , I 'll rest , ' add the fat boy , yearn for repose and gentle converse with the Princess in the cooling shade .
` Well , you can comfort Bess , for I 've beat her all to bit and she need amuse .
I know you 've get something nice in your pocket , George ; give her some , and ` Dolphus can have her racket .
Now then , fly round ' ; and drive her prey before her , Josie return in triumph to the court .
Casting himself ponderously upon the bench , which creak under his weight , Stuffy -- a we will continue to call him , though no one else dare to use the old name now -- promptly produce the box of confectionery , without which he never travel far , and regale Bess with candied violet and other dainty , while Dolly work hard to hold his own against a most accomplished antagonist .
He would have beat her if an unlucky stumble , which produce an unsightly stain upon the knee of those new short , have not distract his mind and make him careless .
Much elate at her victory , Josie permit him to rest , and offer ironical consolation for the mishap which evidently weigh upon his mind .
` Do n't be an old Betty ; it can be clean .
You must have be a cat in some former state , you be so troubled about dirt ; or a tailor , and live for clothes . '
` Come now , do n't hit a fellow when he be down , ' respond Dolly from the grass where he and Stuffy now lay to make room for both girl on the seat .
One handkerchief be spread under him , and his elbow lean upon another , while his eye be sadly fix upon the green and brown spot which afflict him . '
I like to be neat ; do n't think it civil to cut about in old shoe and grey flannel shirt before lady .
Our fellow be gentleman , and dress a such , ' he add , rather nettle at the word ` tailor ' ; for he owe one of those too attractive person an uncomfortably big bill .
` So be ours ; but good clothes alone do n't make a gentleman here .
We require a good deal more , ' flash Josie , in arm at once to defend her college .
` You will hear of some of the men in `` old boot and grey flannel '' when you and your fine gentleman be twiddle your tie and scent your hair in obscurity .
I like old boot and wear them , and I hate dandy ; do n't you , Bess ? '
` Not when they be kind to me , and belong to our old set , ' answered Bess , with a nod of thanks to Dolly , who be carefully remove an inquisitive caterpillar from one of her little russet shoe . '
I like a lady who be always polite , and do n't snap a man 's head off if he have a mind of his own ; do n't you , George ? '
ask Dolly , with his best smile for Bess and a Harvard stare of disapprobation for Josie .
A tranquil snore be Stuffy 's sole reply , and a general laugh restore peace for the moment .
But Josie love to harass the lord of creation who assert themselves too much , and bid her time for another attack till she have secure more tennis .
She get another game ; for Dolly be a sworn knight of dame , so he obey her call , leave Bess to sketch George a he lay upon his back , his stout leg cross , and his round red face partially eclipse by his hat .
Josie get beaten this time and come back rather cross , so she wake the peaceful sleeper by tickle his nose with a straw till he sneeze himself into a sitting posture , and look wrathfully about for ` that confound fly ' .
` Come , sit up and let u have a little elegant conversation ; you `` howl swell '' ought to improve our mind and manner , for we be only poor `` country girl in dowdy gown and hat '' , ' begin the gad-fly , open the battle with a sly quotation from one of Dolly 's unfortunate speech about certain studious damsel who care more for book than finery . '
I do n't mean you !
Your gown be all right , and those hat the late thing out , ' begin poor ` Dolphus , convict himself by the incautious exclamation .
` Caught you that time ; I think you fellow be all gentleman , civil as well a nice .
But you be always sneer at girl who do n't dress well and that be a very unmanly thing to do ; my mother say so ' ; and Josie felt that she have dealt a shrewd blow at the elegant youth who bow at many shrine if they be well-decorated one .
` Got you there , old boy , and she 's right .
You never hear me talk about clothes and such twaddle , ' say Stuffy , suppress a yawn , and feel for another bon-bon wherewith to refresh himself .
` You talk about eating , and that be even bad for a man .
You will marry a cook and keep a restaurant some day , ' laugh Josie , down on him at once .
This fearful prediction keep him silent for several moment ; but Dolly rally , and wisely change the subject , carry war into the enemy 's camp .
` As you want u to improve your manner , allow me to say that young lady in good society do n't make personal remark or deliver lecture .
Little girl who be not out do it , and think it witty ; but I assure you it 's not good form . '
Josie pause a moment to recover from the shock of be call ' a little girl ' , when all the honour of her fourteenth birthday be fresh upon her ; and Bess say , in the lofty tone which be infinitely more crushing than Jo 's impertinence : ` That be true ; but we have live all our life with superior people , so we have no society talk like your young lady .
We be so accustomed to sensible conversation , and help one another by tell our fault , that we have no gossip to offer you . '
When the Princess reprove , the boy seldom resent it ; so Dolly hold his peace , and Josie burst out , follow her cousin 's lead , which she think a happy one : ` Our boy like to have u talk with them , and take kindly any hint we give .
They do n't think they know everything and be quite perfect at eighteen , a I 've observe the Harvard men do , especially the very young one . '
Josie take immense satisfaction in that return shot ; and Dolly show that he be hit , by the nettled tone in which he answer , with a supercilious glance at the hot , dusty , and noisy crowd on the baseball ground : ` The class of fellow you have here need all the polish and culture you can give them ; and I 'm glad they get it .
Our men be largely from the best family all over the country , so we do n't need girl to teach u anything . '
` It 's a pity you do n't have more of such `` fellow '' a ours .
They value and use well what college give them , and be n't satisfy to slip through , get all the fun they can and shirk the work .
Oh , I 've hear you `` men '' talk , and hear your father say they wish they have n't waste time and money just that you might say you 'd be through college .
As for the girl , you 'll be much good off in all way when they do get in , and keep you lazy thing up to the mark , a we do here . '
` If you have such a poor opinion of u , why do you wear our colour ? '
ask Dolly , painfully conscious that he be not improve the advantage his Alma Mater offer him , but bound to defend her . '
I do n't ; my hat be scarlet , not crimson .
Much you know about a colour , ' scoff Josie . '
I know that a cross cow would soon set you scamper , if you flaunt that red tile under her nose , ' retort Dolly .
` I 'm ready for her .
Can your fine young lady do this ?
or you either ? '
and burn to display her late accomplishment , Josie run to the near gate , put one hand on the top rail , and vault over as lightly a a bird .
Bess shake her head , and Stuffy languidly applaud ; but Dolly scorn to be brave by a girl , take a fly leap and land on his foot beside Josie , say calmly : ` Can you do that ? '
` Not yet ; but I will by and by . '
As his foe look a little crestfallen , Dolly relent , and affably add sundry feat of a like nature , quite unconscious that he have fall into a dreadful snare ; for the dull red paint on the gate , not be use to such vigorous handling , come off in streak upon his shoulder when he turn a backward swing and come up smile , to be reward with the aggravate remark : ` If you want to know what crimson be , look at your back ; it 's nicely stamp on and wo n't wash out , I think . '
` The deuce it wo n't ! '
cry Dolly , try to get an impossible view , and give it up in great disgust . '
I guess we 'd well be go , Dolf , ' say peaceable Stuffy , feel that it would be wise to retreat before another skirmish take place , a his side seem to be get the bad of it .
` Do n't hurry , I beg ; stay and rest ; you must need it after the tremendous amount of brain work you 've do this week .
It be time for our Greek .
Come , Bess .
Good afternoon , gentleman . '
And , with a sweeping courtesy , Josie lead the way , with her hat belligerently cock up , and her racket borne like a triumphal banner over one shoulder ; for have have the last word , she felt that she could retire with the honour of war .
Dolly give Bess his best bow , with the chill on ; and Stuffy subside luxuriously , with his leg in the air , murmur in a dreamy tone : ` Little Jo be as cross a two stick today .
I 'm go in for another nap : too hot to play anything . '
` So it be .
Wonder if Spitfire be right about these beastly spot ? '
And Dolly sit down to try dry cleanse with one of his handkerchief .
` Asleep ? '
he ask , after a few moment of this cheerful occupation , fear that his chum might be too comfortable when he be in a fume himself .
` No .
I be think that Jo be n't far wrong about shirk .
'T be a shame to get so little do , when we ought to be grind like Morton and Torry and that lot .
I never want to go to college ; but my governor make me .
Much good it will do either of u ! '
answer Stuffy , with a groan ; for he hat work , and saw two more long year of it before him .
` Gives a man prestige , you know .
No need to dig .
I mean to have a gay old time , and be a `` howling swell '' , if I choose .
Between you and me though , it would be no end jolly to have the girl along .
Study be hang !
But if we 've get to turn the grindstone , it would be mighty nice to have some of the little dear to lend a hand .
Would n't it now ? '
` I 'd like three this minute -- one to fan me , one to kiss me , and one to give me some iced lemonade ! '
sigh Stuffy , with a yearn glance towards the house , whence no succour appear .
` How would root-beer do ? '
ask a voice behind them , which make Dolly spring to his foot and Stuffy roll over like a startled porpoise .
Sitting on the stile that cross the wall near by be Mrs Jo , with two jug slung over her shoulder by a strap , several tin mug in her hand , and an old-fashioned sun-bonnet on her head . '
I know the boy would be kill themselves with ice-water ; so I stroll down with some of my good , wholesome beer .
They drink like fish .
But Silas be with me ; so my cruse still hold out .
Have some ? '
` Yes , thanks , very much .
Let u pour it . '
And Dolly hold the cup while Stuffy joyfully fill it ; both very grateful , but rather afraid she have hear what go before the wish she fulfil .
She prove that she have by say , a they stand drink her health , while she sit between them , look like a middle-aged vivandiere , with her jug and mug : ' I be glad to hear you say you would like to have girl at your college ; but I hope you will learn to speak more respectfully of them before they come ; for that will be the first lesson they will teach you . '
` Really , ma'am , I be only joke , ' begin Stuffy , gulp down his beer in a hurry .
` So be I. I 'm sure I -- I 'm devote to 'em , ' stutter Dolly , panic-stricken ; for he saw that he be in for a lecture of some sort .
` Not in the right way .
Frivolous girl may like to be call `` little dear '' and thing of that sort ; but the girl who love study wish to be treat like reasonable being , not dolls to flirt with .
Yes , I 'm go to preach ; that 's my business ; so stand up and take it like men . '
Mrs Jo laugh ; but she be in earnest ; for by various hint and sign during the past winter she know that the boy be begin to ` see life ' in the way she especially disapprove .
Both be far from home , have money enough to waste , and be as inexperienced , curious , and credulous a most lad of their age .
Not fond of book , therefore without the safeguard which keep many studious fellow out of harm ; one self-indulgent , indolent , and so used to luxury that pampering of the sens be an easy thing ; the other vain , a all comely boy be , full of conceit , and so eager to find favour in the eye of his comrade that he be ready for anything which would secure it .
These trait and foible make both peculiarly liable to the temptation which assail pleasure-loving and weak-willed boy .
Mrs Jo know them well , and have drop many a warning word since they go to college ; but till lately they seem not to understand some of her friendly hint ; now she be sure they would , and meant to speak out : for long experience with boy make her both bold and skilful in handle some of the danger usually leave to silence , till it be too late for anything but pity and reproach .
` I 'm go to talk to you like a mother , because yours be far away ; and there be thing that mother can manage best , if they do their duty , ' she solemnly begin from the depth of the sunbonnet .
` Great Scott !
We 're in for it now ! '
think Dolly , in secret dismay ; while Stuffy get the first blow by try to sustain himself with another mug of beer .
` That wo n't hurt you ; but I must warn you about drink other thing , George .
Overeating be an old story ; and a few more fit of illness will teach you to be wise .
But drinking be a more serious thing , and lead to worse harm than any that can afflict your body alone .
I hear you talk about wine a if you know them and care more for them than a boy should ; and several time I 've hear joke that mean mischief .
For heaven 's sake , do n't begin to play with this dangerous taste `` for fun '' , a you say , or because it 's the fashion , and the other fellow do .
Stop at once , and learn that temperance in all thing be the only safe rule . '
` Upon my honour , I only take wine and iron .
I need a tonic , mother say , to repair the waste of brain-tissue while I 'm study , ' protest Stuffy , put down the mug a if it burn his finger .
` Good beef and oatmeal will repair your tissue much good than any tonic of that sort .
Work and plain fare be what you want ; and I wish I have you here for a few month out of harm 's way .
I 'd Banting you , and fit you to run without puffing , and get on without four or five meal a day .
What an absurd hand that be for a man !
You ought to be ashamed of it ! '
And Mrs Jo catch up the plump fist , with deep dimple at each knuckle , which be fumble distressfully at the buckle of the belt girt about a waist far too large for a youth of his age . '
I ca n't help it -- we all grow fat ; it 's in the family , ' say Stuffy in self-defence .
` All the more reason you should live carefully .
Do you want to die early , or be an invalid all your life ? '
` No , ma'am ! '
Stuffy look so scared that Mrs Jo could not be hard upon his budding sin , for they lay at his overindulgent mother 's door line in a great measure ; so she soften the tone of her voice , and add , with a little slap on the fat hand , a she use to do when it be small enough to pilfer lump of sugar from her bowl : ` Then be careful ; for a man write his character in his face ; and you do n't want gluttony and intemperance in yours , I know . '
` I 'm sure I do n't !
Please make out a wholesome bill of fare , and I 'll stick to it , if I can .
I be get stout , and I do n't like it ; and my liver 's torpid , and I have palpitation and headache .
Overwork , mother say ; but it may be overeat . '
And Stuffy give a sigh of mingled regret for the good thing he renounce , and relief a he finish loosen his belt as soon a his hand be free . '
I will ; follow it , and in a year you 'll be a man and not a meal-bag .
Now , Dolly ' ; and Mrs Jo turn to the other culprit , who shake in his shoe and wish he have n't come .
` Are you study French as industriously a you be last winter ? '
` No ma'am ; I do n't care for it -- that be , I , I 'm busy with G-Greek just now , ' answer Dolly , begin bravely , quite in the dark a to what that odd question meant till a sudden memory make him stutter and look at his shoe with deep interest .
` Oh , he do n't study it ; only read French novel and go to the theatre when the opera bouffe be here , ' say Stuffy , innocently confirm Mrs Jo 's suspicion .
` So I understand ; and that be what I want to speak about .
Ted have a sudden desire to learn French in that way , from something you say , Dolly ; so I go myself , and be quite satisfied that it be no place for a decent boy .
Your men be out in full force ; and I be glad to see that some of the young one look as ashamed a I felt .
The old fellow enjoy it , and when we come out be wait to take those painted girl to supper .
Did you ever go with them ? '
` Once . '
` Did you like it ? '
` No 'm ; I -- I come away early , ' stammer Dolly , with a face as red a his splendid tie .
` I 'm glad you have not lose the grace of blush yet ; but you will soon , if you keep up this sort of study and forget to be ashamed .
The society of such woman will unfit you for that of good one , and lead you into trouble and sin and shame .
Oh , why do n't the city father stop that evil thing , when they know the harm it do ?
It make my heart ache to see those boy , who ought to be at home and in their bed , go off for a night of riot which would help to ruin some of them for ever . '
The youth look scar at Mrs Jo 's energetic protest against one of the fashionable pleasure of the day , and wait in conscience-stricken silence -- Stuffy glad that he never go to those gay supper , and Dolly deeply grateful that he ` come away early ' .
With a hand on either shoulder , and all the terror smooth from her brow , Mrs Jo go on in her most motherly tone , anxious to do for them what no other woman would , and do it kindly : ` My dear boy , if I do n't love you , I would not say these thing .
I know they be not pleasant ; but my conscience wo n't let me hold my peace when a word may keep you from two of the great sin that curse the world and send so many young men to destruction .
You be just begin to feel the allurement of them , and soon it will be hard to turn away .
Stop now , I beg of you , and not only save yourselves but help others by a brave example .
Come to me if thing worry you ; do n't be afraid or ashamed ; I have hear many sad confession than any you be ever likely to bring me , and be able to comfort many poor fellow , go wrong for want of a word in time .
Do this , and you will be able to kiss your mother with clean lip , and by and by have the right to ask innocent girl to love you . '
` Yes 'm , thank you .
I suppose you 're right ; but it 's pretty hard work to toe the mark when lady give you wine and gentleman take their daughter to see Aimee , ' say Dolly , foresee tribulation ahead though he know it be time to ` pull up ' .
` So it be ; but all the more honour to those who be brave and wise enough to resist public opinion , and the easy-going moral of bad or careless men and woman .
Think of the person whom you respect most , and in imitate them you will secure the respect of those who look up to you .
I 'd rather my boy should be laugh at and cold-shouldered by a hundred foolish fellow than lose what , once go , no power can give them back -- innocence and self-respect .
I do n't wonder you find it `` hard to toe the mark '' , when book , picture , ball-rooms , theatre , and street offer temptation ; yet you can resist , if you try .
Last winter Mrs Brooke use to worry about John 's be out so late reporting ; but when she speak to him about the thing he must see and hear on his way to and fro from the office at midnight , he say in his sober way , `` I know what you mean , mother ; but no fellow need to go wrong unless he want to . ''
` That 's like the Deacon ! '
exclaim Stuffy , with an approve smile on his fat face .
` I 'm glad you tell me that .
He 's right ; and it 's because he do n't want to go wrong we all respect him so , ' add Dolly , look up now with an expression which assure his Mentor that the right string have be touch , and a spirit of emulation rouse , more helpful , perhaps , than any word of hers .
Seeing this , she be satisfied , and say , a she prepare to leave the bar before which her culprit have be try and find guilty , but recommend to mercy : ` Then be to others what John be to you -- a good example .
Forgive me for trouble you , my dear lad , and remember my little preachment .
I think it will do you good , though I may never know it .
Chance word speak in kindness often help amazingly ; and that 's what old people be here for -- else their experience be of little use .
Now , come and find the young folk .
I hope I shall never have to shut the gate of Plumfield upon you , a I have on some of your `` gentleman '' .
I mean to keep my boy and girl safe if I can , and this a wholesome place where the good old-fashioned virtue be live and teach . '
Much impress by that dire threat , Dolly help her from her perch with deep respect ; and Stuffy relieve her of her empty jug , solemnly vow to abstain from all ferment beverage except root-beer , as long a feeble flesh could hold out .
Of course they make light of ` Mother Bhaer 's lecture ' when they be alone -- that be to be expect of ` men of our class ' but in their secret soul they thank her for give their boyish conscience a jog , and more than once afterward have cause to remember gratefully that half-hour in the tennis court .
Chapter 17 .
AMONG THE MAIDS Although this story be about Jo 's boy , her girl can not be neglect , because they hold a high place in this little republic , and especial care be take to fit them to play their part worthily in the great republic which offer them wider opportunity and more serious duty .
To many the social influence be the good part of the training they receive ; for education be not confine to book , and the fine character often graduate from no college , but make experience their master , and life their book .
Others care only for the mental culture , and be in danger of over-studying , under the delusion which pervade New England that learn must be have at all cost , forget that health and real wisdom be well .
A third class of ambitious girl hardly know what they want , but be hungry for whatever could fit them to face the world and earn a living , be drive by necessity , the urgency of some half-conscious talent , or the restlessness of strong young nature to break away from the narrow life which no longer satisfied .
At Plumfield all find something to help them ; for the grow institution have not yet make it rule as fix a the law of the Medes and Persians , and believe so heartily in the right of all sex , colour , creed , and rank to education , that there be room for everyone who knock , and a welcome to the shabby youth from up country , the eager girl from the West , the awkward freedman or woman from the South , or the well-born student whose poverty make this college a possibility when other door be bar .
There still be prejudice , ridicule , neglect in high place , and prophecy of failure to contend against ; but the Faculty be compose of cheerful , hopeful men and woman who have see great reform spring from small root , and after stormy season blossom beautifully , to add prosperity and honour to the nation .
So they work on steadily and bid their time , full of increase faith in their attempt a year after year their number grow , their plan succeed , and the sense of usefulness in this most vital of all profession bless them with it sweet reward .
Among the various custom which have very naturally spring up be one especially useful and interesting to ` the girl ' , a the young woman like to be call .
It all grow out of the old sewing hour still keep up by the three sister long after the little work-boxes have expand into big basket full of household mending .
They be busy woman , yet on Saturdays they try to meet in one of the three sewing-rooms ; for even classic Parnassus have it nook where Mrs Amy often sit among her servant , teach them to make and mend , thereby give them a respect for economy , since the rich lady do not scorn to darn her hose , and sew on button .
In these household retreat , with book and work , and their daughter by them , they read and sew and talk in the sweet privacy that domestic woman love , and can make so helpful by a wise mixture of cook and chemistry , table linen and theology , prosaic duty and good poetry .
Mrs Meg be the first to propose enlarge this little circle ; for a she go her motherly round among the young woman she find a sad lack of order , skill , and industry in this branch of education .
Latin , Greek , the high mathematics , and science of all sort prosper finely ; but the dust gather on the work-baskets , fray elbow go unheeded , and some of the blue stocking sadly need mending .
Anxious l the usual sneer at learned woman should apply to ` our girl ' , she gently lure two or three of the most untidy to her house , and make the hour so pleasant , the lesson so kindly , that they take the hint , be grateful for the favour , and ask to come again .
Others soon beg to make the detested weekly duty lighter by join the party , and soon it be a privilege so much desire that the old museum be refit with sewing-machines , table , rocking-chair , and a cheerful fireplace , so that , rain or shine , the needle might go on undisturbed .
Here Mrs Meg be in her glory , and stand wield her big shear like a queen a she cut out white work , fitted dress , and direct Daisy , her special aide , about the trimming of hat , and complete the lace and ribbon trifle which add grace to the simplest costume and save poor or busy girl so much money and time .
Mrs Amy contribute taste , and decide the great question of colour and complexion ; for few woman , even the most learned , be without that desire to look well which make many a plain face comely , as well a many a pretty one ugly for want of skill and knowledge of the fitness of thing .
She also take her turn to provide book for the reading , and a art be her forte she give them selection from Ruskin , Hamerton , and Mrs Jameson , who be never old .
Bess read these aloud a her contribution , and Josie take her turn at the romance , poetry , and play her uncle recommend .
Mrs Jo give little lecture on health , religion , politics , and the various question in which all should be interested , with copious extract from Miss Cobbe 's Duties of Women , Miss Brackett 's Education of American Girls , Mrs Duffy 's No Sex in Education , Mrs Woolson 's Dress Reform , and many of the other excellent book wise woman write for their sister , now that they be wake up and ask : ` What shall we do ? '
It be curious to see the prejudice melt away a ignorance be enlighten , indifference change to interest , and intelligent mind set thinking , while quick wit and lively tongue add spice to the discussion which inevitably follow .
So the foot that wear the neatly mend hose carry wise head than before , the pretty gown cover heart warm with high purpose , and the hand that drop the thimble for pen , lexicon , and celestial globe , be well fit for life 's work , whether to rock cradle , tend the sick , or help on the great work of the world .
One day a brisk discussion arise concern career for woman .
Mrs Jo have read something on the subject and ask each of the dozen girl sit about the room , what she intend to do on leave college .
The answer be a usual : ' I shall teach , help mother , study medicine , art , ' etc . ; but nearly all end with : 'Till I marry . '
` But if you do n't marry , what then ? '
ask Mrs Jo , feel like a girl again a she listen to the answer , and watch the thoughtful , gay , or eager face .
` Be old maid , I suppose .
Horrid , but inevitable , since there be so many superfluous woman , ' answer a lively lass , too pretty to fear single blessedness unless she choose it .
` It be well to consider that fact , and fit yourselves to be useful , not superfluous woman .
That class , by the way , be largely make up of widow , I find ; so do n't consider it a slur on maidenhood . '
` That 's a comfort !
Old maid be n't sneer at half as much a they use to be , since some of them have grow famous and prove that woman be n't a half but a whole human be , and can stand alone . '
` Do n't like it all the same .
We ca n't all be like Miss Nightingale , Miss Phelps , and the rest . '
So what can we do but sit in a corner and look on ? '
ask a plain girl with a dissatisfied expression .
` Cultivate cheerfulness and content , if nothing else .
But there be so many little odd job wait to be do that nobody need `` sit idle and look on '' , unless she choose , ' say Mrs Meg , with a smile , lay on the girl 's head the new hat she have just trim .
` Thank you very much .
Yes , Mrs Brooke , I see ; it 's a little job , but it make me neat and happy -- and grateful , ' she add , look up with bright eye a she accept the labour of love and the lesson as sweetly a they be give .
` One of the best and most beloved woman I know have be do odd job for the Lord for year , and will keep at it till her dear hand be fold in her coffin .
All sort of thing she do -- pick up neglected child and put them in safe home , save lose girl , nurse poor woman in trouble , sews , knit , trot , begs , work for the poor day after day with no reward but the thanks of the needy , the love and honour of the rich who make Saint Matilda their almoner .
That 's a life worth living ; and I think that quiet little woman will get a high seat in Heaven than many of those of whom the world have hear . ' '
I know it 's lovely , Mrs Bhaer ; but it 's dull for young folk .
We do want a little fun before we buckle to , ' say a Western girl with a wide-awake face .
` Have your fun , my dear ; but if you must earn your bread , try to make it sweet with cheerfulness , not bitter with the daily regret that it be n't cake .
I use to think mine be a very hard fate because I have to amuse a somewhat fretful old lady ; but the book I read in that lonely library have be of immense use to me since , and the dear old soul bequeath me Plumfield for my `` cheerful service and affectionate care '' .
I do n't deserve it , but I do use to try to be jolly and kind , and get as much honey out of duty a I could , thanks to my dear mother 's help and advice . '
` Gracious !
if I could earn a place like this , I 'd sing all day and be an angel ; but you have to take your chance , and get nothing for your pain , perhaps .
I never do , ' say the Westerner , who have a hard time with small mean and large aspiration .
` Do n't do it for the reward ; but be sure it will come , though not in the shape you expect .
I work hard for fame and money one winter ; but I get neither , and be much disappointed .
A year afterwards I find I have earn two prize : skill with my pen , and Professor Bhaer . '
Mrs Jo 's laugh be echo blithely by the girl , who like to have these conversation enliven by illustration from life .
` You be a very lucky woman , ' begin the discontented damsel , whose soul soar above new hat , welcome a they be , but do not quite know where to steer .
` Yet her name use to be `` Luckless Jo '' , and she never have what she want till she have give up hop for it , ' say Mrs Meg .
` I 'll give up hop , then , right away , and see if my wish will come .
I only want to help my folk , and get a good school . '
` Take this proverb for your guide : `` Get the distaff ready , and the Lord will send the flax '' , ' answer Mrs Jo .
` We 'd better all do that , if we be to be spinster , ' say the pretty one , add gaily , ' I think I should like it , on the whole -- they be so independent .
My Aunt Jenny can do just what she like , and ask no one 's leave ; but Ma have to consult Pa about everything .
Yes , I 'll give you my chance , Sally , and be a `` superfluum '' , a Mr Plock say . '
` You 'll be one of the first to go into bondage , see if you be n't .
Much oblige , all the same . '
` Well , I 'll get my distaff ready , and take whatever flax the Fates send -- single , or double-twisted , a the power please . '
` That be the right spirit , Nelly .
Keep it up , and see how happy life will be with a brave heart , a willing hand , and plenty to do . '
` No one object to plenty of domestic work or fashionable pleasure , I find ; but the minute we begin to study , people tell u we ca n't bear it , and warn u to be very careful .
I 've try the other thing , and get so tired I come to college ; though my people predict nervous exhaustion and an early death .
Do you think there be any danger ? '
ask a stately girl , with an anxious glance at the bloom face reflect in the mirror opposite .
` Are you strong or weak than when you come two year ago , Miss Winthrop ? '
` Stronger in body , and much happy in mind .
I think I be die of ennui ; but the doctor call it inherit delicacy of constitution .
That be why mamma be so anxious , and I wish not to go too fast . '
` Do n't worry , my dear ; that active brain of yours be starve for good food ; it have plenty now , and plain living suit you good than luxury and dissipation .
It be all nonsense about girl not be able to study as well a boy .
Neither can bear cramming ; but with proper care both be good for it ; so enjoy the life your instinct lead you to , and we will prove that wise headwork be a good cure for that sort of delicacy than tonic , and novel on the sofa , where far too many of our girl go to wreck nowadays .
They burn the candle at both end ; and when they break down they blame the book , not the ball . '
` Dr Nan be tell me about a patient of hers who think she have heart-complaint , till Nan make her take off her corset , stop her coffee and dance all night , and make her eat , sleep , walk , and live regularly for a time ; and now she 's a brilliant cure .
Common sense versus custom , Nan say . '
` I 've have no headache since I come here , and can do twice as much studying a I do at home .
It 's the air , I think , and the fun of go ahead of the boy , ' say another girl , tap her big forehead with her thimble , a if the lively brain inside be in good working order and enjoy the daily gymnastics she give it .
` Quality , not quantity , win the day , you know .
Our brain may be small , but I do n't see that they fall short of what be require of them ; and if I 'm not mistake , the largest-headed man in our class be the dull , ' say Nelly , with a solemn air which produce a gale of merriment ; for all knew that the young Goliath she mention have be metaphorically slay by this quick-witted David on many a battle-field , to the great disgust of himself and his mate .
` Mrs Brooke , do I gauge on the right or the wrong side ? '
ask the best Greek scholar of her class , eye a black silk apron with a lost expression .
` The right , Miss Pierson ; and leave a space between the tuck ; it look pretty so . '
` I 'll never make another ; but it will save my dress from ink-stains , so I 'm glad I 've get it ' ; and the erudite Miss Pierson labour on , find it a hard task than any Greek root she ever dig up .
` We paper-stainers must learn how to make shield , or we be lose .
I 'll give you a pattern of the pinafore I use to wear in my `` blood-and-thunder day '' , a we call them , ' say Mrs Jo , try to remember what become of the old tin-kitchen which use to hold her work .
` Speaking of writer reminds me that my ambition be to be a George Eliot , and thrill the world !
It must be so splendid to know that one have such power , and to hear people own that one possess a `` masculine intellect '' !
I do n't care for most woman 's novel , but hers be immense ; do n't you think so , Mrs Bhaer ? '
ask the girl with the big forehead , and torn braid on her skirt .
` Yes ; but they do n't thrill me a little Charlotte Bronte 's book do .
The brain be there , but the heart seem leave out .
I admire , but I do n't love , George Eliot ; and her life be far sad to me than Miss Bronte 's , because , in spite of the genius , love , and fame , she miss the light without which no soul be truly great , good , or happy . '
` Yes 'm , I know ; but still it 's so romantic and sort of new and mysterious , and she be great in one sense .
Her nerve and dyspepsia do rather destroy the illusion ; but I adore famous people and mean to go and see all I can scare up in London some day . '
` You will find some of the best of them busy about just the work I recommend to you ; and if you want to see a great lady , I 'll tell you that Mrs Laurence mean to bring one here today .
Lady Abercrombie be lunch with her , and after see the college be to call on u .
She especially want to see our sewing-school , a she be interested in thing of this sort , and get them up at home . '
` Bless me !
I always imagine lord and lady do nothing but ride round in a coach and six , go to ball , and be present to the Queen in cocked hat , and train and feather , ' exclaim an artless young person from the wild of Maine , whither an illustrated paper occasionally wander .
` Not at all ; Lord Abercrombie be over here study up our American prison system , and my lady be busy with the school -- both very high-born , but the simple and most sensible people I 've meet this long time .
They be neither of them young nor handsome , and dress plainly ; so do n't expect anything splendid .
Mr Laurence be tell me last night about a friend of his who meet my lord in the hall , and owe to a rough greatcoat and a red face , mistake him for a coachman , and say : `` Now , my man , what do you want here ? ''
Lord Abercrombie mildly mention who he be , and that he have come to dinner .
And the poor host be much afflict , say afterward : `` Why do n't he wear his star and garter ?
then a fellow would know he be a lord . '' '
The girl laugh again , and a general rustle betray that each be prink a bit before the titled guest arrive .
Even Mrs Jo settle her collar , and Mrs Meg felt if her cap be right , while Bess shake out her curl and Josie boldly consult the glass ; for they be woman , in spite of philosophy and philanthropy .
` Shall we all rise ? '
ask one girl , deeply impress by the impending honour .
` It would be courteous . '
` Shall we shake hand ? '
` No , I 'll present you en masse , and your pleasant face will be introduction enough . ' '
I wish I 'd wear my best dress .
Ought to have tell u , ' whisper Sally .
` Wo n't my folk be surprise when I tell them we have have a real lady to call on u ? '
say another .
` Do n't look a if you 'd never see a gentlewoman before , Milly .
We be not all fresh from the wilderness , ' add the stately damsel who , have Mayflower ancestor , felt that she be the equal of all the crowned head of Europe .
` Hush , she 's come !
Oh , my heart , what a bonnet ! '
cry the gay girl in a stage whisper ; and every eye be demurely fix upon the busy hand a the door open to admit Mrs Laurence and her guest .
It be rather a shock to find , after the general introduction be over , that this daughter of a hundred earl be a stout lady in a plain gown , and a rather weather-beaten bonnet , with a bag of paper in one hand and a note-book in the other .
But the face be full of benevolence , the sonorous voice very kind , the genial manner very win , and about the whole person an indescribable air of high breeding which make beauty of no consequence , costume soon forget , and the moment memorable to the keen-eyed girl whom nothing escape .
A little chat about the rise , growth , and success of this particular class , and then Mrs Jo lead the conversation to the English lady 's work , anxious to show her pupil how rank dignifies labour , and charity blesses wealth .
It be good for these girl to hear of the evening-schools supported and taught by woman whom they know and honour ; of Miss Cobbe 's eloquent protest win the protection of the law for abused wife ; Mrs Butler save the lose ; Mrs Taylor , who devote one room in her historic house to a library for the servant ; Lord Shaftesbury , busy with his new tenement-houses in the slum of London ; of prison reform ; and all the brave work be do in God 's name by the rich and great for the humble and the poor .
It impress them more than many quiet home lecture would have do , and rouse an ambition to help when their time should come , well know that even in glorious America there be still plenty to be do before she be what she should be -- truly just , and free , and great .
They be also quick to see that Lady Abercrombie treat all there a her equal , from stately Mrs Laurence , to little Josie , take note of everything and privately resolve to have some thick-soled English boot as soon a possible .
No one would have guess that she have a big house in London , a castle in Wales , and a grand country seat in Scotland , a she speak of Parnassus with admiration , Plumfield a a ` dear old home ' , and the college a an honour to all concern in it .
At that , of course , every head go up a little , and when my lady leave , every hand be ready for the hearty shake the noble Englishwoman give them , with word they long remember : ' I be very pleased to see this much-neglected branch of a woman 's education so well conduct here , and I have to thank my friend Mrs Laurence for one of the most charming picture I 've see in America -- Penelope among her maid . '
A group of smile face watch the stout boot trudge away , respectful glance follow the shabby bonnet till it be out of sight , and the girl felt a truer respect for their title guest than if she have come in the coach and six , with all her diamond on . '
I feel well about the `` odd job '' now .
I only wish I could do them as well a Lady Abercrombie do , ' say one . '
I thank my star my buttonhole be nice , for she look at them and say : `` Quite workmanlike , upon my word , '' add another , feeling that her gingham gown have come to honour .
` Her manner be a sweet and kind a Mrs Brooke 's .
Not a bit stiff or condescending , a I expect .
I see now what you mean , Mrs Bhaer , when you say once that well-bred people be the same all the world over . '
Mrs Meg bow her thanks for the compliment , and Mrs Bhaer say : ' I know them when I see them , but never shall be a model of deportment myself .
I 'm glad you enjoy the little visit .
Now , if you young people do n't want England to get ahead of u in many way , you must bestir yourselves and keep abreast ; for our sister be in earnest , you see , and do n't waste time worry about their sphere , but make it wherever duty call them . '
` We will do our best , ma'am , ' answer the girl heartily , and troop away with their work-baskets , feel that though they might never be Harriet Martineaus , Elizabeth Brownings , or George Eliots , they might become noble , useful , and independent woman , and earn for themselves some sweet title from the grateful lip of the poor , good than any a queen could bestow .
Chapter 18 .
CLASS DAY The clerk of the weather evidently have a regard for young people , and send sunshine for class day as often a he can .
An especially lovely one shone over Plumfield a this interesting anniversary come round , bring the usual accompaniment of rose , strawberry , white-gowned girl , beam youth , proud friend , and stately dignitary full of well-earned satisfaction with the yearly harvest .
As Laurence College be a mixed one , the presence of young woman a student give to the occasion a grace and animation entirely want where the picturesque half of creation appear merely a spectator .
The hand that turn the page of wise book also possess the skill to decorate the hall with flower ; eye tire with study shone with hospitable warmth on the assembling guest ; and under the white muslin beat heart a full of ambition , hope , and courage a those agitate the broadcloth of the ruling sex .
College Hill , Parnassus , and old Plum swarm with cheery face , a guest , student , and professor hurry to and fro in the pleasant excitement of arrive and receive .
Everyone be welcome cordially , whether he roll up in a fine carriage , or trudge afoot to see the good son or daughter come to honour on the happy day that reward many a mutual sacrifice .
Mr Laurie and his wife be on the reception committee , and their lovely house be overflow .
Mrs Meg , with Daisy and Jo a aide , be in demand among the girl , help on belated toilette , give an eye to spread , and direct the decoration .
Mrs Jo have her hand full a President 's lady , and the mother of Ted ; for it take all the power and skill of that energetic woman to get her son into his Sunday best .
Not that he object to be well array ; far from it ; he adore good clothes , and owe to his great height already revel in a dress-suit , bequeath him by a dandy friend .
The effect be very funny ; but he would wear it in spite of the jeer of his mate , and sigh vainly for a beaver , because his stern parent draw the line there .
He plead that English lad of ten wear them and be ` no end nobby ' ; but his mother only answer , with a console pat of the yellow mane : ` My child , you be absurd enough now ; if I let you add a tall hat , Plumfield would n't hold either of u , such would be the scorn and derision of all beholder .
Content yourself with look like the ghost of a waiter , and do n't ask for the most ridiculous head-gear in the known world . '
Denied this noble badge of manhood , Ted soothe his wounded soul by appear in collar of an amazing height and stiffness , and tie which be the wonder of all female eye .
This freak be a sort of vengeance on his hard-hearted mother ; for the collar drive the laundress to despair , never be just right , and the tie require such art in the tying that three woman sometimes labour long before -- like Beau Brummel -- he turn from a heap of ` failure ' with the welcome word : ` That will do . '
Rob be devote on these try occasion , his own toilet be distinguish only by it speed , simplicity , and neatness .
Ted be usually in a frenzy before he be suit , and roar , whistle , command , and groan be hear from the den wherein the Lion rag and the Lamb patiently toil .
Mrs Jo bore it till boot be hurl and a rain of hair-brushes set in , then , fear for the safety of her eldest , she would go to the rescue , and by a wise mixture of fun and authority finally succeed in persuade Ted that he be ' a thing of beauty ' , if not ' a joy for ever ' .
At last he would stalk majestically forth , imprison in collar compare to which those wear by Dickens 's afflicted Biler be trifle not worth mention .
The dresscoat be a little loose in the shoulder , but allow a noble expanse of glossy bosom to be see , and with a delicate handkerchief negligently droop at the proper angle , have a truly fine effect .
Boots that shine , and likewise pinch , appear at one end of the ` long , black clothes-pin ' -- a Josie call him -- and a youthful but solemn face at the other , carry at an angle which , if long continued , would have result in spinal curvature .
Light glove , a cane , and -- oh , bitter drop in the cup of joy !
-- an ignominious straw hat , not to mention a choice floweret in the buttonhole , and a festoon of watchguard below , finish off this impressive boy .
` How 's that for style ? '
he ask , appear to his mother and cousin whom he be to escort to the hall on this particular occasion .
A shout of laughter greet him , follow by exclamation of horror ; for he have artfully add the little blond moustache he often wear when act .
It be very become , and seem the only balm to heal the wound make by the loss of the beloved hat .
` Take it off this moment , you audacious boy !
What would your father say to such a prank on this day when we must all behave our best ? '
say Mrs Jo , try to frown , but privately think that among the many youth about her none be so beautiful and original a her long son .
` Let him wear it , Aunty ; it 's so become .
No one will ever guess he be n't eighteen at least , ' cry Josie , to whom disguise of any sort be always charm .
` Father wo n't observe it ; he 'll be absorb in his big-wigs and the girl .
No matter if he do , he 'll enjoy the joke and introduce me a his old son .
Rob be nowhere when I 'm in full fig ' ; and Ted take the stage with a tragic stalk , like Hamlet in a tail-coat and choker .
` My son , obey me ! '
and when Mrs Jo speak in that tone her word be law .
Later , however , the moustache appear , and many stranger firmly believe that there be three young Bhaers .
So Ted find one ray of joy to light his gloom .
Mr Bhaer be a proud and happy man when , at the appointed hour , he look down upon the parterre of youthful face before him , think of the ` little garden ' in which he have hopefully and faithfully sow good seed year ago , and from which this beautiful harvest seem to have sprung .
Mr March 's fine old face shone with the serene satisfaction , for this be the dream of his life fulfil after patient waiting ; and the love and reverence in the countenance of the eager young men and woman look up at him plainly show that the reward he covet be his in full measure .
Laurie always efface himself on these occasion as much a courtesy would permit ; for everyone speak gratefully in ode , poem , and oration of the founder of the college and noble dispenser of his beneficence .
The three sister beam with pride a they sit among the lady , enjoy , a only woman can , the honour do the men they love ; while ` the original Plums ' , a the young one call themselves , regard the whole affair a their work , receive the curious , admire , or envious glance of stranger with a mixture of dignity and delight rather comical to behold .
The music be excellent , and well it might be when Apollo wave the baton .
The poem be -- a usual on such occasion -- of varied excellence , a the youthful speaker try to put old truth into new word , and make them forceful by the enthusiasm of their earnest face and fresh voice .
It be beautiful to see the eager interest with which the girl listen to some brilliant brother-student , and applaud him with a rustle a of wind over a bed of flower .
It be still more significant and pleasant to watch the young men 's face when a slender white figure stand out against the background of black-coated dignitary , and with cheek that flush and pal , and lips that tremble till earnest purpose conquer maiden fear , speak to them straight out of a woman 's heart and brain concern the hope and doubt , the aspiration and reward all must know , desire , and labour for .
This clear , sweet voice seem to reach and rouse all that be noblest in the soul of these youth , and to set a seal upon the year of comradeship which make them sacred and memorable for ever .
Alice Heath 's oration be unanimously pronounce the success of the day ; for without be flowery or sentimental , a be too apt to be the case with these first effort of youthful orator , it be earnest , sensible , and so inspiring that she leave the stage in a storm of applause , the good fellow be a much fire by her stir appeal to ` march shoulder to shoulder ' , a if she have chant the ` Marseillaise ' then and there .
One young man be so excited that he nearly rush out of his seat to receive her a she hasten to hide herself among her mate , who welcome her with face full of tender pride and tearful eye .
A prudent sister detain him , however , and in a moment he be able to listen with composure to the President 's remark .
They be worth listen to , for Mr Bhaer speak like a father to the child whom he be dismiss to the battle of life ; and his tender , wise , and helpful word linger in their heart long after the praise be forget .
Then come other exercise peculiar to Plumfield , and the end .
Why the roof do not fly off when the sturdy lung of the excited young men peal out the closing hymn will for ever be a mystery ; but it remain firm , and only the fading garland vibrate a the wave of music roll up and die away , leave sweet echo to haunt the place for another year .
Dinners and spread consume the afternoon , and at sunset come a slight lull a everyone seek some brief repose before the festivity of the evening begin .
The President 's reception be one of the enjoyable thing in store , also dance on Parnassus , and as much strolling , singing , and flirting , a could be compress into a few hour by youth and maiden just out of school .
Carriages be roll about , and gay group on piazza , lawn , and window-seats idly speculate a to who the distinguished guest might be .
The appearance of a very dusty vehicle load with trunk at Mr Bhaer 's hospitably open door cause much curious comment among the lounger , especially a two rather foreign-looking gentleman spring out , follow by two young lady , all four be greet with cry of joy and much embracing by the Bhaers .
Then they all disappear into the house , the luggage follow , and the watcher be leave to wonder who the mysterious stranger be , till a fair collegian declare that they must be the Professor 's nephew , one of whom be expect on his wedding journey .
She be right ; Franz proudly present his blonde and buxom bride , and she be hardly kiss and bless when Emil lead up his bonny English Mary , with the rapturous announcement : ` Uncle , Aunt Jo , here 's another daughter !
Have you room for my wife , too ? '
There could be no doubt of that ; and Mary be with difficulty rescue from the glad embrace of her new relative , who , remember all the young pair have suffer together , felt that this be the natural and happy end of the long voyage so perilously begin .
` But why not tell u , and let u be ready for two bride instead of one ? '
ask Mrs Jo , look a usual rather demoralize in a wrapper and crimping-pins , have rush down from her chamber , where she be prepare for the labour of the evening .
` Well , I remember what a good joke you all consider Uncle Laurie 's marriage , and I think I 'd give you another nice little surprise , ' laugh Emil .
` I 'm off duty , and it seem best to take advantage of wind and tide , and come along as convoy to the old boy here .
We hop to get in last night , but could n't fetch it , so here we be in time for the end of the jollification , anyway . '
` Ah , my son , it be too feeling-full to see you both so happy and again in the old home .
I haf no word to outpour my gratitude , and can only ask of the dear Gott in Himmel to bless and keep you all , ' cry Professor Bhaer , try to gather all four into his arm at once , while tear roll down his cheek , and his English fail him .
An April shower clear the air and relieve the full heart of the happy family ; then of course everyone begin to talk -- Franz and Ludmilla in German with uncle , Emil and Mary with the aunt ; and round this group gather the young folk , clamour to hear all about the wreck , and the rescue , and the homeward voyage .
It be a very different story from the write one ; and a they listen to Emil 's graphic word , with Mary 's soft voice break in now and then to add some fact that bring out the courage , patience , and self-sacrifice he so lightly touch upon , it become a solemn and pathetic thing to see and hear these happy creature tell of that great danger and deliverance . '
I never hear the patter of rain now that I do n't want to say my prayer ; and a for woman , I 'd like to take my hat off to every one of 'em , for they be braver than any man I ever saw , ' say Emil , with the new gravity that be a become to him a the new gentleness with which he treat everyone .
` If woman be brave , some men be a tender and self-sacrificing a woman .
I know one who in the night slip his share of food into a girl 's pocket , though starve himself , and sit for hour rock a sick man in his arm that he might get a little sleep .
No , love , I will tell , and you must let me ! '
cry Mary , hold in both her own the hand he lay on her lip to silence her .
` Only do my duty .
If that torment have last much longer I might have be as bad a poor Barry and the boatswain .
Was n't that an awful night ? '
And Emil shudder a he recall it .
` Do n't think of it , dear .
Tell about the happy day on the Urania , when papa grow good and we be all safe and homeward bound , ' say Mary , with the trust look and comforting touch which seem to banish the dark and recall the bright side of that terrible experience .
Emil cheer up at once , and sit with his arm about his ` dear lass ' , in true sailor fashion tell the happy end of the tale .
` Such a jolly old time a we have at Hamburg !
Uncle Hermann could n't do enough for the captain , and while mamma take care of him , Mary look after me .
I have to go into dock for repair ; fire hurt my eye , and watch for a sail and want of sleep make 'em as hazy a a London fog .
She be pilot and bring me in all right , you see , only I could n't part company , so she come aboard a first mate , and I 'm bound straight for glory now . '
` Hush !
that 's silly , dear , ' whisper Mary , try in her turn to stop him , with English shyness about tender topic .
But he take the soft hand in his , and proudly survey the one ring it wear , go on with the air of an admiral aboard his flagship .
` The captain propose wait a spell ; but I tell him we be n't like to see any rough weather than we 'd pull through together , and if we do n't know one another after such a year a this , we never should .
I be sure I should n't be worth my pay without this hand on the wheel ; so I have my way , and my brave little woman have ship for the long voyage .
God bless her ! '
` Shall you really sail with him ? '
ask Daisy , admire her courage , but shrink with cat-like horror from the water .
` I 'm not afraid , ' answer Mary , with a loyal smile .
` I 've prove my captain in fair weather and in foul , and if he be ever wreck again , I 'd rather be with him than wait and watch ashore . ' '
A true woman , and a born sailor 's wife !
You be a happy man , Emil , and I 'm sure this trip will be a prosperous one , ' cry Mrs Jo , delight with the briny flavour of this courtship .
` Oh , my dear boy , I always felt you 'd come back , and when everyone else despair I never give up , but insist that you be cling to the main-top jib somewhere on that dreadful sea ' ; and Mrs Jo illustrate her faith by grasp Emil with a truly Pillycoddian gesture .
` Of course I be ! '
answer Emil heartily ; ` and my `` main-top jib '' in this case be the thought of what you and Uncle say to me .
That keep me up ; and among the million thought that come to me during those long night none be clear than the idea of the red strand , you remember -- English navy , and all that .
I like the notion , and resolve that if a bit of my cable be leave afloat , the red stripe should be there . '
` And it be , my dear , it be !
Captain Hardy testifies to that , and here be your reward ' ; and Mrs Jo kiss Mary with a maternal tenderness which betray that she like the English rise good than the blue-eyed German Kornblumen , sweet and modest though it be .
Emil survey the little ceremony with complacency , say , a he look about the room which he never think to see again : ` Odd , be n't it , how clearly trifle come back to one in time of danger ?
As we float there , half-starved , and in despair , I use to think I hear the bell ring here , and Ted tramp downstairs , and you call , `` Boys , boys , it 's time to get up ! ''
