But he do not speak , for , suddenly clutch the chain about her neck , she seem to struggle with some invisible foe and beat it off , mutter audibly a she clench her thin hand on the golden case .
Paul lean and listen a if the first word have turn him to stone , till the paroxysm have pass , and with a heavy sigh my lady sank into a calm sleep .
Then , with a quick glance over his shoulder , Paul skillfully open the locket , draw out the silver key , replace it with one from the piano close by , and stole from the house noiselessly a he have enter it .
That night , in the dark hour before the dawn , a figure go glide through the shadowy Park to it most solitary corner .
Here stand the tomb of the Trevlyns , and here the figure pause .
A dull spark of light woke in it hand , there be a clank of bar , the creak of rusty hinge , then light and figure both seem swallow up .
Standing in the tomb where the air be close and heavy , the pale glimmer of the lantern show pile of molder coffin in the niche , and everywhere lay token of decay and death .
The man draw his hat lower over his eye , pull the muffler closer about his mouth , and survey the spot with an undaunted aspect , though the beating of his heart be hear in the deep silence .
Nearest the door stand a long casket cover with black velvet and richly decorate with silver ornament , tarnish now .
The Trevlyns have be a stalwart race , and the last sleeper bring there have evidently be of goodly stature , for the modern coffin be as ponderous a the great oaken bed where lay the bone of generation .
Lifting the lantern , the intruder brush the dust from the shield-shaped plate , read the name RICHARD TREVLYN and a date , and , a if satisfied , place a key in the lock , half-raised the lid , and , avert his head that he might not see the ruin seventeen long year have make , he lay his hand on the dead breast and from the folded shroud draw a mildewed paper .
One glance suffice , the casket be relocked , the door rebarred , the light extinguish , and the man vanish like a ghost in the darkness of the wild October night .
Chapter VIII WHICH ?
`` A Gentleman , my lady . ''
Taking a card from the silver salver on which the servant offer it , Lady Trevlyn read , `` Paul Talbot , '' and below the name these pencil word , `` I beseech you to see me . ''
Lillian stand beside her and saw the line .
Their eye meet , and in the girl 's face be such a sudden glow of hope , and love , and longing , that the mother could not doubt or disappoint her wish .
`` I will see him , '' she say .
`` Oh , Mamma , how kind you be ! ''
cry the girl with a passionate embrace , add breathlessly , `` He do not ask for me .
I can not see him yet .
I 'll hide in the alcove , and can appear or run away a I like when we know why he come . ''
They be in the library , for , know Lillian 's fondness for the room which hold no dark memory for her , my lady conquer her dislike and often sit there .
As she speak , the girl glide into the deep recess of a bay window and draw the heavy curtain just a Paul 's step sound at the door .
Hiding her agitation with a woman 's skill , my lady rise with outstretched hand to welcome him .
He bow but do not take the hand , say , in a voice of grave respect in which be audible an undertone of strong emotion , `` Pardon me , Lady Trevlyn .
Hear what I have to say ; and then if you offer me your hand , I shall gratefully receive it . ''
She glance at him , and saw that he be very pale , that his eye glitter with suppressed excitement , and his whole manner be that of a man who have nerve himself up to the performance of a difficult but intensely interesting task .
Fancying these sign of agitation only natural in a young lover come to woo , my lady smile , reseat herself , and calmly answer , `` I will listen patiently .
Speak freely , Paul , and remember I be an old friend . ''
`` I wish I could forget it .
Then my task would be easy , '' he murmur in a voice of mingle regret and resolution , a he lean on a tall chair opposite and wipe his damp forehead , with a look of such deep compassion that her heart sank with a nameless fear .
`` I must tell you a long story , and ask your forgiveness for the offense I commit against you when a boy .
A mistaken sense of duty guide me , and I obey it blindly .
Now I see my error and regret it , '' he say earnestly .
`` Go on , '' reply my lady , while the vague dread grow strong , and she brace her nerve a for some approaching shock .
She forget Lillian , forget everything but the strange aspect of the man before her , and the word to which she listen like a statue .
Still stand pale and steady , Paul speak rapidly , while his eye be full of mingled sternness , pity , and remorse .
`` Twenty year ago , an English gentleman meet a friend in a little Italian town , where he have marry a beautiful wife .
The wife have a sister as lovely a herself , and the young man , during that brief stay , love and marry her -- in a very private manner , l his father should disinherit him .
A few month pass , and the Englishman be call home to take possession of his title and estate , the father be dead .
He go alone , promise to send for the wife when all be ready .
He tell no one of his marriage , mean to surprise his English friend by produce the lovely woman unexpectedly .
He have be in England but a short time when he receive a letter from the old priest of the Italian town , say the cholera have sweep through it , carry off half it inhabitant , his wife and friend among others .
This blow prostrate the young man , and when he recover he hide his grief , shut himself up in his country house , and try to forget .
Accident threw in his way another lovely woman , and he marry again .
Before the first year be out , the friend whom he suppose be dead appear , and tell him that his wife still live , and have bear him a child .
In the terror and confusion of the plague , the priest have mistake one sister for the other , a the elder do die . ''
`` Yes , yes , I know ; go on ! ''
gasp my lady , with white lip , and eye that never leave the narrator 's face .
`` This friend have meet with misfortune after fly from the doomed village with the survive sister .
They have wait long for letter , have write , and , when no answer come , have be delay by illness and poverty from reach England .
At this time the child be bear , and the friend , urge by the wife and his own interest , come here , learn that Sir Richard be marry , and hurry to him in much distress .
We can imagine the grief and horror of the unhappy man .
In that interview the friend promise to leave all to Sir Richard , to preserve the secret till some mean of relief could be find ; and with this promise he return , to guard and comfort the forsaken wife .
Sir Richard write the truth to Lady Trevlyn , mean to kill himself , a the only way of escape from the terrible situation between two woman , both so beloved , both so innocently wrong .
The pistol lay ready , but death come without it aid , and Sir Richard be spar the sin of suicide . ''
Paul pause for breath , but Lady Trevlyn motion him to go on , still sit rigid and white a the marble image near her .
`` The friend only live to reach home and tell the story .
It kill the wife , and she die , implore the old priest to see her child right and it father 's name secure to it .
He promise ; but he be poor , the child be a frail baby , and he wait .
Years pass , and when the child be old enough to ask for it parent and demand it due , the proof of the marriage be lose , and nothing remain but a ring , a bit of writing , and the name .
The priest be very old , have neither friend , money , nor proof to help him ; but I be strong and hopeful , and though a mere boy I resolve to do the work .
I make my way to England , to Trevlyn Hall , and by various stratagem -LRB- among which , I be ashamed to say , be false key and feign sleepwalk -RRB- I collect many proof , but nothing which would satisfy a court , for no one but you know where Sir Richard 's confession be .
I search every nook and corner of the Hall , but in vain , and begin to despair , when news of the death of Father Cosmo recall me to Italy ; for Helen be leave to my care then .
The old man have faithfully record the fact and leave witness to prove the truth of his story ; but for four year I never use it , never make any effort to secure the title or estate . ''
`` Why not ? ''
breathe my lady in a faint whisper , a hope suddenly revive .
`` Because I be grateful , '' and for the first time Paul 's voice falter .
`` I be a stranger , and you take me in .
I never could forget that , nor tie many kindness bestow upon the friendless boy .
This afflict me , even while I be act a false part , and when I be away my heart fail me .
But Helen give me no peace ; for my sake , she urge me to keep the vow make to that poor mother , and threaten to tell the story herself .
Talbot 's benefaction leave me no excuse for delay long , and I come to finish the hard task I can ever undertake .
I fear that a long dispute would follow any appeal to law , and meant to appeal first to you , but fate befriend me , and the last proof be find . ''
`` Found !
Where ? ''
cry Lady Trevlyn , spring up aghast .
`` In Sir Richard 's coffin , where you hide it , not dare to destroy , yet fear to keep it . ''
`` Who have betray me ? ''
And her eye glance wildly about the room , a if she fear to see some spectral accuser .
`` Your own lip , my lady .
Last night I come to speak of this .
You lay asleep , and in some troubled dream spoke of the paper , safe in it writer 's keep , and your strange treasure here , the key of which you guard day and night .
I divine the truth .
Remembering Hester 's story , I take the key from your helpless hand , find the paper on Sir Richard 's dead breast , and now demand that you confess your part in this tragedy . ''
`` I do , I do !
I confess , I yield , I relinquish everything , and ask pity only for my child . ''
Lady Trevlyn fell upon her knee before him , with a submissive gesture , but implore eye , for , amid the wreck of womanly pride and worldly fortune , the mother 's heart still cling to it idol .
`` Who should pity her , if not I ?
God know I would have spar her this blow if I could ; but Helen would not keep silent , and I be drive to finish what I have begin .
Tell Lillian this , and do not let her hate me . ''
As Paul speak , tenderly , eagerly , the curtain part , and Lillian appear , tremble with the excitement of that interview , but conscious of only one emotion a she throw herself into his arm , cry in a tone of passionate delight , `` Brother !
Brother !
Now I may love you ! ''
Paul hold her close , and for a moment forget everything but the joy of that moment .
Lillian speak first , look up through tear of tenderness , her little hand lay caressingly against his cheek , a she whisper with sudden bloom in her own , `` Now I know why I love you so well , and now I can see you marry Helen without break my heart .
Oh , Paul , you be still mine , and I care for nothing else . ''
`` But , Lillian , I be not your brother . ''
`` Then , in heaven 's name , who be you ? ''
she cry , tear herself from his arm .
`` Your lover , dear ! ''
`` Who , then , be the heir ? ''
demand Lady Trevlyn , spring up , a Lillian turn to seek shelter with her mother .
`` I be . ''
Helen speak , and Helen stand on the threshold of the door , with a hard , haughty look upon her beautiful face .
`` You tell your story badly , Paul , '' she say , in a bitter tone .
`` You forget me , forget my affliction , my loneliness , my wrong , and the natural desire of a child to clear her mother 's honor and claim her father 's name .
I be Sir Richard 's eldest daughter .
I can prove my birth , and I demand my right with his own word to sustain me . ''
She pause , but no one speak ; and with a slight tremor in her proud voice , she add , `` Paul have do the work ; he shall have the reward .
I only want my father 's name .
Title and fortune be nothing to one like me .
I covet and claim them that I might give them to you , Paul , my one friend , always , so tender and so true . ''
`` I 'll have none of it , '' he answer , almost fiercely .
`` I have keep my promise , and be free .
You choose to claim your own , although I offer all I have to buy your silence .
It be yours by right -- take it , and enjoy it if you can .
I 'll have no reward for work like this . ''
He turn from her with a look that would have stricken her to the heart could she have see it .
She felt it , and it seem to augment some secret anguish , for she press her hand against her bosom with an expression of deep suffering , exclaim passionately , `` Yes , I will keep it , since I be to lose all else .
I be tire of pity .
Power be sweet , and I will use it .
Go , Paul , and be happy if you can , with a nameless wife , and the world 's compassion or contempt to sting your pride . ''
`` Oh , Lillian , where shall we go ?
This be no longer our home , but who will receive u now ? ''
cry Lady Trevlyn , in a tone of despair , for her spirit be utterly break by the thought of the shame and sorrow in store for this beloved and innocent child .
`` I will . ''
And Paul 's face shone with a love and loyalty they could not doubt .
`` My lady , you give me a home when I be homeless ; now let me pay my debt .
Lillian , I have love you from the time when , a romantic boy , I wear your little picture in my breast , and vow to win you if I live .
I dare not speak before , but now , when other heart may be shut against you , mine stand wide open to welcome you .
Come , both .
Let me protect and cherish you , and so atone for the sorrow I have bring you . ''
It be impossible to resist the sincere urgency of his voice , the tender reverence of his manner , a he take the two forlorn yet innocent creature into the shelter of his strength and love .
They cling to him instinctively , feel that there still remain to them one staunch friend whom adversity could not estrange .
An eloquent silence fell upon the room , break only by sob , grateful whisper , and the voiceless vow that lover plight with eye , and hand , and tender lip .
Helen be forget , till Lillian , whose elastic spirit throw off sorrow a a flower shed the rain , look up to thank Paul , with smile as well a tear , and saw the lonely figure in the shadow .
Her attitude be full of pathetic significance ; she still stand on the threshold , for no one have welcome her , and in the strange room she know not where to go ; her hand be clasp before her face , a if those sightless eye have see the joy she could not share , and at her foot lay the time-stained paper that give her a barren title , but no love .
Had Lillian know how sharp a conflict between passion and pride , jealousy and generosity , be go on in that young heart , she could not have speak in a tone of truer pity or sincerer goodwill than that in which she softly say , `` Poor girl !
We must not forget her , for , with all her wealth , she be poor compare to u .
We both have one father , and should love each other in spite of this misfortune .
Helen , may I call you sister ? ''
`` Not yet .
Wait till I deserve it . ''
As if that sweet voice have kindle an answer spark of nobleness in her own heart , Helen 's face change beautifully , a she tear the paper to shred , say in a glad , impetuous tone , while the white flake flutter from her hand , `` I , too , can be generous .
I , too , can forgive .
I bury the sad past .
See !
I yield my claim , I destroy my proof , I promise eternal silence , and keep ` Paul 's cousin ' for my only title .
Yes , you be happy , for you love one another ! ''
she cry , with a sudden passion of tear .
`` Oh , forgive me , pity me , and take me in , for I be all alone and in the dark ! ''
There could be but one reply to an appeal like that , and they give it , a they welcome her with word that seal a household league of mutual secrecy and sacrifice .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Under_the_Lilacs.txt.out
CHAPTER I A MYSTERIOUS DOG The elm-tree avenue be all overgrown , the great gate be never unlock , and the old house have be shut up for several year .
Yet voice be hear about the place , the lilac nod over the high wall a if they say , `` We could tell fine secret if we choose , '' and the mullein outside the gate make haste to reach the keyhole , that it might peep in and see what be go on .
If it have suddenly grow up like a magic bean-stalk , and look in on a certain June day , it would have see a droll but pleasant sight , for somebody evidently be go to have a party .
From the gate to the porch go a wide walk , pave with smooth slab of dark stone , and border with the tall bush which meet overhead , make a green roof .
All sort of neglected flower and wild weed grow between their stem , cover the wall of this summer parlor with the pretty tapestry .
A board , prop on two block of wood , stood in the middle of the walk , cover with a little plaid shawl much the worse for wear , and on it a miniature tea-service be set forth with great elegance .
To be sure , the tea-pot have lose it spout , the cream-jug it handle , the sugar-bowl it cover , and the cup and plate be all more or less cracked or nicked ; but polite person would not take notice of these trifle deficiency , and none but polite person be invite to this party .
On either side of the porch be a seat , and here a somewhat remarkable sight would have be reveal to any inquisitive eye peer through the aforesaid keyhole .
Upon the left-hand seat lay seven doll , upon the right-hand seat lay six ; and so varied be the expression of their countenance , owe to fracture , dirt , age , and other affliction , that one would very naturally have think this a doll 's hospital , and these the patient wait for their tea .
This , however , would have be a sad mistake ; for if the wind have lift the covering lay over them , it would have disclose the fact that all be in full dress , and merely repose before the feast should begin .
There be another interesting feature of the scene which would have puzzle any but those well acquaint with the manner and custom of doll .
A fourteenth rag baby , with a china head , hung by her neck from the rusty knocker in the middle of the door .
A sprig of white and one of purple lilac nod over her , a dress of yellow calico , richly trim with red-flannel scallop , shroud her slender form , a garland of small flower crown her glossy curl , and a pair of blue boot touch toe in the friendly , if not the most graceful , manner .
An emotion of grief , as well a of surprise , might well have thrill any youthful breast at such a spectacle ; for why , oh !
why , be this resplendent dolly hang up there to be star at by thirteen of her kindred ?
Was she a criminal , the sight of whose execution throw them flat upon their back in speechless horror ?
Or be she an idol , to be adore in that humble posture ?
Neither , my friend .
She be blonde Belinda , set , or rather hung , aloft , in the place of honor , for this be her seventh birthday , and a superb ball be about to celebrate the great event .
All be evidently await a summons to the festive board ; but such be the perfect breeding of these doll , that not a single eye out of the whole twenty-seven -LRB- Dutch Hans have lose one of the black bead from his worsted countenance -RRB- turn for a moment toward the table , or so much a winked , a they lay in decorous row , gaze with mute admiration at Belinda .
She , unable to repress the joy and pride which swell her sawdust bosom till the seam gap , give an occasional bounce a the wind wave her yellow skirt , or make the blue boot dance a sort of jig upon the door .
Hanging be evidently not a painful operation , for she smile contentedly , and look a if the red ribbon around her neck be not uncomfortably tight ; therefore , if slow suffocation suit her , who else have any right to complain ?
So a pleasing silence reign , not even break by a snore from Dinah , the top of whose turban alone be visible above the coverlet , or a cry from baby Jane , though her bare foot stick out in a way that would have produce shriek from a less well-trained infant .
Presently voice be hear approaching , and through the arch which lead to a side-path come two little girl , one carry a small pitcher , the other proudly bear a basket cover with a napkin .
They look like twin , but be not , for Bab be a year old than Betty , though only an inch taller .
Both have on brown calico frock , much the worse for a week 's wear ; but clean pink pinafore , in honor of the occasion , make up for that , as well a the gray stocking and thick boot .
Both have round , rosy face rather sunburnt , pug nose somewhat freckle , merry blue eye , and braid tail of hair hang down their back like those of the dear little Kenwigses .
`` Do n't they look sweet ? ''
cry Bab , gaze with maternal pride upon the left-hand row of doll , who might appropriately have sing in chorus , `` We be seven . ''
`` Very nice ; but my Belinda beat them all .
I do think she be the splendid child that ever be ! ''
And Betty set down the basket to run and embrace the suspended darling , just then kick up her heel with joyful abandon .
`` The cake can be cool while we fix the child .
It do smell perfectly delicious ! ''
say Bab , lift the napkin to hang over the basket , fondly regard the little round loaf that lay inside .
`` Leave some smell for me ! ''
command Betty , run back to get her fair share of the spicy fragrance .
The pug nose sniff it up luxuriously , and the bright eye feast upon the loveliness of the cake , so brown and shiny , with a tipsy-looking B in pie-crust stagger down one side , instead of sit properly a-top .
`` Ma let me put it on the very last minute , and it bake so hard I could n't pick it off .
We can give Belinda that piece , so it 's just as well , '' observe Betty , take the lead , a her child be queen of the revel .
`` Let 's set them round , so they can see too , '' propose Bab , go , with a hop , skip , and jump , to collect her young family .
Betty agree , and for several minute both be absorb in seat their doll about the table ; for some of the dear thing be so limp they would n't sit up , and others so stiff they would n't sit down , and all sort of seat have to be contrive to suit the peculiarity of their spine .
This arduous task accomplish , the fond mamma step back to enjoy the spectacle , which , I assure you , be an impressive one .
Belinda sit with great dignity at the head , her hand genteelly hold a pink cambric pocket-handkerchief in her lap .
Josephus , her cousin , take the foot , elegantly array in a new suit of purple and green gingham , with his speak countenance much obscure by a straw hat several size too large for him ; while on either side sit guest of every size , complexion , and costume , produce a very gay and varied effect , a all be dress with a noble disregard of fashion .
`` They will like to see u get tea .
Did you forget the bun ? ''
inquired Betty , anxiously .
`` No ; get them in my pocket . ''
And Bab produce from that chaotic cupboard two rather stale and crumbly one , save from lunch for the fete .
These be cut up and arrange in plate , form a graceful circle around the cake , still in it basket .
`` Ma could n't spare much milk , so we must mix water with it .
Strong tea be n't good for child , she say . ''
And Bab contentedly survey the gill of skim-milk which be to satisfy the thirst of the company .
`` While the tea draw and the cake cool , let 's sit down and rest ; I 'm so tired ! ''
sigh Betty , drop down on the door-step and stretch out the stout little leg which have be on the go all day ; for Saturday have it task as well a it fun , and much business have precede this unusual pleasure .
Bab go and sit beside her , look idly down the walk toward the gate , where a fine cobweb shone in the afternoon sun .
`` Ma say she be go over the house in a day or two , now it be warm and dry after the storm , and we may go with her .
You know she would n't take u in the fall , cause we have whooping-cough , and it be damp there .
Now we shall see all the nice thing ; wo n't it be fun ? ''
observe Bab , after a pause .
`` Yes , indeed !
Ma say there 's lot of book in one room , and I can look at 'em while she go round .
May be I 'll have time to read some , and then I can tell you , '' answer Betty , who dearly love story , and seldom get any new one .
`` I 'd rather see the old spinning-wheel up garret , and the big picture , and the queer clothes in the blue chest .
It make me mad to have them all shut up there , when we might have such fun with them .
I 'd just like to bang that old door down ! ''
And Bab twist round to give it a thump with her boot .
`` You need n't laugh ; you know you 'd like it as much a me , '' she add , twist back again , rather ashamed of her impatience .
`` I do n't laugh . ''
`` You do !
Do n't you suppose I know what laugh be ? ''
`` I guess I know I do n't . ''
`` You do laugh !
How darst you tell such a fib ? ''
`` If you say that again I 'll take Belinda and go right home ; then what will you do ? ''
`` I 'll eat up the cake . ''
`` No , you wo n't !
It 's mine , Ma say so ; and you be only company , so you 'd better behave or I wo n't have any party at all , so now . ''
This awful threat calm Bab 's anger at once , and she hasten to introduce a safer subject .
`` Never mind ; do n't let 's fight before the child .
Do you know , Ma say she will let u play in the coach-house next time it rain , and keep the key if we want to . ''
`` Oh , goody !
that 's because we tell her how we find the little window under the woodbine , and do n't try to go in , though we might have just as easy a not , '' cry Betty , appease at once , for , after a ten year ' acquaintance , she have grow use to Bab 's peppery temper .
`` I suppose the coach will be all dust and rat and spider , but I do n't care .
You and the doll can be the passenger , and I shall sit up in front drive . ''
`` You always do .
I shall like rid good than be horse all the time , with that old wooden bit in my mouth , and you jerk my arm off , '' say poor Betty , who be tire of be horse continually .
`` I guess we 'd better go and get the water now , '' suggest Bab , feel that it be not safe to encourage her sister in such complaint .
`` It be not many people who would dare to leave their child all alone with such a lovely cake , and know they would n't pick at it , '' say Betty proudly , a they trot away to the spring , each with a little tin pail in her hand .
Alas , for the faith of these too confide mamma !
They be go about five minute , and when they return a sight meet their astonished eye which produce a simultaneous shriek of horror .
Flat upon their face lay the fourteen doll , and the cake , the cherished cake , be go .
For an instant the little girl could only stand motionless , gaze at the dreadful scene .
Then Bab cast her water-pail wildly away , and , double up her fist , cry out fiercely , -- `` It be that Sally !
She say she 'd pay me for slap her when she pinch little Mary Ann , and now she have .
I 'll give it to her !
You run that way .
I 'll run this .
Quick !
quick ! ''
Away they go , Bab race straight on , and bewilder Betty turn obediently round to trot in the opposite direction a fast a she could , with the water splash all over her a she run , for she have forget to put down her pail .
Round the house they go , and meet with a crash at the back door , but no sign of the thief appear .
`` In the lane ! ''
shout Bab .
`` Down by the spring ! ''
pant Betty ; and off they go again , one to scramble up a pile of stone and look over the wall into the avenue , the other to scamper to the spot they have just leave .
Still , nothing appear but the dandelion ' innocent face look up at Bab , and a brown bird scar from his bath in the spring by Betty 's hasty approach .
Back they rush , but only to meet a new scare , which make them both cry `` Ow ! ''
and fly into the porch for refuge .
A strange dog be sit calmly among the ruin of the feast , lick his lip after basely eat up the last poor bit of bun , when he have bolt the cake , basket , and all , apparently .
`` Oh , the horrid thing ! ''
cry Bab , long to give battle , but afraid , for the dog be a peculiar as well a a dishonest animal .
`` He look like our China poodle , do n't he ? ''
whisper Betty , make herself as small a possible behind her more valiant sister .
He certainly do ; for , though much large and dirty than the well-washed China dog , this live one have the same tassel at the end of his tail , ruffle of hair round his ankle , and a body shave behind and curly before .
His eye , however , be yellow , instead of glassy black , like the other 's ; his red nose work a he cock it up , a if smell for more cake , in the most impudent manner ; and never , during the three year he have stand on the parlor mantel-piece , have the China poodle do the surprising feat with which this mysterious dog now proceed to astonish the little girl almost out of their wit .
First he sit up , put his forepaw together , and beg prettily ; then he suddenly fling his hind-legs into the air , and walk about with great ease .
Hardly have they recover from this shock , when the hind-legs come down , the fore-legs go up , and he parade in a soldierly manner to and fro , like a sentinel on guard .
But the crowning performance be when he take his tail in his mouth and waltz down the walk , over the prostrate doll , to the gate and back again , barely escape a general upset of the ravage table .
Bab and Betty could only hold each other tight and squeal with delight , for never have they see any thing so funny ; but , when the gymnastics end , and the dizzy dog come and stand on the step before them bark loudly , with that pink nose of his sniff at their foot , and his queer eye fix sharply upon them , their amusement turn to fear again , and they dare not stir .
`` Whish , go away ! ''
command Bab .
`` Scat ! ''
meekly quaver Betty .
To their great relief , the poodle give several more inquiring bark , and then vanish as suddenly a he appear .
With one impulse , the child run to see what become of him , and , after a brisk scamper through the orchard , saw the tasselled tail disappear under the fence at the far end .
`` Where do you s ` pose he come from ? ''
ask Betty , stop to rest on a big stone .
`` I 'd like to know where he 's go , too , and give him a good beating , old thief ! ''
scold Bab , remember their wrong .
`` Oh , dear , yes !
I hope the cake burn him dreadfully if he do eat it , '' groan Betty , sadly remember the dozen good raisin she chop up , and the `` lot of ` lass '' mother put into the dear lose loaf .
`` The party 's all spoilt , so we may as well go home ; and Bab mournfully lead the way back .
Betty pucker up her face to cry , but burst out laugh in spite of her woe .
`` It be so funny to see him spin round and walk on his head !
I wish he 'd do it all over again ; do n't you ? ''
`` Yes : but I hate him just the same .
I wonder what Ma will say when -- why !
why ! ''
and Bab stop short in the arch , with her eye a round and almost as large a the blue saucer on the tea-tray .
`` What be it ?
oh , what be it ? ''
cry Betty , all ready to run away if any new terror appear .
`` Look !
there !
it 's come back ! ''
say Bab in an awe-stricken whisper , point to the table .
Betty do look , and her eye open even wide , -- as well they might , -- for there , just where they first put it , be the lost cake , unhurt , unchanged , except that the big B have coast a little further down the gingerbread hill .
CHAPTER II WHERE THEY FOUND HIS MASTER Neither speak for a minute , astonishment be too great for word ; then , a by one impulse , both steal up and touch the cake with a timid finger , quite prepared to see it fly away in some mysterious and startling manner .
It remain sit tranquilly in the basket , however , and the child draw a long breath of relief , for , though they do not believe in fairy , the late performance do seem rather like witchcraft .
`` The dog do n't eat it ! ''
`` Sally do n't take it ! ''
`` How do you know ? ''
`` She never would have put it back . ''
`` Who do ? ''
`` Ca n't tell , but I forgive 'em . ''
`` What shall we do now ? ''
ask Betty , feeling a if it would be very difficult to settle down to a quiet tea-party after such unusual excitement .
`` Eat that cake up just as fast a ever we can , '' and Bab divide the contested delicacy with one chop of the big knife , bound to make sure of her own share at all event .
It do not take long , for they wash it down with sip of milk , and ate as fast a possible , glance round all the while to see if the queer dog be come again .
`` There !
now I 'd like to see any one take my cake away , '' say Bab , defiantly crunch her half of the pie-crust B . `` Or mine either , '' cough Betty , choke over a raisin that would n't go down in a hurry .
`` We might as well clear up , and play there have be an earthquake , '' suggest Bab , feel that some such convulsion of Nature be need to explain satisfactorily the demoralized condition of her family .
`` That will be splendid .
My poor Linda be knock right over on her nose .
Darlin ' child , come to your mother and be fix , '' purr Betty , lift the fall idol from a grove of chickweed , and tenderly brush the dirt from Belinda 's heroically smiling face .
`` She 'll have croup to-night as sure a the world .
We 'd well make up some squill out of this sugar and water , '' say Bab , who dearly love to dose the dolly all round .
`` P ` r ` aps she will , but you need n't begin to sneeze yet awhile .
I can sneeze for my own child , thank you , ma'am , '' return Betty , sharply , for her usually amiable spirit have be ruffle by the late occurrence .
`` I do n't sneeze !
I 've get enough to do to talk and cry and cough for my own poor dear , without bother about yours , '' cry Bab , even more ruffled than her sister .
`` Then who do ?
I hear a real live sneeze just as plain a anything , '' and Betty look up to the green roof above her , a if the sound come from that direction .
A yellow-bird sat swinging and chirp on the tall lilac-bush , but no other live thing be in sight .
`` Birds do n't sneeze , do they ? ''
ask Betty , eye little Goldy suspiciously .
`` You goose !
of course they do n't . ''
`` Well .
I should just like to know who be laugh and sneeze round here .
May be it be the dog , '' suggest Betty look relieve .
`` I never heard of a dog 's laughing , except Mother Hubbard 's .
This be such a queer one , may be he can , though .
I wonder where he go to ? ''
and Bab take a survey down both the side-paths , quite long to see the funny poodle again .
`` I know where I 'm go to , '' say Betty , pile the doll into her apron with more haste than care .
`` I 'm go right straight home to tell Ma all about it .
I do n't like such action , and I 'm afraid to stay . ''
`` I ai n't ; but I guess it be go to rain , so I shall have to go any way , '' answer Bab , take advantage of the black cloud roll up the sky , for she scorn to own that she be afraid of any thing .
Clearing the table in a summary manner by catch up the four corner of the cloth , Bab put the rattling bundle into her apron , fling her child on the top and pronounce herself ready to depart .
Betty linger an instant to pick up and end that might be spoil by the rain , and , when she turn from take the red halter off the knocker , two lovely pink rose lay on the stone step .
`` Oh , Bab , just see !
Here 's the very one we want .
Was n't it nice of the wind to blow 'em down ? ''
she call out , pick them up and run after her sister , who have stroll moodily along , still look about for her sworn foe , Sally Folsom .
The flower soothe the feeling of the little girl , because they have long for them , and bravely resist the temptation to climb up the trellis and help themselves , since their mother have forbid such feat , owe to a fall Bab get try to reach a honeysuckle from the vine which run all over the porch .
Home they go and pour out their tale , to Mrs. Moss 's great amusement ; for she saw in it only some playmate 's prank , and be not much impress by the mysterious sneeze and laugh .
`` We 'll have a grand rummage Monday , and find out what be go on over there , '' be all she say .
But Mrs. Moss could not keep her promise , for on Monday it still rain , and the little girl paddle off to school like a pair of young duck , enjoy every puddle they come to , since India-rubber boot make wad a delicious possibility .
They take their dinner , and at noon regale a crowd of comrade with an account of the mysterious dog , who appear to be haunt the neighborhood , a several of the other child have see him examine their back yard with interest .
He have beg of them , but to none have he exhibit his accomplishment except Bab and Betty ; and they be therefore much set up , and call him `` our dog '' with an air .
The cake transaction remain a riddle , for Sally Folsom solemnly declare that she be play tag in Mamie Snow 's barn at that identical time .
No one have be near the old house but the two child , and no one could throw any light upon that singular affair .
It produce a great effect , however ; for even `` teacher '' be interested , and tell such amazing tale of a juggler she once saw , that doughnut be leave forget in dinner-baskets , and wedge of pie remain suspend in the air for several minute at a time , instead of vanish with miraculous rapidity a usual .
At afternoon recess , which the girl have first , Bab nearly dislocate every joint of her little body try to imitate the poodle 's antic .
She have practise on her bed with great success , but the wood-shed floor be a different thing , a her knee and elbow soon testify .
`` It look just as easy a any thing ; I do n't see how he do it , '' she say , come down with a bump after vainly attempt to walk on her hand .
`` My gracious , there he be this very minute ! ''
cry Betty , who sit on a little wood-pile near the door .
There be a general rush , -- and sixteen small girl gaze out into the rain as eagerly a if to behold Cinderella 's magic coach , instead of one forlorn dog trotting by through the mud .
`` Oh , do call him in and make him dance ! ''
cry the girl , all chirp at once , till it sound a if a flock of sparrow have take possession of the shed .
`` I will call him , he know me , '' and Bab scramble up , forget how she have chase the poodle and call him names two day ago .
He evidently have not forget , however ; for , though he pause and look wistfully at them , he would not approach , but stand drip in the rain , with his frill much bedraggle , while his tasselled tail wag slowly , and his pink nose point suggestively to the pail and basket , nearly empty now .
`` He 's hungry ; give him something to eat , and then he 'll see that we do n't want to hurt him , '' suggest Sally , start a contribution with her last bit of bread and butter .
Bab catch up her new pail , and collect all the odds and end ; then try to beguile the poor beast in to eat and be comfort .
But he only come as far a the door , and , sit up , beg with such implore eye that Bab put down the pail and step back , say pitifully , -- `` The poor thing be starve ; let him eat all he want , and we wo n't touch him . ''
The girl draw back with little cluck of interest and compassion ; but I regret to say their charity be not reward a they expect , for , the minute the coast be clear , the dog march boldly up , seize the handle of the pail in his mouth , and be off with it , gallop down the road at a great pace .
Shrieks arose from the child , especially Bab and Betty , basely bereave of their new dinner-pail ; but no one could follow the thief , for the bell rang , and in they go , so much excite that the boy rush tumultuously forth to discover the cause .
By the time school be over the sun be out , and Bab and Betty hasten home to tell their wrong and be comfort by mother , who do it most effectually .
`` Never mind , dear , I 'll get you another pail , if he do n't bring it back a he do before .
As it be too wet for you to play out , you shall go and see the old coach-house a I promise .
Keep on your rubber and come along . ''
This delightful prospect much assuage their woe , and away they go , skip gayly down the gravelled path , while Mrs. Moss follow , with skirt well tuck up , and a great bunch of key in her hand ; for she live at the Lodge , and have charge of the premise .
The small door of the coach-house be fasten inside , but the large one have a padlock on it ; and this be quickly unfasten , one half swung open , and the little girl run in , too eager and curious even to cry out when they find themselves at last in possession of the long-coveted old carriage .
A dusty , musty concern enough ; but it have a high seat , a door , step that let down , and many other charm which render it most desirable in the eye of child .
Bab make straight for the box and Betty for the door ; but both come tumble down faster than they go up , when from the gloom of the interior come a shrill bark , and a low voice say quickly , `` Down , Sancho !
down ! ''
`` Who be there ? ''
demand Mrs. Moss , in a stern tone , back toward the door with both child cling to her skirt .
The well-known curly white head be pop out of the broken window , and a mild whine seem to say , `` Do n't be alarm , lady ; we wo n't hurt you .
Come out this minute , or I shall have to come and get you , '' call Mrs. Moss , grow very brave all of a sudden a she catch sight of a pair of small , dusty shoe under the coach .
`` Yes , 'm , I 'm come , as fast a I can , '' answer a meek voice , a what appear to be a bundle of rag leap out of the dark , follow by the poodle , who immediately sit down at the bare foot of his owner with a watchful air , a if ready to assault any one who might approach too near .
`` Now , then , who be you , and how do you get here ? ''
ask Mrs. Moss , try to speak sternly , though her motherly eye be already full of pity , a they rest on the forlorn little figure before her .
CHAPTER III BEN `` Please , 'm , my name be Ben Brown , and I 'm travellin ' . ''
`` Where be you go ? ''
`` Anywheres to get work . ''
`` What sort of work can you do ? ''
`` All kind .
I 'm use to horse . ''
`` Bless me !
such a little chap a you ?
`` I 'm twelve , ma'am , and can ride any thing on four leg ; '' and the small boy give a nod that seem to say , `` Bring on your Cruisers .
I 'm ready for 'em . ''
`` Have n't you get any folk ? ''
ask Mrs. Moss , amuse but still anxious , for the sunburnt face be very thin , the eye hollow with hunger or pain , and the ragged figure lean on the wheel a if too weak or weary to stand alone .
`` No , 'm , not of my own ; and the people I be leave with beat me so , I -- run away . ''
The last word seem to bolt out against his will a if the woman 's sympathy irresistibly win the child 's confidence .
`` Then I do n't blame you .
But how do you get here ? ''
`` I be so tired I could n't go any far , and I think the folk up here at the big house would take me in .
But the gate be lock , and I be so discouraged , I jest lay down outside and give up . ''
`` Poor little soul , I do n't wonder , '' say Mrs. Moss , while the child look deeply interested at mention of their gate .
The boy draw a long breath , and his eye begin to twinkle in spite of his forlorn state a he go on , while the dog prick up his ear at mention of his name : -- `` While I be restin ' I hear some one come along inside , and I peek , and saw them little girls playin ' .
The vittles look so nice I could n't help wantin ' 'em ; but I do n't take nothin ' , -- it be Sancho , and he take the cake for me . ''
Bab and Betty give a gasp and star reproachfully at the poodle , who half close his eye with a meek , unconscious look that be very droll .
`` And you make him put it back ? ''
cry Bab .
`` No ; I do it myself .
Got over the gate when you be racin ' after Sancho , and then clim ' up on the porch and hid , '' say the boy with a grin .
`` And you laugh ? ''
ask Bab .
`` Yes . ''
`` And sneeze ? ''
add Betty .
`` Yes . ''
`` And throw down the rose ? ''
cry both .
`` Yes ; and you like 'em , do n't you ? ''
`` Course we do !
What make you hide ? ''
say Bab .
`` I be n't fit to be see , '' mutter Ben , glance at his tatter a if he 'd like to dive out of sight into the dark coach again .
`` How come you here ? ''
demand Mrs. Moss , suddenly remember her responsibility .
`` I hear 'em talk about a little winder and a shed , and when they 'd go I find it and come in .
The glass be break , and I only pull the nail out .
I have n't do a mite of harm sleepin ' here two night .
I be so tuckered out I could n't go on nohow , though I try a Sunday . ''
`` And come back again ?
`` Yes , 'm ; it be so lonesome in the rain , and this place seem kinder like home , and I could hear 'em talkin ' outside , and Sanch he find vittles , and I be pretty comfortable . ''
`` Well , I never ! ''
ejaculate Mrs. Moss , whisk up a corner of her apron to wipe her eye , for the thought of the poor little fellow alone there for two day and night with no bed but musty straw , no food but the scrap a dog bring him , be too much for her .
`` Do you know what I 'm go to do with you ? ''
she ask , try to look calm and cool , with a great tear run down her wholesome red cheek , and a smile try to break out at the corner of her lip .
`` No , ma'am , and I dunno a I care .
Only do n't be hard on Sanch ; he 's be real good to me , and we 're fond of one another ; ai n't u , old chap ? ''
answer the boy , with his arm around the dog 's neck , and an anxious look which he have not wear for himself .
`` I 'm go to take you right home , and wash and feed and put you in a good bed ; and to-morrow , -- well , we 'll see what 'll happen then , '' say Mrs. Moss , not quite sure about it herself .
`` You 're very kind , ma'am , I 'll be glad to work for you .
Ai n't you get a horse I can see to ? ''
ask the boy , eagerly .
`` Nothing but hen and a cat . ''
Bab and Betty burst out laugh when their mother say that , and Ben give a faint giggle , a if he would like to join in if he only have the strength to do it .
But his legs shook under him , and he felt a queer dizziness ; so he could only hold on to Sancho , and blink at the light like a young owl .
`` Come right along , child .
Run on , girl , and put the rest of the broth to warming , and fill the kettle .
I 'll see to the boy , '' command Mrs. Moss , wave off the child , and go up to feel the pulse of her new charge , for it suddenly occur to her that he might be sick and not safe to take home .
The hand he give her be very thin , but clean and cool , and the black eye be clear though hollow , for the poor lad be half-starved .
`` I 'm awful shabby , but I ai n't dirty .
I have a washin ' in the rain last night , and I 've jest about live on water lately , '' he explain , wonder why she look at him so hard .
`` Put out your tongue . ''
He do so , but take it in again to say quickly , -- `` I ai n't sick , -- I 'm only hungry ; for I have n't have a mite but what Sanch bring , for three day ; and I always go half , do n't I , Sanch ? ''
The poodle give a shrill bark , and vibrate excitedly between the door and his master a if he understand all that be go on , and recommend a speedy march toward the promise food and shelter .
Mrs. Moss take the hint , and bid the boy follow her at once and bring his `` thing '' with him .
`` I ai n't get any .
Some big feller take away my bundle , else I would n't look so bad .
There 's only this .
I 'm sorry Sanch take it , and I 'd like to give it back if I know whose it be , '' say Ben , bring the new dinner-pail out from the depth of the coach where he have go to housekeep .
`` That 's soon do ; it 's mine , and you 're welcome to the bit your queer dog run off with .
Come along , I must lock up , '' and Mrs. Moss clank her key suggestively .
Ben limp out , lean on a broken hoe-handle , for he be stiff after two day in such damp lodging , as well a wear out with a fortnight 's wandering through sun and rain .
Sancho be in great spirit , evidently feel that their woe be over and his foraging expedition at an end , for he frisk about his master with yelp of pleasure , or make playful dart at the ankle of his benefactress , which cause her to cry , `` Whish ! ''
and `` Scat ! ''
and shake her skirt at him a if he be a cat or hen .
A hot fire be roar in the stove under the broth-skillet and tea-kettle , and Betty be poke in more wood , with a great smirch of black on her chubby cheek , while Bab be cut away at the loaf a if bent on slice her own finger off .
Before Ben know what he be about , he find himself in the old rocking-chair devour bread and butter a only a hungry boy can , with Sancho close by gnaw a mutton-bone like a ravenous wolf in sheep 's clothing .
While the new-comers be thus happily employ , Mrs. Moss beckon the little girl out of the room , and give them both an errand .
`` Bab , you run over to Mrs. Barton 's , and ask her for any old dud Billy do n't want ; and Betty , you go to the Cutters , and tell Miss Clarindy I 'd like a couple of the shirt we make at last sewing circle .
Any shoe , or a hat , or sock , would come handy , for the poor dear have n't a whole thread on him . ''
Away go the child full of anxiety to clothe their beggar ; and so well do they plead his cause with the good neighbor , that Ben hardly know himself when he emerge from the back bedroom half an hour later , clothe in Billy Barton 's faded flannel suit , with an unbleached cotton shirt out of the Dorcas basket , and a pair of Milly Cutter 's old shoe on his foot .
Sancho also have be put in good trim , for , after his master have refresh himself with a warm bath , he give his dog a good scrub while Mrs. Moss set a stitch here and there in the new old clothes ; and Sancho reappear , look more like the china poodle than ever , be as white a snow , his curl well brush up , and his tasselly tail wave proudly over his back .
Feeling eminently respectable and comfortable , the wanderer humbly present themselves , and be greet with smile of approval from the little girl and a hospitable welcome from the mother , who set them near the stove to dry , a both be decidedly damp after their ablution .
`` I declare I should n't have know you ! ''
exclaim the good woman , survey the boy with great satisfaction ; for , though still very thin and tired , the lad have a tidy look that please her , and a lively way of move about in his clothes , like an eel in a skin rather too big for him .
The merry black eye seem to see every thing , the voice have an honest sound , and the sunburnt face look several year young since the unnatural despondency have go out of it .
`` It 's very nice , and me and Sanch be lot oblige , ma'am , '' murmur Ben , get red and bashful under the three pair of friendly eye fix upon him .
Bab and Betty be do up the tea-things with unusual despatch , so that they might entertain their guest , and just a Ben speak Bab drop a cup .
To her great surprise no smash follow , for , bend quickly , the boy catch it a it fell , and present it to her on the back of his hand with a little bow .
`` Gracious !
how could you do it ? ''
ask Bab , look a if she think there be magic about .
`` That 's nothing ; look here , '' and , take two plate , Ben send them spin up into the air , catch and throw so rapidly that Bab and Betty stand with their mouth open , a if to swallow the plate should they fall , while Mrs. Moss , with her dish-cloth suspend , watch the antic of her crockery with a housewife 's anxiety .
`` That do beat all ! ''
be the only exclamation she have time to make ; for , a if desirous of show his gratitude in the only way he could , Ben take clothes-pins from a basket near by , send several saucer twirl up , catch them on the pin , balance the pin on chin , nose , forehead , and go walk about with a new and peculiar sort of toadstool ornament his countenance .
The child be immensely tickle , and Mrs. Moss be so amused she would have lent her best soup-tureen if he have express a wish for it .
But Ben be too tired to show all his accomplishment at once , and he soon stop , look a if he almost regret have betray that he possess any .
`` I guess you 've be in the juggling business , '' say Mrs. Moss , with a wise nod , for she saw the same look on his face a when he say his name be Ben Brown , -- the look of one who be not tell the whole truth .
`` Yes , 'm .
I use to help Senor Pedro , the Wizard of the World , and I learn some of his trick , '' stammer Ben , try to seem innocent .
`` Now , look here , boy , you 'd better tell me the whole story , and tell it true , or I shall have to send you up to judge Morris .
I would n't like to do that , for he be a harsh sort of a man ; so , if you have n't do any thing bad , you need n't be afraid to speak out , and I 'll do what I can for you , '' say Mrs. Moss , rather sternly , a she go and sit down in her rocking-chair , a if about to open the court .
`` I have n't do any thing bad , and I ai n't afraid , only I do n't want to go back ; and if I tell , may be you 'll let 'em know where I be , '' say Ben , much distress between his longing to confide in his new friend and his fear of his old enemy .
`` If they abuse you , of course I would n't .
Tell the truth , and I 'll stand by you .
Girls , you go for the milk . ''
`` Oh , Ma , do let u stay !
We 'll never tell , truly , truly ! ''
cry Bab and Betty , full of dismay be send off when secret be about to be divulge .
`` I do n't mind 'em , '' say Ben handsomely .
`` Very well , only hold your tongue .
Now , boy where do you come from ? ''
say Mrs. Moss , a the little girl hastily sit down together on their private and particular bench opposite their mother , brim with curiosity and beam with satisfaction at the prospect before them .
CHAPTER IV HIS STORY `` I run away from a circus , '' begin Ben , but get no further , for Bab and Betty give a simultaneous bounce of delight , and both cry out at once , -- `` We 've be to one !
It be splendid ! ''
`` You would n't think so if you know as much about it a I do , '' answer Ben , with a sudden frown and wriggle , a if he still felt the smart of the blow he have receive .
`` We do n't call it splendid ; do we , Sancho ? ''
he add , make a queer noise , which cause the poodle to growl and bang the floor irefully with his tail , a he lay close to his master 's foot , get acquaint with the new shoe they wear .
`` How come you there ? ''
ask Mrs. Moss , rather disturb at the news .
`` Why , my father be the ` Wild Hunter of the Plains . '
Did n't you ever see or hear of him ? ''
say Ben , a if surprised at her ignorance .
`` Bless your heart , child , I have n't be to a circus this ten year , and I 'm sure I do n't remember what or who I saw then , '' answer Mrs. Moss , amuse , yet touch by the son 's evident admiration for his father .
`` Did n't you see him ? ''
demand Ben , turn to the little girl .
`` We saw Indians and tumble men , and the Bounding Brothers of Borneo , and a clown and monkey , and a little mite of a pony with blue eye .
Was he any of them ? ''
answer Betty , innocently .
`` Pooh !
he do n't belong to that lot .
He always ride two , four , six , eight horse to oncet , and I use to ride with him till I get too big .
My father be A No . 1 , and do n't do any thing but break horse and ride 'em , '' say Ben , with as much pride a if his parent have be a President .
`` Is he dead ? ''
ask Mrs. Moss .
`` I do n't know .
Wish I do , '' -- and poor Ben give a gulp a if something rise in his throat and choke him .
`` Tell u all about it , dear , and may be we can find out where he be , '' say Mrs. Moss , lean forward to pat the shiny dark head that be suddenly bent over the dog .
`` Yes , ma'am .
I will , thank y ' , '' and with an effort the boy steady his voice and plunge into the middle of his story .
`` Father be always good to me , and I like bein ' with him after granny die .
I live with her till I be seven ; then father take me , and I be train for rider .
You jest oughter have see me when I be a little feller all in white tights , and a gold belt , and pink riggin ' , stand ' on father 's shoulder , or hangin ' on to old General 's tail , and him gallopin ' full pelt ; or father ridin ' three horse with me on his head wavin ' flag , and every one clapping like fun . ''
`` Oh , be n't you scar to piece ? ''
ask Betty , quake at the mere thought .
`` Not a bit .
I like it . ''
`` So should I ! ''
cry Bab enthusiastically .
`` Then I drive the four pony in the little chariot , when we parade , '' continue Ben , `` and I sit on the great ball up top of the grand car draw by Hannibal and Nero .
But I do n't like that , 'cause it be awful high and shaky , and the sun be hot , and the tree slap my face , and my leg ache holdin ' on . ''
`` What 's hanny bell and neroes ? ''
demand Betty .
`` Big elephant .
Father never let 'em put me up there , and they do n't darst till he be go ; then I have to , else they 'd ` a ' thrash me . ''
`` Did n't any one take your part ? ''
ask Mrs. Moss .
`` Yes , 'm , ` most all the lady do ; they be very good to me , ` specially ` Melia .
She vow she would n't go on in the Tunnymunt act if they do n't stop knockin ' me round when I would n't help old Buck with the bear .
So they have to stop it , 'cause she lead first rate , and none of the other lady ride half as well a ` Melia . ''
`` Bears !
oh , do tell about them ! ''
exclaim Bab , in great excitement , for at the only circus she have see the animal be her delight .
`` Buck have five of 'em , cross old feller , and he show 'em off .
I play with 'em once , jest for fun , and he think it would make a hit to have me show off instead of him .
But they have a way of clawin ' and huggin ' that be n't nice , and you could n't never tell whether they be good-natured or ready to bite your head off .
Buck be all over scar where they 'd scratch and bite him , and I be n't go to do it ; and I do n't have to , owin ' to Miss St. John 's standin ' by me like a good one . ''
`` Who be Miss St. John ? ''
ask Mrs. Moss , rather confuse by the sudden introduction of new name and people .
`` Why she be ` Melia , -- Mrs. Smithers , the ringmaster 's wife .
His name be n't Montgomery any more 'n hers be St. John .
They all change 'em to something fine on the bill , you know .
Father use to be Senor Jose Montebello ; and I be Master Adolphus Bloomsbury , after I stop bein ' a flyin ' Coopid and a infant Progidy . ''
Mrs. Moss lean back in her chair to laugh at that , greatly to the surprise of the little girl , who be much impress with the elegance of these high-sounding name .
`` Go on with your story , Ben , and tell why you run away and what become of your Pa , '' she say , compose herself to listen , really interested in the child .
`` Well , you see , father have a quarrel with old Smithers , and go off sudden last fall , just before tent season ' be over .
He tell me he be goin ' to a great ridin ' school in New York and when he be fix he 'd send for me .
I be to stay in the museum and help Pedro with the trick business .
He be a nice man and I like him , and ` Melia be goin ' to see to me , and I do n't mind for awhile .
But father do n't send for me , and I begin to have horrid time .
If it have n't be for ` Melia and Sancho I would have cut away long before I do . ''
`` What do you have to do ? ''
`` Lots of thing , for time be dull and I be smart .
Smithers say so , any way , and I have to tumble up lively when he give the word .
I do n't mind doin ' trick or showin ' off Sancho , for father train him , and he always do well with me .
But they want me to drink gin to keep me small , and I would n't , 'cause father do n't like that kind of thing .
I use to ride tip-top , and that just suit me till I get a fall and hurt my back ; but I have to go on all the same , though I ache dreadful , and use to tumble off , I be so dizzy and weak . ''
`` What a brute that man must have be !
Why do n't ` Melia put a stop to it ? ''
ask Mrs. Moss , indignantly .
`` She die , ma'am , and then there be no one leave but Sanch ; so I run away . ''
Then Ben fell to pat his dog again , to hide the tear he could not keep from come at the thought of the kind friend he have lose .
`` What do you mean to do ? ''
`` Find father ; but I could n't , for he be n't at the ridin ' school , and they tell me he have go out West to buy mustang for a man who want a lot .
So then I be in a fix , for I could n't go to father , do n't know jest where he be , and I would n't sneak back to Smithers to be abuse .
Tried to make 'em take me at the ridin ' school , but they do n't want a boy , and I travel along and try to get work .
But I 'd have starve if it have n't be for Sanch .
I leave him tie up when I run off , for fear they 'd say I steal him .
He 's a very valuable dog , ma'am , the best trick dog I ever see , and they 'd want him back more than they would me .
He belong to father , and I hat to leave him ; but I do .
I hook it one dark night , and never think I 'd see him ag ` in .
Next mornin ' I be eatin ' breakfast in a barn mile away , and dreadful lonesome , when he come tearin ' in , all mud and wet , with a great piece of rope draggin ' .
He 'd gnaw it and come after me , and would n't go back or be lose ; and I 'll never leave him again , will I , dear old feller ? ''
Sancho have listen to this portion of the tale with intense interest , and when Ben speak to him he stand straight up , put both paw on the boy 's shoulder , lick his face with a world of dumb affection in his yellow eye , and give a little whine which say a plainly a word , -- `` Cheer up , little master ; father may vanish and friend die , but I never will desert you . ''
Ben hug him close and smile over his curly , white head at the little girl , who clap their hand at the pleasing tableau , and then go to pat and fondle the good creature , assure him that they entirely forgive the theft of the cake and the new dinner-pail .
Inspired by these endearment and certain private signal give by Ben , Sancho suddenly burst away to perform all his best antic with unusual grace and dexterity .
Bab and Betty dance about the room with rapture , while Mrs. Moss declare she be almost afraid to have such a wonderfully intelligent animal in the house .
Praises of his dog please Ben more than praise of himself , and when the confusion have subside he entertain his audience with a lively account of Sancho 's cleverness , fidelity , and the various adventure in which he have nobly bear his part .
While he talk , Mrs. Moss be make up her mind about him , and when he come to an end of his dog 's perfection , she say , gravely , -- `` If I can find something for you to do , would you like to stay here awhile ? ''
`` Oh , yes , ma'am , I 'd be glad to ! ''
answer Ben , eagerly ; for the place seem home-like already , and the good woman almost as motherly a the departed Mrs. Smithers .
`` Well , I 'll step over to the Squire 's to-morrow to see what he say .
Should n't wonder if he 'd take you for a chore-boy , if you be as smart a you say .
He always have one in the summer , and I have n't see any round yet .
Can you drive cow ? ''
`` Hope so ; '' and Ben give a shrug , a if it be a very unnecessary question to put to a person who have drive four calico pony in a gilded chariot .
`` It may n't be as lively a rid elephant and play with bear , but it be respectable ; and I guess you 'll be happy switch Brindle and Buttercup than be switch yourself , '' say Mrs. Moss , shake her head at him with a smile .
`` I guess I will , ma'am , '' answer Ben , with sudden meekness , remember the trial from which he have escape .
Very soon after this , he be send off for a good night 's sleep in the back bedroom , with Sancho to watch over him .
But both find it difficult to slumber till the racket overhead subside ; for Bab insist on play she be a bear and devour poor Betty , in spite of her wail , till their mother come up and put an end to it by threaten to send Ben and his dog away in the morning , if the girl `` do n't behave and be as still a mouse . ''
This they solemnly promise ; and they be soon dream of gilded car and mouldy coach , runaway boy and dinner-pails , dance dog and twirl teacup .
CHAPTER V BEN GETS A PLACE When Ben awake next morning , he look about him for a moment half bewilder , because there be neither a canvas tent , a barn roof , nor the blue sky above him , but a neat white ceiling , where several fly buzz sociably together , while from without come , not the tramping of horse , the twitter of swallow , or the chirp of early bird , but the comfortable cackle of hen and the sound of two little voice chant the multiplication table .
Sancho sit at the open window , watch the old cat wash her face , and try to imitate her with his great ruffled paw , so awkwardly that Ben laugh ; and Sanch , to hide his confusion at be catch , make one bound from chair to bed , and lick his master 's face so energetically that the boy dive under the bedclothes to escape from the rough tongue .
A rap on the floor from below make both jump up , and in ten minute a shiny-faced lad and a lively dog go race downstairs , -- one to say , `` Good-mornin ' , ma'am , '' the other to wag his tail faster than ever tail wag before , for ham frizzle on the stove , and Sancho be fond of it .
`` Did you rest well ? ''
ask Mrs. Moss , nod at him , fork in hand .
`` Guess I do !
Never saw such a bed .
I 'm use to hay and a horse-blanket , and lately nothin ' but sky for a cover and grass for my feather-bed , '' laugh Ben , grateful for present comfort and make light of past hardship .
`` Clean , sweet corn-husks ai n't bad for young bone , even if they have n't get more flesh on them than yours have , '' answer Mrs. Moss , give the smooth head a motherly stroke a she go by .
`` Fat ai n't allow in our profession , ma'am .
The thinner the good for tight-ropes and tumblin ' ; likewise bareback ridin ' and spry jugglin ' .
Muscle 's the thing , and there you be . ''
Ben stretch out a wiry little arm with a clenched fist at the end of it , a if he be a young Hercules , ready to play ball with the stove if she give him leave .
Glad to see him in such good spirit , she point to the well outside , say pleasantly , -- `` Well , then , just try your muscle by bring in some fresh water . ''
Ben catch up a pail and run off , ready to be useful ; but , while he wait for the bucket to fill down among the mossy stone , he look about him , well pleased with all he saw , -- the small brown house with a pretty curl of smoke rise from it chimney , the little sister sit in the sunshine , green hill and newly-planted field far and near , a brook dance through the orchard , bird sing in the elm avenue , and all the world a fresh and lovely a early summer could make it .
`` Do n't you think it 's pretty nice here ? ''
ask Bab , a his eye come back to them after a long look , which seem to take in every thing , brighten a it rove .
`` Just the nice place that ever be .
Only need a horse round somewhere to be complete , '' answer Ben , a the long well-sweep come up with a drip bucket at one end , an old grindstone at the other .
`` The judge have three , but he 's so fussy about them he wo n't even let u pull a few hair out of old Major 's tail to make ring of , '' say Betty , shut her arithmetic , with an injured expression .
`` Mike let me ride the white one to water when the judge be n't round .
It 's such fun to go jounce down the lane and back .
I do love horse ! ''
cry Bab , bob up and down on the blue bench to imitate the motion of white Jenny .
`` I guess you be a plucky sort of a girl , '' and Ben give her an approving look a he go by , take care to slop a little water on Mrs. Puss , who stand curl her whisker and hump up her back at Sancho .
`` Come to breakfast ! ''
call Mrs. Moss ; and for about twenty minute little be say , a mush and milk vanish in a way that would have astonish even Jack the Giant-killer with his leather bag .
`` Now , girl , fly round and get your chore do up ; Ben , you go chop me some kindling ; and I 'll make thing tidy .
Then we can all start off at once , '' say Mrs. Moss , a the last mouthful vanish , and Sancho lick his lip over the savory scrap that fell to his share .
Ben fell to chop so vigorously that chip fly wildly all about the shed ; Bab rattle the cup into her dish-pan with dangerous haste , and Betty raise a cloud of dust `` sweeping-up ; '' while mother seem to be everywhere at once .
Even Sanch , feel that his fate be at stake , endeavor to help in his own somewhat erratic way , -- now frisk about Ben at the risk of get his tail chop off , then trot away to poke his inquisitive nose into every closet and room whither he follow Mrs. Moss in her `` fly round '' evolution ; next dragging off the mat so Betty could brush the door-steps , or inspect Bab 's dish-washing by stand on his hind-legs to survey the table with a critical air .
When they drive him out he be not the least offended , but gayly bark Puss up a tree , chase all the hen over the fence , and carefully inter an old shoe in the garden , where the remains of the mutton-bone be already bury .
By the time the others be ready , he have work off his superfluous spirit , and trot behind the party like a well-behaved dog accustom to go out walk with lady .
At the cross-roads they separate , the little girl run on to school , while Mrs. Moss and Ben go up to the Squire 's big house on the hill .
`` Do n't you be scar , child .
I 'LL make it all right about your run away ; and if the Squire give you a job , just thank him for it , and do your best to be steady and industrious ; then you 'll get on , I have n't a doubt , '' she whisper , ring the Ben at a side-door , on which the word `` Morris '' shone in bright letter .
`` Come in ! ''
call a gruff voice ; and , feel very much a if he be go to have a tooth out , Ben meekly follow the good woman , who put on her pleasant smile , anxious to make the best possible impression .
A white-headed old gentleman sit read a paper , and peer over his glass at the new-comers with a pair of sharp eye , say in a testy tone , which would have rather daunt any one who do not know what a kind heart he have under his capacious waistcoat , -- `` Good-morning , ma'am .
What 's the matter now ?
Young tramp be steal your chicken ? ''
`` Oh , dear no , sir ! ''
exclaim Mrs. Moss , a if shock at the idea .
Then , in a few word , she tell Ben 's story , unconsciously make his wrong and destitution so pathetic by her look and tone , that the Squire could not help be interested , and even Ben pity himself a if he be somebody else .
`` Now , then , boy , what can you do ? ''
ask the old gentleman , with an approve nod to Mrs. Moss a she finish , and such a keen glance from under his bushy brows that Ben felt a if he be perfectly transparent . ''
` Most any thing , sir , to get my livin ' . ''
`` Can you weed ? ''
`` Never do , but I can learn , sir . ''
`` Pull up all the beet and leave the pigweed , hey ?
Can you pick strawberry ? ''
`` Never try any thing but eatin ' 'em , sir , '' `` Not likely to forget that part of the job .
Can you ride a horse to plow ? ''
`` Guess I could , sir ! ''
-- and Ben 's eye begin to sparkle , for he dearly love the noble animal who have be his dear friend lately .
`` No antic allow .
My horse be a fine fellow , and I 'm very particular about him . ''
The Squire speak soberly , but there be a twinkle in his eye , and Mrs. Moss try not to smile ; for the Squire 's horse be a joke all over the town , be about twenty year old , and have a peculiar gait of his own , lift his fore-feet very high , with a great show of speed , though never go out of a jog-trot .
The boy use to say he gallop before and walk behind , and make all sort of fun of the big , Roman-nosed beast , who allow no liberty to be take with him .
`` I 'm too fond of horse to hurt 'em , Sir .
As for ridin ' , I ai n't afraid of any thing on four leg .
The King of Morocco use to kick and bite like fun , but I could manage him first-rate . ''
`` Then you 'd be able to drive cow to pasture , perhaps ? ''
`` I 've drive elephant and camel , ostrich and grizzly bear , and mule , and six yellow pony all to oncet .
May be I could manage cow if I try hard , '' answer Ben , endeavor to be meek and respectful when scorn fill his soul at the idea of not be able to drive a cow .
The Squire like him all the good for the droll mixture of indignation and amusement betray by the fire in his eye and the sly smile round his lip ; and be rather tickle by Ben 's list of animal , he answer gravely , -- `` Do n't raise elephant and camel much round here .
Bears use to be plenty , but folk get tire of them .
Mules be numerous , but we have the two-legged kind ; and a a general thing prefer Shanghae fowl to ostrich . ''
He get no farther , for Ben laugh out so infectiously that both the others join him ; and somehow that jolly laugh seem to settle matter than word .
As they stop , the Squire tap on the window behind him , say , with an attempt at the former gruffness , -- `` We 'll try you on cow awhile .
My man will show you where to drive them , and give you some odd job through the day .
I 'll see what you be good for , and send you word to-night , Mrs. Moss .
The boy can sleep at your house , ca n't he ? ''
`` Yes , indeed , sir .
He can go on do it , and come up to his work just as well a not .
I can see to him then , and he wo n't be a care to any one , '' say Mrs. Moss , heartily .
`` I 'll make inquiry concern your father , boy ; meantime mind what you be about , and have a good report to give when he come for you , '' return the Squire , with a warn wag of a stern fore-finger .
`` Thanky ' , sir .
I will , sir .
Father 'll come just as soon a he can , if he be n't sick or lose , '' murmur Ben , inwardly thank his star that he have not do any thing to make him quake before that awful finger , and resolve that he never would .
Here a red-headed Irishman come to the door , and stand eye the boy with small favor while the Squire give his order .
`` Pat , this lad want work .
He 's to take the cow and go for them .
Give him any light job you have , and let me know if he 's good for any thing . ''
`` Yis , your honor .
Come out o ' this , b ` y , till I show ye the baste , '' respond Pat ; and , with a hasty good-by to Mrs. Moss , Ben follow his new leader , sorely tempt to play some naughty trick upon him in return for his ungracious reception .
But in a moment he forget that Pat exist , for in the yard stand the Duke of Wellington , so name in honor of his Roman nose .
If Ben have know any thing about Shakespeare , he would have cry , `` A horse , a horse !
my kingdom for a horse ! ''
for the feeling be in his heart , and he run up to the stately animal without a fear .
Duke put back his ear and swish his tail a if displease for a moment ; but Ben look straight in his eye , give a scientific stroke to the iron-gray nose , and utter a chirrup which make the ear prick up a if recognize a familiar sound .
`` He 'll nip ye , if ye go botherin ' that way .
Leave him alone , and attend to the cattle a his honor tell ye , '' command Pat , who make a great show of respect toward Duke in public , and kick him brutally in private .
`` I ai n't afraid !
You wo n't hurt me , will you , old feller ?
See there now !
-- he know I 'm a friend , and take to me right off , '' say Ben , with an arm around Duke 's neck , and his own cheek confidingly lay against the animal 's ; for the intelligent eye speak to him as plainly a the little whinny which he understand and accept a a welcome .
The Squire saw it all from the open window , and suspect from Pat 's face that trouble be brewing , call out , -- `` Let the lad harness Duke , if he can .
I 'm go out directly , and he may as well try that a any thing . ''
Ben be delight , and prove himself so brisk and handy that the roomy chaise stand at the door in a surprisingly short time , with a smile little ostler at Duke 's head when the Squire come out .
His affection for the horse please the old gentleman , and his neat way of harness suit a well ; but Ben get no praise , except a nod and a brief `` All right , boy , '' a the equipage go creak and jog away .
Four sleek cow file out of the barnyard when Pat open the gate , and Ben drive them down the road to a distant pasture where the early grass await their eager cropping .
By the school they go , and the boy look pityingly at the black , brown , and yellow head bob past the window a a class go up to recite ; for it seem a hard thing to the liberty-loving lad to be shut up there so many hour on a morning like that .
But a little breeze that be play truant round the step do Ben a service without know it , for a sudden puff blow a torn leaf to his foot , and see a picture he take it up .
It evidently have fall from some ill-used history , for the picture show some queer ship at anchor , some oddly dress men just land , and a crowd of Indians dance about on the shore .
Ben spell out all he could about these interesting personage , but could not discover what it mean , because ink evidently have deluge the page , to the new reader 's great disappointment .
`` I 'll ask the girl ; may be they will know , '' say Ben to himself a , after look vainly for more stray leaf , he trudge on , enjoy the bobolink 's song , the warm sunshine , and a comfortable sense of friendliness and safety , which soon set him to whistle as gayly a any blackbird in the meadow .
CHAPTER VI A CIRCULATING LIBRARY After supper that night , Bab and Betty sit in the old porch playing with Josephus and Belinda , and discuss the event of the day ; for the appearance of the strange boy and his dog have be a most exciting occurrence in their quiet life .
They have see nothing of him since morning , a he take his meal at the Squire 's , and be at work with Pat in a distant field when the child pass .
Sancho have stick closely to his master , evidently rather bewilder by the new order of thing , and bound to see that no harm happen to Ben .
`` I wish they 'd come .
It 's sundown , and I hear the cow mooing , so I know they have go home , '' say Betty , impatiently ; for she regard the new-comer in the light of an entertaining book , and wish to read on as fast a possible .
`` I 'm go to learn the sign he make when he want Sancho to dance ; then we can have fun with him whenever we like .
He 's the dear dog I ever saw ! ''
answer Bab , who be fonder of animal than her sister .
`` Ma say -- Ow , what 's that ? ''
cry Betty with a start , a something bump against the gate outside ; and in a moment Ben 's head peep over the top a he swing himself up to the iron arch , in the middle of which be the empty lantern frame .
`` Please to locate , gentleman ; please to locate .
The performance be about to begin with the great Flyin ' Coopid act , in which Master Bloomsbury have appear before the crowned head of Europe .
Pronounced by all beholder the most remarkable youthful progidy agoin ' .
Hooray !
here we be ! ''
Having rattle off the familiar speech in Mr. Smithers 's elegant manner , Ben begin to cut up such caper that even a party of dignified hen , go down the avenue to bed , pause to look on with cluck of astonishment , evidently fancy that salt have set him to flutter and tumble a it do them .
Never have the old gate behold such antic , though it have see gay doings in it time ; for of all the boy who have climb over it , not one have ever stand on his head upon each of the big ball which ornament the post , hung by his heel from the arch , go round and round like a wheel with the bar for an axis , play a tattoo with his toe while hold on by his chin , walk about the wall on his hand , or close the entertainment by festoon himself in an airy posture over the side of the lantern frame , and kiss his hand to the audience a a well-bred Cupid be suppose to do on make his bow .
The little girl clap and stamp enthusiastically , while Sancho , who have be calmly survey the show , bark his approval a he leap up to snap at Ben 's foot .
`` Come down and tell what you do up at the Squire 's .
Was he cross ?
Did you have to work hard ?
Do you like it ? ''
ask Bab , when the noise have subside .
`` It 's cool up here , '' answer Ben , compose himself in the frame , and fan his hot face with a green spray broken from the tall bush rustle odorously all about him .
`` I do all sort of job .
The old gentleman be n't cross ; he give me a dime , and I like him first-rate .
But I just hate ` Carrots ; ' he swear at a feller , and fire a stick of wood at me .
Guess I 'll pay him off when I get a chance . ''
Fumbling in his pocket to show the bright dime , he find the torn page , and remember the thirst for information which have seize him in the morning .
`` Look here , tell me about this , will you ?
What be these chap up to ?
The ink have spoil all but the picture and this bit of reading .
I want to know what it mean .
Take it to 'em , Sanch . ''
The dog catch the leaf a it flutter to the ground , and carry it carefully in his mouth , deposit it at the foot of the little girl , seat himself before them with an air of deep interest .
Bab and Betty pick it up and read it aloud in unison , while Ben lean from his perch to listen and learn . ''
` When day dawn , land be visible .
A pleasant land it be .
There be gay flower , and tall tree with leaf and fruit , such a they have never see before .
On the shore be unclad copper-colored men , gaze with wonder at the Spanish ship .
They take them for great bird , the white sail for their wing , and the Spaniards for superior being bring down from heaven on their back . ''
`` Why , that 's Columbus find San Salvador .
Do n't you know about him ? ''
demand Bab , a if she be one of the `` superior being , '' and intimately acquaint with the immortal Christopher .
`` No , I do n't .
Who be he any way ?
I s ` pose that 's him paddlin ' ahead ; but which of the Injuns be Sam Salvindoor ? ''
ask Ben , rather ashamed of his ignorance , but bent on find out now he have begin .
`` My gracious !
twelve year old and not know your Quackenbos ! ''
laugh Bab , much amuse , but rather glad to find that she could teach the `` whirligig boy '' something , for she consider him a remarkable creature .
`` I do n't care a bit for your quackin ' bos , whoever he be .
Tell about this fine feller with the ship ; I like him , '' persist Ben .
So Bab , with frequent interruption and hint from Betty , tell the wonderful tale in a simple way , which make it easy to understand ; for she like history , and have a lively tongue of her own .
`` I 'd like to read some more .
Would my ten cent buy a book ? ''
ask Ben , anxious to learn a little since Bab laugh at him .
`` No , indeed !
I 'll lend you mine when I 'm not use it , and tell you all about it , '' promise Bab ; forget that she do not know `` all about it '' herself yet .
`` I do n't have any time only evening , and then may be you 'll want it , '' begin Ben , in whom the inky page have rouse a strong curiosity .
`` I do get my history in the evening , but you could have it morning before school . ''
`` I shall have to go off early , so there wo n't be any chance .
Yes , there will , -- I 'LL tell you how to do it .
Let me read while I drive up the cow .
Squire like 'em to eat slow along the road , so 's to keep the grass short and save mowin ' .
Pat say so , and I could do history instead of loafin ' round ! ''
cry Ben full of this bright idea .
`` How will I get my book back in time to recite ? ''
ask Bab , prudently .
`` Oh , I 'll leave it on the window-sill , or put it inside the door a I go back .
I 'll be real careful , and just as soon a I earn enough , I 'll buy you a new one and take the old one .
Will you ? ''
`` Yes ; but I 'll tell you a nice way to do .
Do n't put the book on the window , 'cause teacher will see you ; or inside the door , 'cause some one may steal it .
You put it in my cubby-house , right at the corner of the wall near the big maple .
You 'll find a cunning place between the root that stick up under the flat stone .
That 's my closet , and I keep thing there .
It 's the best cubby of all , and we take turn to have it . ''
`` I 'll find it , and that 'll be a first-rate place , '' say Ben , much gratify .
`` I could put my reading-book in sometimes , if you 'd like it .
There 's lot of pretty story in it and picture , '' propose Betty , rather timidly ; for she want to share the benevolent project , but have little to offer , not be a good a scholar a Bab .
`` I 'd like a ` rithmetic better .
I read tip-top , but I ai n't much on ` rithmetic ; so , if you can spare yours , I might take a look at it .
Now I 'm goin ' to earn wage , I ought to know about addin ' 'em up , and so on , '' say Ben , with the air of a Vanderbilt oppress with the care of million .
`` I 'll teach you that .
Betty do n't know much about sum .
But she spell splendidly , and be always at the head of her class .
Teacher be real proud of her , 'cause she never miss , and spell hard , fussy word , like chi-rog-ra-phy and bron-chi-tis as easy a any thing . ''
Bab quite beam with sisterly pride , and Betty smooth down her apron with modest satisfaction , for Bab seldom praise her , and she like it very much .
`` I never go to school , so that 's the reason I ai n't smart .
I can write , though , good 'n some of the boy up at school .
I saw lot of name on the shed door .
See here , now , '' -- and scramble down , Ben pull out a cherished bit of chalk , and flourish off ten letter of the alphabet , one on each of the dark stone slab that pave the walk .
`` Those be beautiful !
I ca n't make such curly one .
Who teach you to do it ? ''
ask Bab , a she and Betty walk up and down admire them .
`` Horse blanket , '' answer Ben , soberly .
`` What ! ''
cry both girl , stop to stare .
`` Our horse all have their name on their blanket , and I use to copy 'em .
The wagon have sign , and I learn to read that way after father teach me my letter off the red and yellow poster .
First word I know be lion , 'cause I be always goin ' to see old Jubal in his cage .
Father be real proud when I read it right off .
I can draw one , too . ''
Ben proceed to depict an animal intend to represent his lose friend ; but Jubal would not have recognize his portrait , since it look much more like Sancho than the king of the forest .
The child admire it immensely , however , and Ben give them a lesson in natural history which be so interesting that it keep them busy and happy till bedtime ; for the boy describe what he have see in such lively language , and illustrate in such a droll way , it be no wonder they be charm .
CHAPTER VII NEW FRIENDS TROT IN Next day Ben run off to his work with Quackenbos 's `` Elementary History of the United States '' in his pocket , and the Squire 's cow have ample time to breakfast on way-side grass before they be put into their pasture .
Even then the pleasant lesson be not end , for Ben have an errand to town ; and all the way he read busily , tumble over the hard word , and leave bit which he do not understand to be explain at night by Bab .
At `` The First Settlements '' he have to stop , for the schoolhouse be reach , and the book must be return .
The maple-tree closet be easily find , and a little surprise hide under the flat stone ; for Ben pay two stick of red and white candy for the privilege of take book from the new library .
When recess come , great be the rejoicing of the child over their unexpected treat , for Mrs. Moss have few penny to spare for sweet , and , somehow , this candy taste particularly nice , buy out of grateful Ben 's solitary dime .
The little girl share their goody with their favorite mate , but say nothing about the new arrangement , fear it would be spoil if generally know .
They tell their mother , however , and she give them leave to lend their book and encourage Ben to love learn all they could .
She also propose that they should drop patch-work , and help her make some blue shirt for Ben .
Mrs. Barton have give her the material , and she think it would be an excellent lesson in needle-work as well a a useful gift to Ben , -- who , boy-like , never trouble himself a to what he should wear when his one suit of clothes give out .
Wednesday afternoon be the sewing time ; so the two little B 's work busily at a pair of shirt-sleeves , sit on their bench in the doorway , while the rusty needle creak in and out , and the childish voice sing school-songs , with frequent stoppage for lively chatter .
For a week , Ben work away bravely , and never shirk nor complain , although Pat put many a hard or disagreeable job upon him , and chores grow more and more distasteful .
His only comfort be the knowledge that Mrs. Moss and the Squire be satisfy with him ; his only pleasure the lesson he learn while drive the cow , and recite in the evening when the three child meet under the lilac to `` play school . ''
He have no thought of study when he begin , and hardly know that he be do it a he pore over the different book he take from the library .
But the little girl try him with all they Possessed , and he be mortify to find how ignorant he be .
He never own it in word , but gladly accept all the bit of knowledge they offer from their small store ; get Betty to hear him spell `` just for fun ; '' agree to draw Bab all the bear and tiger she want if she would show him how to do sum on the flag , and often beguile his lonely labor by try to chant the multiplication table a they do .
When Tuesday night come round , the Squire pay him a dollar , say he be `` a likely boy , '' and might stay another week if he choose .
Ben thank him and think he would ; but the next morning , after he have put up the bar , he remain sit on the top rail to consider his prospect , for he felt uncommonly reluctant to go back to the society of rough Pat .
Like most boy , he hat work , unless it be of a sort which just suit him ; then he could toil like a beaver and never tire .
His wander life have give him no habit of steady industry ; and , while he be an unusually capable lad of his age , he dearly love to `` loaf '' about and have a good deal of variety and excitement in his life .
Now he saw nothing before him but day of patient and very uninteresting labor .
He be heartily sick of weed ; even rid Duke before the cultivator have lose it charm , and a great pile of wood lay in the Squire 's yard which he know he would be set to pile up in the shed .
Strawberry-picking would soon follow the asparagus cultivation ; then hay ; and and so on all the long bright summer , without any fun , unless his father come for him .
On the other hand , he be not oblige to stay a minute longer unless he like .
With a comfortable suit of clothes , a dollar in his pocket , and a row of dinner-baskets hang in the school-house entry to supply him with provision if he do n't mind steal them , what be easy than to run away again ?
Tramping have it charm in fair weather , and Ben have live like a gypsy under canvas for year ; so he fear nothing , and begin to look down the leafy road with a restless , wistful expression , a the temptation grow strong and strong every minute .
Sancho seem to share the longing , for he keep run off a little way and stop to frisk and bark ; then rush back to sit watch his master with those intelligent eye of his , which seem to say , `` Come on , Ben , let u scamper down this pleasant road and never stop till we be tire . ''
Swallows dart by , white cloud flee before the balmy west wind , a squirrel ran along the wall , and all thing seem to echo the boy 's desire to leave toil behind and roam away as care-free a they .
One thing restrain him , the thought of his seem ingratitude to good Mrs. Moss , and the disappointment of the little girl at the loss of their two new play-fellows .
While he pause to think of this , something happen which keep him from do what he would have be sure to regret afterward .
Horses have always be his best friend , and one come trot up to help him now ; though he do not know how much he owe it till long after .
Just in the act of swing himself over the bar to take a shortcut across the field , the sound of approach hoof , unaccompanied by the roll of wheel , catch his ear ; and , pause , he watch eagerly to see who be come at such a pace .
At the turn of road , however , the quick trot stop , and in a moment a lady on a bay mare come pace slowly into sight , -- a young and pretty lady , all in dark blue , with a bunch of dandelion like yellow star in her button-hole , and a silver-handled whip hang from the pommel of her saddle , evidently more for ornament than use .
The handsome mare limp a little , and shake her head a if something plague her ; while her mistress lean down to see what be the matter , say , a if she expect an answer of some sort , -- `` Now , Chevalita , if you have get a stone in your foot , I shall have to get off and take it out .
Why do n't you look where you step , and save me all this trouble ? ''
`` I 'll look for you , ma'am ; I 'd like to ! ''
say an eager voice so unexpectedly , that both horse and rider start a a boy come down the bank with a jump .
`` I wish you would .
You need not be afraid ; Lita be as gentle a a lamb , '' answer the young lady , smile , a if amuse by the boy 's earnestness .
`` She 's a beauty , any way , '' mutter Ben , lift one foot after another till he find the stone , and with some trouble get it out .
`` That be nicely do , and I 'm much oblige .
Can you tell me if that cross-road lead to the Elms ? ''
ask the lady , a she go slowly on with Ben beside her .
`` No , ma'am ; I 'm new in these part , and I only know where Squire Morris and Mrs. Moss live . ''
`` I want to see both of them , so suppose you show me the way .
I be here long ago , and think I should remember how to find the old house with the elm avenue and the big gate , but I do n't . ''
`` I know it ; they call that place the Laylocks now , 'cause there 's a hedge of 'em all down the path and front wall .
It 's a real pretty place ; Bab and Betty play there , and so do I. '' Ben could not restrain a chuckle at the recollection of his first appearance there , and , a if his merriment or his word interest her , the lady say pleasantly , `` Tell me all about it .
Are Bab and Betty your sister ? ''
Quite forget his intended tramp , Ben plunge into a copious history of himself and new-made friend , lead on by a kind look , an inquiring word , and sympathetic smile , till he have tell every thing .
At the school-house corner he stop and say , spread his arm like a sign-post , -- `` That 's the way to the Laylocks , and this be the way to the Squire 's . ''
`` As I 'm in a hurry to see the old house , I 'll go this way first , if you will be kind enough to give my love to Mrs. Morris , and tell the Squire Miss Celia be come to dine with him .
I wo n't say good-by , because I shall see you again . ''
With a nod and a smile , the young lady canter away , and Ben hurry up the hill to deliver his message , feeling a if something pleasant be go to happen ; so it would be wise to defer run away , for the present at least .
At one o'clock Miss Celia arrive , and Ben have the delight of help Pat stable pretty Chevalita ; then , his own dinner hastily eaten , he fell to work at the detested wood-pile with sudden energy ; for a he work he could steal peep into the dining-room , and see the curly brown head between the two gay one , a the three sit round the table .
He could not help hear a word now and then , a the window be open , and these bit of conversation fill him with curiosity for the name `` Thorny , '' `` Celia , '' and `` George '' be often repeat , and an occasional merry laugh from the young lady sound like music in that usually quiet place .
When dinner be over , Ben 's industrious fit leave him , and he leisurely trundle his barrow to and fro till the guest depart .
There be no chance for him to help now , since Pat , anxious to get whatever trifle might be offer for his service , be quite devote in his attention to the mare and her mistress , till she be mount and off .
But Miss Celia do not forget her little guide , and , spy a wistful face behind the wood-pile , pause at the gate and beckon with that win smile of hers .
If ten Pats have stand scowl in the way , Ben would have defy them all ; and , vault over the fence , he run up with a shin face , hop she want some last favor of him .
Leaning down , Miss Celia slip a new quarter into his hand , say , `` Lita want me to give you this for take the stone out of her foot . ''
`` Thank y ' , ma'am ; I like to do it , for I hate to see 'em limp , ` specially such a pretty one a she be , '' answer Ben , stroke the glossy neck with a love touch .
`` The Squire say you know a good deal about horse , so I suppose you understand the Houyhnhnm language ?
I 'm learn it , and it be very nice , '' laugh Miss Celia , a Chevalita give a little whinny and snuffle her nose into Ben 's pocket .
`` No , miss , I never go to school . ''
`` That be not taught there .
I 'll bring you a book all about it when I come back .
Mr. Gulliver go to the horse-country and hear the dear thing speak their own tongue . ''
`` My father have be on the prairie , where there 's lot of wild one , but he do n't hear 'em speak .
I know what they want without talkin ' , '' answer Ben , suspect a joke , but not exactly see what it be .
`` I do n't doubt it , but I wo n't forget the book .
Good-by , my lad , we shall soon meet again , '' and away go Miss Celia a if she be in a hurry to get back .
`` If she only have a red habit and a streamin ' white feather , she 'd look as fine a ` Melia use to .
She be ` most a kind and ride ` most as well .
Wonder where she 's goin ' to .
Hope she will come soon , '' think Ben , watch till the last flutter of the blue habit vanish round the corner ; and then he go back to his work with his head full of the promised book , pause now and then to chink the two silver half and the new quarter together in his pocket , wonder what he should buy with this vast sum .
Bab and Betty meantime have have a most exciting day ; for when they go home at noon they find the pretty lady there , and she have talk to them like an old friend , give them a ride on the little horse , and kiss them both good-by when they go back to school .
In the afternoon the lady be go , the old house all open , and their mother sweeping , air , in great spirit .
So they have a splendid frolic tumble on feather-beds , beat bit of carpet , open closet , and race from garret to cellar like a pair of distracted kitten .
Here Ben find them , and be at once overwhelm with a burst of news which excite him as much a it do them .
Miss Celia own the house , be come to liver there , and thing be to be make ready as soon a possible .
All think the prospect a charm one : Mrs. Moss , because life have be dull for her during the year she have take charge of the old house ; the little girl have hear rumor of various pet who be come ; and Ben , learn that a boy and a donkey be among them , resolve that nothing but the arrival of his father should tear him from this now deeply interesting spot .
`` I 'm in such a hurry to see the peacock and hear them scream .
She say they do , and that we 'd laugh when old Jack brayed , '' cry Bab , hop about on one foot to work off her impatience .
`` Is a faytun a kind of a bird ?
I hear her say she could keep it in the coach-house , '' ask Betty , inquiringly .
`` It 's a little carriage , '' and Ben roll in the grass , much tickle at poor Betty 's ignorance .
`` Of course it be .
I look it out in the dic . , and you must n't call it a payton , though it be spell with a p , '' add Bab , who like to lay down the law on all occasion , and do not mention that she have look vainly among the Vs till a school-mate set her right .
`` You ca n't tell me much about carriage .
But what I want to know be where Lita will stay ? ''
say Ben .
`` Oh , she 's to be up at the Squire 's till thing be fix , and you be to bring her down .
Squire come and tell Ma all about it , and say you be a boy to be trust , for he have try you . ''
Ben make no answer , but secretly thank his star that he have not prove himself untrustworthy by run away , and so miss all this fun .
`` Wo n't it be fine to have the house open all the time ?
We can run over and see the picture and book whenever we like .
I know we can , Miss Celia be so kind , '' begin Betty , who care for these thing more than for scream peacock and comical donkey .
`` Not unless you be invite , '' answer their mother , lock the front door behind her .
`` You 'd better begin to pick up your dud right away , for she wo n't want them clutter round her front yard .
If you be not too tired , Ben , you might rake round a little while I shut the blind .
I want thing to look nice and tidy . ''
Two little groan go up from two afflict little girl a they look about them at the shady bower , the dear porch , and the winding walk where they love to run `` till their hair whistle in the wind , '' a the fairy-books say .
`` Whatever shall we do !
Our attic be so hot and the shed so small , and the yard always full of hen or clothes .
We shall have to pack all our thing away , and never play any more , '' say Bab , tragically .
`` May be Ben could build u a little house in the orchard , '' propose Betty , who firmly believe that Ben could do any thing .
`` He wo n't have any time .
Boys do n't care for baby-houses , '' return Bab , collect her homeless good and chattel with a dismal face .
`` We sha 'n ' t want these much when all the new thing come ; see if we do , '' say cheerful little Betty , who always find out a silver lining to every cloud .
CHAPTER VIII MISS CELIA 'S MAN Ben be not too tired , and the clearing-up begin that very night .
None too soon , for in a day or two thing arrive , to the great delight of the child , who consider move a most interesting play .
First come the phaeton , which Ben spend all his leisure moment in admire ; wonder with secret envy what happy boy would ride in the little seat up behind , and beguile his task by plan how , when he get rich , he would pass his time drive about in just such an equipage , and invite all the boy he meet to have a ride .
Then a load of furniture come creak in at the lodge gate , and the girl have rapture over a cottage piano , several small chair , and a little low table , which they pronounce just the thing for them to play at .
The live stock appear next , create a great stir in the neighborhood , for peacock be rare bird there ; the donkey 's bray startle the cattle and convulse the people with laughter ; the rabbit be continually get out to burrow in the newly make garden ; and Chevalita scandalize old Duke by dance about the stable which he have inhabit for year in stately solitude .
Last but by no mean least , Miss Celia , her young brother , and two maid arrive one evening so late that only Mrs. Moss go over to help them settle .
The child be much disappointed , but be appease by a promise that they should all go to pay their respect in the morning .
They be up so early , and be so impatient to be off , that Mrs. Moss let them go with the warning that they would find only the servant astir .
She be mistake , however , for , a the procession approach , a voice from the porch call out , `` Good-morning little neighbor ! ''
so unexpectedly , that Bab nearly spill the new milk she carry , Betty give such a start that the fresh-laid egg quite skip in the dish , and Ben 's face break into a broad grin over the armful of clover which he bring for the bunny , a he bob his head , say briskly , -- `` She 's all right , miss , Lita be ; and I can bring her over any minute you say . ''
`` I shall want her at four o'clock .
Thorny will be too tired to drive , but I must hear from the post-office , rain or shine ; '' and Miss Celia 's pretty color brighten a she speak , either from some happy thought or because she be bashful , for the honest young face before her plainly show their admiration of the white-gowned lady under the honeysuckle .
The appearance of Miranda , the maid , remind the child of their errand ; and have deliver their offering , they be about to retire in some confusion , when Miss Celia say pleasantly , -- `` I want to thank you for help put thing in such nice order .
I see sign of busy hand and foot both inside the house and all about the ground , and I be very much oblige . ''
`` I rake the bed , '' say Ben , proudly eye the neat oval and circle .
`` I sweep all the path , '' add Bab , with a reproachful glance at several green sprig fall from the load of clover on the smooth walk .
`` I clear up the porch , '' and Betty 's clean pinafore rise and fell with a long sigh , a she survey the late summer residence of her exiled family .
Miss Celia guess the meaning of that sigh , and make haste to turn it into a smile by ask anxiously , -- `` What have become of the plaything ?
I do n't see them anywhere . ''
`` Ma say you would n't want our dud round , so we take them all home , '' answer Betty , with a wistful face .
`` But I do want them round .
I like doll and toy almost as much a ever , and quite miss the little ` dud ' from porch and path .
Suppose you come to tea with me to-night and bring some of them back ?
I should be very sorry to rob you of your pleasant play-place . ''
`` Oh , yes , 'm , we 'd love to come !
and we 'll bring our best thing . ''
`` Ma always let u have our shiny pitcher and the china poodle when we go visit or have company at home , '' say Bab and Betty , both speak at once .
`` Bring what you like , and I 'll hunt up my toy , too .
Ben be to come also , and his poodle be especially invite , '' add Miss Celia , a Sancho come and beg before her , feel that some agreeable project be under discussion .
`` Thank you , miss .
I tell them you 'd be willing they should come sometimes .
They like this place ever so much , and so do I , '' say Ben , feel that few spot combine so many advantage in the way of climbable tree , arch gate , half-a-dozen gable , and other charm suit to the taste of an aspire youth who have be a fly Cupid at the age of seven .
`` So do I , '' echo Miss Celia , heartily .
`` Ten year ago I come here a little girl , and make lilac chain under these very bush , and pick chickweed over there for my bird , and rode Thorny in his baby-wagon up and down these path .
Grandpa live here then , and we have fine time ; but now they be all go except u two . ''
`` We have n't get any father , either , '' say Bab , for something in Miss Celia 's face make her feel a if a cloud have come over the sun .
`` I have a first-rate father , if I only know where he 'd go to , '' say Ben , look down the path as eagerly a if one wait for him behind the locked gate .
`` You be a rich boy , and you be happy little girl to have so good a mother ; I 've find that out already , '' and the sun shone again a the young lady nod to the neat , rosy child before her .
`` You may have a piece of her if you want to , 'cause you have n't get any of your own , '' say Betty with a pitiful look which make her blue eye as sweet a two wet violet .
`` So I will !
and you shall be my little sister .
I never have any , and I 'd love to try how it seem ; '' and Celia take both the chubby hand in hers , feel ready to love every one this first bright morning in the new home , which she hop to make a very happy one .
Bab give a satisfied nod , and fell to examine the ring upon the white hand that hold her own .
But Betty put her arm about the new friend 's neck , and kiss her so softly that the hungry feeling in Miss Celia 's heart felt well directly ; for this be the food it want , and Thorny have not learn yet to return one half of the affection he receive .
Holding the child close , she play with the yellow braid while she tell them about the little German girl in their funny black-silk cap , short-waisted gown , and wooden shoe , whom she use to see water long web of linen bleaching on the grass , watch great flock of geese , or drive pig to market , knit or spin a they go .
Presently `` Randa , '' a she call her stout maid , come to tell her that `` Master Thorny could n't wait another minute ; '' and she go in to breakfast with a good appetite , while the child race home to bounce in upon Mrs. Moss , talk all at once like little lunatic .
`` The phaeton at four , -- so sweet in a beautiful white gown , -- go to tea , and Sancho and all the baby thing invite .
Ca n't we wear our Sunday frock ?
A splendid new net for Lita .
And she like doll .
Goody , goody , wo n't it be fun ! ''
With much difficulty their mother get a clear account of the approach festivity out of the eager mouth , and with still more difficulty , get breakfast into them , for the child have few pleasure , and this brilliant prospect rather turn their head .
Bab and Betty think the day would never end , and cheer the long hour by expatiate on the pleasure in store for them , till their playmate be much afflict because they be not go also .
At noon their mother keep them from run over to the old house l they should be in the way ; so they console themselves by go to the syringa bush at the corner and sniff the savory odor which come from the kitchen , where Katy , the cook , be evidently make nice thing for tea .
Ben work a if for a wager till four ; then stand over Pat while he curry Lita till her coat shone like satin , then drive her gently down to the coach-house , where he have the satisfaction of harness her `` all his own self '' .
`` Shall I go round to the great gate and wait for you there , miss ? ''
he ask , when all be ready , look up at the porch , where the young lady stand watch him a she put on her glove .
`` No , Ben , the great gate be not to be open till next October .
I shall go in and out by the lodge , and leave the avenue to grass and dandelion , meantime , '' answer Miss Celia , a she step in and take the rein , with a sudden smile .
But she do not start , even when Ben have shake out the new duster and lay it neatly over her knee .
`` Is n't it all right now ? ''
ask the boy , anxiously .
`` Not quite ; I need one thing more .
Ca n't you guess what it be ? ''
and Miss Celia watch his anxious face a his eye wander from the tip of Lita 's ear to the hind-wheel of the phaeton , try to discover what have be omit .
`` No , miss , I do n't see -- '' he begin , much mortify to think he have forget any thing .
`` Would n't a little groom up behind improve the appearance of my turnout ? ''
she say , with a look which leave no doubt in his mind that he be to be the happy boy to occupy that proud perch .
He grow red with pleasure , but stammer , a he hesitate , look down at his bare foot and blue shirt , -- `` I ai n't fit , miss ; and I have n't get any other clothes . ''
Miss Celia only smile again more kindly than before , and answer , in a tone which he understand good than her word , -- `` A great man say his coat-of-arms be a pair of shirt-sleeves , and a sweet poet sang about a barefooted boy ; so I need not be too proud to ride with one .
Up with you , Ben , my man , and let u be off , or we shall be late for our party . ''
With one bound the new groom be in his place , sit very erect , with his leg stiff , arm fold , and nose in the air , a he have see real groom sit behind their master in fine dog-carts or carriage .
Mrs. Moss nod a they drive past the lodge , and Ben touch his torn hat-brim in the most dignified manner , though he could not suppress a broad grin of delight , which deepen into a chuckle when Lita go off at a brisk trot along the smooth road toward town .
It take so little to make a child happy , it be a pity grown people do not oftener remember it and scatter little bit of pleasure before the small people , a they throw crumb to the hungry sparrow .
Miss Celia know the boy be pleased , but he have no word in which to express his gratitude for the great contentment she have give him .
He could only beam at all he meet , smile when the float end of the gray veil blew against his face , and long in his heart to give the new friend a boyish hug , a he use to do his dear ` Melia when she be very good to him .
School be just out a they pass ; and it be a spectacle , I assure you , to see the boy and girl stare at Ben up aloft in such state ; also to see the superb indifference with which that young man regard the vulgar herd who go afoot .
He could n't resist an affable nod to Bab and Betty , for they stand under the maple-tree , and the memory of their circulating library make him forget his dignity in his gratitude .
`` We will take them next time , but now I want to talk to you , '' begin Miss Celia , a Lita climb the hill .
`` My brother have be ill , and I have bring him here to get well .
I want to do all sort of thing to amuse him , and I think you can help me in many way .
Would you like to work for me instead of the Squire ?
`` I guess I would ! ''
ejaculate Ben , so heartily that no further assurance be need , and Miss Celia go on , well pleased : -- `` You see , poor Thorny be weak and fretful , and do not like to exert himself , though he ought to be out a great deal , and keep from thinking of his little trouble .
He can not walk much yet , so I have a wheeled chair to push him in ; and the path be so hard , it will be easy to roll him about .
That will be one thing you can do .
Another be to take care of his pet till he be able to do it himself .
Then you can tell him your adventure , and talk to him a only a boy can talk to a boy .
That will amuse him when I want to write or go out ; but I never leave him long , and hope he will soon be run about as well a the rest of u .
How do that sort of work look to you ? ''
`` First-rate !
I 'll take real good care of the little feller , and do every thing I know to please him , and so will Sanch ; he 's fond of child , '' answer Ben , heartily , for the new place look very invite to him .
Miss Celia laugh , and rather damp his ardor by her next word .
`` I do n't know what Thorny would say to hear you call him ` little . '
He be fourteen , and appear to get taller and taller every day .
He seem like a child to me , because I be nearly ten year old than he be ; but you need n't be afraid of his long leg and big eye , he be too feeble to do any harm ; only you must n't mind if he order you about . ''
`` I 'm use to that .
I do n't mind it if he wo n't call me a ` spalpeen , ' and fire thing at me , '' say Ben , thinking of his late trial with Pat .
`` I can promise that ; and I be sure Thorny will like you , for I tell him your story , and he be anxious to see ` the circus boy ' a he call you .
Squire Allen say I may trust you , and I be glad to do so , for it save me much trouble to find what I want all ready for me .
You shall be well feed and clothe , kindly treat and honestly pay , if you like to stay with me . ''
`` I know I shall like it -- till father come , anyway .
Squire write to Smithers right off , but have n't get any answer yet .
I know they be on the go now , so may be we wo n't hear for ever so long , '' answer Ben , feel less impatient to be off than before this fine proposal be make to him .
`` I dare say ; meantime , we will see how we get on together , and perhaps your father will be willing leave you for the summer if he be away .
Now show me the baker 's , the candy-shop , and the post-office , '' say Miss Celia , a they rattle down the main street of the village .
Ben make himself useful ; and when all the other errand be do , receive his reward in the shape of a new pair of shoe and a straw hat with a stream blue ribbon , on the end of which shone silvery anchor .
He be also allow to drive home , while his new mistress read her letter .
One particularly long one , with a queer stamp on the envelope , she read twice , never speak a word till they get back .
Then Ben be send off with Lita and the Squire 's letter , promise to get his chore do in time for tea .
CHAPTER IX A HAPPY TEA Exactly five minute before six the party arrive in great state , for Bab and Betty wear their best frock and hair-ribbons , Ben have a new blue shirt and his shoe on a full-dress , and Sancho 's curl be nicely brush , his frill as white a if just do up .
No one be visible to receive them , but the low table stood in the middle of the walk , with four chair and a foot-stool around it .
A pretty set of green and white china cause the girl to cast admire look upon the little cup and plate , while Ben eye the feast longingly , and Sancho with difficulty restrain himself from repeat his former naughtiness .
No wonder the dog sniffed and the child smile , for there be a noble display of little tart and cake , little biscuit and sandwich , a pretty milk-pitcher shape like a white calla rise out of it green leaf , and a jolly little tea-kettle sing away over the spirit-lamp as cosily a you please .
`` Is n't it perfectly lovely ? ''
whisper Betty , who have never see any thing like it before .
`` I just wish Sally could see u now , '' answer Bab , who have not yet forgive her enemy .
`` Wonder where the boy be , '' add Ben , feeling as good a any one , but rather doubtful how others might regard him .
Here a rumble sound cause the guest to look toward the garden , and in a moment Miss Celia appear , push a wheeled chair , in which sit her brother .
A gay afghan cover the long leg , a broad-brimmed hat half hide the big eye , and a discontented expression make the thin face as unattractive a the fretful voice , which say , complainingly , -- `` If they make a noise , I 'll go in .
Do n't see what you ask them for . ''
`` To amuse you , dear .
I know they will , if you will only try to like them , '' whisper the sister , smile , and nod over the chair-back a she come on , add aloud , `` Such a punctual party !
I be all ready , however , and we will sit down at once .
This be my brother Thornton , and we be all go to be very good friend by-and-by .
Here 's the droll dog , Thorny ; be n't he nice and curly ? ''
Now , Ben have hear what the other boy say , and make up his mind that he should n't like him ; and Thorny have decide beforehand that he would n't play with a tramp , even if he cut caper ; go both look decidedly cool and indifferent when Miss Celia introduce them .
But Sancho have good manner and no foolish pride ; he , therefore , set them a good example by approach the chair , with his tail waving like a flag of truce , and politely present his ruffled paw for a hearty shake .
Thorny could not resist that appeal , and pat the white head , with a friendly look into the affectionate eye of the dog , say to his sister a he do so , -- `` What a wise old fellow he be !
It seem a if he could almost speak , do n't it ? ''
`` He can .
Say ` How do you do , ' Sanch , '' command Ben , relent at once , for he saw admiration in Thorny 's face .
`` Wow , wow , wow ! ''
remark Sancho , in a mild and conversational tone , sit up and touch one paw to his head , a if he salute by take off his hat .
Thorny laugh in spite of himself , and Miss Celia see that the ice be break , wheel him to his place at the foot of the table .
Then , seat the little girl on one side , Ben and the dog on the other , take the head herself and tell her guest to begin .
Bab and Betty be soon chatter away to their pleasant hostess as freely a if they have know her for month ; but the boy be still rather shy , and make Sancho the medium through which they address one another .
The excellent beast behave with wonderful propriety , sit upon his cushion in an attitude of such dignity that it seem almost a liberty to offer him food .
A dish of thick sandwich have be provide for his especial refreshment ; and , a Ben from time to time laid one on his plate , he affect entire unconsciousness of it till the word be give , when it vanish at one gulp , and Sancho again appear absorb in deep thought .
But , have once taste of this please delicacy , it be very hard to repress his long for more ; and , in spite of all his effort , his nose would work , his eye keep a keen watch upon that particular dish , and his tail quiver with excitement a it lay like a train over the red cushion .
At last , a moment come when temptation prove too strong for him .
Ben be listen to something Miss Celia say ; a tart lay unguarded upon his plate ; Sanch look at Thorny who be watch him ; Thorny nod , Sanch give one wink , bolt the tart , and then gaze pensively up at a sparrow swing on a twig overhead .
The slyness of the rascal tickle the boy so much that he push back his hat , clap his hand , and burst out laugh a he have not do before for week .
Every one look round surprise , and Sancho regard them with a mildly inquiring air , a if he say , `` Why this unseemly mirth , my friend ? ''
Thorny forget both sulk and shyness after that , and suddenly begin to talk .
Ben be flatter by his interest in the dear dog , and open out so delightfully that he soon charm the other by his lively tale of circus-life .
Then Miss Celia felt relieve , and every thing go splendidly , especially the food ; for the plate be empty several time , the little tea-pot ran dry twice , and the hostess be just wonder if she ought to stop her voracious guest , when something occur which spar her that painful task .
A small boy be suddenly discover standing in the path behind them , regard the company with an air of solemn interest .
A pretty , well-dressed child of six , with dark hair cut short across the brow , a rosy face , a stout pair of leg , leave bare by the sock which have slip down over the dusty little shoe .
One end of a wide sash trail behind him , a straw hat hung at his back , his right hand firmly grasp a small turtle , and his leave a choice collection of stick .
Before Miss Celia could speak , the stranger calmly announce his mission .
`` I have come to see the peacock . ''
`` You shall presently -- '' begin Miss Celia , but get no further , for the child add , come a step nearer , -- `` And the wabbits . ''
`` Yes , but first wo n't you -- '' `` And the curly dog , '' continue the small voice , a another step bring the resolute young personage nearer .
`` There he be . ''
A pause , a long look ; then a new demand with the same solemn tone , the same advance .
`` I wish to hear the donkey bray . ''
`` Certainly , if he will . ''
`` And the peacock scream . ''
`` Any thing more , sir ? ''
Having reach the table by this time , the insatiable infant survey it ravaged surface , then point a fat little finger at the last cake , leave for manner , and say , commandingly , -- `` I will have some of that . ''
`` Help yourself ; and sit upon the step to eat it , while you tell me whose boy you be , '' say Miss Celia , much amuse at his proceeding .
Deliberately put down his stick , the child take the cake , and , compose himself upon the step , answer with his rosy mouth full , -- `` I be papa 's boy .
He make a paper .
I help him a great deal . ''
`` What be his name ? ''
`` Mr. Barlow .
We live in Springfield , '' volunteer the new guest , unbend a trifle , thanks to the charm of the cake .
`` Have you a mamma , dear ? ''
`` She take nap .
I go to walk then . ''
`` Without leave , I suspect .
Have you no brother or sister to go with you ? ''
ask Miss Celia , wonder where the little runaway belong .
`` I have two brother , Thomas Merton Barlow and Harry Sanford Barlow .
I be Alfred Tennyson Barlow .
We do n't have any girl in our house , only Bridget . ''
`` Do n't you go to school ? ''
`` The boy do .
I do n't learn any Greeks and Latins yet .
I dig , and read to mamma , and make poetry for her . ''
`` Could n't you make some for me ?
I 'm very fond of poetry , '' propose Miss Celia , see that this prattle amuse the child .
`` I guess I could n't make any now ; I make some come along .
I will say it to you . ''
And , cross his short leg , the inspired babe half say , half sing the following poem : -LRB- 1 -RRB- `` Sweet be the flower of life , Swept o'er my happy day at home ; Sweet be the flower of life When I be a little child .
`` Sweet be the flower of life That I spend with my father at home ; Sweet be the flower of life When child play about the house .
`` Sweet be the flower of life When the lamp be light at night ; Sweet be the flower of life When the flower of summer bloom .
`` Sweet be the flower of life Dead with the snow of winter ; Sweet be the flower of life When the day of spring come on .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- These line be actually compose by a six-year old child .
`` That 's all of that one .
I make another one when I digged after the turtle .
I will say that .
It be a very pretty one , '' observe the poet with charm candor ; and , take a long breath , he tune his little lyre afresh : Sweet , sweet day be pass O'er my happy home .
Passing on swift wing through the valley of life .
Cold be the day when winter come again .
When my sweet day be pass at my happy home , Sweet be the day on the rivulet 's green brink ; Sweet be the day when I read my father 's book ; Sweet be the winter day when bright fire be blaze . ''
`` Bless the baby !
where do he get all that ? ''
exclaim Miss Celia , amaze ; while the child giggle a Tennyson , Jr. , take a bite at the turtle instead of the half-eaten cake , and then , to prevent further mistake , cram the unhappy creature into a diminutive pocket in the most business-like way imaginable .
`` It come out of my head .
I make lot of them , '' begin the imperturbable one , yield more and more to the social influence of the hour .
`` Here be the peacock come to be feed , '' interrupt Bab , a the handsome bird appear with their splendid plumage glittering in the sun .
Young Barlow rise to admire ; but his thirst for knowledge be not yet quench , and he be about to request a song from Juno and Jupiter , when old Jack , pin for society , put his head over the garden wall with a tremendous bray .
This unexpected sound startle the inquiring stranger half out of his wit ; for a moment the stout leg stagger and the solemn countenance lose it composure , a he whisper , with an astonished air , `` Is that the way peacocks scream ? ''
The child be in fit of laughter , and Miss Celia could hardly make herself heard a she answer merrily , -- `` No , dear ; that be the donkey ask you to come and see him : will you go ?
`` I guess I could n't stop now .
Mamma might want me . ''
And , without another word , the discomfited poet precipitately retire , leave his cherished stick behind him .
Ben ran after the child to see that he come to no harm , and presently return to report that Alfred have be meet by a servant , and go away chant a new verse of his poem , in which peacock , donkey , and `` the flower of life '' be sweetly mingle .
`` Now I 'll show you my toy , and we 'll have a little play before it get too late for Thorny to stay with u , '' say Miss Celia , a Randa carry away the tea-things and bring back a large tray full of picture-books , dissect map , puzzle , game , and several pretty model of animal , the whole crown with a large doll dress a a baby .
At sight of that , Betty stretch out her arm to receive it with a cry of delight .
Bab seize the game , and Ben be lose in admiration of the little Arab chief prance on the white horse , -- all saddle and bridle and fit for the fight .
Thorny poke about to find a certain curious puzzle which he could put together without a mistake after long study .
Even Sancho find something to interest him ; and , stand on his hind-legs , thrust his head between the boy to paw at several red and blue letter on square block .
`` He look a if he know them , '' say Thorny , amuse at the dog 's eager whine and scratch .
`` He do .
Spell your name , Sanch ; '' and Ben put all the gay letter down upon the flag with a chirrup which set the dog 's tail to wag a he wait till the alphabet be spread before him .
Then , with great deliberation , he push the letter about till he have pick out six ; these he arrange with nose and paw till the word `` Sancho '' lay before him correctly spell .
`` Is n't that clever ?
Can he do any more ? ''
cry Thorny , delight .
`` Lots ; that 's the way he get his livin ' , and mine too , '' answer Ben ; and proudly put his poodle through his well-learned lesson with such success that even Miss Celia be surprise .
`` He have be carefully train .
Do you know how it be do ? ''
she ask , when Sancho lay down to rest and be caress by the child .
`` No , 'm , father do it when I be a little chap , and never tell me how .
I use to help teach him to dance , and that be easy enough , he be so smart .
Father say the middle of the night be the best time to give him his lesson ; it be so still then , and nothing disturbed Sanch and make him forget .
I ca n't do half the trick , but I 'm goin ' to learn when father come back .
He 'd rather have me show off Sanch than ride , till I 'm old . ''
`` I have a charming book about animal , and in it an interesting account of some trained poodle who could do the most wonderful thing .
Would you like to hear it while you put your map and puzzle together ? ''
ask Miss Celia , glad to keep her brother interested in their four-footed guest at least .
`` Yes , 'm , yes , 'm , '' answer the child ; and , fetch the book , she read the pretty account , shorten and simplify it here and there to suit her hearer .
`` I invite the two dog to dine and spend the evening ; and they come with their master , who be a Frenchman .
He have be a teacher in a deaf and dumb school , and think he would try the same plan with dog .
He have also be a conjurer , and now be support by Blanche and her daughter Lyda .
These dog behave at dinner just like other dog ; but when I give Blanche a bit of cheese and ask if she know the word for it , her master say she could spell it .
So a table be arrange with a lamp on it , and round the table be lay the letter of the alphabet paint on card .
Blanche sit in the middle , wait till her master tell her to spell cheese , which she at once do in French , F R O M A G E .
Then she translate a word for u very cleverly .
Some one write pferd , the German for horse , on a slate .
Blanche look at it and pretend to read it , put by the slate with her paw when she have do .
` Now give u the French for that word , ' say the man ; and she instantly bring CHEVAL .
` Now , a you be at an Englishman 's house , give it to u in English ; ' and she bring me HORSE .
Then we spell some word wrong , and she correct them with wonderful accuracy .
But she do not seem to like it , and whine and growl and look so worried , that she be allow to go and rest and eat cake in a corner .
`` Then Lyda take her place on the table , and do sum on the slate with a set of figure .
Also mental arithmetic , which be very pretty .
` Now , Lyda , ' say her master , ' I want to see if you understand division .
Suppose you have ten bit of sugar , and you meet ten Prussian dog , how many lump would you , a French dog , give to each of the Prussians ? '
Lyda very decidedly reply to this with a cipher .
` But , suppose you divide your sugar with me , how many lump would you give me ? '
Lyda take up the figure five and politely present it to her master . ''
`` Was n't she smart ?
Sanch ca n't do that , '' exclaim Ben , force to own that the French doggie beat his cherished pet .
`` He be not too old to learn .
Shall I go on ? ''
ask Miss Celia , see that the boy like it , though Betty be absorb with the doll , and Bab deep in a puzzle .
`` Oh , yes !
What else do they do ? ''
`` They play a game of domino together , sit in chair opposite each other , and touch the domino that be want ; but the man place them and keep tell how the game go .
Lyda be beat , and hid under the sofa , evidently feel very badly about it .
Blanche be then surround with playing-cards , while her master hold another pack and tell u to choose a card ; then he ask her what one have be choose , and she always take up the right one in her teeth .
I be ask to go into another room , put a light on the floor with card round it , and leave the door nearly shut .
Then the man beg some one to whisper in the dog 's ear what card she be to bring , and she go at once and fetch it , thus show that she understand their name .
Lyda do many trick with the number , so curious that no dog could possibly understand them ; yet what the secret sign be I could not discover , but suppose it must have be in the tone of the master 's voice , for he certainly make none with either head or hand .
`` It take an hour a day for eighteen month to educate a dog enough to appear in public , and -LRB- a you say , Ben -RRB- the night be the best time to give the lesson .
Soon after this visit , the master die ; and these wonderful dog be sell because their mistress do not know how to exhibit them . ''
`` Would n't I have like to see 'em and find out how they be teach !
Sanch , you 'll have to study up lively , for I 'm not go to have you beat by French dog , '' say Ben , shake his finger so sternly that Sancho grovel at his foot and put both paw over his eye in the most abject manner .
`` Is there a picture of those smart little poodle ? ''
ask Ben , eye the book , which Miss Celia leave open before her .
`` Not of them , but of other interesting creature ; also anecdotes about horse , which will please you , I know , '' and she turn the page for him , neither guess how much good Mr. Hamerton 's charm `` Chapters on Animals '' be to do the boy when he need comfort for a sorrow which be very near .
CHAPTER X A HEAVY TROUBLE `` Thank you , ma'am , that 's a tip-top book , ` specially the picture .
But I ca n't bear to see these poor fellow ; '' and Ben brood over the fine etching of the dead and die horse on a battle-field , one past all far pain , the other helpless , but lift his head from his dead master to neigh a farewell to the comrade who go gallop away in a cloud of dust .
`` They ought to stop for him , some of 'em , '' mutter Ben , hastily turn back to the cheerful picture of the three happy horse in the field , stand knee-deep among the grass a they prepare to drink at the wide stream .
`` Ai n't that black one a beauty ?
Seems a if I could see his mane blow in the wind , and hear him whinny to that small feller trot down to see if he ca n't get over and be sociable .
How I 'd like to take a rousin ' run round that meadow on the whole lot of 'em ! ''
and Ben sway about in his chair a if he be already do it in imagination .
`` You may take a turn round my field on Lita any day .
She would like it , and Thorny 's saddle will be here next week , '' say Miss Celia , please to see that the boy appreciate the fine picture , and felt such hearty sympathy with the noble animal whom she dearly love herself .
`` Need n't wait for that .
I 'd rather ride bareback .
Oh , I say , be this the book you tell about , where the horse talk ? ''
ask Ben , suddenly recollect the speech he have puzzle over ever since he hear it .
`` No ; I bring the book , but in the hurry of my tea-party forgot to unpack it .
I 'll hunt it up to-night .
Remind me , Thorny . ''
`` There , now , I 've forget something , too !
Squire send you a letter ; and I 'm have such a jolly time , I never think of it . ''
Ben rummage out the note with remorseful haste , protest that he be in no hurry for Mr. Gulliver , and very glad to save him for another day .
Leaving the young folk busy with their game , Miss Celia sit in the porch to read her letter , for there be two ; and a she read her face grow so sober , then so sad , that if any one have be look he would have wonder what bad news have chase away the sunshine so suddenly .
No one do look ; no one saw how pitifully her eye rest on Ben 's happy face when the letter be put away , and no one mind the new gentleness in her manner a she come back , to the table .
But Ben think there never be so sweet a lady a the one who lean over him to show him how the dissected map go together and never smile at his mistake .
So kind , so very kind be she to them all , that when , after an hour of merry play , she take her brother in to bed , the three who remain fell to praise her enthusiastically a they put thing to right before take leave .
`` She 's like the good fairy in the book , and have all sort of nice , pretty thing in her house , '' say Betty , enjoy a last hug of the fascinating doll whose lid would shut so that it be a pleasure to Sing , `` Bye , sweet baby , bye , '' with no star eye to Spoil the illusion .
`` What heap she know !
More than Teacher , I do believe ; and she do n't mind how many question we ask .
I like folk that will tell me thing , '' add Bab , whose inquisitive mind be always hungry .
`` I like that boy first-rate , and I guess he like me , though I do n't know where Nantucket ought to go .
He want me to teach him to ride when he 's on his pin again , and Miss Celia say I may .
She know how to make folk feel good , do n't she ? ''
and Ben gratefully survey the Arab chief , now his own , though the best of all the collection .
`` Wo n't we have splendid time ?
She Says we may come over every night and play with her and Thorny . ''
`` And she 's goin ' , to have the seat in the porch lift up , so we can put our thing in there all day and have 'em handy . ''
`` And I 'm go to be her boy , and stay here all the time .
I guess the letter I bring be a recommend from the Squire . ''
`` Yes , Ben ; and if I have not already make up my mind to keep you before , I certainly would now , my boy . ''
Something in Miss Celia 's voice , a she say the last two word with her hand on Ben 's shoulder , make him look up quickly and turn red with pleasure , wonder what the Squire have write about him .
`` Mother must have some of the party ; so you shall take her these , Bab , and Betty may carry Baby home for the night .
She be so nicely asleep , it be a pity to wake her .
Good by till to-morrow , little neighbor , '' continue Miss Celia , and dismiss the girl with a kiss .
`` Is Ben come , too ? ''
ask Bab , a Betty trot off in a silent rapture with the big darling bobbing over her shoulder .
`` Not yet ; I 've several thing to settle with my new man .
Tell mother he will come by-and-by . ''
Off rush Bab with the plateful of goody ; and , draw Ben down beside her on the wide step , Miss Celia take out the letter , with a shadow creeping over her face as softly a the twilight be steal over the world , while the dew fell , and every thing grow still and dim .
`` Ben , dear , I 've something to tell you , '' she begin , slowly ; and the boy wait with a happy face , for no one have call him so since ` Melia die .
`` The Squire have hear about your father , and this be the letter Mr. Smithers send . ''
`` Hooray !
where be he , please ? ''
cry Ben , wish she would hurry up ; for Miss Celia do not even offer him the letter , but sit look down at Sancho on the low step , a if she want him to come and help her .
`` He go after the mustang , and send some home , but could not come himself . ''
`` Went far on , I s ` pose .
Yes , he say he might go as far a California , and if he do he 'd send for me .
I 'd like to go there ; it 's a real splendid place , they say . ''
`` He have go far away than that , to a lovely country than California , I hope . ''
And Miss Celia 's eye turn to the deep sky , where early star be shin .
`` Did n't he send for me ?
Where 's he go ?
When 's he come back ? ''
ask Ben , quickly ; for there be a quiver in her voice , the meaning of which he felt before he understand .
Miss Celia put her arm about him , and answer very tenderly , -- `` Ben , dear , if I be to tell you that he be never come back , could you bear it ? ''
`` I guess I could , -- but you do n't mean it ?
Oh , ma'am , he be n't dead ? ''
cry Ben , with a cry that make her heart ache , and Sancho leap up with a bark .
`` My poor little boy , I wish I could say no . ''
There be no need of any more word , no need of tear or kind arm around him .
He know he be an orphan now , and turn instinctively to the old friend who love him best .
Throwing himself down beside his dog , Ben clung about the curly neck , sob bitterly , -- `` Oh , Sanch , he 's never come back again ; never , never any more ! ''
Poor Sancho could only whine and lick away the tear that wet the half-hidden face , question the new friend meantime with eye so full of dumb love and sympathy and sorrow that they seem almost human .
Wiping away her own tear , Miss Celia stoop to pat the white head , and to stroke the black one lie so near it that the dog 's breast be the boy 's pillow .
Presently the sobbing cease , and Ben whisper , without look up , -- `` Tell me all about it ; I 'll be good . ''
Then , as kindly a she could , Miss Celia read the brief letter which tell the hard news bluntly ; for Mr. Smithers be oblige to confess that he have know the truth month before , and never tell the boy , lest he should be unfit for the work they give him .
Of Ben Brown the elder 's death there be little to tell , except that he be kill in some wild place at the West , and a stranger write the fact to the only person whose name be find in Ben 's pocket-book .
Mr. Smithers offer to take the boy back and `` do well by him , '' aver that the father wish his son to remain where he leave him , and follow the profession to which he be train .
`` Will you go , Ben ? ''
ask Miss Celia , hop to distract his mind from his grief by speaking of other thing .
`` No , no ; I 'd rather tramp and starve .
He 's awful hard to me and Sanch ; and he 'd be bad , now father 's go .
Do n't send me back !
Let me stay here ; folk be good to me ; there 's nowhere else to go . ''
And the head Ben have lift up with a desperate sort of look , go down again on Sancho 's breast a if there be no other refuge leave .
`` You shall stay here , and no one shall take you away against your will .
I call you ` my boy ' in play , now you shall be my boy in earnest ; this shall be your home , and Thorny your brother .
We be orphan , too ; and we will stand by one another till a strong friend come to help u , '' say Miss Celia , with such a mixture of resolution and tenderness in her voice , that Ben felt comfort at once , and thank her by lay his cheek against the pretty slipper that rest on the step beside him , a if he have no word in which to swear loyalty to the gentle mistress whom he mean henceforth to serve with grateful fidelity .
Sancho felt that he must follow suit ; and gravely put his paw upon her knee , with a low whine , a if he say , `` Count me in , and let me help to pay my master 's debt if I can . ''
Miss Celia shake the offer paw cordially , and the good creature crouch at her foot like a small lion , bound to guard her and her house for evermore .
`` Do n't lie on that cold stone , Ben ; come here and let me try to comfort you , '' she say , stoop to wipe away the great drop that keep roll down the brown cheek half hidden in her dress .
But Ben put his arm over his face , and sob out with a fresh burst of grief , -- `` You ca n't , you do n't know him !
Oh , daddy !
daddy !
if I 'd only see you jest once more ! ''
No one could grant that wish ; but Miss Celia do comfort him , for presently the sound of music float out from the parlor , -- music so soft , so sweet , that involuntarily the boy stop his cry to listen ; then quieter tear drop slowly , seem to soothe his pain a they fell , while the sense of loneliness pass away , and it grow possible to wait till it be time to go to father in that far-off country lovely than golden California .
How long she play Miss Celia never mind ; but , when she steal out to see if Ben have go , she find that other friend , even kind than herself , have take the boy into their gentle keep .
The wind have sing a lullaby among the rustle lilac , the moon 's mild face look through the leafy arch to kiss the heavy eyelid , and faithful Sancho still keep guard beside his little master , who , with his head pillow on his arm , lay fast asleep , dream , happily , that Daddy have come home again .
CHAPTER XI SUNDAY Mrs. Moss wake Ben with a kiss next morning , for her heart yearn over the fatherless lad a if he have be her own , and she have no other way of show her sympathy .
Ben have forget his trouble in sleep ; but the memory of them return as soon a he open his eye , heavy with the tear they have shed .
He do not cry any more , but felt strange and lonely till he call Sancho and tell him all about it , for he be shy even with kind Mrs. Moss , and glad when she go away .
Sancho seem to understand that his master be in trouble , and listen to the sad little story with gurgle of interest , whine of condolence , and intelligent bark whenever the word `` daddy '' be utter .
He be only a brute , but his dumb affection comfort the boy more than any word ; for Sanch have know and love `` father '' almost a long and well a his son , and that seem to draw them closely together , now they be leave alone .
`` We must put on mourning , old feller .
It 's the proper thing , and there 's nobody else to do it now , '' say Ben , a he dress , remember how all the company wear bit of crape somewhere about them at ` Melia 's funeral .
It be a real sacrifice of boyish vanity to take the blue ribbon with it silver anchor off the new hat , and replace it with the dingy black band from the old one ; but Ben be quite sincere in do this , though doubtless his theatrical life make him think of the effect more than other lad would have do .
He could find nothing in his limited wardrobe with which to decorate Sanch except a black cambric pocket .
It be already half tear out of his trouser with the weight of nail , pebble , and other light trifle ; so he give it a final wrench and tie it into the dog 's collar , say to himself , a he put away his treasure , with a sigh , -- `` One pocket be enough ; I sha 'n ' t want anything but a han ` k ` chi ' f to-day . ''
Fortunately , that article of dress be clean , for he have but one ; and , with this somewhat ostentatiously droop from the solitary pocket , the serious hat upon his head , the new shoe creak mournfully , and Sanch gravely follow , much impress with his black bow , the chief mourner descend , feel that he have do his best to show respect to the dead .
Mrs. Moss 's eye fill a she saw the rusty band , and guess why it be there ; but she find it difficult to repress a smile when she behold the cambric symbol of woe on the dog 's neck .
Not a word be say to disturb the boy 's comfort in these poor attempt , however ; and he go out to do his chore , conscious that he be an object of interest to his friend , especially so to Bab and Betty , who , have be tell of Ben 's loss , now regard him with a sort of pity awe very grateful to his feeling .
`` I want you to drive me to church by-and-by .
It be go to be pretty warm , and Thorny be hardly strong enough to venture yet , '' say Miss Celia , when Ben run over after breakfast to see if she have any thing for him to do ; for he consider her his mistress now , though he be not to take possession of his new quarter till the morrow .
`` Yes , 'm , I 'd like to , if I look well enough , '' answer Ben , please to be ask , but impress with the idea that people have to be very fine on such occasion .
`` You will do very well when I have give you a touch .
God do n't mind our clothes , Ben , and the poor be as welcome a the rich to him .
You have not be much , have you ? ''
ask Miss Celia , anxious to help the boy , and not quite sure how to begin .
`` No , 'm ; our folk do n't hardly ever go , and father be so tired he use to rest Sundays , or go off in the wood with me . ''
A little quaver come into Ben 's voice a he speak , and a sudden motion make his hat-brim hide his eye , for the thought of the happy time that would never come any more be almost too much for him .
`` That be a pleasant way to rest .
I often do so , and we will go to the grove this afternoon and try it .
But I have to go to church in the morning ; it seem to start me right for the week ; and if one have a sorrow that be the place where one can always find comfort .
Will you come and try it , Ben , dear ? ''
`` I 'd do any thing to please you , '' mutter Ben , without look up ; for , though he felt her kindness to the bottom of his heart , he do wish that no one would talk about father for a little while ; it be so hard to keep from cry , and he hat to be a baby .
Miss Celia seem to understand , for the next thing she say , in a very cheerful tone , be , `` See what a pretty sight that be .
When I be a little girl I use to think spider spin cloth for the fairy , and spread it on the grass to bleach . ''
Ben stop dig a hole in the ground with his toe , and look up , to see a lovely cobweb like a wheel , circle within circle , spun across a corner of the arch over the gate .
Tiny drop glitter on every thread a the light shone through the gossamer curtain , and a soft breath of air make it tremble a if about to blow it away .
`` It 's mighty pretty , but it will fly off , just a the others do .
I never saw such a chap a that spider be .
He keep on spin a new one every day , for they always get broke , and he do n't seem to be discourage a mite , '' say Ben , glad to change the subject , a she know he would be .
`` That be the way he get his living , he spin his web and wait for his daily bread , -- or fly , rather ; and it always come , I fancy .
By-and-by you will see that pretty trap full of insect , and Mr. Spider will lay up his provision for the day .
After that he do n't care how soon his fine web blow away . ''
`` I know him ; he 's a handsome feller , all black and yellow , and live up in that corner where the shiny sort of hole be .
He dive down the minute I touch the gate , but come up after I 've keep still a minute .
I like to watch him .
But he must hate me , for I take away a nice green fly and some little miller one day . ''
`` Did you ever hear the story of Bruce and his spider ?
Most child know and like that , '' say Miss Celia , see that he seem interested .
`` No , 'm ; I do n't know ever so many thing most child do , '' answer Ben , soberly ; for , since he have be among his new friend , he have often felt his own deficiency .
`` Ah , but you also know many thing which they do not .
Half the boy in town would give a great deal to be able to ride and run and leap a you do ; and even the old be not a capable of take care of themselves a you be .
Your active life have do much in some way to make a man of you ; but in other way it be bad , a I think you begin to see .
Now , suppose you try to forget the harmful part , and remember only the good , while learn to be more like our boy , who go to school and church , and fit themselves to become industrious , honest men . ''
Ben have be look straight up in Miss Celia 's face a she speak , feel that every word be true , though he could not have express it if he have try ; and , when she pause , with her bright eye inquiringly fix on his , he answer heartily , -- `` I 'd like to stay here and be respectable ; for , since I come , I 've find out that folk do n't think much of circus rider , though they like to go and see 'em .
I do n't use to care about school and such thing , but I do now ; and I guess he 'd like it good than to have me knockin ' round that way without him to look after me . ''
`` I know he would ; so we will try , Benny .
I dare say it will seem dull and hard at first , after the gay sort of life you have lead , and you will miss the excitement .
But it be not good for you , and we will do our best to find something safer .
Do n't be discourage ; and , when thing trouble you , come to me a Thorny do , and I 'll try to straighten them out for you .
I 've get two boy now , and I want to do my duty by both . ''
Before Ben have time for more than a grateful look , a tumbled head appear at an upper window , and a sleepy voice drawl out , -- `` Celia !
I ca n't find a bit of a shoe-string , and I wish you 'd come and do my neck-tie . ''
`` Lazy boy , come down here , and bring one of your black tie with you .
Shoe-strings be in the little brown bag on my bureau , '' call back Miss Celia ; add , with a laugh , a the tumbled head disappear mumble something about `` bother old bag '' , `` Thorny have be half spoiled since he be ill .
You must n't mind his fidget and dawdle way .
He 'll get over them soon , and then I know you two will be good friend . ''
Ben have his doubt about that , but resolve to do his best for her sake ; so , when Master Thorny presently appear , with a careless `` How be you , Ben ? ''
that young person answer respectfully , -- `` Very well , thank you , '' though his nod be as condescend a his new master 's ; because he felt that a boy who could ride bareback and turn a double somersault in the air ought not to `` knuckle under '' to a fellow who have not the strength of a pussy-cat .
`` Sailor 's knot , please ; keep well so , '' say Thorny , hold up his chin to have a blue-silk scarf tie to suit him , for he be already begin to be something of a dandy .
`` You ought to wear red till you get more color , dear ; '' and his sister rub her bloom cheek against his pale one , a if to lend him some of her own rose .
`` Men do n't care how they look , '' say Thorny , squirm out of her hold , for he hat to be `` cuddle '' before people .
`` Oh , do n't they ?
Here 's a vain boy who brush his hair a dozen time a day , and quiddles over his collar till he be so tired he can hardly stand , '' laugh Miss Celia , with a little tweak of his ear .
`` I should like to know what this be for ? ''
demand Thorny , in a dignified tone , present a black tie .
`` For my other boy .
He be go to church with me , '' and Miss Celia tie a second knot for this young gentleman , with a smile that seem to brighten up even the rusty hat-band .
`` Well , I like that -- '' begin Thorny , in a tone that contradict his word .
A look from his sister remind him of what she have tell him half an hour ago , and he stop short , understanding now why she be `` extra good to the little tramp . ''
`` So do I , for you be of no use a a driver yet , and I do n't like to fasten Lita when I have my best glove on , '' say Miss Celia , in a tone that rather nettle Master Thorny .
`` Is Ben go to black my boot before he go ?
with a glance at the new shoe which cause them to creak uneasily .
`` No ; he be go to black mine , if he will be so kind .
You wo n't need boot for a week yet , so we wo n't waste any time over them .
You will find every thing in the shed , Ben ; and at ten you may go for Lita . ''
With that , Miss Celia walk her brother off to the diningroom , and Ben retire to vent his ire in such energetic demonstration with the blacking-brush that the little boots shone splendidly .
He think he have never see any thing as pretty a his mistress when , an hour later , she come out of the house in her white shawl and bonnet , hold a book and a late lily-of-the-valley in the pearl-colored glove , which he hardly dare to touch a he help her into the carriage .
He have see a good many fine lady in his life ; and those he have know have be very gay in the color of their hat and gown , very fond of cheap jewelry , and much give to feather , lace , and furbelow ; so it rather puzzle him to discover why Miss Celia look so sweet and elegant in such a simple suit .
He do not then know that the charm be in the woman , not the clothes ; or that merely live near such a person would do more to give him gentle manner , good principle , and pure thought , than almost any other training he could have have .
But he be conscious that it be pleasant to be there , neatly dress , in good company , and go to church like a respectable boy .
Somehow , the lonely feeling get well a he roll along between green field , with the June sunshine brighten every thing , a restful quiet in the air , and a friend beside him who sit silently look out at the lovely world with what he afterward learn to call her `` Sunday face , '' -- a soft , happy look , a if all the work and weariness of the past week be forget , and she be ready to begin afresh when this bless day be over .
`` Well , child , what be it ? ''
she ask , catch his eye a he steal a shy glance at her , one of many which she have not see .
`` I be only think , you look a if -- '' `` As if what ?
Do n't be afraid , '' she say , for Ben pause and fumble at the rein , feel half ashamed to tell his fancy .
`` You be say prayer , '' he add , wish she have not catch him .
`` So I be .
Do n't you , when you be happy ?
`` No , 'm .
I 'm glad , but I do n't say any thing . ''
`` Words be not need ; but they help , sometimes , if they be sincere and sweet .
Did you never learn any prayer , Ben ? ''
`` Only ` Now I lay me . '
Grandma teach me that when I be a little mite of a boy . ''
`` I will teach you another , the best that be ever make , because it say all we need ask . ''
`` Our folk be n't very pious ; they do n't have time , I s ` pose . ''
`` I wonder if you know just what it mean to be pious ? ''
`` Goin ' to church , and readin ' the Bible , and sayin ' prayer and hymn , ai n't it ? ''
`` Those thing be a part of it ; but be kind and cheerful , do one 's duty , help others , and love God , be the best way to show that we be pious in the true sense of the word . ''
`` Then you be ! ''
and Ben look a if her act have be a good definition than her word .
`` I try to be , but I very often fail ; so every Sunday I make new resolution , and work hard to keep them through the week .
That be a great help , a you will find when you begin to try it . ''
`` Do you think if I say in meetin ' , ' I wo n't ever swear any more , ' that I would n't do it again ? ''
ask Ben , soberly ; for that be his besetting sin just now .
`` I 'm afraid we ca n't get rid of our fault quite so easily ; I wish we could : but I do believe that if you keep say that , and try to stop , you will cure the habit sooner than you think . ''
`` I never do swear very bad , and I do n't mind much till I come here ; but Bab and Betty look so scared when I say ` damn , ' and Mrs. Moss scold me so , I try to leave off .
It 's dreadful hard , though , when I get mad .
` Hang it ! '
do n't seem half so good if I want to let off steam . ''
`` Thorny use to ` confound ! '
every thing , so I propose that he should whistle instead ; and now he sometimes pip up so suddenly and shrilly that it make me jump .
How would that do , instead of swear ? ''
propose Miss Celia , not the least surprised at the habit of profanity , which the boy could hardly help learn among his former associate .
Ben laugh , and promise to try it , feel a mischievous satisfaction at the prospect of out-whistling Master Thorny , a he know he should ; for the objectionable word rise to his lip a dozen time a day .
The Ben be ring a they drive into town ; and , by the time Lita be comfortably settle in her shed , people be come up from all quarter to cluster around the step of the old meeting-house like bee about a hive .
Accustomed to a tent , where people keep their hat on , Ben forget all about his , and be go down the aisle cover , when a gentle hand take it off , and Miss Celia whisper , a she give it to him , -- `` This be a holy place ; remember that , and uncover at the door . ''
Much abash , Ben follow to the pew , where the Squire and his wife soon join them .
`` Glad to see him here , '' say the old gentleman with an approve nod , a he recognize the boy and remember his loss .
`` Hope he wo n't nestle round in meeting-time , '' whisper Mrs. Allen , compose herself in the corner with much rustling of black silk .
`` I 'll take care that he do n't disturb you , '' answer Miss Celia , push a stool under the short leg , and draw a palm-leaf fan within reach .
Ben give an inward sigh at the prospect before him ; for an hour 's captivity to an active lad be hard to bear , and he really do want to behave well .
So he fold his arm and sat like a statue , with nothing move but his eye .
They roll to and fro , up and down , from the high red pulpit to the worn hymnbook in the rack , recognize two little face under blue-ribboned hat in a distant pew , and find it impossible to restrain a momentary twinkle in return for the solemn wink Billy Barton bestow upon him across the aisle .
Ten minute of this decorous demeanor make it absolutely necessary for him to stir ; so he unfold his arm and cross his leg as cautiously a a mouse move in the presence of a cat ; for Mrs. Allen 's eye be on him , and he know by experience that it be a very sharp one .
The music which presently begin be a great relief to him , for under cover of it he could wag his foot and no one hear the creak thereof ; and when they stand up to sing , he be so sure that all the boy be look at him , he be glad to sit down again .
The good old minister read the sixteenth chapter of Samuel , and then proceed to preach a long and somewhat dull sermon .
Ben listen with all his ear , for he be interested in the young shepherd , `` ruddy and of a beautiful countenance , '' who be choose to be Saul 's armor-bearer .
He want to hear more about him , and how he get on , and whether the evil spirit trouble Saul again after David have harp them out .
But nothing more come ; and the old gentleman drone on about other thing till poor Ben felt that he must either go to sleep like the Squire , or tip the stool over by accident , since `` nestle '' be forbid , and relief of some sort he must have .
Mrs. Allen give him a peppermint , and he dutifully eat it , though it be so hot it make his eyes water .
Then she fan him , to his great annoyance , for it blow his hair about ; and the pride of his life be to have his head a smooth and shiny a black satin .
An irrepressible sigh of weariness attract Miss Celia 's attention at last ; for , though she seem to be listen devoutly , her thought have fly over the sea , with tender prayer for one whom she love even more than David do his Jonathan .
She guess the trouble in a minute , and have provide for it , know by experience that few small boy can keep quiet through sermon-time .
Finding a certain place in the little book she have bring , she put it into his hand , with the whisper , `` Read if you be tire . ''
Ben clutch the book and gladly obey , though the title , `` Scripture Narratives , '' do not look very inviting .
Then his eye fell on the picture of a slender youth cut a large man 's head off , while many people stand look on .
`` Jack , the giant-killer , '' think Ben , and turn the page to see the word `` David and Goliath '' , which be enough to set him to read the story with great interest ; for here be the shepherd boy turn into a hero .
No more fidget now ; the sermon be no longer hear , the fan flap unfelt , and Billy Barton 's spirited sketch in the hymnbook be vainly hold up for admiration .
Ben be quite absorb in the stir history of King David , tell in a way that fit it for child 's reading , and illustrate with fine picture which charm the boy 's eye .
Sermon and story end at the same time ; and , while he listen to the prayer , Ben felt a if he understand now what Miss Celia meant by say that word help when they be well choose and sincere .
Several petition seem a if especially intend for him ; and he repeat them to himself that he might remember them , they sound so sweet and comfortable heard for the first time just when he most needed comfort .
Miss Celia saw a new expression in the boy 's face a she glance down at him , and hear a little humming at her side when all stand up to sing the cheerful hymn with which they be dismiss .
`` How do you like church ? ''
ask the young lady , a they drive away .
`` First-rate ! ''
answer Ben , heartily .
`` Especially the sermon ? ''
Ben laugh , and say , with an affectionate glance at the little book in her lap , -- `` I could n't understand it ; but that story be just elegant .
There 's more ; and I 'd admire to read 'em , if I could . ''
`` I 'm glad you like them ; and we will keep the rest for another sermon-time .
Thorny use to do so , and always call this his ` pew book . '
I do n't expect you to understand much that you hear yet awhile ; but it be good to be there , and after read these story you will be more interested when you hear the name of the people mention here . ''
`` Yes , 'm .
Was n't David a fine feller ?
I like all about the kid and the corn and the ten cheese , and killin ' the lion and bear , and slingin ' old Goliath dead first shot .
I want to know about Joseph next time , for I saw a gang of robber puttin ' him in a hole , and it look real interesting . ''
Miss Celia could not help smile at Ben 's way of tell thing ; but she be pleased to see that he be attract by the music and the story , and resolve to make church-going so pleasant that he would learn to love it for it own sake .
`` Now , you have try my way this morning , and we will try yours this afternoon .
Come over about four and help me roll Thorny down to the grove .
I be go to put one of the hammock there , because the smell of the pine be good for him , and you can talk or read or amuse yourselves in any quiet way you like . ''
`` Can I take Sanch along ?
He do n't like to be leave , and felt real bad because I shut him up , for fear he 'd follow and come walkin ' into meetin ' to find me . ''
`` Yes , indeed ; let the clever Bow-wow have a good time and enjoy Sunday as much a I want my boy to . ''
Quite content with this arrangement , Ben go home to dinner , which he make very lively by recount Billy Barton 's ingenious device to beguile the tedium of sermon time .
He say nothing of his conversation with Miss Celia , because he have not quite make up his mind whether he like it or not ; it be so new and serious , he felt a if he have well lay it by , to think over a good deal before he could understand all about it .
But he have time to get dismal again , and long for four o'clock ; because he have nothing to do except whittle .
Mrs. Moss go to take a nap ; Bab and Betty sit demurely on their bench read Sunday book ; no boy be allow to come and play ; even the hen retire under the currant-bushes , and the cock stand among them , cluck drowsily , a if read them a sermon .
`` Dreadful slow day ! ''
think Ben ; and , retire to the recess of his own room , he read over the two letter which seem already old to him .
Now that the first shock be over , he could not make it true that his father be dead , and he give up try ; for he be an honest boy , and felt that it be foolish to pretend to be more unhappy than he really be .
So he put away his letter , take the black pocket off Sanch 's neck , and allow himself to whistle softly a he pack up his possession , ready to move next day , with few regret and many bright anticipation for the future .
`` Thorny , I want you to be good to Ben , and amuse him in some quiet way this afternoon .
I must stay and see the Morrises , who be come over ; but you can go to the grove and have a pleasant time , '' say Miss Celia to her brother .
`` Not much fun in talk to that horsey fellow .
I 'm sorry for him , but I ca n't do anything to amuse him , '' object Thorny , pull himself up from the sofa with a great yawn .
`` You can be very agreeable when you like ; and Ben have have enough of me for this time .
To-morrow he will have his work , and do very well ; but we must try to help him through to-day , because he do n't know what to do with himself .
Besides , it be just the time to make a good impression on him , while grief for his father soften him , and give u a chance .
I like him , and I 'm sure he want to do well ; so it be our duty to help him , a there seem to be no one else . ''
`` Here go , then !
Where be he ? ''
and Thorny stand up , win by his sister 's sweet earnestness , but very doubtful of his own success with the `` horsey fellow . ''
`` Waiting with the chair .
Randa have go on with the hammock .
Be a dear boy , and I 'll do as much for you some day . ''
`` Do n't see how you can be a dear boy .
You 're the best sister that ever be ; so I 'll love all the scallywag you ask me to . ''
With a laugh and a kiss , Thorny shamble off to ascend his chariot , good-humoredly salute his pusher , whom he find sit on the high rail behind , with his foot on Sanch .
`` Drive on , Benjamin .
I do n't know the way , so I ca n't direct .
Do n't spill me out , -- that 's all I 've get to say . ''
`` All right , sir , '' -- and away Ben trundle down the long walk that lead through the orchard to a little grove of seven pine .
A pleasant spot ; for a soft rustle fill the air , a brown carpet of pine needle , with fall cone for a pattern , lay under foot ; and over the top of the tall brake that fringe the knoll one have glimpse of hill and valley , farm-houses and wind river , like a silver ribbon through the low , green meadow .
`` A regular summer house ! ''
say Thorny , survey it with approval .
`` What 's the matter , Randa ?
Wo n't it do ? ''
he ask , a the stout maid drop her arm with a puff , after vainly try to throw the hammock rope over a branch .
`` That end go up beautiful , but this one wo n't ; the branch be so high , I ca n't reach 'em ; and I 'm no hand at fling rope round . ''
`` I 'll fix it ; '' and Ben go up the pine like a squirrel , tie a stout knot , and swung himself down again before Thorny could get out of the chair .
`` My patience , what a spry boy ! ''
exclaim Randa , admiringly .
`` That 's nothing ; you ought to see me shin up a smooth tent-pole , '' say Ben , rub the pitch off his hand , with a boastful wag of the head .
`` You can go , Randa .
Just hand me my cushion and book , Ben ; then you can sit in the chair while I talk to you , '' command Thorny , tumble into the hammock .
`` What 's he goin ' to say to me ? ''
wonder Ben to himself , a he sit down with Sanch sprawl among the wheel .
`` Now , Ben , I think you 'd better learn a hymn ; I always use to when I be a little chap , and it be a good thing to do Sundays , '' begin the new teacher , with a patronize air , which ruffle his pupil as much a the opprobrious term `` little chap . ''
`` I 'll be -- whew -- if I do ! ''
whistle Ben , stop an oath just in time .
`` It be not polite to whistle in company , '' say Thorny , with great dignity .
`` Miss Celia tell me to .
I 'll say ` confound it , ' if you like that good , '' answer Ben , a a sly smile twinkle in his eye .
`` Oh , I see !
She 's tell you about it ?
Well , then , if you want to please her , you 'll learn a hymn right off .
Come , now , she want me to be clever to you , and I 'd like to do it ; but if you get peppery , how can I ? ''
Thorny speak in a hearty , blunt way , which suit Ben much good than the other , and he respond pleasantly , -- `` If you wo n't be grand I wo n't be peppery .
Nobody be go to boss me but Miss Celia ; so I 'll learn hymn if she want me to . '' ''
` In the soft season of thy youth ' be a good one to begin with .
I learn it when I be six .
Nice thing ; good have it . ''
And Thorny offer the book like a patriarch address an infant .
Ben survey the yellow page with small favor , for the long s in the old-fashioned printing bewilder him ; and when he come to the last two line , he could not resist read them wrong , -- `` The earth afford no lovely fight Than a religious youth . ''
`` I do n't believe I could ever get that into my head straight .
Have n't you get a plain one any where round ? ''
he ask , turn over the leaf with some anxiety .
`` Look at the end , and see if there be n't a piece of poetry paste in .
You learn that , and see how funny Celia will look when you say it to her .
She write it when she be a girl , and somebody have it print for other child .
I like it best , myself . ''
Pleased by the prospect of a little fun to cheer his virtuous task , Ben whisk over the leaf , and read with interest the line Miss Celia have write in her girlhood : `` MY KINGDOM A little kingdom I possess , Where thought and feeling dwell ; And very hard I find the task Of govern it well .
For passion tempts and trouble me , A wayward will mislead , And selfishness it shadow cast On all my word and deed .
`` How can I learn to rule myself , To be the child I should , -- Honest and brave , -- nor ever tire Of try to be good ?
How can I keep a sunny soul To shine along life 's way ?
How can I tune my little heart To sweetly sing all day ?
`` Dear Father , help me with the love That casteth out my fear !
Teach me to lean on thee , and feel That thou art very near ; That no temptation be unseen , No childish grief too small , Since Thou , with patience infinite , Doth soothe and comfort all .
`` I do not ask for any crown , But that which all may will Nor seek to conquer any world Except the one within .
Be then my guide until I find , Led by a tender hand , Thy happy kingdom in myself , And dare to take command . ''
`` I like that ! ''
say Ben , emphatically , when he have read the little hymn .
`` I understand it , and I 'll learn it right away .
Do n't see how she could make it all come out so nice and pretty . ''
`` Celia can do any thing ! ''
and Thorny give an all-embracing wave of the hand , which forcibly express his firm belief in his sister 's boundless power .
`` I make some poetry once .
Bab and Betty think it be first-rate , I do n't , '' say Ben , move to confidence by the discovery of Miss Celia 's poetic skill .
`` Say it , '' command Thorny , add with tact , `` I ca n't make any to save my life , -- never could but I 'm fond of it . ''
`` Chevalita , Pretty cretr , I do love her Like a brother ; Just to ride Is my delight , For she do not Kick or bite , '' recite Ben , with modest pride , for his first attempt have be inspire by sincere affection , and pronounce `` lovely '' by the admire girl .
`` Very good !
You must say them to Celia , too .
She like to hear Lita praise .
You and she and that little Barlow boy ought to try for a prize , a the poet do in Athens .
I 'll tell you all about it some time .
Now , you peg away at your hymn . ''
Cheered by Thorny 's commendation , Ben fell to work at his new task , squirm about in the chair a if the process of get word into his memory be a very painful one .
But he have quick wit , and have often learn comic song ; so he soon be able to repeat the four verse without mistake , much to his own and Thorny 's satisfaction .
`` Now we 'll talk , '' say the well-pleased preceptor ; and talk they do , one swinging in the hammock , the other roll about on the pine-needles , a they relate their experience boy fashion .
Ben 's be the most exciting ; but Thorny 's be not without interest , for he have live abroad for several year , and could tell all sort of droll story of the country he have see .
Busied with friend , Miss Celia could not help wonder how the lad get on ; and , when the tea-bell rang , wait a little anxiously for their return , know that she could tell at a glance if they have enjoy themselves .
`` All go well so far , '' she think , a she watch their approach with a smile ; for Sancho sit bolt upright in the chair which Ben push , while Thorny stroll beside him , lean on a stout cane newly cut .
Both boy be talk busily , and Thorny laugh from time to time , a if his comrade 's chat be very amusing .
`` See what a jolly cane Ben cut for me !
He 's great fun if you do n't stroke him the wrong way , '' say the elder lad , flourish his staff a they come up .
`` What have you be do down there ?
You look so merry , I suspect mischief , '' ask Miss Celia , survey them front the step .
`` We 've be as good a gold .
I talk , and Ben learn a hymn to please you .
Come , young man , say your piece , '' say Thorny , with an expression of virtuous content .
Taking off his hat , Ben soberly obey , much enjoy the quick color that come up in Miss Celia 's face a she listen , and feeling a if well repay for the labor of learning by the pleased look with which she say , a he end with a bow , -- `` I feel very proud to think you choose that , and to hear you say it a if it mean something to you .
I be only fourteen when I write it ; but it come right out of my heart , and do me good .
I hope it may help you a little . ''
Ben murmur that he guess it would ; but felt too shy to talk about such thing before Thorny , so hastily retire to put the chair away , and the others go in to tea .
But later in the evening , when Miss Celia be sing like a nightingale , the boy slip away from sleepy Bab and Betty to stand by the syringa bush and listen , with his heart full of new thought and happy feeling ; for never before have he spend a Sunday like this .
And when he go to bed , instead of say `` Now I lay me , '' he repeat the third verse of Miss Celia 's hymn ; for that be his favorite , because his longing for the father whom he have see make it seem sweet and natural now to love and lean , without fear upon the Father whom he have not see .
CHAPTER XII GOOD TIMES Every one be very kind to Ben when his loss be know .
The Squire write to Mr. Smithers that the boy have find friend and would stay where he be .
Mrs. Moss console him in her motherly way , and the little girl do their very best to `` be good to poor Benny . ''
But Miss Celia be his true comforter , and completely win his heart , not only by the friendly word she say and the pleasant thing she do , but by the unspoken sympathy which show itself just at the right minute , in a look , a touch , a smile , more helpful than any amount of condolence .
She call him `` my man , '' and Ben try to be one , bear his trouble so bravely that she respect him , although he be only a little boy , because it promise well for the future .
Then she be so happy herself , it be impossible for those about her to be sad , and Ben soon grow cheerful again in spite of the very tender memory of his father lay quietly away in the safe corner of his heart .
He would have be a very unboyish boy if he have not be happy , for the new place be such a pleasant one , he soon felt a if , for the first time , he really have a home .
No more grubbing now , but daily task which never grow tiresome , they be so varied and so light .
No more cross Pats to try his temper , but the sweet mistress that ever be , since praise be oftener on her lip than blame , and gratitude make willing service a delight .
At first , it seem a if there be go to be trouble between the two boy ; for Thorny be naturally masterful , and illness have leave him weak and nervous , so he be often both domineer and petulant .
Ben have be teach instant obedience to those old than him self , and if Thorny have be a man Ben would have make no complaint ; but it be hard to be `` order round '' by a boy , and an unreasonable one into the bargain .
A word from Miss Celia blow away the threatening cloud , however ; and for her sake her brother promise to try to be patient ; for her sake Ben declare he never would `` get mad '' if Mr . Thorny do fidget ; and both very soon forget all about master and man and live together like two friendly lad , take each other 's ups and down good-naturedly , and find mutual pleasure and profit in the new companionship .
The only point on which they never could agree be legs , and many a hearty laugh do they give Miss Celia by their warm and serious discussion of this vexed question .
Thorny insist that Ben be bowlegged ; Ben resent the epithet , and declare that the leg of all good horseman must have a slight curve , and any one who know any thing about the matter would acknowledge both it necessity and it beauty .
Then Thorny Would observe that it might be all very well in the saddle , but it make a man waddle like a duck when afoot ; whereat Ben would retort that , for his part , he would rather waddle like a duck than tumble about like a horse with the stagger .
He have his opponent there , for poor Thorny do look very like a weak-kneed colt when he try to walk ; but he would never own it , and come down upon Ben with crush allusion to centaurs , or the Greeks and Romans , who be famous both for their horsemanship and fine limb .
Ben could not answer that , except by proudly refer to the chariot-races copy from the ancient , in which he have bear a part , which be more than some folk with long leg could say .
Gentlemen never do that sort of thing , nor do they twit their best friend with their misfortune , Thorny would remark ; cast a pensive glance at his thin hand , long the while to give Ben a good shaking .
This hint would remind the other of his young master 's late suffering and all he owe his dear mistress ; and he usually end the controversy by turn a few lively somersault a a vent for his swell wrath , and come up with his temper all right again .
Or , if Thorny happen to be in the wheeled chair , he would trot him round the garden at a pace which nearly take his breath away , thereby prove that if `` bow-legs '' be not beautiful to some benight being they be `` good to go . ''
Thorny like that , and would drop the subject for the time by politely introduce some more agreeable topic ; so the impending quarrel would end in a laugh over some boyish joke , and the word `` legs '' be avoid by mutual consent till accident bring it up again .
The spirit of rivalry be hide in the best of u , and be a helpful and inspire power if we know how to use it .
Miss Celia know this , and try to make the lads help one another by mean of it , -- not in boastful or ungenerous comparison of each other 's gift , but by interchange them , give and take freely , kindly , and be glad to love what be admirable wherever they find it .
Thorny admire Ben 's strength , activity , and independence ; Ben envy Thorny 's learning , good manner , and comfortable surroundings ; and , when a wise word have set the matter rightly before them , both enjoy the feeling that there be a certain equality between them , since money could not buy health , and practical knowledge be as useful a any that can be find in book .
So they interchange their small experience , accomplishment , and pleasure , and both be the good , as well a the happier , for it ; because in this way only can we truly love our neighbor a ourself , and get the real sweetness out of life .
There be no end to the new and pleasant thing Ben have to do , from keep path and flower-beds neat , feed the pet , and run errand , to wait on Thorny and be right-hand man to Miss Celia .
He have a little room in the old house , newly paper with hunt scene , which he be never tire of admire .
In the closet hang several out-grown suit of Thorny 's , make over for his valet ; and , what Ben value infinitely more , a pair of boot , well black and ready for grand occasion , when he ride abroad , with one old spur , find in the attic , brighten up and merely worn for show , since nothing would have induce him to prick beloved Lita with it .
Many picture , cut from illustrated paper , of race , animal , and bird , be stick round the room , give it rather the air of a circus and menagerie .
This , however , make it only the more home-like to it present owner , who felt exceedingly rich and respectable a he survey his premise ; almost like a retired showman who still fondly remembers past success , though now happy in the more private walk of life .
In one drawer of the quaint little bureau which he use , be keep the relic of his father ; very few and poor , and of no interest to any one but himself , -- only the letter telling of his death , a worn-out watch-chain , and a photograph of Senor Jose Montebello , with his youthful son stand on his head , both airily attire , and both smile with the calmly superior expression which gentleman of their profession usually wear in public .
Ben 's other treasure have be steal with his bundle ; but these he cherish and often look at when he go to bed , wonder what heaven be like , since it be lovely than California , and usually fell asleep with a dreamy impression that it must be something like America when Columbus find it , -- `` a pleasant land , where be gay flower and tall tree , with leaf and fruit such a they have never see before . ''
And through this happy hunting-ground `` father '' be for ever rid on a beautiful white horse with wing , like the one of which Miss Celia have a picture .
Nice time Ben have in his little room poring over his book , for he soon have several of his own ; but his favorite be Hamerton 's `` Animals '' and `` Our Dumb Friends , '' both full of interesting picture and anecdote such a boy love .
Still nice time work about the house , help get thing in order ; and best of all be the daily drive with Miss Celia and Thorny , when weather permit , or solitary ride to town through the heavy rain , for certain letter must go and come , no matter how the element rag .
The neighbor soon get use to the `` antic of that boy , '' but Ben know that he be an object of interest a he career down the main street in a way that make old lady cry out and brought people fly to the window , sure that some one be be run away with .
Lita enjoy the fun as much a he , and apparently do her best to send him heel over head , have rapidly earn to understand the sign he give her by the touch of hand and foot , or the tone of his voice .
These performance cause the boy to regard Ben Brown with intense admiration , the girl with timid awe , all but Bab , who burn to imitate him , and try her best whenever she get a chance , much to the anguish and dismay of poor Jack , for that long-suffering animal be the only steed she be allow to ride .
Fortunately , neither she nor Betty have much time for play just now , a school be about to close for the long vacation , and all the little people be busy finish up , that they might go to play with free mind .
So the `` lilac-parties , '' a they call them , be defer till later , and the lad amuse themselves in their own way , with Miss Celia to suggest and advise .
It take Thorny a long time to arrange his possession , for he could only direct while Ben unpack , wonder and admire a he work , because he have never see so many boyish treasure before .
The little printing-press be his especial delight , and leave every thing else in confusion , Thorny teach him it and plan a newspaper on the spot , with Ben for printer , himself for editor , and `` Sister '' for chief contributor , while Bab should be carrier and Betty office-boy .
Next come a postage-stamp book , and a rainy day be happily spend in paste a new collection where each particular one belong , with copious explanation from Thorny a they go along .
Ben do not feel any great interest in this amusement after one trial of it , but when a book contain pattern of the flag of all nation turn up , he be seize with a desire to copy them all , so that the house could be fitly decorate on gala occasion .
Finding that it amuse her brother , Miss Celia generously open her piece-drawer and rag-bag , and a the mania grow till her resource be exhaust , she buy bit of gay cambric and many-colored paper , and startle the store-keeper by purchase several bottle of mucilage at once .
Bab and Betty be invite to sew the bright strip of star , and prick their little finger assiduously , find this sort of needle-work much more attractive than piece bed-quilts .
Such a snipping and pasting , planning and stitching a go on in the big back room , which be give up to them , and such a noble array of banner and petition a soon decorate it wall , would have cause the dull eye to brighten with amusement , if not with admiration .
Of course , the Stars and Stripes hung high , with the English lion ramp on the royal standard close by ; then follow a regular picture-gallery , for there be the white elephant of Siam , the splendid peacock of Burmah , the double-headed Russian eagle , and black dragon of China , the winged lion of Venice , and the prance pair on the red , white , and blue flag of Holland .
The key and mitre of the Papal States be a hard job , but up they go at last , with the yellow crescent of Turkey on one side and the red full moon of Japan on the other ; the pretty blue and white flag of Greece hung below and the cross of free Switzerland above .
If material have hold out , the flag of all the United States would have follow ; but paste and patience be exhaust , so the busy worker rest awhile before they `` fling their banner to the breeze , '' a the newspaper have it .
A spell of ship-building and rigging follow the flag fit ; for Thorny , feel too old now for such toy , make over his whole fleet to `` the child , '' condescending , however , to superintend a thorough repairing of the same before he dispose of all but the big man-of-war , which continue to ornament his own room , with all sail set and a little red officer perpetually wave his sword on the quarter-deck .
These gift lead to out-of-door water-works , for the brook have to be dam up , that a shallow ocean might be make , where Ben 's piratical `` Red Rover , '' with the black flag , might chase and capture Bab 's smart frigate , `` Queen , '' while the `` Bounding Betsey , '' lade with lumber , safely sail from Kennebunkport to Massachusetts Bay .
Thorny , from his chair , be chief-engineer , and direct his gang of one how to dig the basin , throw up the embankment , and finally let in the water till the mimic ocean be full ; then regulate the little water-gate , lest it should overflow and wreck the pretty squadron or ship , boat , canoe , and raft , which soon ride at anchor there .
Digging and paddle in mud and water prove such a delightful pastime that the boy keep it up , till a series of water-wheels , little mill and cataract make the once quiet brook look a if a manufacturing town be about to spring up where hitherto minnow have play in peace and the retiring frog have chant his serenade unmolested .
Miss Celia like all this , for any thing which would keep Thorny happy out-of-doors in the sweet June weather find favor in her eye , and when the novelty have wear off from home affair , she plan a series of explore expedition which fill their boyish soul with delight .
As none of them know much about the place , it really be quite exciting to start off on a bright morning with a roll of wrap and cushion , lunch , book , and draw material pack into the phaeton , and drive at random about the shady road and lane , pause when and where they like .
Wonderful discovery be make , pretty place be name , plan be draw , and all sort of merry adventure befall the pilgrim .
Each day they camp in a new spot , and while Lita nibble the fresh grass at her ease , Miss Celia sketch under the big umbrella , Thorny read or lounge or sleep on his rubber blanket , and Ben make himself generally useful .
Unloading , fill the artist 's water-bottle , pile the invalid 's cushion , set out the lunch , run to and fro for a Bower or a butterfly , climb a tree to report the view , reading , chat , or frolic with Sancho , -- any sort of duty be in Ben 's line , and he do them all well , for an out-of-door life be natural to him and he like it .
`` Ben , I want an amanuensis , '' say Thorny , drop book and pencil one day after a brief interval of silence , break only by the whisper of the young leaf overhead and the soft babble of the brook close by .
`` A what ? ''
ask Ben , push back his hat with such an air of amazement that Thorny rather loftily inquire : `` Do n't you know what an amanuensis be ? ''
`` Well , no ; not unless it 's some relation to an anaconda .
Should n't think you 'd want one of them , anyway . ''
Thorny roll over with a hoot of derision , and his sister , who sit close by , sketch an old gate , look up to see what be go on .
`` Well , you need n't laugh at a feller .
You do n't know what a wombat be when I ask you , and I do n't roar , '' say Ben , give his hat a slap , a nothing else be handy .
`` The idea of want an anaconda tickle me so , I could n't help it .
I dare say you 'd have get me one if I have ask for it , you be such an oblige chap . ''
`` Of course I would if I could .
Should n't be surprise if you do some day , you want such funny thing , '' answer Ben , appease by the compliment .
`` I 'll try the amanuensis first .
It 's only some one to write for me ; I get so tired do it without a table .
You write well enough , and it will be good for you to know something about botany .
I intend to teach you , Ben , '' say Thorny , a if confer a great favor .
`` It look pretty hard , '' mutter Ben , with a doleful Glance at the book lay open upon a strew of torn leaf and flower .
`` No , it be n't ; it 's regularly jolly ; and you 'd be no end of a help if you only know a little .
Now , suppose I say , ` Bring me a `` ranunculus bulbosus , '' ' how would you know what I want ? ''
demand Thorny , wave his microscope with a learned air .
`` Should n't . ''
`` There be quantity of them all round u ; and I want to analyze one .
See if you ca n't guess . ''
Ben star vaguely from earth to sky , and be about to give it up , when a buttercup fell at his foot , and he catch sight of Miss Celia smile at him from behind her brother , who do not see the flower .
`` S'pose you mean this ?
I do n't call 'em rhinocerus bulburses , so I be n't sure . ''
And , take the hint as quickly a it be give , Ben present the buttercup a if he know all about it .
`` You guess that remarkably well .
Now bring me a ` leontodon taraxacum , ' '' say Thorny , charm with the quickness of his pupil , and glad to display his learning .
Again Ben gaze , but the field be full of early flower ; and , if a long pencil have not point to a dandelion close by , he would have be lose .
`` Here you be , sir , '' he answer with a chuckle and Thorny take his turn at be astonish now .
`` How the dickens do you know that ? ''
`` Try it again , and may be you 'll find out , '' laugh Ben .
Diving hap-hazard into his book , Thorny demand a `` trifolium pratense . ''
The clever pencil point , and Ben bring a red clover , mightily enjoy the joke , and think that their kind of botany be n't bad fun .
`` Look here , no fooling ! ''
and Thorny sit up to investigate the matter , so quickly that his sister have not time to sober down .
`` Ah , I 've catch you !
Not fair to tell , Celia .
Now , Ben , you 've get to learn all about this buttercup , to pay for cheat . ''
`` Werry good , sir ; bring on your rhinoceriouses , '' answer Ben , who could n't help imitate his old friend the clown when he felt particularly jolly .
`` Sit there and write what I tell you , '' order Thorny , with all the severity of a strict schoolmaster .
Perching himself on the mossy stump , Ben obediently flounder through the following analysis , with constant help in the spelling , and much private wonder what would come of it : -- `` Phaenogamous .
Exogenous .
Angiosperm .
Polypetalous .
Stamens , more than ten .
Stamens on the receptacle .
Pistils , more than one and separate .
Leaves without stipule .
Crowfoot family .
Genus ranunculus .
Botanical name , Ranunculus bulbosus . ''
`` Jerusalem !
what a flower !
Pistols and crow ' foot , and Polly put the kettle on , and Angy sperm and all the rest of 'em !
If that 's your botany , I wo n't take any more , thank you , '' say Ben , a he pause a hot and red a if he have be run a race .
`` Yes , you Will ; you 'll learn that all by heart , and then I shall give you a dandelion to do .
You 'll like that , because it mean dent de lion , or lion 's tooth ; and I 'll show them to you through my glass .
You 've no idea how interesting it be , and what heap of pretty thing you 'll see , '' answer Thorny , who have already discover how charm the study be , and have find great satisfaction in it , since he have be forbidden more active pleasure .
`` What 's the good of it , anyway ? ''
ask Ben , who would rather have be set to mow the big field than to the task before him .
`` It tell all about it in my book here , -- ` Gray 's Botany for Young People . '
But I can tell you what use it be to u , '' continue Thorny , cross his leg in the air and prepare to argue the matter , comfortably lie flat on his back .
`` We be a Scientific Exploration Society , and we must keep an account of all the plant , animal , mineral , and so on , a we come across them .
Then , suppose we get lose , and have to hunt for food , how be we to know what be safe and what be n't ?
Come , now , do you know the difference between a toadstool and a mushroom ? ''
`` No , I do n't . ''
`` Then I 'll teach you some day .
There be sweet flag and poisonous flag , and all sort of berry and thing ; and you 'd better look out when you be in the wood , or you 'll touch ivy and dogwood , and have a horrid time , if you do n't know your botany . ''
`` Thorny learn much of his by sad experience ; and you will be wise to take his advice , '' say Miss Celia , recall her brother 's various mishap before the new fancy come on .
`` Did n't I have a time of it , though , when I have to go round for a week with plantain leaf and cream stick all over my face !
Just pick some pretty red dogwood , Ben ; and then I be a regular guy , with a face like a lobster , and my eye swell out of sight .
Come along , and learn right away , and never get into scrape like most fellow . ''
Impressed by this warning , and attract by Thorny 's enthusiasm , Ben cast himself down upon the blanket , and for an hour the two head bob to and fro , from microscope to book , the teacher air his small knowledge , the pupil more and more interested in the new and curious thing he saw or heard , -- though it must be confess that Ben infinitely prefer to watch ant and bug , queer little worm and gauzy-winged fly , rather than `` putter '' over plant with long name .
He do not dare to say so , however ; but , when Thorny ask him if it be n't capital fun , he dodge cleverly by propose to hunt up the flower for his master to study , offer to learn about the dangerous one , but plead want of time to investigate this please science very deeply .
As Thorny have talk himself hoarse , he be very ready to dismiss his class of one to fish the milk-bottle out of the brook ; and recess be prolong till next day .
But both boy find a new pleasure in the pretty pastime they make of it ; for active Ben range the wood and field with a tin box slung over his shoulder , and feeble Thorny have a little room fit up for his own use , where he press flower in newspaper book , dry herb on the wall , have bottle and cup , pan and platter , for his treasure , and make a much litter a he like .
Presently , Ben bring such lively account of the green nook where jacks-in-the-pulpit preach their little sermon ; brook , beside which grow blue violet and lovely fern ; rock , round which dance the columbine like rosy elf , or the tree where bird build , squirrel chatter , and woodchuck burrow , that Thorny be seize with a desire to go and see these beauty for himself .
So Jack be saddle , and go plodding , scramble , and wander into all manner of pleasant place , always bring home a strong , brown rider than he carry away .
This delighted Miss Celia ; and she gladly saw them ramble off together , leave her time to stitch happily at certain dainty bit of sewing , write voluminous letter , or dream over others quite a long , swing in her hammock under the lilac .
CHAPTER XIII SOMEBODY RUNS AWAY '' ` School be do , Now we 'll have fun , '' Sung Bab and Betty , slam down their book a if they never mean to take them up again , when they come home on the last day of June .
Tired teacher have dismiss them for eight whole week , and go away to rest ; the little school-house be shut up , lesson be over , spirit rise fast , and vacation have begin .
The quiet town seem suddenly inundate with child , all in such a rampant state that busy mother wonder how they ever should be able to keep their frisky darling out of mischief ; thrifty father plan how they could bribe the idle hand to pick berry or rake hay ; and the old folk , while wish the young folk well , secretly bless the man who invent school .
The girl immediately begin to talk about picnic , and have them , too ; for little hat spring up in the field like a new sort of mushroom , -- every hillside bloom with gay gown , look a if the flower have go out for a walk ; and the wood be full of featherless bird chirp away as blithely a the thrush , robin , and wren .
The boy take to base-ball like duck to water , and the common be the scene of tremendous battle , wag with much tumult , but little bloodshed .
To the uninitiated , it appear a if these young men have lose their wit ; for , no matter how warm it be , there they be , tear about in the mad manner , jacket off , sleeve roll up , queer cap fling on any way , all bat shabby leather ball , and catch the same , a if their life depend on it .
Every one talk in his gruffest tone , bawl at the top of his voice , squabble over every point of the game , and seem to enjoy himself immensely , in spite of the heat , dust , uproar , and imminent danger of get eye or teeth knock out .
Thorny be an excellent player , but , not be strong enough to show his prowess , he make Ben his proxy ; and , sit on the fence , act a umpire to his heart 's content .
Ben be a promising pupil , and make rapid progress ; for eye , foot , and hand have be so well trained , that they do him good service now ; and Brown be consider a first-rate `` catcher '' .
Sancho distinguish himself by his skill in hunt up stray ball , and guard jacket when not need , with the air of one of the Old Guard on duty at the tomb of Napoleon .
Bab also long to join in the fun , which suit her good than `` stupid picnic '' or `` fussing over doll ; '' but her hero would not have her at any price ; and she be oblige to content herself with sit by Thorny , and watch with breathless interest the vary fortune of `` our side . ''
A grand match be plan for the Fourth of July ; but when the club meet , thing be find to be unpropitious .
Thorny have go out of town with his sister to pass the day , two of the best player do not appear , and the others be somewhat exhaust by the festivity , which begin at sunrise for them .
So they lay about on the grass in the shade of the big elm , languidly discuss their various wrong and disappointment .
`` It 's the mean Fourth I ever saw .
Ca n't have no cracker , because somebody 's horse get scar last year , '' growl Sam Kitteridge , bitterly resent the stern edict which forbid free-born citizen to burn as much gunpowder a they like on that glorious day .
`` Last year Jimmy get his arm blow off when they fire the old cannon .
Did n't we have a lively time go for the doctor and get him home ? ''
ask another boy , look a if he felt defraud of the most interesting part of the anniversary , because no accident have occur .
`` Ai n't go to be firework either , unless somebody 's barn burn up .
Do n't I just wish there would , '' gloomily respond another youth who have so rashly indulge in pyrotechnic on a former occasion that a neighbor 's cow have be roast whole .
`` I would n't give two cent for such a slow old place a this .
Why , last Fourth at this time , I be rumble though Boston street on top of our big car , all in my best toggery .
Hot a pepper , but good fun look in at the upper window and hear the woman scream when the old thing waggle round and I make believe I be go to tumble off , say Ben , lean on his bat with the air of a man who have see the world and felt some natural regret at descend from so lofty a sphere .
`` Catch me cuttin ' away if I have such a chance a that ! ''
answer Sam , try to balance his bat on his chin and get a smart rap across the nose a he fail to perform the feat .
`` Much you know about it , old chap .
It 's hard work , I can tell you , and that would n't suit such a lazy-bones .
Then you be too big to begin , though you might do for a fat boy if Smithers want one , '' say Ben , survey the stout youth , with calm contempt .
`` Let 's go in swimming , not loaf round here , if we ca n't play , '' propose a red and shiny boy , pant for a game of leap-frog in Sandy pond .
`` May as well ; do n't see much else to do , '' sigh Sam , rise like a young elephant .
The others be about to follow , when a shrill `` Hi , hi , boy , hold on ! ''
make them turn about to behold Billy Barton tear down the street like a runaway colt , wave a long strip of paper a he run .
`` Now , then , what 's the matter ? ''
demand Ben , a the other come up grinning and puffing , but full of great news .
`` Look here , read it !
I 'm go ; come along , the whole of you , '' pant Billy , put the paper into Sam 's hand , and survey the crowd with a face as beaming a a full moon .
`` Look out for the big show , '' read Sam .
`` Van Amburgh & Co. 's New Great Golden Menagerie , Circus and Colosseum , will exhibit at Berryville , July 4th , at 1 and 7 precisely .
Admission 50 cent , child half-price .
Do n't forget day and date .
H. Frost , Manager . ''
While Sam read , the other boy have be gloat over the enticing picture which cover the bill .
There be the golden car , fill with noble being in helmet , all play on immense trumpet ; the twenty-four prancing steed with mane , tail , and feather head toss in the breeze ; the clown , the tumbler , the strong men , and the rider fly about in the air a if the law of gravitation no longer exist .
But , best of all , be the grand conglomeration of animal where the giraffe appear to stand on the elephant 's back , the zebra to be jump over the seal , the hippopotamus to be lunch off a couple of crocodile , and lion and tiger to be rain down in all direction with their mouth , wide open and their tail as stiff a that of the famous Northumberland House lion .
`` Cricky !
would n't I like to see that , '' say little Cyrus Fay , devoutly hop that the cage , in which this pleasing spectacle take place , be a very strong one .
`` You never would , it 's only a picture !
That , now , be something like , '' and Ben , who have prick up his ear at the word `` circus , '' lay his finger on a small cut of a man hanging by the back of his neck with a child in each hand , two men suspend from his foot , and the third swing forward to alight on his head .
`` I 'm go , '' say Sam , with calm decision , for this superb array of unknown pleasure fire his soul and make him forget his weight .
`` How will you fix it ? ''
ask Ben , finger the bill with a nervous thrill all through his wiry limb , just a he use to feel it when his father catch him up to dash into the ring .
`` Foot it with Billy .
It 's only four mile , and we 've get lot of time , so we can take it easy .
Mother wo n't care , if I send word by Cy , '' answer Sam , produce half a dollar , a if such magnificent sum be no stranger to his pocket .
`` Come on , Brown ; you 'll be a first-rate fellow to show u round , a you know all the dodge , '' say Billy , anxious to get his money 's worth .
`` Well , I do n't know , '' begin Ben , long to go , but afraid Mrs. Moss would say `` No ! ''
if he ask leave .
`` He 's afraid , '' sneer the red-faced boy , who felt bitterly toward all mankind at that instant , because he know there be no hope of his go .
`` Say that again , and I 'll knock your head off , '' and Ben face round with a gesture which cause the other to skip out of reach precipitately .
`` Has n't get any money , more likely , '' observe a shabby youth , whose pocket never have any thing in them but a pair of dirty hand .
Ben calmly produce a dollar bill and wave it defiantly before this doubter , observe with dignity : `` I 've get money enough to treat the whole crowd , if I choose to , which I do n't . ''
`` Then come along and have a jolly time with Sam and me .
We can buy some dinner and get a ride home , as like a not , '' say the amiable Billy , with a slap on the shoulder , and a cordial grin which make it impossible for Ben to resist .
`` What be you stop for ? ''
demand Sam , ready to be off , that they might `` take it easy . ''
`` Do n't know what to do with Sancho .
He 'll get lose or steal if I take him , and it 's too far to carry him home if you be in a hurry , '' begin Ben , persuade himself that this be the true reason of his delay .
`` Let Cy take him back .
He 'll do it for a cent ; wo n't you , Cy ? ''
propose Billy , smooth away all objection , for he like Ben , and saw that he want to go .
`` No , I wo n't ; I do n't like him .
He wink at me , and growl when I touch him , '' mutter naughty Cy , remember how much reason poor Sanch have to distrust his tormentor .
`` There 's Bab ; she 'll do it .
Come here , sissy ; Ben want you , '' call Sam , beckon to a small figure just perch on the fence .
Down it jump and Came flutter up , much elate at be summon by the captain of the sacred nine .
`` I want you to take Sanch home , and tell your mother I 'm go to walk , and may be wo n't be back till sundown .
Miss Celia say I Might do what I please , all day .
You remember , now . ''
Ben speak without look up , and affect to be very busy buckle a strap into Sanch 's collar , for the two be so seldom part that the dog always rebel .
It be a mistake on Ben 's part , for while his eye be on his work Bab 's be devour the bill which Sam still hold , and her suspicion be arouse by the boy ' face .
`` Where be you go ?
Ma will want to know , '' she say , as curious a a magpie all at once .
`` Never you mind ; girl ca n't know every thing .
You just catch hold of this and run along home .
Lock Sanch up for an hour , and tell your mother I 'm all right , '' answer Ben , bound to assert his manly supremacy before his mate .
`` He 's go to the circus , '' whisper Fay , hop to make mischief .
`` Circus !
Oh , Ben , do take me ! ''
cry Bab , fall into a state of great excitement at the mere thought of such delight .
`` You could n't walk four mile , '' begin Ben .
`` Yes , I could , as easy a not . ''
`` You have n't get any money . ''
`` You have ; I saw you show your dollar , and you could pay for me , and Ma would pay it back . ''
`` Ca n't wait for you to get ready . ''
`` I 'll go a I be .
I do n't care if it be my old hat , '' and Bab jerk it on to her head .
`` Your mother would n't like it . ''
`` She wo n't like your go , either . ''
`` She be n't my missis now .
Miss Celia would n't care , and I 'm go , any way . ''
`` Do , do take me , Ben !
I 'll be just as good a ever be , and I 'll take care of Sanch all the way , '' plead Bab , clasp her hand and look round for some sign of relent in the face of the boy .
`` Do n't you bother ; we do n't want any girl tagging after u , '' say Sam , walk off to escape the annoyance .
`` I 'll bring you a roll of chickerberry lozengers , if you wo n't tease , '' whisper kind-hearted Billy , with a console pat on the crown of the shabby straw hat .
`` When the circus come here you shall go , certain sure , and Betty too , '' say Ben , feel mean while he propose what he know be a hollow mockery .
`` They never do come to such little town ; you say so , and I think you be very cross , and I wo n't take care of Sanch , so , now ! ''
cry Bab , get into a passion , yet ready to cry , she be so disappointed .
`` I Suppose it would n't do -- '' hint Billy , with a look from Ben to the little girl , who stand wink hard to keep the tear back .
`` Of Course it would n't .
I 'd like to see her walk eight mile .
I do n't mind pay for her ; it 's get her there and back .
Girls be such a bother when you want to knock round .
No , Bab , you ca n't go .
Travel right home and do n't make a fuss .
Come along , boys ; it 's most eleven , and we do n't want to walk fast . ''
Ben speak very decidedly ; and , take Billy 's arm , away they go , leave poor Bab and Sanch to watch them out of sight , one sobbing , the other whine dismally .
Somehow those two figure seem to go before Ben all along the pleasant road , and half spoil his fun ; for though he laugh and talk , cut cane , and seem as merry a a grig , he could not help feeling that he ought to have ask leave to go , and be kind to Bab .
`` Perhaps Mrs. Moss would have plan somehow so we could all go , if I 'd tell her , I 'd like to show her round , and she 's be real good to me .
No use now .
I 'll take the girl a lot of candy and make it all right . ''
He try to settle it in that way and trudge gayly off , hop Sancho would n't feel hurt at be leave , wonder if any of `` Smithers 's lot '' would be round , and plan to do the honor handsomely to the boy .
It be very warm ; and just outside of the town they pause by a wayside watering-trough to wash their dusty face , and cool off before plunge into the excitement of the afternoon .
As they stand refresh themselves , a baker 's cart come jingling by ; and Sam propose a hasty lunch while they rest .
A supply of gingerbread be soon buy ; and , climb the green bank above , they lay on the grass under a wild cherry-tree , munch luxuriously , while they feast their eye at the same time on the splendor await them ; for the great tent , with all it flag fly , be visible from the hill .
`` We 'll cut across those field , -- it 's short than go by the road , -- and then we can look round outside till it 's time to go in .
I want to have a good go at every thing , especially the lion , '' say Sam , begin on his last cookie .
`` I hear 'em roar just now ; '' and Billy stand up to gaze with big eye at the flap canvas which hide the king of beast from his long sight .
`` That be a cow mooing .
Do n't you be a donkey , Bill .
When you hear a real roar , you 'll shake in your boot , '' say Ben , hold up his handkerchief to dry , after it have do double duty a towel and napkin .
`` I wish you 'd hurry up , Sam .
Folks be go in now .
I see 'em ! ''
and Billy prance with impatience ; for this be his first circus , and he firmly believe that he be go to behold all that the picture promise .
`` Hold on a minute , while I get one more drink .
Buns be dry fodder , '' say Sam , roll over to the edge of the bank and prepare to descend with as little trouble a possible .
He nearly go down head first , however ; for , a he look before he leap , he behold a sight which cause him to stare with all his might for an instant , then turn and beckon , say in an eager whisper , `` Look here , boy , -- quick ! ''
Ben and Billy peer over , and both suppress an astonished `` Hullo ! ''
for there stood Bab , wait for Sancho to lap his fill out of the overflow trough .
Such a shabby , tired-looking couple a they be !
Bab with a face as red a a lobster and streak with tear , shoe white with dust , playfrock torn at the gather , something bundle up in her apron , and one shoe down at the heel a if it hurt her .
Sancho lap eagerly , with his eye shut ; all his ruffle be gray with dust , and his tail hung wearily down , the tassel at half mast , a if in mourn for the master whom he have come to find .
Bab still hold the strap , intent on keep her charge safe , though she lose herself ; but her courage seem to be give out , a she look anxiously up and down the road , see no sign of the three familiar figure she have be follow as steadily a a little Indian on the war-trail .
`` Oh , Sanch , what shall I do if they do n't come along ?
We must have go by them somewhere , for I do n't see any one that way , and there be n't any other road to the circus , seem to me . ''
Bab speak a if the dog could understand and answer ; and Sancho look a if he do both , for he stop drink , prick up his car , and , fix his sharp eye on the grass above him , give a suspicious bark .
`` It 's only squirrel ; do n't mind , but come along and be good ; for I 'm so tired , I do n't know what to do ! ''
sigh Bab , try to pull him after her a she trudge on , bound to see the outside of that wonderful tent , even if she never get in .
But Sancho have hear a soft chirrup ; and , with a sudden bound , twitch the strap away , spring up the bank , and land directly on Ben 's back a he lay peep over .
A peal of laughter greet him ; and , have get the good of his master in more way than one , he make the most of the advantage by playfully worry him a he keep him down , lick his face in spite of his struggle , burrow in his neck with a ticklish nose , snap at his button , and yelp joyfully , a if it be the best joke in the world to play hide-and-seek for four long mile .
Before Ben could quiet him , Bab come climb up the bank , with such a funny mixture of fear , fatigue , determination , and relief in her dirty little face , that the boy could not look awful if they try .
`` How dared you come after u , miss ? ''
demand Sam , a she look calmly about her , and take a seat before she be ask .
`` Sanch would come after Ben ; I could n't make him go home , so I have to hold on till he be safe here , else he 'd be lose , and then Ben would feel bad . ''
The cleverness of that excuse tickle the boy immensely ; and Sam try again , while Ben be get the dog down and sit on him .
`` Now you expect to go to the circus , I suppose . ''
`` Course I do .
Ben say he do n't mind pay , if I could get there without bother him , and I have ; and I 'll go home alone .
I ai n't afraid .
Sanch will take care of me , if you wo n't , '' answer Bab , stoutly .
`` What do you suppose your mother will say to you ? ''
ask Ben , feel much reproach by her last word .
`` I guess she 'll say you lead me into mischief ; and the sharp child nod , a if she defy him to deny the truth of that .
`` You 'll catch it when you get home , Ben ; so you 'd better have a good time while you can , '' advise Sam , think Bab great fun , since none of the blame of her prank would fall on him .
`` What would you have do if you have n't find u ? ''
ask Billy , forget his impatience in his admiration for this plucky young lady .
`` I 'd have go on and see the circus , and then I 'd have go home again and tell Betty all about it , '' be the prompt answer .
`` But you have n't any money . ''
`` Oh , I 'd ask somebody to pay for me .
I 'm so little , it would n't be much . ''
`` Nobody would do it ; so you 'd have to stay outside , you see . ''
`` No , I would n't .
I think of that , and plan how I 'd fix it if I do n't find Ben .
I 'd make Sanch do his trick , and get a quarter that way ; so , now !
answer Bab , undaunted by any obstacle .
`` I do believe she would !
You be a smart child , Bab ; and if I have enough I 'd take you in myself , '' say Billy , heartily ; for , have sister of his own , he keep a soft place in his heart for girl , especially enterprising one .
`` I 'll take care of her .
It be very naughty to come , Bab ; but , so long a you do , you need n't worry about any thing .
I 'll see to you ; and you shall have a real good time , '' say Ben , accept his responsibility without a murmur , and bound to do the handsome thing by his persistent friend .
`` I think you would ; '' and Bab fold her arm , a if she have nothing far to do but enjoy herself .
`` Are you hungry ? ''
ask Billy , fish out several fragment of gingerbread .
`` Starving ! ''
and Bab eat them with such a relish that Sam add a small contribution ; and Ben catch some water for her in his hand , where the little spring bubble up beside a stone .
`` Now , you wash your face and spat down your hair , and put your hat on straight , and then we 'll go , '' command Ben , give Sanch a roll on the grass to clean him .
Bab scrub her face till it shine ; and , pull down her apron to wipe it , scatter a load of treasure collect in her walk .
Some of the dead flower , bit of moss , and green twig fell near Ben , and one attract his attention , -- a spray of broad , smooth leaf , with a bunch of whitish berry on it .
`` Where do you get that ? ''
he ask , poke it with his foot .
`` In a swampy place , come along .
Sanch saw something down there ; and I go with him , 'cause I think may be it be a musk-rat , and you 'd like one if we could get him . ''
`` Was it ? ''
ask the boy all at once , and with intense interest .
`` No ; only a snake , and I do n't care for snake .
I pick some of that , it be so green and pretty .
Thorny like queer leaf and berry , you know , '' answer Bab , `` spatting , '' down her rough lock .
`` Well , he wo n't like that , nor you either ; it 's poisonous , and I should n't wonder if you 'd get poison , Bab .
Do n't touch it !
Swamp-sumach be horrid stuff , -- Miss Celia say so ; '' and Ben look anxiously at Bab , who felt her chubby face all over , and examine her dingy hand with a solemn air , ask , eagerly , -- `` Will it break out on me ` fore I get to the circus ? ''
`` Not for a day or so , I guess ; but it 's bad when it do come . ''
`` I do n't care , if I see the animal first .
Come quick , and never mind the old weed and thing , '' say Bab , much relieve ; for present bliss be all she have room for now in her happy little heart .
CHAPTER XIV SOMEBODY GETS LOST Putting all care behind them , the young folk run down the hill , with a very lively dog gambol beside them , and take a delightfully tantalize survey of the external charm of the big tent .
But people be begin to go in , and it be impossible to delay when they come round to the entrance .
Ben felt that now `` his foot be on his native heath , '' and the superb air of indifference with which he throw down his dollar at the ticket-office , carelessly sweep up the change , and stroll into the tent with his hand in his pocket , be so impressive that even big Sam repress his excitement and meekly follow their leader , a he lead them from cage to cage , do the honor a if he own the whole concern .
Bab hold tight to the flap of his jacket , star about her with round eye , and listen with little gasp of astonishment or delight to the roaring of lion , the snarling of tiger , the chatter of the monkey , the groaning of camel , and the music of the very brass band shut up in a red bin .
Five elephant be toss their hay about in the middle of the menagerie , and Billy 's legs shook under him a he look up at the big beast whose long nose and small , sagacious eye fill him with awe .
Sam be so tickle by the droll monkey that the others leave him before the cage and go on to see the zebra , `` strip just like Ma 's muslin gown , '' Bab declare .
But the next minute she forget all about him in her rapture over the pony and their tiny colt ; especially one mite of a thing who lay asleep on the hay , such a miniature copy of it little mouse-colored mamma that one could hardly believe it be alive .
`` Oh , Ben , I must feel of it !
-- the cunning baby horse ! ''
and down go Bab inside the rope to pat and admire the pretty creature , while it mother smelt suspiciously at the brown hat , and baby lazily open one eye to see what be go on .
`` Come out of that , it be n't allow , '' command Ben , long to do the same thing , but mindful of the propriety and his own dignity .
Bab reluctantly tear herself away to find consolation in watch the young lion , who look so like big puppy , and the tiger wash their face just a pus do .
`` If I stroke 'em , would n't they purr ? ''
she ask , bent on enjoy herself , while Ben hold her skirt l she should try the experiment .
`` You 'd better not go to pat them , or you 'll get your hand claw up .
Tigers do purr like fun when they be happy , but these feller never be , and you 'll only see 'em spit and snarl , '' say Ben , lead the way to the humpy carrel , who be peacefully chew their cud and longing for the desert , with a dreamy , far-away look in their mournful eye .
Here , lean on the rope , and scientifically bite a straw while he talk , Ben play showman to his heart 's content till the neigh of a horse from the circus tent beyond remind him of the joy to come .
`` We 'd better hurry along and get good seat before folk begin to crowd .
I want to sit near the curtain and see if any of Smitthers 's lot be ` round . ''
`` I ai n't go way off there ; you ca n't see half so well , and that big drum make such a noise you ca n't hear yourself think , '' say Sam , who have rejoin them .
So they settle in good place where they could see and hear all that go on in the ring and still catch glimpse of white horse , bright color , and the glitter of helmet beyond the dingy red curtain .
Ben treat Bab to peanut and pop-corn like an indulgent parent , and she murmur protestation of undying gratitude with her mouth full , a she sit blissfully between him and the congenial Billy .
Sancho , meantime , have be much excite by the familiar sight and sound , and now be greatly exercise in his doggish mind at the unusual proceeding of his master ; for he be sure that they ought to be within there , put on their costume , ready to take their turn .
He look anxiously at Ben , sniff disdainfully at the strap a if to remind him that a scarlet ribbon ought to take it place , and poke peanut shell about with his paw a if search for the letter with which to spell his famous name .
`` I know , old boy , I know ; but it ca n't be do .
We 've quit the business and must just look on .
No lark for u this time , Sanch , so keep quiet and behave , ' whisper Ben , tuck the dog away under the seat with a sympathetic cuddle of the curly head that peep out from between his foot .
`` He want to go and cut up , do n't he ? ''
say Billy , `` and so do you , I guess .
Wish you be go to .
Would n't it be fun to see Ben show off in there ? ''
`` I 'd be afraid to have him go up on a pile of elephant and jump through hoop like these folk , '' answer Bab , pore over her pictured play-bill with unabated relish .
`` Done it a hundred time , and I 'd just like to show you what I can do .
They do n't seem to have any boy in this lot ; should n't wonder if they 'd take me if I ask 'em , '' say Ben , move uneasily on his seat and cast wistful glance toward the inner tent where he know he would feel more at home than in his present place .
`` I hear some men say that it 's against the law to have small boy now ; it 's so dangerous and not good for them , this kind of thing .
If that 's so , you 're do for , Ben , '' observe Sam , with his most grown-up air , remember Ben 's remark on `` fat boy . ''
`` Do n't believe a word of it , and Sanch and I could go this minute and get take on , I 'll bet .
We be a valuable couple , and I could prove it if I choose to , '' begin Ben , get excited and boastful .
`` Oh , see , they 're come !
-- gold carriage and lovely horse , and flag and elephant , and every thing , '' cry Bab , give a clutch at Ben 's arm a the opening procession appear head by the band , toot and bang till their face be as red a their uniform .
Round and round they go till every one have see their fill , then the rider alone be leave caracole about the ring with feather fly , horse prance , and performer look a tired and indifferent a if they would all like to go to sleep then and there .
`` How splendid ! ''
sigh Bab , a they go dash out , to tumble off almost before the horse stop .
`` That 's nothing !
You wait till you see the bareback riding and the ` acrobatic exercise , ' '' say Ben , quote from the play-bill , with the air of one who know all about the feat to come , and could never be surprised any more .
`` What be ` crowbackic exercise ' ? ''
ask Billy , thirst for information .
`` Leaping and climbing and tumble ; you 'll see George !
what a stunning horse ! ''
and Ben forget every thing else to feast his eye on the handsome creature who now come pace in to dance , upset and replace chair , kneel , bow , and perform many wonderful or graceful feat , end with a swift gallop while the rider sit in a chair on it back fanning himself , with his leg cross , as comfortably a you please .
`` That , now , be something like , '' and Ben 's eye shone with admiration and envy a the pair vanish , and the pink and silver acrobat come leap into the ring .
The boy be especially interested in this part , and well they might be ; for strength and agility be manly attribute which lads appreciate , and these lively fellows fly about like India-rubber ball , each try to outdo the other , till the leader of the acrobat cap the climax by turn a double somersault over five elephant stand side by side .
`` There , Sir , how 's that for a jump ? ''
ask Ben , rub his hand with satisfaction a his friend clap till their palm tingle .
`` We 'll rig up a spring-board and try it , '' say Billy , fire with emulation .
`` Where 'll you get your elephant ? ''
ask Sam , scornfully , for gymnastics be not in his line .
`` You 'll do for one , '' retort Ben , and Billy and Bab join in his laugh so heartily that a rough-looking , man who sit behind them , hear all they say , pronounce them a `` jolly set , '' and keep his eye on Sancho , who now show sign of insubordination .
`` Hullo , that be n't on the bill ! ''
cry Ben , a a parti-colored clown come in , follow by half a dozen dog .
`` I 'm so glad ; now Sancho will like it .
There 's a poodle that might be his ownty donty brother -- the one with the blue ribbon , '' say Bab .
beam with delight a the dog take their seat in the chair arrange for them .
Sancho do like it only too well , for be scramble out from under the seat in a great hurry to go and greet his friend ; and , be sharply check , sit up and beg so piteously that Ben find it very hard to refuse and order him down .
He subside for a moment , but when the black spaniel , who act the canine clown , do something funny and be applaud , Sancho make a dart a if bent on leap into the ring to outdo his rival , and Ben be force to box his ear and put his foot on the poor beast , fear he would be order out if he make any disturbance .
Too well trained to rebel again , Sancho lay meditate on his wrong till the dog act be over , carefully abstain from any further sign of interest in their trick , and only give a sidelong glance at the two little poodle who come out of a basket to run up and down stair on their fore-paws , dance jig on their hind-legs , and play various pretty prank to the great delight of all the child in the audience .
If ever a dog express by look and attitude , `` Pooh !
I could do much good than that , and astonish you all , if I be only allow to , '' that dog be Sancho , a he curl himself up and affect to turn his back on an unappreciative world .
`` It 's too bad , when he know more than all those chap put together .
I 'd give any thing if I could show him off a I use to .
Folks always like it , and I be ever so proud of him .
He 's mad now because I have to cuff him , and wo n't take any notice of me till I make up , '' say Ben , regretfully eye his offended friend , but not dare to beg pardon yet .
More riding follow , and Bab be keep in a breathless state by the marvellous agility and skill of the gauzy lady who drive four horse at once , leap through hoop , over banner and bar , spring off and on at full speed , and seem to enjoy it all so much it be impossible to believe that there could be any danger or exertion in it .
Then two girl fly about on the trapeze , and walk on a tight rope , cause Bab to feel that she have at last find her sphere ; for , young a she be , her mother often say , `` I really do n't know what this child be fit for , except mischief , like a monkey . ''
`` I 'll fix the clothes-line when I get home , and show Ma how nice it be .
Then , may be , she 'd let me wear red and gold trouser , and climb round like these girl , '' think the busy little brain , much excite by all it saw on that memorable day .
Nothing short of a pyramid of elephant with a glitter gentleman in a turban and top boot on the summit would have make her forget this new and charming plan .
But that astonish spectacle , and the prospect of a cage of Bengal tiger with a man among them , in imminent danger of be eaten before her eye , entirely absorb her thought till , just a the big animal go lumber out , a peal of thunder cause considerable commotion in the audience .
Men on the high seat pop their head through the opening in the tent-cover and report that a heavy shower be come up .
Anxious mother begin to collect their flock of child a hen do their chicken at sunset ; timid people tell cheerful story of tent blow over in gale , cage upset and wild beast let loose .
Many leave in haste , and the performer hurry to finish as soon a possible .
`` I 'm go now before the crowd come , so I can get a lift home .
I see two or three folk I know , so I 'm off ; '' and , climb hastily down , Sam vanish without further ceremony .
`` Better wait till the shower be over .
We can go and see the animal again , and get home all dry , just as well a not , '' observe Ben , encouragingly , a Billy look anxiously at the billow canvas over his head , the sway post before him , and hear the quick patter of drop outside , not to mention the melancholy roar of the lion which sound rather awful through the sudden gloom which fill the strange place .
`` I would n't miss the tiger for any thing .
See , they be pull in the cart now , and the shiny man be all ready with his gun .
Will he shoot any of them , apprehension , for the sharp crack of a rifle startle her more than the loud thunder-clap she ever hear .
`` Bless you , no , child ; it 's only powder to make a noise and scare 'em .
I would n't like to be in his place , though ; father say you can never trust tiger a you can lions , no matter how tame they be .
Sly feller , like cat , and when they scratch it 's no joke , I tell you , '' answer Ben , with a know wag of the head , a the side of the cage rattle down , and the poor , fierce creature be see leap and snarl a if they resent this display of their captivity .
Bab curl up her foot and wink fast with excitement a she watch the `` shiny man '' fondle the great cat , lie down among them , pull open their red mouth , and make them leap over him or crouch at his foot a he snap the long whip .
When he fire the gun and they all fell a if dead , she with difficulty suppress a small scream and clap her hand over her ear ; but poor Billy never mind it a bit , for he be pale and quake with the fear of `` heaven 's artillery '' thunder overhead , and a a bright flash of lightning seem to run down the tall tent-poles he hide his eye and wish with all his heart that he be safe with mother .
`` Afraid of thunder , Bill ? ''
ask Ben , try to speak stoutly , while a sense of his own responsibility begin to worry him , for how be Bab to be get home in such a pour rain ?
`` It make me sick ; always do .
Wish I have n't come , '' sigh Billy , feeling , all too late , that lemonade and `` lozengers '' be not the fit food for man , or a stifling tent the best place to be in on a hot July day , especially in a thunder-storm .
`` I do n't ask you to come ; you ask me ; so it be n't my fault , '' say Ben , rather gruffly , a people crowd by without pause to hear the comic song the clown be sing in spite of the confusion .
`` Oh , I 'm so tired , '' groan Bab , get up with a long stretch of arm and leg .
`` You 'll be tired before you get home , I guess .
Nobody ask you to Come , any way ; '' and Ben gaze dolefully round him , wish he could see a familiar face or find a wise head than his own to help him out of the scrape he be in .
`` I say I would n't be a bother , and I wo n't .
I 'll walk right home this minute .
I ai n't afraid of thunder , and the rain wo n't hurt these old clothes .
Come along , '' cry Bab , bravely , bent on keep her word , though it look much harder after the fun be all over than before .
`` My head ache like fury .
Do n't I wish old Jack be here to take me back , '' say Billy , follow his companion in misfortune with sudden energy , a a louder peal than before roll overhead .
`` You might as well wish for Lita and the covered wagon while you be about it , then we could all ride , '' answer Ben , lead the way to the outer tent , where many people be linger in hope of fair weather .
`` Why , Billy Barton , how in the world do you get here ? ''
cry a surprised voice a the crook of a cane catch the boy by the collar and jerk him face to face with a young farmer , who be push along , follow by his , wife and two or three child .
`` Oh , Uncle Eben , I 'm so glad you find Me !
I walk over , and it 's rain , and I do n't feel well .
Let me go with you , ca n't I ? ''
ask Billy , cast himself and all his woe upon the strong arm that have lay hold of him .
`` Do n't see what your mother be about to let you come so far alone , and you just over scarlet fever .
We be as full a ever we can be , but we 'll tuck you in somehow , '' say the pleasant-faced woman , bundle up her baby , and bid the two little lad `` keep close to father . ''
`` I do n't come alone .
Sam get a ride , and ca n't you tuck Ben and Bab in too ?
They ai n't very big , either of them , '' whisper Billy , anxious to serve his friend now that he be provide for himself .
`` Ca n't do it , any way .
Got to pick up mother at the corner , and that will be all I can carry .
It 's lift a little ; hurry along , Lizzie , and let u get out of this a quick be possible , '' say Uncle Eben , impatiently ; for go to a circus with a young family be not an easy task , a every one know who have ever try it .
`` Ben , I 'm real sorry there be n't room for you .
I 'll tell Bab 's mother where she be , and may be some one will come for you , '' say Billy , hurriedly , a he tear himself away , feel rather mean to desert the others , though he could be of no use .
`` Cut away , and do n't mind u .
I 'm all right , and Bab must do the best she can , '' be all Ben have time to answer before his comrade be hustle away by the crowd press round the entrance with much clashing of umbrella and scrambling of boy and men , who rather enjoy the flurry .
`` No use for u to get knock about in that scrimmage .
We 'll wait a minute and then go out easy .
It 's a regular rouser , and you 'll be as wet a a sop before we get home .
Hope you 'll like that ? ''
added Ben , look out at the heavy rain pore down a if it never mean to stop .
`` Do n't care a bit , '' say Bab , swing on one of the rope with a happy-go-lucky air , for her spirit be not extinguish yet , and she be bind to enjoy this exciting holiday to the very end .
`` I like circus so much !
I wish I live here all the time , and slept in a wagon , a you do , and have these dear little colties to play with . ''
`` It would n't be fun if you do n't have any folk to take care of you , '' begin Ben , thoughtfully look about the familiar place where the men be now feed the animal , set their refreshment table , or lounge on the hay to get such rest a they could before the evening entertainment .
Suddenly he start , give a long look , then turn to Bab , and thrust Sancho 's strap into her hand , say , hastily : `` I see a fellow I use to know .
May be he can tell me something about father .
Do n't you stir till I come back . ''
Then he be off like a shot , and Bab saw him run after a man with a bucket who bad be water the zebra .
Sancho try to follow , but be check with an impatient , -- `` No , you ca n't go !
What a plague you be , tag around when people do n't want you . ''
Sancho might have answer , `` So be you , '' but , be a gentlemanly dog , he sit down with a resigned expression to watch the little colt , who be now awake and seem ready for a game of bo-peep behind their mamma .
Bab enjoy their funny little frisk so much that she tie the wearisome strap to a post , and creep under the rope to pet the tiny mouse-colored one who come and talk to her with baby whinny and confide glance of it soft , dark eye .
`` Oh , luckless Bab !
why do you turn your back ?
Oh , too accomplished Sancho !
why do you neatly untie that knot and trot away to confer with the disreputable bull-dog who stand in the entrance beckon with friendly waving of an abbreviated tail ?
Oh , much afflict Ben !
why do you delay till it be too late to save your pet from the rough man who set his foot upon the trailing strap , and lead poor Sanch quickly out of sight among the crowd ?
`` It be Bascum , but he do n't know any thing .
Why , where 's Sanch ? ''
say Ben , return .
A breathless voice make Bab turn to see Ben look about him with as much alarm in his hot face a if the dog have be a two year ' child .
`` I tie him -- he 's here somewhere -- with the pony , '' stammer Bab , in sudden dismay , for no sign of a dog appear a her eye rove wildly to and fro .
Ben whistle , call and search in vain , till one of the lounge men say , lazily , `` If you be look after the big poodle you 'd better go outside ; I saw him trot off with another dog . ''
Away rush Ben , with Bab follow , regardless of the rain , for both felt that a great misfortune have befall them .
But , long before this , Sancho have vanish , and no one mind his indignant howl a he be drive off in a covered cart .
`` If he be lose I 'll never forgive you ; never , never , never ! ''
and Ben find it impossible to resist give Bab several hard shake , which make her yellow braid fly up and down like pump handle .
`` I 'm dreadful sorry .
He 'll come back -- you say he always do , '' plead Bab , quite crush by her own affliction , and rather scar to see Ben look so fierce , for he seldom lose his temper or be rough with the little girl .
`` If he do n't come back , do n't you speak to me for a year .
Now , I 'm go home . ''
And , feel that word be powerless to express his emotion , Ben walk away , look as grim a a small boy could .
A more unhappy little lass be seldom to be find than Bab be , a she patter after him , splash recklessly through the puddle , and get a wet and muddy a possible , a a sort of penance for her sin .
For a mile or two she trudge stoutly along , while Ben march before in solemn silence , which soon become both impressive and oppressive because so unusual , and such a proof of his deep displeasure .
Penitent Bab long for just one word , one sign of relent ; and when none come , she begin to wonder how she could possibly bear it if he keep his dreadful threat and do not speak to her for a whole year .
But presently her own discomfort absorb her , for her foot be wet and cold as well a very tired ; pop-corn and peanut be not particularly nourishing food ; and hunger make her feel faint ; excitement be a new thing , and now that it be over she long to lie down and go to sleep ; then the long walk with a circus at the end seem a very different affair from the homeward trip with a distracted mother await her .
The shower have subside into a dreary drizzle , a chilly east wind blow up , the hilly road seem to lengthen before the weary foot , and the mute , blue flannel figure go on so fast with never a look or sound , add the last touch to Bab 's remorseful anguish .
Wagons pass , but all be full , and no one offer a ride .
Men and boy go by with rough joke on the forlorn pair , for rain soon make them look like young tramp .
But there be no brave Sancho to resent the impertinence , and this fact be sadly bring to both their mind by the appearance of a great Newfoundland dog who come trot after a carriage .
The good creature stop to say a friendly word in his dumb fashion , look up at Bab with benevolent eye , and poke his nose into Ben 's hand before he bound away with his plumy tail curl over his back .
Ben start a the cold nose touch his finger , give the soft head a lingering pat , and watch the dog out of sight through a thicker mist than any the rain make .
But Bab break down ; for the wistful look of the creature 's eye remind her of lose Sancho , and she sob quietly a she glance back long to see the dear old fellow jogging along in the rear .
Ben hear the piteous sound and take a sly peep over his shoulder , see such a mournful spectacle that he felt appeased , say to himself a if to excuse his late sternness , -- `` She be a naughty girl , but I guess she be about sorry enough now .
When we get to that sign-post I 'll speak to her , only I wo n't forgive her till Sanch come back . ''
But he be good than his word ; for , just before the post be reach , Bab , blind by tear , trip over the root of a tree , and , roll down the bank , land in a bed of wet nettle .
Ben have her out in a jiffy , and vainly try to comfort her ; but she be past any consolation he could offer , and roar dismally a she wring her tingle hand , with great drop run over her cheek almost as fast a the muddy little rill run down the road .
`` Oh dear , oh dear !
I 'm all sting up , and I want my supper ; and my foot ache , and I 'm cold , and every thing be so horrid ! ''
wail the poor child lie on the grass , such a miserable little wet bunch that the stern parent would have melt at the sight .
`` Do n't cry so , Babby ; I be real cross , and I 'm sorry .
I 'll forgive you right away now , and never shake you any more , '' cry Ben , so full of pity for her tribulation that he forget his own , like a generous little man .
`` Shake me again , if you want to ; I know I be very bad to tag and lose Sanch .
I never will any more , and I 'm so sorry , I do n't know what to do , '' answer Bab , completely bow down by this magnanimity .
`` Never mind ; you just wipe up your face and come along , and we 'll tell Ma all about it , and she 'll fix u as nice a can be .
I should n't wonder if Sanch get home now before we do , '' say Ben , cheer himself as well a her by the fond hope .
`` I do n't believe I ever shall .
I 'm so tired my leg wo n't go , and the water in my boot make them feel dreadfully .
I wish that boy would wheel me a piece .
Do n't you s ` pose he would ?
ask Bab , wearily pick herself up a a tall lad trundle a barrow come out of a yard near by .
`` Hullo , Joslyn ! ''
say Ben , recognize the boy a one of the `` hill fellow '' who come to town Saturday night for play or business .
`` Hullo , Brown ! ''
respond the other , arrest his squeak progress with sign of surprise at the moist tableau before him .
`` Where goin ' ? ''
ask Ben with masculine brevity .
`` Got to carry this home , hang the old thing . ''
`` Where to ? ''
`` Batchelor 's , down yonder , '' and the boy point to a farm-house at the foot of the next hill .
`` Goin ' that way , take it right along . ''
`` What for ? ''
question the prudent youth , distrust such unusual neighborliness .
`` She 's tired , want a ride ; I 'll leave it all right , true a I live and breathe , '' explain Ben , half ashamed yet anxious to get his little responsibility home as soon a possible , for mishap seem to thicken .
`` Ho , you could n't cart her all that way !
she 's most as heavy a a bag of meal , '' jeer the taller lad , amuse at the proposition .
`` I 'm strong than most feller of my size .
Try , if I ai n't , '' and Ben square off in such scientific style that Joslyn respond with sudden amiability , -- `` All right , let 's see you do it . ''
Bab huddle into her new equipage without the least fear , and Ben trundle her off at a good pace , while the boy retire to the shelter of a barn to watch their progress , glad to be rid of an irksome errand .
At first , all go well , for the way be down hill , and the wheel squeak briskly round and round ; Bab smile gratefully upon her bearer , and Ben `` go in on his muscle with a will , '' a he express it .
But presently the road grow sandy , begin to ascend , and the load seem to grow heavy with every step .
`` I 'll get out now .
It 's real nice , but I guess I be too heavy , '' say Bab , a the face before her got redder and redder , and the breath begin to come in puff .
`` Sit still .
He say I could n't .
I 'm not go to give in with him look on , '' pant Ben , and he push gallantly up the rise , over the grassy lawn to the side gate of the Batchelors ' door-yard , with his head down , teeth set , and every muscle of his slender body brace to the task .
`` Did ever ye see the like of that now ?
Ah , ha !
`` The street be so wide , and the lane be so narry , He bring his wife home on a little wheelbarry , '' sing a voice with an accent which make Ben drop his load and push back his hat , to see Pat 's red head look over the fence .
To have his enemy behold him then and there be the last bitter drop in poor Ben 's cup of humiliation .
A shrill approve whistle from the hill be some comfort , however , and give him spirit to help Bab out with composure , though his hand be blister and he have hardly breath enough to issue the Command , -- `` Go along home , and do n't mind him . ''
`` Nice childer , ye be , runnin ' off this way , settin ' the woman distract , and me wastin ' me time comin ' after ye when I 'd be milkin ' airly so I 'd get a bit of pleasure the day , '' grumble Pat , come up to untie the Duke , whose Roman nose Ben have already recognize , as well a the roomy chaise stand before the door .
`` Did Billy tell you about u ? ''
ask Bab , gladly follow toward this welcome refuge .
`` Faith he do , and the Squire send me to fetch ye home quiet and aisy .
When ye find me , I 'd jist stop here to borry a light for me pipe .
Up wid ye , b ` y , and not be wastin ' me time stramashin ' after a spalpeen that I 'd like to lay me whip over , '' say Pat , gruffly , a Ben come along , have leave the barrow in the shed .
`` Do n't you wish you could ?
You need n't wait for me ; I 'll come when I 'm ready , '' answer Ben dodge round the chaise , bound not to mind Pat , if he spend the night by the road-side in consequence .
`` Bedad , and I wo n't then .
It 's lively ye be ; but four leg be good than two , a ye 'll find this night , me young man . ''
With that he whip up and be off before Bab could say a word to persuade Ben to humble himself for the sake of a ride .
She lament and Pat chuckle , both forget what an agile monkey the boy be , and a neither look back , they be unaware Master Ben be hang on behind among the strap and spring , make derisive grimace at his unconscious foe through the little glass in the leathern back .
At the lodge gate Ben jump down to run before with whoop of naughty satisfaction , which bring the anxious waiter to the door in a flock ; so Pat could only shake his fist at the exult little rascal a he drive away , leave the wanderer to be welcome as warmly a if they be a pair of model child .
Mrs. Moss have not be very much trouble after all ; for Cy have tell her that Bab go after Ben , and Billy have lately report her safe arrival among them , so , mother-like , she feed , dry , and warm the runaway , before she scold them .
Even then , the lecture be a mild one , for when they try to tell the adventure which to them seem so exciting , not to say tragical , the effect astonish them immensely , a their audience go into gale of laughter , especially at the wheelbarrow episode , which Bab insist on telling , with grateful minuteness , to Ben 's confusion .
Thorny shout , and even tender-hearted Betty forget her tear over the lose dog to join in the familiar melody when Bab mimic Pat 's quotation from Mother Goose .
`` We must not laugh any more , or these naughty child will think they have do something very clever in run away , '' say Miss Celia , when the fun subside , add , soberly , `` I be displeased , but I will say nothing , for I think Ben be already punish enough . ''
`` Guess I be , '' mutter Ben , with a choke in his voice a he glance toward the empty mat where a dear curly bunch use to be with a bright eye twinkle out of the middle of it .
CHAPTER XV BEN 'S RIDE Great be the mourning for Sancho , because his talent and virtue make him universally admire and beloved .
Miss Celia advertise , Thorny offer reward , and even surly Pat keep a sharp look-out for poodle dog when he go to market ; but no Sancho or any trace of him appear .
Ben be inconsolable , and sternly say it serve Bab right when the dogwood poison affect both face and hand .
Poor Bab think so , too , and dare ask no sympathy from him , though Thorny eagerly prescribe plantain leaf , and Betty keep her supplied with an endless succession of them steep in cream and pitying tear .
This treatment be so successful that the patient soon take her place in society as well a ever , but for Ben 's affliction there be no cure , and the boy really suffer in his spirit .
`` I do n't think it 's fair that I should have so much trouble , -- first lose father and then Sanch .
If it be n't for Lita and Miss Celia , I do n't believe I could stand it , '' he say , one day , in a fit of despair , about a week after the sad event .
`` Oh , come now , do n't give up so , old fellow .
We 'll find him if he s alive , and if he be n't I 'll try and get you another a good , '' answer Thorny , with a friendly slap on the shoulder , a Ben sit disconsolately among the bean he have be hoe .
`` As if there ever could be another half a good ! ''
cry Ben , indignant at the idea ; `` or a if I 'd ever try to fill his place with the best and big dog that ever wag a tail !
No , sir , there 's only one Sanch in all the world , and if I ca n't have him I 'll never have a dog again . ''
`` Try some other sort of pet , then .
You may have any of mine you like .
Have the peacock ; do now , '' urge Thorny , full of boyish sympathy and good-will .
`` They be dreadful pretty , but I do n't seem to care about em , thank you , '' reply the mourner .
`` Have the rabbit , all of them , '' which be a handsome offer on Thorny 's part , for there be a dozen at least .
`` They do n't love a fellow a a dog do ; all they care for be stuff to eat and dirt to burrow in .
I 'm sick of rabbit . ''
And well he might be , for he have have the charge of them ever since they come , and any boy who have ever keep bunny know what a care they be .
`` So be I !
Guess we 'll have an auction and sell out .
Would Jack be a comfort to you ?
If he will , you may have him .
I 'm so well now , I can walk , or ride anything , '' add Thorny , in a burst of generosity .
`` Jack could n't be with me always , a Sanch be , and I could n't keep him if I have him . ''
Ben try to be grateful , but nothing short of Lita would have heal his wounded heart , and she be not Thorny 's to give , or he would probably have offer her to his afflicted friend .
`` Well , no , you could n't take Jack to bed with you , or keep him up in your room , and I 'm afraid he Would never learn to do any thing clever .
I do wish I have something you want , I 'd so love to give it to you . ''
He speak so heartily and be so kind that Ben look up , feel that he have give him one of the sweet thing in the world -- friendship ; he want to tell him so , but do not know how to do it , so catch up his hoe and fell to work , say , in a tone Thorny understand good than word , -- `` You be real good to me-never mind , I wo n't worry about it ; only it seem extra hard come so soon after the other -- '' He stop there , and a bright drop fell on the bean leave , to shine like dew till Ben saw clearly enough to bury it out of sight in a great flurry .
`` By Jove !
I 'll find that dog , if he be out of the ground .
Keep your spirit up , my lad , and we 'll have the dear old fellow back yet . ''
With which cheer prophecy Thorny go off to rack his brain a to what could be do about the matter .
Half an hour afterward , the sound of a hand-organ in the avenue rouse him from the brown study into which he have fall a he lay on the newly mown grass of the lawn .
Peeping over the wall , Thorny reconnoitre , and , find the organ a good one , the man a pleasant-faced Italian , and the monkey a lively animal , he order them all in , a a delicate attention to Ben , for music and monkey together might suggest soothe memory of the past , and so be a comfort .
In they come by way of the Lodge , escort by Bab and Betty , full of glee , for hand-organs be rare in those part , and the child delight in them .
Smiling till his white teeth shone and his black eye sparkle , the man play away while the monkey make his pathetic little bow , and pick up the penny Thorny throw him .
`` It be warm , and you look tire .
Sit down and I 'll get you some dinner , '' say the young master , point to the seat which now stand near the great gate .
With thanks in broken English the man gladly obey , and Ben beg to be allow to make Jacko equally comfortable , explain that he know all about monkey and what they like .
So the poor thing be free from his cock hat and uniform , feed with bread and milk , and allow to curl himself up in the cool grass for a nap , look so like a tired littie old man in a fur coat that the child be never weary of watch him .
Meantime , Miss Celia have come out , and be talk Italian to Giacomo in a way that delight his homesick heart .
She have be to Naples , and could understand his longing for the lovely city of his birth , so they have a little chat in the language which be all Music , and the good fellow be so grateful that he play for the child to dance till they be glad to stop , linger afterward a if he hat to set out again upon his lonely , dusty walk .
`` I 'd rather like to tramp round with him for a week or so .
Could make enough to live on as easy a not , if I only I have Sanch to show off , '' say Ben , a he be coax Jacko into the suit which he detest .
`` You go wid me , yes ? ''
ask the man , nod and smile , well please at the prospect of company , for his quick eye and what the boys let fall in their talk show him that Ben be not one of them .
`` If I have my dog I 'd love to , '' and with sad eagerness Ben tell the tale of his loss , for the thought of it be never long out of his mind .
`` I tink I see droll dog like he , way off in New York .
He do leetle trick wid letter , and dance , and go on he head , and many ting to make laugh , '' say the man , when he have listen to a list of Sanch 's beauty and accomplishment .
`` Who have him ? ''
ask Thorny , full of interest at once .
`` A man I not know .
Cross fellow what beat him when he do letter bad . ''
`` Did he spell his name ? ''
cry Ben , breathlessly .
`` No ; that for why man beat him .
He name Generale , and he go spell Sancho all time , and cry when whip fall on him .
Ha !
yes !
that name true one ; not Generale ? ''
and the man nod , wave his hand , and show his teeth , almost a much excite a the boy .
`` It 's Sanch !
let 's go and get him now , right off !
cry Ben , in a fever to be go .
`` A hundred mile away , and no clue but this man 's story ?
We must wait a little , Ben , and be sure before we set out , '' say Miss Celia , ready to do almost any thing , but not so certain a the boy .
`` What sort of a dog be it ?
A large , curly , white poodle , with a queer tail ? ''
she ask of Giacomo .
`` No , Signorina mia , he no curly , no wite ; he black , smooth dog , littel tail , small , so ; '' and the man hold up one brown finger with a gesture which suggest a short , wag tail .
`` There , you see how mistaken we be .
Dogs be often name Sancho , especially Spanish poodle ; for the original Sancho be a Spaniard , you know .
This dog be not ours , and I 'm so sorry . ''
The boy ' face have fall dismally a their hope be destroy ; but Ben would not give up .
For him there be and could be only one Sancho in the world , and his quick wit suggest an explanation which no one else thought of .
`` It may be my dog , -- they color 'em a we use to paint over trick horse .
I tell you he be a valuable chap , and those that steal him hide him that way , else he 'd be no use , do n't you see ?
because we 'd know him . ''
`` But the black dog have no tail , '' begin Thorny , long to be convince , but still doubtful .
Ben shiver a if the mere think hurt him , a he say , in a grim tone , -- `` They might have cut Sanch 's off . ''
`` Oh , no !
no !
they must n't , -- they would n't !
How Could any one be so wicked ? ''
cry Bab and Betty , horrify at the suggestion .
`` You do n't know what such fellow would do to make all safe , so they could use a dog to earn their living for 'em , '' say Ben , with mysterious significance , quite forget in his wrath that he have just propose to get his own living in that way himself .
`` He no your dog ?
Sorry I not find him for you .
Addio , signorina !
Grazia , signor !
Buon giorno , buon giorno ! ''
and , kiss his hand , the Italian shoulder organ and monkey , ready to go .
Miss Celia detain him long enough to give him her address , and beg him to let her know if he meet poor Sanch in any of his wandering ; for such itinerant showman often cross each other 's path .
Ben and Thorny walk to the school-corner with him , get more exact information about the black dog and his owner , for they have no intention of give it up so soon .
That very evening , Thorny write to a boy cousin in New York , give all the particular of the case , and beg him to hunt up the man , investigate the dog , and see that the police make sure that every thing be right .
Much relieve by this performance , the boy wait anxiously for a reply , and when it come find little comfort in it .
Cousin Horace have do his duty like a man , but regret that he could only report a failure .
The owner of the black poodle be a suspicious character , but tell a straight story , how he have buy the dog from a stranger , and exhibit him with success till he be steal .
Knew nothing of his history , and be very sorry to lose him , for he be a remarkably clever beast .
`` I tell my dog-man to look about for him , but he say he have probably be kill , with ever so many more ; so there be an end of it , and I call it a mean shame . ''
`` Good for Horace !
I tell you he 'd do it up thoroughly and see the end of it , '' say Thorny , a he read that paragraph in the deeply interesting letter .
`` May be the end of that dog , but not of mine .
I 'll bet he run away ; and if it be Sanch , he 'll come home .
You see if he do n't ! ''
cry Ben , refuse to believe that all be over .
`` A hundred wile off ?
Oh , he could n't find you without help , smart a he be , '' answer Thorny , incredulously .
Ben look discourage , but Miss Celia cheer him up again by say , -- `` Yes , he could .
My father have a friend who leave a little dog in Paris ; and the creature find her in Milan , and die of fatigue next day .
That be very wonderful , but true ; and I 've no doubt that if Sanch be alive he will come home .
Let u hope so , and be happy , while we wait . ''
`` We will ! ''
say the boy ; and day after day look for the wanderer 's return , keep a bone ready in the old place if he should arrive at night , and shake his mat to keep it soft for his weary bone when he come .
But week pass , and still no Sanch .
Something else happen , however , so absorb that he be almost forget for a time ; and Ben find a way to repay a part of all he owe his best friend .
Miss Celia go off for a ride one afternoon , and an hour afterward , a Ben sit in the porch reading , Lita dash into the yard with the rein dangle about her leg , the saddle turn round , and one side cover with black mud , show that she have be down .
For a minute , Ben 's heart stand still ; then he fling away his book , run to the horse , and saw at once by her heave flank , dilate nostril , and wet coat , that she must have come a long way and at full speed .
`` She have have a fall , but be n't hurt or frighten , '' think the boy , a the pretty creature rub her nose against his shoulder , paw the ground , and champ her bit , a if she try to tell him all about the disaster , whatever it be .
`` Lita , where 's Miss Celia ? ''
he ask , look straight into the intelligent eye , which be trouble but not wild .
Lita throw up her head , and neigh loud and clear , a if she call her mistress ; and , turn , would have go again if Ben have not catch the rein and hold her .
`` All right , we 'll find her ; '' and , pull off the broken saddle , kick away his shoe , and ram his hat firmly on , Ben be up like a flash , tingle all over with a sense of power a he felt the bare back between his knee , and catch the roll of Lita 's eye a she look round with an air of satisfaction .
`` Hi , there !
Mrs. Moss !
Something have happen to Miss Celia , and I 'm go to find her .
Thorny be asleep ; tell him easy , and I 'll come back as soon a I can ! ''
Then , give Lita her head , he be off before the startled woman have time to do more than wring her hand and cry out , -- `` Go for the Squire !
Oh , what shall we do ? ''
As if she know exactly what be want of her , Lita go back the way she have come , a Ben could see by the fresh , irregular track that cut up the road where she have gallop for help .
For a mile or more they go , then she pause at a pair of bar , which be let down to allow the cart to pass into the wide hay-fields beyond .
On she go again , canter across the new-mown turf toward a brook , across which she have evidently take a leap before ; for , on the further side , at a place where cattle go to drink , the mud show sign of a fall .
`` You be a fool to try there ; but where be Miss Celia ? ''
say Ben , who talk to animal a if they be people , and be understood much good than any one not use to their companionship would imagine .
Now Lita seem at a loss , and put her head down , a if she expect to find her mistress where she have leave her , somewhere on the ground .
Ben call , but there be no answer ; and he ride slowly along the brook-side , look far and wide with anxious eye .
`` May be she be n't hurt , and have go to that house to wait , '' think the boy , pause for a last survey of the great , sunny field , which have no place of shelter in it but one rock on the other side of the little stream .
As his eye wander over it , something dark seem to blow out from behind it , a if the wind play in the fold of a shirt , or a human limb move .
Away go Lita , and in a moment Ben have find Miss Celia , lie in the shadow of the rock , so white and motionless , he fear that she be dead .
He leap down , touch her , speak to her ; and , receive no answer , rush away to bring a little water in his leaky hat to sprinkle in her face , a he have see them do when any of the rider get a fall in the circus , or faint from exhaustion after they leave the ring , where `` do or die '' be the motto all adopt .
In a minute , the blue eye open , and she recognize the anxious face bending over her , say faintly , a she touch it , -- `` My good little Ben , I know you 'd find me , -- I send Lita for you , -- I 'm so hurt , I could n't come . ''
`` Oh , where ?
What shall I do ?
Had I better run up to the house ? ''
ask Ben , overjoy to hear her speak , but much dismay by her seeming helplessness , for he have see bad fall , and have them , too .
`` I feel bruise all over , and my arm be break , I 'm afraid .
Lita try not to hurt me .
She slip , and we go down .
I come here into the shade , and the pain make me faint , I suppose .
Call somebody , and get me home . ''
Then she shut her eye , and look so white that Ben hurry away , and burst upon old Mrs. Paine , placidly knit at the end door , so suddenly that , a she afterward say , `` It sca ' t her like a clap o ' thunder . ''
`` Ai n't a man nowheres around .
All down in the big medder gettin ' in hay , '' be her reply to Ben 's breathless demand for `` everybody to come and see to Miss Celia . ''
He turn to mount , for he have fling himself off before Lita stop , but the old lady catch his jacket , and ask half a dozen question in a breath .
`` Who 's your folk ?
What 's broke ?
How 'd she fall ?
Where be she ?
Why do n't she come right here ?
Is it a sunstroke ? ''
As fast a word could tumble out of his mouth , Ben answer , and then try to free himself ; but the old lady hold on , while she give her direction , express her sympathy , and offer her hospitality with incoherent warmth .
`` Sakes alive !
poor dear !
Fetch her right in .
Liddy , get out the camphire ; and , Melissy , you haul down a bed to lay her on .
Falls be dretful uncert ` in thing ; should n't wonder if her back be broke .
Father 's down yender , and he and Bijah will see to her .
You go call 'em , and I 'll blow the horn to start 'em up .
Tell her we 'd be please to see her , and it wo n't make a mite of trouble . ''
Ben hear no more , fur a Mrs. Paine turn to take down the tin horn he be up and away .
Several long and dismal toot send Lita gallop through the grassy path a the sound of the trumpet excite a war-horse , and `` father and Bijah , '' alarm by the signal at that hour , lean on their rake to survey with wonder the distracted-looking little horseman approach like a whirlwind .
`` Guess likely grandpa 's have ` nother stroke .
Told 'em to send over soon 's ever it come , '' say the farmer , calmly .
`` Should n't wonder ef suthing be afire some ` r 's , '' conjecture the hired man , survey the horizon for a cloud of smoke .
Instead of advance to meet the messenger , both stand like statue in blue overall and red flannel shirt , till the boy arrive and tell his tale .
`` Sho , that 's bad , '' say the farmer , anxiously .
`` That brook always be the darndest place , '' add Bijah ; then both men bestir themselves helpfully , the former hurrying to Miss Cella while the latter bring up the cart and make a bed of hay to lay her on .
`` Now then , boy , you go for the doctor .
My own folk will see to the lady , and she 'd better keep quiet up yender till we see what the matter be , '' say the farmer , when the pale girl be lift in as carefully a four strong arm could do it .
`` Hold on , '' he add , a Ben make one leap to Lita 's back .
`` You 'll have to go to Berryville .
Dr. Mills be a master hand for broken bone and old Dr. Babcock ai n't .
'T be n't but about three mile from here to his house , and you 'll fetch him ` fore there 's any harm do waitin ' . ''
`` Do n't kill Lita , '' call Miss Celia from the cart , a it begin to move .
But Ben do not hear her , for he be off across the field , rid a if life and death depend upon his speed .
`` That boy will break his neck , '' say Mr. Paine , stand still to watch horse and rider go over the wall a if bent on instant destruction .
`` No fear for Ben , he can ride any thing , and Lita be train to leap , '' answer Miss Celia , fall back on the hay with a groan , for she have involuntarily raise her head to see her little squire dash away in gallant style .
`` I should hope so ; regular jockey , that boy .
Never see any thing like it out of a race-ground , '' and Farmer Paine strode on , still follow with his eye the figure that go thunder over the bridge , up the hill , out of sight , leave a cloud of cloud of dust behind .
Now that his mistress be safe , Ben enjoy that wild ride mightily , and so do the bay mare ; for Lita have good blood in her , and prove it that day by do her three mile in a wonderfully short time .
People jog along in wagon and country carry-alls star amaze a the reckless pair go by .
Women , placidly do their afternoon sewing at the front windows , drop their needle to run out with exclamation of alarm , sure some one be be run away with ; child play by the roadside scatter like chicken before a hawk , a Ben pass with a warning whoop , and baby-carriages be scramble into door-yards with perilous rapidity at his approach .
But when he clatter into town , intense interest be felt in this barefooted boy on the foaming steed , and a dozen voice ask , `` Who 's kill ? ''
a he pull up at the doctor 's gate .
`` Jest drive off that way ; Mrs. Flynn 's baby 's in a fit , '' cry a stout lady from the piazza , never cease to rock , though several passer-by pause to hear the news , for she be a doctor 's wife , and use to the arrival of excited messenger from all quarter at all hour of the day and night .
Deigning no reply to any one , Ben ride away , wish he could leap a yawning gulf , scale a precipice , or ford a raging torrent , to prove his devotion to Miss Celia , and his skill in horsemanship .
But no danger beset his path , and he find the doctor pause to water his tired horse at the very trough where Bab and Sancho have be discover on that ever-memorable day .
The story be quickly tell , and , promise to be there as soon a possible , Dr. Mills drive on to relieve baby Flynn 's inner man , a little disturbed by a bit of soap and several button , upon which he have privately lunch while his mamma be busy at the wash-tub .
Ben thank his star , a he have already do more than once , that he know how to take care of a horse ; for he delay by the watering-place long enough to wash out Lita 's mouth with a handful of wet grass , to let her have one swallow to clear her dusty throat , and then go slowly back over the breezy hill , pat and praise the good creature for her intelligence and speed .
She know well enough that she have be a clever little mare , and toss her head , arch her glossy neck , and amble daintily along , a conscious and coquettish a a pretty woman , look round at her admire rider to return his compliment by glance of affection , and caress sniff of a velvet nose at his bare foot .
Miss Celia have be lay comfortably in bed by the farmer 's wife and daughter ; and , when the doctor arrive , bore the setting of her arm bravely .
No other serious damage appear , and bruise soon heal , so Ben be send home to comfort Thorny with a good report , and ask the Squire to drive up in his big carry-all for her the next day , if she be able to be move .
Mrs. Moss have be wise enough to say nothing , but quietly make what preparation she could , and wait for tidings .
Bab and Betty be away berrying , so no one have alarm Thorny , and he have his afternoon nap in peace , -- an unusually long one , owe to the stillness which prevail in the absence of the child ; and when he awake he lay read for a while before he begin to wonder where every one be .
Lounging out to see , he find Ben and Lita repose side by side on the fresh straw in the loose box , which have be make for her in the coach-house .
By the pail , sponge and curry-combs lying about , it be evident that she have be refresh by a careful washing and rub down , and my lady be now luxuriously rest after her labor , with her devoted groom half asleep close by .
`` Well , of all queer boy you be the queer , to spend this hot afternoon fussing over Lita , just for the fun of it ! ''
cry Thorny , look in at them with much amusement .
`` If you know what we 'd be do , you 'd think I ought to fuss over her , and both of u have a right to rest ! ''
answer Ben , rouse up as bright a a button ; for he long to tell his thrill tale , and have with difficulty be restrain from burst in on Thorny as soon a he arrive .
He make short work of the story , but be quite satisfied with the sensation it produce ; for his listener be startle , relieve , excite and charm , in such rapid succession , that he be oblige to sit upon the meal-chest and get his breath before he Could exclaim , with an emphatic demonstration of his heel against the bin , -- `` Ben Brown , I 'll never forget what you 've do for Celia this day , or say ` bow-legs ' again as long a I live . ''
`` George !
I felt a if I have six leg when we be go the pace .
We be all one piece , and have a jolly spin , do n't we , my beauty ? ''
and Ben chuckle a he take Lita 's head in his lap , while she answer with a gusty sigh that nearly blow him away .
`` Like the fellow that bring the good news from Ghent to Aix , '' say Thorny , survey the recumbent pair with great admiration .
`` What follow ? ''
ask Ben , wonder if he do n't mean Sheridan , of whose ride he have hear .
`` Do n't you know that piece ?
I speak it at school .
Give it to you now ; see if it be n't a rouser . ''
And , glad to find a vent from his excitement , Thorny mount the meal-chest , to thunder out that stir ballad with such spirit that Lita prick up her ear and Ben give a shrill `` Hooray ! ''
a the last verse end .
`` And all I remember be friend flock round , As I sit with his head ` twixt my knee on the ground , And no voice but be praise this Roland of mine , As I pour down his throat our last measure of wine , Which -LRB- the burgess vote by common consent -RRB- Was no more than his due who bring good news from Ghent . ''
CHAPTER XVI DETECTIVE THORNTON A few day later , Miss Celia be able to go about with her arm in a sling , pale still , and rather stiff , but so much good than any one expect , that all agree Mr. Paine be right in pronounce Dr. Mills `` a master hand with broken bone . ''
Two devoted little maid wait on her , two eager page stand ready to run her errand , and friendly neighbor send in delicacy enough to keep these four young person busily employ in dispose of them .
Every afternoon the great bamboo lounge chair be bring out and the interesting invalid conduct to it by stout Randa , who be head nurse , and follow by a train of shawl , cushion , foot-stool and book bearer , who buzz about like swarm bee round a new queen .
When all be settle , the little maid sew and the page read aloud , with much conversation by the way ; for one of the rule be , that all should listen attentively , and if any one do not understand what be read , he or she should ask to have it explain on the spot .
Whoever could answer be invite to do so , and at the end of the reading Miss Celia could ask any she like , or add any explanation which seem necessary .
In this way much pleasure and profit be extract from the tale Ben and Thorny read , and much unexpected knowledge as well a ignorance displayed , not to mention pile of neatly hem towel for which Bab and Betty be pay like regular sewing-women .
So vacation be not all play , and the girl find their picnic , berry party , and `` goin ' a visitin ' , '' all the more agreeable for the quiet hour spent with Miss Celia .
Thorny have improve wonderfully , and be get to be quite energetic , especially since his sister 's accident ; for while she be lay up he be the head of the house , and much enjoy his promotion .
But Ben do not seem to flourish a he have do at first .
The loss of Sancho preyed upon him sadly , and the longing to go and find his dog grow into such a strong temptation that he could hardly resist it .
He say little about it ; but now , and then a word escape him which might have enlighten any one who chance to be watch him .
No one be , just then , so he brood over this fancy , day by day , in silence and solitude , for there be no riding and driving now .
Thorny be busy with his sister try to show her that he remember how good she have be to him when he be ill , and the little girl have their own affair .
Miss Celia be the first to observe the change , have nothing to do but lie on the sofa and amuse herself by see others work or play .
Ben be bright enough at the reading , because then he forget his trouble ; but when they be over and his various duty do , he go to his own room or sought consolation with Lita , be sober and quiet , and quite unlike the merry monkey all know and like so well .
`` Thorny , what be the matter with Ben ? ''
ask Miss Celia , one day , when she and her brother be alone in the `` green parlor , '' a they call the lilac-tree walk .
`` Fretting about Sanch , I suppose .
I declare I wish that dog have never be bear !
Losing him have just spoil Ben .
Not a bit of fun leave in him , and he wo n't have any thing I offer to cheer him up . ''
Thorny speak impatiently , and knit his brow over the pressed flower he be neatly gum into his herbal .
`` I wonder if he have any thing on his mind ?
He act a if he be hide a trouble he do n't dare to tell .
Have you talk with him about it ? ''
ask Miss Celia , look a if she be hide a trouble she do not like to tell .
`` Oh , yes , I poke him up now and then , but he get peppery , so I let him alone .
May be he be long for his old circus again .
Should n't blame him much if he be ; it be n't very lively here , and he 's use to excitement , you know . ''
`` I hope it be n't that .
Do you think he would slip away without tell u , and go back to the old life again ?
Do n't believe he would .
Ben be n't a bit of a sneak ; that 's why I like him . ''
`` Have you ever find him sly or untrue in any way ? ''
ask Miss Celia , lower her voice .
`` No ; he 's a fair and square a fellow a I ever saw .
Little bit low , now and then , but he do n't mean it , and want to be a gentleman , only he never live with one before , and it 's all new to him .
I 'll get him polish up after a while . ''
`` Oh , Thorny , there be three peacock on the place , and you be the fine ! ''
laugh Miss Celia , a her brother spoke in his most condescending way with a lift of the eyebrow very droll to see .
`` And two donkey , and Ben 's the big , not to know when he be well off and happy ! ''
retort the `` gentleman , '' slap a dried specimen on the page a if he be pound discontent Ben .
`` Come here and let me tell you something which worry me .
I would not breathe it to another soul , but I feel rather helpless , and I dare say you can manage the matter good than I. '' Looking much mystify , Thorny go and sit on the stool at his sister 's foot , while she whisper confidentially in his ear : `` I 've lose some money out of my drawer , and I 'm so afraid Ben take it . ''
`` But it 's always lock up and you keep the key of the drawer and the little room ? ''
`` It be go , nevertheless , and I 've have my key safe all the time . ''
`` But why think it be he any more than Randa , or Katy , or me ? ''
`` Because I trust you three a I do myself .
I 've know the girl for year , and you have no object in take it since all I have be yours , dear . ''
`` And all mine be yours , of course .
But , Celia , how could he do it ?
He ca n't pick lock , I know , for we fuss over my desk together , and have to break it after all . ''
`` I never really think it possible till to-day when you be play ball and it go in at the upper window , and Ben climb up the porch after it ; you remember you say , ` If it have go in at the garret gable you could n't have do that so well ; ' and he answer , ` Yes , I could , there be n't a spout I ca n't shin up , or a bit of this roof I have n't be over . ' ''
`` So he do ; but there be no spout near the little room window . ''
`` There be a tree , and such an agile boy a Ben could swing in and out easily .
Now , Thorny , I hate to think this of him , but it have happen twice , and for his own sake I must stop it .
If he be plan to run away , money be a good thing to have .
And he may feel that it be his own ; for you know he ask me to put his wage in the bank , and I do .
He may not like to come to me for that , because he can give no good reason for want it .
I 'm so troubled I really do n't know what to do . ''
She look troubled , and Thorny put his arm about her a if to keep all worry but his own away from her .
`` Do n't you fret , Cely , dear ; you leave it to me .
I 'll fix him -- ungrateful little scamp ! ''
`` That be not the way to begin .
I be afraid you will make him angry and hurt his feeling , and then we can do nothing . ''
`` Bother his feeling !
I shall just say , calmly and coolly : ` Now , look here , Ben , hand over the money you take out of my sister 's drawer , and we 'll let you off easy , ' or something like that . ''
`` It would n't do , Thorny ; his temper would be up in a minute , and away he would go before we could find out whether he be guilty or not .
I wish I know how to manage . ''
`` Let me think , '' and Thorny lean his chin on the arm of the chair , star hard at the knocker a if he expect the lion 's mouth to open with word of counsel then and there .
`` By Jove , I do believe Ben take it ! ''
he break out suddenly ; `` for when I go to his room this morning to see why he do n't come and do my boot , he shut the drawer in his bureau as quick a a flash , and look red and queer , for I do n't knock , and sort of startle him . ''
`` He would n't be likely to put steal money there .
Ben be too wise for that . ''
`` He would n't keep it there , but he might be look at it and pitch it in when I call .
He 's hardly speak to me since , and when I ask him what his flag be at half-mast for , he would n't answer .
Besides , you know in the reading this afternoon he do n't listen , and when you ask what he be think about , he color up and mutter something about Sanch .
I tell you , Celia , it look bad -- very bad , '' and Thorny shake his head with a wise air .
`` It do , and yet we may be all wrong .
Let u wait a little and give the poor boy a chance to clear himself before we speak .
I 'd rather lose my money than suspect him falsely . ''
`` How much be it ? ''
`` Eleven dollar ; a one go first , and I suppose I 'd miscalculate somewhere when I take some out ; but when I miss a ten , I felt that I ought not to let it pass . ''
`` Look here , sister , you just put the case into my hand and let me work it up .
I wo n't say any thing to Ben till you give the word ; but I 'll watch him , and now that my eye be open , it wo n't be easy to deceive me . ''
Thorny be evidently please with the new play of detective , and intend to distinguish himself in that line ; but when Miss Celia ask how he mean to begin , he could only respond with a blank expression : `` Do n't know !
You give me the key and leave a bill or two in the drawer , and may be I can find him out somehow . ''
So the key be give , and the little dressing-room where the old secretary stand be closely watch for a day or two .
Ben cheer up a trifle which look a if he know an eye be upon him , but otherwise he go on a usual , and Miss Celia feel a little guilty at even harbor a suspicion of him , be kind and patient with his mood .
Thorny be very funny in the unnecessary mystery and fuss he make ; his affectation of careless indifference to Ben 's movement and his clumsy attempt to watch every one of them ; his dodging up and down stair , ostentatious clanking of key , and the elaborate trap he set to catch his thief , such a throw his ball in at the dressing-room window and send Ben up the tree to get it , which he do , thereby prove beyond a doubt that he alone could have take the money , Thorny think .
Another deep discovery be , that the old drawer be so shrunken that the lock could be press down by slip a knife-blade between the hasp and socket .
`` Now it be as clear a day , and you 'd better let me speak , '' he say , full of pride as well a regret at this triumphant success of his first attempt a a detective .
`` Not yet , and you need do nothing more .
I 'm afraid it be a mistake of mine to let you do this ; and if it have spoil your friendship with Ben , I shall be very sorry ; for I do not think he be guilty , '' answer Miss Celia .
`` Why not ? ''
and Thorny look annoy .
`` I 've watch also , and he do n't act like a deceitful boy .
To-day I ask him if he want any money , or should I put what I owe him with the rest , and he look me straight in the face with such honest , grateful eye , I could not doubt him when he say ` Keep it , please , I do n't need any thing here , you be all so good to me . ' ''
`` Now , Celia , do n't you be soft-hearted .
He 's a sly little dog , and know my eye be on him .
When I ask him what he saw in the dressing-room , after he bring out the ball , and look sharply at him , he laugh , and say ` Only a mouse , ' as saucy a you please . ''
`` Do set the trap there , I hear the mouse nibble last night , and it keep me awake .
We must have a cat or we shall be overrun . ''
`` Well , shall I give Ben a good blowing up , or will you ? ''
ask Thorny , scorn such poor prey a mouse , and bound to prove that he be in the right .
`` I 'll let you know what I have decide in the morning .
Be kind to Ben , meantime , or I shall feel a if I have do you harm by let you watch him . ''
So it be leave for that day , and by the next , Miss Celia have make up her mind to speak to Ben .
She be just go down to breakfast when the sound of loud voice make her pause and listen .
It come from Ben 's room , where the two boy seem to be dispute about something .
`` I hope Thorny have keep his promise , '' she think , and hurry through the back entry , fear a general explosion .
Ben 's chamber be at the end , and she could see and hear what be go on before she be near enough to interfere .
Ben stand against his closet door look a fierce and red a a turkey-cock ; Thorny sternly confront him , say in an excited tone , and with a threatening gesture : `` You be hide something in there , and you ca n't deny it . ''
`` I do n't . ''
`` Better not ; I insist on see it . ''
`` Well , you wo n't . ''
`` What have you be steal now ? ''
`` Did n't steal it , -- use to be mine , -- I only take it when I want it . ''
`` I know what that mean .
You 'd better give it back or I 'll make you . ''
`` Stop ! ''
cry a third voice , a Thorny put out his arm to clutch Ben , who look ready to defend himself to the last gasp , `` Boys , I will settle this affair .
Is there anything hidden in the closet , Ben ? ''
and Miss Celia come between the belligerent party with her one hand up to part them .
Thorny fell back at once , look half ashamed of his heat , and Ben briefly answer , with a gulp a if shame or anger make it hard to speak steadily : `` Yes 'm , there be . ''
`` Does it belong to you ? ''
`` Yes 'm , it do . ''
`` Where do you get it ? ''
`` Up to Squire 's . ''
`` That 's a lie ! ''
mutter Thorny to himself .
Ben 's eye flash , and his fist double up in spite of him , but he restrain himself out of respect for Miss Celia , who look puzzled , a she ask another question , not quite sure how to proceed with the investigation : `` Is it money , Ben ? ''
`` No 'm , it be n't . ''
`` Then what can it be ? ''
`` Meow ! ''
answer a fourth voice from the closet ; and a Ben flung open the door a gray kitten walk out , purr with satisfaction at her release .
Miss Celia fell into a chair and laugh till her eye be full ; Thorny look foolish , and Ben fold his arm , curl up his nose , and regard his accuser with calm defiance , while pussy sit down to wash her face a if her morning toilette have be interrupt by her sudden abduction .
`` That 's all very well , but it do n't mend matter much , so you need n't laugh , Celia , '' begin Thorny , recover himself , and stubbornly bent on sift the case to the bottom , now he have begin .
`` Well , it would , if you 'd let a feller alone .
She say she want a cat , so I go and get the one they give me when I be at the Squire 's .
I go early and take her without ask , and I have a right to , '' explain Ben , much aggrieve by have his surprise spoil .
`` It be very kind of you , and I 'm glad to have this nice kitty .
We will shut her up in my room to catch the mouse that plague me , '' say Miss Celia , pick up the little cat , and wonder how she would get her two angry boy safely down stair .
`` The dressing-room , she mean ; you know the way , and you do n't need key to get in , '' add Thorny , with such sarcastic emphasis that Ben felt some insult be intend , and promptly resent it .
`` You wo n't get me to climb any more tree after your ball , and my cat wo n't catch any of your mouse , so you need n't ask me . ''
`` Cats do n't catch thief , and they be what I 'm after ! ''
`` What do you mean by that ? ''
fiercely demanded Ben .
`` Celia have lose some money out of her drawer , and you wo n't let me see what 's in yours ; So I think , perhaps , you 'd get it ! ''
blurt out Thorny , find it hard to say the word , angry a he be , for the face opposite do not look like a guilty one .
For a minute , Ben do not seem to understand him , plainly a he speak ; then he turn an angry scarlet , and , with a reproachful glance at his mistress , open the little drawer so that both could see all that it contain .
`` They ai n't any thing ; but I 'm fond of 'em they be all I 've get -- I be afraid he 'd laugh at me that time , so I would n't let him look -- it be father 's birthday , and I felt bad about him and Sanch -- '' Ben 's indignant voice get more and more indistinct a he stumble on , and break down over the last word .
He do not cry , however , but throw back his little treasure a if half their sacredness be go ; and , make a strong effort at self-control , face around , ask of Miss Celia , with a grieved look , `` Did you think I 'd steal anything of yours ? ''
`` I try not to , Ben , but what could I do ?
It be go , and you the only stranger about the place . ''
`` Was n't there any one to think bad of but me ?
he say , so sorrowfully that Miss Celia make up her mind on the spot that he be a innocent of the theft a the kitten now bite her button , no other refreshment be offer .
`` Nobody , for I know my girl well .
Yet , eleven dollar be go , and I can not imagine where or how for both drawer and door be always lock , because my paper and valuable be in that room . ''
`` What a lot !
But how could I get it if it be lock up ? ''
and Ben look a if that question be unanswerable .
`` Folks that can climb in at window for a ball , can go the same way for money , and get it easy enough when they 've only to pry open an old lock ! ''
Thorny 's look and tone seem to make plain to Ben all that they have be suspect , and , be innocent , he be too perplexed and unhappy to defend himself .
His eye go from one to the other , and , see doubt in both face , his boyish heart sunk within him ; for he could prove nothing , and his first impulse be to go away at once .
`` I ca n't say any thing , only that I do n't take the money .
You wo n't believe it , so I 'd well go back where I come from .
They be n't so kind , but they trust me , and know I would n't steal a cent .
You may keep my money , and the kitty , too ; I do n't want 'em , '' and , snatch up his hat , Ben would go straight away , if Thorny have not bar his passage .
`` Come , now , do n't be mad .
Let 's talk it over , and if I 'm wrong I 'll take it all back and ask your pardon , '' he say , in a friendly tone , rather scar at the consequence of his first attempt , though as sure a ever that he be right .
`` It would break my heart to have you go in that way , Ben .
Stay at least till your innocence be prove , then no one can doubt what you say now . ''
`` Do n't see how it can be prove , '' answer Ben , appease by her evident desire to trust him .
`` We 'll try as well a we know how , and the first thing we will do be to give that old secretary a good rummage from top to bottom .
I 've do it once , but it be just possible that the bill may have slip out of sight .
Come , now , I ca n't rest till I 've do all I can to comfort you and convince Thorny . ''
Miss Celia rise a she speak , and lead the way to the dressing-room , which have no outlet except through her chamber .
Still hold his hat , Ben follow with a troubled face , and Thorny bring up the rear , doggedly determine to keep his eye on `` the little scamp '' till the matter be satisfactorily clear up .
Miss Celia have make her proposal more to soothe the feeling of one boy and to employ the superfluous energy of the other , than in the expectation of throw any light upon the mystery ; for she be sadly puzzle by Ben 's manner , and much regret that she have let her brother meddle in the matter .
`` There , '' she say , unlock the door with the key Thorny reluctantly give up to her , `` this be the room and that be the drawer on the right .
The low one have seldom be open since we come , and hold only some of papa 's old book .
Those upper one you may turn out and investigate as much a you -- Bless me !
here 's something in your trap , '' Thorny and Miss Celia give a little skip a she nearly tread on a long , gray tall , which hang out of the bole now fill by a plump mouse .
But her brother be intent on more serious thing , and merely push the trap aside a he pull out the drawer with an excited gesture , which send it and all it content clatter to the floor .
`` Confound the old thing !
It always stick so I have to give a jerk .
Now , there it be , topsy-turvy , '' and Thorny look Much disgust at his own awkwardness .
`` No harm do ; I leave nothing of value in it .
Look back there , Ben , and see if there be room for a paper to get work over the top of the drawer .
I felt quite a crack , but I do n't believe it be possible for thing to slip out ; the place be never full enough to overflow in any way . ''
Miss Celia speak to Ben , who be kneel down to pick up the scattered paper , among which be two marked dollar bill , -- Thorny 's bait for the thief .
Ben look into the dusty recess , and then put in his hand , say carelessly , -- `` There 's nothing but a bit of red stuff . ''
`` My old pen-wiper -- Why , what 's the matter ? ''
ask Miss Celia , a Ben drop the handful of what look like rubbish .
`` Something warm and wiggly inside of it , '' answer Ben , stoop to examine the content of the little scarlet bundle .
`` Baby mouse !
Ai n't they funny ?
Look just like mite of young pig .
We 'll have to kill 'em if you 've catch their mamma , '' he say , forget his own trial in boyish curiosity about his `` find . ''
Miss Celia stoop also , and gently poke the red cradle with her finger ; for the tiny mouse be nestle deeper into the fluff with small squeal of alarm .
Suddenly she cry out : `` Boys , boys , I 've find the thief !
Look here ; pull out these bit and see if they wo n't make up my lost bill . ''
Down go the motherless baby a four ruthless hand pull apart their cosey nest , and there , among the nibbled fragment , appear enough finely print , greenish paper , to piece out part of two bank bill .
A large cypher and part of a figure one be visible , and that account for the ten ; but though there be other bit , no figure could be find , and they be willing to take the other bill on trust .
`` Now , then , be I a thief and a liar ? ''
demand Ben , point proudly to the tell-tale letter spread forth on the table , over which all three have be eagerly bending .
`` No ; I beg your pardon , and I 'm very sorry that we do n't look more carefully before we speak , then we all should have be spar this pain . ''
`` All right , old fellow , forgive and forget .
I 'll never think hard of you again , -- on my honor I wo n't . ''
As they speak , Miss Celia and her brother hold out their hand frankly and heartily .
Ben shake both , but with a difference ; for he press the soft one gratefully , remember that it owner have always be good to him ; but the brown paw he grip with a vengeful squeeze that make Thorny pull it away in a hurry , exclaim , good-naturedly , in spite of both physical and mental discomfort , -- `` Come , Ben , do n't you bear malice ; for you 've get the laugh on your side , and we feel pretty small .
I do , any way ; for , after my fidget , all I 've catch be a mouse ! ''
`` And her family .
I 'm so relieved I 'm almost sorry the poor little mother be dead -- she and her baby be so happy in the old pen-wiper , '' say Miss Celia , hasten to speak merrily , for Ben still look indignant , and she be much grieve at what have happen .
`` A pretty expensive house , '' begin Thorny , look about for the interesting orphan , who have be leave on the floor while their paper-hangings be examine .
No further anxiety need be felt for them , however ; Kitty have come upon the scene , and a judge , jury , and prisoner , turn to find the little witness , they behold the last pink mite go down Pussy 's throat in one mouthful .
`` I call that summary justice , -- the whole family execute on the spot !
Give Kit the mouse also , and let u go to breakfast .
I feel a if I have find my appetite , now this worry be off my mind , '' say Miss Celia , laugh so infectiously that Ben have to join in spite of himself , a she take his arm and lead him away with a look which mutely ask his pardon over again .
`` Rather lively for a funeral procession , '' say Thorny , follow with the trap in his hand and Puss at his heel , add , to comfort his pride a a detective : `` Well , I say I 'd catch the thief , and I have , though it be rather a small one ! ''
CHAPTER XVII BETTY 'S BRAVERY `` Celia , I 've a notion that we ought to give Ben something .
A sort of peace-offering , you know ; for he feel dreadfully hurt about our suspect him , '' say Thorny , at dinner that day .
`` I see he do , though he try to seem a bright and pleasant a ever .
I do not wonder , and I 've be think what I could do to soothe his feeling .
Can you suggest any thing ? ''
`` Cuff-buttons .
I saw some jolly one over at Berryville , oxidize silver , with dog ' head on them , yellow eye , and all as natural a could be .
Those , now , would just suit him for his go-to-meeting white shirt , -- neat , appropriate , and in memoriam . ''
Miss Celia could not help laughing , it be such a boyish suggestion ; but she agree to it , think Thorny know best , and hop the yellow-eyed dog would be a balm to Ben 's wound .
`` Well , dear , you may give those , and Lita shall give the little whip with a horse 's foot for a handle , if it be not go .
I saw it at the harness shop in town ; and Ben admire it so much that I plan to give it to him on his birthday . ''
`` That will tickle him immensely ; and if you 'd just let him put brown top to my old boot , and stick a cockade in his hat when he sit up behind the phaeton , he 'd be a happy fellow , '' laugh Thorny , who have discover that one of Ben 's ambition be to be a tip-top groom .
`` No , thank you ; those thing be out of place in America , and would be absurd in a small country place like this .
His blue suit and straw hat please me good for a boy ; though a nice little groom , in livery or out , no one could desire , and you may tell him I say so . ''
`` I will , and he 'll look as proud a punch ; for he think every word you say worth a dozen from any one else .
But wo n't you give him something ?
Just some little trifle , to show that we be both eat humble pie , feel sorry about the mouse money . ''
`` I shall give him a set of school-books , and try to get him ready to begin when vacation be over .
An education be the best present we can make him ; and I want you to help me fit him to enter as well be he can .
Bab and Betty begin , little dear , -- lend him their book and teach all they know ; so Ben get a taste , and , with the right encouragement , would like to go on , I be sure . ''
`` That 's so like you Celia !
Always think of the best thing and do it handsomely .
I 'll help like a house a-fire , if he will let me ; but , all day , he 's be as stiff a a poker , so I do n't believe he forgive me a bit . ''
`` He will in time , and if you be kind and patient , he will be glad to have you help him .
I shall make it a sort of favor to me on his part , to let you see to his lesson , now and then .
It will be quite true , for I do n't want you to touch your Latin or algebra till cool weather ; teach him will be play to you . ''
Miss Celia 's last word make her brother unbend his brow , for he long to get at his book again , and the idea of be tutor to his `` man-servant '' do not altogether suit him .
`` I 'll tool him along at a great pace , if he will only go .
Geography and arithmetic shall be my share , and you may have the writing and spelling ; it give me the fidget to set copy ' , and hear child make a mess of word .
Shall I get the book when I buy the other thing ?
Can I go this afternoon ? ''
`` Yes , here be the list ; Bab give it to me .
You can go if you will come home early and have your tooth fill . ''
Gloom fell at once upon Thorny 's beam face , and he give such a shrill whistle that his sister jump in her chair , a she add , persuasively , -- `` It wo n't hurt a bit , now , and the long you leave it the bad it will be .
Dr. Mann be ready at any time ; and , once over , you will be at peace for month .
Come , my hero , give your order , and take one of the girl to support you in the try hour .
Have Bab ; she will enjoy it , and amuse you with her chatter . ''
`` As if I need girl round for such a trifle a that ! ''
return Thorny with a shrug , though he groan inwardly at the prospect before him , a most of u do on such occasion .
`` I would n't take Bab at any price ; she 'd only get into some scrape , and upset the whole plan .
Betty be the chicken for me , -- a real little lady , and a nice and purry a a kitten . ''
`` Very well ; ask her mother , and take good care of her .
Let her tuck her dolly in , and she will be content anywhere .
There 's a fine air , and the awning be on the phaeton , so you wo n't feel the sun .
Start about three , and drive carefully . ''
Betty be charm to go , for Thorny be a sort of prince in her eye ; and to be invite to such a grand expedition be an overwhelming honor .
Bab be not surprised , for , since Sancho 's loss , she have felt herself in disgrace , and be unusually meek ; Ben let her `` severely alone , '' which much afflict her , for he be her great admiration , and have be please to express his approbation of her agility and courage so often , that she be ready to attempt any fool-hardy feat to recover his regard .
But vainly do she risk her neck jumping off the high beam in the barn , try to keep her balance standing on the donkey 's back , and leap the lodge gate at a bound ; Ben vouchsafe no reward by a look , a smile , a word of commendation ; and Bab felt that nothing but Sancho 's return would ever restore the broken friendship .
Into faithful Betty 's bosom do she pour forth her remorseful lamentation , often burst out with the passionate exclamation , `` If I could only find Sanch , and give him back to Ben , I would n't care if I tumble down and break all my leg right away ! ''
Such abandonment of woe make a deep impression on Betty ; and she fell into the way of console her sister by cheerful prophecy , and a firm belief that the organ-man would yet appear with the lose darling .
`` I 've get five cent of my berry money , and I 'll buy you an orange if I see any , '' promise Betty step to kiss Bab , a the phaeton come to the door , and Thorny hand in a young lady whose white frock be so stiff with starch that it crackle like paper .
`` Lemons will do if orange be go .
I like 'em to suck with lot of sugar , '' answer Bab , feel that the sour sadly predominate in her cup just now .
`` Do n't she look sweet , the dear ! ''
murmur Mrs. Moss , proudly survey her young .
She certainly do , sit under the fringed canopy with `` Belinda , '' all in her best , upon her lap , a she turn to smile and nod , with a face so bright and winsome under the little blue hat , that it be no wonder mother and sister thought there never be such a perfect child a `` our Betty . ''
Dr. Mann be busy when they arrive , but would be ready in an hour ; so they do their shopping at once , have make sure of the whip a they come along .
Thorny add some candy to Bab 's lemon , and Belinda have a cake , which her mamma obligingly ate for her .
Betty think that Aladdin 's palace could not have be more splendid than the jeweller 's shop where the canine cuff-buttons be buy ; but when they come to the book-store , she forget gold , silver , and precious stone , to revel in picture-books , while Thorny select Ben 's modest school outfit .
Seeing her delight , and feel particularly lavish with plenty of money in his pocket , the young gentleman complete the child 's bliss by tell her to choose whichever one she like best out of the pile of Walter Crane 's toy-books lying in bewilder color before her .
`` This one ; Bab always want to see the dreadful cupboard , and there 's a picture of it here , '' answer Betty , clasp a gorgeous copy of `` Bluebeard '' to the little bosom , which still heave with the rapture of look at that delicious mixture of lovely Fatimas in pale azure gown , pink Sister Annes on the turret top , crimson tyrant , and yellow brother with forest of plumage blow wildly from their mushroom-shaped cap .
`` Very good ; there you be , then .
Now , come on , for the fun be over and the grind begin , '' say Thorny , march away to his doom , with his tongue in his tooth , and trepidation in his manly breast .
`` Shall I shut my eye and hold your head ? ''
quaver devoted Betty , a they go up the stair so many reluctant foot have mount before them .
`` Nonsense , child , never mind me !
You look out of window and amuse yourself ; we shall not be long , I guess ; '' and in go Thorn silently hop that the dentist have be suddenly call away , or some person with an excruciate toothache would be wait to take ether , and so give our young man an excuse for postpone his job .
But no ; Dr. Mann be quite at leisure , and , full of smile interest , await his victim , lay forth his unpleasant little tool with the exasperate alacrity of his kind .
Glad to be release from any share in the operation , Betty retire to the back window to be a far away a possible , and for half in hour be so absorbed in her book that poor Thorny might have groan dismally without disturb her .
`` Done now , directly , only a trifle of polish off and a look round , '' say Dr. Mann , at last ; and Thorny , with a yawn that nearly rent him asunder , call out , -- `` Thank goodness !
Pack up , Bettykin . ''
`` I 'm all ready ! ''
and , shut her book with a start , she slip down from the easy chair in a great hurry .
But `` look round '' take time ; and , before the circuit of Thorny 's mouth be satisfactorily make , Betty have become absorb by a more interesting tale than even the immortal `` Bluebeard . ''
A noise of child 's voice in the narrow alley-way behind the house attract her attention ; the long window open directly on the yard , and the gate swung in the wind .
Curious a Fatima , Betty go to look ; but all she saw be a group of excited boy peep between the bar of another gate far down .
`` What 's the matter ? ''
she ask of two small girl , who stand close by her , long but not dare to approach the scene of action .
`` Boys chase a great black cat , I believe , '' answer one child .
`` Want to come and see ? ''
add the other , politely extend the invitation to the stranger .
The thought of a cat in trouble would have nerve Betty to face a dozen boy ; so she follow at once , meet several lad hurry away on some important errand , to judge from their anxious countenance .
`` Hold tight , Jimmy , and let 'em peek , if they want to .
He ca n't hurt anybody now , '' say one of the dusty huntsman , who sit on the wide coping of the wall , while two others hold the gate , a if a cat could only escape that way .
`` You peek first , Susy , and see if it look nice , '' say one little girl , boost her friend so that she could look through the bar in the upper part of the gate .
`` No ; it 's only an ugly old dog ! ''
respond Susy , lose all interest at once , and descend with a bounce .
`` He 's mad !
and Jud 's go to get his gun , so we can shoot him ! ''
call out one mischievous boy , resent the contempt express for their capture .
`` Ai n't , neither ! ''
howl another lad from his perch .
`` Mad dog wo n't drink ; and this one be lap out of a tub of water . ''
`` Well , he may be , and we do n't know him , and he have n't get any muzzle on , and the police will kill him if Jud do n't , '' answer the sanguinary youth who have first start the chase after the poor animal , which have come limp into town , so evidently a lose dog that no one felt any hesitation in stone him .
`` We must go right home ; my mother be dreadful ` fraid of mad dog , and so be yours , '' say Susy ; and , have satisfy their curiosity , the young lady prudently retire .
But Betty have not have her `` peep , '' and could not resist one look ; for she have heard of these unhappy animal , and think Bab would like to know how they look .
So she stand on tip-toe and get a good view of a dusty , brownish dog , lie on the grass close by , with his tongue hang out while he pant , a if exhaust by fatigue and fear , for he still cast apprehensive glance at the wall which divide him from his tormentor .
`` His eye be just like Sanch 's , '' say Betty to herself , unconscious that she speak aloud , till she saw the creature prick up his car and half rise , a if he have be call .
`` He look a if he know me , but it be n't our Sancho ; he be a lovely dog . ''
Betty say that to the little boy peep in beside her ; but before he could make any reply , the brown beast stand straight up with an inquire bark , while his eye shine like topaz , and the short tail wag excitedly .
`` Why , that 's just the way Sanch use to do ! ''
cry Betty , bewilder by the familiar way of this unfamiliar-looking dog .
As if the repetition of his name settle his own doubt , he leap toward the gate and thrust a pink nose between the bar , with a howl of recognition a Betty 's face be more clearly see .
The boy tumble precipitately from their perch , and the little girl fell back alarm , yet could not bear to run away and leave those implore eye plead to her through the bar so eloquently .
`` He act just like our dog , but I do n't see how it can be him .
Sancho , Sancho , be it really you ? ''
call Betty , at her wit ' end what to do .
`` Bow , wow , wow ! ''
answer the well-known bark , and the little tail do all it could to emphasize the sound , while the eye be so full of dumb love and joy , the child could not refuse to believe that this ugly stray be their own Sancho strangely transform .
All of a sudden , the thought rush into her mind , how glad Ben would be !
-- and Bab would feel all happy again .
`` I must carry him home . ''
Never stop to think of danger , and forget all her doubt , Betty catch the gate handle out of Jimmy 's grasp , exclaim eagerly : `` He be our dog !
Let me go in ; I ai n't afraid . ''
`` Not till Jud come back ; he tell u we must n't , '' answer the astonished Jimmy , think the little girl as mad a the dog .
With a confused idea that the unknown Jud have go for a gun to shoot Sanch , Betty give a desperate pull at the latch and run into the yard , bent on save her friend .
That it be a friend there could be no further question ; for , though the creature rush at her a if about to devour her at a mouthful , it be only to roll ecstatically at her foot , lick her hand , and gaze into her face , try to pant out the welcome which he could not utter .
An old and more prudent person would have wait to make sure before venture in ; but confide Betty know little of the danger which she might have run ; her heart speak more quickly than her head , and , not stop to have the truth prove , she take the brown dog on trust , and find it be indeed dear Sanch .
Sitting on the grass , she hug him close , careless of tumbled hat , dusty paw on her clean frock , or a row of strange boy star from the wall .
`` Darling doggy , where have you be so long ? ''
she cry , the great thing sprawl across her lap , a if he could not get near enough to his brave little protector .
`` Did they make you black and beat you , dear ?
Oh , Sanch , where be your tail -- your pretty tail ? ''
A plaintive growl and a pathetic wag be all the answer he could make to these tender inquiry ; for never would the story of his wrong be know , and never could the glory of his doggish beauty be restore .
Betty be try to comfort him with pat and praise , when a new face appear at the gate , and Thorny 's authoritative voice call out , -- `` Betty Moss , what on earth be you do in there with that dirty beast ? ''
`` It 's Sanch , it 's Sanch !
Oh , come and see ! ''
shriek Betty , fly up to lead forth her prize .
But the gate be hold fast , for some one say the word , `` Mad dog , '' and Thorny be very naturally alarm , because he have already see one .
`` Do n't stay there another minute .
Get up on that bench and I 'll pull you over , '' direct Thorny , mount the wall to rescue his charge in hot haste ; for the dog do certainly behave queerly , limp hurriedly to and fro , a if anxious to escape .
No wonder , when Sancho hear a voice he know , and recognize another face , yet do not meet a kind a welcome a before .
`` No , I 'm not come out till he do .
It be Sanch , and I 'm go to take him home to Ben , '' answer Betty , decidedly , a she wet her handkerchief in the rain water to bind up the swollen paw that have travel many mile to rest in her little hand again .
`` You 're crazy , child .
That be no more Ben 's dog than I be . ''
`` See if it be n't ! ''
cry Betty , perfectly unshaken in her faith ; and , recall the word of command as well a she could , she try to put Sancho through his little performance , a the sure proof that she be right .
The poor fellow do his best , weary and foot-sore though he be ; but when it come to take his tail in his mouth to waltz , he give it up , and , drop down , hide his face in his paw , a he always do when any of his trick fail .
The act be almost pathetic now , for one of the paw be bandage , and his whole attitude express the humiliation of a broken spirit .
That touch Thorny , and , quite convinced both of the dog 's sanity and identity , he spring down from the wall with Ben 's own whistle , which gladden Sancho 's longing ear as much a the boy 's rough caress comfort his homesick heart .
`` Now , let 's carry him right home , and surprise Ben .
Wo n't he be please ? ''
say Betty , so in earnest that she try to lift the big brute in spite of his protesting yelp .
`` You be a little trump to find him out in spite of all the horrid thing that have be do to him .
We must have a rope to lead him , for he 's get no collar and no muzzle .
He have get friend though , and I 'd like to see any one touch him now .
Out of the way , there , boy ! ''
Looking as commanding a a drum-major , Thorny clear a passage , and with one arm about his neck , Betty proudly lead her treasure magnanimously ignore his late foe , and keep his eye fix on the faithful friend whose tender little heart have know him in spite of all disguise .
`` I find him , sir , '' and the lad who have be most eager for the shooting , step forward to claim any reward that might be offer for the now valuable victim .
`` I keep him safe till she come , '' add the jailer Jimmy , speak for himself .
`` I say he be n't mad , '' cry a third , feel that his discrimination deserve approval .
`` Jud ai n't my brother , '' say the fourth , eager to clear his skirt from all offence .
`` But all of you chase and stone him , I suppose ?
You 'd better look out or you 'll get report to the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals . ''
With this awful and mysterious threat , Thorny slam the doctor 's gate in the face of the mercenary youth , nip their hope in the bud , and teach them a good lesson .
After one astonish stare , Lita accept Sancho without demur , and they greet one another cordially , nose to nose , instead of shake hand .
Then the dog nestle into his old place under the linen duster with a grunt of intense content , and soon fell fast asleep , quite wear out with fatigue .
No Roman conqueror bear untold treasure with him , ever approach the Eternal City feel rich or proud than do Miss Betty a she roll rapidly toward the little brown house with the captive won by her own arm .
Poor Belinda be forget in a corner , `` Bluebeard '' be thrust under the cushion , and the lovely lemon be squeeze before it time by be sat upon ; for all the child could think of be Ben 's delight , Bab 's remorseful burden lift off , `` Ma 's '' surprise , and Miss Celia 's pleasure .
She could hardly realize the happy fact , and keep peep under the cover to be sure that the dear dingy bunch at her foot be truly there .
`` I 'll tell you how we 'll do it , '' say Thorny , break a long silence a Betty compose herself with an irrepressible wriggle of delight after one of these refresh peep .
`` We 'll keep Sanch hidden , and smuggle him into Ben 's old room at your house .
Then I 'll drive on to the barn , and not say a word , but send Ben to get something out of that room .
You just let him in , to see what he 'll do .
I 'll bet you a dollar he wo n't know his own dog . ''
`` I do n't believe I can keep from scream right out when I see him , but I 'll try .
Oh , wo n't it be fun ! ''
-- and Betty clap her hand in joyful anticipation of that exciting moment .
A nice little plan , but Master Thorny forget the keen sens of the amiable animal snore peacefully among his boot ; and , when they stop at the Lodge , he have barely time to say in a whisper , `` Ben 's come ; cover Sanch and let me get him in quick ! ''
before the dog be out of the phaeton like a bombshell , and the approaching boy go down a if shot , for Sancho give one leap , and the two roll over and over , with a shout and a bark of rapturous recognition .
`` Who be hurt ? ''
ask Mrs. Moss , run out with floury hand uplift in alarm .
`` Is it a bear ? ''
cry Bab , rush after her , beater in hand , for a dancing bear be the delight of her heart .
`` Sancho 's found !
Sancho 's found ! ''
shout Thorny , throw up his hat like a lunatic .
`` Found , find , find ! ''
echoed Betty , dance wildly about a if she too have lose her little wit .
`` Where ?
how ?
when ?
who do it ? ''
ask Mrs. Moss , clap her dusty hand delightedly .
`` It be n't ; it 's an old dirty brown thing , '' stammer Bab , a the dog come uppermost for a minute , and then root into Ben 's jacket a if he smelt a woodchuck , and be bind to have him out directly .
Then Thorny , with many interruption from Betty , pour forth the wondrous tale , to which Bab and his mother listen breathlessly , while the muffin burn as black a a coal , and nobody care a bit .
`` My precious lamb , how do you dare to do such a thing ? ''
exclaim Mrs. Moss , hug the small heroine with mingled admiration and alarm .
`` I 'd have dare , and slap those horrid boy , too .
I wish I 'd go ! ''
and Bab felt that she have for ever lose the chance of distinguish herself .
`` Who cut his tail off ? ''
demand Ben , in a menacing tone , a he come uppermost in his turn , dusty , red and breathless , but radiant .
`` The wretch who steal him , I suppose ; and he deserve to be hang , '' answer Thorny , hotly .
`` If ever I catch him , I 'll -- I 'll cut his nose off , '' roar Ben , with such a vengeful glare that Sanch bark fiercely ; and it be well that the unknown `` wretch '' be not there , for it would have go hardly with him , since even gentle Betty frown , while Bab brandish the egg-beater menacingly , and their mother indignantly declare that `` it be too bad ! ''
Relieved by this general outburst , they compose their outraged feeling ; and while the returned wanderer go from one to another to receive a tender welcome from each , the story of his recovery be more calmly told .
Ben listen with his eye devour the injured dog ; and when Thorny pause , he turn to the little heroine , say solemnly , a he lay her hand with his own on Sancho 's head , `` Betty Moss , I 'll never forget what you do ; from this minute half of Sanch be your truly own , and if I die you shall have the whole of him , '' and Ben seal the precious gift with a sound kiss on either chubby check .
Betty be so deeply touch by this noble bequest , that the blue eye fill and would have overflow if Sanch have not politely offer his tongue like a red pocket-handkerchlef , and so make her laugh the drop away , while Bab set the rest off by say gloomily , -- `` I mean to play with all the mad dog I can find ; then folk will think I 'm smart and give me nice thing . ''
`` Poor old Bab , I 'll forgive you now , and lend you my half whenever you want it , '' say Ben , feel at peace now with all mankind , include , girl who tag .
`` Come and show him to Celia , '' beg Thorny , eager to fight his battle over again .
`` Better wash him up first ; he 's a sight to see , poor thing , '' suggest Mrs. Moss , a she run in , suddenly remember her muffin .
`` It will take a lot of washing to get that brown stuff off .
See , his pretty , pink skin be all stain with it .
We 'll bleach him out , and his curl will grow , and he 'll be as good a ever -- all but -- '' Ben could not finish , and a general wail go up for the departed tassel that would never wave proudly in the breeze again .
`` I 'll buy him a new one .
Now form the procession and let u go in style , '' say Thorny , cheerily , a he swing Betty to his shoulder and march away whistle `` Hail !
the conquering hero come , '' while Ben and his Bow-wow followed arm-in-arm , and Bab bring up the rear , bang on a milk-pan with the egg-beater .
CHAPTER XVIII BOWS AND ARROWS If Sancho 's abduction make a stir , one may easily imagine with what warmth and interest he be welcome back when his wrong and wandering be know .
For several day he hold regular levee , that curious boy and sympathize girl might see and pity the changed and curtail dog .
Sancho behave with dignified affability , and sit upon his mat in the coach-house pensively eye his guest , and patiently submit to their caress ; while Ben and Thorny take turn to tell the few tragical fact which be not shroud in the deepest mystery .
If the interesting sufferer could only have speak , what thrill adventure and hair-breadth escape he might have relate .
But , ala !
he be dumb ; and the secret of that memorable month never be reveal .
The lame paw soon heal , the dingy color slowly yield to many washing , the woolly coat begin to knot up into little curl , a new collar , handsomely mark , make him a respectable dog , and Sancho be himself again .
But it be evident that his suffering be not forget ; his once sweet temper be a trifle sour ; and , with a few exception , he have lose his faith in mankind .
Before , he have be the most benevolent and hospitable of dog ; now , he eye all stranger suspiciously , and the sight of a shabby man make him growl and bristle up , a if the memory of his wrong still burn hotly within him .
Fortunately , his gratitude be strong than his resentment , and he never seem to forget that he owe his life to Betty , -- run to meet her whenever she appear , instantly obey her command , and suffer no one to molest her when he walk watchfully beside her , with her hand upon his neck , a they have walk out of the almost fatal backyard together , faithful friend for ever .
Miss Celia call them little Una and her lion , and read the pretty story to the child when they wonder what she mean .
Ben , with great pain , teach the dog to spell `` Betty , '' and surprise her with a display of this new accomplishment , which gratify her so much that she be never tire of see Sanch paw the five red letter into place , then come and lay his nose in her hand , a if he add , `` That 's the name of my dear mistress . ''
Of course Bab be glad to have everything pleasant and friendly again ; but in a little dark corner of her heart there be a drop of envy , and a desperate desire to do something which would make every one in her small world like and praise her a they do Betty .
Trying to be as good and gentle do not satisfy her ; she must do something brave or surprising , and no chance for distinguish herself in that way seem likely to appear .
Betty be as fond a ever , and the boy be very kind to her ; but she felt that they both like `` little Betcinda , '' a they call her , best , because she find Sanch , and never seem to know that she have do any thing brave in defend him against all odds .
Bab do not tell any one how she felt , but endeavor to be amiable , while wait for her chance to come ; and , when it do arrive , make the most of it , though there be nothing heroic to add a charm .
Miss Celia 's arm have be do very well , but would , of course , be useless for some time longer .
Finding that the afternoon reading amuse herself as much a they do the child , she keep them up , and bring out all her old favorite enjoy a double pleasure in see that her young audience relish them as much a she do when a child for to all but Thorny they be brand new .
Out of one of these story come much amusement for all , and satisfaction for one of the party .
`` Celia , do you bring our old bow ? ''
ask her brother , eagerly , a she put down the book from which she have be read Miss Edgeworth 's capital story of `` Waste not Want not ; or , Two Strings to your Bow . ''
`` Yes , I bring all the plaything we leave store away in uncle 's garret when we go abroad .
The bow be in the long box where you find the mallet , fishing-rods , and bat .
The old quiver and a few arrow be there also , I believe .
What be the idea now ?
ask Miss Celia in her turn , a Thorny bounce up in a great hurry .
`` I 'm go to teach Ben to shoot .
Grand fun this hot weather ; and by-and-by we 'll have an archery meeting , and you can give u a prize .
Come on , Ben .
I 've get plenty of whip-cord to rig up the bow , and then we 'll show the lady some first-class shooting . ''
`` I ca n't ; never have a decent bow in my life .
The little gilt one I use to wave round when I be a Coopid be n't worth a cent to go , '' answer Ben , feeling a if that paint `` prodigy '' must have be a very distant connection of the respectable young person now walk off arm in arm with the lord of the manor .
`` Practice be all you want .
I use to be a capital shot , but I do n't believe I could hit any thing but a barn-door now , '' answer Thorny , encouragingly .
As the boy vanish , with much tramping of boot and banging of door , Bab observe , in the young-ladyish tone she be apt to use when she compose her active little mind and body to the feminine task of needlework , -- `` We use to make bow of whalebone when we be little girl , but we be too old to play so now . ''
`` I 'd like to , but Bab wo n't , 'cause she 's most ` leven year old , '' say honest Betty , placidly rub her needle in the `` ruster , '' a she call the family emery-bag .
`` Grown people enjoy archery , a bow and arrow shooting be call , especially in England .
I be read about it the other day , and saw a picture of Queen Victoria with her bow ; so you need n't be ashamed of it , Bab , '' say Miss Celia , rummage among the book and paper in her sofa corner to find the magazine she want , think a new play would be as good for the girl a for the big boy .
`` A queen , just think ! ''
and Betty look much impress by the fact , as well a uplift by the knowledge that her friend do not agree in think her silly because she prefer play with a harmless home-made toy to fire stone or snap a pop-gun .
`` In old time , bow and arrow be use to fight great battle with ; and we read how the English archer shoot so well that the air be dark with arrow , and many men be kill . ''
`` So do the Indians have 'em ; and I 've get some stone arrow-heads , -- find 'em by the river , in the dirt ! ''
cry Bab , wake up , for battle interested her more than queen .
`` While you finish your stint I 'll tell you a little story about the Indians , '' say Miss Celia , lie back on her cushion , while the needle begin to go again , for the prospect of a story could not be resist .
`` A century or more ago , in a small settlement on the bank of the Connecticut , -- which mean the Long River of Pines , -- there live a little girl call Matty Kilburn .
On a hill stand the fort where the people run for protection in any danger , for the country be new and wild , and more than once the Indians have come down the river in their canoe and burn the house , kill men , and carry away woman and child .
Matty live alone with her father , but felt quite safe in the log house , for he be never far away .
One afternoon , a the farmer be all busy in their field , the bell rang suddenly , -- a sign that there be danger near , -- and , drop their rake or ax , the men hurry to their house to save wife and baby , and such few treasure a they could .
Mr. Kilburn catch up his gun with one hand and his little girl with the other , and run as fast a he could toward the fort .
But before he could reach it he hear a yell , and saw the red men come up from the river .
Then he know it would be in vain to try to get in , so he look about for a safe place to hide Matty till he could come for her .
He be a brave man , and could fight , so he have no thought of hide while his neighbor need help ; but the dear little daughter must be care for first .
`` In the corner of the lonely pasture which they dare not cross , stand a big hollow elm , and there the farmer hastily hide Matty , drop her down into the dim nook , round the mouth of which young shoot have grow , so that no one would have suspect any hole be there .
`` Lie still , child , till I come ; say your prayer and wait for father , ' say the man , a he part the leaf for a last glance at the small , frightened face look up at him . ''
` Come soon , ' whisper Matty , and try to smile bravely , a a stout settler 's girl should .
`` Mr. Kilburn go away , and be take prisoner in the fight , carry off , and for year no one know whether he be alive or dead .
People miss Matty , but suppose she be with her father , and never expect to see her again .
A great while afterward the poor man come back , have escape and make his way through the wilderness to his old home .
His first question be for Matty , but no one have see her ; and when he tell them where he have leave her , they shake their head a if they think he be crazy .
But they go to look , that he might be satisfy ; and he be ; for they they find some little bone , some fade bit of cloth , and two rusty silver buckle mark with Matty 's name in what have once be her shoe .
An Indian arrow lay there , too , show why she have never cry for help , but wait patiently so long for father to come and find her . ''
If Miss Celia expect to see the last bit of hem do when her story end , she be disappointed ; for not a dozen stitch have be take .
Betty be use her crash towel for a handkerchief , and Bab 's lay on the ground a she listen with snap eye to the little tragedy .
`` Is it true ? ''
ask Betty , hop to find relief in be tell that it be not .
`` Yes ; I have see the tree , and the mound where the fort be , and the rusty buckle in an old farmhouse where other Kilburns live , near the spot where it all happen , '' answer Miss Celia , look out the picture of Victoria to console her auditor .
`` We 'll play that in the old apple-tree .
Betty can scrooch down , and I 'll be the father , and put leaf on her , and then I 'll be a great Injun and fire at her .
I can make arrow , and it will be fun , wo n't it ? ''
cry Bab , charm with the new drama in which she could act the leading part .
`` No , it wo n't !
I do n't like to go in a cobwebby hole , and have you play kill me , I 'll make a nice fort of hay , and be all safe , and you can put Dinah down there for Matty .
I do n't love her any more , now her last eye have tumble out , and you may shoot her just as much a yon like . ''
Before Bab could agree to this satisfactory arrangement , Thorny appear , sing , a he aim at a fat robin , whose red waistcoat look rather warm and winterish that August day , -- `` So he take up his bow , And he feather his arrow , And say , ' I will shoot This little cock-sparrow . ' ''
`` But he do n't , '' chirp the robin , fly away , with a contemptuous flirt of his rusty-black tail .
`` That be exactly what you must promise not to do , boys .
Fire away at your target as much a you like , but do not harm any living creature , '' say Miss Celia , a Ben follow arm and equip with her own long-unused accoutrement .
`` Of course we wo n't if you say so ; but , with a little practice , I could bring down a bird as well a that fellow you read to me about with his woodpecker and lark and heron , '' answer Thorny , who have much enjoy the article , while his sister lament over the destruction of the innocent bird .
`` You 'd do well to borrow the Squire 's old stuffed owl for a target ; there would be some chance of your hit him , he be so big , '' say his sister , who always make fun of the boy when he begin to brag .
Thorny 's only reply be to send his arrow straight up so far out of sight that it be a long while come down again to stick quiver in the ground near by , whence Sancho bring it in his mouth , evidently highly approve of a game in which he could join .
`` Not bad for a beginning .
Now , Ben , fire away . ''
But Ben 's experience with bow be small , and , in spite of his praiseworthy effort to imitate his great exemplar , the arrow only turn a feeble sort of somersault and descend perilously near Bab 's uplifted nose .
`` If you endanger other people 's life and liberty in your pursuit of happiness , I shall have to confiscate your arm , boy .
Take the orchard for your archery ground ; that be safe , and we can see you a we sit here .
I wish I have two hand , so that I could paint you a fine , gay target ; '' and Miss Celia look regretfully at the injured arm , which a yet be of little use .
`` I wish you could shoot , too ; you use to beat all the girl , and I be proud of you , '' answer Thorny , with the air of a fond elder brother ; though , at the time he allude to , he be about twelve , and hardly up to his sister 's shoulder .
`` Thank you .
I shall be happy to give my place to Bab and Betty if you will make them some bow and arrow ; they could not use those long one . ''
The young gentleman do not take the hint as quickly a Miss Celia hop they would ; in fact , both look rather blank at the suggestion , a boy generally do when it be propose that girl -- especially small one -- shall join in any game they be play .
`` P ` r ` aps it would be too much trouble , '' begin Betty , in her winning little voice .
`` I can make my own , '' declare Bab , with an independent toss of the head .
`` Not a bit ; I 'll make you the jolly small bow that ever be , Belinda , '' Thorny hasten to say , soften by the appeal glance of the little maid .
`` You can use mine , Bab ; you 've get such a strong fist , I guess you could pull it , '' add Ben , remember that it would not be amiss to have a comrade who shoot bad than he do , for he felt very inferior to Thorny in many way , and , be use to praise , have miss it very much since he retire to private life .
`` I will be umpire , and brighten up the silver arrow I sometimes pin my hair with , for a prize , unless we can find something well , '' propose Miss Celia , glad to see that question settle , and every prospect of the new play be a pleasant amusement for the hot weather .
It be astonish how soon archery become the fashion in that town , for the boy discuss it enthusiastically all that even , form the `` William Tell Club '' next day , with Bab and Betty a honorary member , and , before the week be out , nearly every lad be see , like young Norval , `` With bend bow and quiver full of arrow , '' shoot away , with a charm disregard of the safety of their fellow citizen .
Banished by the authority to secluded spot , the member of the club set up their target and practise indefatigably , especially Ben , who soon discover that his early gymnastics have give him a sinewy arm and a true eye ; and , take Sanch into partnership a picker-up , he get more shot out of an hour than those who have to run to and fro .
Thorny easily recover much of his former skill , but his strength have not fully return , and he soon grow tire .
Bab , on the contrary , throw herself into the contest heart and soul , and tug away at the new bow Miss Celia give her , for Ben 's be too heavy .
No other girl be admit , so the outsider get up a club of their own , and call it `` The Victoria , '' the name be suggest by the magazine article , which go the round a a general guide and reference book .
Bab and Betty belong to this club and duly report the doings of the boy , with whom they have a right to shoot if they choose , but soon waive the right , plainly see that their absence would be regard in the light of a favor .
The archery fever rag as fiercely a the base-ball epidemic have do before it , and not only do the magazine circulate freely , but Miss Edgeworth 's story , which be eagerly read , and so much admire that the girl at once mount green ribbon , and the boy keep yard of whip-cord in their pocket like the provident Benjamin of the tale .
Every one enjoy the new play very much , and something grow out of it which be a lasting pleasure to many , long after the bow and arrow be forget .
Seeing how glad the child be to get a new story , Miss Celia be move to send a box of book -- old and new -- to the town library , which be but scantily supply , a country library be apt to be .
This donation produce a good effect ; for other people hunt up all the volume they could spare for the same purpose , and the dusty shelf in the little room behind the post-office fill up amazingly .
Coming in vacation time they be hail with delight , and ancient book of travel , as well a modern tale , be feast upon by happy young folk , with plenty of time to enjoy them in peace .
The success of her first attempt at be a public benefactor please Miss Celia very much , and suggest other way in which she might serve the quiet town , where she seem to feel that work be wait for her to do .
She say little to any one but the friend over the sea , yet various plan be make then that blossom beautifully by-and-by .
CHAPTER XIX SPEAKING PIECES The first of September come all too soon , and school begin .
Among the boy and girl who go troop up to the `` East Corner knowledge-box , '' a they call it , be our friend Ben , with a pile of neat book under his arm .
He felt very strange , and decidedly shy ; but put on a bold face , and let nobody guess that , though nearly thirteen , he have never be to school before .
Miss Celia have tell his story to Teacher , and she , be a kind little woman , with young brother of her own , make thing a easy for him a she could .
In reading and write he do very well , and proudly take his place among lad of his own age ; but when it come to arithmetic and geography , he have to go down a long way , and begin almost at the beginning , in spite of Thorny 's effort to `` tool him along fast . ''
It mortify him sadly , but there be no help for it ; and in some of the class he have dear little Betty to console with him when he fail , and smile contentedly when he get above her , a he soon begin to do , -- for she be not a quick child , and plod through First Parts long after sister Bab be flourish away among girl much old than herself .
Fortunately , Ben be a short boy and a clever one , so he do not look out of place among the ten and eleven year olders , and fell upon his lesson with the same resolution with which he use to take a new leap , or practise patiently till he could touch his heel with his head .
That sort of exercise have give him a strong , elastic little body ; this kind be to train his mind , and make it faculty a useful , quick and sure , a the obedient muscle , nerve and eye , which keep him safe where others would have break their neck .
He know this , and find much consolation in the fact that , though mental arithmetic be a hopeless task , he could turn a dozen somersault , and come up as steady a a judge .
When the boy laugh at him for say that China be in Africa , he rout them entirely by his superior knowledge of the animal belong to that wild country ; and when `` First class in read '' be call , he march up with the proud consciousness that the short boy in it do good than tall Moses Towne or fat Sam Kitteridge .
Teacher praise him all she honestly could , and correct his many blunder so quietly that he soon cease to be a deep , distressful red during recitation , and tug away so manfully that no one could help respect him for his effort , and try to make light of his failure .
So the first hard week go by , and though the boy 's heart have sink many a time at the prospect of a protracted wrestle with his own ignorance , he make up his mind to win , and go at it again on the Monday with fresh zeal , all the good and braver for a good , cheery talk with Miss Celia in the Sunday evening twilight .
He do not tell her one of his great trial , however , because he think she could not help him there .
Some of the child rather look down upon him , call him `` tramp '' and `` beggar , '' twit him with have be a circus boy , and live in a tent like a gypsy .
They do not mean to be cruel , but do it for the sake of teasing , never stop to think how much such sport can make a fellow-creature suffer .
Being a plucky fellow , Ben pretend not to mind ; but he do feel it keenly , because he want to start afresh , and be like other boy .
He be not ashamed of the old life ; but , find those around him disapprove of it , he be glad to let it be forget , even by himself ; for his late recollection be not happy one , and present comfort make past hardship seem hard than before .
He say nothing of this to Miss Celia ; but she find it out , and like him all the good for keep some of his small worry to himself .
Bab and Betty come over Monday afternoon full of indignation at some boyish insult Sam have put upon Ben ; and , find them too full of it to enjoy the reading , Miss Celia ask what the matter be .
Then both little girl burst out in a rapid succession of broken exclamation , which do not give a very clear idea of the difficulty , -- `` Sam do n't like it because Ben jump farther than he do -- '' `` And he say Ben ought to be in the poor-house . ''
`` And Ben say he ought to be in it pigpen . ''
`` So he have !
-- such a greedy thing , bring lovely big apple , and not give any one a single bite ! ''
`` Then he be mad , and we all laugh ; and he say , ` Want to fight ? '
`` And Ben say , ` No , thanky , not much fun in pound a feather-bed . ' ''
`` Oh , he be awfully mad then , and chase Ben up the big maple . ''
`` He 's there now , for Sam wo n't let him come down till he take it all back . ''
`` Ben wo n't ; and I do believe he 'll have to stay up all night , '' say Betty , distressfully .
`` He wo n't care , and we 'll have fun fire up his supper .
Nut cake and cheese will go splendidly ; and may be bake pear would n't get smash , he 's such a good catch , '' add Bab , decidedly relish the prospect .
`` If he do not come by tea-time , we will go and look after him .
It seem to me I have hear something about Sam 's trouble him before , have n't I ? ''
ask Miss Celia , ready to defend her protege against all unfair persecution .
`` Yes , 'm , Sam and Mose be always plague Ben .
They be big boy , and we ca n't make them stop .
I wo n't let the girl do it , and the little boy do n't dare to , since Teacher speak to them . ''
answer Bab .
`` Why do not Teacher speak to the big one ?
`` Ben wo n't tell of them , or let u .
He say he 'll fight his own battle , and hat tell-tales .
I guess he wo n't like to have u tell you , but I do n't care , for it be too bad ! ''
and Betty look ready to cry over her friend 's tribulation .
`` I 'm glad you do , for I will attend to it , and stop this sort of thing , '' say Miss Celia , after the child have tell some of the tormenting speech which have try poor Ben .
Just then Thorny appear , look much amuse , and the little girl both call out in a breath , `` Did you see Ben and get him down ? ''
`` He get himself down in the neat way you can imagine ; '' and Thorny laugh at the recollection .
`` Where be Sam ? ''
ask Bab .
`` Staring up at the sky to see where Ben have fly to . ''
`` Oh , tell about it ! ''
beg Betty .
`` Well , I come along and find Ben treed , and Sam stone him .
I stop that at once , and tell the ` fat boy ' to be off .
He say he would n't till Ben beg his pardon ; and Ben say he would n't do it , if he stay up for a week .
I be just prepare to give that rascal a scientific thrashing , when a load of hay come along , and Ben drop on to it so quietly that Sam , who be try to bully me , never saw him go .
It tickle me so , I tell Sam I guess I 'd let him off that time , and walk away , leave him to hunt for Ben , and wonder where the dickens he have vanish to . ''
The idea of Sam 's bewilderment amuse the others as much a Thorny , and they all have a good laugh over it before Miss Celia ask , -- `` Where have Ben go now ? ''
`` Oh , he 'll take a little ride , and then slip down and race home full of the fun of it .
But I 've get to settle Sam .
I wo n't have our Ben hector by any one -- '' `` But yourself , '' put in his sister , with a sly smile , for Thorny be rather domineer at time .
`` He do n't mind my poke him up now and then , it 's good for him ; and I always take his part against other people .
Sam be a bully , and so be Mose ; and I 'll thrash them both if they do n't stop . ''
Anxious to curb her brother 's pugnacious propensity , Miss Celia propose milder measure , promise to speak to the boy herself if there be any more trouble .
`` I have be think that we should have some sort of merry-making for Ben on his birthday .
My plan be a very simple one ; but I will enlarge it , and have all the young folk come , and Ben shall be king of the fun .
he need encouragement in well-doing , for he do try ; and now the first hard part be nearly over , I be sure he will get on bravely .
If we treat him with respect , and show our regard for him , others will follow our example ; and that will be good than fight about it . ''
`` So it will !
What shall we do to make our party tip-top ? ''
ask Thorny , fall into the trap at once ; for he dearly love to get up theatrical , and have not have any for a long time .
`` We will plan something splendid , a ` grand combination , ' a you use to call your droll mixture of tragedy , comedy , melodrama and farce , '' answer his sister , with her head already full of lively plot .
`` We 'll startle the native .
I do n't believe they ever saw a play in all their life , hey , Bab ? ''
`` I 've see a circus . ''
`` We dress up and do ` Babes in the Wood , ' '' add Betty , with dignity .
`` Pho !
that 's nothing .
I 'll show you act that will make your hair stand on end , and you shall act too .
Bab will be capital for the naughty girl , '' begin Thorny , excite by the prospect of produce a sensation on the board , and always ready to tease the girl .
Before Betty could protest that she do not want her hair to stand up , or Bab could indignantly decline the role offer her , a shrill whistle be hear , and Miss Celia whisper , with a warning look , -- `` Hush !
Ben be come , and he must not know any thing about this yet . ''
The next day be Wednesday , and in the afternoon Miss Celia go to hear the child `` speak piece , '' though it be very seldom that any of the busy matron and elder sister find time or inclination for these display of youthful oratory .
Miss Celia and Mrs. Moss be all the audience on this occasion , but Teacher be both pleased and proud to see them , and a general rustle go through the school a they come in , all the girl turn from the visitor to nod at Bab and Betty , who smile all over their round face to see `` Ma '' sit up '' ` side of Teacher , '' and the boy grin at Ben , whose heart begin to beat fast at the thought of his dear mistress come so far to hear him say his piece .
Thorny have recommend Marco Bozzaris , but Ben prefer John Gilpin , and run the famous race with much spirit , make excellent time in some part and have to be spur a little in others , but come out all right , though quite breathless at the end , sit down amid great applause , some of which , curiously enough , seem to come from outside ; which in fact it do , for Thorny be bind to hear but would not come in , l his presence should abash one orator at least .
Other piece follow , all more or less patriotic and warlike , among the boy ; sentimental among the girl .
Sam break down in his attempt to give one of Webster 's great speech , Little Cy Fay boldly attack `` Again to the battle , Achaians ! ''
and shriek his way through it in a shrill , small voice , bound to do honor to the old brother who have train him even if he break a vessel in the attempt .
Billy choose a well-worn piece , but give it a new interest by his style of delivery ; for his gesture be so spasmodic he look a if go into a fit , and he do such astonishing thing with his voice that one never know whether a howl or a growl would come next .
When `` The wood against a stormy sky Their giant branch toss ; '' Billy 's arm go round like the sail of a windmill ; the `` hymn of lofty cheer '' not only `` shake the depth of the desert gloom , '' but the small child on their little bench , and the school-house literally ring `` to the anthem of the free ! ''
When `` the ocean eagle soar , '' Billy appear to be go bodily up , and the `` pine of the forest roar '' a if they have take lesson of Van Amburgh 's big lion .
`` Woman 's fearless eye '' be express by a wild glare ; `` manhood 's brow , severely high , '' by a sudden clutch at the reddish lock fall over the orator 's hot forehead , and a sounding thump on his blue check bosom tell where `` the fiery heart of youth '' be locate .
`` What seek they thus far ? ''
he ask , in such a natural and inquire tone , with his eye fix on Mamie Peters , that the startled innocent reply , `` Dunno , '' which cause the speaker to close in haste , devoutly point a stubby finger upward at the last line .
This be consider the gem of the collection , and Billy take his seat proudly conscious that his native town boast an orator who , in time , would utterly eclipse Edward Everett and Wendell Phillips .
Sally Folsom lead off with `` The Coral Grove , '' chosen for the express purpose of make her friend Almira Mullet start and blush , when she recite the second line of that please poem , `` Where the purple mullet and gold-fish rove . ''
One of the old girl give Wordsworth 's `` Lost Love '' in a pensive tone , clasp her hand and bring out the `` O '' a if a sudden twinge of toothache seize her when she end .
`` But she be in her grave , and O , the difference to me ! ''
Bab always choose a funny piece , and on this afternoon set them all laughing by the spirit with which she speak the droll poem , `` Pussy 's Class , '' which some of my young reader may have read .
The `` meou '' and the `` sptzz '' be capital , and when the `` fond mamma rub her nose , '' the child shout , for Miss Bab make a paw of her hand and end with an impromptu purr , which be consider the best imitation ever present to an appreciative public .
Betty bashfully murmurred `` Little White Lily , '' sway to and fro as regularly a if in no other way could the rhyme be grind out of her memory .
`` That be all , I believe .
If either of the lady would like to say a few word to the child , I should be please to have them , '' say Teacher , politely , pause before she dismiss school with a song .
`` Please , 'm .
I 'd like to speak my piece , '' answer Miss Celia , obey a sudden impulse ; and , step forward with her hat in her hand , she make a pretty courtesy before she recite Mary Howitt 's sweet little ballad , `` Mabel on Midsummer Day . ''
She look so young and merry , and use such simple but expressive gesture , and speak in such a clear , soft voice that the child sit a if spell-bound , learn several lesson from this new teacher , whose performance charm them from begin to end , and leave a moral which all could understand and carry away in that last verse , -- '' 'T be good to make all duty sweet , To be alert and kind ; 'T be good , like Littie Mabel , To have a willing mind . ''
Of course there be an enthusiastic clapping when Miss Celia sit down , but even while hand applaud , conscience prick , and undone task , complain word and sour face seem to rise up reproachfully before many of the child , as well a their own fault of elocution .
`` Now we will sing , '' say Teacher , and a great clearing of throat ensue , but before a note could be utter , the half-open door swung wide , and Sancho , with Ben 's hat on , walk in upon his hind-legs , and stand with his paw meekly fold , while a voice from the entry sing rapidly , -- `` Benny have a little dog , His fleece be white a snow , And everywhere that Benny go , The dog be sure to go .
He go into the School one day , which be against the rule ; It make the child laugh and play To see a dog -- '' Mischievous Thorny get no further , for a general explosion of laughter drown the last word , and Ben 's command `` Out , you rascal ! ''
sent Sanch to the right-about in double-quick time .
Miss Celia try to apologize for her bad brother , and Teacher try to assure her that it do n't matter in the least , a this be always a merry time , and Mrs. Moss vainly shake her finger at her naughty daughter ; they as well a the others would have their laugh out , and only partially sober down when the Bell rang for `` Attention . ''
They think they be to be dismiss , and repress their giggle as well a they could in order to get a good start for a vociferous roar when they get out .
But , to their great surprise , the pretty lady stand up again and say , in her friendly way , -- `` I just want to thank you for this pleasant little exhibition , and ask leave to come again .
I also wish to invite you all to my boy 's birthday party on Saturday week .
The archery meeting be to be in the afternoon , and both club will be there , I believe .
In the evening we be go to have some fun , when we can laugh as much a we please without break any of the rule .
In Ben 's name I invite you , and hope you will all come , for we mean to make this the happy birthday he ever have . ''
There be twenty pupil in the room , but the eighty hand and foot make such a racket at this announcement that an outsider would have think a hundred child , at least , must have be at it .
Miss Celia be a general favorite because she nod to all the girl , call the boy by their last name , even address some of the large a `` Mr. '' which win their heart at once , so that if she have invite them all to come and be whip they would have go sure that it be some delightful joke .
With what eagerness they accept the present invitation one can easily imagine , though they never guess why she give it in that way , and Ben 's face be a sight to see , he be so pleased and proud at the honor do him that he do not know where to look , and be glad to rush out with the other boy and vent his emotion in whoop of delight .
He know that some little plot be be concoct for his birthday , but never dream of any thing so grand a ask the whole school , Teacher and all .
The effect of the invitation be see with comical rapidity , for the boy become overpower in their friendly attention to Ben .
Even Sam , fear he might be leave out , promptly offer the peaceful olive-branch in the shape of a big apple , warm from his pocket , and Mose propose a trade of jack-knives which would be greatly to Ben 's advantage .
But Thorny make the noble sacrifice of all , for he say to his sister , a they walk home together , -- `` I 'm not go to try for the prize at all .
I shoot so much good than the rest , have have more practice , you know , that it be hardly fair .
Ben and Billy be next best , and about even , for Ben 's strong wrist make up for Billy 's true eye , and both want to win .
If I be out of the way Ben stand a good chance , for the other fellow do n't amount to much . ''
`` Bab do ; she shoot nearly as well a Ben , and want to win even more than he or Billy .
She must have her chance at any rate . ''
`` So she may , but she wo n't do any thing ; girl ca n't , though it 's good exercise and please them to try . ''
`` If I have full use of both my arm I 'd show you that girl can do a great deal when they like .
Do n't be too lofty , young man , for you may have to come down , '' laugh Miss Celia , amuse by his air .
`` No fear , '' and Thorny calmly depart to set his target for Ben 's practice .
`` We shall see , '' and from that moment Miss Celia make Bab her especial pupil , feel that a little lesson would be good for Mr . Thorny , who rather lord it over the other young people .
There be a spice of mischief in it , for Miss Celia be very young at heart , in spite of her twenty-four year , and she be bind to see that her side have a fair chance , believe that girl can do whatever they be willing to strive patiently and wisely for .
So she keep Bab at work early and late , give her all the hint and help she could with only one efficient hand , and Bab be delight to think she do well enough to shoot with the club .
Her arm ached and her finger grow hard with twang the bow , but she be indefatigable , and be a strong , tall child of her age , with a great love of all athletic sport , she get on fast and well , soon learn to send arrow after arrow with ever increase accuracy nearer and nearer to the bull 's - eye .
The boy take very little notice of her , be much absorb in their own affair , but Betty do for Bab what Sancho do for Ben , and trot after arrow till her short leg be sadly tire , though her patience never give out .
She be so sure Bab would win that she care nothing about her own success , practise little and seldom hit any thing when she try .
CHAPTER XX BEN 'S BIRTHDAY A superb display of flag flap gayly in the breeze on the September morning when Ben proudly enter his teen .
An irruption of bunting seem to have break out all over the old house , for banner of every shape and size , color and design , fly from chimney-top to gable , porch and gate-way , make the quiet place look as lively a a circus tent , which be just what Ben most desired and delighted in .
The boy have be up very early to prepare the show , and when it be ready enjoy it hugely , for the fresh wind make the pennon cut strange caper .
The winged lion of Venice look a if try to fly away home ; the Chinese dragon appear to brandish his forked tail a he claw at the Burmese peacock ; the double-headed eagle of Russia peck at the Turkish crescent with one beak , while the other seem to be scream to the English royal beast , `` Come on and lend a paw . ''
In the hurry of hoist the Siamese elephant get turned upside down , and now danced gayly on his head , with the star and stripe wave proudly over him .
A green flag with a yellow harp and sprig of shamrock hung in sight of the kitchen window , and Katy , the cook , get breakfast to the tune of `` St. Patrick 's day in the morning . ''
Sancho 's kennel be half hidden under a rustling paper imitation of the gorgeous Spanish banner , and the scarlet sun-and-moon flag of Arabia snap and flaunt from the pole over the coach-house , a a delicate compliment to Lita , Arabian horse be consider the fine in the world .
The little girl come out to see , and declare it be the lovely sight they ever behold , while Thorny play `` Hail Columbia '' on his fife , and Ben , mount the gate-post , crow long and loud like a happy cockerel who have just reach his majority .
He have be surprise and delight with the gift he find in his room on awake and guess why Miss Celia and Thorny give him such pretty thing , for among them be a match-box make like a mouse-trap .
The doggy button and the horsey whip be treasure , indeed , for Miss Celia have not give them when they first plan to do so , because Sancho 's return seem to be joy and reward enough for that occasion .
But he do not forget to thank Mrs. Moss for the cake she send him , nor the girl for the red mitten which they have secretly and painfully knit .
Bab 's be long and thin , with a very pointed thumb , Betty 's short and wide , with a stubby thumb , and all their mother 's pulling and pressing could not make them look alike , to the great affliction of the little knitter .
Ben , however , assure them that he rather prefer odd one , a then he could always tell which be right and which leave .
He put them on immediately and go about crack the new whip with an expression of content which be droll to see , while the child follow after , full of admiration for the hero of the day .
They be very busy all the morning preparing for the festivity to come , and as soon a dinner be over every one scramble into his or her best clothes as fast a possible , because , although invite to come at two , impatient boy and girl be see hover about the avenue as early a one .
The first to arrive , however , be an uninvited guest , for just a Bab and Betty sit down on the porch step , in their stiff pink calico frock and white ruffled apron , to repose a moment before the party come in , a rustling be hear among the lilac , and out step Alfred Tennyson Barlow , look like a small Robin Hood , in a green blouse with a silver buckle on his broad belt , a feather in his little cap and a bow in his hand .
`` I have come to shoot .
I hear about it .
My papa tell me what arch meant .
Will there be any little cake ?
I like them . ''
With these open remark the poet take a seat and calmly await a response .
The young lady , I regret to say , giggle , then remember their manner , hasten to inform him that there would be heap of cake , also that Miss Celia would not mind his come without an invitation , they be quite sure .
`` She ask me to come that day .
I have be very busy .
I have measles .
Do you have them here ? ''
ask the guest , a if anxious to compare note on the sad subject .
`` We have ours ever so long ago .
What have you be do besides have measles ? ''
say Betty , show a polite interest .
`` I have a fight with a bumble-bee . ''
`` Who beat ? ''
demand Bab .
`` I do .
I run away and he could n't catch me . ''
`` Can you shoot nicely ? ''
`` I hit a cow .
She do not mind at all .
I guess she think it be a fly . ''
`` Did your mother know you be come ? ''
ask Bab , feel an interest in runaway .
`` No ; she be go to drive , so I could not ask her . ''
`` It be very wrong to disobey .
My Sunday-school book say that child who be naughty that way never go to heaven , '' observe virtuous Betty , in a warning tone .
`` I do not wish to go , '' be the startling reply .
`` Why not ? ''
ask Betty , severely .
`` They do n't have any dirt there .
My mamma say so .
I be fond of dirt .
I shall stay here where there be plenty of it , '' and the candid youth begin to grub in the mould with the satisfaction of a genuine boy .
`` I be afraid you 're a very bad child . ''
`` Oh yes , I be .
My papa often say so and he know all about it , '' reply Alfred with an involuntary wriggle suggestive of painful memory .
Then , a if anxious to change the conversation from it somewhat personal channel , he ask , point to a row of grin head above the wall , `` Do you shoot at those ? ''
Bab and Betty look up quickly and recognize the familiar face of their friend peer down at them , like a choice collection of trophy or target .
`` I should think you 'd be ashamed to peek before the party be ready ! ''
cry Bab , frown darkly upon the merry young lady .
`` Miss Celia tell u to come before two , and be ready to receive folk , if she be n't down , '' add Betty , importantly .
`` It be strike two now .
Come along , girl ; '' and over scramble Sally Folsom , follow by three or four kindred spirit , just a their hostess appear .
`` You look like Amazons storm a fort , '' she say , a the girl cattle up , each carry her bow and arrow , while green ribbon fly in every direction .
`` How do you do , sir ?
I have be hop you would call again , '' add Miss Celia , shake hand with the pretty boy , who regard with benign interest the giver of little cake .
Here a rush of boy take place , and far remark be cut short , for every one be in a hurry to begin .
So the procession be form at once , Miss Celia take the lead , escort by Ben in the post of honor , while the boy and girl pair off behind , arm in arm , bow on Shoulder , in martial array .
Thorny and Billy be the band , and march before , fifing and drum `` Yankee Doodle '' with a vigor which keep foot move briskly , make eye sparkle , and young heart dance under the gay gown and summer jacket .
The interesting stranger be elect to bear the prize , lay out on a red pin-cushion ; and do so with great dignity , a he go beside the standard bearer , Cy Fay , who bore Ben 's choice flag , snow-white , with a green wreath surround a paint bow and arrow , and with the letter W. T. C. do in red below .
Such a merry march all about the place , out at the Lodge gate , up and down the avenue , along the winding path , till they halt in the orchard , where the target stand , and seat be place for the archer while they wait for their turn .
Various rule and regulation be discuss , and then the fun begin .
Miss Celia have insist that the girl should be invite to shoot with the boy ; and the lad consent without much concern , whisper to one another with condescend shrug , `` Let 'em try , if they like ; they ca n't do any thing . ''
There be various trial of skill before the great match come off , and in these trial the young gentleman discover that two at least of the girl could do something ; for Bab and Sally shoot good than many of the boy , and be well reward for their exertion by , the change which take place in the face and conversation of their mate .
`` Why , Bab , you do as well a if I 'd teach you myself , '' say Thorny , much surprise and not altogether please at the little girl 's skill .
`` A lady taught me ; and I mean to beat every one of you , '' answer Bab , saucily , while her sparkling eye turn to Miss Celia with a mischievous twinkle in them .
`` Not a bit of it , '' declare Thorny , stoutly ; but he go to Ben and whisper , `` Do your best , old fellow , for sister have teach Bab all the scientific point , and the little rascal be ahead of Billy . ''
`` She wo n't get ahead of me , '' say Ben , pick out his best arrow , and try the string of his bow with a confident air which re-assured Thorny , who find it impossible to believe that a girl ever could , would , or should excel a boy in any thing he care to try .
It really do look a if Bab would beat when the match for the prize come off ; and the child get more and more excited a the six who be to try for it take turn at the bull 's - eye .
Thorny be umpire , and keep account of each shot , for the arrow which go nearest the middle would win .
Each have three shot ; and very soon the lookers-on saw that Ben and Bab be the best marksman , and one of them would surely get the silver arrow .
Sam , who be too lazy to practise , soon give up the contest , say , a Thorny do , `` It would n't be fair for such a big fellow to try with the little chap , '' which make a laugh , a his want of skill be painfully evident .
But Mose go at it gallantly ; and , if his eye have be as true a his arm be strong , the `` little chap '' would have tremble .
But his shot be none of them as near a Billy 's ; and he retire after the third failure , declare that it be impossible to shoot against the wind , though scarcely a breath be stir .
Sally Folsom be bind to beat Bab , and twang away in great style ; all in vain , however , a with tall Maria Newcomb , the third girl who attempt the trial .
Being a little near-sighted , she have borrow her sister 's eye-glasses , and thereby lessen her chance of success ; for the pinch on her nose distract her attention , and not one of her arrow go beyond the second ring to her great disappointment .
Billy do very well , but get nervous when his last shot come , and just miss the bull 's - eye by be in a hurry .
Bab and Ben each have one turn more ; and , a they be about even , that last arrow would decide the victory .
Both have send a shot into the bull 's - eye , but neither be exactly in the middle ; so there be room to do good , even , and the child crowd round , cry eagerly , `` Now , Ben ! ''
`` Now , Bab ! ''
`` Hit her up , Ben ! ''
`` Beat him , Bab ! ''
while Thorny look as anxious a if the fate of the country depend on the success of his man .
Bab 's turn come first ; and , a Miss Celia examine her bow to see that all be right , the little girl say , With her eye on her rival 's excited face , -- `` I want to beat , but Ben will feel so bad , I ` most hope I sha 'n ' t. '' `` Losing a prize sometimes make one happy than gain it .
You have prove that you could do good than most of them ; so , if you do not beat , you may still foot proud , '' answer Miss Celia , give back the bow with a smile that say more than her word .
It seem to give Bab a new idea , for in a minute all sort of recollection , wish , and plan rush through her lively little mind , and she follow a sudden generous impulse as blindly a she often do a wilful one .
`` I guess he 'll beat , '' she say , softly , with a quick sparkle of the eye , a she step to her place and fire without take her usual careful aim .
Her shot strike almost a near the centre on the right a her last one have hit on the left ; and there be a shout of delight from the girl a Thorny announce it before he hurry back to Ben , whisper anxiously , -- `` Steady , old Man , steady ; you must beat that , or we shall never hear the last of it . ''
Ben do not say , `` She wo n't get ahead of me , '' a he have say at the first ; he set his teeth , throw off his hat , and , knit his brow with a resolute expression , prepare to take steady aim , though his heart beat fast and his thumb tremble a he press it on the bowstring .
`` I hope you 'll beat , I truly do , '' say Bab , at his elbow ; and , a if the breath that frame the generous wish help it on it way , the arrow fly straight to the bull 's - eye , hit , apparently , the very spot where Bab 's best shot have leave a hole .
`` A tie !
a tie ! ''
cry the girl , a a general rush take place toward the target .
`` No , Ben 's be nearest .
Ben 's beat ! ''
Hooray shout the boy , throw up their hat .
There be only a hair 's - breadth difference , and Bab could honestly have dispute the decision ; but she do not , though for an instant she could not help wish that the cry have be `` Bab 's beat !
Hurrah ! ''
it sound so pleasant .
Then she saw Ben 's beam face , Thorny 's intense relief , and catch the look Miss Celia send her over the head of the boy , and decide , with a sudden warm glow all over her little face , that lose a prize do sometimes make one happy than win it .
Up go her best hat , and she burst out in a shrill , `` Rah , rah , rah ! ''
that sound very funny come all alone after the general clamor have subside .
`` Good for you , Bab !
you be an honor to the club , and I 'm proud of you '' , say Prince Thorny , with a hearty handshake ; for , a his man have win , he could afford to praise the rival who have put him on his mettle , though she be a girl .
Bab be much uplift by the royal commendation , but a few minute later felt pleased as well a proud when Ben , have receive the prize , come to her , a she stand behind a tree suck her blistered thumb , while Betty braid up her dishevelled lock .
`` I think it would be fair to call it a tie , Bab , for it really be , and I want you to wear this .
I want the fun of beating , but I do n't care a bit for this girl 's thing and I 'd rather see it on you . ''
As he speak , Ben offer the rosette of green ribbon which hold the silver arrow , and Bab 's eye brighten a they fell upon the pretty ornament , for to her `` the girl 's thing '' be almost as good a the victory .
`` Oh no ; you must wear it to show who win .
Miss Celia would n't like it .
I do n't mind not get it ; I do good than all the rest , and I guess I should n't like to beat you , '' answer Bab , unconsciously put into childish word the sweet generosity which make so many sister glad to see their brother carry off the prize of life , while they be content to know that they have earn them and can do without the praise .
But if Bab be generous , Ben be just ; and though he could not explain the feeling , would not consent to take all the glory without give his little friend a share .
`` You must wear it ; I shall feel real mean if you do n't .
You work hard than I do , and it be only luck my get this .
Do , Bab , to please me , '' he persist , awkwardly try to fasten the ornament in the middle of Bab 's ' white apron .
`` Then I will .
Now do you forgive me for lose Sancho ? ''
ask Bab , with a wistful look which make Ben say , heartily , -- `` I do that when he come home . ''
`` And you do n't think I 'm horrid ? ''
`` Not a bit of it ; you be first-rate , and I 'll stand by you like a man , for you be ` most as good a a boy ! ''
cry Ben , anxious to deal handsomely with his feminine rival , whose skill have raise her immensely in his opinion .
Feeling that he could not improve that last compliment , Bab be fully satisfy , and let him leave the prize upon her breast , conscious that she have some claim to it .
`` That be where it should be , and Ben be a true knight , win the prize that he may give it to his lady , while he be content with the victory , '' say Miss Celia , laughingly , to Teacher , a the child run off to join in the riotous game which soon make the orchard ring .
`` He learn that at the circus ` tunnyments , ' a he call them .
He be a nice boy , and I be much interested in him ; for he have the two thing that do most toward make a man , patience and courage , '' answer Teacher , also a she watch the young knight play and the honored lady tear about in a game of tag .
`` Bab be a nice child , too , '' say Miss Celia ; `` she be as quick a a flash to catch an idea and carry it out , though very often the idea be wild one .
She could have win just now , I fancy , if she have try , but take the notion into her head that it be nobler to let Ben win , and so atone for the trouble she give him in lose the dog .
I saw a very sweet look on her face just now , and be sure that Ben will never know why he beat . ''
`` She do such thing at school sometimes , and I ca n't bear to spoil her little atonement , though they be not always need or very wise , '' answer Teacher .
`` Not long ago I find that she have be give her lunch day after day to a poor child who seldom have any , and when I ask her why , she say , with tear , ' I use to laugh at Abby , because she have only crusty , dry bread , and so she would n't bring any .
I ought to give her mine and be hungry , it be so mean to make fun of her poorness . ''
`` Did you stop the sacrifice ? ''
`` No ; I let Bab ` go half , ' and add an extra bit to my own lunch , so I could make my contribution likewise . ''
`` Come and tell me about Abby .
I want to make friend with our poor people , for soon I shall have a right to help them ; '' and , put her arm in Teacher 's , Miss Celia lead her away for a quiet chat in the porch , make her guest 's visit a happy holiday by confide several plan and ask advice in the friendly way .
CHAPTER XXI CUPID 'S LAST APPEARANCE A picnic supper on the grass follow the game , and then , a twilight begin to fall , the young people be marshal to the coach-house , now transform into a rustic theatre .
One big door be open , and seat , arrange lengthwise , face the red table-cloths which form the curtain .
A row of lamp make very good foot-lights , and an invisible band perform a Wagner-like overture on comb , tin trumpet , drum , and pipe , with an accompaniment of suppressed laughter .
Many of the child have never see any thing like it , and sit star about them in mute admiration and expectancy ; but the old one criticise freely , and indulge in wild speculation a to the meaning of various convulsion of nature go on behind the curtain .
While Teacher be dress the actress for the tragedy , Miss Celia and Thorny , who be old hand at this sort of amusement , give a `` Potato '' pantomime a a side show .
Across an empty stall a green cloth be fasten , so high that the head of the operator be not see .
A little curtain fly up , disclose the front of a Chinese pagoda paint on pasteboard , with a door and window which open quite naturally .
This stand on one side , several green tree with paper lantern hang from the bough be on the other side , and the word `` Tea Garden , '' print over the top , show the nature of this charm spot .
Few of the child have ever see the immortal Punch and Judy , so this be a most agreeable novelty , and before they could make out what it mean , a voice begin to sing , so distinctly that every word be hear , -- `` In China there live a little man , His name be Chingery Wangery Chan . ''
Here the hero `` take the stage '' with great dignity , clad in a loose yellow jacket over a blue skirt , which conceal the hand that make his body .
A pointed hat adorn his head , and on remove this to bow he disclose a bald pate with a black queue in the middle , and a Chinese face nicely paint on the potato , the low part of which be hollow out to fit Thorny 's first finger , while his thumb and second finger be in the sleeve of the yellow jacket , make a lively pair of arm .
While he salute , the song go on , -- `` His leg be short , his foot be small , And this little man could not walk at all . ''
Which assertion be prove to be false by the agility with which the `` little man '' dance a jig in time to the rollick chorus , -- `` Chingery changery ri co day , Ekel tekel happy man ; Uron odesko canty oh , oh , Gallopy wallopy China go . ''
At the close of the dance and chorus , Chan retire into the tea garden , and drink so many cup of the national beverage , with such comic gesture , that the spectator be almost sorry when the opening of the opposite window draw all eye in that direction .
At the lattice appear a lovely be ; for this potato have be par , and on the white surface be paint pretty pink check , red lip , black eye , and oblique brow ; through the tuft of dark silk on the head be stuck several glitter pin , and a pink jacket shroud the plump figure of this capital little Chinese lady .
After peep coyly out , so that all could see and admire , she fell to count the money from a purse , so large her small hand could hardly hold it on the window seat .
While she do this , the song go on to explain , -- `` Miss Ki Hi be short and squat , She have money and he have not So off to her he resolve to go , And play her a tune on his little banjo . ''
During the chorus to this verse Chan be see tune his instrument in the garden , and at the end sallied gallantly forth to sing the following tender strain , -- `` Whang fun li , Tang hua ki , Hong Kong do ra me !
Ah sin lo , Pan to fo , Tsing up chin leute ! ''
Carried away by his passion , Chan drop his banjo , fell upon his knee , and , clasp his hand , bow his forehead in the dust before his idol .
But , ala !
-- `` Miss Ki Hi hear his note of love , And hold her wash-bowl up above It fell upon the little man , And this be the end of Chingery Chan , '' Indeed it be ; for , a the doll 's basin of real water be cast forth by the cruel charmer , poor Chan expire in such strong convulsion that his head roll down among the audience .
Miss Ki Hi peep to see what have become of her victim , and the shutter decapitate her likewise , to the great delight of the child , who pass around the head , pronounce a `` Potato '' pantomime `` first-rate fun . ''
Then they settle themselves for the show , have be assure by Manager Thorny that they be about to behold the most elegant and varied combination ever produce on any stage .
And when one read the following very inadequate description of the somewhat mixed entertainment , it be impossible to deny that the promise make be nobly keep .
After some delay and several crash behind the curtain , which mightily amuse the audience , the performance begin with the well-known tragedy of `` Bluebeard ; '' for Bab have set her heart upon it , and the young folk have act it so often in their play that it be very easy to get up , with a few extra touch to scenery and costume .
Thorny be superb a the tyrant with a beard of bright blue worst , a slouch hat and long feather , fur cloak , red hose , rubber boot , and a real sword which clank tragically a he walk .
He speak in such a deep voice , knit his corked eye-brows , and glare so frightfully , that it be no wonder poor Fatima quake before him a he give into her keep an immense bunch of key with one particularly big , bright one , among them .
Bab be fine to see , with Miss Celia 's blue dress sweep behind her , a white plume in her flow hair , and a real necklace with a pearl locket about her neck .
She do her part capitally , especially the shriek she give when she look into the fatal closet , the energy with which she scrub the tell-tale key , and her distracted tone when she call out : `` Sister Anne , O , sister Anne , do you see anybody come ? ''
while her enraged husband be roar : `` Will you come down , madam , or shall I come and fetch you ? ''
Betty make a captivating Anne , -- all in white muslin , and a hat full of such lovely pink rose that she could not help put up one hand to feel them a she stand on the step look out at the little window for the approach brother who make such a din that it sound like a dozen horseman instead if two .
Ben and Billy be get up regardless of expense in the way of arm ; for their belt be perfect arsenal , and their wooden sword be big enough to strike terror into any soul , though they strike no spark out of Bluebeard 's blade in the awful combat which precede the villain 's downfall and death .
The boy enjoy this part intensely , and cry of `` Go it , Ben ! ''
`` Hit him again , Billy ! ''
`` Two against one be n't fair ! ''
`` Thorny 's a match for 'em . ''
`` Now he 's down , hurray ! ''
cheer on the combatant , till , after a terrific struggle , the tyrant fell , and with convulsive twitching of the scarlet leg , slowly expire while the lady sociably faint in each other 's arm , and the brother wave their sword and shake hand over the corpse of their enemy .
This piece be rapturously applaud , and all the performer have to appear and bow their thanks , lead by the defunct Bluebeard , who mildly warn the excited audience that if they `` do n't look out the seat would break down , and then there 'd be a nice mess . ''
Calmed by this fear they compose themselves , and wait with ardor for the next play , which promise to be a lively one , judge from the shriek of laughter which come from behind the curtain .
`` Sanch 's go to be in it , I know ; for I hear Ben say , ` Hold him still ; he wo n't bite , ' '' whisper Sam , long to `` jounce up and down , so great be his satisfaction at the prospect , for the dog be consider the star of the company .
`` I hope Bab will do something else , she be so funny .
Was n't her dress elegant ? ''
say Sally Folsum , burn to wear a long silk gown and a feather in her hair .
`` I like Betty best , she 's so cunning , and she peek out of the window just a if she really saw somebody come , '' answer Liddy Peckham , privately resolve to tease mother for some pink roses before another Sunday come .
Up go the curtain at last , and a voice announce `` A Tragedy in Three Tableaux . ''
`` There 's Betty ! ''
be the general exclamation , a the audience recognize a familiar face under the little red hood wear by the child who stand receive a basket from Teacher , who make a nice mother with her finger up , a if tell the small messenger not to loiter by the way .
`` I know what that be ! ''
cry Sally ; `` it 's ` Mabel on Midsummer Day . '
The piece Miss Celia speak ; do n't you know ? ''
`` There be n't any sick baby , and Mabel have a ` kerchief pin about her head . '
I say it 's Red Riding Hood , '' answer Liddy , who have begin to learn Mary Howitt 's pretty poem for her next piece , and know all about it .
The question be settle by the appearance of the wolf in the second scene , and such a wolf !
On few amateur stage do we find so natural an actor for that part , or so good a costume , for Sanch be irresistibly droll in the gray wolf-skin which usually lay beside Miss Celia 's bed , now fit over his back and fasten neatly down underneath , with his own face peep out at one end , and the handsome tail bobbing gayly at the other .
What a comfort that tail be to Sancho , none but a bereaved bow-wow could ever tell .
It reconcile him to his distasteful part at once , it make rehearsal a joy , and even before the public he could not resist turn to catch a glimpse of the noble appendage , while his own brief member wag with the proud consciousness that though the tail do not match the head , it be long enough to be see of all men and dog .
That be a pretty picture , for the little maid come walk in with the basket on her arm , and such an innocent face inside the bright hood that it be quite natural the gray wolf should trot up to her with deceitful friendliness , that she should pat and talk to him confidingly about the butter for grandma , and then that they should walk away together , he politely carry her basket , she with her hand on his head , little dream what evil plan be take shape inside .
The child encore that , but there be no time to repeat it , so they listen to more stifled merriment behind the red table-cloths , and wonder whether the next scene would be the wolf pop his head out of the window a Red Riding Hood knock , or the tragic end of that sweet child .
It be neither , for a nice bed have be make , and in it repose the false grandmother , with a ruffled nightcap on , a white gown , and spectacle .
Betty lay beside the wolf , star at him a if just about to say , `` Why , grandma , what great teeth you 've get ! ''
for Sancho 's mouth be half open and a red tongue hung out , a he pant with the exertion of keep still .
This tableau be so very good , and yet so funny , that the child clap and shout frantically ; this excite the dog , who give a bounce and would have leap off the bed to bark at the rioter , if Betty have not catch him by the leg , and Thorny drop the curtain just at the moment when the wicked wolf be apparently in the act of devour the poor little girl , with most effective growl .
They have to come out then , and do so , both much dishevel by the late tussle , for Sancho 's cap be all over one eye , and Betty 's hood be anywhere but on her head .
She make her courtesy prettily , however ; her fellow-actor bowed with as much dignity a a short night-gown permit , and they retire to their well-earned repose .
Then Thorny , look much excite , appear to make the following request : `` As one of the actor in the next piece be new to the business , the company must all keep as still a mouse , and not stir till I give the word .
It 's perfectly splendid !
so do n't you spoil it by make a row . ''
`` What do you suppose it be ? ''
ask every one , and listen with all their might to get a hint , if possible .
But what they hear only whet their curiosity and mystify them more and more .
Bab 's voice cry in a loud whisper , `` Is n't Ben beautiful ? ''
Then there be a thumping noise , and Miss Celia say , in an anxious tone , `` Oh , do be careful , '' while Ben laugh out a if he be too happy to care who hear him , and Thorny bawl `` Whoa ! ''
in a way which would have attract attention if Lita 's head have not pop out of her box , more than once , to survey the invader of her abode , with a much astonish expression .
`` Sounds kind of circusy , do n't it ? ''
say Sam to Billy , who have come out to receive the compliment of the company and enjoy the tableau at a safe distance .
`` You just wait till you see what 's come .
It beat any circus I ever saw , '' answer Billy , rub his hand with the air of a man who have see many instead of but one .
`` Ready !
Be quick and get out of the way when she go off ! ''
whisper Ben , but they hear him and prepare for pistol , rocket or combustible of some sort , a ship be impossible under the circumstance , and no other `` She '' occur to them .
A unanimous `` O-o-o-o ! ''
be hear when the curtain rise , but a stern `` Hush ! ''
from Thorny keep them mutely star with all their eye at the grand spectacle of the evening .
There stand Lita with a wide flat saddle on her back , a white head-stall and rein , blue rosette in her ear , and the look of a much-bewildered beast in her bright eye .
But who the gauzy , spangle , wing creature be , with a gilt crown on it head , a little bow in it hand , and one white slipper in the air , while the other seem merely to touch the saddle , no one could tell for a minute , so strange and splendid do the apparition appear .
No wonder Ben be not recognize in this brilliant disguise , which be more natural to him than Billy 's blue flannel or Thorny 's respectable garment .
He have so beg to be allow to show himself `` just once , '' a he use to be in the day when `` father '' toss him up on the bare-backed old General , for hundred to see and admire , that Miss Celia have consent , much against her will , and hastily arrange some bit of spangled tarlatan over the white cotton suit which be to simulate the regulation tights .
Her old dancing slipper fit , and gold paper do the rest , while Ben , sure of his power over Lita , promise not to break his bone , and live for day on the thought of the moment when he could show the boy that he have not boast vainly of past splendor .
Before the delighted child could get their breath , Lita give sign of her dislike to the foot-lights , and , gather up the rein that lay on her neck , Ben give the old cry , `` Houp-la ! ''
and let her go , a he have often do before , straight out of the coach-house for a gallop round the orchard .
`` Just turn about and you can see perfectly well , but stay where you be till he come back , '' command Thorny , a sign of commotion appear in the excited audience .
Round go the twenty child a if turn by one crank , and sit there they look out into the moonlight where the shining figure flash to and fro , now so near they could see the smile face under the crown , now so far away that it glitter like a fire-fly among the dusky green .
Lita enjoy that race as heartily a she have do several others of late , and caracole about a if anxious to make up for her lack of skill by speed and obedience .
How much Ben like it there be no need to tell , yet it be a proof of the good which three month of a quiet , useful life have do him , that even a he prance gayly under the bough thick with the red and yellow apple almost ready to be gather , he find this riding in the fresh air with only his mate for an audience pleasanter than the crowded tent , the tired horse , profane men , and painted woman , friendly a some of them have be to him .
After the first burst be over , he felt rather glad , on the whole , that he be go back to plain clothes , helpful school , and kindly people , who care more to have him a good boy than the most famous Cupid that ever stand on one leg with a fast horse under him .
`` You may make a much noise a you like , now ; Lita 's have her run and will be as quiet a a lamb after it .
Pull up , Ben , and come in ; sister say you 'll get cold , '' shout Thorny , a the rider come canter round after a leap over the lodge gate and back again .
So Ben pull up , and the admiring boy and girl be allow to gather about him , loud in their praise a they examine the pretty mare and the mythological character who lay easily on her back .
He look very little like the god of love now ; for he have lose one slipper and splash his white leg with dew and dust , the crown have slip down upon his neck , and the paper wing hung in an apple-tree where he have leave them a he go by .
No trouble in recognize Ben , now ; but somehow he do n't want to be see , and , instead of stay to be praise , he soon slip away , make Lita his excuse to vanish behind the curtain while the rest go into the house to have a finishing-off game of blindman 's - buff in the big kitchen .
`` Well , Ben , be you satisfy ? ''
ask Miss Celia , a she stay a moment to unpin the remains of his gauzy scarf and tunic .
`` Yes , 'm , thank you , it be tip-top . ''
`` But you look rather sober .
Are you tire , or be it because you do n't want to take these trapping off and be plain Ben again ? ''
she say , look down into his face a he lift it for her to free him from his gilded collar .
`` I want to take 'em off ; for somehow I do n't feel respectable , '' and he kick away the crown he have help to make so carefully , add with a glance that say more than his word : `` I 'd rather be ` plain Ben ' than any one else , for you like to have me . ''
`` Indeed I do ; and I 'm so glad to hear you say that , because I be afraid you 'd long to be off to the old way , and all I 've try to do would be undone .
Would you like to go back , Ben ? ''
and Miss Celia hold his chin an instant , to watch the brown face that look so honestly back at her .
`` No , I would n't -- unless -- he be there and want me . ''
The chin quiver just a bit , but the black eye be as bright a ever , and the boy 's voice so earnest , she know he speak the truth , and lay her white hand softly on his head , a she answer in the tone he love so much , because no one else have ever use it to him , -- `` Father be not there ; but I know he want you , dear , and I be sure he would rather see you in a home like this than in the place you come from .
Now go and dress ; but , tell me first , have it be a happy birthday ? ''
`` Oh , Miss Celia !
I do n't know they could be so beautiful , and this be the beautiful part of it ; I do n't know how to thank you , but I 'm go to try -- '' and , find word would n't come fast enough , Ben just put his two arm round her , quite speechless with gratitude ; then , a if ashamed of his little outburst , he kneel down in a great hurry to untie his one shoe .
But Miss Celia like his answer well than the fine speech ever make her , and go away through the moonlight , say to herself , -- `` If I can bring one lose lamb into the fold , I shall be the fitter for a shepherd 's wife , by-and-by . ''
CHAPTER XXII A BOY 'S BARGAIN It be some day before the child be tire of talk over Ben 's birthday party ; for it be a great event in their small world ; but , gradually , new pleasure come to occupy their mind , and they begin to plan the nutting frolic which always follow the early frost .
While wait for Jack to open the chestnut burr , they vary the monotony of school life by a lively scrimmage long know a `` the wood-pile fight . ''
The girl like to play in the half-empty shed , and the boy , merely for the fun of teasing , declare that they should not , so block up the doorway a fast a the girl clear it .
Seeing that the squabble be a merry one , and the exercise well for all than lounge in the sun or reading in school during recess , Teacher do not interfere , and the barrier rise and fell almost as regularly a the tide .
It would be difficult to say which side work the harder ; for the boy go before school begin to build up the barricade , and the girl stay after lesson be over to pull down the last one make in afternoon recess .
They have their play-time first ; and , while the boy wait inside , they hear the shout of the girl , the banging of the wood , and the final crash , a the well-packed pile go down .
Then , a the lassie come in , rosy , breathless , and triumphant , the lad rush out to man the breach , and labor gallantly till all be as tight a hard blow could make it .
So the battle rag , and bruise knuckle , splinter in finger , torn clothes , and rub shoe , be the only wound receive , while a great deal of fun be have out of the maltreated log , and a lasting peace secure between two of the boy .
When the party be safely over , Sam begin to fall into his old way of torment Ben by call names , a it cost no exertion to invent try speech , and slyly utter them when most likely to annoy .
Ben bore it as well a he could ; but fortune favor him at last , a it usually do the patient , and he be able to make his own term with his tormentor .
When the girl demolish the wood-pile , they perform a jubilee chorus on comb , and tin kettle , play like tambourine ; the boy celebrate their victory with shrill whistle , and a drum accompaniment with fist on the shed wall .
Billy bring his drum , and this be such an addition that Sam hunt up an old one of his little brother 's , in order that he might join the drum corp .
He have no stick , however , and , cast about in his mind for a good substitute for the genuine thing , bethink him of bulrush .
`` Those will do first-rate , and there be lot in the ma ` sh , if I can only get 'em , '' he say to himself , and turn off from the road on his way home to get a supply .
Now , this marsh be a treacherous spot , and the tragic story be tell of a cow who get in there and sink till nothing be visible but a pair of horn above the mud , which suffocate the unwary beast .
For this reason it be call `` Cowslip Marsh , '' the wag say , though it be generally believe to be so name for the yellow flower which grow there in great profusion in the spring .
Sam have see Ben hop nimbly from one tuft of grass to another when he go to gather cowslip for Betty , and the stout boy think he could do the same .
Two or three heavy jump land him , not among the bulrush , a he have hop , but in a pool of muddy water , where he sink up to his middle with alarm rapidity .
Much scar , he try to wade out , but could only flounder to a tussock of grass , and cling there , while he endeavor to kick his legs free .
He get them out , but struggle in vain to coil them up or to hoist his heavy body upon the very small island in this sea of mud .
Down they splash again ; and Sam give a dismal groan a he think of the leech and water-snakes which might be lie in wait below .
Visions of the lose cow also flash across his agitated mind , and he give a despairing shout very like a distract `` Moo ! ''
Few people pass along the lane , and the sun be set , so the prospect of a night in the marsh nerve Sam to make a frantic plunge toward the bulrush island , which be near than the mainland , and look firm than any tussock round him .
But he fail to reach this haven of rest , and be force to stop at an old stump which stick up , look very like the moss-grown horn of the `` dear depart . ''
Roosting here , Sam begin to shout for aid in every key possible to the human voice .
Such hoot and howl , whistle and roar , never wake the echo of the lonely marsh before , or scar the portly frog who reside there in calm seclusion .
He hardly expect any reply but the astonished `` Caw ! ''
of the crow , who sit upon a fence watch him with gloomy interest ; and when a cheerful `` Hullo , there ! ''
sound from the lane , he be so grateful that tear of joy roll down his fat cheek .
`` Come on !
I 'm in the ma ` sh .
Lend a hand and get me out ! ''
bawl Sam , anxiously wait for his deliverer to appear , for he could only see a hat bobbing along behind the hazel-bushes that fringe the lane .
Steps crash through the bush , and then over the wall come an active figure , at the sight of which Sam be almost ready to dive out of sight , for , of all possible boy , who should it be but Ben , the last person in the world whom he would like to have see him in his present pitiful plight .
`` Is it you , Sam ?
Well , you be in a nice fix ! ''
and Ben 's eye begin to twinkle with mischievous merriment , as well they might , for Sam certainly be a spectacle to convulse the sober person .
Perched unsteadily on the gnarled stump , with his muddy leg draw up , his dismal face splash with mud , and the whole low half of his body as black a if he have be dip in an inkstand , he present such a comically doleful object that Ben dance about , laugh like a naughty will-o ' - the-wisp who , have lead a traveller astray then fell to jeer at him .
`` Stop that , or I 'll knock your head off ! ''
roar Sam , in a rage .
`` Come on and do it ; I give you leave , '' answer Ben , spar away derisively a the other totter on his perch , and be force to hold tight l he should tumble off .
`` Do n't laugh , there 's a good chap , but fish me out somehow , or I shall get my death sit here all wet and cold , '' whine Sam , change his tune , and feel bitterly that Ben have the upper hand now .
Ben felt it also ; and , though a very good-natured boy , could not resist the temptation to enjoy this advantage for a moment at least .
`` I wo n't laugh if I can help it ; only you do look so like a fat , speckle frog , I may not be able to hold in .
I 'll pull you out pretty soon ; but first I 'm go to talk to you , Sam , '' say Ben , sober down a he take a seat on the little point of land near the stranded Samuel .
`` Hurry up , then ; I 'm as stiff a a board now , and it 's no fun sit here on this knotty old thing , '' growl Sam , with a discontented squirm .
`` Dare say not , but ` it be good for you , ' a you say when you rap me over the head .
Look here , I 've get you in a tight place , and I do n't mean to help you a bit till you promise to let me alone .
Now then ! ''
and Ben 's face grow stern with his remembered wrong a he grimly eye his discomfited foe .
`` I 'll promise fast enough if you wo n't tell anyone about this , '' answer Sam , survey himself and his surroundings with great disgust .
`` I shall do a I like about that . ''
`` Then I wo n't promise a thing !
I 'm not go to have the whole school laughing at me , '' protest Sam , who hat to be ridicule even more than Ben do .
`` Very well ; good-night ! ''
and Ben walk off with his hand in his pocket as coolly a if the bog be Sam 's favorite retreat .
`` Hold on , do n't be in such a hurry ! ''
shout Sam , see little hope of rescue if he let this chance go .
`` All right ! ''
and back come Ben , ready for further negotiation .
`` I 'll promise not to plague you , if you 'll promise not to tell on me .
Is that what you want ? ''
`` Now I come to think of it , there be one thing more .
I like to make a good bargain when I begin , '' say Ben , with a shrewd air .
`` You must promise to keep Mose quiet , too .
He follow your lead , and if you tell him to stop it he will .
If I be big enough , I 'd make you hold your tongue .
I ai n't , so we 'll try this way . ''
`` Yes , Yes , I 'll see to Mose .
Now , bring on a rail , there 's a good fellow .
I 've get a horrid cramp in my leg , '' begin Sam , think he have buy help dearly , yet admire Ben 's cleverness in make the most of his chance .
Ben bring the rail , but , just a he be about to lay it from the main-land to the near tussock , he stop , say , with the naughty twinkle in his black eye again , `` One more little thing must be settle first , and then I 'll get you ashore .
Promise you wo n't plague the girl either , ` specially Bab and Betty .
You pull their hair , and they do n't like it . ''
`` Do n't neither !
Would n't touch that Bab for a dollar ; she scratch and bite like a mad cat , '' be Sam 's sulky reply .
`` Glad of it ; she can take care of herself .
Betty ca n't ; and if you touch one of her pig-tails I 'll up and tell right out how I find you snivel in the ma ` sh like a great baby .
So now ! ''
and Ben emphasize his threat with a blow of the suspend rail which splash the water over poor Sam , quench his last spark of resistance .
`` Stop !
I will !
-- I will ! ''
`` True a you live and breathe ! ''
demand Ben , sternly bind him by the most solemn oath he know .
`` True a I live and breathe , '' echo Sam , dolefully relinquish his favorite pastime of pull Betty 's braid and ask if she be at home .
`` I 'll come over there and crook finger on the bargain , '' say Ben , settle the rail and running over it to the tuft , then bridge another pool and cross again till he come to the stump .
`` I never think of that way , '' say Sam , watch him with much inward chagrin at his own failure .
`` I should think you 'd write ` Look before you leap , ' in your copy-book often enough to get the idea into your stupid head .
Come , crook , '' command Ben , lean forward with extend little finger .
Sam obediently perform the ceremony , and then Ben sit astride one of the horn of the stump while the muddy Crusoe go slowly across the rail from point to point till he land safely on the shore , when he turn about and ask with an ungrateful jeer , -- `` Now what 's go to become of you , old Look-before-you-leap ? ''
`` Mud turtle can only sit on a stump and bawl till they be take off , but frog have legs worth something , and be not afraid of a little water , '' answer Ben , hop away in an opposite direction , since the pool between him and Sam be too wide for even his lively leg .
Sam waddle off to the brook in the lane to rinse the mud from his nether man before face his mother , and be just wring himself out when Ben come up , breathless but good natured , for he felt that he have make an excellent bargain for himself and friend .
`` Better wash your face ; it 's as speckle a a tiger-lily .
Here 's my handkerchief if yours be wet , '' he say , pull out a dingy article which have evidently already do service a a towel .
`` Do n't want it , '' mutter Sam , gruffly , a he pour the water out of his muddy shoe .
`` I be teach to say ` Thanky ' when folk get me out of scrape .
But you never have much bringing up , though you do ` live in a house with a gambrel roof , ' '' retort Ben , sarcastically quote Sam 's frequent boast ; then he walk off , much disgust with the ingratitude of man .
Sam forget his manner , but he remember his promise , and keep it so well that all the school wonder .
No one could guess the secret of Ben 's power over him , though it be evident that he have gain it in some sudden way , for at the least sign of Sam 's former trick Ben would crook his little finger and wag it warningly , or call out `` Bulrushes ! ''
and Sam subside with reluctant submission , to the great amazement of his mate .
When ask what it mean , Sa , turn sulky ; but Ben have much fun out of it , assure the other boy that those be the sign and password of a secret society to which he and Sam belong , and promise to tell them all about it if Sam would give him leave , which , of course , he would not .
This mystery , and the vain endeavor to find it out cause a lull in the war of the wood-pile , and before any new game be invent something happen which give the child plenty to talk about for a time .
A week after the secret alliance be form , Ben run in one evening with a letter for Miss Celia .
He find her enjoy the cheery blaze of the pine-cones the little girl have pick up for her , and Bab and Betty sit in the small chair rock luxuriously a they take turn to throw on the pretty fuel .
Miss Celia turn quickly to receive the expected letter , glance at the writing , post-mark and stamp , with an air of delighted surprise , then clasp it close in both hand , say , a she hurry out of the room , -- `` He have come !
he have come !
Now you may tell them , Thorny . ''
`` Tell it what ?
ask Bab , prick up her car at once .
`` Oh , it 's only that George have come , and I suppose we shall go and get married right away , '' answer Thorny , rub his hand a if he enjoy the prospect .
`` Are you go to be marry ?
ask Betty , so soberly that the boy shout , and Thorny , with difficulty compose himself sufficiently to explain .
`` No , child , not just yet ; but sister be , and I must go and see that all be do up ship-shape , and bring you home some wedding-cake .
Ben will take care of you while I 'm go . ''
`` When shall you go ? ''
ask Bab , begin to long for her share of cake .
`` To-morrow , I guess .
Celia have be pack and ready for a week .
We agree to meet George in New York , and be marry as soon a he get his best clothes unpack .
We be men of our word , and off we go .
Wo n't it be fun ? ''
`` But when will you come back again ? ''
question Betty , look anxious .
`` Do n't know .
Sister want to come soon , but I 'd rather have our honeymoon somewhere else , -- Niagara , Newfoundland , West Point , or the Rocky Mountains , '' say Thorny , mention a few of the place he most desired to see .
`` Do you like him ? ''
ask Ben , very naturally wonder if the new master would approve of the young man-of-all-work .
`` Do n't I ?
George be regularly jolly ; though now he 's a minister , perhaps he 'll stiffen up and turn sober .
Wo n't it be a shame if he do ? ''
and Thorny look alarm at the thought of lose his congenial friend .
`` Tell about him ; Miss Celia say you might '' , put in Bab , whose experience of `` jolly '' minister have be small .
`` Oh , there be n't much about it .
We meet in Switzerland go up Mount St. Bernard in a storm , and -- '' `` Where the good dog live ? ''
inquired Betty , hop they would come into the story .
`` Yes ; we spend the night up there , and George give u his room ; the house be so full , and he would n't let me go down a steep place where I want to , and Celia think he 'd save my life , and be very good to him .
Then we keep meeting , and the first thing I know she go and be engage to him .
I do n't care , only she would come home so he might go on study hard and get through quick .
That be a year ago , and last winter we be in New York at uncle 's ; and then , in the spring , I be sick , and we come here , and that 's all . ''
`` Shall you live here always when you come back ?
ask Bab , a Thorny pause for breath .
`` Celia want to .
I shall go to college , so I do n't mind .
George be go to help the old minister here and see how he like it .
I 'm to study with him , and if he be as pleasant a he use to be we shall have capital time , -- see if we do n't . ''
`` I wonder if he will want me round , '' say Ben , feel no desire to be a tramp again .
`` I do , so you need n't fret about that , my hearty , '' answer Thorny , with a resound slap on the shoulder which reassure Ben more than any promise .
`` I 'd like to see a live wedding , then we could play it with our doll .
I 've get a nice piece of mosquito net for a veil , and Belinda 's white dress be clean .
Do you s ` pose Miss Celia will ask u to hers ? ''
say Betty to Bab , a the boy begin to discuss St. Bernard dog with Spirit .
`` I wish I could , dear , '' answer a voice behind them ; and there be Miss Celia , look so happy that the little girl wonder what the letter could have say to give her such bright eye and smile lip .
`` I shall not be go long , or be a bit change when I come back , to live among you year I hope , for I be fond of the old place now , and mean it shall be home , '' she add , caress the yellow head a if they be dear to her .
`` Oh , goody ! ''
cry Bab , while Betty whisper with both arm round Miss Celia , -- `` I do n't think we could bear to have anybody else come here to live . ''
`` It be very pleasant to hear you say that , and I mean to make others feel so , if I can .
I have be try a little this summer , but when I come back I shall go to work in earnest to be a good minister 's wife , and you must help me . ''
`` We will , '' promise both child , ready for any thing except preach in the high pulpit .
Then Miss Celia turn to Ben , say , in the respectful way that always make him feel at least twenty-five , -- `` We shall be off to-morrow , and I leave you in charge .
Go on just a if we be here , and be sure nothing will be change as far a you be concerned when we come back . ''
Ben 's face beam at that ; but the only way he could express his relief be by make such a blaze in honor of the occasion that he nearly roast the company .
Next morning , the brother and sister slip quietly away , and the child hurry to school , eager to tell the great news that `` Miss Celia and Thorny have go to be marry , and be come back to live here for ever and ever . ''
CHAPTER XXIII SOMEBODY COMES Bab and Betty have be play in the avenue all the afternoon several week later , but a the shadow begin to lengthen both agree to sit upon the gate and rest while wait for Ben , who have go nut with a party of boy .
When they play house Bab be always the father , and go hunt or fishing with great energy and success , bring home all sort of game , from elephant and crocodile to humming-birds and minnow .
Betty be the mother , and a most notable little housewife , always mix up imaginary delicacy with sand and dirt in old pan and broken china , which she bake in an oven of her own construction .
Both have work hard that day , and be glad to retire to their favorite lounging-place , where Bab be happy try to walk across the wide top bar without fall off , and Betty enjoy slow , luxurious swing while her sister be recover from her tumble .
On this occasion , have indulge their respective taste , they pause for a brief interval of conversation , sit side by side on the gate like a pair of plump gray chickens go to roost .
`` Do n't you hope Ben will get his bag full ?
We shall have such fun eat nut evening observe Bab , wrap her arm in her apron , for it be October now , and the air be grow keen .
`` Yes , and Ma say we may boil some in our little kettle .
Ben promise we should have half , '' answer Betty , still intent on her cookery .
`` I shall save some of mine for Thorny . ''
`` I shall keep lot of mine for Miss Celia . ''
`` Does n't it seem more than two week since she go away ? ''
`` I wonder what she 'll bring u . ''
Before Bab could conjecture , the sound of a step and a familiar whistle make both look expectantly toward the turn in the road , all ready to cry out in one voice , `` How many have you get ? ''
Neither speak a word , however , for the figure which presently appear be not Ben , but a stranger , -- a man who stop whistle , and come slowly on dust his shoe in the way-side grass , and brush the sleeve of his shabby velveteen coat a if anxious to freshen himself up a bit .
`` It 's a tramp , let 's run away , '' whisper Betty , after a hasty look .
`` I ai n't afraid , '' and Bab be about to assume her bold look when a sneeze spoilt it , and make her clutch the gate to hold on .
At that unexpected sound the man look up , show a thin , dark face , with a pair of sharp , black eye , which survey the little girl so steadily that Betty quake , and Bab begin to wish she have at least jump down inside the gate .
`` How be you ? ''
say the man with a goodnatured nod and smile , a if to re-assure the round-eyed child star at him .
`` Pretty well , thank you , sir , '' respond Bab , politely nod back at him .
`` Folks at home ? ''
ask the man , look over their head toward the house .
`` Only Ma ; all the rest have go to be marry . ''
`` That sound lively .
At the other place all the folk have go to a funeral , '' and the man laugh a he glance at the big house on the hill .
`` Why , do you know the Squire ? ''
exclaim Bab , much surprised and re-assured .
`` Come on purpose to see him .
Just stroll round till he get back , '' with an impatient sort of sigh .
`` Betty think you be a tramp , but I be n't afraid .
I like tramp ever since Ben come , '' explain Bab , with her usual candor .
`` Who 's Ben ! ''
and the man come nearer so quickly that Betty nearly fell backward .
`` Do n't you be scar , Sissy .
I like little girl , so you set easy and tell me about Ben , '' he add , in a persuasive tone , a he lean on the gate so near that both could see what a friendly face he have in spite of it eager , anxious look .
`` Ben be Miss Celia 's boy .
We find him most starve in the coach-house , and he 's be here ever since , '' answer Bab , comprehensively .
`` Tell me about it .
I like tramp , too , '' and the man look a if he do very much , a Bab tell the little story in a few childish word that be good than a much more elegant account .
`` You be very good to the little feller , '' be all the man say when she end her somewhat confused tale , in which she have jumble the old coach and Miss Celia , dinner-pails and nutting , Sancho and circus . ''
` Course we be !
He 's a nice boy and we be fond of him , and he like u , '' say Bab , heartily . ''
` Specially me , '' put in Betty , quite at ease now , for the black eye have soften wonderfully , and the brown face be smile all over .
`` Do n't wonder a mite .
You be the nice pair of little girl I 've see this long time , '' and the man put a hand on either side of them , a if he want to hug the chubby child .
But he do n't do it ; he merely smile and stand there ask question till the two chatterbox have tell him every thing there be to tell in the most confiding manner , for he very soon cease to seem like a stranger , and look so familiar that Bab , grow inquisitive in her turn , suddenly say , -- `` Have n't you ever be here before ?
It seem a if I 'd see you . ''
`` Never in my life .
Guess you 've see somebody that look like me , '' and the black eye twinkle for a minute a they look into the puzzled little face before him , then he say , soberly , -- `` I 'm look round for a likely boy ; do n't you think this Ben would suite me ?
I want just such a lively sort of chap . ''
`` Are you a circus man ? ''
ask Bab , quickly .
`` Well , no , not now .
I 'm in good business . ''
`` I 'm glad of it -- we do n't approve of 'em ; but I do think they 're splendid ! ''
Bab begin by gravely quote Miss Celia , and end with an irrepressible burst of admiration which contrast drolly with her first remark .
Betty add , anxiously : `` We ca n't let Ben go any way .
I know he would n't want to , and Miss Celia would feel bad .
Please do n't ask him . ''
`` He can do a he like , I suppose .
He have n't get any folk of his own , have he ? ''
`` No , his father die in California , and Ben felt so bad he cry , and we be real sorry , and give him a piece of Ma , 'cause he be so lonesome , '' answer Betty , in her tender little voice , with a pleading look which make the man stroke her smooth check and say , quite softly , -- `` Bless your heart for that !
I wo n't take him away , child , or do a thing to trouble anybody that 's be good to him . ''
`` He 's come now .
I hear Sanch barking at the squirrel ! ''
cry Bab , stand up to get a good look down the road .
The man turn quickly , and Betty saw that he breathe fast a he watch the spot where the low sunshine lay warmly on the red maple at the corner .
Into this glow come unconscious Ben , whistle `` Rory O'Moore , '' loud and Clear , a he trudge along with a heavy bag of nut over his shoulder and the light full on his contented face .
Sancho trot before and saw the stranger first , for the sun in Ben 's eye dazzle him .
Since his sad loss Sancho cherish a strong dislike to tramp , and now he pause to growl and show his teeth , evidently intend to warn this one off the premise .
`` He wo n't hurt you -- '' begin Bab , encouragingly ; but before she could add a chiding word to the dog , Sanch give an excited howl , and fly at the man 's throat a if about to throttle him .
Betty scream , and Bab be about to go to the rescue when both perceive that the dog be lick the stranger 's face in an ecstasy of joy , and hear the man say a he hug the curly beast , -- `` Good old Sanch !
I know he would n't forget master , and he do n't . ''
`` What 's the matter ? ''
call Ben , come up briskly , with a strong grip of his stout stick .
There be no need of any answer , for , a he come into the shadow , he saw the man , and stand look at him a if he be a ghost .
`` It 's father , Benny ; do n't you know me ? ''
ask the man , with an odd sort of choke in his voice , a he thrust the dog away , and hold out both hand to the boy .
Down drop the nut , and cry , `` Oh , Daddy , Daddy ! ''
Ben cast himself into the arm of the shabby velveteen coat , while poor Sanch tore round them in distracted circle , bark wildly , a if that be the only way in which he could vent his rapture .
What happen next Bab and Betty never stop to see , but , drop from their roost , they go fly home like startle Chicken Littles with the astound news that `` Ben 's father have come alive , and Sancho know him right away ! ''
Mrs. Moss have just get her cleaning do up , and be rest a minute before set the table , but she fly out of her old rocking-chair when the excited child tell the wonderful tale , exclaim a they end , -- `` Where be he ?
Go bring him here .
I declare it fairly take my breath away ! ''
Before Bab could obey , or her mother compose herself , Sancho bounce in and spin round like an insane top , try to stand on his head , walk upright , waltz and bark all at once , for the good old fellow have so lose his head that he forget the loss of his tail .
`` They be come !
they be come !
See , Ma , what a nice man he be , '' say Bab , hop about on one foot a she watch the slowly approach pair .
`` My patience , do n't they look alike !
I should know he be Ben 's Pa anywhere ! ''
say Mrs. Moss , run to the door in a hurry .
They certainly do resemble one another , and it be almost comical to see the same curve in the leg , the same wide-awake style of wear the hat , the same sparkle of the eye , good-natured smile and agile motion of every limb .
Old Ben carry the bag in one hand while young Ben hold the other fast , look a little shame-faced at his own emotion now , for there be mark of tear on his cheek , but too glad to repress the delight he felt that he have really find Daddy this side heaven .
Mrs. Moss unconsciously make a pretty little picture of herself a she stand at the door with her honest face shining and both hand ont , say in a hearty tone , which be a welcome in itself , `` I 'm real glad to see you safe and well , Mr. Brown !
Come right in and make yourself to home .
I guess there be n't a happy boy living than Ben be to-night . ''
`` And I know there be n't a gratefuler man live than I be for your kindness to my poor forsaken little feller , '' answer Mr. Brown , drop both his burden to give the comely woman 's hand a hard shake .
`` Now do n't say a word about it , but sit down and rest , and we 'll have tea in less 'n no time .
Ben must be tire and hungry , though he 's so happy I do n't believe he know it , '' laugh Mrs. Moss , bustle away to hide the tear in her eye , anxious to make thing sociable and easy all round .
With this end in view she set forth her best china , and cover the table with food enough for a dozen , thank her star that it be bake day , and every thing have turn out well .
Ben and his father sit talk by the window till they be bid to `` draw up and help themselves '' with such hospitable warmth that every thing have an extra relish to the hungry pair .
Ben pause occasionally to stroke the rusty coat-sleeve with bread-and-buttery finger to convince himself that `` Daddy '' have really come , and his father dispose of various inconvenient emotion by eat a if food be unknown in California .
Mrs. Moss beam on every one from behind the big tea-pot like a mild full moon , while Bab and Betty keep interrupt one another in their eagerness to tell something new about Ben and how Sanch lose his tail .
`` Now you let Mr. Brown talk a little ; we all want to hear how he ` come alive , ' a you call it , '' say Mrs. Moss , a they draw round the fire in the `` settin ' - room , '' leave the tea-things to take care of themselves .
It be not a long story , but a very interesting one to this circle of listener ; all about the wild life on the plain trading for mustang , the terrible kick from a vicious horse that nearly kill Ben , sen. , the long month of unconsciousness in the California hospital , the slow recovery , the journey back , Mr. Smithers 's tale of the boy 's disappearance , and then the anxious trip to find out from Squire Allen where he now be .
`` I ask the hospital folk to write and tell you as soon a I know whether I be on my head or my heel , and they promise ; but they do n't ; so I come off the minute I could , and work my way back , expect to find you at the old place .
I be afraid you 'd have wear out your welcome here and go off again , for you be a fond of travel a your father . ''
`` I want to sometimes , but the folk here be so dreadful good to me I could n't , '' confess Ben , secretly surprise to find that the prospect of go off with Daddy even cost him a pang of regret , for the boy have take root in the friendly soil , and be no long a wandering thistle-down , toss about by every wind that blew .
`` I know what I owe 'em , and you and I will work out that debt before we die , or our name be n't B.B . , '' say Mr. Brown , with an emphatic slap on his knee , which Ben imitate half unconsciously a he exclaim heartily , -- `` That 's so ! ''
add , more quietly , `` What be you go to do now ?
Go back to Smithers and the old business ? ''
`` Not likely , after the way he treat you , Sonny .
I 've have it out with him , and he wo n't want to see me again in a hurry , '' answer Mr. Brown , with a sudden kindling of the eye that remind Bab of Ben 's face when he shake her after lose Sancho .
`` There 's more circus than his in the world ; but I 'll have to limber out ever so much before I 'm good for much in that line , '' say the boy , stretch his stout arm and leg with a curious mixture of satisfaction and regret .
`` You 've be live in clover and get fat , you rascal , '' and his father give him a poke here and there , a Mr. Squeers do the plump Wackford , when display him a a specimen of the fine diet at Do-the-boys Hall .
`` Do n't believe I could put you up now if I try , for I have n't get my strength back yet , and we be both out of practice .
It 's just as well , for I 've about make up my mind to quit the business and settle down somewhere for a spell , if I can get any thing to do , '' continue the rider , fold his arm and gaze thoughtfully into the fire .
`` I should n't wonder a mite if you could right here , for Mr. Towne have a great boarding-stable over yonder , and he 's always want men . ''
Said Mrs. Moss , eagerly , for she dread to have Ben go , and no one could forbid it if his father choose to take him away .
`` That sound likely .
Thanky , ma'am .
I 'll look up the concern and try my chance .
Would you call it too great a come-down to have father an ` ostler after be first rider in the ` Great Golden Menagerie , Circus , and Colossem , ' hey , Ben ? ''
ask Mr. Brown , quote the well-remembered show-bill with a laugh .
`` No , I should n't ; it 's real jolly up there when the big barn be full and eighty horse have to be take care of .
I love to go and see 'em .
Mr. Towne ask me to come and be stable-boy when I ride the kicking gray the rest be afraid of .
I hanker to go , but Miss Celia have just get my new book , and I know she 'd feel bad if I give up go to school .
Now I 'm glad I do n't , for I get on first rate and like it . ''
`` You do right , boy , and I 'm pleased with you .
Do n't you ever be ungrateful to them that befriend you , if you want to prosper .
I 'll tackle the stable business a Monday and see what 's to be do .
Now I ought to be walk , but I 'll be round in the morning ma'am , if you can spare Ben for a spell to-morrow .
We 'd like to have a good Sunday tramp and talk ; would n't we , Sonny ? ''
and Mr. Brown rise to go with his hand on Ben 's shoulder , a if loth to leave him even for the night .
Mrs. Moss saw the longing in his face , and forget that he be an utter stranger , speak right out of her hospitable heart .
`` It 's a long piece to the tavern , and my little back bedroom be always ready .
It wo n't make a mite of trouble if you do n't mind a plain place , and you be heartily welcome . ''
Mr. Brown look pleased , but hesitate to accept any further favor from the good soul who have already do so much for him and his .
Ben give him no time to speak , however , for run to a door he fling it open and beckon , say , eagerly , -- `` Do stay , father ; it will be so nice to have you .
This be a tip-top room ; I sleep here the night I come , and that bed be just splendid after bare ground for a fortnight . ''
`` I 'll stop , and a I 'm pretty well do up , I guess we may as well turn in now , '' answer the new guest ; then , a if the memory of that homeless little lad so kindly cherish make his heart overflow in spite of him , Mr. Brown pause at the door to say hastily , with a hand on Bab and Betty 's head , a if his promise be a very earnest one , -- `` I do n't forget , ma'am , these child shall never want a friend while Ben Brown 's alive ; '' then he shut the door so quickly that the other Ben 's prompt `` Hear , hear ! ''
be cut short in the middle .
`` I s ` pose he mean that we shall have a piece of Ben 's father , because we give Ben a piece of our mother , '' say Betty , softly .
`` Of course he do , and it 's all fair , '' answer Bab , decidedly .
`` Is n't he a nice man , Ma ?
`` Go to bed , child , '' be all the answer she get ; but when they be go , Mrs. Moss , a she wash up her dish , more than once glance at a certain nail where a man 's hat have not hang for five year , and think with a sigh what a natural , protect air that slouch felt have .
If one wedding be not quite enough for a child 's story , we might here hint what no one dreamed of then , that before the year come round again Ben have find a mother , Bab and Betty a father , and Mr. Brown 's hat be quite at home behind the kitchen door .
But , on the whole , it be best not to say a word about it .
CHAPTER XXIV THE GREAT GATE IS OPENED The Browns be up and out so early next morning that Bab and Betty be sure they have run away in the night .
But on look for them , they be discover in the coach-house criticising Lita , both with their hand in their pocket , both chew straw , and look as much alike a a big elephant and a small one .
`` That 's a pretty a little span a I 've see for a long time , '' say the elder Ben , a the child come trot down the path hand in hand , with the four blue bow at the end of their braid bob briskly up and down .
`` The nigh one be my favorite , but the off one be the best goer , though she 's dreadfully hard bitted , '' answer Ben the young , with such a comical assumption of a jockey 's important air that his father laugh a he say in an undertone , -- `` Come , boy , we must drop the old slang since we 've give up the old business .
These good folk be make a gentleman of you , and I wo n't be the one to spoil their work .
Hold on , my dear , and I 'll show you how they say good-morning in California , '' he add , beckon to the little girl , who now come up rosy and smile .
`` Breakfast be ready , sir , '' say Betty , look much relieve to find them .
`` We think you 'd run away from u , '' explain Bab , a both put out their hand to shake those extend to them .
`` That would be a mean trick .
But I 'm go to run away with you , '' and Mr. Brown whisk a little girl to either shoulder before they know what have happen , while Ben , remember the day , with difficulty restrain himself from turn a series of triumphant somersault before them all the way to the door , where Mrs. Moss stand wait for them .
After breakfast Ben disappear for a short time , and return in his Sunday suit , look so neat and fresh that his father survey him with surprise and pride a he come in full of boyish satisfaction in his trim array .
`` Here 's a smart young chap !
Did you take all that trouble just to go to walk with old Daddy ? ''
ask Mr. Brown , stroke the smooth head , for they be alone just then , Mrs. Moss and the child be up stair prepare for church .
`` I think may be you 'd like to go to meet first , '' answer Ben , look up at him with such a happy face that it be hard to refuse any thing .
`` I 'm too shabby , Sonny , else I 'd go in a minute to please you . ''
`` Miss Celia say God do n't mind poor clothes , and she take me when I look bad than you do .
I always go in the morning ; she like to have me , '' say Ben , turn his hat about a if not quite sure what he ought to do .
`` Do you want to go ? ''
ask his father in a tone of surprise .
`` I want to please her , if you do n't mind .
We could have our tramp this afternoon . ''
`` I have n't be to meet since mother die , and it do n't seem to come easy , though I know I ought to , see I 'm alive and here , '' and Mr. Brown look soberly out at the lovely autumn world a if glad to be in it after his late danger and pain .
`` Miss Celia say church be a good place to take our trouble , and to be thankful in .
I go when I think you be dead , and now I 'd love to go when I 've get my Daddy safe again . ''
No one saw him , so Ben could not resist give his father a sudden hug , which be warmly return a the man say earnestly , -- `` I 'll go , and thank the Lord hearty for give me back my boy well 'n I leave him ! ''
For a minute nothing be hear but the loud tick of the old clock and a mournful whine front Sancho , shut up in the shed lest he should go to church without an invitation .
Then , a step be hear on the stair , Mr. Brown catch up his hat , say hastily , -- `` I ai n't fit to go with them , you tell 'm , and I 'll slip into a back seat after folk be in .
I know the way . ''
And , before Ben could reply , he be go .
Nothing be see of him along the way , but he saw the little party , and rejoice again over his boy , change in so many way for the good ; for Ben be the one thing which have keep his heart soft through all the trial and temptation of a rough life .
`` I promise Mary I 'd do my best for the poor baby she have to leave , and I try ; but I guess a good friend than I be have be raise up for him when he need her most .
It wo n't hurt me to follow him in this road , '' think Mr. Brown , a he come out into the highway from his stroll `` across-lots , '' feel that it would be good for him to stay in this quiet place , for his own as well a his son 's sake .
The Bell have do ringing when he reach the green , but a single boy sit on the step and rail to meet him , say , with a reproachful look , -- `` I be n't go to let you be alone , and have folk think I be ashamed of my father .
Come , Daddy , we 'll sit together . ''
So Ben lead his father straight to the Squire 's pew , and sit beside him with a face so full of innocent pride and joy , that people would have suspect the truth if he have not already tell many of them .
Mr. Brown , painfully conscious of his shabby coat , be rather `` take aback , '' a he express it ; but the Squire 's shake of the hand , and Mrs. Allen 's gracious nod enable him to face the eye of the interested congregation , the young portion of which star steadily at him all sermon time , in spite of paternal frown and maternal tweakings in the rear .
But the crowning glory of the day come after church , when the Squire say to Ben , and Sam hear him , -- `` I 've get a letter for you from Miss Celia .
Come home with me , and bring your father .
I want to talk to him . ''
The boy proudly escort his parent to the old carry-all , and , tuck himself in behind with Mrs. Allen , have the satisfaction of see the slouch felt hat side by side with the Squire 's Sunday beaver in front , a they drive off at such an unusually smart pace , it be evident that Duke know there be a critical eye upon him .
The interest take in the father be owe to the son at first ; but , by the time the story be tell , old Ben have win friend for himself not only because of the misfortune which he have evidently bear in a manly way , but because of his delight in the boy 's improvement , and the desire he felt to turn his hand to any honest work , that he might keep Ben happy and content in this good home .
`` I 'll give you a line to Towne .
Smithers speak well of you , and your own ability will be the best recommendation , '' say the Squire , a he part from them at his door , have give Ben the letter .
Miss Celia have be go a fortnight , and every one be long to have her back .
The first week bring Ben a newspaper , with a crinkly line draw round the marriage to attract attention to that spot , and one be mark by a black frame with a large hand point at it from the margin .
Thorny send that ; but the next week come a parcel for Mrs. Moss , and in it be discover a box of wed cake for every member of the family , include Sancho , who eat his at one gulp , and chew up the lace paper which cover it .
This be the third week ; and , a if there could not be happiness enough crowd into it for Ben , the letter he read on his way home tell him that his dear mistress be come back on the following Saturday .
One passage particularly please him , -- `` I want the great gate open , so that the new master may go in that way .
Will you see that it be do , and all make neat afterward ?
Randa will give you the key , and you may have out all your flag if you like , for the old place can not look too gay for this home-coming . ''
Sunday though it be , Ben could not help wave the letter over his head a he run in to tell Mrs. Moss the glad news , and begin at once to plan the welcome they would give Miss Celia , for he never call her any thing else .
During their afternoon stroll in the mellow sunshine , Ben continue to talk of her , never tire of tell about his happy summer under her roof .
And Mr. Brown be never weary of hearing , for every hour show him more plainly what a lovely miracle her gentle word have work , and every hour increase his gratitude , his desire to return the kindness in some humble way .
He have his wish , and do his part handsomely when he least expect to have a chance .
On Monday he saw Mr. Towne , and , thanks to the Squire 's good word , be engage for a month on trial , make himself so useful that it be soon evident he be the right man in the right place .
He live on the hill , but manage to get down to the little brown house in the evening for a word with Ben , who just now be a full of business a if the President and his Cabinet be come .
Every thing be put in apple-pie order in and about the old house ; the great gate , with much creaking of rusty hinge and some clear away of rubbish , be set wide open , and the first creature who enter it be Sancho , solemnly drag the dead mullein which long ago have grow above the keyhole .
October frost seem to have spar some of the bright leaf for this especial occasion ; and on Saturday the arched gate-way be hang with gay wreath , red and yellow spray strew the flag , and the porch be a blaze of color with the red woodbine , that be in it glory when the honeysuckle be leafless .
Fortunately it be a half-holiday , so the child could trim and chatter to their heart 's content , and the little girl run about stick funny decoration where no one would ever think of look for them .
Ben be absorb in his flag , which be sprinkle all down the avenue with a lavish display , suggest several Fourth of Julys roll into one .
Mr. Brown have come to lend a hand , and do so most energetically , for the break-neck thing he do with his son during the decoration fever would have terrify Mrs. Moss out of her wit , if she have not be in the house give last touch to every room , while Randa and Katy set forth a sumptuous tea .
All be go well , and the train would be due in an hour , when luckless Bab nearly turn the rejoicing into mourning , the feast into ash .
She hear her mother say to Randa , `` There ought to be a fire in every room , it look so cheerful , and the air be chilly spite of the sunshine ; '' and , never wait to hear the reply that some of the long-unused chimney be not safe till clean , off go Bab with an apron full of old shingle , and make a roaring blaze in the front room fire-place , which be of all others the one to be let alone , a the flue be out of order .
Charmed with the brilliant light and the crackle of the tindery fuel , Miss Bab refill her apron , and feed the fire till the chimney begin to rumble ominously , spark to fly out at the top , and soot and swallow ' nest to come tumble down upon the hearth .
Then , scar at what she have do , the little mischief-maker hastily bury her fire , sweep up the rubbish , and run off , think no one would discover her prank if she never tell .
Everybody be very busy , and the big chimney blaze and rumble unnoticed till the cloud of smoke catch Ben 's eye a he festoon his last effort in the flag line , part of an old sheet with the word `` Father have come ! ''
in red cambric letter half a foot long sew upon it .
`` Hullo !
I do believe they 've get up a bonfire , without ask my leave .
Miss Celia never would let u , because the shed and roof be so old and dry ; I must see about it .
Catch me , Daddy , I 'm come down ! ''
cry Ben , drop out of the elm with no more thought of where he might light than a squirrel swinging from bough to bough .
His father catch him , and follow in haste a his nimble-footed son race up the avenue , to stop in the gate-way , frighten at the prospect before him , for fall spark have already kindle the roof here and there , and the chimney smoke and roar like a small volcano , while Katy 's wail and Randa 's cry for water come from within .
`` Up there with wet blanket , while I get out the hose ! ''
cried Mr. Brown , a he saw at a glance what the danger be .
Ben vanish ; and , before his father get the garden hose rig , he be on the roof with a drip blanket over the bad spot .
Mrs. Moss have her wit about her in a minute , and run to put in the fireboard , and stop the draught .
Then , station Randa to watch that the fall cinder do no harm inside , she hurry off to help Mr. Brown , who might not know where thing be .
But he have rough it so long , that he be the man for emergency , and seem to lay his hand on whatever be need , by a sort of instinct .
Finding that the hose be too short to reach the upper part of the roof , he be on the roof in a jiffy with two pail of water , and quench the most dangerous spot before much harm be do .
This he keep up till the chimney burn itself out , while Ben dodge about among the gable with a watering pot , l some stray spark should be over-looked , and break out afresh .
While they work there , Betty run to and fro with a dipper of water , try to help ; and Sancho bark violently , a if he object to this sort of illumination .
But where be Bab , who revel in flurry ?
No one miss her till the fire be out , and the tired , sooty people meet to talk over the danger just escape .
`` Poor Miss Celia would n't have have a roof over her head , if it have n't be for you , Mr. Brown , '' say Mrs. Moss , sink into a kitchen chair , pale with the excitement .
`` It would have burn lively , but I guess it 's all right now .
Keep an eye on the roof , Ben , and I 'll step up garret and see if all 's safe there .
Did n't you know that chimney be foul , ma'am ? ''
ask the man , a he wipe the perspiration off his grimy face .
`` Randa say it be , and I ` in surprised she make a fire there , '' begin Mrs. Moss , look at the maid , who just then come in with a pan full of soot .
`` Bless you , ma'am , I never think of such a thing , nor Katy neither .
That naughty Bab must have do it , and so do n't dar ` st to show herself , '' answer the irate Randa , whose nice room be in a mess .
`` Where be the child ? ''
ask her mother ; and a hunt be immediately institute by Betty and Sancho , while the elder clear up .
Anxious Betty search high and low , call and cry , but all in vain ; and be about to sit down in despair , when Sancho make a bolt into his new kennel and bring out a shoe with a foot in it while a doleful squeal come from the straw within .
`` Oh , Bab , how could you do it ?
Ma be frighten dreadfully , '' say Betty , gently tug at the striped leg , a Sancho poke his head in for another shoe .
`` Is it all burn up ? ''
demand a smothered voice from the recess of the kennel .
`` Only piece of the roof .
Ben and his father put it out , and I help , '' answer Betty , cheer up a little a she recall her noble exertion .
`` What do they do to folks who set house afire ? ''
ask the voice again .
`` I do n't know ; but you need n't be afraid , there be n't much harm do , I guess , and Miss Celia will forgive you , she 's so good . ''
`` Thorny wo n't ; he call me a ` botheration , ' and I guess I be , '' mourn the unseen culprit , with sincere contrition .
`` I 'll ask him ; he be always good to me .
They will be here pretty soon , so you 'd better come out and be make tidy , '' suggest the comforter .
`` I never can come out , for every one will hate me , '' sob Bab among the straw , a she pull in her foot , a if retire for ever from an outraged world .
`` Ma wo n't , she 's too busy clean up ; so it 's a good time to come .
Let 's run home , wash our hand , and be all nice when they see u .
I 'll love you , no matter what anybody else do , '' say Betty , console the poor little sinner , and propose the sort of repentance most likely to find favor in the eye of the agitated elder .
`` P'raps I 'd well go home , for Sanch will want his bed , '' and Bab gladly avail herself of that excuse to back out of her refuge , a very crumpled , dusty young lady , with a dejected face and much straw stick in her hair .
Betty lead her sadly away , for she still protest that she never should dare to meet the offend public again ; but in fifteen minute both appear in fine order and good spirit , and naughty Bab escape a lecture for the time be , a the train would soon be due .
At the first sound of the car whistle every one turn good-natured a if by magic , and fly to the gate smiling a if all mishap be forgive and forget .
Mrs. Moss , however , slip quietly away , and be the first to greet Mrs. Celia a the carriage stop at the entrance of the avenue , so that the luggage might go in by way of the lodge .
`` We will walk up and you shall tell u the news a we go , for I see you have some , '' say the young lady , in her friendly manner , when Mrs. Moss have give her welcome and pay her respect to the gentleman who shake hand in a way that convince her he be indeed what Thorny call him , `` regularly jolly , '' though he be a minister .
That be exactly what she come for , the good woman tell her tidings as rapidly a possible , and the new-comers be so glad to hear of Ben 's happiness they make very light of Bab 's bonfire , though it have nearly burn their house down .
`` We wo n't say a word about it , for every one must be happy to-day , '' say Mr. George , so kindly that Mrs. Moss felt a load take off her heart at once .
`` Bab be always tease me for firework , but I guess she have have enough for the present , '' laugh Thorny , who be gallantly escort Bab 's mother up the avenue .
`` Every one be so kind !
Teacher be out with the child to cheer u a we pass , and here you all be make thing pretty for me , '' say Mrs. Celia , smile with tear in her eye , a they draw near the great gate , which certainly do present an animated if not an imposing appearance .
Randa and Katy stand on one side , all in their best , bob delighted courtesy ; Mr. Brown , half hidden behind the gate on the other side , be keep Sancho erect , so that he might present arm promptly when the bride appear .
As flower be scarce , on either post stand a rosy little girl clap her hand , while out from the thicket of red and yellow bough , which make a grand bouquet in the lantern frame , come Ben 's head and shoulder , a he wave his grand flag with it gold paper `` Welcome Home ! ''
on a blue ground .
`` Is n't it beautiful ! ''
cried Mrs. Celia , throw kiss to the child , shake hand with her maid , and glance brightly at the stranger who be keep Sanch quiet .
`` Most people adorn their gate-posts with stone ball , vas , or griffin ; your living image be a great improvement , love , especially the happy boy in the middle , '' say Mr. George , eye Ben with interest , a he nearly tumble overboard , top-heavy with his banner .
`` You must finish what I have only begin , '' answer Celia , add gayly a Sancho break loose and come to offer both his paw and his congratulation .
`` Sanch , introduce your master , that I may thank him for come back in time to save my old house . ''
`` If I 'd save a dozen it would n't have half pay for all you 've do for my boy , ma'am , '' answer Mr. Brown , burst out from behind the gate quite red with gratitude and pleasure .
`` I love to do it , so please remember that this be still his home till you make one for him .
Thank God , he be no long fatherless ! ''
and her sweet face say even more than her word a the white hand cordially shake the brown one with a burn across the back .
`` Come on , sister .
I see the tea-table all ready , and I 'm awfully hungry , '' interrupt Thorny , who have not a ray of sentiment about him , though very glad Ben have get his father back again .
`` Come over , by-and-by , little friend , and let me thank you for your pretty welcome , -- it certainly be a warm one ; '' and Mrs. Celia glance merrily from the three bright face above her to the old chimney , which still smoke sullenly .
`` Oh , do n't ! ''
cry Bab , hide her face .
`` She do n't mean to , '' add Betty , pleadingly .
`` Three cheer for the bride ! ''
roar Ben , dip his flag , a lean on her husband 's arm his dear mistress pass under the gay arch , along the leaf-strewn walk , over the threshold of the house which be to be her happy home for many year .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Anne's_House_of_Dreams.txt.out
CHAPTER 1 IN THE GARRET OF GREEN GABLES `` Thanks be , I 'm do with geometry , learn or teach it , '' say Anne Shirley , a trifle vindictively , a she thump a somewhat battered volume of Euclid into a big chest of book , bang the lid in triumph , and sit down upon it , look at Diana Wright across the Green Gables garret , with gray eye that be like a morning sky .
The garret be a shadowy , suggestive , delightful place , a all garret should be .
Through the open window , by which Anne sit , blow the sweet , scent , sun-warm air of the August afternoon ; outside , poplar bough rustle and toss in the wind ; beyond them be the wood , where Lover 's Lane wind it enchanted path , and the old apple orchard which still bore it rosy harvest munificently .
And , over all , be a great mountain range of snowy cloud in the blue southern sky .
Through the other window be glimpse a distant , white-capped , blue sea -- the beautiful St. Lawrence Gulf , on which float , like a jewel , Abegweit , whose softer , sweeter Indian name have long be forsake for the more prosaic one of Prince Edward Island .
Diana Wright , three year old than when we last saw her , have grow somewhat matronly in the intervening time .
But her eye be a black and brilliant , her cheek a rosy , and her dimple a enchanting , a in the long-ago day when she and Anne Shirley have vow eternal friendship in the garden at Orchard Slope .
In her arm she hold a small , sleeping , black-curled creature , who for two happy year have be know to the world of Avonlea a `` Small Anne Cordelia . ''
Avonlea folk know why Diana have call her Anne , of course , but Avonlea folk be puzzle by the Cordelia .
There have never be a Cordelia in the Wright or Barry connection .
Mrs. Harmon Andrews say she suppose Diana have find the name in some trashy novel , and wonder that Fred have n't more sense than to allow it .
But Diana and Anne smile at each other .
They know how Small Anne Cordelia have come by her name .
`` You always hat geometry , '' say Diana with a retrospective smile .
`` I should think you 'd be real glad to be through with teaching , anyhow . ''
`` Oh , I 've always like teaching , apart from geometry .
These past three year in Summerside have be very pleasant one .
Mrs. Harmon Andrews tell me when I come home that I would n't likely find married life a much good than teach a I expect .
Evidently Mrs. Harmon be of Hamlet 's opinion that it may be good to bear the ill that we have than fly to others that we know not of . ''
Anne 's laugh , a blithe and irresistible a of yore , with an added note of sweetness and maturity , rang through the garret .
Marilla in the kitchen below , compound blue plum preserve , hear it and smile ; then sigh to think how seldom that dear laugh would echo through Green Gables in the year to come .
Nothing in her life have ever give Marilla so much happiness a the knowledge that Anne be go to marry Gilbert Blythe ; but every joy must bring with it it little shadow of sorrow .
During the three Summerside year Anne have be home often for vacation and weekend ; but , after this , a bi-annual visit would be as much a could be hop for .
`` You need n't let what Mrs. Harmon say worry you , '' say Diana , with the calm assurance of the four-years matron .
`` Married life have it ups and down , of course .
You must n't expect that everything will always go smoothly .
But I can assure you , Anne , that it 's a happy life , when you 're marry to the right man . ''
Anne smother a smile .
Diana 's air of vast experience always amuse her a little .
`` I daresay I 'll be put them on too , when I 've be marry four year , '' she think .
`` Surely my sense of humor will preserve me from it , though . ''
`` Is it settle yet where you be go to live ? ''
ask Diana , cuddle Small Anne Cordelia with the inimitable gesture of motherhood which always send through Anne 's heart , fill with sweet , unuttered dream and hope , a thrill that be half pure pleasure and half a strange , ethereal pain .
`` Yes .
That be what I want to tell you when I ` phone to you to come down today .
By the way , I ca n't realize that we really have telephone in Avonlea now .
It sound so preposterously up-to-date and modernish for this darling , leisurely old place . ''
`` We can thank the A. V. I. S. for them , '' say Diana .
`` We should never have get the line if they have n't take the matter up and carry it through .
There be enough cold water throw to discourage any society .
But they stick to it , nevertheless .
You do a splendid thing for Avonlea when you found that society , Anne .
What fun we do have at our meeting !
Will you ever forget the blue hall and Judson Parker 's scheme for paint medicine advertisement on his fence ? ''
`` I do n't know that I 'm wholly grateful to the A. V. I. S. in the matter of the telephone , '' say Anne .
`` Oh , I know it 's most convenient -- even more so than our old device of signal to each other by flash of candlelight !
And , a Mrs. Rachel say , ` Avonlea must keep up with the procession , that 's what . '
But somehow I feel a if I do n't want Avonlea spoil by what Mr. Harrison , when he want to be witty , call ` modern inconvenience . '
I should like to have it keep always just a it be in the dear old year .
That 's foolish -- and sentimental -- and impossible .
So I shall immediately become wise and practical and possible .
The telephone , a Mr. Harrison concede , be ' a buster of a good thing ' -- even if you do know that probably half a dozen interested people be listen along the line . ''
`` That 's the bad of it , '' sigh Diana .
`` It 's so annoying to hear the receiver go down whenever you ring anyone up .
They say Mrs. Harmon Andrews insist that their ` phone should be put in their kitchen just so that she could listen whenever it ring and keep an eye on the dinner at the same time .
Today , when you call me , I distinctly hear that queer clock of the Pyes ' striking .
So no doubt Josie or Gertie be listen . ''
`` Oh , so that be why you say , ` You 've get a new clock at Green Gables , have n't you ? '
I could n't imagine what you mean .
I hear a vicious click as soon a you have speak .
I suppose it be the Pye receiver be hang up with profane energy .
Well , never mind the Pyes .
As Mrs. Rachel say , ` Pyes they always be and Pyes they always will be , world without end , amen . '
I want to talk of pleasanter thing .
It 's all settle a to where my new home shall be . ''
`` Oh , Anne , where ?
I do hope it 's near here . ''
`` No-o-o , that 's the drawback .
Gilbert be go to settle at Four Winds Harbor -- sixty mile from here . ''
`` Sixty !
It might as well be six hundred , '' sigh Diana .
`` I never can get further from home now than Charlottetown . ''
`` You 'll have to come to Four Winds .
It 's the most beautiful harbor on the Island .
There 's a little village call Glen St. Mary at it head , and Dr. David Blythe have be practice there for fifty year .
He be Gilbert 's great-uncle , you know .
He be go to retire , and Gilbert be to take over his practice .
Dr. Blythe be go to keep his house , though , so we shall have to find a habitation for ourselves .
I do n't know yet what it be , or where it will be in reality , but I have a little house o'dreams all furnish in my imagination -- a tiny , delightful castle in Spain . ''
`` Where be you go for your wed tour ? ''
ask Diana .
`` Nowhere .
Do n't look horrified , Diana dear .
You suggest Mrs. Harmon Andrews .
She , no doubt , will remark condescendingly that people who ca n't afford wed ` tower ' be real sensible not to take them ; and then she 'll remind me that Jane go to Europe for hers .
I want to spend MY honeymoon at Four Winds in my own dear house of dream . ''
`` And you 've decide not to have any bridesmaid ? ''
`` There be n't any one to have .
You and Phil and Priscilla and Jane all steal a march on me in the matter of marriage ; and Stella be teach in Vancouver .
I have no other ` kindred soul ' and I wo n't have a bridesmaid who be n't . ''
`` But you be go to wear a veil , be n't you ? ''
ask Diana , anxiously .
`` Yes , indeedy .
I should n't feel like a bride without one .
I remember tell Matthew , that even when he bring me to Green Gables , that I never expect to be a bride because I be so homely no one would ever want to marry me -- unless some foreign missionary do .
I have an idea then that foreign missionary could n't afford to be finicky in the matter of look if they want a girl to risk her life among cannibal .
You should have see the foreign missionary Priscilla marry .
He be a handsome and inscrutable a those daydream we once plan to marry ourselves , Diana ; he be the best dressed man I ever meet , and he rave over Priscilla 's ` ethereal , golden beauty . '
But of course there be no cannibal in Japan . ''
`` Your wedding dress be a dream , anyhow , '' sigh Diana rapturously .
`` You 'll look like a perfect queen in it -- you 're so tall and slender .
How DO you keep so slim , Anne ?
I 'm fatter than ever -- I 'll soon have no waist at all . ''
`` Stoutness and slimness seem to be matter of predestination , '' say Anne .
`` At all event , Mrs. Harmon Andrews ca n't say to you what she say to me when I come home from Summerside , ` Well , Anne , you 're just about as skinny a ever . '
It sound quite romantic to be ` slender , ' but ` skinny ' have a very different tang . ''
`` Mrs. Harmon have be talk about your trousseau .
She admit it 's as nice a Jane 's , although she say Jane marry a millionaire and you be only marry a ` poor young doctor without a cent to his name . ' ''
Anne laugh .
`` My dress ARE nice .
I love pretty thing .
I remember the first pretty dress I ever have -- the brown gloria Matthew give me for our school concert .
Before that everything I have be so ugly .
It seem to me that I step into a new world that night . ''
`` That be the night Gilbert recite ` Bingen on the Rhine , ' and look at you when he say , ` There 's another , NOT a sister . '
And you be so furious because he put your pink tissue rise in his breast pocket !
You do n't much imagine then that you would ever marry him . ''
`` Oh , well , that 's another instance of predestination , '' laugh Anne , a they go down the garret stair .
CHAPTER 2 THE HOUSE OF DREAMS There be more excitement in the air of Green Gables than there have ever be before in all it history .
Even Marilla be so excited that she could n't help show it -- which be little short of be phenomenal .
`` There 's never be a wedding in this house , '' she say , half apologetically , to Mrs. Rachel Lynde .
`` When I be a child I hear an old minister say that a house be not a real home until it have be consecrate by a birth , a wedding and a death .
We 've have death here -- my father and mother die here as well a Matthew ; and we 've even have a birth here .
Long ago , just after we move into this house , we have a marry hired man for a little while , and his wife have a baby here .
But there 's never be a wedding before .
It do seem so strange to think of Anne be marry .
In a way she just seem to me the little girl Matthew bring home here fourteen year ago .
I ca n't realize that she 's grow up .
I shall never forget what I felt when I saw Matthew bring in a GIRL .
I wonder what become of the boy we would have get if there have n't be a mistake .
I wonder what HIS fate be . ''
`` Well , it be a fortunate mistake , '' say Mrs. Rachel Lynde , `` though , mind you , there be a time I do n't think so -- that even I come up to see Anne and she treat u to such a scene .
Many thing have change since then , that 's what . ''
Mrs. Rachel sigh , and then brisk up again .
When wedding be in order Mrs. Rachel be ready to let the dead past bury it dead .
`` I 'm go to give Anne two of my cotton warp spread , '' she resume .
`` A tobacco-stripe one and an apple-leaf one .
She tell me they 're get to be real fashionable again .
Well , fashion or no fashion , I do n't believe there 's anything prettier for a spare-room bed than a nice apple-leaf spread , that 's what .
I must see about get them bleach .
I 've have them sew up in cotton bag ever since Thomas die , and no doubt they 're an awful color .
But there 's a month yet , and dew-bleaching will work wonder . ''
Only a month !
Marilla sigh and then say proudly : `` I 'm give Anne that half dozen braid rug I have in the garret .
I never suppose she 'd want them -- they 're so old-fashioned , and nobody seem to want anything but hook mat now .
But she ask me for them -- say she 'd rather have them than anything else for her floor .
They ARE pretty .
I make them of the nice rag , and braid them in stripe .
It be such company these last few winter .
And I 'll make her enough blue plum preserve to stock her jam closet for a year .
It seem real strange .
Those blue plum tree have n't even a blossom for three year , and I think they might as well be cut down .
And this last spring they be white , and such a crop of plum I never remember at Green Gables . ''
`` Well , thank goodness that Anne and Gilbert really be go to be marry after all .
It 's what I 've always pray for , '' say Mrs. Rachel , in the tone of one who be comfortably sure that her prayer have avail much .
`` It be a great relief to find out that she really do n't mean to take the Kingsport man .
He be rich , to be sure , and Gilbert be poor -- at least , to begin with ; but then he 's an Island boy . ''
`` He 's Gilbert Blythe , '' say Marilla contentedly .
Marilla would have die the death before she would have put into word the thought that be always in the background of her mind whenever she have look at Gilbert from his childhood up -- the thought that , have it not be for her own wilful pride long , long ago , he might have be HER son .
Marilla felt that , in some strange way , his marriage with Anne would put right that old mistake .
Good have come out of the evil of the ancient bitterness .
As for Anne herself , she be so happy that she almost felt frightened .
The god , so say the old superstition , do not like to behold too happy mortal .
It be certain , at least , that some human being do not .
Two of that ilk descend upon Anne one violet dusk and proceed to do what in them lay to prick the rainbow bubble of her satisfaction .
If she think she be get any particular prize in young Dr. Blythe , or if she imagine that he be still a infatuated with her a he might have be in his salad day , it be surely their duty to put the matter before her in another light .
Yet these two worthy lady be not enemy of Anne ; on the contrary , they be really quite fond of her , and would have defend her a their own young have anyone else attack her .
Human nature be not oblige to be consistent .
Mrs. Inglis -- nee Jane Andrews , to quote from the Daily Enterprise -- come with her mother and Mrs. Jasper Bell .
But in Jane the milk of human kindness have not be curdle by year of matrimonial bickering .
Her line have fall in pleasant place .
In spite of the fact -- a Mrs. Rachel Lynde would say -- that she have marry a millionaire , her marriage have be happy .
Wealth have not spoil her .
She be still the placid , amiable , pink-cheeked Jane of the old quartette , sympathise with her old chum 's happiness and a keenly interested in all the dainty detail of Anne 's trousseau a if it could rival her own silken and bejewel splendor .
Jane be not brilliant , and have probably never make a remark worth listen to in her life ; but she never say anything that would hurt anyone 's feeling -- which may be a negative talent but be likewise a rare and enviable one .
`` So Gilbert do n't go back on you after all , '' say Mrs. Harmon Andrews , contrive to convey an expression of surprise in her tone .
`` Well , the Blythes generally keep their word when they 've once pass it , no matter what happen .
Let me see -- you 're twenty-five , be n't you , Anne ?
When I be a girl twenty-five be the first corner .
But you look quite young .
Red-headed people always do . ''
`` Red hair be very fashionable now , '' say Anne , try to smile , but speak rather coldly .
Life have develop in her a sense of humor which help her over many difficulty ; but a yet nothing have avail to steel her against a reference to her hair .
`` So it be -- so it be , '' concede Mrs. Harmon .
`` There 's no tell what queer freaks fashion will take .
Well , Anne , your thing be very pretty , and very suitable to your position in life , be n't they , Jane ?
I hope you 'll be very happy .
You have my best wish , I 'm sure .
A long engagement do n't often turn out well .
But , of course , in your case it could n't be help . ''
`` Gilbert look very young for a doctor .
I 'm afraid people wo n't have much confidence in him , '' say Mrs. Jasper Bell gloomily .
Then she shut her mouth tightly , a if she have say what she consider it her duty to say and hold her conscience clear .
She belong to the type which always have a stringy black feather in it hat and straggle lock of hair on it neck .
Anne 's surface pleasure in her pretty bridal thing be temporarily shadow ; but the deep of happiness below could not thus be disturb ; and the little sting of Mesdames Bell and Andrews be forget when Gilbert come later , and they wander down to the birch of the brook , which have be sapling when Anne have come to Green Gables , but be now tall , ivory column in a fairy palace of twilight and star .
In their shadow Anne and Gilbert talk in lover-fashion of their new home and their new life together .
`` I 've find a nest for u , Anne . ''
`` Oh , where ?
Not right in the village , I hope .
I would n't like that altogether . ''
`` No .
There be no house to be have in the village .
This be a little white house on the harbor shore , half way between Glen St. Mary and Four Winds Point .
It 's a little out of the way , but when we get a ` phone in that wo n't matter so much .
The situation be beautiful .
It look to the sunset and have the great blue harbor before it .
The sand-dunes be n't very far away -- the sea wind blow over them and the sea spray drench them . ''
`` But the house itself , Gilbert , -- OUR first home ?
What be it like ? ''
`` Not very large , but large enough for u .
There 's a splendid living room with a fireplace in it downstairs , and a dining room that look out on the harbor , and a little room that will do for my office .
It be about sixty year old -- the old house in Four Winds .
But it have be keep in pretty good repair , and be all do over about fifteen year ago -- shingle , plaster and re-floored .
It be well build to begin with .
I understand that there be some romantic story connect with it building , but the man I rent it from do n't know it . ''
`` He say Captain Jim be the only one who could spin that old yarn now . ''
`` Who be Captain Jim ? ''
`` The keeper of the lighthouse on Four Winds Point .
You 'll love that Four Winds light , Anne .
It 's a revolve one , and it flash like a magnificent star through the twilight .
We can see it from our living room window and our front door . ''
`` Who own the house ? ''
`` Well , it 's the property of the Glen St. Mary Presbyterian Church now , and I rent it from the trustee .
But it belong until lately to a very old lady , Miss Elizabeth Russell .
She die last spring , and a she have no near relatives she leave her property to the Glen St. Mary Church .
Her furniture be still in the house , and I buy most of it -- for a mere song you might say , because it be all so old-fashioned that the trustee despair of sell it .
Glen St. Mary folk prefer plush brocade and sideboard with mirror and ornamentation , I fancy .
But Miss Russell 's furniture be very good and I feel sure you 'll like it , Anne . ''
`` So far , good , '' say Anne , nod cautious approval .
`` But , Gilbert , people can not live by furniture alone .
You have n't yet mention one very important thing .
Are there TREES about this house ? ''
`` Heaps of them , oh , dryad !
There be a big grove of fir tree behind it , two row of Lombardy poplar down the lane , and a ring of white birch around a very delightful garden .
Our front door open right into the garden , but there be another entrance -- a little gate hung between two fir .
The hinge be on one trunk and the catch on the other .
Their bough form an arch overhead . ''
`` Oh , I 'm so glad !
I could n't live where there be no tree -- something vital in me would starve .
Well , after that , there 's no use ask you if there 's a brook anywhere near .
THAT would be expect too much . ''
`` But there IS a brook -- and it actually cut across one corner of the garden . ''
`` Then , '' say Anne , with a long sigh of supreme satisfaction , `` this house you have find IS my house of dream and none other . ''
CHAPTER 3 THE LAND OF DREAMS AMONG `` Have you make up your mind who you 're go to have to the wedding , Anne ? ''
ask Mrs. Rachel Lynde , a she hemstitch table napkin industriously .
`` It 's time your invitation be send , even if they be to be only informal one . ''
`` I do n't mean to have very many , '' say Anne .
`` We just want those we love best to see u marry .
Gilbert 's people , and Mr. and Mrs. Allan , and Mr. and Mrs. Harrison . ''
`` There be a time when you 'd hardly have number Mr. Harrison among your dear friend , '' say Marilla drily .
`` Well , I be n't VERY strongly attract to him at our first meeting , '' acknowledge Anne , with a laugh over the recollection .
`` But Mr. Harrison have improve on acquaintance , and Mrs. Harrison be really a dear .
Then , of course , there be Miss Lavendar and Paul . ''
`` Have they decide to come to the Island this summer ?
I think they be go to Europe . ''
`` They change their mind when I write them I be go to be marry .
I have a letter from Paul today .
He say he MUST come to my wedding , no matter what happen to Europe . ''
`` That child always idolise you , '' remark Mrs. Rachel .
`` That ` child ' be a young man of nineteen now , Mrs. Lynde . ''
`` How time do fly ! ''
be Mrs. Lynde 's brilliant and original response .
`` Charlotta the Fourth may come with them .
She send word by Paul that she would come if her husband would let her .
I wonder if she still wear those enormous blue bow , and whether her husband call her Charlotta or Leonora .
I should love to have Charlotta at my wedding .
Charlotta and I be at a wedding long syne .
They expect to be at Echo Lodge next week .
Then there be Phil and the Reverend Jo -- '' `` It sound awful to hear you speak of a minister like that , Anne , '' say Mrs. Rachel severely .
`` His wife call him that . ''
`` She should have more respect for his holy office , then , '' retort Mrs. Rachel .
`` I 've hear you criticise minister pretty sharply yourself , '' tease Anne .
`` Yes , but I do it reverently , '' protest Mrs. Lynde .
`` You never hear me NICKNAME a minister . ''
Anne smother a smile .
`` Well , there be Diana and Fred and little Fred and Small Anne Cordelia -- and Jane Andrews .
I wish I could have Miss Stacey and Aunt Jamesina and Priscilla and Stella .
But Stella be in Vancouver , and Pris be in Japan , and Miss Stacey be marry in California , and Aunt Jamesina have go to India to explore her daughter 's mission field , in spite of her horror of snake .
It 's really dreadful -- the way people get scatter over the globe . ''
`` The Lord never intend it , that 's what , '' say Mrs. Rachel authoritatively .
`` In my young day people grow up and married and settle down where they be bear , or pretty near it .
Thank goodness you 've stick to the Island , Anne .
I be afraid Gilbert would insist on rush off to the end of the earth when he get through college , and drag you with him . ''
`` If everybody stay where he be born place would soon be fill up , Mrs. Lynde . ''
`` Oh , I 'm not go to argue with you , Anne .
I be not a B.A . .
What time of the day be the ceremony to be ? ''
`` We have decide on noon -- high noon , a the society reporter say .
That will give u time to catch the evening train to Glen St. Mary . ''
`` And you 'll be marry in the parlor ? ''
`` No -- not unless it rain .
We mean to be marry in the orchard -- with the blue sky over u and the sunshine around u .
Do you know when and where I 'd like to be marry , if I could ?
It would be at dawn -- a June dawn , with a glorious sunrise , and roses bloom in the garden ; and I would slip down and meet Gilbert and we would go together to the heart of the beech wood , -- and there , under the green arch that would be like a splendid cathedral , we would be marry . ''
Marilla sniff scornfully and Mrs. Lynde look shocked .
`` But that would be terrible queer , Anne .
Why , it would n't really seem legal .
And what would Mrs. Harmon Andrews say ? ''
`` Ah , there 's the rub , '' sigh Anne .
`` There be so many thing in life we can not do because of the fear of what Mrs. Harmon Andrews would say . ''
Tis true , 't be pity , and pity 't be , 't be true . '
What delightful thing we might do be it not for Mrs. Harmon Andrews ! ''
`` By time , Anne , I do n't feel quite sure that I understand you altogether , '' complain Mrs. Lynde .
`` Anne be always romantic , you know , '' say Marilla apologetically .
`` Well , marry life will most likely cure her of that , '' Mrs. Rachel respond comfortingly .
Anne laugh and slip away to Lover 's Lane , where Gilbert find her ; and neither of them seem to entertain much fear , or hope , that their married life would cure them of romance .
The Echo Lodge people come over the next week , and Green Gables buzz with the delight of them .
Miss Lavendar have change so little that the three year since her last Island visit might have be a watch in the night ; but Anne gasp with amazement over Paul .
Could this splendid six foot of manhood be the little Paul of Avonlea schooldays ?
`` You really make me feel old , Paul , '' say Anne .
`` Why , I have to look up to you ! ''
`` You 'll never grow old , Teacher , '' say Paul .
`` You be one of the fortunate mortal who have find and drink from the Fountain of Youth , -- you and Mother Lavendar .
See here !
When you 're married I WO N'T call you Mrs. Blythe .
To me you 'll always be ` Teacher ' -- the teacher of the best lesson I ever learn .
I want to show you something . ''
The `` something '' be a pocketbook full of poem .
Paul have put some of his beautiful fancy into verse , and magazine editor have not be as unappreciative a they be sometimes suppose to be .
Anne read Paul 's poem with real delight .
They be full of charm and promise .
`` You 'll be famous yet , Paul .
I always dream of have one famous pupil .
He be to be a college president -- but a great poet would be even well .
Some day I 'll be able to boast that I whip the distinguish Paul Irving .
But then I never do whip you , do I , Paul ?
What an opportunity lose !
I think I keep you in at recess , however . ''
`` You may be famous yourself , Teacher .
I 've see a good deal of your work these last three year . ''
`` No .
I know what I can do .
I can write pretty , fanciful little sketch that child love and editor send welcome cheque for .
But I can do nothing big .
My only chance for earthly immortality be a corner in your Memoirs . ''
Charlotta the Fourth have discard the blue bow but her freckle be not noticeably less .
`` I never do think I 'd come down to marry a Yankee , Miss Shirley , ma'am , '' she say .
`` But you never know what 's before you , and it be n't his fault .
He be bear that way . ''
`` You 're a Yankee yourself , Charlotta , since you 've marry one . ''
`` Miss Shirley , ma'am , I 'm NOT !
And I would n't be if I be to marry a dozen Yankees !
Tom 's kind of nice .
And besides , I think I 'd better not be too hard to please , for I might n't get another chance .
Tom do n't drink and he do n't growl because he have to work between meal , and when all 's say and do I 'm satisfied , Miss Shirley , ma'am . ''
`` Does he call you Leonora ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Goodness , no , Miss Shirley , ma'am .
I would n't know who he mean if he do .
Of course , when we get marry he have to say , ' I take thee , Leonora , ' and I declare to you , Miss Shirley , ma'am , I 've have the most dreadful feeling ever since that it be n't me he be talk to and I have n't be rightly marry at all .
And so you 're go to be marry yourself , Miss Shirley , ma'am ?
I always think I 'd like to marry a doctor .
It would be so handy when the child have measles and croup .
Tom be only a bricklayer , but he 's real good-tempered .
When I say to him , say I , ` Tom , can I go to Miss Shirley 's wedding ?
I mean to go anyhow , but I 'd like to have your consent , ' he just say , ` Suit yourself , Charlotta , and you 'll suit me . '
That 's a real pleasant kind of husband to have , Miss Shirley , ma'am . ''
Philippa and her Reverend Jo arrive at Green Gables the day before the wedding .
Anne and Phil have a rapturous meeting which presently simmer down to a cosy , confidential chat over all that have be and be about to be .
`` Queen Anne , you 're as queenly a ever .
I 've get fearfully thin since the baby come .
I 'm not half so good-looking ; but I think Jo like it .
There 's not such a contrast between u , you see .
And oh , it 's perfectly magnificent that you 're go to marry Gilbert .
Roy Gardner would n't have do at all , at all .
I can see that now , though I be horribly disappoint at the time .
You know , Anne , you do treat Roy very badly . ''
`` He have recover , I understand , '' smile Anne .
`` Oh , yes .
He be married and his wife be a sweet little thing and they 're perfectly happy .
Everything work together for good .
Jo and the Bible say that , and they be pretty good authority . ''
`` Are Alec and Alonzo marry yet ? ''
`` Alec be , but Alonzo be n't .
How those dear old day at Patty 's Place come back when I 'm talk to you , Anne !
What fun we have ! ''
`` Have you be to Patty 's Place lately ? ''
`` Oh , yes , I go often .
Miss Patty and Miss Maria still sit by the fireplace and knit .
And that remind me -- we 've bring you a wed gift from them , Anne .
Guess what it be . ''
`` I never could .
How do they know I be go to be marry ? ''
`` Oh , I tell them .
I be there last week .
And they be so interested .
Two day ago Miss Patty write me a note ask me to call ; and then she ask if I would take her gift to you .
What would you wish most from Patty 's Place , Anne ? ''
`` You ca n't mean that Miss Patty have send me her china dog ? ''
`` Go up head .
They 're in my trunk this very moment .
And I 've a letter for you .
Wait a moment and I 'll get it . ''
`` Dear Miss Shirley , '' Miss Patty have write , `` Maria and I be very much interested in hear of your approach nuptials .
We send you our best wish .
Maria and I have never marry , but we have no objection to other people do so .
We be send you the china dog .
I intend to leave them to you in my will , because you seem to have sincere affection for them .
But Maria and I expect to live a good while yet -LRB- D.V . -RRB- , so I have decide to give you the dog while you be young .
You will not have forget that Gog look to the right and Magog to the left . ''
`` Just fancy those lovely old dog sit by the fireplace in my house of dream , '' say Anne rapturously .
`` I never expect anything so delightful . ''
That even Green Gables hum with preparation for the following day ; but in the twilight Anne slip away .
She have a little pilgrimage to make on this last day of her girlhood and she must make it alone .
She go to Matthew 's grave , in the little poplar-shaded Avonlea graveyard , and there keep a silent tryst with old memory and immortal love .
`` How glad Matthew would be tomorrow if he be here , '' she whisper .
`` But I believe he do know and be glad of it -- somewhere else .
I 've read somewhere that ` our dead be never dead until we have forget them . '
Matthew will never be dead to me , for I can never forget him . ''
She leave on his grave the flower she have bring and walk slowly down the long hill .
It be a gracious evening , full of delectable light and shadow .
In the west be a sky of mackerel cloud -- crimson and amber-tinted , with long strip of apple-green sky between .
Beyond be the glimmer radiance of a sunset sea , and the ceaseless voice of many water come up from the tawny shore .
All around her , lie in the fine , beautiful country silence , be the hill and field and wood she have know and love so long .
`` History repeat itself , '' say Gilbert , join her a she pass the Blythe gate .
`` Do you remember our first walk down this hill , Anne -- our first walk together anywhere , for that matter ? ''
`` I be come home in the twilight from Matthew 's grave -- and you come out of the gate ; and I swallow the pride of year and speak to you . ''
`` And all heaven open before me , '' supplement Gilbert .
`` From that moment I look forward to tomorrow .
When I leave you at your gate that night and walk home I be the happy boy in the world .
Anne have forgive me . ''
`` I think you have the most to forgive .
I be an ungrateful little wretch -- and after you have really save my life that day on the pond , too .
How I loathe that load of obligation at first !
I do n't deserve the happiness that have come to me . ''
Gilbert laugh and clasp tight the girlish hand that wear his ring .
Anne 's engagement ring be a circlet of pearl .
She have refuse to wear a diamond .
`` I 've never really liked diamond since I find out they be n't the lovely purple I have dream .
They will always suggest my old disappointment . ''
`` But pearl be for tear , the old legend say , '' Gilbert have object .
`` I 'm not afraid of that .
And tear can be happy as well a sad .
My very happy moment have be when I have tear in my eye -- when Marilla tell me I might stay at Green Gables -- when Matthew give me the first pretty dress I ever have -- when I hear that you be go to recover from the fever .
So give me pearl for our troth ring , Gilbert , and I 'll willingly accept the sorrow of life with it joy . ''
But tonight our lover think only of joy and never of sorrow .
For the morrow be their wedding day , and their house of dream await them on the misty , purple shore of Four Winds Harbor .
CHAPTER 4 THE FIRST BRIDE OF GREEN GABLES Anne waken on the morning of her wedding day to find the sunshine winking in at the window of the little porch gable and a September breeze frolic with her curtain .
`` I 'm so glad the sun will shine on me , '' she think happily .
She recall the first morning she have waken in that little porch room , when the sunshine have creep in on her through the blossom-drift of the old Snow Queen .
That have not be a happy wakening , for it bring with it the bitter disappointment of the precede night .
But since then the little room have be endear and consecrate by year of happy childhood dream and maiden vision .
To it she have come back joyfully after all her absence ; at it window she have kneel through that night of bitter agony when she believe Gilbert dying , and by it she have sit in speechless happiness the night of her betrothal .
Many vigil of joy and some of sorrow have be keep there ; and today she must leave it forever .
Henceforth it would be hers no more ; fifteen-year-old Dora be to inherit it when she have go .
Nor do Anne wish it otherwise ; the little room be sacred to youth and girlhood -- to the past that be to close today before the chapter of wifehood open .
Green Gables be a busy and joyous house that forenoon .
Diana arrive early , with little Fred and Small Anne Cordelia , to lend a hand .
Davy and Dora , the Green Gables twin , whisk the baby off to the garden .
`` Do n't let Small Anne Cordelia spoil her clothes , '' warn Diana anxiously .
`` You need n't be afraid to trust her with Dora , '' say Marilla .
`` That child be more sensible and careful than most of the mother I 've know .
She 's really a wonder in some way .
Not much like that other harum-scarum I bring up . ''
Marilla smile across her chicken salad at Anne .
It might even be suspect that she like the harum-scarum best after all .
`` Those twin be real nice child , '' say Mrs. Rachel , when she be sure they be out of earshot .
`` Dora be so womanly and helpful , and Davy be develop into a very smart boy .
He be n't the holy terror for mischief he use to be . ''
`` I never be so distract in my life a I be the first six month he be here , '' acknowledge Marilla .
`` After that I suppose I get use to him .
He 's take a great notion to farm lately , and want me to let him try run the farm next year .
I may , for Mr. Barry do n't think he 'll want to rent it much longer , and some new arrangement will have to be make . ''
`` Well , you certainly have a lovely day for your wedding , Anne , '' say Diana , a she slip a voluminous apron over her silken array .
`` You could n't have have a finer one if you 'd order it from Eaton 's . ''
`` Indeed , there 's too much money go out of this Island to that same Eaton 's , '' say Mrs. Lynde indignantly .
She have strong view on the subject of octopus-like department store , and never lose an opportunity of air them .
`` And a for those catalogue of theirs , they 're the Avonlea girl ' Bible now , that 's what .
They pore over them on Sundays instead of study the Holy Scriptures . ''
`` Well , they 're splendid to amuse child with , '' say Diana .
`` Fred and Small Anne look at the picture by the hour . '' ''
I amuse ten child without the aid of Eaton 's catalogue , '' say Mrs. Rachel severely .
`` Come , you two , do n't quarrel over Eaton 's catalogue , '' say Anne gaily .
`` This be my day of day , you know .
I 'm so happy I want every one else to be happy , too . ''
`` I 'm sure I hope your happiness will last , child , '' sigh Mrs. Rachel .
She do hope it truly , and believe it , but she be afraid it be in the nature of a challenge to Providence to flaunt your happiness too openly .
Anne , for her own good , must be tone down a trifle .
But it be a happy and beautiful bride who come down the old , homespun-carpeted stair that September noon -- the first bride of Green Gables , slender and shining-eyed , in the mist of her maiden veil , with her arm full of rose .
Gilbert , wait for her in the hall below , look up at her with adoring eye .
She be his at last , this evasive , long-sought Anne , win after year of patient waiting .
It be to him she be come in the sweet surrender of the bride .
Was he worthy of her ?
Could he make her as happy a he hop ?
If he fail her -- if he could not measure up to her standard of manhood -- then , a she hold out her hand , their eye meet and all doubt be sweep away in a glad certainty .
They belong to each other ; and , no matter what life might hold for them , it could never alter that .
Their happiness be in each other 's keep and both be unafraid .
They be marry in the sunshine of the old orchard , circle by the loving and kindly face of long-familiar friend .
Mr. Allan marry them , and the Reverend Jo make what Mrs. Rachel Lynde afterwards pronounce to be the `` most beautiful wedding prayer '' she have ever hear .
Birds do not often sing in September , but one sang sweetly from some hidden bough while Gilbert and Anne repeat their deathless vow .
Anne hear it and thrill to it ; Gilbert hear it , and wonder only that all the bird in the world have not burst into jubilant song ; Paul hear it and later write a lyric about it which be one of the most admired in his first volume of verse ; Charlotta the Fourth hear it and be blissfully sure it mean good luck for her adored Miss Shirley .
The bird sang until the ceremony be end and then it wind up with one mad little , glad little trill .
Never have the old gray-green house among it enfolding orchard know a blither , merry afternoon .
All the old jest and quip that must have do duty at wedding since Eden be serve up , and seem a new and brilliant and mirth-provoking a if they have never be utter before .
Laughter and joy have their way ; and when Anne and Gilbert leave to catch the Carmody train , with Paul a driver , the twin be ready with rice and old shoe , in the throwing of which Charlotta the Fourth and Mr. Harrison bore a valiant part .
Marilla stand at the gate and watch the carriage out of sight down the long lane with it bank of goldenrod .
Anne turn at it end to wave her last good-bye .
She be go -- Green Gables be her home no more ; Marilla 's face look very gray and old a she turn to the house which Anne have fill for fourteen year , and even in her absence , with light and life .
But Diana and her small fry , the Echo Lodge people and the Allans , have stay to help the two old lady over the loneliness of the first evening ; and they contrive to have a quietly pleasant little supper time , sit long around the table and chat over all the detail of the day .
While they be sit there Anne and Gilbert be alight from the train at Glen St. Mary .
CHAPTER 5 THE HOME COMING Dr. David Blythe have send his horse and buggy to meet them , and the urchin who have bring it slip away with a sympathetic grin , leave them to the delight of drive alone to their new home through the radiant evening .
Anne never forget the loveliness of the view that break upon them when they have drive over the hill behind the village .
Her new home could not yet be see ; but before her lay Four Winds Harbor like a great , shin mirror of rise and silver .
Far down , she saw it entrance between the bar of sand dune on one side and a steep , high , grim , red sandstone cliff on the other .
Beyond the bar the sea , calm and austere , dream in the afterlight .
The little fishing village , nestle in the cove where the sand-dunes meet the harbor shore , look like a great opal in the haze .
The sky over them be like a jewelled cup from which the dusk be pour ; the air be crisp with the compel tang of the sea , and the whole landscape be infuse with the subtlety of a sea evening .
A few dim sail drift along the darkening , fir-clad harbor shore .
A bell be ring from the tower of a little white church on the far side ; mellowly and dreamily sweet , the chime float across the water blent with the moan of the sea .
The great revolving light on the cliff at the channel flash warm and golden against the clear northern sky , a trembling , quiver star of good hope .
Far out along the horizon be the crinkled gray ribbon of a passing steamer 's smoke .
`` Oh , beautiful , beautiful , '' murmur Anne .
`` I shall love Four Winds , Gilbert .
Where be our house ? ''
`` We ca n't see it yet -- the belt of birch run up from that little cove hide it .
It 's about two mile from Glen St. Mary , and there 's another mile between it and the light-house .
We wo n't have many neighbor , Anne .
There 's only one house near u and I do n't know who live in it .
Shall you be lonely when I 'm away ? ''
`` Not with that light and that loveliness for company .
Who live in that house , Gilbert ? ''
`` I do n't know .
It do n't look -- exactly -- a if the occupant would be kindred spirit , Anne , do it ? ''
The house be a large , substantial affair , paint such a vivid green that the landscape seem quite fade by contrast .
There be an orchard behind it , and a nicely kept lawn before it , but , somehow , there be a certain bareness about it .
Perhaps it neatness be responsible for this ; the whole establishment , house , barn , orchard , garden , lawn and lane , be so starkly neat .
`` It do n't seem probable that anyone with that taste in paint could be VERY kindred , '' acknowledge Anne , `` unless it be an accident -- like our blue hall .
I feel certain there be no child there , at least .
It 's even neat than the old Copp place on the Tory road , and I never expect to see anything neat than that . ''
They have not meet anybody on the moist , red road that wind along the harbor shore .
But just before they come to the belt of birch which hide their home , Anne saw a girl who be drive a flock of snow-white goose along the crest of a velvety green hill on the right .
Great , scatter fir grow along it .
Between their trunk one saw glimpse of yellow harvest field , gleam of golden sand-hills , and bit of blue sea .
The girl be tall and wear a dress of pale blue print .
She walk with a certain springiness of step and erectness of bearing .
She and her geese come out of the gate at the foot of the hill a Anne and Gilbert pass .
She stand with her hand on the fastening of the gate , and look steadily at them , with an expression that hardly attain to interest , but do not descend to curiosity .
It seem to Anne , for a fleeting moment , that there be even a veiled hint of hostility in it .
But it be the girl 's beauty which make Anne give a little gasp -- a beauty so mark that it must have attract attention anywhere .
She be hatless , but heavy braid of burnished hair , the hue of ripe wheat , be twist about her head like a coronet ; her eye be blue and star-like ; her figure , in it plain print gown , be magnificent ; and her lip be as crimson a the bunch of blood-red poppy she wear at her belt .
`` Gilbert , who be the girl we have just pass ? ''
ask Anne , in a low voice .
`` I do n't notice any girl , '' say Gilbert , who have eye only for his bride .
`` She be stand by that gate -- no , do n't look back .
She be still watch u .
I never saw such a beautiful face . ''
`` I do n't remember see any very handsome girl while I be here .
There be some pretty girls up at the Glen , but I hardly think they could be call beautiful . ''
`` This girl be .
You ca n't have see her , or you would remember her .
Nobody could forget her .
I never saw such a face except in picture .
And her hair !
It make me think of Browning 's ` cord of gold ' and ` gorgeous snake ' ! ''
`` Probably she 's some visitor in Four Winds -- likely some one from that big summer hotel over the harbor . ''
`` She wear a white apron and she be drive geese . ''
`` She might do that for amusement .
Look , Anne -- there 's our house . ''
Anne look and forget for a time the girl with the splendid , resentful eye .
The first glimpse of her new home be a delight to eye and spirit -- it look so like a big , creamy seashell strand on the harbor shore .
The row of tall Lombardy poplars down it lane stand out in stately , purple silhouette against the sky .
Behind it , shelter it garden from the too keen breath of sea wind , be a cloudy fir wood , in which the wind might make all kind of weird and haunting music .
Like all wood , it seem to be hold and enfold secret in it recess , -- secret whose charm be only to be win by enter in and patiently seek .
Outwardly , dark green arm keep them inviolate from curious or indifferent eye .
The night wind be begin their wild dance beyond the bar and the fishing hamlet across the harbor be gemmed with light a Anne and Gilbert drive up the poplar lane .
The door of the little house open , and a warm glow of firelight flicker out into the dusk .
Gilbert lift Anne from the buggy and lead her into the garden , through the little gate between the ruddy-tipped fir , up the trim , red path to the sandstone step .
`` Welcome home , '' he whisper , and hand in hand they step over the threshold of their house of dream .
CHAPTER 6 CAPTAIN JIM `` Old Doctor Dave '' and `` Mrs . Doctor Dave '' have come down to the little house to greet the bride and groom .
Doctor Dave be a big , jolly , white-whiskered old fellow , and Mrs . Doctor be a trim rosy-cheeked , silver-haired little lady who take Anne at once to her heart , literally and figuratively .
`` I 'm so glad to see you , dear .
You must be real tire .
We 've get a bite of supper ready , and Captain Jim bring up some trout for you .
Captain Jim -- where be you ?
Oh , he 's slip out to see to the horse , I suppose .
Come upstairs and take your thing off . ''
Anne look about her with bright , appreciative eye a she follow Mrs . Doctor Dave upstairs .
She like the appearance of her new home very much .
It seem to have the atmosphere of Green Gables and the flavor of her old tradition .
`` I think I would have find Miss Elizabeth Russell a ` kindred spirit , ' '' she murmur when she be alone in her room .
There be two window in it ; the dormer one look out on the low harbor and the sand-bar and the Four Winds light .
`` A magic casement open on the foam Of perilous sea in fairy land forlorn , '' quote Anne softly .
The gable window give a view of a little harvest-hued valley through which a brook ran .
Half a mile up the brook be the only house in sight -- an old , rambling , gray one surround by huge willow through which it window peer , like shy , seek eye , into the dusk .
Anne wonder who live there ; they would be her near neighbor and she hop they would be nice .
She suddenly find herself thinking of the beautiful girl with the white goose .
`` Gilbert think she do n't belong here , '' muse Anne , `` but I feel sure she do .
There be something about her that make her part of the sea and the sky and the harbor .
Four Winds be in her blood . ''
When Anne go downstairs Gilbert be stand before the fireplace talk to a stranger .
Both turn a Anne enter .
`` Anne , this be Captain Boyd .
Captain Boyd , my wife . ''
It be the first time Gilbert have say `` my wife '' to anybody but Anne , and he narrowly escape burst with the pride of it .
The old captain hold out a sinewy hand to Anne ; they smile at each other and be friend from that moment .
Kindred spirit flash recognition to kindred spirit .
`` I 'm right down please to meet you , Mistress Blythe ; and I hope you 'll be as happy a the first bride be who come here .
I ca n't wish you no good than THAT .
But your husband do n't introduce me jest exactly right .
` Captain Jim ' be my week-a-day name and you might as well begin a you 're sartain to end up -- call me that .
You sartainly be a nice little bride , Mistress Blythe .
Looking at you sorter make me feel that I 've jest be marry myself . ''
Amid the laughter that follow Mrs . Doctor Dave urge Captain Jim to stay and have supper with them .
`` Thank you kindly .
` Twill be a real treat , Mistress Doctor .
I mostly have to eat my meal alone , with the reflection of my ugly old phiz in a looking-glass opposite for company .
'T be n't often I have a chance to sit down with two such sweet , purty lady . ''
Captain Jim 's compliment may look very bald on paper , but he pay them with such a gracious , gentle deference of tone and look that the woman upon whom they be bestow felt that she be be offer a queen 's tribute in a kingly fashion .
Captain Jim be a high-souled , simple-minded old man , with eternal youth in his eye and heart .
He have a tall , rather ungainly figure , somewhat stoop , yet suggestive of great strength and endurance ; a clean-shaven face deeply line and bronze ; a thick mane of iron-gray hair fall quite to his shoulder , and a pair of remarkably blue , deep-set eye , which sometimes twinkle and sometimes dream , and sometimes look out seaward with a wistful quest in them , a of one seek something precious and lose .
Anne be to learn one day what it be for which Captain Jim look .
It could not be deny that Captain Jim be a homely man .
His spare jaw , rugged mouth , and square brow be not fashion on the line of beauty ; and he have pass through many hardship and sorrow which have mark his body as well a his soul ; but though at first sight Anne think him plain she never think anything more about it -- the spirit shin through that rugged tenement beautify it so wholly .
They gather gaily around the supper table .
The hearth fire banish the chill of the September evening , but the window of the dining room be open and sea breeze enter at their own sweet will .
The view be magnificent , take in the harbor and the sweep of low , purple hill beyond .
The table be heap with Mrs . Doctor 's delicacy but the piece de resistance be undoubtedly the big platter of sea trout .
`` Thought they 'd be sorter tasty after travel , '' say Captain Jim .
`` They 're fresh a trout can be , Mistress Blythe .
Two hour ago they be swim in the Glen Pond . ''
`` Who be attend to the light tonight , Captain Jim ? ''
ask Doctor Dave .
`` Nephew Alec .
He understand it as well a I do .
Well , now , I 'm real glad you ask me to stay to supper .
I 'm proper hungry -- do n't have much of a dinner today . ''
`` I believe you half starve yourself most of the time down at that light , '' say Mrs . Doctor Dave severely .
`` You wo n't take the trouble to get up a decent meal . ''
`` Oh , I do , Mistress Doctor , I do , '' protest Captain Jim .
`` Why , I live like a king gen ` rally .
Last night I be up to the Glen and take home two pound of steak .
I mean to have a spanking good dinner today . ''
`` And what happen to the steak ? ''
ask Mrs . Doctor Dave .
`` Did you lose it on the way home ? ''
`` No . ''
Captain Jim look sheepish .
`` Just at bedtime a poor , ornery sort of dog come along and ask for a night 's lodging .
Guess he belong to some of the fisherman ` long shore .
I could n't turn the poor cur out -- he have a sore foot .
So I shut him in the porch , with an old bag to lie on , and go to bed .
But somehow I could n't sleep .
Come to think it over , I sorter remember that the dog look hungry . ''
`` And you get up and give him that steak -- ALL that steak , '' say Mrs . Doctor Dave , with a kind of triumphant reproof .
`` Well , there be n't anything else TO give him , '' say Captain Jim deprecatingly .
`` Nothing a dog 'd care for , that be .
I reckon he WAS hungry , for he make about two bite of it .
I have a fine sleep the rest of the night but my dinner have to be sorter scanty -- potato and point , a you might say .
The dog , he light out for home this morning .
I reckon HE be n't a vegetarian . ''
`` The idea of starve yourself for a worthless dog ! ''
sniffed Mrs . Doctor .
`` You do n't know but he may be worth a lot to somebody , '' protest Captain Jim .
`` He do n't LOOK of much account , but you ca n't go by look in jedging a dog .
Like meself , he might be a real beauty inside .
The First Mate do n't approve of him , I 'll allow .
His language be right down forcible .
But the First Mate be prejudice .
No use in take a cat 's opinion of a dog .
` Tennyrate , I lose my dinner , so this nice spread in this dee-lightful company be real pleasant .
It 's a great thing to have good neighbor . ''
`` Who live in the house among the willow up the brook ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Mrs. Dick Moore , '' say Captain Jim -- `` and her husband , '' he add , a if by way of an afterthought .
Anne smile , and deduce a mental picture of Mrs. Dick Moore from Captain Jim 's way of put it ; evidently a second Mrs. Rachel Lynde .
`` You have n't many neighbor , Mistress Blythe , '' Captain Jim go on .
`` This side of the harbor be mighty thinly settle .
Most of the land belong to Mr. Howard up yander past the Glen , and he rent it out for pasture .
The other side of the harbor , now , be thick with folk -- ` specially MacAllisters .
There 's a whole colony of MacAllisters you ca n't throw a stone but you hit one .
I be talk to old Leon Blacquiere the other day .
He 's be work on the harbor all summer .
` Dey 're nearly all MacAllisters over thar , ' he tell me .
` Dare 's Neil MacAllister and Sandy MacAllister and William MacAllister and Alec MacAllister and Angus MacAllister -- and I believe dare 's de Devil MacAllister . ' ''
`` There be nearly as many Elliotts and Crawfords , '' say Doctor Dave , after the laughter have subside .
`` You know , Gilbert , we folk on this side of Four Winds have an old saying -- ` From the conceit of the Elliotts , the pride of the MacAllisters , and the vainglory of the Crawfords , good Lord deliver u . ' ''
`` There 's a plenty of fine people among them , though , '' say Captain Jim .
`` I sail with William Crawford for many a year , and for courage and endurance and truth that man have n't an equal .
They 've get brain over on that side of Four Winds .
Mebbe that 's why this side be sorter incline to pick on 'em .
Strange , ai n't it , how folk seem to resent anyone be bear a mite cleverer than they be . ''
Doctor Dave , who have a forty year ' feud with the over-harbor people , laugh and subside .
`` Who live in that brilliant emerald house about half a mile up the road ? ''
ask Gilbert .
Captain Jim smile delightedly .
`` Miss Cornelia Bryant .
She 'll likely be over to see you soon , see you 're Presbyterians .
If you be Methodists she would n't come at all .
Cornelia have a holy horror of Methodists . ''
`` She 's quite a character , '' chuckle Doctor Dave .
`` A most inveterate man-hater ! ''
`` Sour grape ? ''
query Gilbert , laugh .
`` No , 't be n't sour grape , '' answer Captain Jim seriously .
`` Cornelia could have have her pick when she be young .
Even yet she 's only to say the word to see the old widower jump .
She jest seem to have be bear with a sort of chronic spite agin men and Methodists .
She 's get the bitter tongue and the kind heart in Four Winds .
Wherever there 's any trouble , that woman be there , do everything to help in the tender way .
She never say a harsh word about another woman , and if she like to card u poor scalawag of men down I reckon our tough old hide can stand it . ''
`` She always speak well of you , Captain Jim , '' say Mrs . Doctor .
`` Yes , I 'm afraid so .
I do n't half like it .
It make me feel a if there must be something sorter unnateral about me . ''
CHAPTER 7 THE SCHOOLMASTER 'S BRIDE `` Who be the first bride who come to this house , Captain Jim ? ''
Anne ask , a they sit around the fireplace after supper .
`` Was she a part of the story I 've hear be connect with this house ? ''
ask Gilbert .
`` Somebody tell me you could tell it , Captain Jim . ''
`` Well , yes , I know it .
I reckon I 'm the only person live in Four Winds now that can remember the schoolmaster 's bride a she be when she come to the Island .
She 's be dead this thirty year , but she be one of them woman you never forget . ''
`` Tell u the story , '' plead Anne .
`` I want to find out all about the woman who have live in this house before me . ''
`` Well , there 's jest be three -- Elizabeth Russell , and Mrs. Ned Russell , and the schoolmaster 's bride .
Elizabeth Russell be a nice , clever little critter , and Mrs. Ned be a nice woman , too .
But they be n't ever like the schoolmaster 's bride .
`` The schoolmaster 's name be John Selwyn .
He come out from the Old Country to teach school at the Glen when I be a boy of sixteen .
He be n't much like the usual run of derelict who use to come out to P.E.I . to teach school in them day .
Most of them be clever , drunken critter who teach the child the three R 's when they be sober , and lambast them when they be n't .
But John Selwyn be a fine , handsome young fellow .
He board at my father 's , and he and me be crony , though he be ten year older 'n me .
We read and walk and talk a heap together .
He know about all the poetry that be ever write , I reckon , and he use to quote it to me along shore in the evening .
Dad think it an awful waste of time , but he sorter endure it , hop it 'd put me off the notion of go to sea .
Well , nothing could do THAT -- mother come of a race of sea-going folk and it be bear in me .
But I love to hear John read and recite .
It 's almost sixty year ago , but I could repeat yard of poetry I learn from him .
Nearly sixty year ! ''
Captain Jim be silent for a space , gaze into the glowing fire in a quest of the bygone .
Then , with a sigh , he resume his story .
`` I remember one spring evening I meet him on the sand-hills .
He look sorter uplift -- jest like you do , Dr. Blythe , when you bring Mistress Blythe in tonight .
I think of him the minute I see you .
And he tell me that he have a sweetheart back home and that she be come out to him .
I be n't more 'n half pleased , ornery young lump of selfishness that I be ; I think he would n't be as much my friend after she come .
But I 'd enough decency not to let him see it .
He tell me all about her .
Her name be Persis Leigh , and she would have come out with him if it have n't be for her old uncle .
He be sick , and he 'd look after her when her parent die and she would n't leave him .
And now he be dead and she be come out to marry John Selwyn .
'T be n't no easy journey for a woman in them day .
There be n't no steamer , you must ricollect . ''
` When do you expect her ? '
say I. '' ` She sail on the Royal William , the 20th of June , ' say he , ` and so she should be here by mid-July .
I must set Carpenter Johnson to build me a home for her .
Her letter come today .
I know before I open it that it have good news for me .
I saw her a few night ago . '
`` I do n't understand him , and then he explain -- though I do n't understand THAT much good .
He say he have a gift -- or a curse .
Them be his word , Mistress Blythe -- a gift or a curse .
He do n't know which it be .
He say a great-great-grandmother of his have have it , and they burn her for a witch on account of it .
He say queer spell -- trance , I think be the name he give 'em -- come over him now and again .
Are there such thing , Doctor ? ''
`` There be people who be certainly subject to trance , '' answer Gilbert .
`` The matter be more in the line of psychical research than medical .
What be the trance of this John Selwyn like ? ''
`` Like dream , '' say the old Doctor skeptically .
`` He say he could see thing in them , '' say Captain Jim slowly .
`` Mind you , I 'm tell you jest what HE say -- thing that be happen -- thing that be GOING to happen .
He say they be sometimes a comfort to him and sometimes a horror .
Four night before this he 'd be in one -- go into it while he be sit look at the fire .
And he saw an old room he know well in England , and Persis Leigh in it , hold out her hand to him and look glad and happy .
So he know he be go to hear good news of her . ''
`` A dream -- a dream , '' scoff the old Doctor .
`` Likely -- likely , '' concede Captain Jim .
`` That 's what I say to him at the time .
It be a vast more comfortable to think so .
I do n't like the idea of him see thing like that -- it be real uncanny . ''
` No , ' say he , ' I do n't dream it .
But we wo n't talk of this again .
You wo n't be so much my friend if you think much about it . '
`` I tell him nothing could make me any less his friend .
But he jest shake his head and say , say he : '' ` Lad , I know .
I 've lose friend before because of this .
I do n't blame them .
There be time when I feel hardly friendly to myself because of it .
Such a power have a bit of divinity in it -- whether of a good or an evil divinity who shall say ?
And we mortals all shrink from too close contact with God or devil . '
`` Them be his word .
I remember them a if 't be yesterday , though I do n't know jest what he mean .
What do you s ` pose he DID mean , doctor ? ''
`` I doubt if he know what he mean himself , '' say Doctor Dave testily .
`` I think I understand , '' whisper Anne .
She be listen in her old attitude of clasped lip and shin eye .
Captain Jim treat himself to an admire smile before he go on with his story .
`` Well , purty soon all the Glen and Four Winds people know the schoolmaster 's bride be come , and they be all glad because they think so much of him .
And everybody take an interest in his new house -- THIS house .
He pick this site for it , because you could see the harbor and hear the sea from it .
He make the garden out there for his bride , but he do n't plant the Lombardies .
Mrs. Ned Russell plant THEM .
But there 's a double row of rose-bushes in the garden that the little girl who go to the Glen school set out there for the schoolmaster 's bride .
He say they be pink for her cheek and white for her brow and red for her lip .
He 'd quote poetry so much that he sorter get into the habit of talk it , too , I reckon .
`` Almost everybody send him some little present to help out the furnishing of the house .
When the Russells come into it they be well-to-do and furnish it real handsome , a you can see ; but the first furniture that go into it be plain enough .
This little house be rich in love , though .
The woman send in quilt and tablecloth and towel , and one man make a chest for her , and another a table and so on .
Even blind old Aunt Margaret Boyd weave a little basket for her out of the sweet-scented sand-hill grass .
The schoolmaster 's wife use it for year to keep her handkerchief in .
`` Well , at last everything be ready -- even to the log in the big fireplace ready for light .
'T be n't exactly THIS fireplace , though 't be in the same place .
Miss Elizabeth have this put in when she make the house over fifteen year ago .
It be a big , old-fashioned fireplace where you could have roast an ox .
Many 's the time I 've sit here and spun yarn , same 's I 'm do tonight . ''
Again there be a silence , while Captain Jim keep a passing tryst with visitant Anne and Gilbert could not see -- the folk who have sit with him around that fireplace in the vanished year , with mirth and bridal joy shin in eye long since close forever under churchyard sod or heave league of sea .
Here on olden night child have toss laughter lightly to and fro .
Here on winter evening friend have gather .
Dance and music and jest have be here .
Here youth and maiden have dream .
For Captain Jim the little house be tenant with shape entreat remembrance .
`` It be the first of July when the house be finish .
The schoolmaster begin to count the day then .
We use to see him walk along the shore , and we 'd say to each other , ` She 'll soon be with him now . '
`` She be expect the middle of July , but she do n't come then .
Nobody felt anxious .
Vessels be often delay for day and mebbe week .
The Royal William be a week overdue -- and then two -- and then three .
And at last we begin to be frighten , and it get bad and bad .
Fin ` lly I could n't bear to look into John Selwyn 's eye .
D 'ye know , Mistress Blythe '' -- Captain Jim lower his voice -- `` I use to think that they look just like what his old great-great-grandmother 's must have be when they be burn her to death .
He never say much but he teach school like a man in a dream and then hurry to the shore .
Many a night he walk there from dark to dawn .
People say he be lose his mind .
Everybody have give up hope -- the Royal William be eight week overdue .
It be the middle of September and the schoolmaster 's bride have n't come -- never would come , we think .
`` There be a big storm then that last three day , and on the evening after it die away I go to the shore .
I find the schoolmaster there , lean with his arm fold against a big rock , gaze out to sea .
`` I speak to him but he do n't answer .
His eye seem to be look at something I could n't see .
His face be set , like a dead man 's . ''
` John -- John , ' I call out -- jest like that -- jest like a frightened child , ` wake up -- wake up . '
`` That strange , awful look seem to sorter fade out of his eye .
`` He turn his head and look at me .
I 've never forget his face -- never will forget it till I ship for my last voyage . ''
` All be well , lad , ' he say .
` I 've see the Royal William come around East Point .
She will be here by dawn .
Tomorrow night I shall sit with my bride by my own hearth-fire . '
`` Do you think he do see it ? ''
demand Captain Jim abruptly .
`` God know , '' say Gilbert softly .
`` Great love and great pain might compass we know not what marvel . ''
`` I be sure he do see it , '' say Anne earnestly .
`` Fol-de-rol , '' say Doctor Dave , but he speak with less conviction than usual .
`` Because , you know , '' say Captain Jim solemnly , `` the Royal William come into Four Winds Harbor at daylight the next morning .
`` Every soul in the Glen and along the shore be at the old wharf to meet her .
The schoolmaster have be watch there all night .
How we cheer a she sail up the channel . ''
Captain Jim 's eye be shin .
They be look at the Four Winds Harbor of sixty year agone , with a battered old ship sail through the sunrise splendor .
`` And Persis Leigh be on board ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Yes -- her and the captain 's wife .
They 'd have an awful passage -- storm after storm -- and their provision give out , too .
But there they be at last .
When Persis Leigh step onto the old wharf John Selwyn take her in his arm -- and folk stop cheer and begin to cry .
I cry myself , though 't be year , mind you , afore I 'd admit it .
Ai n't it funny how ashamed boy be of tear ? ''
`` Was Persis Leigh beautiful ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Well , I do n't know that you 'd call her beautiful exactly -- I -- do n't -- know , '' say Captain Jim slowly .
`` Somehow , you never get so far along a to wonder if she be handsome or not .
It jest do n't matter .
There be something so sweet and winsome about her that you have to love her , that be all .
But she be pleasant to look at -- big , clear , hazel eye and heap of glossy brown hair , and an English skin .
John and her be marry at our house that night at early candle-lighting ; everybody from far and near be there to see it and we all bring them down here afterwards .
Mistress Selwyn light the fire , and we go away and leave them sit here , jest a John have see in that vision of his .
A strange thing -- a strange thing !
But I 've see a turrible lot of strange thing in my time . ''
Captain Jim shake his head sagely .
`` It 's a dear story , '' say Anne , feel that for once she have get enough romance to satisfy her .
`` How long do they live here ? ''
`` Fifteen year .
I run off to sea soon after they be marry , like the young scalawag I be .
But every time I come back from a voyage I 'd head for here , even before I go home , and tell Mistress Selwyn all about it .
Fifteen happy year !
They have a sort of talent for happiness , them two .
Some folk be like that , if you 've notice .
They COULD N'T be unhappy for long , no matter what happen .
They quarrel once or twice , for they be both high-sperrited .
But Mistress Selwyn say to me once , say she , laugh in that pretty way of hers , ' I felt dreadful when John and I quarrel , but underneath it all I be very happy because I have such a nice husband to quarrel with and make it up with . '
Then they move to Charlottetown , and Ned Russell buy this house and bring his bride here .
They be a gay young pair , a I remember them .
Miss Elizabeth Russell be Alec 's sister .
She come to live with them a year or so later , and she be a creature of mirth , too .
The wall of this house must be sorter SOAKED with laughing and good time .
You 're the third bride I 've see come here , Mistress Blythe -- and the handsomest . ''
Captain Jim contrive to give his sunflower compliment the delicacy of a violet , and Anne wear it proudly .
She be look her best that night , with the bridal rise on her cheek and the love-light in her eye ; even gruff old Doctor Dave give her an approving glance , and tell his wife , a they drive home together , that that red-headed wife of the boy 's be something of a beauty .
`` I must be get back to the light , '' announce Captain Jim .
`` I 've enj ` yed this evening something tremenjus . ''
`` You must come often to see u , '' say Anne .
`` I wonder if you 'd give that invitation if you know how likely I 'll be to accept it , '' Captain Jim remark whimsically .
`` Which be another way of say you wonder if I mean it , '' smile Anne .
`` I do , ` cross my heart , ' a we use to say at school . ''
`` Then I 'll come .
You 're likely to be pester with me at any hour .
And I 'll be proud to have you drop down and visit me now and then , too .
Gin ` rally I have n't anyone to talk to but the First Mate , bless his sociable heart .
He 's a mighty good listener , and have forget more 'n any MacAllister of them all ever know , but he be n't much of a conversationalist .
You 're young and I 'm old , but our soul be about the same age , I reckon .
We both belong to the race that know Joseph , a Cornelia Bryant would say . ''
`` The race that know Joseph ? ''
puzzle Anne .
`` Yes .
Cornelia divide all the folk in the world into two kind -- the race that know Joseph and the race that do n't .
If a person sorter see eye to eye with you , and have pretty much the same idea about thing , and the same taste in joke -- why , then he belong to the race that know Joseph . ''
`` Oh , I understand , '' exclaim Anne , light break in upon her .
`` It 's what I use to call -- and still call in quotation mark ` kindred spirit . ' ''
`` Jest so -- jest so , '' agree Captain Jim .
`` We 're it , whatever IT be .
When you come in tonight , Mistress Blythe , I say to myself , say I , ` Yes , she 's of the race that know Joseph . '
And mighty glad I be , for if it be n't so we could n't have have any real satisfaction in each other 's company .
The race that know Joseph be the salt of the airth , I reckon . ''
The moon have just rise when Anne and Gilbert go to the door with their guest .
Four Winds Harbor be begin to be a thing of dream and glamour and enchantment -- a spellbound haven where no tempest might ever ravin .
The Lombardies down the lane , tall and sombre a the priestly form of some mystic band , be tip with silver .
`` Always like Lombardies , '' say Captain Jim , wave a long arm at them .
`` They 're the tree of princess .
They 're out of fashion now .
Folks complain that they die at the top and get ragged-looking .
So they do -- so they do , if you do n't risk your neck every spring climb up a light ladder to trim them out .
I always do it for Miss Elizabeth , so her Lombardies never get out-at-elbows .
She be especially fond of them .
She like their dignity and stand-offishness .
THEY do n't hobnob with every Tom , Dick and Harry .
If it 's maple for company , Mistress Blythe , it 's Lombardies for society . ''
`` What a beautiful night , '' say Mrs . Doctor Dave , a she climb into the Doctor 's buggy .
`` Most night be beautiful , '' say Captain Jim .
`` But I ` low that moonlight over Four Winds make me sorter wonder what 's leave for heaven .
The moon 's a great friend of mine , Mistress Blythe .
I 've love her ever since I can remember .
When I be a little chap of eight I fell asleep in the garden one evening and be n't miss .
I wake up along in the night and I be most scared to death .
What shadow and queer noise there be !
I durs n't move .
Jest crouch there quake , poor small mite .
Seemed 's if there be n't anyone in the world but meself and it be mighty big .
Then all at once I saw the moon look down at me through the apple bough , jest like an old friend .
I be comfort right off .
Got up and walk to the house as brave a a lion , look at her .
Many 's the night I 've watch her from the deck of my vessel , on sea far away from here .
Why do n't you folks tell me to take in the slack of my jaw and go home ? ''
The laughter of the goodnights die away .
Anne and Gilbert walk hand in hand around their garden .
The brook that run across the corner dimple pellucidly in the shadow of the birch .
The poppy along it bank be like shallow cup of moonlight .
Flowers that have be plant by the hand of the schoolmaster 's bride fling their sweetness on the shadowy air , like the beauty and blessing of sacred yesterday .
Anne pause in the gloom to gather a spray .
`` I love to smell flower in the dark , '' she say .
`` You get hold of their soul then .
Oh , Gilbert , this little house be all I 've dream it .
And I 'm so glad that we be not the first who have keep bridal tryst here ! ''
CHAPTER 8 MISS CORNELIA BRYANT COMES TO CALL That September be a month of golden mist and purple haze at Four Winds Harbor -- a month of sun-steeped day and of night that be swim in moonlight , or pulsate with star .
No storm mar it , no rough wind blew .
Anne and Gilbert put their nest in order , ramble on the shore , sail on the harbor , drive about Four Winds and the Glen , or through the ferny , sequester road of the wood around the harbor head ; in short , have such a honeymoon a any lover in the world might have envy them .
`` If life be to stop short just now it would still have be richly worth while , just for the sake of these past four week , would n't it ? ''
say Anne .
`` I do n't suppose we will ever have four such perfect week again -- but we 've HAD them .
Everything -- wind , weather , folk , house of dream -- have conspire to make our honeymoon delightful .
There have n't even be a rainy day since we come here . ''
`` And we have n't quarrel once , '' tease Gilbert .
`` Well , ` that 's a pleasure all the great for be defer , ' '' quote Anne .
`` I 'm so glad we decide to spend our honeymoon here .
Our memory of it will always belong here , in our house of dream , instead of be scatter about in strange place . ''
There be a certain tang of romance and adventure in the atmosphere of their new home which Anne have never find in Avonlea .
There , although she have live in sight of the sea , it have not enter intimately into her life .
In Four Winds it surround her and call to her constantly .
From every window of her new home she saw some vary aspect of it .
Its haunting murmur be ever in her ear .
Vessels sail up the harbor every day to the wharf at the Glen , or sail out again through the sunset , bound for port that might be half way round the globe .
Fishing boat go white-winged down the channel in the morning , and return laden in the evening .
Sailors and fisher-folk travel the red , wind harbor road , light-hearted and content .
There be always a certain sense of thing go to happen -- of adventure and farings-forth .
The way of Four Winds be less staid and settle and groove than those of Avonlea ; wind of change blew over them ; the sea call ever to the dweller on shore , and even those who might not answer it call felt the thrill and unrest and mystery and possibility of it .
`` I understand now why some men must go to sea , '' say Anne .
`` That desire which come to u all at time -- ` to sail beyond the bourne of sunset ' -- must be very imperious when it be bear in you .
I do n't wonder Captain Jim run away because of it .
I never see a ship sail out of the channel , or a gull soaring over the sand-bar , without wish I be on board the ship or have wing , not like a dove ` to fly away and be at rest , ' but like a gull , to sweep out into the very heart of a storm . ''
`` You 'll stay right here with me , Anne-girl , '' say Gilbert lazily .
`` I wo n't have you fly away from me into the heart of storm . ''
They be sit on their red sand-stone doorstep in the late afternoon .
Great tranquillity be all about them in land and sea and sky .
Silvery gull be soar over them .
The horizon be lace with long trail of frail , pinkish cloud .
The hushed air be thread with a murmurous refrain of minstrel wind and wave .
Pale aster be blow in the sere and misty meadow between them and the harbor .
`` Doctors who have to be up all night wait on sick folk do n't feel very adventurous , I suppose , '' Anne say indulgently .
`` If you have have a good sleep last night , Gilbert , you 'd be as ready a I be for a flight of imagination . ''
`` I do good work last night , Anne , '' say Gilbert quietly .
`` Under God , I save a life .
This be the first time I could ever really claim that .
In other case I may have help ; but , Anne , if I have not stay at Allonby 's last night and fought death hand to hand , that woman would have die before morning .
I try an experiment that be certainly never try in Four Winds before .
I doubt if it be ever try anywhere before outside of a hospital .
It be a new thing in Kingsport hospital last winter .
I could never have dare try it here if I have not be absolutely certain that there be no other chance .
I risk it -- and it succeed .
As a result , a good wife and mother be save for long year of happiness and usefulness .
As I drive home this morning , while the sun be rise over the harbor , I thank God that I have choose the profession I do .
I have fight a good fight and win -- think of it , Anne , WON , against the Great Destroyer .
It 's what I dream of do long ago when we talk together of what we want to do in life .
That dream of mine come true this morning . ''
`` Was that the only one of your dream that have come true ? ''
ask Anne , who know perfectly well what the substance of his answer would be , but want to hear it again .
`` YOU know , Anne-girl , '' say Gilbert , smile into her eye .
At that moment there be certainly two perfectly happy people sit on the doorstep of a little white house on the Four Winds Harbor shore .
Presently Gilbert say , with a change of tone , `` Do I or do I not see a full-rigged ship sail up our lane ? ''
Anne look and spring up .
`` That must be either Miss Cornelia Bryant or Mrs. Moore come to call , '' she say .
`` I 'm go into the office , and if it be Miss Cornelia I warn you that I 'll eavesdrop , '' say Gilbert .
`` From all I 've hear regard Miss Cornelia I conclude that her conversation will not be dull , to say the least . ''
`` It may be Mrs. Moore . ''
`` I do n't think Mrs. Moore be build on those line .
I saw her work in her garden the other day , and , though I be too far away to see clearly , I think she be rather slender .
She do n't seem very socially inclined when she have never call on you yet , although she 's your near neighbor . ''
`` She ca n't be like Mrs. Lynde , after all , or curiosity would have bring her , '' say Anne .
`` This caller be , I think , Miss Cornelia . ''
Miss Cornelia it be ; moreover , Miss Cornelia have not come to make any brief and fashionable wedding call .
She have her work under her arm in a substantial parcel , and when Anne ask her to stay she promptly take off her capacious sun-hat , which have be hold on her head , despite irreverent September breeze , by a tight elastic band under her hard little knob of fair hair .
No hat pin for Miss Cornelia , an it please ye !
Elastic band have be good enough for her mother and they be good enough for HER .
She have a fresh , round , pink-and-white face , and jolly brown eye .
She do not look in the least like the traditional old maid , and there be something in her expression which win Anne instantly .
With her old instinctive quickness to discern kindred spirit she know she be go to like Miss Cornelia , in spite of uncertain oddity of opinion , and certain oddity of attire .
Nobody but Miss Cornelia would have come to make a call array in a striped blue-and-white apron and a wrapper of chocolate print , with a design of huge , pink rose scatter over it .
And nobody but Miss Cornelia could have look dignified and suitably garb in it .
Had Miss Cornelia be enter a palace to call on a prince 's bride , she would have be just a dignified and just a wholly mistress of the situation .
She would have trail her rose-spattered flounce over the marble floor just a unconcernedly , and she would have proceed just a calmly to disabuse the mind of the princess of any idea that the possession of a mere man , be he prince or peasant , be anything to brag of .
`` I 've bring my work , Mrs. Blythe , dearie , '' she remark , unroll some dainty material .
`` I 'm in a hurry to get this do , and there be n't any time to lose . ''
Anne look in some surprise at the white garment spread over Miss Cornelia 's ample lap .
It be certainly a baby 's dress , and it be most beautifully make , with tiny frill and tuck .
Miss Cornelia adjust her glass and fell to embroider with exquisite stitch .
`` This be for Mrs. Fred Proctor up at the Glen , '' she announce .
`` She 's expect her eighth baby any day now , and not a stitch have she ready for it .
The other seven have wear out all she make for the first , and she 's never have time or strength or spirit to make any more .
That woman be a martyr , Mrs. Blythe , believe ME .
When she marry Fred Proctor I know how it would turn out .
He be one of your wicked , fascinate men .
After he get married he leave off be fascinating and just keep on be wicked .
He drink and he neglect his family .
Is n't that like a man ?
I do n't know how Mrs. Proctor would ever keep her child decently clothe if her neighbor do n't help her out . ''
As Anne be afterwards to learn , Miss Cornelia be the only neighbor who trouble herself much about the decency of the young Proctors .
`` When I hear this eighth baby be come I decide to make some thing for it , '' Miss Cornelia go on .
`` This be the last and I want to finish it today . ''
`` It 's certainly very pretty , '' say Anne .
`` I 'll get my sewing and we 'll have a little thimble party of two .
You be a beautiful sewer , Miss Bryant . ''
`` Yes , I 'm the best sewer in these part , '' say Miss Cornelia in a matter-of-fact tone .
`` I ought to be !
Lord , I 've do more of it than if I 'd have a hundred child of my own , believe ME !
I s ` pose I 'm a fool , to be put hand embroidery on this dress for an eighth baby .
But , Lord , Mrs. Blythe , dearie , it be n't to blame for be the eighth , and I kind of wish it to have one real pretty dress , just a if it WAS want .
Nobody 's want the poor mite -- so I put some extra fuss on it little thing just on that account . ''
`` Any baby might be proud of that dress , '' say Anne , feel still more strongly that she be go to like Miss Cornelia .
`` I s ` pose you 've be think I be never come to call on you , '' resume Miss Cornelia .
`` But this be harvest month , you know , and I 've be busy -- and a lot of extra hand hang round , eat more 'n they work , just like the men .
I 'd have come yesterday , but I go to Mrs. Roderick MacAllister 's funeral .
At first I think my head be ache so badly I could n't enjoy myself if I do go .
But she be a hundred year old , and I 'd always promise myself that I 'd go to her funeral . ''
`` Was it a successful function ? ''
ask Anne , notice that the office door be ajar .
`` What 's that ?
Oh , yes , it be a tremendous funeral .
She have a very large connection .
There be over one hundred and twenty carriage in the procession .
There be one or two funny thing happen .
I think that die I would to see old Joe Bradshaw , who be an infidel and never darken the door of a church , sing ` Safe in the Arms of Jesus ' with great gusto and fervor .
He glory in sing -- that 's why he never miss a funeral .
Poor Mrs. Bradshaw do n't look much like sing -- all wear out slaving .
Old Joe start out once in a while to buy her a present and bring home some new kind of farm machinery .
Is n't that like a man ?
But what else would you expect of a man who never go to church , even a Methodist one ?
I be real thankful to see you and the young Doctor in the Presbyterian church your first Sunday .
No doctor for me who be n't a Presbyterian . ''
`` We be in the Methodist church last Sunday evening , '' say Anne wickedly .
`` Oh , I s ` pose Dr. Blythe have to go to the Methodist church once in a while or he would n't get the Methodist practice . ''
`` We like the sermon very much , '' declare Anne boldly .
`` And I think the Methodist minster 's prayer be one of the most beautiful I ever hear . ''
`` Oh , I 've no doubt he can pray .
I never hear anyone make more beautiful prayer than old Simon Bentley , who be always drunk , or hop to be , and the drunker he be the good he pray . ''
`` The Methodist minister be very fine look , '' say Anne , for the benefit of the office door .
`` Yes , he 's quite ornamental , '' agree Miss Cornelia .
`` Oh , and VERY ladylike .
And he think that every girl who look at him fall in love with him -- a if a Methodist minister , wander about like any Jew , be such a prize !
If you and the young doctor take MY advice , you wo n't have much to do with the Methodists .
My motto be -- if you ARE a Presbyterian , BE a Presbyterian . ''
`` Do n't you think that Methodists go to heaven as well a Presbyterians ? ''
ask Anne smilelessly .
`` That be n't for US to decide .
It 's in high hand than ours , '' say Miss Cornelia solemnly .
`` But I ai n't go to associate with them on earth whatever I may have to do in heaven .
THIS Methodist minister be n't marry .
The last one they have be , and his wife be the silly , flighty little thing I ever saw .
I tell her husband once that he should have wait till she be grow up before he marry her .
He say he want to have the training of her .
Was n't that like a man ? ''
`` It 's rather hard to decide just when people ARE grow up , '' laugh Anne .
`` That 's a true word , dearie .
Some be grow up when they 're bear , and others ai n't grow up when they 're eighty , believe ME .
That same Mrs. Roderick I be speak of never grow up .
She be a foolish when she be a hundred a when she be ten . ''
`` Perhaps that be why she live so long , '' suggest Anne .
`` Maybe 't be .
I 'd rather live fifty sensible year than a hundred foolish one . ''
`` But just think what a dull world it would be if everyone be sensible , '' plead Anne .
Miss Cornelia disdain any skirmish of flippant epigram .
`` Mrs. Roderick be a Milgrave , and the Milgraves never have much sense .
Her nephew , Ebenezer Milgrave , use to be insane for year .
He believe he be dead and use to rage at his wife because she would n't bury him .
I 'd a-done it . ''
Miss Cornelia look so grimly determine that Anne could almost see her with a spade in her hand .
`` Do n't you know ANY good husband , Miss Bryant ? ''
`` Oh , yes , lot of them -- over yonder , '' say Miss Cornelia , wave her hand through the open window towards the little graveyard of the church across the harbor .
`` But living -- go about in the flesh ? ''
persist Anne .
`` Oh , there 's a few , just to show that with God all thing be possible , '' acknowledge Miss Cornelia reluctantly .
`` I do n't deny that an odd man here and there , if he 's caught young and train up proper , and if his mother have spank him well beforehand , may turn out a decent be .
YOUR husband , now , be n't so bad , a men go , from all I hear .
I s ` pose '' -- Miss Cornelia look sharply at Anne over her glass -- `` you think there 's nobody like him in the world . ''
`` There be n't , '' say Anne promptly .
`` Ah , well , I hear another bride say that once , '' sigh Miss Cornelia .
`` Jennie Dean think when she marry that there be n't anybody like HER husband in the world .
And she be right -- there be n't !
And a good thing , too , believe ME !
He lead her an awful life -- and he be court his second wife while Jennie be die .
`` Was n't that like a man ?
However , I hope YOUR confidence will be well justify , dearie .
The young doctor be take real well .
I be afraid at first he might n't , for folk hereabouts have always think old Doctor Dave the only doctor in the world .
Doctor Dave have n't much tact , to be sure -- he be always talk of rope in house where someone have hang himself .
But folk forget their hurt feeling when they have a pain in their stomach .
If he 'd be a minister instead of a doctor they 'd never have forgive him .
Soul-ache do n't worry folks near as much a stomach-ache .
Seeing a we 're both Presbyterians and no Methodists around , will you tell me your candid opinion of OUR minister ? ''
`` Why -- really -- I -- well , '' hesitate Anne .
Miss Cornelia nod .
`` Exactly .
I agree with you , dearie .
We make a mistake when we call HIM .
His face just look like one of those long , narrow stone in the graveyard , do n't it ?
` Sacred to the memory ' ought to be write on his forehead .
I shall never forget the first sermon he preach after he come .
It be on the subject of everyone do what they be best fit for -- a very good subject , of course ; but such illustration a he use !
He say , ` If you have a cow and an apple tree , and if you tie the apple tree in your stable and plant the cow in your orchard , with her leg up , how much milk would you get from the apple tree , or how many apple from the cow ? '
Did you ever hear the like in your born day , dearie ?
I be so thankful there be no Methodists there that day -- they 'd never have be do hoot over it .
But what I dislike most in him be his habit of agree with everybody , no matter what be say .
If you say to him , ` You 're a scoundrel , ' he 'd say , with that smooth smile of his , ` Yes , that 's so . '
A minister should have more backbone .
The long and the short of it be , I consider him a reverend jackass .
But , of course , this be just between you and me .
When there be Methodists in hear I praise him to the sky .
Some folk think his wife dress too gay , but I say when she have to live with a face like that she need something to cheer her up .
You 'll never hear ME condemn a woman for her dress .
I 'm only too thankful when her husband be n't too mean and miserly to allow it .
Not that I bother much with dress myself .
Women just dress to please the men , and I 'd never stoop to THAT .
I have have a real placid , comfortable life , dearie , and it 's just because I never care a cent what the men think . ''
`` Why do you hate the men so , Miss Bryant ? ''
`` Lord , dearie , I do n't hate them .
They be n't worth it .
I just sort of despise them .
I think I 'll like YOUR husband if he keep on a he have begin .
But apart from him about the only men in the world I 've much use for be the old doctor and Captain Jim . ''
`` Captain Jim be certainly splendid , '' agree Anne cordially .
`` Captain Jim be a good man , but he 's kind of vex in one way .
You CA N'T make him mad .
I 've try for twenty year and he just keep on be placid .
It do sort of rile me .
And I s ` pose the woman he should have marry get a man who go into tantrum twice a day . ''
`` Who be she ? ''
`` Oh , I do n't know , dearie .
I never remember of Captain Jim make up to anybody .
He be edge on old as far a my memory go .
He 's seventy-six , you know .
I never hear any reason for his stay a bachelor , but there must be one , believe ME .
He sail all his life till five year ago , and there 's no corner of the earth he have n't poke his nose into .
He and Elizabeth Russell be great crony , all their life , but they never have any notion of sweet-hearting .
Elizabeth never marry , though she have plenty of chance .
She be a great beauty when she be young .
The year the Prince of Wales come to the Island she be visit her uncle in Charlottetown and he be a Government official , and so she get invite to the great ball .
She be the pretty girl there , and the Prince dance with her , and all the other woman he do n't dance with be furious about it , because their social standing be high than hers and they say he should n't have pass them over .
Elizabeth be always very proud of that dance .
Mean folk say that be why she never marry -- she could n't put up with an ordinary man after dance with a prince .
But that be n't so .
She tell me the reason once -- it be because she have such a temper that she be afraid she could n't live peaceably with any man .
She HAD an awful temper -- she use to have to go upstairs and bite piece out of her bureau to keep it down by time .
But I tell her that be n't any reason for not marry if she want to .
There 's no reason why we should let the men have a monopoly of temper , be there , Mrs. Blythe , dearie ? ''
`` I 've a bit of temper myself , '' sigh Anne .
`` It 's well you have , dearie .
You wo n't be half so likely to be tread on , believe ME !
My , how that golden glow of yours be bloom !
Your garden look fine .
Poor Elizabeth always take such care of it . ''
`` I love it , '' say Anne .
