Then how will you get anything to eat ? ''
Reddy Fox wipe his eye on his coat sleeve and hobble along as best he could .
Granny Fox would run a little way ahead to see that the way be safe and then come back for Reddy .
Poor Reddy .
He do his best not to complain , but it be such hard work .
And somehow Reddy Fox do n't believe that it be at all necessary .
He have be terribly frighten when he have disobey Granny Fox that afternoon and put his head out the door , only to look right into the freckled face of Farmer Brown 's boy .
He have duck back out of sight again too quickly for Farmer Brown 's boy to shoot , and now he could n't see why old Granny Fox want to move that very night .
`` She 's get old .
She 's get old and timid and fussy , '' mutter Reddy Fox , a he hobble along behind her .
It seem to Reddy a if they have walk mile and mile .
He really think that they have be walk nearly all night when old Granny Fox stop in front of the worst-looking old fox house Reddy have ever see .
`` Here we be ! ''
say she .
`` What !
Are we go to live in that thing ? ''
cry Reddy .
`` It be n't fit for any respectable fox to put his nose into . ''
`` It be where I be bear ! ''
snap old Granny Fox .
`` If you want to keep out of harm 's way , do n't go to put on air now .
`` Who scorn the simple thing of life And tilt his nose at all he see , Is almost sure to feel the knife Of want cut through his pleasant ease .
`` Now do n't let me hear another word from you , but get inside at once ! ''
Reddy Fox do n't quite understand all Granny Fox say , but he know when she be to be obey , and so he crawl gingerly through the broken-down doorway .
XXV .
Peter Rabbit Makes a Discovery Hardly have jolly , round , red Mr. Sun throw off his nightcap and come out from his home behind the Purple Hills for his daily climb up in the blue , blue sky , when Farmer Brown 's boy start down the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest .
Peter Rabbit , who have be out all night and be just then on his way home , saw him .
Peter stop and sit up to rub his eye and look again .
He be n't quite sure that he have see aright the first time .
But he have .
There be Farmer Brown 's boy , sure enough , and at his heel trot Bowser the Hound .
Peter Rabbit rub his eye once more and wrinkle up his eyebrow .
Farmer Brown 's boy certainly have a gun over one shoulder and a spade over the other .
Where could he be go down the Lone Little Path with a spade ?
Farmer Brown 's garden certainly be not in that direction .
Peter watch him out of sight and then he hurry down to the Green Meadows to tell Johnny Chuck what he have see .
My , how Peter 's long leg do fly !
He be so excited that he have forget how sleepy he have felt a few minute before .
Halfway down to Johnny Chuck 's house , Peter Rabbit almost run plump into Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk , who have be quarrel and be call each other name .
They stop when they saw Peter Rabbit .
`` Peter Rabbit run away From his shadder , so they say .
Peter , Peter , what a sight !
Tell u why this sudden fright , '' shout Bobby Coon .
Peter Rabbit stop short .
Indeed , he stop so short that he almost turn a somersault .
`` Say , '' he pant , `` I 've just see Farmer Brown 's boy . ''
`` You do n't say so ! ''
say Jimmy Skunk , pretend to be very much surprise .
`` You do n't say so !
Why , now I think of it , I believe I 've see Farmer Brown 's boy a few time myself . ''
Peter Rabbit make a good-natured face at Jimmy Skunk , and then he tell all about how he have see Farmer Brown 's boy with gun and spade and Bowser the Hound go down the Lone Little Path .
`` You know there be n't any garden down that way , '' he conclude .
Bobby Coon 's face wear a sober look .
Yes , Sir , all the fun be go from Bobby Coon 's face .
`` What 's the matter ? ''
ask Jimmy Skunk .
`` I be just think that Reddy Fox live over in that direction and he be so stiff that he can not run , '' reply Bobby Coon .
Jimmy Skunk hitch up his trouser and start toward the Lone Little Path .
`` Come on ! ''
say he .
`` Let 's follow him and see what he be about . ''
Bobby Coon follow at once , but Peter Rabbit say he would hurry over and get Johnny Chuck and then join the others .
All this time Farmer Brown 's boy have be hurry down the Lone Little Path to the home old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox have move out of the night before .
Of course , he do n't know that they have move .
He put down his gun , and by the time Jimmy Skunk and Bobby Coon and Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck reach a place where they could peep out and see what be go on , he have dug a great hole .
`` Oh ! ''
cry Peter Rabbit , `` he 's dig into the house of Reddy Fox , and he 'll catch poor Reddy ! ''
XXVI .
Farmer Brown 's Boy Works for Nothing The grass around the doorstep of the house where Reddy Fox have always live be all wet with dew when Farmer Brown 's boy lay his gun down , take off his coat , roll up his shirt sleeve , and pick up his spade .
It be cool and beautiful there on the edge of the Green Meadows .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have just begin his long climb up in the blue , blue sky .
Mr. Redwing be sing for joy over in the bulrush on the edge of the Smiling Pool .
Yes , it be very beautiful , very beautiful indeed .
It do n't seem a if harm could come to anyone on such a beautiful morning .
But there be Farmer Brown 's boy .
He have crawl on his hand and knee without make a sound to get near enough to the home of Reddy Fox to shoot if Reddy be outside .
But there be no sign of Reddy , so Farmer Brown 's boy have hop up , and now he be whistle a he begin to dig .
His freckled face look good-natured .
It do n't seem a if he could mean harm to anyone .
But there lay the gun , and he be work a if he mean to get to the very bottom of Reddy Fox 's home !
Deeper and deep grow the hole , and big and big grow the pile of sand which he throw out .
He do n't know that anyone be watch him , except Bowser the Hound .
He do n't see Johnny Chuck peep from behind a tall bunch of meadow grass , or Peter Rabbit peep from behind a tree on the edge of the Green Forest , or Bobby Coon look from a safe hiding place in the top of that same tree .
He do n't see Jimmy Skunk or Unc ' Billy Possum or Happy Jack Squirrel or Digger the Badger .
He do n't see one of them , but they saw him .
They saw every shovelful of sand that he throw , and their heart go pit-a-pat a they watch , for each one felt sure that something dreadful be go to happen to Reddy Fox .
Only Ol ' Mistah Buzzard know well .
From way up high in the blue , blue sky he could look down and see many thing .
He could see all the little meadow and forest people who be watch Farmer Brown 's boy .
The hard Farmer Brown 's boy work , the more Ol ' Mistah Buzzard chuckle to himself .
What be he laugh at ?
Why , he could see the sharp face of old Granny Fox , peep out from behind an old fence corner , and she be grin .
So Ol ' Mistah Buzzard know Reddy Fox be safe .
But the other little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows do n't know that old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox have move , and their face grow long and longer a they watch Farmer Brown 's boy go deeper and deeper into the ground .
`` Reddy Fox have worry me almost to death and would eat me if he could catch me , but somehow thing would n't be quite the same without him around .
Oh dear , I do n't want him kill , '' moan Peter Rabbit .
`` Perhaps he be n't home , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
`` Of course he 's home ; he 's so stiff and sore he can hardly walk at all and have to stay home , '' reply Johnny Chuck .
`` Hello , what 's the matter now ? ''
Everybody look .
Farmer Brown 's boy have climb out of the hole .
He look tired and cross .
He rest for a few minute , and a he rest , he scowl .
Then he begin to shovel the sand back into the hole .
He have reach the bottom and find no one there .
`` Hurrah ! ''
shout Peter Rabbit and strike his heel together a he jump up in the air .
And the others be just as glad a Peter Rabbit .
Johnny Chuck be especially glad , for , you see , Farmer Brown 's boy have once find Johnny 's snug home , and Johnny have have to move as suddenly a do Granny and Reddy Fox .
Johnny know just how Reddy must feel , for he have have many narrow escape in his short life .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Unc'_Billy_Possum.txt.out
I UNC ' BILLY POSSUM IS CAUGHT The Green Meadows be throw into great excitement late one afternoon , just a the black shadow come creep down from the Purple Hills .
Reddy Fox bring the news , and when he tell it he grin a if he enjoy it and be glad of it .
`` Old Billy Possum be dead .
I know it because I saw Farmer Brown 's boy carry him home by the tail , '' say Reddy .
`` So you see he be n't so smart a you think he be , '' he add maliciously .
No one really believe Reddy Fox , for every one know that he seldom tell the truth , but when Jimmy Skunk come mournfully down the Crooked Little Path and say that it be true , they have to believe it .
Then everybody begin to talk about Unc ' Billy and say nice thing about him and tell how much they have enjoy have him live in the Green Forest since he come up from `` Ol ' Virginny . ''
That be , everybody but Reddy Fox say so .
Reddy say that it serve Unc ' Billy right , because he be of no account , anyway .
Then everybody begin to hoot and hiss at Reddy until he be glad enough to slink away .
And while they be all say such nice thing about him , Unc ' Billy Possum be have an exciting adventure .
For once he have be too bold .
He have go up to Farmer Brown 's hen-house before dark .
Jimmy Skunk have try to stop him , but he have heed Jimmy Skunk not at all .
He have say that he be hungry and want an egg , and he could n't wait till dark to get it .
So off he have start , for Unc ' Billy Possum be very headstrong and obstinate .
He have reach the hen-house and slip inside without be see .
The nest be full of egg , and soon Unc ' Billy be enjoy his feast so that he forget to keep watch .
Suddenly the door open , and in stepped Farmer Brown 's boy to get some egg for supper .
There be no time to run .
Unc ' Billy just drop right down in his track a if he be dead .
When Farmer Brown 's boy saw him , he do n't know what to make of him , for he have never see Unc ' Billy before .
`` Well , well , I wonder what happen to this fellow , '' say Farmer Brown 's boy , turn Unc ' Billy over with the toe of one foot .
`` He certainly be dead enough , whatever kill him .
I wonder what he be do in here . ''
Then he saw some egg on Unc ' Billy 's lip .
`` Ho !
ho ! ''
shout Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` So you be the thief who have be get my egg ! ''
And pick up Unc ' Billy by the tail , he start with him for the house .
As they pass the woodpile , he toss Unc ' Billy on the chopping-block while he gather an armful of kindling to take to the house .
When he turn to pick up Unc ' Billy again , Unc ' Billy be n't there .
Farmer Brown 's boy drop his wood and hunt everywhere , but not a trace of Unc ' Billy could he find .
II REDDY FOX THINKS HE SEES A GHOST Reddy Fox come down the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest on his way to the Green Meadows .
He have brush his red coat until it shine .
His white waistcoat be spotless , and he carry his big tail high in the air , that it might not become soiled .
Reddy be feel as fine a he look .
He would have like to sing , but every time he try his voice crack , and he be afraid that some one would hear him and laugh at him .
If there be one thing that Reddy Fox dislike more than another , it be be laugh at .
Reddy chuckle at his thought , and what do you think he be think about ?
Why , about how he have see Farmer Brown 's boy carry off Unc ' Billy Possum by the tail the afternoon before .
He know how Farmer Brown 's boy have catch Unc ' Billy in the hen-house , and with his own eye he have see Unc ' Billy carry off .
Of course Unc ' Billy be dead .
There could be no doubt about it .
And Reddy be glad of it .
Yes , Sir , Reddy be glad of it .
Unc ' Billy Possum have make altogether too many friend in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows , and he have make Reddy the laughing-stock of them all by the way he have dare Reddy to meet Bowser the Hound , and actually have wait for Bowser while Reddy run away .
Reddy remember that Unc ' Billy 's hollow tree be not far away .
He would go over that way , just to have another look at it .
So over he go .
There stand the old hollow tree , and half way up be the door out of which Unc ' Billy use to look down on him and grin .
It be Reddy 's turn to grin now .
Presently he sit down with his back against the foot of the tree , cross his leg , look this way and that way to make sure that no one be about , and then in a dreadfully cracked voice he begin to sing : `` Ol ' Bill Possum , he 's go before !
Ol ' Bill Possum , he be no more !
Bill be a scamp , Sir ; Bill be a thief !
Bill steal an egg , Sir ; Bill come to grief .
Ol ' Bill Possum , it serve him right ; And he be no more , for he die last night . ''
`` Very good , Sah , very good .
Ah cert ` nly be oblige to yo'all for yo ' serenade , '' say a voice that seem to come out of the tree at Reddy 's back .
Reddy Fox spring up a if some one have stick a pin into him .
Every hair stand on end , a he look up at Unc ' Billy 's doorway .
Then his teeth begin to chatter with fright .
Looking out of Unc ' Billy 's doorway and grin down at him be something that look for all the world like Unc ' Billy himself .
`` It must be his ghost ! ''
say Reddy , and tuck his tail between his leg , he start up the Crooked Little Path a fast a his leg could take him .
Reddy never once look back .
If he have , he might have see Unc ' Billy Possum climb down from the hollow tree and shake hand with Jimmy Skunk , who have just come along .
`` How do Ah do it ?
Why , Ah just pretend Ah be daid , when Farmer Brown 's boy catch me , '' explain Unc ' Billy .
`` Of course he ' would n't kill a daid Possum .
So when he toss me down on the chopping-block and turn his back , Ah just naturally come to life again , and here Ah be . ''
Unc ' Billy Possum grin broad than ever , and Jimmy Skunk grin , too .
III UNC ' BILLY POSSUM SENDS FOR HIS FAMILY The news that Unc ' Billy Possum be n't dead at all but be back in his hollow tree in the Green Forest soon spread through all the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows .
Everybody hasten to pay their respect , that be everybody but Reddy Fox .
Unc ' Billy and his partner , Jimmy Skunk , tell every one who call how Reddy Fox have think that Unc ' Billy be a ghost and have be frighten almost to death , so that he run away as fast a his leg could take him .
Unc ' Billy grin a he tell how Reddy have sit under the hollow tree and try to sing because he be so glad that Unc ' Billy be dead , and all the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows laugh until their side ache when in a funny , cracked voice Unc ' Billy sing the song for them .
Thereafter whenever one of them catch sight of Reddy Fox at a safe distance , he would shout : `` Ol ' Bill Possum , he 's go before !
Ol ' Bill Possum , he be no more ! ''
It get so that Reddy never come down on the Green Meadows in the daytime , and at night he avoid meet any one if possible , even his old friend , Bobby Coon .
And of course Reddy Fox hat Unc ' Billy Possum more than ever .
But Unc ' Billy do n't care , not he !
He know that all the rest of the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows think him the smartest of them all , because of the way in which he have fool Bowser the Hound and Farmer Brown 's boy .
He like his neighbor , he like the Green Forest , and so he make up his mind that this be the place for him to stay .
But in spite of all his friend , Unc ' Billy be lonesome .
The longer he stay , the more lonesome he grow , Unc ' Billy want his family , whom he have leave way down in `` Ol ' Virginny . ''
Finally he tell Jimmy Skunk all about it , and for once Unc ' Billy have forget how to grin .
Yes , Sir , Unc ' Billy have forget how to grin .
Instead he just weep , wept great big tear of lonesomeness .
`` Ah reckon Ah 'll have to go back to Ol ' Virginny , Ah cert ` nly do , '' say Unc ' Billy Possum .
Jimmy Skunk grow very thoughtful .
Since he and Unc ' Billy Possum have be in partnership , Jimmy have have more egg to eat than ever before in his whole life .
Now Unc ' Billy be talk about go away .
Jimmy think very hard .
Then he have a bright idea .
`` Why not send for your family to come here and live in the Green Forest , Uncle Billy ? ''
he ask .
Unc ' Billy stop cry .
His two little eye look up sharply .
`` How do yo'all reckon Ah can send word ? ''
he ask .
Jimmy scratch his head .
`` There 's Mr. Skimmer the Swallow ; he 's fix to go South .
Perhaps he 'll take the message to your family , '' say he .
`` The very thing ! ''
cry Unc ' Billy Possum , wipe his eye .
`` Ah thanks yo ' , Sah .
Ah do , indeed .
Ah 'll see Mistah Skimmer at once . ''
And without another word Unc ' Billy Possum start down the Crooked Little Path for the Green Meadows to look for Skimmer the Swallow .
IV BOBBY COON ENTERS THE WRONG HOUSE After Unc ' Billy Possum have arrange with Skimmer the Swallow , who be go South , to take a message to his family in `` Ol ' Virginny , '' tell them to come and join him in the Green Forest , he at once begin to make preparation to receive them .
Unc ' Billy be n't any too fond of work .
He have a lot rather that some one else should do the work for him , and he be smart enough to fix it so that usually some one else do .
But get ready to receive his family be different .
No one else could arrange thing to suit him .
This be Unc ' Billy 's own job , and he tend right to it every minute of the day .
First of all he have to clean house .
He have be keep bachelor 's hall so long in the big hollow tree that thing be not very tidy .
So Unc ' Billy clean house , and while he work he whistle and sang .
Peter Rabbit , pass that way , overheard Unc ' Billy singing : `` Mah ol ' woman be away down Souf -- Come along !
Come along !
Ai n't nothin ' sharp than the tongue in her mouf -- Come along !
Come along !
She once be pretty , but she ai n't no mo ' , But she cook mah meal an ' she sweep mah flo ' ; She darn mah stocking an ' she mend mah coat , An ' she know jes ' how mah chillun fer to tote -- Come along !
Come along !
`` Mah pickaninny be a-headin ' dis way -- Come along !
Come along !
Daddy be a-watchin ' fo ' 'em day by day -- Come along !
Come along !
Mah ol ' haid ache when Ah think ob de noise De 's boun ' to be wid dem gal an ' boy , But Ah doan care if it bust in two If de good Lord bring dem chillun troo -- Come along !
Come along ! ''
Every little while Unc ' Billy Possum would sit down to rest , for he be n't use to so much real work .
But finally he get his house clean and make as comfortable a possible , and about that time be begin to think how good an egg would taste .
The more he think about it , the more he want that egg .
`` It 's no use talk , Ah just naturally have to have that egg , '' say Unc ' Billy to himself , and off he start for Farmer Brown 's .
Now Unc ' Billy be hardly out of sight when along come Bobby Coon .
Bobby Coon be absent-minded , or else he be so sleepy that he do n't know what he be do , for Bobby Coon have be out all night .
Anyway , when he reach Unc ' Billy Possum 's hollow tree , he begin to climb up it just a if it be his own .
He look in at Unc ' Billy 's door .
There be the most comfortable bed that he have see for a long time .
He look this way and he look that way .
Nobody be in sight .
Then he look in at Unc ' Billy 's door once more .
That bed certainly do look soft and comfortable .
Bobby Coon chuckle to himself .
`` I believe I 'll just see if that bed be as comfortable a it look , '' say he .
And two minute later Bobby Coon be curl up fast asleep in Unc ' Billy Possum 's bed .
V BOBBY COON IS WAKED UP `` Dey 's a-coming , dey 's a-coming , dey 's a-coming mighty soon .
But dey ca n't come soon enuff fo ' me !
Dey 's a-coming , dey 's a-coming at de turn ob de moon , Whar Ah wait in mah ol ' holler tree ! ''
Unc ' Billy Possum be sing to himself , a he slowly trudge home from Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
He be feel very good , very good indeed , be Unc ' Billy Possum .
No one appreciate strictly fresh egg more than Unc ' Billy do , and he have find more than he could eat wait for him in Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
Now his stomach be full , his house have be clean and put to right , ready for his family when they should arrive from `` Ol ' Virginny , '' and he have nothing to do but wait for them .
So he trudge along and sing in a funny , cracked voice .
Presently he come to his big hollow tree and start to climb up to the door of his house .
Half way up he break off short in the middle of his song and sit down on a convenient branch .
He put one ear against the trunk of the tree and listen .
Then he put the other ear against the tree and listen .
There certainly be a funny noise , and it seem to come from right inside his hollow tree .
Unc ' Billy turn and look up at his doorway , scratch his head thoughtfully with one hand .
`` Mah goodness ! ''
say Unc ' Billy , `` it cert ` nly sound like there be somebody in mah house ! ''
Then very softly Unc ' Billy creep up to his doorway and peep in .
It be dark inside , so that Unc ' Billy could see little else than that his nice , freshly make , comfortable bed be all muss up .
But if he could n't see , he could hear .
Oh , yes , indeed , Unc ' Billy could hear perfectly well , and what he hear be a snore !
There be some one in Unc ' Billy 's house , and more than that , they be fast asleep in Unc ' Billy 's bed .
`` Mah goodness !
Mah goodness ! ''
exclaim Unc ' Billy Possum , and his two sharp little eye begin to snap .
Then he stick his head in at the door and shout : `` Hi , yo'all !
What yo ' do in mah house ? ''
The only answer be another snore .
Unc ' Billy wait a minute .
Then he put his head in once more .
`` Yo ' well come out of mah house , Mr. Who-ever-yo ' - be , before Ah come in and put yo ' out ! ''
shout Unc ' Billy .
The only answer be a snore louder than before .
Then Unc ' Billy quite lose his temper .
Some one who have no business there be in his house !
He do n't know who it be , and he do n't care .
They be go to come out or he would know why not .
Unc ' Billy grit his teeth and in he go .
My !
my !
my !
such a rumpus a there be right away in that hollow tree !
Peter Rabbit happen to be come along that way and heard it .
Peter stop and gaze at the hollow tree with eye and mouth wide open .
Such a snarling and growling !
Then out of the doorway begin to fly leaf and moss .
They be part of Unc ' Billy 's bed .
Then Peter saw a big ringed tail hang out of the doorway .
Peter recognize it right away .
No one possess a tail like that but Bobby Coon .
In a minute Bobby follow his tail , hastily back down the tree .
Then Unc ' Billy 's sharp little old face appear at the doorway .
Unc ' Billy look down at Peter Rabbit and grin .
`` Ah guess Mistah Coon do make a mistake when he go to bed in mah house , '' say he .
And Bobby Coon sheepishly admit that he do .
VI SAMMY JAY LEARNS PETER RABBIT 'S SECRET `` I 'm Mr. Jaybird , tee-hee-hee !
I 'm Mr. Jaybird ; you watch me !
You 've get to rise ` fore break of day If you want to fool old Mr. Jay . ''
Over and over Sammy Jay hum this , a he brush his handsome blue and white coat .
Then he laugh a he remark to no one in particular , for no one be near enough to hear : `` Peter Rabbit 's get a secret .
When Peter go about whisper , it 's a sure sign that he 's get a secret .
He think that he can keep it from me , but he ca n't .
Oh , my , no !
I never know of a secret that could be keep by more than two people , and already I 've see Peter whisper to five .
I 'll just see what Reddy Fox know about it . ''
With a flirt of his tail Sammy Jay start for the Green Meadows , where Reddy Fox be busy hunt for his breakfast .
`` It 's a fine morning , Reddy Fox , '' say Sammy Jay .
`` It would be finer , if I could fill my stomach faster , '' reply Reddy .
`` That 's a pretty good secret of Peter Rabbit 's , be n't it ? ''
ask Sammy , pretend to look very wise .
Reddy prick up his sharp little ear .
`` What secret ? ''
he demand .
`` If you do n't know , I 'm not go to tell , '' retort Sammy Jay , just a if he know all about it , and off he fly to hunt up his cousin , Blacky the Crow .
Blacky know nothing about Peter Rabbit 's secret , nor do Shadow the Weasel , whom he meet by the way .
But Sammy Jay be not in the least bit discouraged .
`` I 'll try Johnny Chuck ; he 'll know , '' say Sammy to himself .
He find Johnny sit on his doorstep , watch the world go by .
`` Good morning , Johnny Chuck , '' say Sammy , with a low bow .
`` Good morning , '' reply Johnny Chuck , who always be polite .
`` Is n't that a fine secret of Peter Rabbit 's ? ''
exclaim Sammy , just a if he know all about it .
Johnny Chuck raise his eyebrow and put on the most surprised look .
`` Do tell me what it be ! ''
he beg .
`` Oh , if you do n't know , I wo n't tell , for that would n't be fair , '' reply Sammy , and try to look very honest and innocent , and then he fly over to the Green Forest .
And a he fly , he say to himself : `` Johnny Chuck ca n't fool me ; he do know Peter Rabbit 's secret . ''
Over in the Green Forest he find Drummer the Woodpecker make a great racket on the hollow limb of an old chestnut .
Sammy sit down near by and listen .
`` My , that 's fine !
I wish I could do that .
You must be practise , '' say Sammy at the end of a long rat-a-tat-tat .
Drummer the Woodpecker felt very much flatter .
`` I be , '' say he .
`` I 'm practise for Peter Rabbit 's party . ''
`` I think so , '' reply Sammy Jay .
Of course he have n't think anything of the kind .
`` Wo n't Unc ' Billy Possum be surprise ? ''
remark Drummer the Woodpecker , a he sit down to rest .
`` He surely will , '' reply Sammy Jay , and then he flatter and flatter Drummer the Woodpecker until finally Drummer tell all about Peter 's plan for a surprise party for Unc ' Billy Possum .
By and by , a he fly home , Sammy Jay chuckle and say : `` You 've get to rise ` fore break of day If you want to fool old Mr. Jay . ''
VII FOUR LITTLE SCAMPS PLAN MISCHIEF `` Some folk think they 're mighty smart -- Oh , la me !
Oh , la me !
Like the knave who steal the tart -- Oh , la me !
Oh , la me !
Some folk will waken up some day -- And find they ca n't fool Mr. Jay ! ''
Sammy Jay be mightily pleased with himself .
He have find out all about Peter Rabbit 's plan to give Unc ' Billy Possum a surprise party when his family come up from `` Ol ' Virginny . ''
He have find out that all the little forest and meadow people but himself and his cousin , Blacky the Crow , and Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel have be invite , and that each be to bring something good to eat .
Sammy Jay smack his lip a he think of this .
Then he look up at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun and wink .
Now on all the Green Meadows and in all the Green Forest , there live no great scamp than Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow and Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel .
The bad of it be , they be not honest .
They steal whenever they get a chance , and always they try to get others into trouble .
That be why Peter Rabbit have leave them out , when he plan his surprise party for Unc ' Billy Possum .
Sammy Jay call the three others together under the Lone Pine and tell them all about Peter Rabbit 's plan and how they have be leave out .
Of course Blacky the Crow and Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel be angry , very angry indeed , for no one like to be leave out of a good time .
The more Sammy Jay tell them , the angrier they grow ; and the angrier they grow , the more Sammy Jay chuckle , way down inside .
Sammy have a plan , and the angry the others grow , the more likely be they to help him .
`` You wait till I catch Peter Rabbit ! ''
say Reddy Fox and show all his teeth .
He quite forget that , despite all his smartness , he never yet have catch Peter Rabbit .
Blacky the Crow scratch his head thoughtfully .
`` We can spoil his surprise by tell Unc ' Billy Possum all about it beforehand , '' say he .
Sammy Jay wink at each of the others .
He clear his throat and look all around , to make sure that no one else be near .
Then he lean forward and whisper : `` Let 's invite ourselves to the party . ''
`` What do you mean ? ''
exclaim the others , all together .
`` Just what I say , '' reply Sammy .
`` We 'll be the real surprise .
Before the party begin , you will hide close to where it be to be .
When everybody have get there and bring all the good thing to eat , I 'll come fly along and scream : ` Here come Bowser the Hound ! '
Of course every one will run away , and we 'll have all the good thing to eat . ''
`` Haw !
haw !
haw !
The very thing !
We 'll all be there , '' cry Blacky the Crow .
The four little scamp shake hand and separate .
As they go across the Green Meadows , Sammy Jay 's voice float back to the Lone Pine .
He be sing , although he have a very poor voice for singing , and this be his song : -LSB- Illustration : `` What do you mean ? ''
exclaim the others all together . -RSB-
`` Some folk think they 're mighty smart -- Oh , la me !
Oh , la me !
Like the knave who steal the tart -- Oh , la me !
Oh , la me !
Some folk will waken up some day -- And find they ca n't fool Mr. Jay ! ''
`` Is that so ?
Really now , I want to know , '' say old Mr. Toad , crawl from under the very piece of bark on which Sammy Jay have sit when he tell his plan .
Then old Mr. Toad wink slowly and solemnly at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun and start off to find Peter Rabbit .
VIII PETER RABBIT SENDS OUT WORD It be a beautiful morning .
Everybody say so , and what everybody say be usually so .
Peter Rabbit wear the broad kind of a smile .
He hop and skip all the way down the Lone Little Path on to the Green Meadows and be wait there when Old Mother West Wind come down from the Purple Hills and , turn her big bag upside down , tumble out all her child , the Merry Little Breezes , to play .
Peter stop them before they have a chance to run away .
He whisper to each , and each in turn start to dance across the Green Meadows to carry the news that this be the day of Peter Rabbit 's surprise party for Unc ' Billy Possum , whose family would arrive that very morning from way down in `` Ol ' Virginny . ''
Sammy Jay have rise very early that morning .
Almost at once his sharp eye have see Peter Rabbit send out the Merry Little Breezes .
Sammy 's wit be as sharp a his eye , and you know it be very hard to really fool sharp wit .
Right away Sammy have guess what the Merry Little Breezes be hurry so for , but he sit and wait and listen .
Pretty soon he hear Drummer the Woodpecker start a long rat-a-tat-tat over by Unc ' Billy Possum 's hollow tree .
Then Sammy be sure that this be the day of Peter Rabbit 's party .
Sammy grin a he hurry off to find Blacky the Crow and Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel .
Reddy be not yet out of bed , but when he hear Sammy Jay at his door , he tumble out in a hurry .
He do n't stop to get any breakfast , because he have plan to get all he could eat at the party .
So he hurry over to where the party be to be .
Very cautiously he creep up , and when he be quite sure that no one be about , he crawl into a hollow log which be open at one end .
There he stretch himself out and make himself as comfortable a he could .
Pretty soon Shadow the Weasel join Reddy Fox in the hollow log , and they whisper and chuckle while they wait .
They know that Blacky the Crow be safely hide in the top of a tall pine , where he could see all that go on , and that Sammy Jay be fly about over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , pretend that he be attend wholly to his own business , but really watch all the preparation for Peter Rabbit 's party .
At the foot of a tree , in the top of which Prickly Porky the Porcupine be eat his breakfast , sit old Mr. Toad , nod sleepily .
Sammy Jay saw him there but , smart a Sammy be , he do n't once suspect innocent-looking old Mr. Toad .
You see , he do n't know that old Mr. Toad have overheard all of his plan .
IX MR. TOAD AND PRICKLY PORKY PUT THEIR HEADS TOGETHER Slowly Prickly Porky the Porcupine climb down from the top of the tall poplar tree where he have be get his breakfast of tender young bark .
He grunt a he work his way down , for he have with him a bundle of bark to take over to Peter Rabbit 's surprise party .
When he reach the ground , Prickly Porky shake himself until he rattle the thousand little spear hide in his long coat .
`` Tee-hee-hee ! ''
`` Who dare to laugh at me ? ''
demand Pricky Porky , shake himself until all the little spear rattle again , and some of them begin to peep out of his long coat .
`` No one be laugh at you , '' reply a voice right behind him .
Prickly Porky turn around .
There sit old Mr. Toad .
His big mouth be stretch wide open , and he be laugh all to himself .
Something be tickle old Mr. Toad mightily .
Prickly Porky scowl , and a few more little spear peep out of his long coat .
You know no one like to be laugh at , and it certainly do look a if old Mr. Toad be laugh at him .
Mr. Toad stop laugh and hop a step nearer .
`` It 's a joke , '' say he , and slowly wink one eye .
`` I do n't see any joke , '' say Prickly Porky , and his voice be very fretful .
Mr. Toad hop a step nearer .
`` Are you go to Peter Rabbit 's party ? ''
`` Of course I be .
What a foolish question , '' reply Prickly Porky .
`` To be sure , a very foolish question , a very foolish question , indeed , '' assent Mr. Toad .
`` Do you know that Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow and Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel , who have not be invite , be plan to break up the party and then gobble up all the good thing to eat ? ''
he continue .
Prickly Porky lay down his bundle of tender young bark and star at old Mr. Toad , `` How do you know ? ''
he demand .
Old Mr. Toad chuckle deep down in his throat .
`` I be underneath a piece of bark on which Sammy Jay be sit when the plan be make .
Of course he do n't know I be there , and of course I do n't tell him . ''
`` Of course not , '' interrupt Prickly Porky , begin to grin .
`` Of course not , '' continue Mr. Toad , grinning , too .
Then he tell Prickly Porky all about the plan he have overheard , how Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel and Blacky the Crow be to hide near Unc ' Billy Possum 's hollow tree , and how Sammy Jay be to frighten away everybody else by pretend that Bowser the Hound be come .
`` Have you tell Peter Rabbit ? ''
ask Prickly Porky .
`` Not yet , but I 'm go to , by and by , '' reply old Mr. Toad .
`` But first , I want you to help me fool Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow and Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel .
Will you ? ''
`` Of course I will if I can , but how can I ? ''
answered Prickly Porky promptly .
Old Mr. Toad hop up , and stretch up on tiptoe , whisper in one of Prickly Porky 's ear .
Prickly Porky begin to smile .
Then he begin to chuckle .
Finally he laugh until he have to hold his side .
`` Will you do it ? ''
ask Mr. Toad .
Prickly Porky reach for his bundle of tender young bark .
`` Of course I will , '' say he , still chuckle .
`` Come on , Mr. Toad , it 's time we be go . ''
X THE RUNAWAY CABBAGE Reddy Fox , hide with Shadow the Weasel in a hollow log near Unc ' Billy Possum 's home , nudge Shadow with his elbow .
`` I hear some one coming , '' he whisper .
Shadow peep out .
`` It 's old Mr. Toad and Prickly Porky , '' he whisper back .
Something that sound very much like a growl sound way down deep in the throat of Reddy Fox , for Reddy have no love for Prickly Porky .
`` And there come Jimmy Skunk , with a big-goose egg under each arm ! ''
continued Shadow , smack his lip .
Reddy Fox wriggle up where he could peep out , too .
`` My goodness !
What 's that come down the Lone Little Path ? ''
whisper Reddy .
Shadow look .
Then he begin to laugh , and Reddy begin to laugh , too .
But it be laughter that make no sound , for Reddy and Shadow do n't want any one to know that they be hide there .
It be a funny sight they be peep out at .
It certainly be a funny sight .
Down the Lone Little Path come Peter Rabbit and his cousin , Juniper the Hare , roll a huge cabbage .
Right at the top of a little hill the cabbage get away from them .
Down it start , roll and bound along , with Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare frantically try to catch it .
Just ahead be Johnny Chuck with a big bundle of sweet clover , which he be bring to Peter Rabbit 's party .
He do n't see the big cabbage come .
It knock his foot from under him , and down he go with a thump , flat on his back .
Right on top of him fell Jumper the Hare , who be close behind the runaway cabbage and have no time to turn aside .
Over the two of them fell Peter Rabbit .
Such a mix-up !
And the big cabbage keep right on run away .
Jimmy Skunk , who never hurry , hear the noise behind him and turn to see what it all meant .
But he do n't have time to more than blink his eye before the runaway cabbage hit him full in the stomach .
Down go Jimmy Skunk with a grunt .
One big egg fly over against a tree and broke .
Jimmy land on the other , and this broke , too .
Such a sight a Jimmy Skunk be !
Egg drip from every part of his handsome black and white coat .
It be in his eye and all over his face and drip from his whisker .
Shadow the Weasel and Reddy Fox , hide in the hollow log , laugh until the tear roll down their cheek , though down in the heart of Shadow be bitter disappointment , for he have plan to steal those very eggs .
Just a little way beyond Jimmy Skunk the runaway cabbage bring up with a thump against a stump on which sit Striped Chipmunk , with the pocket in his cheek fill full of yellow corn .
The sudden bump of the big cabbage make Striped Chipmunk lose his balance , and off he tumble , right down on to old Mr. Toad , who have just sit down behind the stump for a few minute of rest .
It knock all the wind out of Mr. Toad , and of course Striped Chipmunk spill all his corn .
Prickly Porky the Porcupine hear the noise .
He look up to see a strange thing bound down the Lone Little Path .
Prickly Porky do n't wait to see what it be .
He do just what he always do when he think there may be danger ; he roll himself up with his face hidden in his waistcoat , and when he do that , the thousand little spear hide in his coat stand out until he look like a giant chestnut burr .
The runaway cabbage bounce off the stump and hit Prickly Porky .
Then it stop .
Where it have touch Prickly Porky , the sharp little spear have stick into it , so that when Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare hurry up , there lay the runaway cabbage , look for all the world like a great green pincushion .
XI REDDY FOX GOES HUNGRY Like a great green pincushion lay the runaway cabbage of Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare .
Every one think it be the very best joke ever .
Jimmy Skunk have go off to take a bath and get two more egg for Peter Rabbit 's party .
Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel , peep out from the hollow log where they be hide , could see Jimmy on his way back with a big goose egg under each arm .
Shadow smack his lip .
He mean to have those egg himself .
Pretty soon all the little forest and meadow people whom Peter Rabbit have invite be gather around the foot of Unc ' Billy Possum 's hollow tree , and each have bring something good to eat .
My , such a feast a be spread out there !
Now they be wait for Unc ' Billy Possum , who have go to meet his family , come up from `` Ol ' Virginny . ''
Over in the top of a tall pine tree Blacky the Crow be hide and chuckle to himself a he watch .
Reddy Fox be get impatient .
He be hungry .
He have have no breakfast , and a he lay hide in the hollow log , he could peep out and see all the good thing , and he could smell them , too .
It seem a if his stomach would just give him no peace at all .
He wish that Sammy Jay would bring the false message that Bowser the Hound be come , so a to frighten all the rest away .
`` I 'm nearly starve ! ''
whisper Reddy Fox .
`` I hope Sammy Jay will hurry up . ''
Just then they notice that Peter Rabbit be very busy .
He hop from guest to guest and whisper in the ear of each .
`` Now I wonder what Peter Rabbit be whisper about , '' say Reddy .
Suddenly the light at the end of the hollow log disappear .
There be a queer rattle sound that send shiver up and down Reddy 's backbone .
Prickly Porky the Porcupine have sit down with his back against the end of the hollow log , and the queer rattle sound be make by the thousand little spear in his long coat .
Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel be in a prison .
You see there be no other opening to the hollow log .
`` Never mind , '' whisper Shadow the Weasel , `` he 'll go away when Sammy Jay shout that Bowser the Hound be come . ''
Blacky the Crow , hide in the top of the tall pine , be also wonder what Peter be whisper .
His sharp eye watch Peter , and every time that Peter whisper in the ear of one of the little meadow or forest people , they would laugh .
Now , Sammy Jay know nothing about all this .
By and by , when he think that every one be there , Sammy come fly through the Green Forest , just a if he know nothing about Peter Rabbit 's party .
Now , Sammy , with all his fault , be one of the best watchman in the Green Forest .
If there be any danger which his sharp eye discover , he always scream at the top of his lung .
So , though he steal and play trick and make life very uncomfortable for the others , they always stop to listen when Sammy sound a warning .
Because Sammy know this he felt sure of break up this party .
As soon a he come in sight of all the little meadow and forest people , he begin to shriek at the top of his lung .
`` Run !
run !
run !
Here come Bowser the Hound , '' he shout .
No one move , and this puzzle Sammy so that he hardly know what to do , but he keep right on shriek , just a if Bowser be right close at hand .
Still no one move .
Sammy stop on a tall pine and pretend to be terribly excite .
`` You have good run before Bowser get here , '' he shout .
What do you think happen then ?
Why , everybody set up a great shout .
`` Ha !
ha !
ha ! ''
laugh Peter Rabbit .
`` Ho !
ho !
ho ! ''
shout Johnny Chuck .
`` Hee !
hee !
hee ! ''
giggle Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` What time will Bowser get here ? ''
ask Bobby Coon , gravely .
`` Tell Bowser that we be all wait for him , '' add Jimmy Skunk .
`` Is Bowser quite out of breath ? ''
inquired Jerry Muskrat .
`` I would like nothing good than to run a race with Bowser the Hound , '' say Jumper the Hare , sit up very straight .
Sammy Jay do n't know what to do or what to say .
He be just the most disgusted look Jay that ever fly through the Green Forest , and all the time he wonder and wonder and wonder how it could be that Peter Rabbit and his friend know that Bowser the Hound be not in the Green Forest at all .
You see , old Mr. Toad have tell Peter all about Sammy 's plan , and this be what Peter have be whisper to the others .
XII PRICKLY PORKY MAKES HIMSELF AT HOME Peter Rabbit 's party promise to be a great success .
When old Mr. Toad , who have overhear Sammy Jay 's plan , have tell Peter Rabbit all about it , he have also tell Peter that Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel be hide in an old hollow log close by .
Peter have whisper the news in the ear of each of the little forest and meadow people and have tell them how Prickly Porky be even then sit with his back against the opening in the hollow log .
Every one have think this the best joke ever , for , of course , they all know that Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel could not get out past the thousand little spear hide in the long coat of Prickly Porky .
Prickly Porky settle himself very comfortably and begin to tell story about his home , way up in the North Woods .
Every few minute he would rattle the thousand little spear in his coat , and though no one could see Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel inside the hollow log , every one could guess just how little shiver be run up and down the backbone of the two little scamp hold prisoner there .
Prickly Porky tell how in the cold , cold winter the snow pile up and pile up in his far northern home , until nearly all the forest folk who live there have to make a long journey into the South , or else go into warm , snug hollow in the tree or cave in the rock and sleep the long winter through , just a Johnny Chuck do .
He tell how the Indians come through the great forest on big webbed shoe , that keep them from sink into the snow , and hunt for Lightfoot the Deer , and how they never bother Prickly Porky , but always treat him with the great respect .
He tell so many , many interesting thing about the great North Woods , that all the little meadow people and forest folk gather close around to listen , but every few minute , while he be talk , he would shake his thousand little spear , and then every one would smile .
Inside the hollow log Reddy Fox be get stiff and sore , because , you know , he do n't have room enough to even turn over .
Worse still , he be so hungry that he could cry .
You see , he have creep in there very early in the morning without any breakfast , because he have plan that when Sammy Jay should break up Peter Rabbit 's party , he would steal all the good thing he want .
Now , he could smell them , and hear the others talk about the feast they be go to have , and he know that not so much a a tiny , tiny crumb would be leave for him , when Prickly Porky should choose to let him out .
Shadow the Weasel felt just as uncomfortable a Reddy Fox , and Shadow be very short-tempered .
Every time Reddy move and squeeze Shadow , Shadow would snap at him .
Now , of course , they could hear everything that be say outside , and the thing that be say be not pleasant to listen to .
Bobby Coon and Billy Mink and Johnny Chuck and Little Joe Otter and Jimmy Skunk tell about all the mean thing and all the sharp trick that Reddy Fox and Shadow have do .
It make the two little prisoner so angry that they grind their teeth , but every time they make the least little movement , Prickly Porky would shake his thousand little spear and settle himself still more firmly against the opening in the hollow log .
He certainly be enjoy himself .
It tickle him almost to piece to think how easily he have trap smart Reddy Fox , the boaster .
So they wait all the long day for the come of Unc ' Billy Possum 's family , and when at last they do arrive , there be the merry surprise party ever see .
Only Sammy Jay , Blacky the Crow , Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel be unhappy , and of course no one care for that .
XIII UNC ' BILLY POSSUM GROWS HUNGRY Unc ' Billy Possum spend the very cold day of winter curl up in his warm , snug home in the big hollow tree in the Green Forest .
Unc ' Billy do n't like the cold weather .
Sometimes he would stick his head out of his doorway and then , a he hear rough Brother North Wind whooping through the Green Forest , he would turn right around and go back to his bed for another nap .
And all the time he would be say : `` Way down Souf de sun be shinin ' -- Yas , Sah , dat be so !
Fo ' dat lan ' mah heart be pinin ' -- Yas , Sah , dat be so !
`` De mocking-bird he sing all day , De alligator be at play , De flower dey be bloomin ' fair , And mah heart ache to be down there -- Yas , Sah , dat be so ! ''
Now Unc ' Billy have prepare for the winter by get just as fat a he know how .
He be so fat that he could hardly waddle when Jack Frost first come to the Green Forest .
You see he know that if he be very , very fat he would n't have to worry about get anything to eat , not for a long time , anyway .
So when the ice and snow come , and Unc ' Billy decide that it be more comfortable indoors than outdoors , he be almost as fat a Johnny Chuck be when he go to sleep for the long winter .
Now Johnny Chuck just sleep and sleep and sleep , without wake once the whole winter long .
But Unc ' Billy Possum could n't sleep like that .
He have to stick his head out every little while to see how the world be get along without him .
When the sun be bright and the air be not too cold , Unc ' Billy would sometimes climb down from his hollow tree and walk about a little on the snow .
But he do n't enjoy it much .
It make his foot cold , and then he do n't like the track he make .
He scowl at them , for he know well enough that if Farmer Brown 's boy should happen along , he would know right away who have make those track , and then he would hunt for Unc ' Billy 's home in the hollow tree .
So Unc ' Billy do n't go out very much , and very seldom indeed when the snow be soft .
It seem to Unc ' Billy Possum a if the winter never , never would go .
He be begin to grow thin now , and of course he be get hungry .
He begin to think about it , and the more he think about it , the hungrier he grow .
One morning he stick his head out of his doorway , and whom should he see trot along below but Jimmy Skunk .
Jimmy look fat and comfortable and a if he do not mind the cold weather at all .
`` Good mo ` ning , Jimmy Skunk , '' say Unc ' Billy .
Jimmy Skunk look up .
`` Hello , Unc ' Billy ! ''
he exclaim .
`` I have n't see you for a long time ! ''
`` Whar yo ' be , Jimmy Skunk ? ''
ask Unc ' Billy .
Jimmy wink one eye .
`` Getting my breakfast of nice fresh egg , '' he reply .
Unc ' Billy Possum 's mouth begin to water .
`` Did yo ' leave any ? ''
he anxiously inquire .
Jimmy Skunk allow that he do , and Unc ' Billy give a long sigh , a he watch Jimmy Skunk amble off up the Lone Little Path .
Unc ' Billy could n't sleep any more now .
No , Sir , he could n't sleep a wink .
All he could do be to think how hungry he be .
He would shut his eye , and then it seem a if he could see right into Farmer Brown 's hen-house , and there be egg , egg , egg , everywhere .
Finally Unc ' Billy make up his mind .
`` Ah 'm go up there the very first dark night ! ''
say he .
XIV OLD MRS. POSSUM GROWS WORRIED Old Mrs. Possum count her baby to be sure that they all be tuck snug and warm in their bed in the old hollow tree in the Green Forest .
`` One , two , three , four , five , six , seven , eight . ''
They be all there .
Mrs. Possum look at them with a great deal of pride and sigh a she think of how soon they would be leave the old hollow tree to see the great world and make home for themselves .
Just as soon a the beautiful spring come , they would one by one slip away .
Mrs. Possum sigh again .
She do n't like winter .
No , Sir , she do n't like winter one bit .
But when she think of how her baby would leave her , she almost wish that spring never would come .
Sure that her baby be warm and comfortable , old Mrs. Possum go to the door and look out .
It be plain to be see that Mrs. Possum be worry .
That be the tenth time she have look out in half an hour .
Her sharp little old face look sharp than ever .
It always look sharper when she be worried , just a the tongue of some people always grow sharp when they be worried .
`` Ah don ' see what can be keepin ' mah ol ' man !
Ah 'm plumb worry to death , '' mutter old Mrs. Possum .
Right that very minute she hear a noise outside that make her hurry to the door and thrust her head out once more .
It be Sammy Jay , shrieking : `` Thief !
Thief !
Thief ! ''
at the top of his lung .
`` He 's a thief himself and just a low-down mischief-maker , for all his smart clo'es , but he know a powerful lot about what be go on in the Green Forest , and perhaps he have see mah ol ' man , '' say old Mrs. Possum , a she try to make her sharp face as pleasant a possible .
She look over at Sammy Jay , who be in the next tree , and smile , and when she smile she show all her sharp teeth .
`` Good mo ` ning , Brer Jay , '' say she .
`` Hello ! ''
exclaim Sammy Jay , not at all politely .
`` Where 's Uncle Billy Possum ? ''
Old Mrs. Possum shake her head , and the worried look come back into her face , although she try hard , oh , so hard , not to let it .
`` He do go out fo ' a walk , '' reply old Mrs. Possum .
`` Ah reckons yo'all just get up , or yo ' would have meet up with him somewhere . ''
Old Mrs. Possum say this just to try to make Sammy Jay talk , for Sammy be very quick-tempered , and quick-tempered people often say a lot more than they mean to .
You see , Mrs. Possum be quite sure that if Sammy Jay know how worried she be over Unc ' Billy Possum , he would refuse to tell her whether or not he have see Unc ' Billy , for Sammy Jay be mean and love to torment others .
Sammy 's temper flare up right away .
`` I 've be up ever since sun-up ! ''
he sputter .
`` Your old man be n't anywhere in the Green Forest , unless he 's go to sleep in some other hollow tree , and I would n't blame him a bit if he have !
No , Sir , I would n't blame him the least bit ! ''
`` Keep your temper , Brer Jay !
Keep your temper , do , Oh pray ! ''
say old Mrs. Possum , grin in the most aggravating way a she turn back to her baby .
She have find out what she want to know -- Sammy Jay have see nothing of Unc ' Billy Possum .
Old Mrs. Possum sit down with her head in her hand .
She be more worried than ever .
XV THE FOOLISHNESS OF UNC ' BILLY POSSUM If Unc ' Billy Possum have n't happen to look out of his doorway in the big hollow tree in the Green Forest , or if Jimmy Skunk have n't happen to come along just that very minute , or if Unc ' Billy have n't ask Jimmy where he have be , or if Jimmy have n't mention nice fresh egg , Unc ' Billy would n't have be foolish , and old Mrs. Possum would n't have be worry .
But all those thing do happen .
After Jimmy Skunk have mention his fine breakfast of fresh egg , Unc ' Billy Possum could n't think of anything else .
He know well enough where Jimmy have find those egg .
Yes , indeed , Unc ' Billy know all about it .
He could shut his eye and just see the inside of Farmer Brown 's hen-house with the row of hen and rooster sit on the roost at one end , their head tuck under their wing .
He could see the row of nest and the beautiful brown egg in them .
Jimmy Skunk could n't climb , and so he could have get only the egg in the low nest .
Now if he , Unc ' Billy , have be there , he could have climb to the very topmost nest and -- but what be the use of think about it ?
He have n't be there , and he could n't go now , because it be daylight .
All the rest of the day Unc ' Billy try to sleep , but when he do sleep he dream about egg , nice , fresh , delicious egg , and when he be awake he though about egg .
It make him more and more uneasy and fidgety .
Old Mrs. Possum could n't stand it .
`` What all be the matter with yo ' ? ''
she snap .
`` Ah do wish yo ' would keep still a minute ! ''
Unc ' Billy mutter something , but all that Mrs. Possum could hear be `` egg . ''
`` Now do n't yo'all get to think of such foolishness a egg , '' she command .
`` It be n't safe to be snoop around Farmer Brown 's hen-house when there 's snow on the ground .
Yo ' just fo ` get all about egg !
Do yo ' hear what Ah say ? ''
Unc ' Billy nod that he do .
But just the same he could n't think of anything else .
He know that old Mrs. Possum be right , and that it be n't safe to go fool around Farmer Brown 's hen-house and leave his track for everybody who come along to see .
Just the same , Unc ' Billy felt that he have get to have a nice fresh egg .
He have get to have it .
That be all there be about it .
As soon a jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have go to bed behind the Purple Hills that night , Unc ' Billy creep out of his home in the hollow tree .
`` Where be yo ' go ? ''
demand Mrs. Possum .
`` Just to stretch the kink out of mah leg , '' reply Unc ' Billy .
Old Mrs. Possum look after him suspiciously .
`` Do n't yo ' go fo ' to do any foolishness ! ''
she call .
Unc ' Billy do n't answer .
He be on his way to Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
XVI WHY UNC ' BILLY POSSUM DID N'T GO HOME Unc ' Billy Possum have a very good reason for not go home , a very good reason , indeed .
Even old Mrs. Possum would have think it be a good reason , could she have know it .
But she do n't know it , and so she sit in the home in the big hollow tree in the Green Forest and worry herself almost sick , because Unc ' Billy do n't come home , and she do n't know what might have happen to him .
Sometimes Unc ' Billy wish that he be back in the old hollow tree , and sometimes he be glad that he be right where he be .
Sometimes he felt little shiver of fear run all over him a he think of what might become of him if he should be find .
Sometimes a little tickly feeling of pleasure run all over him , a he bite a hole in the end of a freshly lay egg and suck the egg out of the shell .
Now Unc ' Billy be very , very crafty .
He have find Jimmy Skunk 's track boldly lead up to the hen-house , so Unc ' Billy have step as carefully a he know how in the footprint of Jimmy Skunk , in order that Farmer Brown 's boy might think that Jimmy Skunk be the only visitor to the hen-house .
But with all his craft , there be one thing that Unc ' Billy forget .
Yes , Sir , there be one thing Unc ' Billy forget all about .
He forget to keep his tail up .
He be try so hard to step in the footprint of Jimmy Skunk , that he forget all about that little , smooth , handy old tail of his , and he let it drag along the snow .
-LSB- Illustration : He just eat and eat until he could n't eat another one . -RSB-
When Unc ' Billy be safely in the hen-house , he hurry from one nest to another .
There be egg , plenty of them .
It seem to him that nothing he have ever see before have look half so good a those egg .
He just eat and eat and eat until he could n't eat another one .
Now a full stomach be very apt to make a sleepy head .
Unc ' Billy know that the thing for him to do be to hurry home a fast a he could go , but he do n't .
No , Sir , he do n't do it .
The hen-house be warm and here be some of the nice nest of hay .
He be tire after his long walk from the Green Forest , for Unc ' Billy have do so little walk this winter that he be rather out of practice .
Why not take a teeny , weeny nap before he start back home ?
Unc ' Billy climb to the very last nest in the topmost row , way up in a dark corner .
It have n't be use for a long time , but it be full of nice , soft hay .
Unc ' Billy curl himself up in it , and with a great sigh of contentment , close his eye for that teeny , weeny nap .
He do n't open them again until he hear an angry voice right close to him .
He peep out .
It be broad daylight , and there , just below him , be Farmer Brown 's boy , look at the empty egg-shells leave by Unc ' Billy .
Farmer Brown 's boy be angry .
Yes , indeed , he be very , very angry .
Unc ' Billy shiver a he listen .
Then he snuggle down out of sight under the hay of the nest .
XVII UNC ' BILLY POSSUM LIES LOW Farmer Brown 's boy be angry .
Yes , Sir , he be angry .
There be no doubt about that .
He have find the empty shell of the egg which Unc ' Billy have eat in the night , and Unc ' Billy knew by the sound of his voice that Farmer Brown 's boy mean to find the thief .
It be a terrible position to be in , right there in the hen-house , with no chance to run .
Unc ' Billy wish with all his might that he have never think of egg , and that he be safe back home in the dear old hollow tree in the Green Forest .
Oh , dear !
oh , dear !
Why have n't he go right straight back there , after eat those egg , instead of take a nap ?
But he have n't .
He have take a nap and overslept , and here he be , right in the hen-house , in broad daylight .
`` It must have be a Skunk , '' say Farmer Brown 's boy , `` and if it be , he must have leave some track in the snow outside .
I 'll just look around a bit . ''
Unc ' Billy almost chuckle a he hear Farmer Brown 's boy go out .
`` He 'll find Jimmy Skunk 's track , but he wo n't find mine , '' think Unc ' Billy .
`` Is n't it lucky that I think to step right in Jimmy Skunk 's track when I come here ? ''
He lay still and listen to Farmer Brown 's boy poke around outside .
He hear him exclaim : `` Ah , I think so ! ''
and know that he have find the track Jimmy Skunk have make in the snow .
Unc ' Billy almost chuckle again a he think what a smart fellow he have be to step in Jimmy Skunk 's track .
And right then he hear something that put an end to all his fine thought about his own smartness , and send little cold shiver up and down his backbone .
`` Hello ! ''
say the voice of Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` These be queer track !
That Skunk must have have a queer tail , for here be the mark of it in the snow , and they look a if they might have be make by the tail of a very big rat . ''
Unc ' Billy remember then for the first time that when he have think he be so smart , he have forget to hold his tail up .
He have drag it in the snow , and of course it have leave a mark .
`` I guess that there be more than one visitor here last night , '' continue the voice of Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Here be the track of the Skunk go away from the hen-house , but I do n't see any of those other queer track go away .
Whoever make them must be right around here now . ''
Back into the hen-house come Farmer Brown 's boy and begin to poke around in all the corner .
He move all the box and look in the grain bin .
Then he begin to look in the nest .
Unc ' Billy could hear him come nearer and nearer .
He be look in the very next nest to the one in which Unc ' Billy be .
Finally he look into that very nest .
Unc ' Billy Possum hold his breath .
Now the nest in which Unc ' Billy be hide be on the topmost row in the dark corner of the hen-house , and Unc ' Billy have crawl down underneath the hay .
Perhaps it be because that corner be so dark , or perhaps it be because that nest be so high up , that Farmer Brown 's boy really do n't expect to find anything there .
Anyway , all he saw be the hay , and he do n't take the trouble to put his hand in and feel for anything under the hay .
`` It 's queer , '' say Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` It 's very queer !
I guess I shall have to set some trap . ''
And all the time Unc ' Billy Possum hold his breath and lay low .
XVIII UNC ' BILLY POSSUM IS A PRISONER `` Mah home be in a holler tree -- It 's a long way home !
Ah wish Ah 's there , but here Ah be -- It 's a long way home !
If Ah have only be content Instead of out on mischief bent , Ah 'd have no reason to repent -- It 's a long way home ! ''
Unc ' Billy Possum lay curl up under the hay in the high nest in the dark corner in Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
Unc ' Billy do n't dare go to sleep , because he be afraid that Farmer Brown 's boy might find him .
And , anyway , he want to see just what Farmer Brown 's boy be do .
So peep out , he watch Farmer Brown 's boy , who seem to be very busy indeed .
What do you think he be do ?
Unc ' Billy know .
Yes , Sir , Unc ' Billy know just what Farmer Brown 's boy be do .
He be set trap .
Unc ' Billy 's eye twinkle a he watch Farmer Brown 's boy , for Unc ' Billy know that those trap be be set for him , and now that he know just where each one be , of course he be n't a bit afraid .
It seem to Unc ' Billy that it be just the great kind of a joke to be watch Farmer Brown 's boy set those trap , while all the time Farmer Brown 's boy think he be hide them so cleverly that the only way they would be find would be by some one step into one and get caught .
`` There , '' say Farmer Brown 's boy , a he set the last trap , `` I 'd like to see anything get into this hen-house now without get caught ! ''
Unc ' Billy almost chuckle aloud .
Yes , Sir , he almost chuckle aloud .
It be such a funny idea that Farmer Brown 's boy should have take all the trouble to set those trap to catch Unc ' Billy try to get into the hen-house , when all the time he be already in there .
Unc ' Billy laugh under his breath a Farmer Brown 's boy close the door of the hen-house and go off whistling .
`` Ho , ho , ho !
Ha , ha , ha !
Hee , hee ! ''
Unc ' Billy break off short , right in the very middle of his laugh .
He have just think of something , and it be n't funny at all .
With all those trap set at every opening to the hen-house , no one could get in without get caught , and of course no one who be in could get out without get caught !
The joke be n't on Farmer Brown 's boy , after all ; it be on Unc ' Billy Possum .
But Unc ' Billy could n't see that it be any joke at all .
Unc ' Billy be a prisoner , a prisoner in Farmer Brown 's hen-house , and he do n't know how ever he be go to get out of there .
`` It 's a long way home , '' say Unc ' Billy mournfully , a he peep out of a crack toward the Green Forest .
XIX WHAT THE SNOW DID Unc ' Billy Possum do a lot of thinking .
He be a prisoner , just as much a prisoner a if he be in a cage .
Now Unc ' Billy Possum would n't have mind be a prisoner in the hen-house but for two thing ; he be dreadfully afraid that his old friend and partner , Jimmy Skunk , would get hungry for egg and would get catch in the trap , and he be still more afraid that Farmer Brown 's boy would think to put his hand down under the hay in the last nest of the top row in the dark corner .
So Unc ' Billy spend most of his time study and thinking of some way to get out , and if he could n't do that , of some way to warn Jimmy Skunk to keep away from Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
If it have n't be for those two worry , Unc ' Billy would have be willing to stay there the rest of the winter .
It be delightfully warm and cosy .
He know which nest Mrs. Speckles always use and which one Mrs. Feathertoes like best , and he know that of all the egg lay in Farmer Brown 's hen-house those lay by Mrs. Speckles and Mrs. Feathertoes be the best .
Having all the egg he could eat , Unc ' Billy have grow very particular .
Nothing but the best , the very best , would do for him .
So he would lie curl up in the last nest of the top row in the darkest corner and wait until he hear the high-pitched voice of Mrs. Speckles proudly cry : `` Cut , cut , cut , cut , cut , cut-aa-cut !
I lay the fine egg in the world ! ''
Then Unc ' Billy would chuckle to himself and wait a few minute longer for the voice of Mrs. Feathertoes , say : `` Cut , cut , cut , cut , cut-aa-cut , cut , cut , cut !
No one lay such splendid egg a I do ! ''
Then , while Mrs. Speckles and Mrs. Feathertoes be dispute a to which lay the best egg , Unc ' Billy would slip out and breakfast on both those newly lay egg .
So for almost a week Unc ' Billy live in Farmer Brown 's hen-house and eat the egg of Mrs. Speckles and Mrs. Feathertoes and hid in the last nest of the top row in the darkest corner and shiver a he hear Farmer Brown 's boy tell what would happen if he catch the one who be steal those egg .
Sometimes the door be leave open during the day , and Unc ' Billy would peep out and wish that he dare to run .
But he do n't , for Bowser the Hound be always prowl around , and then again he be almost sure to be see by some one .
At last one day it begin to snow .
It snow all day and it snow all night .
Rough Brother North Wind pile it up in great drift in front of the hen-house door and all along one side of the hen-house .
It cover the trap so deep that they could n't possibly catch any one .
As soon a the snow stop fall , Unc ' Billy begin to dig his way up to the top from the very hole by which he have enter the hen-house .
He do n't like it , for he do n't like snow , but now be his chance to get away , and he mean to make the most of it .
XX UNC ' BILLY POSSUM WISHES HE HAD SNOWSHOES Unc ' Billy Possum do n't know whether he like the snow more than he hat it or hat it more than he like it , just now .
Usually he dislike the snow very much , and do n't go out in it any more than he have to .
But this time the snow have do Unc ' Billy a good turn , a very good turn , indeed .
Once out of the hen-house , Unc ' Billy lose no time in start for the Green Forest .
But it be slow , hard work .
You see , the snow be newly fall and very soft .
Of course Unc ' Billy sink into it almost up to his middle at every step .
He huff and he puff and he grunt and groan .
You see Unc ' Billy have sleep so much through the winter that he be not at all use to hard work of any kind , and he be n't half way to the Green Forest before he be so tired it seem to him that he could hardly move , and so out of breath that he could only gasp .
It be then that he be sure that he hat the snow more than he like it , even if it have set him free from the hen-house of Farmer Brown .
Now it never do to let one 's wit go to sleep .
Some folk call it forgetting , but forget be nothing but sleepy wit .
And sleepy wit get more people into trouble than anything else in the world .
Unc ' Billy Possum 's wit be asleep when he leave Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
If they have n't be , he would have remember this little saying : The wit that live within my head Must never , never go to sleep , For if they should I might forget And Trouble on me swiftly leap .
But Unc ' Billy 's wit certainly be asleep .
He be so tickle over the idea that he could get out of the hen-house , that he could n't think of anything else , and so he forget .
Yes , Sir , Unc ' Billy forget !
What do he forget ?
Why , he forget that that nice , soft snow , which so kindly bury the dreadful trap so that they could do no harm , could n't be wad through without leave track .
Unc ' Billy forget all about that , until he be half way to the Green Forest , and then , a he sit down to rest and get his breath , he remember .
-LSB- Illustration : There all the way from Farmer Brown 's hen-house be a broad trail in the smooth white snow . -RSB-
Unc ' Billy look behind him , and he turn pale .
Yes , Sir , Unc ' Billy Possum turn pale !
There , all the way from Farmer Brown 's hen-house , be a broad trail in the smooth white snow , where he have plow his way through .
If Farmer Brown 's boy should come out to look at his trap , he would see that track at once , and all he would have to do would be to follow it until it lead him to Unc ' Billy .
`` Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
Whatever do Ah leave the hen-house for ? ''
wail Unc ' Billy .
His wit be all wide awake now .
It would n't do to go back .
Farmer Brown 's boy would see that he have go back , and then he would hunt that hen-house through until he find Unc ' Billy .
No , there be nothing to do but to go on , and trust that Farmer Brown 's boy be so snow in and would be keep so busy shovel out path , that he would forget all about look at his trap .
Unc ' Billy draw a long breath and begin to wade ahead toward the Green Forest .
`` If Ah only have snowshoe ! ''
he pant .
`` If Ah only have snowshoe like Mrs. Grouse . ''
XXI FARMER BROWN 'S BOY CHOPS DOWN A TREE `` There be an old Possum live up in a tree ; Hi , ho , see the chip fly !
The sly old thief that you ever do see ; Hi , ho , see the chip fly !
He ate and he eat in the dark of the night , And when the day come not an egg be in sight , But now that I know where he 's make his bed , I 'll do without egg and will eat him instead !
Hi , ho , see the chip fly ! ''
Farmer Brown 's boy sang a he swing his keen axe , and the chip do fly .
They fly out on the white snow in all direction .
And the louder Farmer Brown 's boy sang , the fast the chip fly .
Farmer Brown 's boy have come to the Green Forest bright and early that morning , and he have make up his mind that he would take home a fat Possum for dinner .
He do n't have the least doubt about it , and that be why he sing a he make the chip fly .
He have track that Possum right up to that tree , and there be no track go away from it .
Right up near the top he could see a hollow , just such a hollow a a Possum like .
All he have to do be to cut the tree down and split it open , and Mr. Possum would be his .
So Farmer Brown 's boy swing his axe , chop , chop , chop , and the chip fly out on the white snow , and Farmer Brown 's boy sang , never once think of how the Possum he be after might feel .
Of course it be Unc ' Billy Possum whose track he have follow .
He have see them outside of the hen-house , just a Unc ' Billy have be afraid that he would .
He could n't very well have help it , those track be so very plain to be see .
That have be a long , hard , anxious journey for Unc ' Billy from Farmer Brown 's hen-house to the Green Forest .
The snow be so deep that he could hardly wade through it .
When he reach that hollow tree , he be so tired that it be all he could do to climb it .
Of course it be n't his own hollow tree , where old Mrs. Possum and the eight little Possums live .
He know good than to go there , leave a plain track for Farmer Brown 's boy to follow .
So he have be very thankful to climb up this hollow tree .
And , just a he have fear , there be Farmer Brown 's boy .
Chop , chop , chop !
The snow be cover with chip now .
Chop , chop , chop !
The tree begin to shiver and then to shake .
Cra-a-ck !
With a great crash over it go !
Bowser the Hound bark excitedly , and with Farmer Brown 's boy rush to the hollow near the top to catch Mr. Possum , if he should run out .
But he do n't run out .
Farmer Brown 's boy rap on the tree with the handle of his axe , but no one run out .
`` I guess he 's play dead , '' say Farmer Brown 's boy , and begin to split open the tree , so a to get into the hollow .
And a he chop , he begin to sing again .
Pretty soon he have split the tree wide open .
In the bottom of the hollow be an old nest of Chatterer the Red Squirrel , and that be all .
Farmer Brown 's boy rub his eye and star and star and star .
There be Unc ' Billy 's track lead straight up to that tree and none lead away .
Did that Possum have wing ?
XXII WHERE UNC ' BILLY POSSUM WAS Where be Unc ' Billy Possum ?
That be what Farmer Brown 's boy want to know .
That be what Bowser the Hound want to know .
Where be Unc ' Billy Possum ?
He be in another hollow tree all the time and laugh till his side ache a he peep out and saw how hard Farmer Brown 's boy work .
`` Ah do fool him that time , '' say Unc ' Billy , a he watch Farmer Brown 's boy wad off home through the snow , with Bowser the Hound at his heel .
`` You certainly do , Unc ' Billy !
How do you do it ? ''
ask a voice right over Unc ' Billy 's head .
Unc ' Billy look up in surprise .
There be Tommy Tit the Chickadee .
Unc ' Billy grin .
`` Ah just naturally expect Ah be gwine to have visitor , and so Ah prepare a little surprise .
Yes , Sah , Ah do prepare a little surprise .
Yo ' see , mah track in the snow be powerful plain .
Yes , Sah , they sho ` ly be !
When Ah have climb up that tree and look down and saw all those track what Ah do make , Ah begin to get powerful anxious .
Yes , Sah , Ah do get so anxious Ah just could n't get any rest in mah mind .
Ah know Farmer Brown 's boy be gwine to find those track , and when he do , he be gwine to follow 'em right smart quick .
Sho ' enough , just before sundown , here he come .
He follow mah track right up to the foot of the tree whar Ah be hide in the hollow , and Ah hear him say : `` So this be whar yo ' live , be it , Mistah Possum ?
Ah reckon Bowser and Ah 'll make yo ' a call to-morrow . ''
`` When I hear him say that , Ah felt right bad .
Yes , Sah , Ah sho ` ly do feel right smart bad .
Ah study and Ah study how Ah be gwine to fool Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound .
If Ah climb down and go somewhere else , Ah would have to leave track , and that boy do bound to find me just the same .
Ah do wish Ah have wing like yo ' and Brer Buzzard .
`` So po ' ol ' Unc ' Billy sit study and study and get mo ' and mo ' trouble in his mind .
By and by Ah notice that a branch from that holler tree rub against a branch of another tree , and a branch of that tree rubbed against a branch of another tree , and if Ah make a right smart jump from that Ah could get into this tree , which have a holler just make fo ' me .
Ah do n't waste no mo ' time studying .
No , Sah , Ah just move right away , and here Ah be . ''
`` And you do n't leave any track , and you do n't have any wing , '' say Tommy Tit the Chickadee .
`` No , '' say Unc ' Billy , `` but Ah do find that yo ' can most always find a way out , if yo ' look hard enough .
Just now , Ah be look right smart hard fo ' a way to get home , but Ah reckon mah eyesight be fail ; Ah don ' see any yet . ''
`` Dee , dee , dee ! ''
laugh Tommy Tit merrily .
`` Be patient , Unc ' Billy , and perhaps you will . ''
XXIII HAPPY JACK SQUIRREL MAKES AN UNEXPECTED CALL Happy Jack Squirrel like the snow .
He always have like the snow .
It make him feel frisky .
He like to run and jump in it and dig little hole in it after nut , which he hide under the leaf before the snow fell .
When his foot get cold , all he have to do be to scamper up a tree and warm them in his own fur coat .
So the big snowstorm which make so much trouble for Unc ' Billy Possum just suit Happy Jack Squirrel , and he have a whole lot of fun make his funny little track all through that part of the Green Forest in which he live .
Happy Jack do n't know anything about Unc ' Billy Possum 's trouble .
He suppose that Unc ' Billy be safe at home in his own big hollow tree , fast asleep , a he have be most of the winter .
Happy Jack could n't understand how anybody could want to sleep such fine weather , but that be their own business , and Happy Jack have learn a long time ago not to worry about other people 's business .
After frisk about he would stop to rest .
Then he would sit up very straight and fold his hand across his breast , where they would get nice and warm in the fur of his coat .
His beautiful , great gray tail would be arch up over his back .
His bright eye would snap and twinkle , and then he would shout just for joy , and every time he shout he jerk his big tail .
Farmer Brown 's boy call it barking , but it be Happy Jack 's way of shout .
`` I love to romp !
I love to play !
I 'm happy , happy , all the day !
I love the snow , so soft and white !
I love the sun that shin so bright !
I love the whole world , for , you see , The world be very good to me ! ''
By and by Happy Jack come to the hollow tree that Farmer Brown 's boy have cut down because he think that Unc ' Billy Possum be inside of it .
`` Hello ! ''
exclaim Happy Jack .
`` That 's one of the old storehouse of my cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel !
I 've get an old storehouse near here , and I guess I 'll see if I have leave any nut in it . ''
He scamper over to another hollow tree stand near .
He scamper up the tree a only Happy Jack can and whisk in at the open doorway of the hollow .
Now Happy Jack have be in that hollow tree so often that he do n't once think of look to see where he be go , and he land plump on something that be soft and warm !
Happy Jack be so surprised that he do n't know what to do for a second .
And then all in a flash that something soft and warm be full of sharp claw and sharp teeth , and an angry growling till the hollow tree .
Happy Jack be so frightened that he scramble out as fast a he could .
When he be safely outside , he grow very angry to think that any one should be in his storehouse , even if it be an old one .
He could hear a very angry voice inside , and in a minute who should appear at the doorway but Unc ' Billy Possum .
Unc ' Billy have be wake out of a sound sleep , and that be enough to make any one cross .
Besides , he have be badly frighten , and that make him crosser still .
`` What do yo ' mean by try to frighten honest people ? ''
snap Unc ' Billy , when he catch sight of Happy Jack .
`` What do you mean by steal into other folk 's house ? ''
demand Happy Jack , just a angrily .
XXIV HAPPY JACK SQUIRREL HELPS UNC ' BILLY POSSUM It be very startling , very startle indeed , to rush into your own storehouse , which you have suppose be empty , and run right into some one sleeping there a if he own it .
It be enough to make any one lose his temper .
Happy Jack Squirrel lose his .
And it be very startling , very startling , indeed , to be waken out of pleasant dream of warm summer day by have some one suddenly jump on you .
It be enough to make any one lose his temper .
Unc ' Billy Possum lose his .
So Happy Jack sit outside on a branch of the hollow tree where his old storehouse be and scold , and call Unc ' Billy Possum name , and jerk his tail angrily with every word he say .
And Unc ' Billy Possum sit in the doorway of the hollow tree and show his teeth to Happy Jack and say unpleasant thing .
It really be very dreadful the way those two do talk .
But Unc ' Billy Possum be really very good-natured , and when he have get over the fright Happy Jack have give him and begin to understand that he be in one of Happy Jack 's storehouse , all his temper vanish , and presently he begin to grin and then to laugh .
Now it always take two to make a quarrel , and one of the hard thing in the world be to keep cross when the one you be cross with wo n't keep cross , too .
Happy Jack try hard to stay angry , but every time he look at Unc ' Billy Possum 's twinkle eye and broad grin , Happy Jack lose a little of his own temper .
Pretty soon he be laugh just as hard a Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` Ho , ho , ho !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
they laugh together .
Finally they have to stop for breath .
`` What be you do in my storehouse , Unc ' Billy ? ''
ask Happy Jack , when he could stop laughing .
Then Unc ' Billy tell him all about how he have climb there from another tree , so a to leave no track in the snow for Farmer Brown 's boy to follow .
`` But now Ah want to go to mah own home in the big hollow tree way down in the Green Forest , but Ah ca n't , on account of mah track in the snow , '' conclude Unc ' Billy mournfully .
Happy Jack put his head on one side and think very hard .
`` Why do n't you stay right here until the snow go , Unc ' Billy ? ''
he ask .
`` Because Ah ` spects that mah ol ' woman be worry most to death , '' say Unc ' Billy , in a mournful voice .
`` Besides , '' he add , `` Ah just do find out that this right nice lil ' house belongs to one of mah neighbor . ''
There be a twinkle in Unc ' Billy 's eye .
Happy Jack laugh .
`` You 're welcome to stay as long a you like , Unc ' Billy , '' he say .
`` You better stay right where you be , and I 'll go tell old Mrs. Possum where you be . ''
`` Thank yo ' !
Thank yo ' !
That be very kind of yo ' , Brer Squirrel .
That will be a great help , fo ' it will lift a great load off mah mind , '' say Unc ' Billy .
`` Do n't mention it , Unc ' Billy ! ''
reply Happy Jack and start off with the message to old Mrs. Possum , and a he scamper through the snow he say : `` To get yourself in trouble be a very easy thing .
I notice that to others it will always worry bring .
But get out of trouble 's always quite the other way -- The more you try to wriggle out , the long you must stay . ''
XXV HAPPY JACK SQUIRREL 'S BRIGHT IDEA Happy Jack Squirrel frisk along through the snow on his way to Unc ' Billy Possum 's house in the big hollow tree in the Green Forest to tell old Mrs. Possum that Unc ' Billy be safe in another hollow tree on the edge of the Green Forest , but that he do n't dare to come home because he would leave track in the snow .
He find old Mrs. Possum very much worried and very much out of sort .
You see Unc ' Billy have be go a long time for him , and she do n't know what have become of him .
Now of course old Mrs. Possum be very much relieve when she hear that Unc ' Billy be safe , for she have be afraid that something dreadful have happen to him .
But just as soon a she know that he be safe , she forget all about how worried she have be .
All she think of be how Unc ' Billy have go to get some fresh egg to put in his own stomach and leave her to take care of herself and eight baby Possums .
`` Yo ' tell Unc ' Billy Possum that Ah don ' care if he never come back .
Ah do get other thing to bother about more 'n a worthless , no ` count Possum what don ' take care of his fam ` ly , '' she say crossly , and hurry into the house to see that the eight little Possums be properly tuck in bed , for it be a cold day , and the eight little Possums have to stay in bed to keep warm .
Happy Jack chuckle a he start back to tell Unc ' Billy Possum .
He know perfectly well that old Mrs. Possum do n't mean what she say .
He know that Unc ' Billy would know that she do n't mean it .
But he know , and he know that Unc ' Billy know , that when he do get home , he would get a great scolding .
Then all of a sudden Happy Jack thought of a way for Unc ' Billy to get home without wait until the snow melt away .
That might be a very long time , for there be a great deal of snow on the ground .
What do you suppose give Happy Jack his idea ?
Why , a tiny little snowflake that hit Happy Jack right on the end of his nose !
Yes , Sir , it be that tiny little snowflake that give Happy Jack Squirrel his bright idea .
He hurry back to the hollow tree where Unc ' Billy be hide and scramble up to the doorway .
`` Hello , Unc ' Billy !
You can go home to-night ! ''
he shout .
Unc ' Billy Possum stick his head out of the doorway .
`` What 's that yo ' say , Brer Squirrel ? ''
he say .
`` Ah don ' see a the snow have go away , and your track be powerful plain to see , and Ah make big track than yo ' , Brer Squirrel . ''
`` Just look up in the sky , Unc ' Billy ! ''
say Happy Jack .
Unc ' Billy look .
The sky be full of dance snowflake .
They get in his eye and clung to his whisker .
Unc ' Billy shake his head in disgust .
`` Ah don ' see anything but mo ' snow , and yo ' know Ah don ' like snow ! ''
he say .
`` What yo ' driving at , Brer Squirrel ? ''
Happy Jack laugh .
`` Why , it 's just as simple a can be , Unc ' Billy ! ''
he cry .
`` Just as soon a it 's dark , you start for home .
It 's go to snow all night , and in the morning there wo n't be any track .
The snowflake will have cover them all up . ''
Unc ' Billy grin .
`` Ah believe yo ' be right , Brer Squirrel , Ah believe yo ' be right ! ''
say Unc ' Billy .
And Happy Jack be right , for Unc ' Billy get safely home that very night , and the next morning , when Farmer Brown 's boy visit the Green Forest , there be n't a footprint to be see anywhere .
So Unc ' Billy Possum learn how easy it be to get into trouble and how hard to get out of it .
But he be n't the only one who have find this out .
Just ask Unc ' Billy 's particular friend , Mistah Mocker the Mocking Bird .
He will tell you the very same thing .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Whitefoot_the_Wood_Mouse.txt.out
CHAPTER I : Whitefoot Spends A Happy Winter In all his short life Whitefoot the Wood Mouse never have spend such a happy winter .
Whitefoot be one of those wise little people who never allow unpleasant thing of the past to spoil their present happiness , and who never borrow trouble from the future .
Whitefoot believe in get the most from the present .
The thing which be past be past , and that be all there be to it .
There be no use in think about them .
As for the thing of the future , it will be time enough to think about them when they happen .
If you and I have a many thing to worry about a do Whitefoot the Wood Mouse , we probably never would be happy at all .
But Whitefoot be happy whenever he have a chance to be , and in this he be wise than most human being .
You see , there be not one of all the little people in the Green Forest who have so many enemy to watch out for as have Whitefoot .
There be ever so many who would like nothing good than to dine on plump little Whitefoot .
There be Buster Bear and Billy Mink and Shadow the Weasel and Unc ' Billy Possum and Hooty the Owl and all the member of the Hawk family , not to mention Blacky the Crow in time when other food be scarce .
Reddy and Granny Fox and Old Man Coyote be always look for him .
So you see Whitefoot never know at what instant he may have to run for his life .
That be why he be such a timid little fellow and be always run away at the least little unexpected sound .
In spite of all this he be a happy little chap .
It be early in the winter that Whitefoot find a little hole in a corner of Farmer Brown 's sugar-house and creep inside to see what it be like in there .
It do n't take him long to decide that it be the most delightful place he ever have find .
He promptly decide to move in and spend the winter .
In one end of the sugar-house be a pile of wood .
Down under this Whitefoot make himself a warm , comfortable nest .
It be a regular castle to Whitefoot .
He move over to it the store of seed he have lay up for winter use .
Not one of his enemy ever think of visit the sugar-house in search of Whitefoot , and they would n't have be able to get in if they have .
When rough Brother North Wind howl outside , and sleet and snow be make other little people shiver , Whitefoot be warm and comfortable .
There be all the room he need or want in which to run about and play .
He could go outside when he choose to , but he do n't choose to very often .
For day at a time he do n't have a single fright .
Yes indeed , Whitefoot spend a happy winter .
CHAPTER II : Whitefoot Sees Queer Things Whitefoot have spend the winter undisturbed in Farmer Brown 's sugar-house .
He have almost forget the meaning of fear .
He have come to look on that sugar-house a belong to him .
It be n't until Farmer Brown 's boy come over to prepare thing for sugar that Whitefoot get a single real fright .
The instant Farmer Brown 's boy open the door , Whitefoot scamper down under the pile of wood to his snug little nest , and there he lay , listen to the strange sound .
At last he could stand it no longer and creep to a place where he could peep out and see what be go on .
It do n't take him long to discover that this great two-legged creature be not look for him , and right away he felt well .
After a while Farmer Brown 's boy go away , and Whitefoot have the little sugar-house to himself again .
But Farmer Brown 's boy have carelessly leave the door wide open .
Whitefoot do n't like that open door .
It make him nervous .
There be nothing to prevent those who hunt him from walk right in .
So the rest of that night Whitefoot felt uncomfortable and anxious .
He felt still more anxious when next day Farmer Brown 's boy return and become very busy put thing to right .
Then Farmer Brown himself come and strange thing begin to happen .
It become as warm a in summer .
You see Farmer Brown have build a fire under the evaporator .
Whitefoot 's curiosity keep him at a place where he could peep out and watch all that be do .
He saw Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy pour pail of sap into a great pan .
By and by a delicious odor fill the sugar-house .
It do n't take him a great while to discover that these two-legged creature be so busy that he have nothing to fear from them , and so he creep out to watch .
He saw them draw the golden syrup from one end of the evaporator and fill shin tin can with it .
Day after day they do the same thing .
At night when they have leave and all be quiet inside the sugar-house , Whitefoot steal out and found delicious crumb where they have eat their lunch .
He taste that thick golden stuff and find it sweet and good .
Later he watch them make sugar and nearly make himself sick that night when they have go home , for they have leave some of that sugar where he could get at it .
He do n't understand these queer doings at all .
But he be no long afraid .
CHAPTER III : Farmer Brown 's Boy Becomes Acquainted It do n't take Farmer Brown 's boy long to discover that Whitefoot the Wood Mouse be live in the little sugar-house .
He catch glimpse of Whitefoot peep out at him .
Now Farmer Brown 's boy be wise in the way of the little people of the Green Forest .
Right away he make up his mind to get acquaint with Whitefoot .
He know that not in all the Green Forest be there a more timid little fellow than Whitefoot , and he think it would be a fine thing to be able to win the confidence of such a shy little chap .
So at first Farmer Brown 's boy pay no attention whatever to Whitefoot .
He take care that Whitefoot should n't even know that he have be see .
Every day when he eat his lunch , Farmer Brown 's boy scatter a lot of crumb close to the pile of wood under which Whitefoot have make his home .
Then he and Farmer Brown would go out to collect sap .
When they return not a crumb would be leave .
One day Farmer Brown 's boy scatter some particularly delicious crumb .
Then , instead of go out , he sit down on a bench and keep perfectly still .
Farmer Brown and Bowser the Hound go out .
Of course Whitefoot hear them go out , and right away he poke his little head out from under the pile of wood to see if the way be clear .
Farmer Brown 's boy sit there right in plain sight , but Whitefoot do n't see him .
That be because Farmer Brown 's boy do n't move the least bit .
Whitefoot run out and at once begin to eat those delicious crumb .
When he have fill his little stomach , he begin to carry the remainder back to his storehouse underneath the woodpile .
While he be go on one of these trip , Farmer Brown 's boy scatter more crumb in a line that lead right up to his foot .
Right there he place a big piece of bread crust .
Whitefoot be work so hard and so fast to get all those delicious bit of food that he take no notice of anything else until he reach that piece of crust .
Then he happen to look up right into the eye of Farmer Brown 's boy .
With a frightened little squeak Whitefoot dart back , and for a long time he be afraid to come out again .
But Farmer Brown 's boy do n't move , and at last Whitefoot could stand the temptation no longer .
He dart out halfway , scurry back , come out again , and at last venture right up to the crust .
Then he begin to drag it back to the woodpile .
Still Farmer Brown 's boy do not move .
For two or three day the same thing happen .
By this time , Whitefoot have lose all fear .
He know that Farmer Brown 's boy would not harm him , and it be not long before he venture to take a bit of food from Farmer Brown 's boy 's hand .
After that Farmer Brown 's boy take care that no crumb should be scatter on the ground .
Whitefoot have to come to him for his food , and always Farmer Brown 's boy have something delicious for him .
CHAPTER IV : Whitefoot Grows Anxious 'T be sad indeed to trust a friend Then have that trust abruptly end .
-- Whitefoot I know of nothing that be more sad than to feel that a friend be no long to be trust .
There come a time when Whitefoot the Wood Mouse almost have this feeling .
It be a very , very anxious time for Whitefoot .
You see , Whitefoot and Farmer Brown 's boy have become the very best of friend there in the little sugar-house .
They have become such good friend that Whitefoot do not hesitate to take food from the hand of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Never in all his life have he have so much to eat or such good thing to eat .
He be get so fat that his handsome little coat be uncomfortably tight .
He run about fearlessly while Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy be make maple syrup and maple sugar .
He have even lose his fear of Bowser the Hound , for Bowser have pay no attention to him whatever .
Now you remember that Whitefoot have make his home way down beneath the great pile of wood in the sugar-house .
Of course Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy use that wood for the fire to boil the sap to make the syrup and sugar .
Whitefoot think nothing of this until one day he discover that his little home be no longer as dark a it have be .
A little ray of light creep down between the stick .
Presently another little ray of light creep down between the stick .
It be then that Whitefoot begin to grow anxious .
It be then he realize that that pile of wood be grow small and small , and if it keep on grow small , by and by there would n't be any pile of wood and his little home would n't be hide at all .
Of course Whitefoot do n't understand why that wood be slip away .
In spite of himself he begin to grow suspicious .
He could n't think of any reason why that wood should be take away , unless it be to look for his little home .
Farmer Brown 's boy be just a kind and friendly a ever , but all the time more and more light crept in , a the wood vanish .
`` Oh dear , what do it mean ? ''
cried Whitefoot to himself .
`` They must be look for my home , yet they have be so good to me that it be hard to believe they mean any harm .
I do hope they will stop take this wood away .
I wo n't have any hiding-place at all , and then I will have to go outside back to my old home in the hollow stump .
I do n't want to do that .
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
I be so happy and now I be so worried !
Why ca n't happy time last always ? ''
CHAPTER V : The End Of Whitefoot 's Worries You never can tell !
You never can tell !
Things go wrong will often end well .
-- Whitefoot .
The next time you meet him just ask Whitefoot if this be n't so .
Things have be go very wrong for Whitefoot .
It have begin to look to Whitefoot a if he would no longer have a snug , hidden little home in Farmer Brown 's sugar-house .
The pile of wood under which he have make that snug little home be disappear so fast that it begin to look a if in a little while there would be no wood at all .
Whitefoot quite lose his appetite .
He no longer come out to take food from Farmer Brown 's boy 's hand .
He stay right in his snug little home and worry .
Now Farmer Brown 's boy have not once think of the trouble he be make .
He wonder what have become of Whitefoot , and in his turn he begin to worry .
He be afraid that something have happen to his little friend .
He be think of this a he feed the stick of wood to the fire for boil the sap to make syrup and sugar .
Finally , a he pull away two big stick , he saw something that make him whistle with surprise .
It be Whitefoot 's nest which he have so cleverly hidden way down underneath that pile of wood when he have first move into the sugar-house .
With a frightened little squeak , Whitefoot run out , scurry across the little sugar-house and out though the open door .
Farmer Brown 's boy understood .
He understand perfectly that little people like Whitefoot want their home hide away in the dark .
`` Poor little chap , '' say Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` He have a regular castle here and we have destroy it .
He 's get the snug kind of a little nest here , but he wo n't come back to it so long a it be right out in plain sight .
He probably think we have be hunt for this little home of his .
Hello !
Here 's his storehouse !
I 've often wonder how the little rascal could eat so much , but now I understand .
He store away here more than half of the good thing I have give him .
I be glad he do .
If he have n't , he might not come back , but I feel sure that to-night , when all be quiet , he will come back to take away all his food .
I must do something to keep him here . ''
Farmer Brown 's boy sit down to think thing over .
Then he get an old box and make a little round hole in one end of it .
Very carefully he take up Whitefoot 's nest and place it under the old box in the dark corner of the sugar-house .
Then he carry all Whitefoot 's supply over there and put them under the box .
He go outside , and get some branch of hemlock and throw these in a little pile over the box .
After this he scatter some crumb just outside .
Late that night Whitefoot do come back .
The crumb lead him to the old box .
He creep inside .
There be his snug little home !
All in a second Whitefoot understood , and trust and happiness return .
CHAPTER VI : A Very Careless Jump Whitefoot once more be happy .
When he find his snug little nest and his store of food under that old box in the dark corner of Farmer Brown 's sugar-house , he know that Farmer Brown 's boy must have place them there .
It be well than the old place under the woodpile .
It be the best place for a home Whitefoot ever have have .
It do n't take him long to change his mind about leave the little sugar-house .
Somehow he seem to know right down inside that his home would not again be disturb .
So he proceed to rearrange his nest and to put all his supply of food in one corner of the old box .
When everything be place to suit him he venture out , for now that he no longer feared Farmer Brown 's boy he want to see all that be go on .
He like to jump up on the bench where Farmer Brown 's boy sometimes sit .
He would climb up to where Farmer Brown 's boy 's coat hung and explore the pocket of it .
Once he steal Farmer Brown 's boy 's handkerchief .
He want it to add to the material his nest be make of .
Farmer Brown 's boy discover it just a it be disappear , and how he laugh a he pull it away .
So , what with eating and sleeping and play about , secure in the feeling that no harm could come to him , Whitefoot be happy than ever before in his little life .
He know that Farmer Brown 's boy and Farmer Brown and Bowser the Hound be his friend .
He know , too , that so long a they be about , none of his enemy would dare come near .
This be so , of course there be nothing to be afraid of .
No harm could possibly come to him .
At least , that be what Whitefoot think .
But you know , enemy be not the only danger to watch out for .
Accidents will happen .
When they do happen , it be very likely to be when the possibility of them be farthest from your thought .
Almost always they be due to heedlessness or carelessness .
It be heedlessness that get Whitefoot into one of the bad mishap of his whole life .
He have be run and jump all around the inside of the little sugar-house .
He love to run and jump , and he have be have just the best time ever .
Finally Whitefoot run along the old bench and jump from the end of it for a box stand on end , which Farmer Brown 's boy sometimes use to sit on .
It be n't a very long jump , but somehow Whitefoot misjudge it .
He be heedless , and he do n't jump quite far enough .
Right beside that box be a tin pail half fill with sap .
Instead of land on the box , Whitefoot land with a splash in that pail of sap .
CHAPTER VII : Whitefoot Gives Up Hope Whitefoot have be in many tight place .
Yes , indeed , Whitefoot have be in many tight place .
He have have narrow escape of all kind .
But never have he felt so utterly hopeless a now .
The moment he land in that sap , Whitefoot begin to swim frantically .
He be n't a particularly good swimmer , but he could swim well enough to keep afloat for a while .
His first thought be to scramble up the side of the tin pail , but when he reach it and try to fasten his sharp little claw into it in order to climb , he discover that he could n't .
Sharp a they be , his little claw just slip , and his struggle to get up only result in tire him out and in plunge him wholly beneath the sap .
He come up choking and gasping .
Then round and round inside that pail he paddle , stop every two or three second to try to climb up that hateful , smooth , shiny wall .
The more he try to climb out , the more frightened he become .
He be in a perfect panic of fear .
He quite lose his head , do Whitefoot .
The harder he struggle , the more tired he become , and the great be his danger of drowning .
Whitefoot squeak pitifully .
He do n't want to drown .
Of course not .
He want to live .
But unless he could get out of that pail very soon , he would drown .
He know it .
He know that he could n't hold on much long .
He know that just as soon a he stop paddle , he would sink .
Already he be so tired from his frantic effort to escape that it seem to him that he could n't hold out any longer .
But somehow he keep his legs moving , and so kept afloat .
Just why he keep struggle , Whitefoot could n't have tell .
It be n't because he have any hope .
He do n't have the least bit of hope .
He know now that he could n't climb the side of that pail , and there be no other way of get out .
Still he keep on paddling .
It be the only way to keep from drown , and though he felt sure that he have get to drown at last , he just would n't until he actually have to .
And all the time Whitefoot squeak hopelessly , despairingly , pitifully .
He do it without know that he do it , just a he keep paddle round and round .
CHAPTER VIII : The Rescue When Whitefoot make the heedless jump that land him in a pail half fill with sap , no one else be in the little sugar-house .
Whitefoot be quite alone .
You see , Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy be out collect sap from the tree , and Bowser the Hound be with them .
Farmer Brown 's boy be the first to return .
He come in just after Whitefoot have give up all hope .
He go at once to the fire to put more wood on .
As he finish this job he hear the faint of little squeak .
It be a very pitiful little squeak .
Farmer Brown 's boy stand perfectly still and listen .
He hear it again .
He know right away that it be the voice of Whitefoot .
`` Hello ! ''
exclaim Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` That sound a if Whitefoot be in trouble of some kind .
I wonder where the little rascal be .
I wonder what can have happen to him .
I must look into this . ''
Again Farmer Brown 's boy heard that faint little squeak .
It be so faint that he could n't tell where it come from .
Hurriedly and anxiously he look all over the little sugar-house , stop every few second to listen for that pitiful little squeak .
It seem to come from nowhere in particular .
Also it be grow fainter .
At last Farmer Brown 's boy happen to stand still close to that tin pail half fill with sap .
He hear the faint little squeak again and with it a little splash .
It be the sound of the little splash that lead him to look down .
In a flash he understand what have happen .
He saw poor little Whitefoot struggle feebly , and even a he look Whitefoot 's head go under .
He be very nearly drown .
Stooping quickly , Farmer Brown 's boy grab Whitefoot 's long tail and pull him out .
Whitefoot be so nearly drown that he do n't have strength enough to even kick .
A great pity fill the eye of Farmer Brown 's boy a he hold Whitefoot 's head down and gently shake him .
He be try to shake some of the sap out of Whitefoot .
It run out of Whitefoot 's nose and out of his mouth .
Whitefoot begin to gasp .
Then Farmer Brown 's boy spread his coat close by the fire , roll Whitefoot up in his handkerchief and gently place him on the coat .
For some time Whitefoot lay just gasping .
But presently his breath come easy , and after a while he be breathe naturally .
But he be too weak and tire to move , so he just lay there while Farmer Brown 's boy gently stroke his head and tell him how sorry he be .
Little by little Whitefoot recover his strength .
At last he could sit up , and finally he begin to move about a little , although he be still wobbly on his leg .
Farmer Brown 's boy put some bit of food where Whitefoot could get them , and a he eat , Whitefoot 's beautiful soft eye be fill with gratitude .
CHAPTER IX : Two Timid Persons Meet Thus always you will meet life 's test -- To do the thing you can do best .
-- Whitefoot .
Jumper the Hare sit crouch at the foot of a tree in the Green Forest .
Had you happen along there , you would not have see him .
At least , I doubt if you would .
If you have see him , you probably would n't have know it .
You see , in his white coat Jumper be so exactly the color of the snow that he look like nothing more than a little heap of snow .
Just in front of Juniper be a little round hole .
He give it no attention .
It do n't interest him in the least .
All through the Green Forest be little hole in the snow .
Jumper be so used to them that he seldom notice them .
So he take no notice of this one until something move down in that hole .
Jumper 's eye open a little wider and he watch .
A sharp little face with very bright eye fill that little round hole .
Jumper move just the tiny bit , and in a flash that sharp little face with the bright eye disappear .
Jumper sit still and wait .
After a long wait the sharp little face with bright eye appear again .
`` Do n't be frighten , Whitefoot , '' say Jumper softly .
At the first word the sharp little face disappear , but in a moment it be back , and the sharp little eye be fix on Jumper suspiciously .
After a long stare the suspicion leave them , and out of the little round hole come trim little Whitefoot in a soft brown coat with white waistcoat and with white foot and a long , slim tail .
This winter he be not live in Farmer Brown 's sugarhouse .
`` Gracious , Jumper , how you do scare me ! ''
say he .
Jumper chuckle .
`` Whitefoot , I believe you be more timid than I be , '' he reply .
`` Why should n't I be ?
I 'm ever so much small , and I have more enemy , '' retort Whitefoot .
`` It be true you be small , but I be not so sure that you have more enemy , '' reply Jumper thoughtfully .
`` It sometimes seem to me that I could n't have more , especially in winter . ''
`` Name them , '' command Whitefoot .
`` Hooty the Great Horned Owl , Yowler the Bob Cat , Old Man Coyote , Reddy Fox , Terror the Goshawk , Shadow the Weasel , Billy Mink . ''
Jumper pause .
`` Is that all ? ''
demanded Whitefoot .
`` Is n't that enough ? ''
retort Jumper rather sharply .
`` I have all of those and Blacky the Crow and Butcher the Shrike and Sammy Jay in winter , and Buster Hear and Jimmy Skunk and several of the Snake family in summer , '' reply Whitefoot .
`` It seem to me sometimes a if I need eye and ear all over me .
Night and day there be always some one hunting for poor little me .
And then some folk wonder why I be so timid .
If I be not as timid a I be , I would n't be alive now ; I would have be catch long ago .
Folks may laugh at me for be so easily frighten , but I do n't care .
That be what save my life a dozen time a day . ''
Jumper look interested .
`` I have n't think of that , '' say he .
`` I 'm a very timid person myself , and sometimes I have be ashamed of be so easily frighten .
But come to think of it , I guess you be right ; the more timid I be , the long I be likely to live . ''
Whitefoot suddenly dart into his hole .
Jumper do n't move , but his eye widen with fear .
A great white bird have just alight on a stump a short distance away .
It be Whitey the Snowy Owl , down from the Far North .
`` There be another enemy we both forget , '' think Jumper , and try not to shiver .
CHAPTER X : The White Watchers Much may be gain by sit still If you but have the strength of will .
-- Whitefoot .
Jumper the Hare crouch at the foot of a tree in the Green Forest , and a little way from him on a stump sit Whitey the Snowy Owl .
Had you be there to see them , both would have appear as white a the snow around them unless you have look very closely .
Then you might have see two narrow black line back of Jumper 's head .
They be the tip of his ear , for these remain black .
And near the upper part of the white mound which be Whitey you might have see two round yellow spot , his eye .
There they be for all the world like two little heap of snow .
Jumper do n't move so much a a hair .
Whitey do n't move so much a a feather .
Both be wait and watch .
Jumper do n't move because he know that Whitey be there .
Whitey do n't move because he do n't want any one to know he be there , and do n't know that Jumper be there .
Jumper be sit still because he be afraid .
Whitey be sit still because he be hungry .
So there they sit , each in plain sight of the other but only one see the other .
This be because Juniper have be fortunate enough to see Whitey alight on that stump .
Jumper have be sit still when Whitey arrive , and so those fierce yellow eye have not yet see him .
But have Jumper so much a lifted one of those long ear , Whitey would have see , and his great claw would have be reach for Jumper .
Jumper do n't want to sit still .
No , indeed !
He want to run .
You know it be on those long leg of his that Jumper depend almost wholly for safety .
But there be time for run and time for sit still , and this be a time for sit still .
He know that Whitey do n't know that he be anywhere near .
But just the same it be hard , very hard to sit there with one he so greatly feared watch so near .
It seem a if those fierce yellow eye of Whitey must see him .
They seem to look right through him .
They make him shake inside .
`` I want to run .
I want to run .
I want to run , '' Jumper keep say to himself .
Then he would say , `` But I must n't .
I must n't .
I must n't . ''
And so Jumper do the hard thing in the world , -- sit still and stared danger in the face .
He be sit still to save his life .
Whitey the Snowy Owl be sit still to catch a dinner .
I know that sound queer , but it be so .
He know that so long a he sit still , he be not likely to be see .
It be for this purpose that Old Mother Nature have give him that coat of white .
In the Far North , which be his real home , everything be white for month and month , and any one dress in a dark suit can be see a long distance .
So Whitey have be give that white coat that he might have a good chance to catch food enough to keep him alive .
And he have learn how to make the best use of it .
Yes , indeed , he know how to make the best use of it .
It be by do just what he be do now , -- sit perfectly still .
Just before he have alight on that stump he have see something move at the entrance to a little round hole in the snow .
He be sure of it .
`` A Mouse , '' think Whitey , and alight on that stump .
`` He saw me fly , but he 'll forget about it after a while and will come out again .
He wo n't see me then if I do n't move .
And I wo n't move until he be far enough from that hole for me to catch him before he can get back to it . ''
So the two watcher in white sat without move for the long time , one watching for a dinner and the other watch the other watcher .
CHAPTER XI : Jumper Is In Doubt When doubtful what course to pursue 'T be sometimes best to nothing do .
-- Whitefoot .
Jumper the Hare be begin to feel easier in his mind .
He be no longer shake inside .
In fact , he be begin to feel quite safe .
There he be in plain sight of Whitey the Snowy Owl , sit motionless on a stump only a short distance away , yet Whitey have n't see him .
Whitey have look straight at him many time , but because Jumper have not move so much a a hair Whitey have mistake him for a little heap of snow .
`` All I have to do be to keep right on sit perfectly still , and I 'll be as safe a if Whitey be nowhere about .
Yes , sir , I will , '' think Jumper .
`` By and by he will become tired and fly away .
I do hope he 'll do that before Whitefoot come out again .
If Whitefoot should come out , I could n't warn him because that would draw Whitey 's attention to me , and he would n't look twice at a Wood Mouse when there be a chance to get a Hare for his dinner .
`` This be a queer world .
It be so .
Old Mother Nature do queer thing .
Here she have give me a white coat in winter so that I may not be easily see when there be snow on the ground , and at the same time she have give one of those I fear most a white coat so that he may not be easily see , either .
It certainly be a queer world . ''
Jumper forget that Whitey be only a chance visitor from the Far North and that it be only once in a great while that he come down there , while up in the Far North where he belong nearly everybody be dress in white .
Jumper have n't move once , but once in a while Whitey turn his great round head for a look all about in every direction .
But it be do in such a way that only eye watch him sharply would have notice it .
Most of the time he keep his fierce yellow eye fix on the little hole in the snow in which Whitefoot have disappear .
You know Whitey can see by day quite as well a any other bird .
Jumper , have stop worry about himself , begin to worry about Whitefoot .
He know that Whitefoot have see Whitey arrive on that stump and that be why he have dodge back into his hole and since then have not even poke his nose out .
But that have be so long ago that by this time Whitefoot must think that Whitey have go on about his business , and Jumper expect to see Whitefoot appear any moment .
What Jumper do n't know be that Whitefoot 's bright little eye have all the time be watch Whitey from another little hole in the snow some distance away .
A tunnel lead from this little hole to the first little hole .
Suddenly off among the tree something move .
At least , Jumper think he saw something move .
Yes , there it be , a little black spot move swiftly this way and that way over the snow .
Jumper star very hard .
And then his heart seem to jump right up in his throat .
It do so .
He felt a if he would choke .
That black spot be the tip end of a tail , the tail of a small , very slim fellow dress all in white , the only other one in all the Green Forest who dress all in white .
It be Shadow the Weasel !
In his white winter coat he be call Ermine .
He be run this way and that way , back and forth , with his nose to the snow .
He be hunt , and Jumper know that sooner or later Shadow would find him .
Safety from Shadow lay in make the best possible use of those long leg of his , but to do that would bring Whitey the Owl swooping after him .
What to do Jumper do n't know .
And so he do nothing .
It happen to be the wise thing he could do .
CHAPTER XII : Whitey The Owl Saves Jumper It often happen in the end An enemy may prove a friend .
-- Whitefoot .
Was ever any one in a bad position than Jumper the Hare ?
To move would be to give himself away to Whitey the Snowy Owl .
If he remain where he be very likely Shadow the Weasel would find him , and the result would be the same a if he be catch by Whitey the Owl .
Neither Whitey nor Shadow know he be there , but it would be only a few minute before one of them know it .
At least , that be the way it look to Jumper .
Whitey would n't know it unless he move , but Shadow the Weasel would find his track , and his nose would lead him straight there .
Back and forth , back and forth , this way , that way and the other way , just a little distance off , Shadow be run with his nose to the snow .
He be hunt -- hunt for the scent of some one whom he could kill .
In a few minute he would be sure to find where Jumper have be , and then his nose would lead him straight to that tree at the foot of which Jumper be crouch .
Nearer and nearer come Shadow .
He be slim and trim and do n't look at all terrible .
Yet there be no one in all the Green Forest more fear by the little people in fur , by Jumper , by Peter Rabbit , by Whitefoot , even by Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
`` Perhaps , '' think Jumper , `` he wo n't find my scent after all .
Perhaps he 'll go in another direction . ''
But all the time Jumper felt in his bone that Shadow would find that scent .
`` When he do , I 'll run , '' say Jumper to himself .
`` I 'll have at least a chance to dodge Whitey .
I be afraid he will catch me , but I 'll have a chance .
I wo n't have any chance at all if Shadow find me . ''
Suddenly Shadow stop run and sit up to look about with fierce little eye , all the time test the air with his nose .
Jumper 's heart sank .
He know that Shadow have catch a faint scent of some one .
Then Shadow begin to run back and forth once more , but more carefully than before .
And then he start straight for where Jumper be crouch !
Jumper know then that Shadow have find his trail .
Jumper draw a long breath and settle his long hind foot for a great jump , hop to so take Whitey the Owl by surprise that he might be able to get away .
And a Jumper do this , he look over to that stump where Whitey have be sit so long .
Whitey be just leave it on his great silent wing , and his fierce yellow eye be fix in the direction of Shadow the Weasel .
He have see that move black spot which be the tip of Shadow 's tail .
Jumper do n't have time to jump before Whitey be swoop down at Shadow .
So Juniper just keep still and watch with eye almost pop from his head with fear and excitement .
Shadow have n't see Whitey until just a Whitey be reach for him with his great cruel claw .
Now if there be any one who can move more quickly than Shadow the Weasel I do n't know who it be .
Whitey 's claw close on nothing but snow ; Shadow have dodge .
Then begin a game , Whitey swooping and Shadow dodging , and all the time they be get far and far from where Jumper be .
The instant it be safe to do so , Jumper take to his long heel and the way he disappear , lipperty-lipperty-lip , be worth seeing .
Whitey the Snowy Owl have save him from Shadow the Weasel and do n't know it .
An enemy have prove to be a friend .
CHAPTER XIII : Whitefoot Decides Quickly Your mind make up a certain way Be swift to act ; do not delay .
-- Whitefoot .
When Whitefoot have discover Whitey the Snowy Owl , he have dodge down in the little hole in the snow beside which he have be sit .
He have not be badly frighten .
But he be somewhat upset .
Yes , sir , he be somewhat upset .
You see , he have so many enemy to watch out for , and here be another .
`` Just a if I do n't have trouble enough without have this white robber to add to them , '' grumble Whitefoot .
`` Why do n't he stay where he belong , way up in the Far North ?
It must be that food be scarce up there .
Well , now that I know he be here , he will have to be smart than I think he be to catch me .
I hope Jumper the Hare will have sense enough to keep perfectly still .
I 've sometimes envy him his long leg , but I guess I be good off than he be , at that .
Once he have be see by an enemy , only those long leg of his can save him , but I have a hundred hiding-places down under the snow .
Whitey be watch the hole where I disappear ; he think I 'll come out there again after a while .
I 'll fool him . ''
Whitefoot scamper along through a little tunnel and presently very cautiously peep out of another little round hole in the snow .
Sure enough , there be Whitey the Snowy Owl back to him on a stump , watch the hole down which he have disappear a few minute before .
Whitefoot grin .
Then he look over to where he have last see Jumper .
Jumper be still there ; it be clear that he have n't move , and so Whitey have n't see him .
Again Whitefoot grin .
Then he settle himself to watch patiently for Whitey to become tired of watch that hole and fly away .
So it be that Whitefoot saw all that happen .
He saw Whitey suddenly sail out on silent wing from that stump and swoop with great claw reach for some one .
And then he saw who that some one be , -- Shadow the Weasel !
He saw Shadow dodge in the very nick of time .
Then he watch Whitey swoop again and again a Shadow dodge this way and that way .
Finally both disappear amongst the tree .
Then he turn just in time to see Jumper the Hare bound away with all the speed of his wonderful , long leg .
Fear , the great fear he have know for a long time , take possession of Whitefoot .
`` Shadow the Weasel ! ''
he gasp and have such a thing be possible he certainly would have turn pale .
`` Whitey wo n't catch him ; Shadow be too quick for him .
And when Whitey have give up and fly away , Shadow will come back .
He probably have find the track of Jumper the Hare and he will come back .
I know him ; he 'll come back .
Jumper be safe enough from him now , because he have such a long start , but Shadow will be sure to find one of my hole in the snow .
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
What shall I do ? ''
You see Shadow the Weasel be the one enemy that can follow Whitefoot into most of his hiding-places .
For a minute or two Whitefoot sit there , shake with fright .
Then he make up his mind .
`` I 'll get away from here before he return , '' think Whitefoot .
`` I 've get to .
I 've spend a comfortable winter here so far , but there will be no safety for me here any long .
I do n't know where to go , but anywhere will be good than here now . ''
Without wait another second , Whitefoot scamper away .
And how he do hope that his scent would have disappear by the time Shadow return .
If it have n't , there would be little hope for him and he know it .
CHAPTER XIV : Shadows Return He little gain and have no pride Who from his purpose turn aside .
-- Whitefoot .
Shadow the Weasel believe in persistence .
When he set out to do a thing , he keep at it until it be do or he know for a certainty it can not be do .
He be not easily discourage .
This be one reason he be so fear by the little people he delight to hunt .
They know that once he get on their trail , they will be fortunate indeed if they escape him .
When Whitey the Snowy Owl swoop at him and so nearly catch him , he be not afraid a he dodge this way and that way .
Any other of the little people with the exception of his cousin , Billy Mink , would have be frighten half to death .
But Shadow be simply angry .
He be angry that any one should try to catch him .
He be still more angry because his hunt for Jumper the Hare be interfere with .
You see , he have just find Jumper 's trail when Whitey swoop at him .
So Shadow 's little eye grow red with rage a he dodge this way and that and be gradually drive away from the place where he have find the trail of Jumper the Hare .
At last he saw a hole in an old log and into this he dart .
Whitey could n't get him there .
Whitey know this and he know , too , that wait for Shadow to come out again would be a waste of time .
So Whitey promptly fly away .
Hardly have he disappear when Shadow pop out of that hole , for he have be peep out and watch Whitey .
Without a moment 's pause he turn straight back for the place where he have find the trail of Jumper the Hare .
He have no intention of give up that hunt just because he have be drive away .
Straight to the very spot where Whitey have first swoop at him he run , and there once more his keen little nose take up the trail of Jumper .
It lead him straight to the foot of the tree where Jumper have crouch so long .
But , a you know , Jumper be n't there then .
Shadow run in a circle and presently he find where Jumper have land on the snow at the end of that first bound .
Shadow snarl .
He understand exactly what have happen .
`` Jumper be under that tree when that white robber from the Far North try to catch me , and he take that chance to leave in a hurry .
I can tell that by the length of this jump .
Probably he be still go .
It be useless to follow him because he have too long a start , '' say Shadow , and he snarl again in rage and disappointment .
Then , for such be his way , he waste no more time or think on Jumper the Hare .
Instead he begin to look for other trail .
So it be that he find one of the little hole of Whitefoot the Wood Mouse .
`` Ha !
So this be where Whitefoot have be live this winter ! ''
he exclaim .
Once more his eye glow red , but this time with eagerness and the joy of the hunt .
He plunge down into that little hole in the snow .
Down there the scent of Whitefoot be strong .
Shadow follow it until it lead out of another little hole in the snow .
But there he lose it .
You see , it be so long since Whitefoot have hurriedly leave that the scent on the surface have disappear .
Shadow run swiftly this way and that way in a big circle , but he could n't find Whitefoot 's trail again .
Snarling with anger and disappointment , he return to the little hole in the snow and vanish .
Then he follow all Whitefoot 's little tunnel .
He find Whitefoot 's nest .
He find his store of seed .
But he do n't find Whitefoot .
`` He 'll come back , '' mutter Shadow , and curl up in Whitefoot 's nest to wait .
CHAPTER XV : Whitefoots Dreadful Journey Danger may be anywhere , So I expect it everywhere .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot the Wood Mouse be terribly frighten .
Yes , sir , he be terribly frighten .
It be a long , long time since he have be as frighten a he now be .
He be use to fright , be Whitefoot .
He have them every day and every night , but usually they be sudden fright , quickly over and a quickly forget .
This fright be different .
You see Whitefoot have catch a glimpse of Shadow the Weasel .
And he know that if Shadow return he would be sure to find the little round hole in the snow that lead down to Whitefoot 's private little tunnel underneath .
The only thing for Whitefoot to do be to get just a far from that place a he could before Shadow should return .
And so poor little Whitefoot start out on a journey that be to take him he know not where .
All he could do be to go and go and go until he could find a safe hiding-place .
My , my , but that be a dreadful journey !
Every time a twig snap , Whitefoot 's heart seem to jump right up in his throat .
Every time he saw a move shadow , and the branch of the tree move in the wind be constantly make move shadow on the snow , he dodge behind a tree trunk or under a piece of bark or wherever he could find a hiding-place .
You see , Whitefoot have so many enemy always look for him that he hide whenever he see anything move .
When at home , he be forever dodge in and out of his hiding-places .
So , because everything be strange to him , and because of the great fear of Shadow the Weasel , he suspect everything that move and every sound he hear .
For a long way no one saw him , for no one be about .
Yet all that way Whitefoot twist and dodge and dart from place to place and be just as badly frighten a if there have be enemy all about .
`` Oh , dear !
Oh , dear me ! ''
he keep say over and over to himself .
`` Wherever shall I go ?
Whatever shall I do ?
However shall I get enough to eat ?
I wo n't dare go back to get food from my little storehouse , and I shall have to live in a strange place where I wo n't know where to look for food .
I be get tire .
My leg ache .
I 'm get hungry .
I want my nice , warm , soft bed .
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear me ! ''
But in spite of his fright , Whitefoot keep on .
You see , he be more afraid to stop than he be to go on .
He just have to get a far from Shadow the Weasel a he could .
Being such a little fellow , what would be a short distance for you or me be a long distance for Whitefoot .
And so that journey be to him very long indeed .
Of course , it seem longer because of the constant fright which come one right after another .
It really be a terrible journey .
Yet if he have only know it , there be n't a thing along the whole way to be afraid of .
You know it often happen that people be frighten more by what they do n't know than by what they do know .
CHAPTER XVI : Whitefoot Climbs A Tree I 'd rather be frighten With no cause for fear Than fearful of nothing When danger be near .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot keep on go and go .
Every time he think that he be so tired he must stop , he would think of Shadow the Weasel and then go on again .
By and by he become so tired that not even the thought of Shadow the Weasel could make him go much far .
So he begin to look about for a safe hiding-place in which to rest .
Now the home which he have leave have be a snug little room beneath the root of a certain old stump .
There he have live for a long time in the great comfort .
Little tunnel lead to his storehouse and up to the surface of the snow .
It have be a splendid place and one in which he have felt perfectly safe until Shadow the Weasel have appear .
Had you see him play about there , you would have think him one of the little people of the ground , like his cousin Danny Meadow Mouse .
But Whitefoot be quite as much at home in tree a on the ground .
In fact , he be quite as much at home in tree a be Chatterer the Red Squirrel , and a lot more at home in tree than be Striped Chipmunk , although Striped Chipmunk belong to the Squirrel family .
So now that he must find a hiding-place , Whitefoot decide that he would feel much safer in a tree than on the ground .
`` If only I can find a hollow tree , '' whimper Whitefoot .
`` I will feel ever so much safer in a tree than hide in or near the ground in a strange place . ''
So Whitefoot begin to look for a dead tree .
You see , he know that there be more likely to be a hollow in a dead tree than in a living tree .
By and by he come to a tall , dead tree .
He know it be a dead tree , because there be no bark on it .
But , of course , he could n't tell whether or not that tree be hollow .
I mean he could n't tell from the ground .
`` Oh , dear ! ''
he whimper again .
`` Oh , dear !
I suppose I will have to climb this , and I be so tired .
It ought to be hollow .
There ought to be splendid hole in it .
It be just the kind of a tree that Drummer the Woodpecker like to make his house in .
I shall be terribly disappointed if I do n't find one of his house somewhere in it , but I wish I have n't get to climb it to find out .
Well , here go . ''
He look anxiously this way .
He look anxiously that way .
He look anxiously the other way .
In fact , he look anxiously every way .
But he saw no one and nothing to be afraid of , and so he start up the tree .
He be half-way up when , glance down , he saw a shadow move across the snow .
Once more Whitefoot 's heart seem to jump right up in his throat .
That shadow be the shadow of some one flying .
There could n't be the least bit of doubt about it .
Whitefoot flatten himself against the side of the tree and peek around it .
He be just in time to see a gray and black and white bird almost the size of Sammy Jay alight in the very next tree .
He have come along near the ground and then rise sharply into the tree .
His bill be black , and there be just a tiny hook on the end of it .
Whitefoot know who it be .
It be Butcher the Shrike .
Whitefoot shiver .
CHAPTER XVII : Whitefoot Finds A Hole Just In Time Just in time , not just too late , Will make you master of your fate .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot , half-way up that dead tree , flatten himself against the trunk and , with his heart go pit-a-pat , pit-a-pat with fright , peer around the tree at an enemy he have not see for so long that he have quite forget there be such a one .
It be Butcher the Shrike .
Often he be call just Butcher Bird .
He do not look at all terrible .
He be not quite as big a Sammy Jay .
He have no terrible claw like the Hawks and Owls .
There be a tiny hook at the end of his black bill , but it be n't big enough to look very dreadful .
But you can not always judge a person by look , and Whitefoot know that Butcher be one to be fear .
So his heart go pit-a-pat , pit-a-pat a he wonder if Butcher have see him .
He do n't have to wait long to find out .
Butcher fly to a tree back of Whitefoot and then straight at him .
Whitefoot dodge around to the other side of the tree .
Then begin a dreadful game .
At least , it be dreadful to Whitefoot .
This way and that way around the trunk of that tree he dodge , while Butcher do his best to catch him .
Whitefoot would not have mind this so much , have he not be so tired , and have he know of a hiding-place close at hand .
But he be tire , very tired , for you remember he have have what be a very long and terrible journey to him .
He have felt almost too tired to climb that tree in the first place to see if it have any hole in it high up .
Now he do n't know whether to keep on go up or to go down .
Two or three time he dodge around the tree without do either .
Then he decide to go up .
Now Butcher be enjoy this game of dodge .
If he should catch Whitefoot , he would have a good dinner .
If he do n't catch Whitefoot , he would simply go hungry a little long .
So you see , there be a very big difference in the feeling of Whitefoot and Butcher .
Whitefoot have his life to lose , while Butcher have only a dinner to lose .
Dodging this way and dodging that way , Whitefoot climb high and high .
Twice he whisk around that tree trunk barely in time .
All the time he be grow more and more tired , and more and more discouraged .
Supposing he should find no hole in that tree !
`` There must be one .
There must be one , '' he keep say over and over to himself , to keep his courage up .
`` I ca n't keep dodge much long .
If I do n't find a hole pretty soon , Butcher will surely catch me .
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear ! ''
Just above Whitefoot be a broken branch .
Only the stub of it remain .
The next time he dodge around the trunk he find himself just below that stub .
Oh , joy !
There , close under that stub , be a round hole .
Whitefoot do n't hesitate a second .
He do n't wait to find out whether or not any one be in that hole .
He do n't even think that there might be some one in there .
With a tiny little squeak of relief he dart in .
He be just in time .
He be just in the nick of time .
Butcher strike at him and just miss him a he disappear in that hole .
Whitefoot have save his life and Butcher have miss a dinner .
CHAPTER XVIII : An Unpleasant Surprise Be careful never to be rude Enough to thoughtlessly intrude .
-- Whitefoot .
If ever anybody in the Great World felt relief and thankfulness , it be Whitefoot when he dodge into that hole in the dead tree just a Butcher the Shrike all but catch him .
For a few minute he do nothing but pant , for he be quite out of breath .
`` I be right , '' he say over and over to himself , `` I be right .
I be sure there must be a hole in this tree .
It be one of the old house of Drummer the Woodpecker .
Now I be safe . ''
Presently he peep out .
He want to see if Butcher be watch outside .
He be just in time to see Butcher 's gray and black and white coat disappearing among the tree .
Butcher be not foolish enough to waste time watch for Whitefoot to come out .
Whitefoot sigh happily .
For the first time since he have start on his dreadful journey he felt safe .
Nothing else matter .
He be hungry , but he do n't mind that .
He be willing to go hungry for the sake of be safe .
Whitefoot watch until Butcher be out of sight .
Then he turn to see what that house be like .
Right away he discover that there be a soft , warm bed in it .
It be make of leaf , grass , moss , and the lining of bark .
It be a very fine bed indeed .
`` My , my , my , but I be lucky , '' say Whitefoot to himself .
`` I wonder who could have make this fine bed .
I certainly shall sleep comfortably here .
Goodness know , I need a rest .
If I can find food enough near here , I 'll make this my home .
I could n't ask for a good one . ''
Chuckling happily , Whitefoot begin to pull away the top of that bed so a to get to the middle of it .
And then he get a surprise .
It be an unpleasant surprise .
It be a most unpleasant surprise .
There be some one in that bed !
Yes , sir , there be some one curl up in a little round ball in the middle of that fine bed .
It be some one with a coat of the soft , fine fur .
Can you guess who it be ?
It be Timmy the Flying Squirrel .
It seem to Whitefoot a if his heart flop right over .
You see at first he do n't recognize Timmy .
Whitefoot be himself so very timid that his thought be to run ; to get out of there as quickly a possible .
But he have no place to run to , so he hesitate .
Never in all his life have Whitefoot have a great disappointment .
He know now that this splendid house be not for him .
Timmy the Flying Squirrel do n't move .
He remain curl up in a soft little ball .
He be asleep .
Whitefoot remember that Timmy sleep during the day and seldom come out until the Black Shadows come creep out from the Purple Hills at the close of day .
Whitefoot felt easier in his mind then .
Timmy be so sound asleep that he know nothing of his visitor .
And so Whitefoot felt safe in stay long enough to get rest .
Then he would go out and hunt for another home .
So down in the middle of that soft , warm bed Timmy the Flying Squirrel , curl up in a little round ball with his flat tail wrap around him , sleep peacefully , and on top of that soft bed Whitefoot the Wood Mouse rest and wonder what he should do next .
Not in all the Green Forest could two more timid little people be find than the two in that old home of Drummer the Woodpecker .
CHAPTER XIX : Whitefoot Finds A Home At Last True independence he have know Whose home have be his very own .
-- Whitefoot .
Curled up in his splendid warm bed , Timmy the Flying Squirrel sleep peacefully .
He do n't know he have a visitor .
He do n't know that on top of that same bed lay Whitefoot the Wood Mouse .
Whitefoot be n't asleep .
No , indeed !
Whitefoot be too worried to sleep .
He know he could n't stay in that fine house because it belong to Timmy .
He know that as soon a Timmy awake , he , Whitefoot , would have to get out .
Where should he go ?
He wish he know .
How he do long for the old home he have leave .
But when he think of that , he remember Shadow the Weasel .
It be well to be homeless than to feel that at any minute Shadow the Weasel might appear .
It be get late in the afternoon .
Before long , jolly , round , red Mr. Sun would go to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows would come creep through the Green Forest .
Then Timmy the Flying Squirrel would awake .
`` It wo n't do for me to be here then , '' say Whitefoot to himself .
`` I must find some other place before he wake .
If only I know this part of the Green Forest I might know where to go .
As it be , I shall have to go hunt for a new home and trust to luck .
Did ever a poor little Mouse have so much trouble ? ''
After awhile Whitefoot felt rest and peep out of the doorway .
No enemy be to be see anywhere .
Whitefoot creep out and climb a little high up in the tree .
Presently he find another hole .
He peep inside and listen long and carefully .
He do n't intend to make the mistake of go into another house where some one might be live .
At last , sure that there be no one in there , he creep in .
Then he make a discovery .
There be beech nut in there and there be seed .
It be a storehouse !
Whitefoot know at once that it must be Timmy 's storehouse .
Right away he realize how very , very hungry he be .
Of course , he have no right to any of those seed or nut .
Certainly not !
That be , he would n't have have any right have he be a boy or girl .
But it be the law of the Green Forest that whatever any one find he may help himself to if he can .
So Whitefoot begin to fill his empty little stomach with some of those seed .
He ate and ate and ate and quite forget all his trouble .
Just a he felt that he have n't room for another seed , he hear the sound of claw outside on the trunk of the tree .
In a flash he know that Timmy the Flying Squirrel be awake , and that it would n't do to be find in there by him .
In a jiffy Whitefoot be outside .
He be just in time .
Timmy be almost up to the entrance .
`` Hi , there ! ''
cry Timmy .
`` What be you do in my storehouse ? ''
`` I -- I -- I be look for a new home , '' stammer Whitefoot .
`` You mean you be steal some of my food , '' snap Timmy suspiciously .
`` I -- I -- I do take a few seed because I be almost starve .
But truly I be look for a new home , '' reply Whitefoot .
`` What be the matter with your old home ? ''
demand Timmy .
Then Whitefoot tell Timmy all about how he have be oblige to leave his old home because of Shadow the Weasel , of the terrible journey he have have , and how he do n't know where to go or what to do .
Timmy listen suspiciously at first , but soon he make up his mind that Whitefoot be tell the truth .
The mere mention of Shadow the Weasel make him very sober .
He scratch his nose thoughtfully .
`` Over in that tall , dead stub you can see from here be an old home of mine , '' say he .
`` No one live in it now .
I guess you can live there until you can find a good home .
But remember to keep away from my storehouse . ''
So it be that Whitefoot find a new home .
CHAPTER XX : Whitefoot Makes Himself At Home Look not too much on that behind Lest to the future you be blind .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot do n't wait to be tell twice of that empty house .
He thank Timmy and then scamper over to that stub as fast a his leg would take him .
Up the stub he climb , and near the top he find a little round hole .
Timmy have say no one be live there now , and so Whitefoot do n't hesitate to pop inside .
There be even a bed in there .
It be an old bed , but it be dry and soft .
It be quite clear that no one have be in there for a long time .
With a little sigh of pure happiness , Whitefoot curl up in that bed for the sleep he so much need .
His stomach be full , and once more he felt safe .
The very fact that this be an old house in which no one have live for a long time make it safer .
Whitefoot know that those who live in that part of the Green Forest probably know that no one live in that old stub , and so no one be likely to visit it .
He be so tired that he sleep all night .
Whitefoot be one of those who sleep when he feel sleepy , whether it be by day or night .
He prefer the night to be out and about in , because he feel safe then , but he often come out by day .
So when he awake in the early morning , he promptly go out for a look about and to get acquaint with his new surroundings .
Just a little way off be the tall , dead tree in which Timmy the Flying Squirrel have his home .
Timmy be nowhere to be see .
You see , he have be out most of the night and have go to bed to sleep through the day .
Whitefoot think longingly of the good thing in Timmy 's storehouse in that same tree , but decide that it would be wise to keep away from there .
So he scurry about to see what he could find for a breakfast .
It do n't take him long to find some pine cone in which a few seed be still cling .
These would do nicely .
Whitefoot eat what he want and then carry some of them back to his new home in the tall stub .
Then he go to work to tear to piece the old bed in there and make it over to suit himself .
It be an old bed of Timmy the Flying Squirrel , for you know this be Timmy 's old house .
Whitefoot soon have the bed make over to suit him .
And when this be do he felt quite at home .
Then he start out to explore all about within a short distance of the old stub .
He want to know every hole and every possible hiding-place all around , for it be on such knowledge that his life depend .
When at last he return home he be very well satisfy .
`` It be go to be a good place to live , '' say he to himself .
`` There be plenty of hiding-places and I be go to be able to find enough to eat .
It will be very nice to have Timmy the Flying Squirrel for a neighbor .
I be sure he and I will get along together very nicely .
I do n't believe Shadow the Weasel , even if he should come around here , would bother to climb up this old stub .
He probably would expect to find me live down in the ground or close to it , anyway .
I certainly be glad that I be such a good climber .
Now if Buster Bear do n't come along in the spring and pull this old stub over , I 'll have as fine a home a any one could ask for . ''
And then , because happily it be the way with the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , Whitefoot forget all about his terrible journey and the dreadful time he have have in find his new home .
CHAPTER XXI : Whitefoot Envies Timmy A useless thing be envy ; A foolish thing to boot .
Why should a Fox who have a bark Want like an Owl to hoot ?
Whitefoot be begin to feel quite at home .
He would have be wholly content but for one thing , -- he have no well-filled storehouse .
This meant that each day he must hunt for his food .
It be n't that Whitefoot mind hunt for food .
He would have do that anyway , even though he have have close at hand a store-house with plenty in it .
But he would have felt easier in his mind .
He would have have the comfortable feeling that if the weather turn so bad that he could not easily get out and about , he would not have to go hungry .
But Whitefoot be a happy little fellow and wisely make the best of thing .
At first he come out very little by day .
He know that there be many sharp eye watch for him , and that he be more likely to be see in the light of day than when the Black Shadows have creep all through the Green Forest .
He would peek out of his doorway and watch for chance visitor in the daytime .
Twice he saw Butcher the Shrike alight a short distance from the tree in which Timmy live .
He know Butcher have not forget that he have chase a badly frighten Mouse into a hole in that tree .
Once he saw Whitey the Snowy Owl and so know that Whitey have not yet return to the Far North .
Once Reddy Fox trot along right past the foot of the old stub in which Whitefoot live , and do n't even suspect that he be anywhere near .
Twice he saw Old Man Coyote trot past , and once Terror the Goshawk alight on that very stub , and sit there for half an hour .
So Whitefoot form the habit of do just what Timmy the Flying Squirrel do ; he remain in his house for most of the day and come out when the Black Shadows begin to creep in among the tree .
Timmy come out about the same time , and they have become the best of friend .
Now Whitefoot be not much give to envy others , but a night after night he watch Timmy a little envy creep into his heart in spite of all he could do .
Timmy would nimbly climb to the top of a tree and then jump .
Down he would come in a long beautiful glide , for all the world a if he be slide on the air .
The first time Whitefoot saw him do it he hold his breath .
He really do n't know what to make of it .
The near tree to the one from which Timmy have jump be so far away that it do n't seem possible any one without wing could reach it without first go to the ground .
`` Oh ! ''
squeaked Whitefoot .
`` Oh !
he 'll kill himself !
He surely will kill himself !
He 'll break his neck ! ''
But Timmy do nothing of the kind .
He sail down , down , down and alight on that distant tree a foot or two from the bottom ; and without stop a second scamper up to the top of that tree and once more jumped .
Whitefoot have hard work to believe his own eye .
Timmy seem to be jump just for the pleasure of it .
As a matter of fact , he be .
He be get his evening exercise .
Whitefoot sigh .
`` I wish I could jump like that , '' say he to himself .
`` I would n't ever be afraid of anybody if I could jump like that .
I envy Timmy .
I do so . ''
CHAPTER XXII : Timmy Proves To Be A True Neighbor He prove himself a neighbor true Who seek a kindly deed to do .
-- Whitefoot .
Occasionally Timmy the Flying Squirrel come over to visit Whitefoot .
If Whitefoot be in his house he always know when Timmy arrive .
He would hear a soft thump down near the bottom of the tall stub .
He would know instantly that thump be make by Timmy strike the foot of the stub after a long jump from the top of a tree .
Whitefoot would poke his head out of his doorway and there , sure enough , would be Timmy scramble up towards him .
Whitefoot have grow to admire Timmy with all his might .
It seem to him that Timmy be the most wonderful of all the people he know .
You see there be none of the others who could jump a Timmy could .
Timmy on his part enjoy have Whitefoot for a neighbor .
Few of the little people of the Green Forest be more timid than Timmy the Flying Squirrel , but here be one beside whom Timmy actually felt bold .
It be such a new feeling that Timmy enjoy it .
So it be that in the dusk of early evening , just after the Black Shadows have come creep out from the Purple Hills across the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , these two little neighbor would start out to hunt for food .
Whitefoot never go far from the tall , dead stub in which he be now live .
He do n't dare to .
He want to be where at the first sign of danger he could scamper back there to safety .
Timmy would go some distance , but he be seldom go long .
He like to be where he could watch and talk with Whitefoot .
You see Timmy be very much like other people , -- he like to gossip a little .
One evening Whitefoot have find it hard work to find enough food to fill his stomach .
He have keep go a little farther and a little farther from home .
Finally he be far from it than he have ever be before .
Timmy have fill his stomach and from near the top of a tree be watch Whitefoot .
Suddenly what seem like a great Black Shadow float right over the tree in which Timmy be sit , and stop on the top of a tall , dead tree .
It be Hooty the Owl , and it be simply good fortune that Timmy happen to see him .
Timmy do not move .
He know that he be safe so long a he keep perfectly still .
He know that Hooty do n't know he be there .
Unless he move , those great eye of Hooty 's , wonderful a they be , would not see him .
Timmy look over to where he have last see Whitefoot .
There he be pick out seed from a pine cone on the ground .
The trunk of a tree be between him and Hooty .
But Timmy know that Whitefoot have n't see Hooty , and that any minute he might run out from behind that tree .
If he do Hooty would see him , and silently a a shadow would swoop down and catch him .
What be to be do ?
`` It 's no business of mine , '' say Timmy to himself .
`` Whitefoot must look out for himself .
It be no business of mine at all .
Perhaps Hooty will fly away before Whitefoot move .
I do n't want anything to happen to Whitefoot , but if something do , it will be his own fault ; he should keep good watch . ''
For a few minute nothing happen .
Then Whitefoot finish the last seed in that cone and start to look for more .
Timmy know that in a moment Hooty would see Whitefoot .
What do you think Timmy do ?
He jump .
Yes , sir , he jump .
Down , down , down , straight past the tree on which sit Hooty the Owl , Timmy sail .
Hooty saw him .
Of course .
He could n't help but see him .
He spread his great wing and be after Timmy in an instant .
Timmy strike near the foot of a tree and without waste a second dart around to the other side .
He be just in time .
Hooty be already reach for him .
Up the tree run Timmy and jump again .
Again Hooty be too late .
And so Timmy lead Hooty the Owl away from Whitefoot the Wood Mouse .
CHAPTER XXIII : Whitefoot Spends A Dreadful Night Pity those who suffer fright In the dark and stilly night .
-- Whitefoot .
One night of his life Whitefoot will never forget so long a he live .
Even now it make him shiver just to think of it .
Yes , sir , he shiver even now whenever he think of that night .
The Black Shadows have come early that evening , so that it be quite dusk when Whitefoot creep out of his snug little bed and climb up to the round hole which be the doorway of his home .
He have just poke his nose out that little round doorway when there be the most terrible sound .
It seem to him a if it be in his very ear , so loud and terrible be it .
It frighten him so that he simply let go and tumble backward down inside his house .
Of course it do n't hurt him any , for he land on his soft bed .
`` Whooo-hoo-hoo , whooo-hoo ! ''
come that terrible sound again , and Whitefoot shook until his little teeth rattle .
At least , that be the way it seem to him .
It be the voice of Hooty the Owl , and Whitefoot know that Hooty be sit on the top of that very stub .
He be , so to speak , on the roof of Whitefoot 's house .
Now in all the Green Forest there be no sound that strike terror to the heart of the little people of feather and fur equal to the hunt call of Hooty the Owl .
Hooty know this .
No one know it good than he do .
That be why he use it .
He know that many of the little people be asleep , safely hide away .
He know that it would be quite useless for him to simply look for them .
He would starve before he could find a dinner in that way .
But he know that any one waken from sleep in great fright be sure to move , and if they do this they be almost equally sure to make some little sound .
His ear be so wonderful that they can catch the faint sound and tell exactly where it come from .
So he use that terrible hunt cry to frighten the little people and make them move .
Now Whitefoot know that he be safe .
Hooty could n't possibly get at him , even should he find out that he be in there .
There be nothing to fear , but just the same , Whitefoot shiver and shook and jump almost out of his skin every time that Hooty hoot .
He just could n't help it .
`` He ca n't get me .
I know he ca n't get me .
I 'm perfectly safe .
I 'm just as safe a if he be mile away .
There 's nothing to be afraid of .
It be silly to be afraid .
Probably Hooty do n't even know I be inside here .
Even if he do , it do n't really matter . ''
Whitefoot say these thing to himself over and over again .
Then Hooty would send out that fierce , terrible hunt call and Whitefoot would jump and shake just a before .
After awhile all be still .
Gradually Whitefoot stop tremble .
He guess that Hooty have fly away .
Still he remain right where he be for a very long time .
He do n't intend to foolishly take any chance .
So he wait and wait and wait .
At last he be sure that Hooty have leave .
Once more he climb up to his little round doorway and there he wait some time before poke even his nose outside .
Then , just a he have make up his mind to go out , that terrible sound ring out again , and just a before he tumble heel over head down on his bed .
Whitefoot do n't go out that night at all .
It be a moonlight night and just the kind of a night to be out .
Instead Whitefoot lay in his little bed and shiver and shook , for all through that long night every once in a while Hooty the Owl would hoot from the top of that stub .
CHAPTER XXIV : Whitefoot The Wood Mouse Is Unhappy Unhappiness without a cause you never , never find ; It may be in the stomach , or it may be in the mind .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot the Wood Mouse should have be happy , but he be n't .
Winter have go and sweet Mistress Spring have bring joy to all the Green Forest .
Every one be happy , Whitefoot no less so than his neighbor at first .
Up from the Sunny South come the feathered friend and at once begin plan new home .
Twitterings and song fill the air .
Joy be everywhere .
Food become plentiful , and Whitefoot become sleek and fat .
That be , he become as fat a a lively Wood Mouse ever do become .
None of his enemy have discover his new home , and he have little to worry about .
But by and by Whitefoot begin to feel less joyous .
Day by day he grow more and more unhappy .
He no longer take pleasure in his fine home .
He begin to wander about for no particular reason .
He wander much far from home than he have ever be in the habit of do .
At time he would sit and listen , but what he be listen for he do n't know .
`` There be something the matter with me , and I do n't know what it be , '' say Whitefoot to himself forlornly .
`` It ca n't be anything I have eat .
I have nothing to worry about .
Yet there be something wrong with me .
I 'm lose my appetite .
Nothing taste good any more .
I want something , but I do n't know what it be I want . ''
He try to tell his trouble to his near neighbor , Timmy the Flying Squirrel , but Timmy be too busy to listen .
When Peter Rabbit happen along , Whitefoot try to tell him .
But Peter himself be too happy and too eager to learn all the news in the Green Forest to listen .
No one have any interest in Whitefoot 's trouble .
Every one be too busy with his own affair .
So day by day Whitefoot the Wood Mouse grow more and more unhappy , and when the dusk of early evening come creep through the Green Forest , he sit about and mop instead of run about and play a he have be in the habit of do .
The beautiful song of Melody the Wood Thrush somehow fill him with sadness instead of with the joy he have always felt before .
The very happiness of those about him seem to make him more unhappy .
Once he almost decide to go hunt for another home , but somehow he could n't get interested even in this .
He do start out , but he have not go far before he have forget all about what he have start for .
Always he have love to run about and climb and jump for the pure pleasure of it , but now he no longer do these thing .
He be unhappy , be Whitefoot .
Yes , sir , he be unhappy ; and for no cause at all so far a he could see .
CHAPTER XXV : Whitefoot Finds Out What The Matter Was Pity the lonely , for deep in the heart Is an ache that no doctor can heal by his art .
-- Whitefoot .
Of all the little people of the Green Forest Whitefoot seem to be the only one who be unhappy .
And because he do n't know why he felt so he become day by day more unhappy .
Perhaps I should say that night by night he become more unhappy , for during the brightness of the day he sleep most of the time .
`` There be something wrong , something wrong , '' he would say over and over to himself .
`` It must be with me , because everybody else be happy , and this be the happy time of all the year .
I wish some one would tell me what ail me .
I want to be happy , but somehow I just ca n't be . ''
One evening he wander a little farther from home than usual .
He be n't go anywhere in particular .
He have nothing in particular to do .
He be just wander about because somehow he could n't remain at home .
Not far away Melody the Wood Thrush be pour out his beautiful evening song .
Whitefoot stop to listen .
Somehow it make him more unhappy than ever .
Melody stop sing for a few moment .
It be just then that Whitefoot hear a faint sound .
It be a gentle drumming .
Whitefoot prick up his ear and listen .
There it be again .
He know instantly how that sound be make .
It be make by dainty little foot beat very fast on an old log .
Whitefoot have drum that way himself many time .
It be soft , but clear , and it last only a moment .
Right then something very strange happen to Whitefoot .
Yes , sir , something very strange happen to Whitefoot .
All in a flash he felt well .
At first he do n't know why .
He just do , that be all .
Without think what he be do , he begin to drum himself .
Then he listen .
At first he hear nothing .
Then , soft and low , come that drum sound again .
Whitefoot reply to it .
All the time he keep feel well .
He run a little nearer to the place from which that drum sound have come and then once more drummed .
At first he get no reply .
Then in a few minute he hear it again , only this time it come from a different place .
Whitefoot become quite excite .
He know that that drumming be do by another Wood Mouse , and all in a flash it come over him what have be the matter with him .
`` I have be lonely ! ''
exclaim Whitefoot .
`` That be all that have be the trouble with me .
I have be lonely and do n't know it .
I wonder if that other Wood Mouse have felt the same way . ''
Again he drum and again come that soft reply .
Once more Whitefoot hurry in the direction of it , and once more he be disappoint when the next reply come from a different place .
By now he be get quite excite .
He be bind to find that other Wood Mouse .
Every time he hear that drumming , funny little thrill run all over him .
He do n't know why .
They just do , that be all .
He simply must find that other Wood Mouse .
He forget everything else .
He do n't even notice where he be go .
He would drum , then wait for a reply .
As soon a he hear it , he would scamper in the direction of it , and then pause to drum again .
Sometimes the reply would be very near , then again it would be so far away that a great fear would fill Whitefoot 's heart that the stranger be run away .
CHAPTER XXVI : Love Fills The Heart Of Whitefoot Joyous all the wind that blow To the heart with love aglow .
-- Whitefoot .
It be a wonderful game of hide-and-seek that Whitefoot the Wood Mouse be play in the dusk of early evening .
Whitefoot be `` it '' all the time .
That be , he be the one who have to do all the hunting .
Just who he be hunt for he do n't know .
He know it be another Wood Mouse , but it be a stranger , and do what he would , he could n't get so much a a glimpse of this little stranger .
He would drum with his foot and after a slight pause there would be an answering drum .
Then Whitefoot would run as fast a he could in that direction only to find no one at all .
Then he would drum again and the reply would come from another direction .
Every moment Whitefoot become more excited .
He forget everything , even danger , in his desire to see that little drummer .
Once or twice he actually lose his temper in his disappointment .
But this be only for a moment .
He be too eager to find that little drummer to be angry very long .
At last there come a time when there be no reply to his drumming .
He drum and listen , then drum again and listen .
Nothing be to be hear .
There be no reply .
Whitefoot 's heart sank .
All the old lonesomeness crept over him again .
He do n't know which way to turn to look for that stranger .
When he have drum until he be tire , he sit on the end of an old log , a perfect picture of disappointment .
He be so disappointed that he could have cry if it would have do any good .
Just a he have about make up his mind that there be nothing to do but to try to find his way home , his keen little ear catch the faint rustle of dry leaf .
Instantly Whitefoot be alert and watchful .
Long ago he have learn to be suspicious of rustle leaf .
They might have be rustle by the foot of an enemy steal up on him .
No Wood Mouse who want to live long be ever heedless of rustle leaf .
As still a if he could n't move , Whitefoot sit star at the place from which that faint sound have seem to come .
For two or three minute he hear and saw nothing .
Then another leaf rustle a little bit to one side .
Whitefoot turn like a flash , his foot gather under him ready for a long jump for safety .
At first he saw nothing .
Then he become aware of two bright , soft little eye watch him .
He star at them very hard and then all over him creep those funny thrill he have felt when he have first hear the drumming of the stranger .
He know without be tell that those eye belong to the little drummer with whom he have be play hide and seek so long .
Whitefoot hold his breath , he be so afraid that those eye would vanish .
Finally he rather timidly jump down from the log and start toward those two soft eye .
They vanish .
Whitefoot 's heart sank .
He be tempt to rush forward , but he do n't .
He sit still .
There be a slight rustle off to the right .
A little ray of moonlight make it way down through the branch of the tree just there , and in the middle of the light spot it make sit a timid little person .
It seem to Whitefoot that he be look at the most beautiful Wood Mouse in all the Great World .
Suddenly he felt very shy and timid himself .
`` Who -- who -- who be you ? ''
he stammer .
`` I be little Miss Dainty , '' reply the stranger bashfully .
Right then and there Whitefoot 's heart be fill so full of something that it seem a if it would burst .
It be love .
All in that instant he know that he have find the most wonderful thing in all the Great World , which of course be love .
He know that he just could n't live without little Miss Dainty .
CHAPTER XXVII : Mr. And Mrs. Whitefoot When all be say and all be do 'T be only love of two make one .
-- Whitefoot .
Little Miss Dainty , the most beautiful and wonderful Wood Mouse in all the Great World , accord to Whitefoot , be very shy and very timid .
It take Whitefoot a long time to make her believe that he really could n't live without her .
At least , she pretend not to believe it .
If the truth be know , little Miss Dainty felt just the same way about Whitefoot .
But Whitefoot do n't know this , and I be afraid she tease him a great deal before she tell him that she love him just a he love her .
But at last little Miss Dainty shyly admit that she love Whitefoot just as much a he love her and be willing to become Mrs. Whitefoot .
Secretly she think Whitefoot the most wonderful Wood Mouse in the Great World , but she do n't tell him so .
The truth be , she make him feel a if she be do him a great favor .
As for Whitefoot , he be so happy that he actually try to sing .
Yes , sir , Whitefoot try to sing , and he really do very well for a Mouse .
He be ready and eager to do anything that Mrs. Whitefoot want to do .
Together they scamper about in the moonlight , hunt for good thing to eat , and poke their inquisitive little nose into every little place they could find .
Whitefoot forget that he have ever be sad and lonely .
He race about and do all sort of funny thing from pure joy , but he never once forgot to watch out for danger .
In fact he be more watchful than ever , for now he be watch for Mrs. Whitefoot as well a for himself .
At last Whitefoot rather timidly suggest that they should go see his fine home in a certain hollow stub .
Mrs. Whitefoot insist that they should go to her home .
Whitefoot agree on condition that she would afterwards visit his home .
So together they go back to Mrs. Whitefoot 's home .
Whitefoot pretend that he like it very much , but in his heart he think his own home be very much good , and he felt quite sure that Mrs. Whitefoot would agree with him once she have see it .
But Mrs. Whitefoot be very well satisfied with her old home and not at all anxious to leave it .
It be in an old hollow stump close to the ground .
It be just such a place a Shadow the Weasel would be sure to visit should he happen along that way .
It do n't seem at all safe to Whitefoot .
In fact it worry him .
Then , too , it be not in such a pleasant place a be his own home .
Of course he do n't say this , but pretend to admire everything .
Two day and night they spend there .
Then Whitefoot suggest that they should visit his home .
`` Of course , my dear , we will not have to live there unless you want to , but I want you to see it , '' say he .
Mrs. Whitefoot do n't appear at all anxious to go .
She begin to make excuse for stay right where they be .
You see , she have a great love for that old home .
They be sit just outside the doorway talk about the matter when Whitefoot catch a glimpse of a swiftly move form not far off .
It be Shadow the Weasel .
Neither of them breathe .
Shadow pass without look in their direction .
When he be out of sight , Mrs. Whitefoot shiver .
`` Let 's go over to your home right away , '' she whisper .
`` I 've never see Shadow about here before , but now that he have be here once , he may come again . ''
`` We 'll start at once , '' reply Whitefoot , and for once he be glad that Shadow the Weasel be about .
CHAPTER XVIII : Mrs. Whitefoot Decides On A Home When Mrs . Mouse make up her mind Then Mr . Mouse best get behind .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot the Wood Mouse be very proud of his home .
He show it a he lead Mrs. Whitefoot there .
He felt sure that she would say at once that that would be the place for them to live .
You remember that it be high up in a tall , dead stub and have once be the home of Timmy the Flying Squirrel .
`` There , my dear , what do you think of that ? ''
say Whitefoot proudly a they reach the little round doorway .
Mrs. Whitefoot say nothing , but at once go inside .
She be go what seem a long time to Whitefoot , anxiously wait outside .
You see , Mrs. Whitefoot be a very thorough small person , and she be examine the inside of that house from top to bottom .
At last she appear at the doorway .
`` Do n't you think this be a splendid house ? ''
ask Whitefoot rather timidly .
`` It be very good of it kind , '' reply Mrs. Whitefoot .
Whitefoot 's heart sank .
He do n't like the tone in which Mrs. Whitefoot have say that .
`` Just what do you mean , my dear ? ''
Whitefoot ask .
`` I mean , '' reply Mrs. Whitefoot , in a most decided way , `` that it be a very good house for winter , but it wo n't do at all for summer .
That be , it wo n't do for me .
In the first place it be so high up that if we should have baby , I would worry all the time for fear the darling would have a bad fall .
Besides , I do n't like an inside house for summer .
I think , Whitefoot , we must look around and find a new home . ''
As she speak Mrs. Whitefoot be already start down the stub .
Whitefoot follow .
`` All right , my dear , all right , '' say he meekly .
`` You know best .
This seem to me like a very fine home , but of course , if you do n't like it we 'll look for another . ''
Mrs. Whitefoot say nothing , but lead the way down the tree with Whitefoot meekly follow .
Then begin a patient search all about .
Mrs. Whitefoot appear to know just what she want and turn up her nose at several place Whitefoot think would make fine home .
She hardly glance at a fine hollow log Whitefoot find .
She merely poke her nose in at a splendid hole beneath the root of an old stump .
Whitefoot begin to grow tire from run about and climb stump and tree and bush .
He stop to rest and lose sight of Mrs. Whitefoot .
A moment later he hear her call excitedly .
When he find her , she be up in a small tree , sit on the edge of an old nest a few foot above the ground .
It be a nest that have once belong to Melody the Wood Thrush .
Mrs. Whitefoot be sit on the edge of it , and her bright eye snap with excitement and pleasure .
`` I 've find it ! ''
she cry .
`` I 've find it !
It be just what I have be look for . ''
`` Found what ? ''
Whitefoot ask .
`` I do n't see anything but an old nest of Melody 's . ''
`` I 've find the home we 've be look for , stupid , '' retort Mrs. Whitefoot .
Still Whitefoot star .
`` I do n't see any house , '' say he .
Mrs. Whitefoot stamp her foot impatiently .
`` Right here , stupid , '' say she .
`` This old nest will make u the fine and safe home that ever be .
No one will ever think of look for u here .
We must get busy at once and fix it up . ''
Even then Whitefoot do n't understand .
Always he have live either in a hole in the ground , or in a hollow stump or tree .
How they be to live in that old nest he could n't see at all .
CHAPTER XXIX : Making Over An Old House A home be always what you make it .
With love there you will ne'er forsake it .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot climb up to the old nest of Melody the Wood Thrush over the edge of which little Mrs. Whitefoot be look down at him .
It take Whitefoot hardly a moment to get up there , for the nest be only a few foot above the ground in a young tree , and you know Whitefoot be a very good climber .
He find Mrs. Whitefoot very much excite .
She be delight with that old nest and she show it .
For his part , Whitefoot could n't see anything but a deserted old house of no use to any one .
To be sure , it have be a very good home in it time .
It have be make of tiny twig , stalk of old weed , leaf , little fine root and mud .
It be still quite solid , and be firmly fix in a crotch of the young tree .
But Whitefoot could n't see how it could be turn into a home for a Mouse .
He say as much .
Little Mrs. Whitefoot become more excited than ever .
`` You dear old stupid , '' say she , `` whatever be the matter with you ?
Do n't you see that all we need do be to put a roof on , make an entrance on the under side , and make a soft comfortable bed inside to make it a delightful home ? ''
`` I do n't see why we do n't make a new home altogether , '' protest Whitefoot .
`` It seem to me that hollow stub of mine be ever so much good than this .
That have good solid wall , and we wo n't have to do a thing to it . ''
`` I tell you once before that it do n't suit me for summer , '' reply little Mrs. Whitefoot rather sharply , because she be begin to lose patience .
`` It will be all right for winter , but winter be a long way off .
It may suit you for summer , but it do n't suit me , and this place do .
So this be where we be go to live . ''
`` Certainly , my dear .
Certainly , '' reply Whitefoot very meekly .
`` If you want to live here , here we will live .
But I must confess it be n't clear to me yet how we be go to make a decent home out of this old nest . ''
`` Do n't you worry about that , '' reply Mrs. Whitefoot .
`` You can get the material , and I 'll attend to the rest .
Let u waste no time about it .
I be anxious to get our home finish and to feel a little bit settle .
I have already plan just what have get to be do and how we will do it .
Now you go look for some nice soft , dry weed stalk and strip of soft bark , and moss and any other soft , tough material that you can find .
Just get busy and do n't stop to talk . ''
Of course Whitefoot do a he be tell .
He run down to the ground and begin to hunt for the thing Mrs. Whitefoot want .
He be very particular about it .
He still do n't think much of her idea of make over that old home of Melody 's , but if she would do it , he mean that she should have the very best of material to do it with .
So back and forth from the ground to the old nest in the tree Whitefoot hurry , and presently there be quite a pile of weed stalk and soft grass and strip of bark in the old nest .
Mrs. Whitefoot join Whitefoot in hunt for just the right thing , but she spend more time in arrange the material .
Over that old nest she make a fine high roof .
Down through the low side she cut a little round doorway just big enough for them to pass through .
Unless you happen to be underneath look up , you never would have guess there be an entrance at all .
Inside be a snug , round room , and in this she make the soft and most comfortable of bed .
As it begin to look more and more like a home , Whitefoot himself become a excited and eager a Mrs. Whitefoot have be from the beginning .
`` It certainly be go to be a fine home , '' say Whitefoot .
`` Did n't I tell you it would be ? ''
retort Mrs. Whitefoot .
CHAPTER XXX : The Whitefoots Enjoy Their New Home No home be ever mean or poor Where love awaits you at the door .
-- Whitefoot .
`` There , '' say Mrs. Whitefoot , a she work a strip of white birch bark into the roof of the new home she and Whitefoot have be build out of the old home of Melody the Wood Thrush , `` this finish the roof .
I do n't think any water will get through it even in the hard rain . ''
`` It be wonderful , '' declare Whitefoot admiringly .
`` Wherever do you learn to build such a house a this ? ''
`` From my mother , '' reply Mrs. Whitefoot .
`` I be bear in just such a home .
It make the fine kind of a home for Wood Mouse baby . ''
`` You do n't think there be danger that the wind will blow it down , do you ? ''
ventured Whitefoot .
`` Of course I do n't , '' retort little Mrs. Whitefoot scornfully .
`` Has n't this old nest remain right where it be for over a year ?
Do you suppose that if I have think there be the least bit of danger that it would blow down , I would have use it ?
Do credit me with a little sense , my dear . ''
`` Yes 'm , I do , '' reply Whitefoot meekly .
`` You be the most sensible person in all the Great World .
I be n't find fault .
You see , I have always live in a hole in the ground or a hollow stump , or a hole in a tree , and I have not yet become use to a home that move about and rock a this one do when the wind blow .
But if you say it be all right , why of course it be all right .
Probably I will get use to it after awhile . ''
Whitefoot do get use to it .
After living in it for a few day , it no longer seem strange , and he no longer mind it swaying when the wind blew .
The fact be , he rather enjoy it .
So Whitefoot and Mrs. Whitefoot settle down to enjoy their new home .
Now and then they add a bit to it here and there .
Somehow Whitefoot felt unusually safe , safe than he have ever felt in any of his other home .
You see , he have see several feathered folk alight close to it and not give it a second look .
He know that they have see that home , but have mistake it for what it have once be , the deserted home of one of their own number .
Whitefoot have chuckle .
He have chuckle long and heartily .
`` If they make that mistake , '' say he to himself , `` everybody else be likely to make it .
That home of ours be right in plain sight , yet I do believe it be safe than the best hidden home I ever have before .
Shadow the Weasel never will think of climb up this little tree to look at an old nest , and Shadow be the one I be most afraid of . ''
It be only a day or two late that Buster Bear happen along that way .
Now Buster be very fond of tender Wood Mouse .
More than once Whitefoot have have a narrow escape from Buster 's big claw a they tear open an old stump or dug into the ground after him .
He saw Buster glance up at the new home without the slight interest in those shrewd little eye of his .
Then Buster shuffle on to roll over an old log and lick up the ant he find under it .
Again Whitefoot chuckle .
`` Yes , sir , '' say he .
`` It be the safe home I 've ever have . ''
So Whitefoot and little Mrs. Whitefoot be very happy in the home which they have build , and for once in his life Whitefoot do very little worrying .
Life seem more beautiful than it have ever be before .
And he almost forget that there be such a thing a a hungry enemy .
CHAPTER XXXI : Whitefoot Is Hurt The hurt that hard be to bear Come from those for whom we care .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot be hurt .
Yes , sir , Whitefoot be hurt .
He be very much hurt .
It be n't a bodily hurt ; it be an inside hurt .
It be a hurt that make his heart ache .
And to make it bad , he could n't understand it at all .
One evening he have be meet at the little round doorway by little Mrs. Whitefoot .
`` You ca n't come in , '' say she .
`` Why ca n't I ? ''
demanded Whitefoot , in the great surprise .
`` Never mind why .
You ca n't , and that be all there be to it , '' reply Mrs. Whitefoot .
`` You mean I ca n't ever come in any more ? ''
ask Whitefoot .
`` I do n't know about that , '' reply Mrs. Whitefoot , `` but you ca n't come in now , nor for some time .
I think the best thing you can do be to go back to your old home in the hollow stub . ''
Whitefoot star at little Mrs. Whitefoot quite a if he think she have go crazy .
Then he lose his temper .
`` I guess I 'll come in if I want to , '' say he .
`` This home be quite as much my home a it be yours .
You have no right to keep me out of it .
Just you get out of my way . ''
But little Mrs. Whitefoot do n't get out of his way , and do what he would , Whitefoot could n't get in .
You see she quite fill that little round doorway .
Finally , he have to give up try .
Three time he come back and each time he find little Mrs. Whitefoot in the doorway .
And each time she drive him away .
Finally , for lack of any other place to go to , he return to his old home in the old stub .
Once he have think this the fine home possible , but now somehow it do n't suit him at all .
The truth be he miss little Mrs. Whitefoot , and so what have once be a home be now only a place in which to hide and sleep .
Whitefoot 's anger do not last long .
It be replace by that hurt feeling .
He felt that he must have do something little Mrs. Whitefoot do not like , but though he think and think he could n't remember a single thing .
Several time he go back to see if Mrs. Whitefoot felt any differently , but find she do n't .
Finally she tell him rather sharply to go away and stay away .
After that Whitefoot do n't venture over to the new home .
He would sometimes sit a short distance away and gaze at it longingly .
All the joy have go out of the beautiful springtime for him .
He be quite as unhappy a he have be before he meet little Mrs. Whitefoot .
You see , he be even more lonely than he have be then .
And add to this loneliness be that hurt feeling , which make it ever and ever so much bad .
It be very hard to bear .
`` If I could understand it , it would n't be so bad , '' he keep say over and over again to himself , `` but I do n't understand it .
I do n't understand why Mrs. Whitefoot do n't love me any more . ''
CHAPTER XXXII : The Surprise Surprises sometimes be so great You 're tempt to believe in fate .
-- Whitefoot .
One never-to-be forgotten even Whitefoot meet Mrs. Whitefoot and she invite him to come back to their home .
Of course Whitefoot be delight .
`` Sh-h-h , '' say little Mrs. Whitefoot , a Whitefoot enter the snug little room of the house they have build in the old nest of Melody the Wood Thrush .
Whitefoot hesitate .
In the first place , it be dark in there .
In the second place , he have the feeling that somehow that little bedroom seem crowd .
It have n't be that way the last time he be there .
Mrs. Whitefoot be right in front of him , and she seem very much excite about something .
Presently she crowd to one side .
`` Come here and look , '' say she .
Whitefoot look .
In the middle of a soft bed of moss be a squirm mass of leg and funny little head .
At first that be all Whitefoot could make out .
`` Do n't you think this be the most wonderful surprise that ever be ? ''
whisper little Mrs. Whitefoot .
`` Are n't they darlings ?
Are n't you proud of them ? ''
By this time Whitefoot have make out that that squirm mass of leg and head be compose of baby Mice .
He count them .
There be four .
`` Whose be they , and what be they do here ? ''
Whitefoot ask in a queer voice .
`` Why , you old stupid , they be yours , -- yours and mine , '' declare little Mrs. Whitefoot .
`` Did you ever , ever see such beautiful baby ?
Now I guess you understand why I keep you away from here . ''
Whitefoot shake his head .
`` No , '' say he , `` I do n't understand at all .
I do n't see yet what you drive me away for . ''
`` Why , you bless old dear , there be n't room for you when those baby come ; I have to have all the room there be .
It would n't have do to have have you run in and out and disturb them when they be so tiny .
I have to be alone with them , and that be why I make you go off and live by yourself .
I be so proud of them , I do n't know what to do .
Are n't you proud , Whitefoot ?
Are n't you the proud Wood Mouse in all the Green Forest ? ''
Of course Whitefoot should have promptly say that he be , but the truth be , Whitefoot be n't proud at all .
You see , he be so surprised that he have n't yet have time to feel that they be really his .
In fact , just then he felt a wee bit jealous of them .
It come over him that they would take all the time and attention of little Mrs. Whitefoot .
So Whitefoot do n't answer that question .
He simply sit and star at those four squirm baby .
Finally little Mrs. Whitefoot gently push him out and follow him .
`` Of course , '' say she , `` there be n't room for you to stay here now .
You will have to sleep in your old home because there be n't room in here for both of u and the baby too . ''
Whitefoot 's heart sank .
He have think that he be to stay and that everything would be just a it have be before .
`` Ca n't I come over here any more ? ''
he ask rather timidly .
`` What a foolish question ! ''
cry little Mrs. Whitefoot .
`` Of course you can .
You will have to help take care of these baby .
Just as soon a they be big enough , you will have to help teach them how to hunt for food and how to watch out for danger , and all the thing that a wise Wood Mouse know .
Why , they could n't get along without you .
Neither could I , '' she add softly .
At that Whitefoot felt well .
And suddenly there be a queer swell in his heart .
It be the beginning of pride , pride in those wonderful baby .
`` You have give me the best surprise that ever be , my dear , '' say Whitefoot softly .
`` Now I think I will go and look for some supper . ''
So now we will leave Whitefoot and his family .
You see there be two very lively little people of the Green Forest who demand attention and insist on have it .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Washington_Irving___The_Legend_of_Sleepy_Hollow.txt.out
FOUND AMONG THE PAPERS OF THE LATE DIEDRICH KNICKERBOCKER .
A pleasing land of drowsy head it be , Of dream that wave before the half-shut eye ; And of gay castle in the cloud that pas , Forever flush round a summer sky .
CASTLE OF INDOLENCE .
In the bosom of one of those spacious cove which indent the eastern shore of the Hudson , at that broad expansion of the river denominate by the ancient Dutch navigator the Tappan Zee , and where they always prudently shorten sail and implore the protection of St. Nicholas when they cross , there lie a small market town or rural port , which by some be call Greensburgh , but which be more generally and properly know by the name of Tarry Town .
This name be give , we be tell , in former day , by the good housewife of the adjacent country , from the inveterate propensity of their husband to linger about the village tavern on market day .
Be that a it may , I do not vouch for the fact , but merely advert to it , for the sake of be precise and authentic .
Not far from this village , perhaps about two mile , there be a little valley or rather lap of land among high hill , which be one of the quiet place in the whole world .
A small brook glide through it , with just murmur enough to lull one to repose ; and the occasional whistle of a quail or tapping of a woodpecker be almost the only sound that ever break in upon the uniform tranquillity .
I recollect that , when a stripling , my first exploit in squirrel-shooting be in a grove of tall walnut-trees that shade one side of the valley .
I have wander into it at noontime , when all nature be peculiarly quiet , and be startle by the roar of my own gun , a it break the Sabbath stillness around and be prolong and reverberate by the angry echo .
If ever I should wish for a retreat whither I might steal from the world and it distraction , and dream quietly away the remnant of a troubled life , I know of none more promising than this little valley .
From the listless repose of the place , and the peculiar character of it inhabitant , who be descendant from the original Dutch settler , this sequester glen have long be know by the name of SLEEPY HOLLOW , and it rustic lad be call the Sleepy Hollow Boys throughout all the neighboring country .
A drowsy , dreamy influence seem to hang over the land , and to pervade the very atmosphere .
Some say that the place be bewitch by a High German doctor , during the early day of the settlement ; others , that an old Indian chief , the prophet or wizard of his tribe , hold his powwow there before the country be discover by Master Hendrick Hudson .
Certain it be , the place still continue under the sway of some witch power , that hold a spell over the mind of the good people , cause them to walk in a continual reverie .
They be give to all kind of marvellous belief , be subject to trance and vision , and frequently see strange sight , and hear music and voice in the air .
The whole neighborhood abounds with local tale , haunt spot , and twilight superstition ; star shoot and meteor glare oftener across the valley than in any other part of the country , and the nightmare , with her whole ninefold , seem to make it the favorite scene of her gambol .
The dominant spirit , however , that haunt this enchanted region , and seem to be commander-in-chief of all the power of the air , be the apparition of a figure on horseback , without a head .
It be say by some to be the ghost of a Hessian trooper , whose head have be carry away by a cannon-ball , in some nameless battle during the Revolutionary War , and who be ever and anon see by the country folk hurry along in the gloom of night , a if on the wing of the wind .
His haunt be not confine to the valley , but extend at time to the adjacent road , and especially to the vicinity of a church at no great distance .
Indeed , certain of the most authentic historian of those part , who have be careful in collect and collate the float fact concern this spectre , allege that the body of the trooper have be bury in the churchyard , the ghost rid forth to the scene of battle in nightly quest of his head , and that the rush speed with which he sometimes pass along the Hollow , like a midnight blast , be owe to his be belated , and in a hurry to get back to the churchyard before daybreak .
Such be the general purport of this legendary superstition , which have furnish material for many a wild story in that region of shadow ; and the spectre be know at all the country fireside , by the name of the Headless Horseman of Sleepy Hollow .
It be remarkable that the visionary propensity I have mention be not confine to the native inhabitant of the valley , but be unconsciously imbibe by every one who reside there for a time .
However wide awake they may have be before they enter that sleepy region , they be sure , in a little time , to inhale the witch influence of the air , and begin to grow imaginative , to dream dream , and see apparition .
I mention this peaceful spot with all possible laud , for it be in such little retired Dutch valley , find here and there embosomed in the great State of New York , that population , manner , and custom remain fixed , while the great torrent of migration and improvement , which be make such incessant change in other part of this restless country , sweep by them unobserved .
They be like those little nook of still water , which border a rapid stream , where we may see the straw and bubble rid quietly at anchor , or slowly revolve in their mimic harbor , undisturbed by the rush of the passing current .
Though many year have elapse since I tread the drowsy shade of Sleepy Hollow , yet I question whether I should not still find the same tree and the same family vegetate in it sheltered bosom .
In this by-place of nature there abode , in a remote period of American history , that be to say , some thirty year since , a worthy wight of the name of Ichabod Crane , who sojourn , or , a he express it , `` tarry , '' in Sleepy Hollow , for the purpose of instruct the child of the vicinity .
He be a native of Connecticut , a State which supply the Union with pioneer for the mind as well a for the forest , and send forth yearly it legion of frontier woodman and country schoolmaster .
The cognomen of Crane be not inapplicable to his person .
He be tall , but exceedingly lank , with narrow shoulder , long arm and leg , hand that dangle a mile out of his sleeve , foot that might have serve for shovel , and his whole frame most loosely hung together .
His head be small , and flat at top , with huge ear , large green glassy eye , and a long snipe nose , so that it look like a weather-cock perch upon his spindle neck to tell which way the wind blew .
To see him stride along the profile of a hill on a windy day , with his clothes bag and flutter about him , one might have mistake him for the genius of famine descend upon the earth , or some scarecrow elope from a cornfield .
His schoolhouse be a low building of one large room , rudely construct of log ; the window partly glaze , and partly patch with leaf of old copybook .
It be most ingeniously secure at vacant hour , by a withe twist in the handle of the door , and stake set against the window shutter ; so that though a thief might get in with perfect ease , he would find some embarrassment in get out , -- an idea most probably borrow by the architect , Yost Van Houten , from the mystery of an eelpot .
The schoolhouse stand in a rather lonely but pleasant situation , just at the foot of a woody hill , with a brook run close by , and a formidable birch-tree grow at one end of it .
From hence the low murmur of his pupil ' voice , con over their lesson , might be hear in a drowsy summer 's day , like the hum of a beehive ; interrupt now and then by the authoritative voice of the master , in the tone of menace or command , or , peradventure , by the appal sound of the birch , a he urge some tardy loiterer along the flowery path of knowledge .
Truth to say , he be a conscientious man , and ever bore in mind the golden maxim , `` Spare the rod and spoil the child . ''
Ichabod Crane 's scholar certainly be not spoil .
I would not have it imagined , however , that he be one of those cruel potentate of the school who joy in the smart of their subject ; on the contrary , he administer justice with discrimination rather than severity ; take the burden off the back of the weak , and lay it on those of the strong .
Your mere puny stripling , that wince at the least flourish of the rod , be pass by with indulgence ; but the claim of justice be satisfy by inflict a double portion on some little tough wrong-headed , broad-skirted Dutch urchin , who sulk and swell and grow dog and sullen beneath the birch .
All this he call `` do his duty by their parent ; '' and he never inflict a chastisement without follow it by the assurance , so consolatory to the smarting urchin , that `` he would remember it and thank him for it the long day he have to live . ''
When school hour be over , he be even the companion and playmate of the large boy ; and on holiday afternoon would convoy some of the small one home , who happen to have pretty sister , or good housewife for mother , note for the comfort of the cupboard .
Indeed , it behoove him to keep on good term with his pupil .
The revenue arise from his school be small , and would have be scarcely sufficient to furnish him with daily bread , for he be a huge feeder , and , though lank , have the dilate power of an anaconda ; but to help out his maintenance , he be , accord to country custom in those part , board and lodge at the house of the farmer whose child he instruct .
With these he live successively a week at a time , thus go the round of the neighborhood , with all his worldly effect tie up in a cotton handkerchief .
That all this might not be too onerous on the purse of his rustic patron , who be apt to consider the cost of school a grievous burden , and schoolmaster a mere drone , he have various way of render himself both useful and agreeable .
He assist the farmer occasionally in the light labor of their farm , help to make hay , mend the fence , take the horse to water , drive the cow from pasture , and cut wood for the winter fire .
He lay aside , too , all the dominant dignity and absolute sway with which he lord it in his little empire , the school , and become wonderfully gentle and ingratiating .
He find favor in the eye of the mother by pet the child , particularly the young ; and like the lion bold , which whilom so magnanimously the lamb do hold , he would sit with a child on one knee , and rock a cradle with his foot for whole hour together .
In addition to his other vocation , he be the singing-master of the neighborhood , and pick up many bright shilling by instruct the young folk in psalmody .
It be a matter of no little vanity to him on Sundays , to take his station in front of the church gallery , with a band of chosen singer ; where , in his own mind , he completely carry away the palm from the parson .
Certain it be , his voice resound far above all the rest of the congregation ; and there be peculiar quaver still to be hear in that church , and which may even be hear half a mile off , quite to the opposite side of the millpond , on a still Sunday morning , which be say to be legitimately descend from the nose of Ichabod Crane .
Thus , by diver little makeshift , in that ingenious way which be commonly denominate `` by hook and by crook , '' the worthy pedagogue get on tolerably enough , and be think , by all who understand nothing of the labor of headwork , to have a wonderfully easy life of it .
The schoolmaster be generally a man of some importance in the female circle of a rural neighborhood ; be consider a kind of idle , gentlemanlike personage , of vastly superior taste and accomplishment to the rough country swain , and , indeed , inferior in learn only to the parson .
His appearance , therefore , be apt to occasion some little stir at the tea-table of a farmhouse , and the addition of a supernumerary dish of cake or sweetmeat , or , peradventure , the parade of a silver teapot .
Our man of letter , therefore , be peculiarly happy in the smile of all the country damsel .
How he would figure among them in the churchyard , between service on Sundays ; gather grape for them from the wild vine that overrun the surrounding tree ; recite for their amusement all the epitaph on the tombstone ; or sauntering , with a whole bevy of them , along the bank of the adjacent millpond ; while the more bashful country bumpkins hang sheepishly back , envy his superior elegance and address .
From his half-itinerant life , also , he be a kind of travel gazette , carry the whole budget of local gossip from house to house , so that his appearance be always greet with satisfaction .
He be , moreover , esteem by the woman a a man of great erudition , for he have read several book quite through , and be a perfect master of Cotton Mather 's `` History of New England Witchcraft , '' in which , by the way , he most firmly and potently believe .
He be , in fact , an odd mixture of small shrewdness and simple credulity .
His appetite for the marvellous , and his power of digest it , be equally extraordinary ; and both have be increase by his residence in this spell-bound region .
No tale be too gross or monstrous for his capacious swallow .
It be often his delight , after his school be dismiss in the afternoon , to stretch himself on the rich bed of clover border the little brook that whimper by his schoolhouse , and there con over old Mather 's direful tale , until the gather dusk of even make the printed page a mere mist before his eye .
Then , a he wend his way by swamp and stream and awful woodland , to the farmhouse where he happen to be quarter , every sound of nature , at that witch hour , flutter his excited imagination , -- the moan of the whip-poor-will from the hillside , the bode cry of the tree toad , that harbinger of storm , the dreary hooting of the screech owl , or the sudden rustling in the thicket of bird frighten from their roost .
The firefly , too , which sparkle most vividly in the dark place , now and then startle him , a one of uncommon brightness would stream across his path ; and if , by chance , a huge blockhead of a beetle come wing his blunder flight against him , the poor varlet be ready to give up the ghost , with the idea that he be strike with a witch 's token .
His only resource on such occasion , either to drown thought or drive away evil spirit , be to sing psalm tune and the good people of Sleepy Hollow , a they sit by their door of an evening , be often fill with awe at hear his nasal melody , `` in linked sweetness long draw out , '' float from the distant hill , or along the dusky road .
Another of his source of fearful pleasure be to pass long winter evening with the old Dutch wive , a they sit spin by the fire , with a row of apple roast and splutter along the hearth , and listen to their marvellous tale of ghost and goblin , and haunt field , and haunt brook , and haunt bridge , and haunt house , and particularly of the headless horseman , or Galloping Hessian of the Hollow , a they sometimes call him .
He would delight them equally by his anecdote of witchcraft , and of the direful omen and portentous sight and sound in the air , which prevail in the early time of Connecticut ; and would frighten them woefully with speculation upon comet and shoot star ; and with the alarm fact that the world do absolutely turn round , and that they be half the time topsy-turvy !
But if there be a pleasure in all this , while snugly cuddle in the chimney corner of a chamber that be all of a ruddy glow from the crackle wood fire , and where , of course , no spectre dare to show it face , it be dearly purchase by the terror of his subsequent walk homewards .
What fearful shape and shadow beset his path , amidst the dim and ghastly glare of a snowy night !
With what wistful look do he eye every tremble ray of light stream across the waste field from some distant window !
How often be he appal by some shrub cover with snow , which , like a sheeted spectre , beset his very path !
How often do he shrink with curdle awe at the sound of his own step on the frosty crust beneath his foot ; and dread to look over his shoulder , lest he should behold some uncouth be tramp close behind him !
And how often be he thrown into complete dismay by some rush blast , howl among the tree , in the idea that it be the Galloping Hessian on one of his nightly scouring !
All these , however , be mere terror of the night , phantom of the mind that walk in darkness ; and though he have see many spectre in his time , and be more than once beset by Satan in diver shape , in his lonely perambulation , yet daylight put an end to all these evil ; and he would have pass a pleasant life of it , in despite of the Devil and all his work , if his path have not be cross by a be that cause more perplexity to mortal man than ghost , goblin , and the whole race of witch put together , and that be -- a woman .
Among the musical disciple who assemble , one evening in each week , to receive his instruction in psalmody , be Katrina Van Tassel , the daughter and only child of a substantial Dutch farmer .
She be a blooming lass of fresh eighteen ; plump a a partridge ; ripe and melting and rosy-cheeked a one of her father 's peach , and universally famed , not merely for her beauty , but her vast expectation .
She be withal a little of a coquette , a might be perceive even in her dress , which be a mixture of ancient and modern fashion , a most suited to set off her charm .
She wear the ornament of pure yellow gold , which her great-great-grandmother have bring over from Saardam ; the tempt stomacher of the olden time , and withal a provokingly short petticoat , to display the pretty foot and ankle in the country round .
Ichabod Crane have a soft and foolish heart towards the sex ; and it be not to be wonder at that so tempt a morsel soon find favor in his eye , more especially after he have visit her in her paternal mansion .
Old Baltus Van Tassel be a perfect picture of a thriving , content , liberal-hearted farmer .
He seldom , it be true , send either his eye or his thought beyond the boundary of his own farm ; but within those everything be snug , happy and well-conditioned .
He be satisfy with his wealth , but not proud of it ; and pique himself upon the hearty abundance , rather than the style in which he live .
His stronghold be situate on the bank of the Hudson , in one of those green , shelter , fertile nook in which the Dutch farmer be so fond of nestle .
A great elm tree spread it broad branch over it , at the foot of which bubble up a spring of the soft and sweet water , in a little well form of a barrel ; and then steal sparkle away through the grass , to a neighboring brook , that babble along among alder and dwarf willow .
Hard by the farmhouse be a vast barn , that might have serve for a church ; every window and crevice of which seem burst forth with the treasure of the farm ; the flail be busily resound within it from morning to night ; swallow and martin skim twitter about the eaves ; and row of pigeon , some with one eye turn up , a if watch the weather , some with their head under their wing or bury in their bosom , and others swell , and cooing , and bow about their dame , be enjoy the sunshine on the roof .
Sleek unwieldy porker be grunt in the repose and abundance of their pen , from whence sallied forth , now and then , troop of suck pig , a if to snuff the air .
A stately squadron of snowy goose be rid in an adjoining pond , convoy whole fleet of duck ; regiment of turkey be gobble through the farmyard , and Guinea fowl fret about it , like ill-tempered housewife , with their peevish , discontent cry .
Before the barn door strut the gallant cock , that pattern of a husband , a warrior and a fine gentleman , clap his burnished wing and crow in the pride and gladness of his heart , -- sometimes tear up the earth with his foot , and then generously call his ever-hungry family of wife and child to enjoy the rich morsel which he have discover .
The pedagogue 's mouth water a he look upon this sumptuous promise of luxurious winter fare .
In his devouring mind 's eye , he picture to himself every roasting-pig run about with a pudding in his belly , and an apple in his mouth ; the pigeon be snugly put to bed in a comfortable pie , and tuck in with a coverlet of crust ; the goose be swim in their own gravy ; and the duck pair cosily in dish , like snug marry couple , with a decent competency of onion sauce .
In the porker he saw carve out the future sleek side of bacon , and juicy relish ham ; not a turkey but he behold daintily truss up , with it gizzard under it wing , and , peradventure , a necklace of savory sausage ; and even bright chanticleer himself lay sprawl on his back , in a side dish , with uplifted claw , a if crave that quarter which his chivalrous spirit disdain to ask while living .
As the enraptured Ichabod fancy all this , and a he roll his great green eye over the fat meadow land , the rich field of wheat , of rye , of buckwheat , and Indian corn , and the orchard burden with ruddy fruit , which surround the warm tenement of Van Tassel , his heart yearn after the damsel who be to inherit these domain , and his imagination expand with the idea , how they might be readily turn into cash , and the money invest in immense tract of wild land , and shingle palace in the wilderness .
Nay , his busy fancy already realize his hope , and present to him the blooming Katrina , with a whole family of child , mount on the top of a wagon load with household trumpery , with pot and kettle dangle beneath ; and he behold himself bestride a pacing mare , with a colt at her heel , set out for Kentucky , Tennessee , -- or the Lord know where !
When he enter the house , the conquest of his heart be complete .
It be one of those spacious farmhouse , with high-ridged but lowly sloping roof , build in the style hand down from the first Dutch settler ; the low projecting eaves form a piazza along the front , capable of be close up in bad weather .
Under this be hung flail , harness , various utensil of husbandry , and net for fishing in the neighboring river .
Benches be build along the side for summer use ; and a great spinning-wheel at one end , and a churn at the other , show the various us to which this important porch might be devote .
From this piazza the wonder Ichabod enter the hall , which form the centre of the mansion , and the place of usual residence .
Here row of resplendent pewter , range on a long dresser , dazzle his eye .
In one corner stand a huge bag of wool , ready to be spin ; in another , a quantity of linsey-woolsey just from the loom ; ear of Indian corn , and string of dried apple and peach , hung in gay festoon along the wall , mingle with the gaud of red pepper ; and a door leave ajar give him a peep into the best parlor , where the claw-footed chair and dark mahogany table shine like mirror ; andiron , with their accompany shovel and tongs , glisten from their covert of asparagus top ; mock-oranges and conch-shells decorate the mantelpiece ; string of various-colored bird egg be suspend above it ; a great ostrich egg be hang from the centre of the room , and a corner cupboard , knowingly leave open , displayed immense treasure of old silver and well-mended china .
From the moment Ichabod lay his eye upon these region of delight , the peace of his mind be at an end , and his only study be how to gain the affection of the peerless daughter of Van Tassel .
In this enterprise , however , he have more real difficulty than generally fell to the lot of a knight-errant of yore , who seldom have anything but giant , enchanter , fiery dragon , and such like easily conquer adversary , to contend with and have to make his way merely through gate of iron and brass , and wall of adamant to the castle keep , where the lady of his heart be confine ; all which he achieve as easily a a man would carve his way to the centre of a Christmas pie ; and then the lady give him her hand a a matter of course .
Ichabod , on the contrary , have to win his way to the heart of a country coquette , beset with a labyrinth of whim and caprice , which be forever present new difficulty and impediment ; and he have to encounter a host of fearful adversary of real flesh and blood , the numerous rustic admirer , who beset every portal to her heart , keep a watchful and angry eye upon each other , but ready to fly out in the common cause against any new competitor .
Among these , the most formidable be a burly , roaring , roystering blade , of the name of Abraham , or , accord to the Dutch abbreviation , Brom Van Brunt , the hero of the country round , which ring with his feat of strength and hardihood .
He be broad-shouldered and double-jointed , with short curly black hair , and a bluff but not unpleasant countenance , have a mingled air of fun and arrogance .
From his Herculean frame and great power of limb he have receive the nickname of BROM BONES , by which he be universally know .
He be famed for great knowledge and skill in horsemanship , be a dexterous on horseback a a Tartar .
He be foremost at all race and cock fight ; and , with the ascendancy which bodily strength always acquire in rustic life , be the umpire in all dispute , set his hat on one side , and give his decision with an air and tone that admit of no gainsay or appeal .
He be always ready for either a fight or a frolic ; but have more mischief than ill-will in his composition ; and with all his overbear roughness , there be a strong dash of waggish good humor at bottom .
He have three or four boon companion , who regard him a their model , and at the head of whom he scour the country , attend every scene of feud or merriment for mile round .
In cold weather he be distinguish by a fur cap , surmount with a flaunt fox 's tail ; and when the folk at a country gather descry this well-known crest at a distance , whisk about among a squad of hard rider , they always stand by for a squall .
Sometimes his crew would be hear dash along past the farmhouse at midnight , with whoop and halloo , like a troop of Don Cossacks ; and the old dame , startle out of their sleep , would listen for a moment till the hurry-scurry have clatter by , and then exclaim , `` Ay , there go Brom Bones and his gang ! ''
The neighbor look upon him with a mixture of awe , admiration , and good-will ; and , when any madcap prank or rustic brawl occur in the vicinity , always shake their head , and warrant Brom Bones be at the bottom of it .
This rantipole hero have for some time single out the blooming Katrina for the object of his uncouth gallantry , and though his amorous toying be something like the gentle caress and endearment of a bear , yet it be whisper that she do not altogether discourage his hope .
Certain it be , his advance be signal for rival candidate to retire , who felt no inclination to cross a lion in his amour ; insomuch , that when his horse be see tie to Van Tassel 's paling , on a Sunday night , a sure sign that his master be court , or , a it be term , `` sparking , '' within , all other suitor pass by in despair , and carry the war into other quarter .
Such be the formidable rival with whom Ichabod Crane have to contend , and , consider all thing , a stouter man than he would have shrink from the competition , and a wiser man would have despair .
He have , however , a happy mixture of pliability and perseverance in his nature ; he be in form and spirit like a supple-jack -- yielding , but tough ; though he bent , he never break ; and though he bow beneath the slight pressure , yet , the moment it be away -- jerk !
-- he be a erect , and carry his head as high a ever .
To have take the field openly against his rival would have be madness ; for he be not a man to be thwart in his amour , any more than that stormy lover , Achilles .
Ichabod , therefore , make his advance in a quiet and gently insinuating manner .
Under cover of his character of singing-master , he make frequent visit at the farmhouse ; not that he have anything to apprehend from the meddlesome interference of parent , which be so often a stumbling-block in the path of lover .
Balt Van Tassel be an easy indulgent soul ; he love his daughter well even than his pipe , and , like a reasonable man and an excellent father , let her have her way in everything .
His notable little wife , too , have enough to do to attend to her housekeeping and manage her poultry ; for , a she sagely observe , duck and goose be foolish thing , and must be look after , but girl can take care of themselves .
Thus , while the busy dame bustle about the house , or ply her spinning-wheel at one end of the piazza , honest Balt would sit smoke his evening pipe at the other , watch the achievement of a little wooden warrior , who , arm with a sword in each hand , be most valiantly fight the wind on the pinnacle of the barn .
In the mean time , Ichabod would carry on his suit with the daughter by the side of the spring under the great elm , or saunter along in the twilight , that hour so favorable to the lover 's eloquence .
I profess not to know how woman 's heart be woo and win .
To me they have always be matter of riddle and admiration .
Some seem to have but one vulnerable point , or door of access ; while others have a thousand avenue , and may be capture in a thousand different way .
It be a great triumph of skill to gain the former , but a still great proof of generalship to maintain possession of the latter , for man must battle for his fortress at every door and window .
He who win a thousand common heart be therefore entitle to some renown ; but he who keep undisputed sway over the heart of a coquette be indeed a hero .
Certain it be , this be not the case with the redoubtable Brom Bones ; and from the moment Ichabod Crane make his advance , the interest of the former evidently decline : his horse be no long see tie to the paling on Sunday night , and a deadly feud gradually arise between him and the preceptor of Sleepy Hollow .
Brom , who have a degree of rough chivalry in his nature , would fain have carry matter to open warfare and have settle their pretension to the lady , accord to the mode of those most concise and simple reasoner , the knights-errant of yore , -- by single combat ; but Ichabod be too conscious of the superior might of his adversary to enter the list against him ; he have overheard a boast of Bones , that he would `` double the schoolmaster up , and lay him on a shelf of his own schoolhouse ; '' and he be too wary to give him an opportunity .
There be something extremely provoke in this obstinately pacific system ; it leave Brom no alternative but to draw upon the fund of rustic waggery in his disposition , and to play off boorish practical joke upon his rival .
Ichabod become the object of whimsical persecution to Bones and his gang of rough rider .
They harry his hitherto peaceful domain ; smoke out his sing school by stop up the chimney ; break into the schoolhouse at night , in spite of it formidable fastening of withe and window stake , and turn everything topsy-turvy , so that the poor schoolmaster begin to think all the witch in the country hold their meeting there .
But what be still more annoying , Brom take all opportunity of turn him into ridicule in presence of his mistress , and have a scoundrel dog whom he teach to whine in the most ludicrous manner , and introduce a a rival of Ichabod 's , to instruct her in psalmody .
In this way matter go on for some time , without produce any material effect on the relative situation of the contend power .
On a fine autumnal afternoon , Ichabod , in pensive mood , sit enthrone on the lofty stool from whence he usually watch all the concern of his little literary realm .
In his hand he sway a ferule , that sceptre of despotic power ; the birch of justice repose on three nail behind the throne , a constant terror to evil doer , while on the desk before him might be see sundry contraband article and prohibit weapon , detect upon the person of idle urchin , such a half-munched apple , popgun , whirligig , fly-cages , and whole legion of rampant little paper gamecock .
Apparently there have be some appal act of justice recently inflict , for his scholar be all busily intent upon their book , or slyly whisper behind them with one eye keep upon the master ; and a kind of buzz stillness reign throughout the schoolroom .
It be suddenly interrupt by the appearance of a negro in tow-cloth jacket and trowsers , a round-crowned fragment of a hat , like the cap of Mercury , and mount on the back of a ragged , wild , half-broken colt , which he manage with a rope by way of halter .
He come clatter up to the school door with an invitation to Ichabod to attend a merry-making or `` quilting frolic , '' to be hold that even at Mynheer Van Tassel 's ; and have deliver his message with that air of importance , and effort at fine language , which a negro be apt to display on petty embassy of the kind , he dash over the brook , and be see scamper away up the hollow , full of the importance and hurry of his mission .
All be now bustle and hubbub in the late quiet schoolroom .
The scholar be hurry through their lesson without stop at trifle ; those who be nimble skip over half with impunity , and those who be tardy have a smart application now and then in the rear , to quicken their speed or help them over a tall word .
Books be flung aside without be put away on the shelf , inkstand be overturn , bench thrown down , and the whole school be turn loose an hour before the usual time , burst forth like a legion of young imp , yelp and racket about the green in joy at their early emancipation .
The gallant Ichabod now spend at least an extra half hour at his toilet , brushing and furbish up his best , and indeed only suit of rusty black , and arrange his lock by a bit of broken looking-glass that hang up in the schoolhouse .
That he might make his appearance before his mistress in the true style of a cavalier , he borrow a horse from the farmer with whom he be domiciliate , a choleric old Dutchman of the name of Hans Van Ripper , and , thus gallantly mount , issue forth like a knight-errant in quest of adventure .
But it be meet I should , in the true spirit of romantic story , give some account of the look and equipment of my hero and his steed .
The animal he bestride be a broken-down plow-horse , that have outlive almost everything but it viciousness .
He be gaunt and shag , with a ewe neck , and a head like a hammer ; his rusty mane and tail be tangle and knot with bur ; one eye have lose it pupil , and be glare and spectral , but the other have the gleam of a genuine devil in it .
Still he must have have fire and mettle in his day , if we may judge from the name he bore of Gunpowder .
He have , in fact , be a favorite steed of his master 's , the choleric Van Ripper , who be a furious rider , and have infuse , very probably , some of his own spirit into the animal ; for , old and broken-down a he look , there be more of the lurk devil in him than in any young filly in the country .
Ichabod be a suitable figure for such a steed .
He ride with short stirrup , which bring his knee nearly up to the pommel of the saddle ; his sharp elbow stick out like grasshopper ' ; he carry his whip perpendicularly in his hand , like a sceptre , and a his horse jog on , the motion of his arm be not unlike the flapping of a pair of wing .
A small wool hat rest on the top of his nose , for so his scanty strip of forehead might be call , and the skirt of his black coat flutter out almost to the horse tail .
Such be the appearance of Ichabod and his steed a they shamble out of the gate of Hans Van Ripper , and it be altogether such an apparition a be seldom to be meet with in broad daylight .
It be , a I have say , a fine autumnal day ; the sky be clear and serene , and nature wear that rich and golden livery which we always associate with the idea of abundance .
The forest have put on their sober brown and yellow , while some tree of the tenderer kind have be nip by the frost into brilliant dye of orange , purple , and scarlet .
Streaming file of wild duck begin to make their appearance high in the air ; the bark of the squirrel might be hear from the grove of beech and hickory-nuts , and the pensive whistle of the quail at interval from the neighbor stubble field .
The small bird be take their farewell banquet .
In the fullness of their revelry , they flutter , chirp and frolic from bush to bush , and tree to tree , capricious from the very profusion and variety around them .
There be the honest cock robin , the favorite game of stripling sportsman , with it loud querulous note ; and the twittering blackbird fly in sable cloud ; and the golden-winged woodpecker with his crimson crest , his broad black gorget , and splendid plumage ; and the cedar bird , with it red-tipt wing and yellow-tipt tail and it little monteiro cap of feather ; and the blue jay , that noisy coxcomb , in his gay light blue coat and white underclothes , scream and chatter , nod and bob and bowing , and pretend to be on good term with every songster of the grove .
As Ichabod jog slowly on his way , his eye , ever open to every symptom of culinary abundance , range with delight over the treasure of jolly autumn .
On all side he behold vast store of apple ; some hanging in oppressive opulence on the tree ; some gather into basket and barrel for the market ; others heap up in rich pile for the cider-press .
Farther on he behold great field of Indian corn , with it golden ear peep from their leafy covert , and hold out the promise of cake and hasty-pudding ; and the yellow pumpkin lie beneath them , turn up their fair round belly to the sun , and give ample prospect of the most luxurious of pie ; and anon he pass the fragrant buckwheat field breathe the odor of the beehive , and a he behold them , soft anticipation steal over his mind of dainty slapjacks , well butter , and garnish with honey or treacle , by the delicate little dimpled hand of Katrina Van Tassel .
Thus feed his mind with many sweet thought and `` sugared supposition , '' he journey along the side of a range of hill which look out upon some of the goodly scene of the mighty Hudson .
The sun gradually wheel his broad disk down in the west .
The wide bosom of the Tappan Zee lay motionless and glassy , except that here and there a gentle undulation wave and prolong the blue shadow of the distant mountain .
A few amber cloud float in the sky , without a breath of air to move them .
The horizon be of a fine golden tint , change gradually into a pure apple green , and from that into the deep blue of the mid-heaven .
A slanting ray linger on the woody crest of the precipice that overhang some part of the river , give great depth to the dark gray and purple of their rocky side .
A sloop be loiter in the distance , drop slowly down with the tide , her sail hang uselessly against the mast ; and a the reflection of the sky gleam along the still water , it seem a if the vessel be suspend in the air .
It be toward even that Ichabod arrive at the castle of the Heer Van Tassel , which he find throng with the pride and flower of the adjacent country .
Old farmer , a spare leathern-faced race , in homespun coat and breech , blue stocking , huge shoe , and magnificent pewter buckle .
Their brisk , wither little dame , in close-crimped cap , long-waisted short gown , homespun petticoat , with scissors and pincushion , and gay calico pocket hang on the outside .
Buxom lasses , almost as antiquate a their mother , except where a straw hat , a fine ribbon , or perhaps a white frock , give symptom of city innovation .
The son , in short square-skirted coat , with row of stupendous brass button , and their hair generally queue in the fashion of the time , especially if they could procure an eel-skin for the purpose , it be esteem throughout the country a a potent nourisher and strengthener of the hair .
Brom Bones , however , be the hero of the scene , have come to the gathering on his favorite steed Daredevil , a creature , like himself , full of mettle and mischief , and which no one but himself could manage .
He be , in fact , note for prefer vicious animal , give to all kind of trick which keep the rider in constant risk of his neck , for he hold a tractable , well-broken horse a unworthy of a lad of spirit .
Fain would I pause to dwell upon the world of charm that burst upon the enraptured gaze of my hero , a he enter the state parlor of Van Tassel 's mansion .
Not those of the bevy of buxom lass , with their luxurious display of red and white ; but the ample charm of a genuine Dutch country tea-table , in the sumptuous time of autumn .
Such heap up platter of cake of various and almost indescribable kind , know only to experience Dutch housewife !
There be the doughty doughnut , the tender oly koek , and the crisp and crumble cruller ; sweet cake and short cake , ginger cake and honey cake , and the whole family of cake .
And then there be apple pie , and peach pie , and pumpkin pie ; besides slice of ham and smoke beef ; and moreover delectable dish of preserved plum , and peach , and pear , and quince ; not to mention broil shad and roast chicken ; together with bowl of milk and cream , all mingle higgledy-piggledy , pretty much a I have enumerate them , with the motherly teapot send up it cloud of vapor from the midst -- Heaven bless the mark !
I want breath and time to discuss this banquet a it deserve , and be too eager to get on with my story .
Happily , Ichabod Crane be not in so great a hurry a his historian , but do ample justice to every dainty .
He be a kind and thankful creature , whose heart dilate in proportion a his skin be fill with good cheer , and whose spirit rise with eating , a some men 's do with drink .
He could not help , too , roll his large eye round him a he eat , and chuckle with the possibility that he might one day be lord of all this scene of almost unimaginable luxury and splendor .
Then , he think , how soon he 'd turn his back upon the old schoolhouse ; snap his finger in the face of Hans Van Ripper , and every other niggardly patron , and kick any itinerant pedagogue out of door that should dare to call him comrade !
Old Baltus Van Tassel move about among his guest with a face dilate with content and good humor , round and jolly a the harvest moon .
His hospitable attention be brief , but expressive , be confine to a shake of the hand , a slap on the shoulder , a loud laugh , and a press invitation to `` fall to , and help themselves . ''
And now the sound of the music from the common room , or hall , summon to the dance .
The musician be an old gray-headed negro , who have be the itinerant orchestra of the neighborhood for more than half a century .
His instrument be a old and batter a himself .
The great part of the time he scrap on two or three string , accompany every movement of the bow with a motion of the head ; bow almost to the ground , and stamp with his foot whenever a fresh couple be to start .
Ichabod pride himself upon his dancing as much a upon his vocal power .
Not a limb , not a fibre about him be idle ; and to have see his loosely hung frame in full motion , and clatter about the room , you would have think St. Vitus himself , that bless patron of the dance , be figure before you in person .
He be the admiration of all the negro ; who , have gather , of all age and size , from the farm and the neighborhood , stand form a pyramid of shin black face at every door and window , gaze with delight at the scene , roll their white eyeball , and show grin row of ivory from ear to ear .
How could the flogger of urchin be otherwise than animate and joyous ?
The lady of his heart be his partner in the dance , and smile graciously in reply to all his amorous oglings ; while Brom Bones , sorely smite with love and jealousy , sit brooding by himself in one corner .
When the dance be at an end , Ichabod be attract to a knot of the sager folk , who , with Old Van Tassel , sit smoking at one end of the piazza , gossip over former time , and draw out long story about the war .
This neighborhood , at the time of which I be speak , be one of those highly favored place which abound with chronicle and great men .
The British and American line have run near it during the war ; it have , therefore , be the scene of marauding and infest with refugee , cowboy , and all kind of border chivalry .
Just sufficient time have elapse to enable each storyteller to dress up his tale with a little become fiction , and , in the indistinctness of his recollection , to make himself the hero of every exploit .
There be the story of Doffue Martling , a large blue-bearded Dutchman , who have nearly take a British frigate with an old iron nine-pounder from a mud breastwork , only that his gun burst at the sixth discharge .
And there be an old gentleman who shall be nameless , be too rich a mynheer to be lightly mention , who , in the battle of White Plains , be an excellent master of defence , parry a musket-ball with a small sword , insomuch that he absolutely felt it whiz round the blade , and glance off at the hilt ; in proof of which he be ready at any time to show the sword , with the hilt a little bent .
There be several more that have be equally great in the field , not one of whom but be persuade that he have a considerable hand in bring the war to a happy termination .
But all these be nothing to the tale of ghost and apparition that succeed .
The neighborhood be rich in legendary treasure of the kind .
Local tale and superstition thrive best in these shelter , long-settled retreat ; but be trample under foot by the shifting throng that form the population of most of our country place .
Besides , there be no encouragement for ghost in most of our village , for they have scarcely have time to finish their first nap and turn themselves in their graf , before their surviving friend have travel away from the neighborhood ; so that when they turn out at night to walk their round , they have no acquaintance leave to call upon .
This be perhaps the reason why we so seldom hear of ghost except in our long-established Dutch community .
The immediate cause , however , of the prevalence of supernatural story in these part , be doubtless owe to the vicinity of Sleepy Hollow .
There be a contagion in the very air that blow from that haunted region ; it breathe forth an atmosphere of dream and fancy infect all the land .
Several of the Sleepy Hollow people be present at Van Tassel 's , and , a usual , be doling out their wild and wonderful legend .
Many dismal tale be tell about funeral train , and mourn cry and wailing heard and see about the great tree where the unfortunate Major Andr be take , and which stand in the neighborhood .
Some mention be make also of the woman in white , that haunt the dark glen at Raven Rock , and be often hear to shriek on winter night before a storm , have perish there in the snow .
The chief part of the story , however , turn upon the favorite spectre of Sleepy Hollow , the Headless Horseman , who have be heard several time of late , patrol the country ; and , it be say , tether his horse nightly among the graf in the churchyard .
The sequestered situation of this church seem always to have make it a favorite haunt of troubled spirit .
It stand on a knoll , surround by locust-trees and lofty elm , from among which it decent , whitewash wall shine modestly forth , like Christian purity beam through the shade of retirement .
A gentle slope descend from it to a silver sheet of water , border by high tree , between which , peep may be catch at the blue hill of the Hudson .
To look upon it grass-grown yard , where the sunbeam seem to sleep so quietly , one would think that there at least the dead might rest in peace .
On one side of the church extend a wide woody dell , along which rave a large brook among broken rock and trunk of fall tree .
Over a deep black part of the stream , not far from the church , be formerly throw a wooden bridge ; the road that lead to it , and the bridge itself , be thickly shade by overhang tree , which cast a gloom about it , even in the daytime ; but occasion a fearful darkness at night .
Such be one of the favorite haunt of the Headless Horseman , and the place where he be most frequently encounter .
The tale be tell of old Brouwer , a most heretical disbeliever in ghost , how he meet the Horseman return from his foray into Sleepy Hollow , and be oblige to get up behind him ; how they gallop over bush and brake , over hill and swamp , until they reach the bridge ; when the Horseman suddenly turn into a skeleton , throw old Brouwer into the brook , and spring away over the tree-tops with a clap of thunder .
This story be immediately match by a thrice marvellous adventure of Brom Bones , who make light of the Galloping Hessian a an arrant jockey .
He affirm that on return one night from the neighboring village of Sing Sing , he have be overtake by this midnight trooper ; that he have offer to race with him for a bowl of punch , and should have win it too , for Daredevil beat the goblin horse all hollow , but just a they come to the church bridge , the Hessian bolt , and vanish in a flash of fire .
All these tale , tell in that drowsy undertone with which men talk in the dark , the countenance of the listener only now and then receive a casual gleam from the glare of a pipe , sink deep in the mind of Ichabod .
He repay them in kind with large extract from his invaluable author , Cotton Mather , and add many marvellous event that have take place in his native State of Connecticut , and fearful sight which he have see in his nightly walk about Sleepy Hollow .
The revel now gradually break up .
The old farmer gather together their family in their wagon , and be hear for some time rattle along the hollow road , and over the distant hill .
Some of the damsel mount on pillion behind their favorite swain , and their light-hearted laughter , mingle with the clatter of hoof , echoed along the silent woodland , sound fainter and fainter , until they gradually die away , -- and the late scene of noise and frolic be all silent and desert .
Ichabod only linger behind , accord to the custom of country lover , to have a tte--tte with the heiress ; fully convince that he be now on the high road to success .
What pass at this interview I will not pretend to say , for in fact I do not know .
Something , however , I fear me , must have go wrong , for he certainly sallied forth , after no very great interval , with an air quite desolate and chapfallen .
Oh , these woman !
these woman !
Could that girl have be play off any of her coquettish trick ?
Was her encouragement of the poor pedagogue all a mere sham to secure her conquest of his rival ?
Heaven only know , not I !
Let it suffice to say , Ichabod steal forth with the air of one who have be sack a henroost , rather than a fair lady 's heart .
Without look to the right or leave to notice the scene of rural wealth , on which he have so often gloated , he go straight to the stable , and with several hearty cuff and kick rouse his steed most uncourteously from the comfortable quarter in which he be soundly sleeping , dreaming of mountain of corn and oat , and whole valley of timothy and clover .
It be the very witching time of night that Ichabod , heavy-hearted and crestfallen , pursue his travel homewards , along the side of the lofty hill which rise above Tarry Town , and which he have traverse so cheerily in the afternoon .
The hour be as dismal a himself .
Far below him the Tappan Zee spread it dusky and indistinct waste of water , with here and there the tall mast of a sloop , rid quietly at anchor under the land .
In the dead hush of midnight , he could even hear the barking of the watchdog from the opposite shore of the Hudson ; but it be so vague and faint a only to give an idea of his distance from this faithful companion of man .
Now and then , too , the long-drawn crowing of a cock , accidentally awaken , would sound far , far off , from some farmhouse away among the hill -- but it be like a dream sound in his ear .
No sign of life occur near him , but occasionally the melancholy chirp of a cricket , or perhaps the guttural twang of a bullfrog from a neighboring marsh , a if sleeping uncomfortably and turn suddenly in his bed .
All the story of ghost and goblin that he have hear in the afternoon now come crowd upon his recollection .
The night grow darker and darker ; the star seem to sink deeper in the sky , and drive cloud occasionally hide them from his sight .
He have never felt so lonely and dismal .
He be , moreover , approach the very place where many of the scene of the ghost story have be lay .
In the centre of the road stand an enormous tulip-tree , which tower like a giant above all the other tree of the neighborhood , and form a kind of landmark .
Its limb be gnarl and fantastic , large enough to form trunk for ordinary tree , twist down almost to the earth , and rise again into the air .
It be connect with the tragical story of the unfortunate Andr , who have be take prisoner hard by ; and be universally know by the name of Major Andr 's tree .
The common people regard it with a mixture of respect and superstition , partly out of sympathy for the fate of it ill-starred namesake , and partly from the tale of strange sight , and doleful lamentation , tell concern it .
As Ichabod approach this fearful tree , he begin to whistle ; he think his whistle be answer ; it be but a blast sweeping sharply through the dry branch .
As he approach a little nearer , he think he saw something white , hang in the midst of the tree : he pause and cease whistling but , on look more narrowly , perceive that it be a place where the tree have be scathed by lightning , and the white wood laid bare .
Suddenly he hear a groan -- his teeth chatter , and his knee smite against the saddle : it be but the rubbing of one huge bough upon another , a they be sway about by the breeze .
He pass the tree in safety , but new peril lay before him .
About two hundred yard from the tree , a small brook cross the road , and run into a marshy and thickly-wooded glen , know by the name of Wiley 's Swamp .
A few rough log , lay side by side , serve for a bridge over this stream .
On that side of the road where the brook enter the wood , a group of oak and chestnut , mat thick with wild grape-vines , throw a cavernous gloom over it .
To pass this bridge be the severe trial .
It be at this identical spot that the unfortunate Andr be capture , and under the covert of those chestnut and vine be the sturdy yeoman conceal who surprise him .
This have ever since be consider a haunt stream , and fearful be the feeling of the schoolboy who have to pass it alone after dark .
As he approach the stream , his heart begin to thump ; he summon up , however , all his resolution , give his horse half a score of kick in the rib , and attempt to dash briskly across the bridge ; but instead of start forward , the perverse old animal make a lateral movement , and run broadside against the fence .
Ichabod , whose fear increase with the delay , jerk the rein on the other side , and kick lustily with the contrary foot : it be all in vain ; his steed start , it be true , but it be only to plunge to the opposite side of the road into a thicket of bramble and alder bush .
The schoolmaster now bestow both whip and heel upon the starveling rib of old Gunpowder , who dash forward , snuffle and snort , but come to a stand just by the bridge , with a suddenness that have nearly send his rider sprawling over his head .
Just at this moment a plashy tramp by the side of the bridge catch the sensitive ear of Ichabod .
In the dark shadow of the grove , on the margin of the brook , he behold something huge , misshapen and towering .
It stir not , but seem gather up in the gloom , like some gigantic monster ready to spring upon the traveller .
The hair of the affrighted pedagogue rise upon his head with terror .
What be to be do ?
To turn and fly be now too late ; and besides , what chance be there of escape ghost or goblin , if such it be , which could ride upon the wing of the wind ?
Summoning up , therefore , a show of courage , he demand in stammer accent , `` Who be you ? ''
He receive no reply .
He repeat his demand in a still more agitated voice .
Still there be no answer .
Once more he cudgel the side of the inflexible Gunpowder , and , shut his eye , break forth with involuntary fervor into a psalm tune .
Just then the shadowy object of alarm put itself in motion , and with a scramble and a bound stand at once in the middle of the road .
Though the night be dark and dismal , yet the form of the unknown might now in some degree be ascertain .
He appear to be a horseman of large dimension , and mount on a black horse of powerful frame .
He make no offer of molestation or sociability , but keep aloof on one side of the road , jog along on the blind side of old Gunpowder , who have now get over his fright and waywardness .
Ichabod , who have no relish for this strange midnight companion , and bethink himself of the adventure of Brom Bones with the Galloping Hessian , now quicken his steed in hope of leave him behind .
The stranger , however , quicken his horse to an equal pace .
Ichabod pull up , and fell into a walk , think to lag behind , -- the other do the same .
His heart begin to sink within him ; he endeavor to resume his psalm tune , but his parched tongue clove to the roof of his mouth , and he could not utter a stave .
There be something in the moody and dog silence of this pertinacious companion that be mysterious and appalling .
It be soon fearfully account for .
On mount a rise ground , which bring the figure of his fellow-traveller in relief against the sky , gigantic in height , and muffle in a cloak , Ichabod be horror-struck on perceive that he be headless !
-- but his horror be still more increase on observe that the head , which should have rest on his shoulder , be carry before him on the pommel of his saddle !
His terror rise to desperation ; he rain a shower of kick and blow upon Gunpowder , hop by a sudden movement to give his companion the slip ; but the spectre start full jump with him .
Away , then , they dash through thick and thin ; stone fly and spark flash at every bound .
Ichabod 's flimsy garment flutter in the air , a he stretch his long lank body away over his horse 's head , in the eagerness of his flight .
They have now reach the road which turn off to Sleepy Hollow ; but Gunpowder , who seem possess with a demon , instead of keep up it , make an opposite turn , and plunge headlong downhill to the left .
This road lead through a sandy hollow shade by tree for about a quarter of a mile , where it cross the bridge famous in goblin story ; and just beyond swell the green knoll on which stand the whitewashed church .
As yet the panic of the steed have give his unskilful rider an apparent advantage in the chase , but just a he have get half way through the hollow , the girth of the saddle give way , and he felt it slip from under him .
He seize it by the pommel , and endeavor to hold it firm , but in vain ; and have just time to save himself by clasp old Gunpowder round the neck , when the saddle fell to the earth , and he hear it trample under foot by his pursuer .
For a moment the terror of Hans Van Ripper 's wrath pass across his mind , -- for it be his Sunday saddle ; but this be no time for petty fear ; the goblin be hard on his haunch ; and -LRB- unskilful rider that he be ! -RRB-
he have much ado to maintain his seat ; sometimes slip on one side , sometimes on another , and sometimes jolt on the high ridge of his horse 's backbone , with a violence that he verily fear would cleave him asunder .
An opening in the tree now cheer him with the hope that the church bridge be at hand .
The waver reflection of a silver star in the bosom of the brook tell him that he be not mistake .
He saw the wall of the church dimly glare under the tree beyond .
He recollect the place where Brom Bones 's ghostly competitor have disappear .
`` If I can but reach that bridge , '' think Ichabod , `` I be safe . ''
Just then he hear the black steed panting and blow close behind him ; he even fancy that he felt his hot breath .
Another convulsive kick in the rib , and old Gunpowder sprang upon the bridge ; he thunder over the resounding plank ; he gain the opposite side ; and now Ichabod cast a look behind to see if his pursuer should vanish , accord to rule , in a flash of fire and brimstone .
Just then he saw the goblin rise in his stirrup , and in the very act of hurl his head at him .
Ichabod endeavor to dodge the horrible missile , but too late .
It encounter his cranium with a tremendous crash , -- he be tumble headlong into the dust , and Gunpowder , the black steed , and the goblin rider , pass by like a whirlwind .
The next morning the old horse be find without his saddle , and with the bridle under his foot , soberly crop the grass at his master 's gate .
Ichabod do not make his appearance at breakfast ; dinner-hour come , but no Ichabod .
The boy assemble at the schoolhouse , and stroll idly about the bank of the brook ; but no schoolmaster .
Hans Van Ripper now begin to feel some uneasiness about the fate of poor Ichabod , and his saddle .
An inquiry be set on foot , and after diligent investigation they come upon his trace .
In one part of the road lead to the church be find the saddle trample in the dirt ; the track of horse ' hoof deeply dent in the road , and evidently at furious speed , be trace to the bridge , beyond which , on the bank of a broad part of the brook , where the water run deep and black , be find the hat of the unfortunate Ichabod , and close beside it a shattered pumpkin .
The brook be search , but the body of the schoolmaster be not to be discover .
Hans Van Ripper a executor of his estate , examine the bundle which contain all his worldly effect .
They consist of two shirt and a half ; two stock for the neck ; a pair or two of worsted stocking ; an old pair of corduroy small-clothes ; a rusty razor ; a book of psalm tune full of dog 's - ear ; and a broken pitch-pipe .
As to the book and furniture of the schoolhouse , they belong to the community , except Cotton Mather 's `` History of Witchcraft , '' a `` New England Almanac , '' and a book of dream and fortune-telling ; in which last be a sheet of foolscap much scribble and blot in several fruitless attempt to make a copy of verse in honor of the heiress of Van Tassel .
These magic book and the poetic scrawl be forthwith consign to the flame by Hans Van Ripper ; who , from that time forward , determine to send his child no more to school , observe that he never know any good come of this same reading and writing .
Whatever money the schoolmaster possess , and he have receive his quarter 's pay but a day or two before , he must have have about his person at the time of his disappearance .
The mysterious event cause much speculation at the church on the following Sunday .
Knots of gazers and gossip be collect in the churchyard , at the bridge , and at the spot where the hat and pumpkin have be find .
The story of Brouwer , of Bones , and a whole budget of others be call to mind ; and when they have diligently consider them all , and compare them with the symptom of the present case , they shake their head , and come to the conclusion that Ichabod have be carry off by the Galloping Hessian .
As he be a bachelor , and in nobody 's debt , nobody trouble his head any more about him ; the school be remove to a different quarter of the hollow , and another pedagogue reign in his stead .
It be true , an old farmer , who have be down to New York on a visit several year after , and from whom this account of the ghostly adventure be receive , bring home the intelligence that Ichabod Crane be still alive ; that he have leave the neighborhood partly through fear of the goblin and Hans Van Ripper , and partly in mortification at have be suddenly dismiss by the heiress ; that he have change his quarter to a distant part of the country ; have keep school and study law at the same time ; have be admit to the bar ; turned politician ; electioneer ; write for the newspaper ; and finally have be make a justice of the Ten Pound Court .
Brom Bones , too , who , shortly after his rival 's disappearance conduct the bloom Katrina in triumph to the altar , be observe to look exceedingly know whenever the story of Ichabod be relate , and always burst into a hearty laugh at the mention of the pumpkin ; which lead some to suspect that he know more about the matter than he choose to tell .
The old country wife , however , who be the best judge of these matter , maintain to this day that Ichabod be spirit away by supernatural mean ; and it be a favorite story often tell about the neighborhood round the winter evening fire .
The bridge become more than ever an object of superstitious awe ; and that may be the reason why the road have be alter of late year , so a to approach the church by the border of the millpond .
The schoolhouse be desert soon fell to decay , and be report to be haunt by the ghost of the unfortunate pedagogue and the plowboy , loiter homeward of a still summer evening , have often fancy his voice at a distance , chant a melancholy psalm tune among the tranquil solitude of Sleepy Hollow .
POSTSCRIPT .
FOUND IN THE HANDWRITING OF MR. KNICKERBOCKER .
The precede tale be give almost in the precise word in which I hear it relate at a Corporation meeting at the ancient city of Manhattoes , at which be present many of it sage and most illustrious burgher .
The narrator be a pleasant , shabby , gentlemanly old fellow , in pepper-and-salt clothes , with a sadly humourous face , and one whom I strongly suspect of be poor -- he make such effort to be entertain .
When his story be conclude , there be much laughter and approbation , particularly from two or three deputy alderman , who have be asleep the great part of the time .
There be , however , one tall , dry-looking old gentleman , with beetling eyebrow , who maintain a grave and rather severe face throughout , now and then fold his arm , incline his head , and look down upon the floor , a if turn a doubt over in his mind .
He be one of your wary men , who never laugh but upon good ground -- when they have reason and law on their side .
When the mirth of the rest of the company have subside , and silence be restore , he lean one arm on the elbow of his chair , and stick the other akimbo , demand , with a slight , but exceedingly sage motion of the head , and contraction of the brow , what be the moral of the story , and what it go to prove ?
The story-teller , who be just put a glass of wine to his lip , a a refreshment after his toil , pause for a moment , look at his inquirer with an air of infinite deference , and , lower the glass slowly to the table , observe that the story be intend most logically to prove -- `` That there be no situation in life but have it advantage and pleasure -- provide we will but take a joke a we find it : `` That , therefore , he that run race with goblin trooper be likely to have rough riding of it .
`` Ergo , for a country schoolmaster to be refuse the hand of a Dutch heiress be a certain step to high preferment in the state . ''
The cautious old gentleman knit his brow tenfold closer after this explanation , be sorely puzzle by the ratiocination of the syllogism , while , methought , the one in pepper-and-salt eye him with something of a triumphant leer .
At length he observe that all this be very well , but still he think the story a little on the extravagant -- there be one or two point on which he have his doubt .
`` Faith , sir , '' reply the story-teller , `` a to that matter , I do n't believe one-half of it myself . ''
D. K .

