She do not at all resent his use Walter 's pet name for her ; it sound beautifully in his low caressing tone , with just the faint suggestion of emphasis on the `` my . ''
It would have be so nice if she have not make a fool of herself .
She dare not look up l she should see laughter in his eye .
So she look down ; and a her lash be very long and dark and her lid very thick and creamy , the effect be quite charming and provocative , and Kenneth reflect that Rilla Blythe be go to be the beauty of the Ingleside girl after all .
He want to make her look up -- to catch again that little , demure , question glance .
She be the pretty thing at the party , there be no doubt of that .
What be he say ?
Rilla could hardly believe her ear .
`` Can we have a dance ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Rilla .
She say it with such a fierce determination not to lisp that she fairly blurt the word out .
Then she writhe in spirit again .
It sound so bold -- so eager -- a if she be fairly jump at him !
What would he think of her ?
Oh , why do dreadful thing like this happen , just when a girl want to appear at her best ?
Kenneth draw her in among the dancer .
`` I think this game ankle of mine be good for one hop around , at least , '' he say .
`` How be your ankle ? ''
say Rilla .
Oh , why could n't she think of something else to say ?
She know he be sick of inquiry about his ankle .
She have hear him say so at Ingleside -- hear him tell Di he be go to wear a placard on his breast announce to all and sundry that the ankle be improve , etc . .
And now she must go and ask this stale question again .
Kenneth be tire of inquiry about his ankle .
But then he have not often be ask about it by lip with such an adorable kissable dent just above them .
Perhaps that be why he answer very patiently that it be get on well and do n't trouble him much , if he do n't walk or stand too long at a time .
`` They tell me it will be as strong a ever in time , but I 'll have to cut football out this fall . ''
They dance together and Rilla know every girl in sight envy her .
After the dance they go down the rock step and Kenneth find a little flat and they row across the moonlit channel to the sand-shore ; they walk on the sand till Kenneth 's ankle make protest and then they sit down among the dune .
Kenneth talk to her a he have talk to Nan and Di .
Rilla , overcome with a shyness she do not understand , could not talk much , and think he would think her frightfully stupid ; but in spite of this it be all very wonderful -- the exquisite moonlit night , the shin sea , the tiny little wavelet swish on the sand , the cool and freakish wind of night crooning in the stiff grass on the crest of the dune , the music sound faintly and sweetly over the channel . '' '
A merry lilt o ' moonlight for mermaiden revelry , ' '' quote Kenneth softly from one of Walter 's poem .
And just he and she alone together in the glamour of sound and sight !
If only her slipper do n't bite so !
and if only she could talk cleverly like Miss Oliver -- nay , if she could only talk a she do herself to other boy !
But word would not come , she could only listen and murmur little commonplace sentence now and again .
But perhaps her dreamy eye and her dented lip and her slender throat talk eloquently for her .
At any rate Kenneth seem in no hurry to suggest go back and when they do go back supper be in progress .
He find a seat for her near the window of the lighthouse kitchen and sat on the sill beside her while she eat her ice and cake .
Rilla look about her and think how lovely her first party have be .
She would never forget it .
The room re-echoed to laughter and jest .
Beautiful young eye sparkle and shone .
From the pavilion outside come the lilt of the fiddle and the rhythmic step of the dancer .
There be a little disturbance among a group of boy crowd about the door ; a young fellow push through and halt on the threshold , look about him rather sombrely .
It be Jack Elliott from over-harbour -- a McGill medical student , a quiet chap not much addict to social doings .
He have be invite to the party but have not be expect to come since he have to go to Charlottetown that day and could not be back until late .
Yet here he be -- and he carry a folded paper in his hand .
Gertrude Oliver look at him from her corner and shiver again .
She have enjoy the party herself , after all , for she have foregather with a Charlottetown acquaintance who , be a stranger and much old than most of the guest , felt himself rather out of it , and have be glad to fall in with this clever girl who could talk of world doings and outside event with the zest and vigour of a man .
In the pleasure of his society she have forget some of her misgiving of the day .
Now they suddenly return to her .
What news do Jack Elliott bring ?
Lines from an old poem flash unbidden into her mind -- `` there be a sound of revelry by night '' -- `` Hush !
Hark !
A deep sound strike like a rise knell '' -- why should she think of that now ?
Why do n't Jack Elliott speak -- if he have anything to tell ?
Why do he just stand there , glower importantly ?
`` Ask him -- ask him , '' she say feverishly to Allan Daly .
But somebody else have already ask him .
The room grow very silent all at once .
Outside the fiddler have stop for a rest and there be silence there too .
Afar off they hear the low moan of the gulf -- the presage of a storm already on it way up the Atlantic .
A girl 's laugh drift up from the rock and die away a if frighten out of existence by the sudden stillness .
`` England declare war on Germany today , '' say Jack Elliott slowly .
`` The news come by wire just a I leave town . ''
`` God help u , '' whisper Gertrude Oliver under her breath .
`` My dream -- my dream !
The first wave have break . ''
She look at Allan Daly and try to smile .
`` Is this Armageddon ? ''
she ask .
`` I be afraid so , '' he say gravely .
A chorus of exclamation have arise round them -- light surprise and idle interest for the most part .
Few there realize the import of the message -- few still realize that it mean anything to them .
Before long the dancing be on again and the hum of pleasure be as loud a ever .
Gertrude and Allan Daly talk the news over in low , troubled tone .
Walter Blythe have turn pale and leave the room .
Outside he meet Jem , hurry up the rock step .
`` Have you hear the news , Jem ? ''
`` Yes .
The Piper have come .
Hurrah !
I know England would n't leave France in the lurch .
I 've be try to get Captain Josiah to hoist the flag but he say it be n't the proper caper till sunrise .
Jack say they 'll be call for volunteer tomorrow . ''
`` What a fuss to make over nothing , '' say Mary Vance disdainfully a Jem dash off .
She be sit out with Miller Douglas on a lobster trap which be not only an unromantic but an uncomfortable seat .
But Mary and Miller be both supremely happy on it .
Miller Douglas be a big , strapping , uncouth lad , who think Mary Vance 's tongue uncommonly gift and Mary Vance 's white eye star of the first magnitude ; and neither of them have the least inkling why Jem Blythe want to hoist the lighthouse flag .
`` What do it matter if there 's go to be a war over there in Europe ?
I 'm sure it do n't concern u . ''
Walter look at her and have one of his odd visitation of prophecy .
`` Before this war be over , '' he say -- or something say through his lip -- `` every man and woman and child in Canada will feel it -- you , Mary , will feel it -- feel it to your heart 's core .
You will weep tear of blood over it .
The Piper have come -- and he will pipe until every corner of the world have hear his awful and irresistible music .
It will be year before the dance of death be over -- year , Mary .
And in those year million of heart will break . ''
`` Fancy now ! ''
say Mary who always say that when she could n't think of anything else to say .
She do n't know what Walter meant but she felt uncomfortable .
Walter Blythe be always say odd thing .
That old Piper of his -- she have n't hear anything about him since their playday in Rainbow Valley -- and now here he be bob up again .
She do n't like it , and that be the long and short of it .
`` Are n't you paint it rather strong , Walter ? ''
ask Harvey Crawford , come up just then .
`` This war wo n't last for year -- it 'll be over in a month or two .
England will just wipe Germany off the map in no time . ''
`` Do you think a war for which Germany have be prepare for twenty year will be over in a few week ? ''
say Walter passionately .
`` This be n't a paltry struggle in a Balkan corner , Harvey .
It be a death grapple .
Germany come to conquer or to die .
And do you know what will happen if she conquers ?
Canada will be a German colony . ''
`` Well , I guess a few thing will happen before that , '' say Harvey shrug his shoulder .
`` The British navy would have to be lick for one ; and for another , Miller here , now , and I , we 'd raise a dust , would n't we , Miller ?
No Germans need apply for this old country , eh ? ''
Harvey run down the step laugh .
`` I declare , I think all you boys talk the craziest stuff , '' say Mary Vance in disgust .
She get up and drag Miller off to the rock-shore .
It do n't happen often that they have a chance for a talk together ; Mary be determine that this one should n't be spoil by Walter Blythe 's silly blather about Pipers and Germans and such like absurd thing .
They leave Walter stand alone on the rock step , look out over the beauty of Four Winds with brood eye that saw it not .
The best of the evening be over for Rilla , too .
Ever since Jack Elliott 's announcement , she have sense that Kenneth be no longer think about her .
She felt suddenly lonely and unhappy .
It be bad than if he have never notice her at all .
Was life like this -- something delightful happening and then , just a you be revel in it , slip away from you ?
Rilla tell herself pathetically that she felt year old than when she have leave home that even .
Perhaps she do -- perhaps she be .
Who know ?
It do not do to laugh at the pang of youth .
They be very terrible because youth have not yet learn that `` this , too , will pass away . ''
Rilla sigh and wish she be home , in bed , cry into her pillow .
`` Tired ? ''
say Kenneth , gently but absently -- oh , so absently .
He really do n't care a bit whether she be tire or not , she think .
`` Kenneth , '' she venture timidly , `` you do n't think this war will matter much to u in Canada , do you ? ''
`` Matter ?
Of course it will matter to the lucky fellow who will be able to take a hand .
I wo n't -- thank to this confound ankle .
Rotten luck , I call it . ''
`` I do n't see why we should fight England 's battle , '' cry Rilla .
`` She 's quite able to fight them herself . ''
`` That be n't the point .
We be part of the British Empire .
It 's a family affair .
We 've get to stand by each other .
The bad of it be , it will be over before I can be of any use . ''
`` Do you mean that you would really volunteer to go if it be n't for your ankle ?
ask Rilla incredulously .
`` Sure I would .
You see they 'll go by thousand .
Jem 'll be off , I 'll bet a cent -- Walter wo n't be strong enough yet , I suppose .
And Jerry Meredith -- he 'll go !
And I be worry about be out of football this year ! ''
Rilla be too startled to say anything .
Jem -- and Jerry !
Nonsense !
Why father and Mr. Meredith would n't allow it .
They be n't through college .
Oh , why have n't Jack Elliott keep his horrid news to himself ?
Mark Warren come up and ask her to dance .
Rilla go , know Kenneth do n't care whether she go or stay .
An hour ago on the sand-shore he have be look at her a if she be the only be of any importance in the world .
And now she be nobody .
His thought be full of this Great Game which be to be play out on bloodstained field with empire for stake -- a Game in which womenkind could have no part .
Women , think Rilla miserably , just have to sit and cry at home .
But all this be foolishness .
Kenneth could n't go -- he admit that himself -- and Walter could n't -- thank goodness for that -- and Jem and Jerry would have more sense .
She would n't worry -- she would enjoy herself .
But how awkward Mark Warren be !
How he bungle his step !
Why , for mercy 's sake , do boy try to dance who do n't know the first thing about dancing ; and who have foot as big a boat ?
There , he have bump her into somebody !
She would never dance with him again !
She dance with others , though the zest be go out of the performance and she have begin to realize that her slipper hurt her badly .
Kenneth seem to have go -- at least nothing be to be see of him .
Her first party be spoil , though it have seem so beautiful at one time .
Her head ache -- her toe burn .
And worse be yet to come .
She have go down with some over-harbour friend to the rock-shore where they all linger a dance after dance go on above them .
It be cool and pleasant and they be tire .
Rilla sit silent , take no part in the gay conversation .
She be glad when someone call down that the over-harbour boat be leave .
A laughing scramble up the lighthouse rock follow .
A few couple still whirl about in the pavilion but the crowd have thin out .
Rilla look about her for the Glen group .
She could not see one of them .
She run into the lighthouse .
Still , no sign of anybody .
In dismay she run to the rock step , down which the over-harbour guest be hurry .
She could see the boat below -- where be Jem 's -- where be Joe 's ?
`` Why , Rilla Blythe , I think you 'd be go home long ago , '' say Mary Vance , who be wave her scarf at a boat skim up the channel , skipper by Miller Douglas .
`` Where be the rest ? ''
gasp Rilla .
`` Why , they 're go -- Jem go an hour ago -- Una have a headache .
And the rest go with Joe about fifteen minute ago .
See -- they 're just go around Birch Point .
I do n't go because it 's get rough and I know I 'd be seasick .
I do n't mind walk home from here .
It 's only a mile and a half .
I s ` pose you 'd go .
Where be you ? ''
`` Down on the rock with Jem and Mollie Crawford .
Oh , why do n't they look for me ? ''
`` They do -- but you could n't be find .
Then they conclude you must have go in the other boat .
Do n't worry .
You can stay all night with me and we 'll ` phone up to Ingleside where you be . ''
Rilla realize that there be nothing else to do .
Her lip tremble and tear come into her eye .
She blink savagely -- she would not let Mary Vance see her cry .
But to be forget like this !
To think nobody have think it worth while to make sure where she be -- not even Walter .
Then she have a sudden dismayed recollection .
`` My shoe , '' she exclaim .
`` I leave them in the boat . ''
`` Well , I never , '' say Mary .
`` You 're the most thoughtless kid I ever saw .
You 'll have to ask Hazel Lewison to lend you a pair of shoe . ''
`` I wo n't . ''
cry Rilla , who do n't like the say Hazel .
`` I 'll go barefoot first . ''
Mary shrug her shoulder .
`` Just a you like .
Pride must suffer pain .
It 'll teach you to be more careful .
Well , let 's hike . ''
Accordingly they hike .
But to `` hike '' along a deep-rutted , pebbly lane in frail , silver-hued slipper with high French heel , be not an exhilarating performance .
Rilla manage to limp and totter along until they reach the harbour road ; but she could go no farther in those detestable slipper .
She take them and her dear silk stocking off and start barefoot .
That be not pleasant either ; her foot be very tender and the pebble and rut of the road hurt them .
Her blistered heel smart .
But physical pain be almost forget in the sting of humiliation .
This be a nice predicament !
If Kenneth Ford could see her now , limp along like a little girl with a stone bruise !
Oh , what a horrid way for her lovely party to end !
She just have to cry -- it be too terrible .
Nobody care for her -- nobody bother about her at all .
Well , if she catch cold from walk home barefoot on a dew-wet road and go into a decline perhaps they would be sorry .
She furtively wipe her tear away with her scarf -- handkerchief seem to have vanish like shoe !
-- but she could not help sniffling .
Worse and bad !
`` You 've get a cold , I see , '' say Mary .
`` You ought to have know you would , sit down in the wind on those rock .
Your mother wo n't let you go out again in a hurry I can tell you .
It 's certainly be something of a party .
The Lewisons know how to do thing , I 'll say that for them , though Hazel Lewison be no choice of mine .
My , how black she look when she saw you dance with Ken Ford .
And so do that little hussy of an Ethel Reese .
What a flirt he be ! ''
`` I do n't think he 's a flirt , '' say Rilla as defiantly a two desperate sniff would let her .
`` You 'll know more about men when you 're as old a I be , '' say Mary patronizingly .
`` Mind you , it do n't do to believe all they tell you .
Do n't let Ken Ford think that all he have to do to get you on a string be to drop his handkerchief .
Have more spirit than that , child . ''
To be thus hector and patronize by Mary Vance be unendurable !
And it be unendurable to walk on stony road with blistered heel and bare foot !
And it be unendurable to be cry and have no handkerchief and not to be able to stop cry !
`` I 'm not think '' -- sniff -- `` about Kenneth '' -- sniff -- `` Ford '' -- two sniff -- `` at all , '' cry tortured Rilla .
`` There 's no need to fly off the handle , child .
You ought to be willing to take advice from old people .
I saw how you slip over to the sand with Ken and stay there ever so long with him .
Your mother would n't like it if she know . ''
`` I 'll tell my mother all about it -- and Miss Oliver -- and Walter , '' Rilla gasp between sniff .
`` You sit for hour with Miller Douglas on that lobster trap , Mary Vance !
What would Mrs. Elliott say to that if she know ? ''
`` Oh , I 'm not go to quarrel with you , '' say Mary , suddenly retreat to high and lofty ground .
`` All I say be , you should wait until you 're grown-up before you do thing like that . ''
Rilla give up try to hide the fact that she be cry .
Everything be spoil -- even that beautiful , dreamy , romantic , moonlit hour with Kenneth on the sand be vulgarize and cheapen .
She loathe Mary Vance .
`` Why , whatever 's wrong ? ''
cry mystified Mary .
`` What be you cry for ? ''
`` My foot -- hurt so -- '' sob Rilla cling to the last shred of her pride .
It be less humiliate to admit cry because of your foot than because -- because somebody have be amuse himself with you , and your friend have forget you , and other people patronize you .
`` I daresay they do , '' say Mary , not unkindly .
`` Never mind .
I know where there 's a pot of goose-grease in Cornelia 's tidy pantry and it beat all the fancy cold cream in the world .
I 'll put some on your heel before you go to bed . ''
Goose-grease on your heel !
So this be what your first party and your first beau and your first moonlit romance end in !
Rilla give over cry in sheer disgust at the futility of tear and go to sleep in Mary Vance 's bed in the calm of despair .
Outside , the dawn come greyly in on wing of storm ; Captain Josiah , true to his word , run up the Union Jack at the Four Winds Light and it stream on the fierce wind against the clouded sky like a gallant unquenchable beacon .
CHAPTER V `` THE SOUND OF A GOING '' Rilla run down through the sunlit glory of the maple grove behind Ingleside , to her favourite nook in Rainbow Valley .
She sit down on a green-mossed stone among the fern , prop her chin on her hand and star unseeingly at the dazzle blue sky of the August afternoon -- so blue , so peaceful , so unchanged , just a it have arch over the valley in the mellow day of late summer ever since she could remember .
She want to be alone -- to think thing out -- to adjust herself , if it be possible , to the new world into which she seem to have be transplant with a suddenness and completeness that leave her half bewilder a to her own identity .
Was she -- could she be -- the same Rilla Blythe who have dance at Four Winds Light six day ago -- only six day ago ?
It seem to Rilla that she have live as much in those six day a in all her previous life -- and if it be true that we should count time by heart-throbs she have .
That evening , with it hope and fear and triumph and humiliation , seem like ancient history now .
Could she really ever have cry just because she have be forget and have to walk home with Mary Vance ?
Ah , think Rilla sadly , how trivial and absurd such a cause of tear now appear to her .
She could cry now with a right good will -- but she would not -- she must not .
What be it mother have say , look , with her white lip and stricken eye , a Rilla have never see her mother look before , `` When our woman fail in courage , Shall our men be fearless still ? ''
Yes , that be it .
She must be brave -- like mother -- and Nan -- and Faith -- Faith , who have cry with flashing eye , `` Oh , if I be only a man , to go too ! ''
Only , when her eye ached and her throat burn like this she have to hide herself in Rainbow Valley for a little , just to think thing out and remember that she be n't a child any long -- she be grown-up and woman have to face thing like this .
But it be -- nice -- to get away alone now and then , where nobody could see her and where she need n't feel that people think her a little coward if some tear come in spite of her .
How sweet and woodsey the fern smell !
How softly the great feathery bough of the fir wave and murmur over her !
How elfinly ring the bell of the `` Tree Lovers '' -- just a tinkle now and then a the breeze sweep by !
How purple and elusive the haze where incense be be offer on many an altar of the hill !
How the maple leave whiten in the wind until the grove seem cover with pale silvery blossom !
Everything be just the same a she have see it hundreds of time ; and yet the whole face of the world seem change .
`` How wicked I be to wish that something dramatic would happen ! ''
she think .
`` Oh , if we could only have those dear , monotonous , pleasant day back again !
I would never , never grumble about them again . ''
Rilla 's world have tumble to piece the very day after the party .
As they linger around the dinner table at Ingleside , talk of the war , the telephone have rung .
It be a long-distance call from Charlottetown for Jem .
When he have finish talk he hang up the receiver and turn around , with a flushed face and glowing eye .
Before he have say a word his mother and Nan and Di have turn pale .
As for Rilla , for the first time in her life she felt that every one must hear her heart beating and that something have clutch at her throat .
`` They be call for volunteer in town , father , '' say Jem .
`` Scores have join up already .
I 'm go in tonight to enlist . ''
`` Oh -- Little Jem , '' cry Mrs. Blythe brokenly .
She have not call him that for many year -- not since the day he have rebel against it .
`` Oh -- no -- no -- Little Jem . ''
`` I must , mother .
I 'm right -- be I not , father ? ''
say Jem .
Dr. Blythe have rise .
He be very pale , too , and his voice be husky .
But he do not hesitate .
`` Yes , Jem , yes -- if you feel that way , yes -- '' Mrs. Blythe cover her face .
Walter star moodily at his plate .
Nan and Di clasp each others ' hand .
Shirley try to look unconcerned .
Susan sit a if paralysed , her piece of pie half-eaten on her plate .
Susan never do finish that piece of pie -- a fact which bore eloquent testimony to the upheaval in her inner woman for Susan consider it a cardinal offence against civilize society to begin to eat anything and not finish it .
That be wilful waste , hens to the contrary notwithstanding .
Jem turn to the phone again .
`` I must ring the manse .
Jerry will want to go , too . ''
At this Nan have cry out `` Oh ! ''
a if a knife have be thrust into her , and rush from the room .
Di follow her .
Rilla turn to Walter for comfort but Walter be lose to her in some reverie she could not share .
`` All right , '' Jem be say , as coolly a if he be arrange the detail of a picnic .
`` I think you would -- yes , tonight -- the seven o'clock -- meet me at the station .
So long . ''
`` Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan .
`` I wish you would wake me up .
Am I dream -- or be I awake ?
Does that bless boy realize what he be say ?
Does he mean that he be go to enlist a a soldier ?
You do not mean to tell me that they want child like him !
It be an outrage .
Surely you and the doctor will not permit it . ''
`` We ca n't stop him , '' say Mrs. Blythe , chokingly .
`` Oh , Gilbert ! ''
Dr. Blythe come up behind his wife and take her hand gently , look down into the sweet grey eye that he have only once before see fill with such implore anguish a now .
They both thought of that other time -- the day year ago in the House of Dreams when little Joyce have die .
`` Would you have him stay , Anne -- when the others be go -- when he think it his duty -- would you have him so selfish and small-souled ? ''
`` No -- no !
But -- oh -- our first-born son -- he 's only a lad -- Gilbert -- I 'll try to be brave after a while -- just now I ca n't .
It 's all come so suddenly .
Give me time . ''
The doctor and his wife go out of the room .
Jem have go -- Walter have go -- Shirley get up to go .
Rilla and Susan remain star at each other across the desert table .
Rilla have not yet cry -- she be too stun for tear .
Then she saw that Susan be cry -- Susan , whom she have never see shed a tear before .
`` Oh , Susan , will he really go ? ''
she ask .
`` It -- it -- it be just ridiculous , that be what it be , '' say Susan .
She wipe away her tear , gulp resolutely and get up .
`` I be go to wash the dish .
That have to be do , even if everybody have go crazy .
There now , dearie , do not you cry .
Jem will go , most likely -- but the war will be over long before he get anywhere near it .
Let u take a brace and not worry your poor mother . ''
`` In the Enterprise today it be report that Lord Kitchener say the war will last three year , '' say Rilla dubiously .
`` I be not acquaint with Lord Kitchener , '' say Susan , composedly , `` but I dare say he make mistake as often a other people .
Your father say it will be over in a few month and I have as much faith in his opinion a I have in Lord Anybody 's .
So just let u be calm and trust in the Almighty and get this place tidy up .
I be do with cry which be a waste of time and discourage everybody . ''
Jem and Jerry go to Charlottetown that night and two day later they come back in khaki .
The Glen hum with excitement over it .
Life at Ingleside have suddenly become a tense , strain , thrill thing .
Mrs. Blythe and Nan be brave and smile and wonderful .
Already Mrs. Blythe and Miss Cornelia be organize a Red Cross .
The doctor and Mr. Meredith be round up the men for a Patriotic Society .
Rilla , after the first shock , react to the romance of it all , in spite of her heartache .
Jem certainly look magnificent in his uniform .
It be splendid to think of the lad of Canada answer so speedily and fearlessly and uncalculatingly to the call of their country .
Rilla carry her head high among the girl whose brother have not so responded .
In her diary she write : `` He go to do what I have do Had Douglas 's daughter be his son , '' and be sure she mean it .
If she be a boy of course she would go , too !
She have n't the least doubt of that .
She wonder if it be very dreadful of her to feel glad that Walter have n't get strong as soon a they have wish after the fever .
`` I could n't bear to have Walter go , '' she write .
`` I love Jem ever so much but Walter mean more to me than anyone in the world and I would die if he have to go .
He seem so change these day .
He hardly ever talk to me .
I suppose he want to go , too , and feel badly because he ca n't .
He do n't go about with Jem and Jerry at all .
I shall never forget Susan 's face when Jem come home in his khaki .
It work and twist a if she be go to cry , but all she say be , ` You look almost like a man in that , Jem . '
Jem laugh .
He never mind because Susan think him just a child still .
Everybody seem busy but me .
I wish there be something I could do but there do n't seem to be anything .
Mother and Nan and Di be busy all the time and I just wander about like a lonely ghost .
What hurt me terribly , though , be that mother 's smile , and Nan 's , just seem put on from the outside .
Mother 's eye never laugh now .
It make me feel that I should n't laugh either -- that it 's wicked to feel laughy .
And it 's so hard for me to keep from laugh , even if Jem be go to be a soldier .
But when I laugh I do n't enjoy it either , a I use to do .
There 's something behind it all that keep hurt me -- especially when I wake up in the night .
Then I cry because I be afraid that Kitchener of Khartoum be right and the war will last for year and Jem may be -- but no , I wo n't write it .
It would make me feel a if it be really go to happen .
The other day Nan say , ` Nothing can ever be quite the same for any of u again . '
It make me feel rebellious .
Why should n't thing be the same again -- when everything be over and Jem and Jerry be back ?
We 'll all be happy and jolly again and these day will seem just like a bad dream .
`` The come of the mail be the most exciting event of every day now .
Father just snatch the paper -- I never saw father snatch before -- and the rest of u crowd round and look at the headline over his shoulder .
Susan vow she do not and will not believe a word the paper say but she always come to the kitchen door , and listens and then go back , shake her head .
She be terribly indignant all the time , but she cook up all the thing Jem like especially , and she do not make a single bit of fuss when she find Monday asleep on the spare-room bed yesterday right on top of Mrs. Rachel Lynde 's apple-leaf spread .
` The Almighty only know where your master will be have to sleep before long , you poor dumb beast , ' she say a she put him quite gently out .
But she never relent towards Doc .
She say the minute he saw Jem in khaki he turn into Mr. Hyde then and there and she think that ought to be proof enough of what he really be .
Susan be funny , but she be an old dear .
Shirley say she be one half angel and the other half good cook .
But then Shirley be the only one of u she never scold .
`` Faith Meredith be wonderful .
I think she and Jem be really engage now .
She go about with a shin light in her eye , but her smile be a little stiff and starched , just like mother 's .
I wonder if I could be as brave a she be if I have a lover and he be go to the war .
It be bad enough when it be your brother .
Bruce Meredith cry all night , Mrs. Meredith say , when he hear Jem and Jerry be go .
And he want to know if the ' K of K. ' his father talk about be the King of Kings .
He be the dear kiddy .
I just love him -- though I do n't really care much for child .
I do n't like baby one bit -- though when I say so people look at me a if I have say something perfectly shock .
Well , I do n't , and I 've get to be honest about it .
I do n't mind look at a nice clean baby if somebody else hold it -- but I would n't touch it for anything and I do n't feel a single real spark of interest in it .
Gertrude Oliver say she just feel the same .
-LRB- She be the most honest person I know .
She never pretend anything . -RRB-
She say baby bore her until they be old enough to talk and then she like them -- but still a good way off .
Mother and Nan and Di all adore baby and seem to think I 'm unnatural because I do n't .
`` I have n't see Kenneth since the night of the party .
He be here one evening after Jem come back but I happen to be away .
I do n't think he mention me at all -- at least nobody tell me he do and I be determine I would n't ask -- but I do n't care in the least .
All that matter absolutely nothing to me now .
The only thing that do matter be that Jem have volunteer for active service and will be go to Valcartier in a few more day -- my big , splendid brother Jem .
Oh , I 'm so proud of him !
`` I suppose Kenneth would enlist too if it be n't for his ankle .
I think that be quite providential .
He be his mother 's only son and how dreadful she would feel if he go .
Only son should never think of go ! ''
Walter come wander through the valley a Rilla sit there , with his head bent and his hand clasp behind him .
When he saw Rilla he turn abruptly away ; then a abruptly he turn and come back to her .
`` Rilla-my-Rilla , what be you think of ? ''
`` Everything be so change , Walter , '' say Rilla wistfully .
`` Even you -- you 're change .
A week ago we be all so happy -- and -- and -- now I just ca n't find myself at all .
I 'm lose . ''
Walter sit down on a neighbouring stone and take Rilla 's little appealing hand .
`` I 'm afraid our old world have come to an end , Rilla .
We 've get to face that fact . ''
`` It 's so terrible to think of Jem , '' plead Rilla .
`` Sometimes I forget for a little while what it really mean and feel excited and proud -- and then it come over me again like a cold wind . ''
`` I envy Jem ! ''
say Walter moodily .
`` Envy Jem !
Oh , Walter you -- you do n't want to go too . ''
`` No , '' say Walter , gaze straight before him down the emerald vista of the valley , `` no , I do n't want to go .
That 's just the trouble .
Rilla , I 'm afraid to go .
I 'm a coward . ''
`` You 're not ! ''
Rilla burst out angrily .
`` Why , anybody would be afraid to go .
You might be -- why , you might be kill . ''
`` I would n't mind that if it do n't hurt , '' mutter Walter .
`` I do n't think I 'm afraid of death itself -- it 's of the pain that might come before death -- it would n't be so bad to die and have it over -- but to keep on die !
Rilla , I 've always be afraid of pain -- you know that .
I ca n't help it -- I shudder when I think of the possibility of be mangle or -- or blind .
Rilla , I can not face that thought .
To be blind -- never to see the beauty of the world again -- moonlight on Four Winds -- the star twinkle through the fir-trees -- mist on the gulf .
I ought to go -- I ought to want to go -- but I do n't -- I hate the thought of it -- I 'm ashamed -- ashamed . ''
`` But , Walter , you could n't go anyhow , '' say Rilla piteously .
She be sick with a new terror that Walter would go after all .
`` You 're not strong enough . ''
`` I be .
I 've felt as fit a ever I do this last month .
I 'd pass any examination -- I know it .
Everybody think I 'm not strong yet -- and I 'm skulk behind that belief .
I -- I should have be a girl , '' Walter conclude in a burst of passionate bitterness .
`` Even if you be strong enough , you ought n't to go , '' sob Rilla .
`` What would mother do ?
She 's break her heart over Jem .
It would kill her to see you both go . ''
`` Oh , I 'm not go -- do n't worry .
I tell you I 'm afraid to go -- afraid .
I do n't mince the matter to myself .
It 's a relief to own up even to you , Rilla .
I would n't confess it to anybody else -- Nan and Di would despise me .
But I hate the whole thing -- the horror , the pain , the ugliness .
War be n't a khaki uniform or a drill parade -- everything I 've read in old history haunt me .
I lie awake at night and see thing that have happen -- see the blood and filth and misery of it all .
And a bayonet charge !
If I could face the other thing I could never face that .
It turn me sick to think of it -- sicker even to think of give it than receive it -- to think of thrust a bayonet through another man . ''
Walter writhe and shudder .
`` I think of these thing all the time -- and it do n't seem to me that Jem and Jerry ever think of them .
They laugh and talk about ` pot Huns ' !
But it madden me to see them in the khaki .
And they think I 'm grumpy because I 'm not fit to go . ''
Walter laugh bitterly .
`` It be not a nice thing to feel yourself a coward . ''
But Rilla get her arm about him and cuddle her head on his shoulder .
She be so glad he do n't want to go -- for just one minute she have be horribly frighten .
And it be so nice to have Walter confide his trouble to her -- to her , not Di .
She do n't feel so lonely and superfluous any longer .
`` Do n't you despise me , Rilla-my-Rilla ? ''
ask Walter wistfully .
Somehow , it hurt him to think Rilla might despise him -- hurt him as much a if it have be Di .
He realize suddenly how very fond he be of this adore kid sister with her appeal eye and trouble , girlish face .
`` No , I do n't .
Why , Walter , hundred of people feel just a you do .
You know what that verse of Shakespeare in the old Fifth Reader say -- ` the brave man be not he who feel no fear . ' ''
`` No -- but it be ` he whose noble soul it fear subdues . '
I do n't do that .
We ca n't gloss it over , Rilla .
I 'm a coward . ''
`` You 're not .
Think of how you fight Dan Reese long ago . ''
`` One spurt of courage be n't enough for a lifetime . ''
`` Walter , one time I hear father say that the trouble with you be a sensitive nature and a vivid imagination .
You feel thing before they really come -- feel them all alone when there be n't anything to help you bear them -- to take away from them .
It be n't anything to be ashamed of .
When you and Jem get your hand burn when the grass be fire on the sand-hills two year ago Jem make twice the fuss over the pain that you do .
As for this horrid old war , there 'll be plenty to go without you .
It wo n't last long . ''
`` I wish I could believe it .
Well , it 's supper-time , Rilla .
You 'd better run .
I do n't want anything . ''
`` Neither do I. I could n't eat a mouthful .
Let me stay here with you , Walter .
It 's such a comfort to talk thing over with someone .
The rest all think that I 'm too much of a baby to understand . ''
So they two sit there in the old valley until the even star shone through a pale-grey , gauzy cloud over the maple grove , and a fragrant dewy darkness fill their little sylvan dell .
It be one of the evening Rilla be to treasure in remembrance all her life -- the first one on which Walter have ever talk to her a if she be a woman and not a child .
They comfort and strengthen each other .
Walter felt , for the time be at least , that it be not such a despicable thing after all to dread the horror of war ; and Rilla be glad to be make the confidante of his struggle -- to sympathize with and encourage him .
She be of importance to somebody .
When they go back to Ingleside they find caller sit on the veranda .
Mr. and Mrs. Meredith have come over from the manse , and Mr. and Mrs. Norman Douglas have come up from the farm .
Cousin Sophia be there also , sit with Susan in the shadowy background .
Mrs. Blythe and Nan and Di be away , but Dr. Blythe be home and so be Dr. Jekyll , sit in golden majesty on the top step .
And of course they be all talk of the war , except Dr. Jekyll who keep his own counsel and look contempt a only a cat can .
When two people foregather in those day they talk of the war ; and old Highland Sandy of the Harbour Head talk of it when he be alone and hurl anathema at the Kaiser across all the acre of his farm .
Walter slip away , not care to see or be see , but Rilla sit down on the step , where the garden mint be dewy and pungent .
It be a very calm even with a dim , golden afterlight irradiate the glen .
She felt happy than at any time in the dreadful week that have pass .
She be no longer haunt by the fear that Walter would go .
`` I 'd go myself if I be twenty year younger , '' Norman Douglas be shout .
Norman always shout when he be excite .
`` I 'd show the Kaiser a thing or two !
Did I ever say there be n't a hell ?
Of course there 's a hell -- dozen of hell -- hundred of hell -- where the Kaiser and all his brood be bind for . ''
`` I know this war be come , '' say Mrs. Norman triumphantly .
`` I saw it come right along .
I could have tell all those stupid Englishmen what be ahead of them .
I tell you , John Meredith , year ago what the Kaiser be up to but you would n't believe it .
You say he would never plunge the world in war .
Who be right about the Kaiser , John ?
You -- or I ?
Tell me that . ''
`` You be , I admit , '' say Mr. Meredith .
`` It 's too late to admit it now , '' say Mrs. Norman , shake her head , a if to intimate that if John Meredith have admit it sooner there might have be no war .
`` Thank God , England 's navy be ready , '' say the doctor .
`` Amen to that , '' nod Mrs. Norman .
`` Bat-blind a most of them be somebody have foresight enough to see to that . ''
`` Maybe England 'll manage not to get into trouble over it , '' say Cousin Sophia plaintively .
`` I dunno .
But I 'm much afraid . ''
`` One would suppose that England be in trouble over it already , up to her neck , Sophia Crawford , '' say Susan .
`` But your way of thinking be beyond me and always be .
It be my opinion that the British Navy will settle Germany in a jiffy and that we be all get work up over nothing . ''
Susan spat out the word a if she want to convince herself more than anybody else .
She have her little store of homely philosophy to guide her through life , but she have nothing to buckler her against the thunderbolt of the week that have just pass .
What have an honest , hard-working , Presbyterian old maid of Glen St. Mary to do with a war thousand of mile away ?
Susan felt that it be indecent that she should have to be disturb by it .
`` The British army will settle Germany , '' shout Norman .
`` Just wait till it get into line and the Kaiser will find that real war be a different thing from parade round Berlin with your moustache cock up . ''
`` Britain have n't get an army , '' say Mrs. Norman emphatically .
`` You need n't glare at me , Norman .
Glaring wo n't make soldier out of timothy stalk .
A hundred thousand men will just be a mouthful for Germany 's million . ''
`` There 'll be some tough chewing in the mouthful , I reckon , '' persist Norman valiantly .
`` Germany 'll break her teeth on it .
Do n't you tell me one Britisher be n't a match for ten foreigner .
I could polish off a dozen of 'em myself with both hand tie behind my back ! ''
`` I be told , '' say Susan , `` that old Mr. Pryor do not believe in this war .
I be told that he say England go into it just because she be jealous of Germany and that she do not really care in the least what happen to Belgium . ''
`` I believe he 's be talk some such rot , '' say Norman .
`` I have n't hear him .
When I do , Whiskers-on-the-moon wo n't know what happen to him .
That precious relative of mine , Kitty Alec , hold forth to the same effect , I understand .
Not before me , though -- somehow , folk do n't indulge in that kind of conversation in my presence .
Lord love you , they 've a kind of presentiment , so to speak , that it would n't be healthy for their complaint . ''
`` I be much afraid that this war have be send a a punishment for our sin , '' say Cousin Sophia , unclasp her pale hand from her lap and reclasping them solemnly over her stomach . ''
` The world be very evil -- the time be wax late . ' ''
`` Parson here 's get something of the same idea , '' chuckle Norman .
`` Have n't you , Parson ?
That 's why you preach t ` other night on the text ` Without shed of blood there be no remission of sin . '
I do n't agree with you -- want to get up in the pew and shout out that there be n't a word of sense in what you be say , but Ellen , here , she hold me down .
I never have any fun sass parson since I get marry . ''
`` Without shed of blood there be no anything , '' say Mr. Meredith , in the gentle dreamy way which have an unexpected trick of convince his hearer .
`` Everything , it seem to me , have to be purchase by self-sacrifice .
Our race have mark every step of it painful ascent with blood .
And now torrent of it must flow again .
No , Mrs. Crawford , I do n't think the war have be send a a punishment for sin .
I think it be the price humanity must pay for some blessing -- some advance great enough to be worth the price -- which we may not live to see but which our child 's child will inherit . ''
`` If Jerry be kill will you feel so fine about it ? ''
demand Norman , who have be say thing like that all his life and never could be make to see any reason why he should n't .
`` Now , never mind kick me in the shin , Ellen .
I want to see if Parson mean what he say or if it be just a pulpit frill . ''
Mr. Meredith 's face quiver .
He have have a terrible hour alone in his study on the night Jem and Jerry have go to town .
But he answer quietly .
`` Whatever I felt , it could not alter my belief -- my assurance that a country whose son be ready to lay down their life in her defence will win a new vision because of their sacrifice . ''
`` You do mean it , Parson .
I can always tell when people mean what they say .
It 's a gift that be bear in me .
Makes me a terror to most parson , that !
But I 've never catch you yet say anything you do n't mean .
I 'm always hop I will -- that 's what reconcile me to go to church .
It 'd be such a comfort to me -- such a weapon to batter Ellen here with when she try to civilize me .
Well , I 'm off over the road to see Ab .
Crawford a minute .
The god be good to you all . ''
`` The old pagan ! ''
mutter Susan , a Norman stride away .
She do not care if Ellen Douglas do hear her .
Susan could never understand why fire do not descend from heaven upon Norman Douglas when he insult minister the way he do .
But the astonishing thing be Mr. Meredith seem really to like his brother-in-law .
Rilla wish they would talk of something besides war .
She have hear nothing else for a week and she be really a little tired of it .
Now that she be relieve from her haunt fear that Walter would want to go it make her quite impatient .
But she suppose -- with a sigh -- that there would be three or four month of it yet .
CHAPTER VI SUSAN , RILLA , AND DOG MONDAY MAKE A RESOLUTION The big living-room at Ingleside be snow over with drift of white cotton .
Word have come from Red Cross headquarters that sheet and bandage would be require .
Nan and Di and Rilla be hard at work .
Mrs. Blythe and Susan be upstairs in the boy ' room , engage in a more personal task .
With dry , anguished eye they be pack up Jem 's belonging .
He must leave for Valcartier the next morning .
They have be expect the word but it be none the less dreadful when it come .
Rilla be baste the hem of a sheet for the first time in her life .
When the word have come that Jem must go she have her cry out among the pine in Rainbow Valley and then she have go to her mother .
`` Mother , I want to do something .
I 'm only a girl -- I ca n't do anything to win the war -- but I must do something to help at home . ''
`` The cotton have come up for the sheet , '' say Mrs. Blythe .
`` You can help Nan and Di make them up .
And Rilla , do n't you think you could organize a Junior Red Cross among the young girl ?
I think they would like it good and do good work by themselves than if mixed up with the old people . ''
`` But , mother -- I 've never do anything like that . ''
`` We will all have to do a great many thing in the month ahead of u that we have never do before , Rilla . ''
`` Well '' -- Rilla take the plunge -- `` I 'll try , mother -- if you 'll tell me how to begin .
I have be think it all over and I have decide that I must be a brave and heroic and unselfish a I can possibly be . ''
Mrs. Blythe do not smile at Rilla 's italic .
Perhaps she do not feel like smile or perhaps she detect a real grain of serious purpose behind Rilla 's romantic pose .
So here be Rilla hem sheet and organize a Junior Red Cross in her thought a she hem ; moreover , she be enjoy it -- the organizing that be , not the hemming .
It be interest and Rilla discover a certain aptitude in herself for it that surprise her .
Who would be president ?
Not she .
The old girl would not like that .
Irene Howard ?
No , somehow Irene be not quite as popular a she deserve to be .
Marjorie Drew ?
No , Marjorie have n't enough backbone .
She be too prone to agree with the last speaker .
Betty Mead -- calm , capable , tactful Betty -- the very one !
And Una Meredith for treasurer ; and , if they be very insistent , they might make her , Rilla , secretary .
As for the various committee , they must be choose after the Juniors be organize , but Rilla know just who should be put on which .
They would meet around -- and there must be no eats -- Rilla know she would have a pitched battle with Olive Kirk over that -- and everything should be strictly business-like and constitutional .
Her minute book should be cover in white with a Red Cross on the cover -- and would n't it be nice to have some kind of uniform which they could all wear at the concert they would have to get up to raise money -- something simple but smart ?
`` You have baste the top hem of that sheet on one side and the bottom hem on the other , '' say Di .
Rilla pick out her stitch and reflect that she hat sew .
Running the Junior Reds would be much more interesting .
Mrs. Blythe be say upstairs , `` Susan , do you remember that first day Jem lift up his little arm to me and call me ` mo'er ' -- the very first word he ever try to say ? ''
`` You could not mention anything about that bless baby that I do not and will not remember till my die day , '' say Susan drearily .
`` Susan , I keep think today of once when he cry for me in the night .
He be just a few month old .
Gilbert do n't want me to go to him -- he say the child be well and warm and that it would be foster bad habit in him .
But I go -- and take him up -- I can feel that tight clinging of his little arm round my neck yet .
Susan , if I have n't go that night , twenty-one year ago , and take my baby up when he cry for me I could n't face tomorrow morning . ''
`` I do not know how we be go to face it anyhow , Mrs. Dr. dear .
But do not tell me that it will be the final farewell .
He will be back on leave before he go overseas , will he not ? ''
`` We hope so but we be not very sure .
I be make up my mind that he will not , so that there will be no disappointment to bear .
Susan , I be determine that I will send my boy off tomorrow with a smile .
He shall not carry away with him the remembrance of a weak mother who have not the courage to send when he have the courage to go .
I hope none of u will cry . ''
`` I be not go to cry , Mrs. Dr. dear , and that you may tie to , but whether I shall manage to smile or not will be a Providence ordains and a the pit of my stomach feel .
Have you room there for this fruit-cake ?
And the shortbread ?
And the mince-pie ?
That bless boy shall not starve , whether they have anything to eat in that Quebec place or not .
Everything seem to be change all at once , do it not ?
Even the old cat at the manse have pass away .
He breathe his last at a quarter to ten last night and Bruce be quite heart-broken , they tell me . ''
`` It 's time that pussy go where good cat go .
He must be at least fifteen year old .
He have seem so lonely since Aunt Martha die . ''
`` I should not have lament , Mrs. Dr. dear , if that Hyde-beast have die also .
He have be Mr. Hyde most of the time since Jem come home in khaki , and that have a meaning I will maintain .
I do not know what Monday will do when Jem be go .
The creature just go about with a human look in his eye that take all the good out of me when I see it .
Ellen West use to be always rail at the Kaiser and we think her crazy , but now I see that there be a method in her madness .
This tray be pack , Mrs. Dr. dear , and I will go down and put in my best lick prepare supper .
I wish I know when I would cook another supper for Jem but such thing be hide from our eye . ''
Jem Blythe and Jerry Meredith leave next morning .
It be a dull day , threaten rain , and the cloud lay in heavy grey roll over the sky ; but almost everybody in the Glen and Four Winds and Harbour Head and Upper Glen and over-harbour -- except Whiskers-on-the-moon -- be there to see them off .
The Blythe family and the Meredith family be all smiling .
Even Susan , a Providence do ordain , wear a smile , though the effect be somewhat more painful than tear would have be .
Faith and Nan be very pale and very gallant .
Rilla think she would get on very well if something in her throat do n't choke her , and if her lip do n't take such spell of trembling .
Dog Monday be there , too .
Jem have try to say good-bye to him at Ingleside but Monday implore so eloquently that Jem relent and let him go to the station .
He keep close to Jem 's leg and watch every movement of his beloved master .
`` I ca n't bear that dog 's eye , '' say Mrs. Meredith .
`` The beast have more sense than most human , '' say Mary Vance .
`` Well , do we any of u ever think we 'd live to see this day ?
I bawl all night to think of Jem and Jerry go like this .
I think they 're plumb derange .
Miller get a maggot in his head about go but I soon talk him out of it -- likewise his aunt say a few touching thing .
For once in our life Kitty Alec and I agree .
It 's a miracle that be n't likely to happen again .
There 's Ken , Rilla . ''
Rilla know Kenneth be there .
She have be acutely conscious of it from the moment he have spring from Leo West 's buggy .
Now he come up to her smiling .
`` Doing the brave-smiling-sister-stunt , I see .
What a crowd for the Glen to muster !
Well , I 'm off home in a few day myself . ''
A queer little wind of desolation that even Jem 's go have not cause blew over Rilla 's spirit .
`` Why ?
You have another month of vacation . ''
`` Yes -- but I ca n't hang around Four Winds and enjoy myself when the world 's on fire like this .
It 's me for little old Toronto where I 'll find some way of help in spite of this bally ankle .
I 'm not look at Jem and Jerry -- make me too sick with envy .
You girl be great -- no cry , no grim endurance .
The boy 'll go off with a good taste in their mouth .
I hope Persis and mother will be a game when my turn come . ''
`` Oh , Kenneth -- the war will be over before your turn cometh . ''
There !
She have lisp again .
Another great moment of life spoil !
Well , it be her fate .
And anyhow , nothing matter .
Kenneth be off already -- he be talk to Ethel Reese , who be dress , at seven in the morning , in the gown she have wear to the dance , and be cry .
What on earth have Ethel to cry about ?
None of the Reeses be in khaki .
Rilla want to cry , too -- but she would not .
What be that horrid old Mrs. Drew say to mother , in that melancholy whine of hers ?
`` I do n't know how you can stand this , Mrs. Blythe .
I could n't if it be my pore boy . ''
And mother -- oh , mother could always be depend on !
How her grey eye flash in her pale face .
`` It might have be bad , Mrs. Drew .
I might have have to urge him to go . ''
Mrs. Drew do not understand but Rilla do .
She fling up her head .
Her brother do not have to be urge to go .
Rilla find herself stand alone and listen to disconnect scrap of talk a people walk up and down past her .
`` I tell Mark to wait and see if they ask for a second lot of men .
If they do I 'd let him go -- but they wo n't , '' say Mrs. Palmer Burr .
`` I think I 'll have it make with a crush girdle of velvet , '' say Bessie Clow .
`` I 'm frightened to look at my husband 's face for fear I 'll see in it that he want to go too , '' say a little over-harbour bride .
`` I 'm scared stiff , '' say whimsical Mrs. Jim Howard .
`` I 'm scared Jim will enlist -- and I 'm scared he wo n't . ''
`` The war will be over by Christmas , '' say Joe Vickers .
`` Let them European nation fight it out between them , '' say Abner Reese .
`` When he be a boy I give him many a good trouncing , '' shout Norman Douglas , who seem to be refer to some one high in military circle in Charlottetown .
`` Yes , sir , I wallop him well , big gun a he be now . ''
`` The existence of the British Empire be at stake , '' say the Methodist minister .
`` There 's certainly something about uniform , '' sigh Irene Howard .
`` It 's a commercial war when all be say and do and not worth one drop of good Canadian blood , '' say a stranger from the shore hotel .
`` The Blythe family be take it easy , '' say Kate Drew .
`` Them young fool be just go for adventure , '' growl Nathan Crawford .
`` I have absolute confidence in Kitchener , '' say the over-harbour doctor .
In these ten minute Rilla pass through a dizzying succession of anger , laughter , contempt , depression and inspiration .
Oh , people be -- funny !
How little they understand .
`` Taking it easy , '' indeed -- when even Susan have n't sleep a wink all night !
Kate Drew always be a minx .
Rilla felt a if she be in some fantastic nightmare .
Were these the people who , three week ago , be talk of crop and price and local gossip ?
There -- the train be come -- mother be hold Jem 's hand -- Dog Monday be lick it -- everybody be say good-bye -- the train be in !
Jem kiss Faith before everybody -- old Mrs. Drew whoop hysterically -- the men , lead by Kenneth , cheer -- Rilla felt Jem seize her hand -- `` Good-bye , Spider '' -- somebody kiss her cheek -- she believe it be Jerry but never be sure -- they be off -- the train be pull out -- Jem and Jerry be wave to everybody -- everybody be wave back -- mother and Nan be smile still , but a if they have just forget to take the smile off -- Monday be howl dismally and be forcibly restrain by the Methodist minister from tear after the train -- Susan be wave her best bonnet and hurrah like a man -- have she go crazy ?
-- the train round a curve .
They have go .
Rilla come to herself with a gasp .
There be a sudden quiet .
Nothing to do now but to go home -- and wait .
The doctor and Mrs. Blythe walk off together -- so do Nan and Faith -- so do John Meredith and Rosemary .
Walter and Una and Shirley and Di and Carl and Rilla go in a group .
Susan have put her bonnet back on her head , hindside foremost , and stalk grimly off alone .
Nobody miss Dog Monday at first .
When they do Shirley go back for him .
He find Dog Monday curl up in one of the shipping-sheds near the station and try to coax him home .
Dog Monday would not move .
He wag his tail to show he have no hard feeling but no blandishment avail to budge him .
`` Guess Monday have make up his mind to wait there till Jem come back , '' say Shirley , try to laugh a he rejoin the rest .
This be exactly what Dog Monday have do .
His dear master have go -- he , Monday , have be deliberately and of malice aforethought prevent from go with him by a demon disguise in the garb of a Methodist minister .
Wherefore , he , Monday , would wait there until the smoking , snort monster , which have carry his hero off , carry him back .
Ay , wait there , little faithful dog with the soft , wistful , puzzled eye .
But it will be many a long bitter day before your boyish comrade come back to you .
The doctor be away on a case that night and Susan stalk into Mrs. Blythe 's room on her way to bed to see if her adored Mrs. Dr. dear be `` comfortable and compose . ''
She pause solemnly at the foot of the bed and solemnly declare , `` Mrs. Dr. dear , I have make up my mind to be a heroine . ''
`` Mrs. Dr. dear '' find herself violently incline to laugh -- which be manifestly unfair , since she have not laugh when Rilla have announce a similar heroic determination .
To be sure , Rilla be a slim , white-robed thing , with a flower-like face and starry young eye aglow with feeling ; whereas Susan be array in a grey flannel nightgown of strait simplicity , and have a strip of red woollen worst tied around her grey hair a a charm against neuralgia .
But that should not make any vital difference .
Was it not the spirit that count ?
Yet Mrs. Blythe be hard put to it not to laugh .
`` I be not , '' proceed Susan firmly , `` go to lament or whine or question the wisdom of the Almighty any more a I have be do lately .
Whining and shirk and blame Providence do not get u anywhere .
We have just get to grapple with whatever we have to do whether it be weed the onion patch , or run the Government .
I shall grapple .
Those bless boy have go to war ; and we woman , Mrs. Dr. dear , must tarry by the stuff and keep a stiff upper lip . ''
CHAPTER VII A WAR-BABY AND A SOUP TUREEN `` Liege and Namur -- and now Brussels ! ''
The doctor shake his head .
`` I do n't like it -- I do n't like it . ''
`` Do not you lose heart , Dr. dear ; they be just defend by foreigner , '' say Susan superbly .
`` Wait you till the Germans come against the British ; there will be a very different story to tell and that you may tie to . ''
The doctor shake his head again , but a little less gravely ; perhaps they all share subconsciously in Susan 's belief that `` the thin grey line '' be unbreakable , even by the victorious rush of Germany 's ready million .
At any rate , when the terrible day come -- the first of many terrible day -- with the news that the British army be drive back they star at each other in blank dismay .
`` It -- it ca n't be true , '' gasp Nan , take a brief refuge in temporary incredulity .
`` I felt that there be to be bad news today , '' say Susan , `` for that cat-creature turn into Mr. Hyde this morning without rhyme or reason for it , and that be no good omen . '' '' '
A broken , a beaten , but not a demoralize , army , ' '' mutter the doctor , from a London dispatch .
`` Can it be England 's army of which such a thing be say ? ''
`` It will be a long time now before the war be end , '' say Mrs. Blythe despairingly .
Susan 's faith , which have for a moment be temporarily submerge , now reappear triumphantly .
`` Remember , Mrs. Dr. dear , that the British army be not the British navy .
Never forget that .
And the Russians be on their way , too , though Russians be people I do not know much about and consequently will not tie to . ''
`` The Russians will not be in time to save Paris , '' say Walter gloomily .
`` Paris be the heart of France -- and the road to it be open .
Oh , I wish '' -- he stop abruptly and go out .
After a paralysed day the Ingleside folk find it be possible to `` carry on '' even in the face of ever-darkening bad news .
Susan work fiercely in her kitchen , the doctor go out on his round of visit , Nan and Di return to their Red Cross activity ; Mrs. Blythe go to Charlottetown to attend a Red Cross Convention ; Rilla after relieve her feeling by a stormy fit of tear in Rainbow Valley and an outburst in her diary , remember that she have elect to be brave and heroic .
And , she think , it really be heroic to volunteer to drive about the Glen and Four Winds one day , collect promise Red Cross supply with Abner Crawford 's old grey horse .
One of the Ingleside horse be lame and the doctor need the other , so there be nothing for it but the Crawford nag , a placid , unhasting , thick-skinned creature with an amiable habit of stop every few yard to kick a fly off one leg with the foot of the other .
Rilla felt that this , couple with the fact that the Germans be only fifty mile from Paris , be hardly to be endure .
But she start off gallantly on an errand fraught with amazing result .
Late in the afternoon she find herself , with a buggy full of parcel , at the entrance to a grassy , deep-rutted lane lead to the harbour shore , wonder whether it be worth while to call down at the Anderson house .
The Andersons be desperately poor and it be not likely Mrs. Anderson have anything to give .
On the other hand , her husband , who be an Englishman by birth and who have be work in Kingsport when the war break out , have promptly sail for England to enlist there , without , it may be say , come home or send much hard cash to represent him .
So possibly Mrs. Anderson might feel hurt if she be overlook .
Rilla decide to call .
There be time afterwards when she wish she have n't , but in the long run she be very thankful that she do .
The Anderson house be a small and tumbledown affair , crouch in a grove of battered spruce near the shore a if rather ashamed of itself and anxious to hide .
Rilla tie her grey nag to the rickety fence and go to the door .
It be open ; and the sight she saw bereft her temporarily of the power of speech or motion .
Through the open door of the small bedroom opposite her , Rilla saw Mrs. Anderson lie on the untidy bed ; and Mrs. Anderson be dead .
There be no doubt of that ; neither be there any doubt that the big , frowzy , red-headed , red-faced , over-fat woman sit near the door-way , smoke a pipe quite comfortably , be very much alive .
She rock idly back and forth amid her surroundings of squalid disorder , and pay no attention whatever to the piercing wail proceed from a cradle in the middle of the room .
Rilla know the woman by sight and reputation .
Her name be Mrs. Conover ; she live down at the fishing village ; she be a great-aunt of Mrs. Anderson ; and she drink as well a smoke .
Rilla 's first impulse be to turn and flee .
But that would never do .
Perhaps this woman , repulsive a she be , need help -- though she certainly do not look a if she be worry over the lack of it .
`` Come in , '' say Mrs. Conover , remove her pipe and staring at Rilla with her little , rat-like eye .
`` Is -- be Mrs. Anderson really dead ? ''
ask Rilla timidly , a she step over the sill .
`` Dead a a door nail , '' respond Mrs. Conover cheerfully .
`` Kicked the bucket half an hour ago .
I 've send Jen Conover to ` phone for the undertaker and get some help up from the shore .
You 're the doctor 's miss , ai n't ye ?
Have a cheer ? ''
Rilla do not see any chair which be not clutter with something .
She remain stand .
`` Was n't it -- very sudden ? ''
`` Well , she 's be a-pining ever since that worthless Jim light out for England -- which I say it 's a pity a he ever leave .
It 's my belief she be take for death when she hear the news .
That young un there be bear a fortnight ago and since then she 's just go down and today she up and die , without a soul expect it . ''
`` Is there anything I can do to -- to help ? ''
hesitate Rilla .
`` Bless yez , no -- unless ye 've a knack with kid .
I have n't .
That young un there never let up squall , day or night .
I 've just get that I take no notice of it . ''
Rilla tiptoe gingerly over to the cradle and more gingerly still pull down the dirty blanket .
She have no intention of touch the baby -- she have no `` knack with kid '' either .
She saw an ugly midget with a red , distort little face , roll up in a piece of dingy old flannel .
She have never see an ugly baby .
Yet a feeling of pity for the desolate , orphan mite which have `` come out of the everywhere '' into such a dubious `` here '' , take sudden possession of her .
`` What be go to become of the baby ? ''
she ask .
`` Lord know , '' say Mrs. Conover candidly .
`` Min worry awful over that before she die .
She keep on a-saying ` Oh , what will become of my pore baby ' till it really get on my nerve .
I ai n't a-going to trouble myself with it , I can tell yez .
I brung up a boy that my sister leave and he skin out as soon a he get to be some good and wo n't give me a mite o ' help in my old age , ungrateful whelp a he be .
I tell Min it 'd have to be send to an orphan asylum till we 'd see if Jim ever come back to look after it .
Would yez believe it , she do n't relish the idee .
But that 's the long and short of it . ''
`` But who will look after it until it can be take to the asylum ? ''
persist Rilla .
Somehow the baby 's fate worry her .
`` S'pose I 'll have to , '' grunt Mrs. Conover .
She put away her pipe and take an unblushing swig from a black bottle she produce from a shelf near her .
`` It 's my opinion the kid wo n't live long .
It 's sickly .
Min never have no gimp and I guess it hai n't either .
Likely it wo n't trouble any one long and good riddance , sez I. '' Rilla draw the blanket down a little farther .
`` Why , the baby be n't dress ! ''
she exclaim , in a shocked tone .
`` Who be to dress him I 'd like to know , '' demand Mrs. Conover truculently .
`` I have n't time -- take me all the time there be look after Min .
` Sides , a I tell yez , I do n't know nithing about kid .
Old Mrs. Billy Crawford , she be here when it be bear and she wash it and roll it up in that flannel , and Jen she 's tend it a bit since .
The critter be warm enough .
This weather would melt a brass monkey . ''
Rilla be silent , look down at the cry baby .
She have never encounter any of the tragedy of life before and this one smote her to the core of her heart .
The thought of the poor mother go down into the valley of the shadow alone , fret about her baby , with no one near but this abominable old woman , hurt her terribly .
If she have only come a little sooner !
Yet what could she have do -- what could she do now ?
She do n't know , but she must do something .
She hat baby -- but she simply could not go away and leave that poor little creature with Mrs. Conover -- who be apply herself again to her black bottle and would probably be helplessly drunk before anybody come .
`` I ca n't stay , '' think Rilla .
`` Mr. Crawford say I must be home by supper-time because he want the pony this evening himself .
Oh , what can I do ? ''
She make a sudden , desperate , impulsive resolution .
`` I 'll take the baby home with me , '' she say .
`` Can I ? ''
`` Sure , if yez want to , '' say Mrs. Conover amiably .
`` I hai n't any objection .
Take it and welcome . ''
`` I -- I ca n't carry it , '' say Rilla .
`` I have to drive the horse and I 'd be afraid I 'd drop it .
Is there a -- a basket anywhere that I could put it in ? ''
`` Not a I know on .
There ai n't much here of anything , I kin tell yez .
Min be pore and as shiftless a Jim .
Ef ye open that drawer over there yez 'll find a few baby clo'es .
Best take them along . ''
Rilla get the clothes -- the cheap , sleazy garment the poor mother have make ready a best she could .
But this do not solve the pressing problem of the baby 's transportation .
Rilla look helplessly round .
Oh , for mother -- or Susan !
Her eye fell on an enormous blue soup tureen at the back of the dresser .
`` May I have this to -- to lay him in ? ''
she ask .
`` Well , ` tai n't mine but I guess yez kin take it .
Do n't smash it if yez can help -- Jim might make a fuss about it if he come back alive -- which he sure will , seein ' he ai n't any good .
He brung that old tureen out from England with him -- say it 'd always be in the family .
Him and Min never use it -- never have enough soup to put in it -- but Jim think the world of it .
He be mighty perticuler about some thing but do n't worry him none that there be n't much in the way o ' eatable to put in the dish . ''
For the first time in her life Rilla Blythe touch a baby -- lift it -- roll it in a blanket , tremble with nervousness l she drop it or -- or -- break it .
Then she put it in the soup tureen .
`` Is there any fear of it smother ? ''
she ask anxiously .
`` Not much odds if it do , '' say Mrs. Conover .
Horrified Rilla loosen the blanket round the baby 's face a little .
The mite have stop cry and be blink up at her .
It have big dark eye in it ugly little face .
`` Better not let the wind blow on it , '' admonish Mrs. Conover .
`` Take it breath if it do . ''
Rilla wrap the tattered little quilt around the soup tureen .
`` Will you hand this to me after I get into the buggy , please ? ''
`` Sure I will , '' say Mrs. Conover , get up with a grunt .
And so it be that Rilla Blythe , who have drive to the Anderson house a self-confessed hater of baby , drive away from it carry one in a soup tureen on her lap !
Rilla think she would never get to Ingleside .
In the soup tureen there be an uncanny silence .
In one way she be thankful the baby do not cry but she wish it would give an occasional squeak to prove that it be alive .
Suppose it be smother !
Rilla dare not unwrap it to see , lest the wind , which be now blow a hurricane , should `` take it breath , '' whatever dreadful thing that might be .
She be a thankful girl when at last she reach harbour at Ingleside .
Rilla carry the soup tureen to the kitchen , and set it on the table under Susan 's eye .
Susan look into the tureen and for once in her life be so completely floor that she have not a word to say .
`` What in the world be this ? ''
ask the doctor , come in .
Rilla pour out her story .
`` I just have to bring it , father , '' she conclude .
`` I could n't leave it there . ''
`` What be you go to do with it ? ''
ask the doctor coolly .
Rilla have n't exactly expect this kind of question .
`` We -- we can keep it here for awhile -- ca n't we -- until something can be arrange ? ''
she stammer confusedly .
Dr. Blythe walk up and down the kitchen for a moment or two while the baby star at the white wall of the soup tureen and Susan show sign of return animation .
Presently the doctor confront Rilla .
`` A young baby mean a great deal of additional work and trouble in a household , Rilla .
Nan and Di be leave for Redmond next week and neither your mother nor Susan be able to assume so much extra care under present condition .
If you want to keep that baby here you must attend to it yourself . ''
`` Me ! ''
Rilla be dismay into be ungrammatical .
`` Why -- father -- I -- I could n't ! ''
`` Younger girl than you have have to look after baby .
My advice and Susan 's be at your disposal .
If you can not , then the baby must go back to Meg Conover .
Its lease of life will be short if it do for it be evident that it be a delicate child and require particular care .
I doubt if it would survive even if send to an orphan ' home .
But I can not have your mother and Susan over-taxed . ''
The doctor walk out of the kitchen , look very stern and immovable .
In his heart he know quite well that the small inhabitant of the big soup tureen would remain at Ingleside , but he mean to see if Rilla could not be induce to rise to the occasion .
Rilla sit look blankly at the baby .
It be absurd to think she could take care of it .
But -- that poor little , frail , dead mother who have worry about it -- that dreadful old Meg Conover .
`` Susan , what must be do for a baby ? ''
she ask dolefully .
`` You must keep it warm and dry and wash it every day , and be sure the water be neither too hot nor too cold , and fee it every two hour .
If it have colic , you put hot thing on it stomach , '' say Susan , rather feebly and flatly for her .
The baby begin to cry again .
`` It must be hungry -- it have to be feed anyhow , '' say Rilla desperately .
`` Tell me what to get for it , Susan , and I 'll get it . ''
Under Susan 's direction a ration of milk and water be prepare , and a bottle obtain from the doctor 's office .
Then Rilla lift the baby out of the soup tureen and feed it .
She bring down the old basket of her own infancy from the attic and lay the now sleep baby in it .
She put the soup tureen away in the pantry .
Then she sit down to think thing over .
The result of her thinking thing over be that she go to Susan when the baby wake .
`` I 'm go to see what I can do , Susan .
I ca n't let that poor little thing go back to Mrs. Conover .
Tell me how to wash and dress it . ''
Under Susan 's supervision Rilla bath the baby .
Susan dare not help , other than by suggestion , for the doctor be in the living-room and might pop in at any moment .
Susan have learn by experience that when Dr. Blythe put his foot down and say a thing must be , that thing be .
Rilla set her teeth and go ahead .
In the name of goodness , how many wrinkle and kink do a baby have ?
Why , there be n't enough of it to take hold of .
Oh , suppose she let it slip into the water -- it be so wobbly !
If it would only stop howl like that !
How could such a tiny morsel make such an enormous noise .
Its shriek could be hear over Ingleside from cellar to attic .
`` Am I really hurt it much , Susan , do you suppose ? ''
she ask piteously .
`` No , dearie .
Most new baby hate like poison to be wash .
You be real knacky for a beginner .
Keep your hand under it back , whatever you do , and keep cool . ''
Keep cool !
Rilla be ooze perspiration at every pore .
When the baby be dry and dress and temporarily quiet with another bottle she be as limp a a rag .
`` What must I do with it tonight , Susan ? ''
A baby by day be dreadful enough ; a baby by night be unthinkable .
`` Set the basket on a chair by your bed and keep it cover .
You will have to fee it once or twice in the night , so you would better take the oil heater upstairs .
If you can not manage it call me and I will go , doctor or no doctor . ''
`` But , Susan , if it cry ? ''
The baby , however , do not cry .
It be surprisingly good -- perhaps because it poor little stomach be fill with proper food .
It sleep most of the night but Rilla do not .
She be afraid to go to sleep for fear something would happen to the baby .
She prepare it three o'clock ration with a grim determination that she would not call Susan .
Oh , be she dream ?
Was it really she , Rilla Blythe , who have get into this absurd predicament ?
She do not care if the Germans be near Paris -- she do not care if they be in Paris -- if only the baby would n't cry or choke or smother or have convulsion .
Babies do have convulsion , do n't they ?
Oh , why have she forget to ask Susan what she must do if the baby have convulsion ?
She reflect rather bitterly that father be very considerate of mother 's and Susan 's health , but what about hers ?
Did he think she could continue to exist if she never get any sleep ?
But she be not go to back down now -- not she .
She would look after this detestable little animal if it kill her .
She would get a book on baby hygiene and be behold to nobody .
She would never go to father for advice -- she would n't bother mother -- and she would only condescend to Susan in dire extremity .
They would all see !
Thus it come about that Mrs. Blythe , when she return home two night later and ask Susan where Rilla be , be electrify by Susan 's composed reply .
`` She 's upstairs , Mrs. Dr. dear , put her baby to bed . ''
CHAPTER VIII RILLA DECIDES Families and individual alike soon become use to new condition and accept them unquestioningly .
By the time a week have elapse it seem a it the Anderson baby have always be at Ingleside .
After the first three distract night Rilla begin to sleep again , wake automatically to attend to her charge on schedule time .
She bath and fed and dress it as skilfully a if she have be do it all her life .
She like neither her job nor the baby any the good ; she still handle it as gingerly a if it be some kind of a small lizard , and a breakable lizard at that ; but she do her work thoroughly and there be not a cleaner , better-cared-for infant in Glen St. Mary .
She even take to weigh the creature every day and jot the result down in her diary ; but sometimes she ask herself pathetically why unkind destiny have ever lead her down the Anderson lane on that fatal day .
Shirley , Nan , and Di do not tease her as much a she have expect .
They all seem rather stun by the mere fact of Rilla adopt a war-baby ; perhaps , too , the doctor have issue instruction .
Walter , of course , never have tease her over anything ; one day he tell her she be a brick .
`` It take more courage for you to tackle that five pound of new infant , Rilla-my-Rilla , than it would be for Jem to face a mile of Germans .
I wish I have half your pluck , '' he say ruefully .
Rilla be very proud of Walter 's approval ; nevertheless , she write gloomily in her diary that night : -- `` I wish I could like the baby a little bit .
It would make thing easy .
But I do n't .
I 've hear people say that when you take care of a baby you get fond of it -- but you do n't -- I do n't , anyway .
And it 's a nuisance -- it interfere with everything .
It just tie me down -- and now of all time when I 'm try to get the Junior Reds start .
And I could n't go to Alice Clow 's party last night and I be just die to .
Of course father be n't really unreasonable and I can always get an hour or two off in the evening when it 's necessary ; but I know he would n't stand for my be out half the night and leave Susan or mother to see to the baby .
I suppose it be just as well , because the thing do take colic -- or something -- about one o'clock .
It do n't kick or stiffen out , so I know that , accord to Morgan , it be n't cry for temper ; and it be n't hungry and no pin be stick in it .
It scream till it be black in the face ; I get up and heated water and put the hot-water bottle on it stomach , and it howl bad than ever and draw up it poor wee thin leg .
I be afraid I have burn it but I do n't believe I do .
Then I walk the floor with it although ` Morgan on Infants ' say that should never be do .
I walk mile , and oh , I be so tired and discouraged and mad -- yes , I be .
I could have shake the creature if it have be big enough to shake , but it be n't .
Father be out on a case , and mother have have a headache and Susan be squiffy because when she and Morgan differ I insist upon go by what Morgan say , so I be determine I would n't call her unless I have to .
`` Finally , Miss Oliver come in .
She have room with Nan now , not me , all because of the baby , and I be broken-hearted about it .
I miss our long talk after we go to bed , so much .
It be the only time I ever have her to myself .
I hat to think the baby 's yell have waken her up , for she have so much to bear now .
Mr. Grant be at Valcartier , too , and Miss Oliver feel it dreadfully , though she be splendid about it .
She think he will never come back and her eye just break my heart -- they be so tragic .
She say it be n't the baby that wake her -- she have n't be able to sleep because the Germans be so near Paris ; she take the little wretch and lay it flat on it stomach across her knee and thump it back gently a few time , and it stop shriek and go right off to sleep and sleep like a lamb the rest of the night .
I do n't -- I be too wear out .
`` I 'm have a perfectly dreadful time get the Junior Reds start .
I succeed in get Betty Mead a president , and I be secretary , but they put Jen Vickers in a treasurer and I despise her .
She be the sort of girl who call any clever , handsome , or distinguish people she know slightly by their first name -- behind their back .
And she be sly and two-faced .
Una do n't mind , of course .
She be willing to do anything that come to hand and never mind whether she have an office or not .
She be just a perfect angel , while I be only angelic in spot and demonic in other spot .
I wish Walter would take a fancy to her , but he never seem to think about her in that way , although I hear him say once she be like a tea rise .
She be too .
And she get impose upon , just because she be so sweet and willing ; but I do n't allow people to impose on Rilla Blythe and ` that you may tie to , ' a Susan say .
`` Just a I expect , Olive be determine we should have lunch serve at our meeting .
We have a battle royal over it .
The majority be against eats and now the minority be sulk .
Irene Howard be on the eats side and she have be very cool to me ever since and it make me feel miserable .
I wonder if mother and Mrs. Elliott have problem in the Senior Society too .
I suppose they have , but they just go on calmly in spite of everything .
I go on -- but not calmly -- I rage and cry -- but I do it all in private and blow off steam in this diary ; and when it 's over I vow I 'll show them .
I never sulk .
I detest people who sulk .
Anyhow , we 've get the society start and we 're to meet once a week , and we 're all go to learn to knit .
`` Shirley and I go down to the station again to try to induce Dog Monday to come home but we fail .
All the family have try and fail .
Three day after Jem have go Walter go down and bring Monday home by main force in the buggy and shut him up for three day .
Then Monday go on a hunger strike and howl like a Banshee night and day .
We have to let him out or he would have starve to death .
`` So we have decide to let him alone and father have arrange with the butcher near the station to fee him with bone and scrap .
Besides , one of u go down nearly every day to take him something .
He just lie curl up in the shipping-shed , and every time a train come in he will rush over to the platform , wag his tail expectantly , and tear around to every one who come off the train .
And then , when the train go and he realize that Jem have not come , he creep dejectedly back to his shed , with his disappointed eye , and lie down patiently to wait for the next train .
Mr. Gray , the station master , say there be time when he can hardly help cry from sheer sympathy .
One day some boy throw stone at Monday and old Johnny Mead , who never be know to take notice of anything before , snatch up a meat axe in the butcher 's shop and chase them through the village .
Nobody have molest Monday since .
`` Kenneth Ford have go back to Toronto .
He come up two evening ago to say good-bye .
I be n't home -- some clothes have to be make for the baby and Mrs. Meredith offer to help me , so I be over at the manse , and I do n't see Kenneth .
Not that it matter ; he tell Nan to say good-bye to Spider for him and tell me not to forget him wholly in my absorb maternal duty .
If he could leave such a frivolous , insulting message a that for me it show plainly that our beautiful hour on the sandshore mean nothing to him and I be not go to think about him or it again .
`` Fred Arnold be at the manse and walk home with me .
He be the new Methodist minister 's son and very nice and clever , and would be quite handsome if it be not for his nose .
It be a really dreadful nose .
When he talk of commonplace thing it do not matter so much , but when he talk of poetry and ideals the contrast between his nose and his conversation be too much for me and I want to shriek with laughter .
It be really not fair , because everything he say be perfectly charm and if somebody like Kenneth have say it I would have be enrapture .
When I listen to him with my eye cast down I be quite fascinate ; but as soon a I look up and saw his nose the spell be break .
He want to enlist , too , but ca n't because he be only seventeen .
Mrs. Elliott meet u a we be walk through the village and could not have look more horrified if she catch me walk with the Kaiser himself .
Mrs. Elliott detest the Methodists and all their work .
Father say it be an obsession with her . ''
About 1st September there be an exodus from Ingleside and the manse .
Faith , Nan , Di and Walter leave for Redmond ; Carl betook himself to his Harbour Head school and Shirley be off to Queen 's .
Rilla be leave alone at Ingleside and would have be very lonely if she have have time to be .
She miss Walter keenly ; since their talk in Rainbow Valley they have grow very near together and Rilla discuss problem with Walter which she never mention to others .
But she be so busy with the Junior Reds and her baby that there be rarely a spare minute for loneliness ; sometimes , after she go to bed , she cry a little in her pillow over Walter 's absence and Jem at Valcartier and Kenneth 's unromantic farewell message , but she be generally asleep before the tear get fairly start .
`` Shall I make arrangement to have the baby send to Hopetown ? ''
the doctor ask one day two week after the baby 's arrival at Ingleside .
For a moment Rilla be tempt to say `` Yes . ''
The baby could be send to Hopetown -- it would be decently look after -- she could have her free day and untrammelled night back again .
But -- but -- that poor young mother who have n't want it to go to the asylum !
Rilla could n't get that out of her thought .
And that very morning she discover that the baby have gain eight ounce since it come to Ingleside .
Rilla have felt such a thrill of pride over this .
`` You -- you say it might n't live if it go to Hopetown , '' she say .
`` It might n't .
Somehow , institutional care , no matter how good it may be , do n't always succeed with delicate baby .
But you know what it mean if you want it keep here , Rilla . ''
`` I 've take care of it for a fortnight -- and it have gain half a pound , '' cry Rilla .
`` I think we 'd better wait until we hear from it father anyhow .
He might n't want to have it send to an orphan asylum , when he be fight the battle of his country . ''
The doctor and Mrs. Blythe exchange amuse , satisfied smile behind Rilla 's back ; and nothing more be say about Hopetown .
Then the smile fade from the doctor 's face ; the Germans be twenty mile from Paris .
Horrible tale be begin to appear in the paper of deed do in martyred Belgium .
Life be very tense at Ingleside for the old people .
`` We eat up the war news , '' Gertrude Oliver tell Mrs. Meredith , try to laugh and fail .
`` We study the map and nip the whole Hun army in a few well-directed strategic move .
But Papa Joffre have n't the benefit of our advice -- and so Paris -- must -- fall . ''
`` Will they reach it -- will not some mighty hand yet intervene ? ''
murmur John Meredith .
`` I teach school like one in a dream , '' continue Gertrude ; `` then I come home and shut myself in my room and walk the floor .
I be wear a path right across Nan 's carpet .
We be so horribly near this war . ''
`` Them German men be at Senlis .
Nothing nor nobody can save Paris now , '' wail Cousin Sophia .
Cousin Sophia have take to read the newspaper and have learn more about the geography of northern France , if not about the pronunciation of French name , in her seventy-first year than she have ever know in her schooldays .
`` I have not such a poor opinion of the Almighty , or of Kitchener , '' say Susan stubbornly .
`` I see there be a Bernstoff man in the States who say that the war be over and Germany have win -- and they tell me Whiskers-on-the-moon say the same thing and be quite pleased about it , but I could tell them both that it be chancy work counting chicken even the day before they be hatch , and bear have be know to live long after their skin be sell . ''
`` Why ai n't the British navy do more ? ''
persist Cousin Sophia .
`` Even the British navy can not sail on dry land , Sophia Crawford .
I have not give up hope , and I shall not , Tomascow and Mobbage and all such barbarous name to the contrary notwithstanding .
Mrs. Dr. dear , can you tell me if R-h-e-i-m-s be Rimes or Reems or Rames or Rems ? ''
`` I believe it 's really more like ` Rhangs , ' Susan . ''
`` Oh , those French name , '' groan Susan .
`` They tell me the Germans have about ruin the church there , '' sigh Cousin Sophia .
`` I always think the Germans be Christians . ''
`` A church be bad enough but their doings in Belgium be far bad , '' say Susan grimly .
`` When I hear the doctor read about them bayonet the baby , Mrs. Dr. dear , I just think , ` Oh , what if it be our little Jem ! '
I be stir the soup when that think come to me and I just felt that if I could have lift that saucepan full of that boil soup and throw it at the Kaiser I would not have live in vain . ''
`` Tomorrow -- tomorrow -- will bring the news that the Germans be in Paris , '' say Gertrude Oliver , through her tense lip .
She have one of those soul that be always tie to the stake , burn in the suffering of the world around them .
Apart from her own personal interest in the war , she be rack by the thought of Paris fall into the ruthless hand of the horde who have burn Louvain and ruin the wonder of Rheims .
But on the morrow and the next morrow come the news of the miracle of the Marne .
Rilla rush madly home from the office wave the Enterprise with it big red headline .
Susan run out with tremble hand to hoist the flag .
The doctor stalk about mutter `` Thank God . ''
Mrs. Blythe cry and laugh and cry again .
`` God just put out His hand and touch them -- ` thus far -- no farther ' , '' say Mr. Meredith that even .
Rilla be sing upstairs a she put the baby to bed .
Paris be save -- the war be over -- Germany have lose -- there would soon be an end now -- Jem and Jerry would be back .
The black cloud have roll by .
`` Do n't you dare have colic this joyful night , '' she tell the baby .
`` If you do I 'll clap you back into your soup tureen and ship you off to Hopetown -- by freight -- on the early train .
You have get beautiful eye -- and you 're not quite a red and wrinkle a you be -- but you have n't a speck of hair -- and your hand be like little claw -- and I do n't like you a bit good than I ever do .
But I hope your poor little white mother know that you 're tuck in a soft basket with a bottle of milk as rich a Morgan allow instead of perish by inch with old Meg Conover .
And I hope she do n't know that I nearly drown you that first morning when Susan be n't there and I let you slip right out of my hand into the water .
Why will you be so slippery ?
No , I do n't like you and I never will but for all that I 'm go to make a decent , upstanding infant of you .
You be go to get as fat a a self-respecting child should be , for one thing .
I be not go to have people say ` what a puny little thing that baby of Rilla Blythe 's be ' a old Mrs. Drew say at the senior Red Cross yesterday .
If I ca n't love you I mean to be proud of you at least . ''
CHAPTER IX DOC HAS A MISADVENTURE `` The war will not be over before next spring now , '' say Dr. Blythe , when it become apparent that the long battle of the Aisne have result in a stalemate .
Rilla be murmur `` knit four , purl one '' under her breath , and rock the baby 's cradle with one foot .
Morgan disapprove of cradle for baby but Susan do not , and it be worth while to make some slight sacrifice of principle to keep Susan in good humour .
She lay down her knitting for a moment and say , `` Oh , how can we bear it so long ? ''
-- then pick up her sock and go on .
The Rilla of two month before would have rush off to Rainbow Valley and cry .
Miss Oliver sigh and Mrs. Blythe clasp her hand for a moment .
Then Susan say briskly , `` Well , we must just gird up our loin and pitch in .
Business a usual be England 's motto , they tell me , Mrs. Dr. dear , and I have take it for mine , not think I could easily find a good .
I shall make the same kind of pudding today I always make on Saturday .
It be a good deal of trouble to make , and that be well , for it will employ my thought .
I will remember that Kitchener be at the helm and Joffer be do very well for a Frenchman .
I shall get that box of cake off to little Jem and finish that pair of sock today likewise .
A sock a day be my allowance .
Old Mrs. Albert Mead of Harbour Head manage a pair and a half a day but she have nothing to do but knit .
You know , Mrs. Dr. dear , she have be bed-rid for year and she have be worry terrible because she be no good to anybody and a dreadful expense , and yet could not die and be out of the way .
And now they tell me she be quite chirk up and resign to live because there be something she can do , and she knit for the soldier from daylight to dark .
Even Cousin Sophia have take to knit , Mrs. Dr. dear , and it be a good thing , for she can not think of quite so many doleful speech to make when her hand be busy with her needle instead of be fold on her stomach .
She think we will all be Germans this time next year but I tell her it will take more than a year to make a German out of me .
Do you know that Rick MacAllister have enlist , Mrs. Dr. dear ?
And they say Joe Milgrave would too , only he be afraid that if he do that Whiskers-on-the-moon will not let him have Miranda .
Whiskers say that he will believe the story of German atrocity when he see them , and that it be a good thing that Rangs Cathedral have be destroy because it be a Roman Catholic church .
Now , I be not a Roman Catholic , Mrs. Dr. dear , be bear and breed a good Presbyterian and meaning to live and die one , but I maintain that the Catholics have as good a right to their church a we have to ours and that the Huns have no kind of business to destroy them .
Just think , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' conclude Susan pathetically , `` how we would feel if a German shell knock down the spire of our church here in the glen , and I 'm sure it be every bit a bad to think of Rangs cathedral be hammer to piece . ''
And , meanwhile , everywhere , the lad of the world rich and poor , low and high , white and brown , be follow the Piper 's call .
`` Even Billy Andrews ' boy be go -- and Jane 's only son -- and Diana 's little Jack , '' say Mrs. Blythe .
`` Priscilla 's son have go from Japan and Stella 's from Vancouver -- and both the Rev . Jo 's boy .
Philippa write that her boy ` go right away , not be afflict with her indecision . ' ''
`` Jem say that he think they will be leave very soon now , and that he will not be able to get leave to come so far before they go , a they will have to start at a few hour ' notice , '' say the doctor , pass the letter to his wife .
`` That be not fair , '' say Susan indignantly .
`` Has Sir Sam Hughes no regard for our feeling ?
The idea of whisk that bless boy away to Europe without let u even have a last glimpse of him !
If I be you , doctor dear , I would write to the paper about it . ''
`` Perhaps it be as well , '' say the disappointed mother .
`` I do n't believe I could bear another parting from him -- now that I know the war will not be over as soon a we hop when he leave first .
Oh , if only -- but no , I wo n't say it !
Like Susan and Rilla , '' conclude Mrs. Blythe , achieve a laugh , `` I be determine to be a heroine . ''
`` You 're all good stuff , '' say the doctor , `` I 'm proud of my woman folk .
Even Rilla here , my ` lily of the field , ' be run a Red Cross Society full blast and save a little life for Canada .
That 's a good piece of work .
Rilla , daughter of Anne , what be you go to call your war-baby ? ''
`` I 'm wait to hear from Jim Anderson , '' say Rilla .
`` He may want to name his own child . ''
But a the autumn week go by no word come from Jim Anderson , who have never be hear from since he sail from Halifax , and to whom the fate of wife and child seem a matter of indifference .
Eventually Rilla decide to call the baby James , and Susan opine that Kitchener should be add thereto .
So James Kitchener Anderson become the possessor of a name somewhat more imposing than himself .
The Ingleside family promptly shorten it to Jims , but Susan obstinately call him `` Little Kitchener '' and nothing else .
`` Jims be no name for a Christian child , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' she say disapprovingly .
`` Cousin Sophia say it be too flippant , and for once I consider she utter sense , though I would not please her by openly agree with her .
As for the child , he be begin to look something like a baby , and I must admit that Rilla be wonderful with him , though I would not pamper pride by say so to her face .
Mrs. Dr. dear , I shall never , no never , forget the first sight I have of that infant , lie in that big soup tureen , roll up in dirty flannel .
It be not often that Susan Baker be flabbergast , but flabbergast I be then , and that you may tie to .
For one awful moment I think my mind have give way and that I be see vision .
Then think I , ` No , I never heard of anyone have a vision of a soup tureen , so it must be real at least , ' and I pluck up confidence .
When I hear the doctor tell Rilla that she must take care of the baby I think he be joke , for I do not believe for a minute she would or could do it .
But you see what have happen and it be make a woman of her .
When we have to do a thing , Mrs. Dr. dear , we can do it . ''
Susan add another proof to this conclude dictum of hers one day in October .
The doctor and his wife be away .
Rilla be preside over Jims ' afternoon siesta upstairs , purl four and knit one with ceaseless vim .
Susan be seat on the back veranda , shell bean , and Cousin Sophia be help her .
Peace and tranquility brood over the Glen ; the sky be fleece over with silvery , shin cloud .
Rainbow Valley lay in a soft , autumnal haze of fairy purple .
The maple grove be a burn bush of colour and the hedge of sweet-briar around the kitchen yard be a thing of wonder in it subtle tinting .
It do not seem that strife could be in the world , and Susan 's faithful heart be lull into a brief forgetfulness , although she have lie awake most of the precede night thinking of little Jem far out on the Atlantic , where the great fleet be carry Canada 's first army across the ocean .
Even Cousin Sophia look less melancholy than usual and admit that there be not much fault to be find in the day , although there be no doubt it be a weather-breeder and there would be an awful storm on it heel .
`` Things be too calm to last , '' she say .
As if in confirmation of her assertion , a most unearthly din suddenly arise behind them .
It be quite impossible to describe the confused medley of bang and rattle and muffle shriek and yowl that proceed from the kitchen , accompany by occasional crash .
Susan and Cousin Sophia star at each other in dismay .
`` What upon airth have bruk loose in there ? ''
gasp Cousin Sophia .
`` It must be that Hyde-cat go clean mad at last , '' mutter Susan .
`` I have always expect it . ''
Rilla come fly out of the side door of the living-room .
`` What have happen ? ''
she demand .
`` It be beyond me to say , but that possess beast of yours be evidently at the bottom of it , '' say Susan .
`` Do not go near him , at least .
I will open the door and peep in .
There go some more of the crockery .
I have always say that the devil be in him and that I will tie to . ''
`` It be my opinion that the cat have hydrophobia , '' say Cousin Sophia solemnly .
`` I once heard of a cat that go mad and bite three people -- and they all die a most terrible death , and turn black a ink . ''
Undismayed by this , Susan open the door and look in .
The floor be litter with fragment of broken dish , for it seem that the fatal tragedy have take place on the long dresser where Susan 's array of cook bowl have be marshal in shin state .
Around the kitchen tear a frantic cat , with his head wedge tightly in an old salmon can .
Blindly he career about with shriek and profanity commingle , now bang the can madly against anything he encounter , now try vainly to wrench it off with his paw .
The sight be so funny that Rilla double up with laughter .
Susan look at her reproachfully .
`` I see nothing to laugh at .
That beast have break your ma 's big blue mixing-bowl that she bring from Green Gables when she be marry .
That be no small calamity , in my opinion .
But the thing to consider now be how to get that can off Hyde 's head . ''
`` Do n't you dast go touch it , '' exclaim Cousin Sophia , galvanize into animation .
`` It might be your death .
Shut the kitchen up and send for Albert . ''
`` I be not in the habit of send for Albert during family difficulty , '' say Susan loftily .
`` That beast be in torment , and whatever my opinion of him may be , I can not endure to see him suffer pain .
You keep away , Rilla , for little Kitchener 's sake , and I will see what I can do . ''
Susan stalk undauntedly into the kitchen , seize an old storm coat of the doctor 's and after a wild pursuit and several fruitless dash and pounce , manage to throw it over the cat and can .
Then she proceed to saw the can loose with a can-opener , while Rilla hold the squirm animal , roll in the coat .
Anything like Doc 's shriek while the process be go on be never hear at Ingleside .
Susan be in mortal dread that the Albert Crawfords would hear it and conclude she be torture the creature to death .
Doc be a wrathful and indignant cat when he be free .
Evidently he think the whole thing be a put-up job to bring him low .
He give Susan a baleful glance by way of gratitude and rush out of the kitchen to take sanctuary in the jungle of the sweet-briar hedge , where he sulk for the rest of the day .
Susan sweep up her broken dish grimly .
`` The Huns themselves could n't have work more havoc here , '' she say bitterly .
`` But when people will keep a Satanic animal like that , in spite of all warning , they can not complain when their wedding bowl get break .
Things have come to a pretty pas when an honest woman can not leave her kitchen for a few minute without a fiend of a cat rampage through it with his head in a salmon can . ''
CHAPTER X THE TROUBLES OF RILLA October pass out and the dreary day of November and December drag by .
The world shook with the thunder of contend army ; Antwerp fell -- Turkey declare war -- gallant little Serbia gather herself together and strike a deadly blow at her oppressor ; and in quiet , hill-girdled Glen St. Mary , thousand of mile away , heart beat with hope and fear over the vary dispatch from day to day .
`` A few month ago , '' say Miss Oliver , `` we think and talk in term of Glen St. Mary .
Now , we think and talk in term of military tactic and diplomatic intrigue . ''
There be just one great event every day -- the come of the mail .
Even Susan admit that from the time the mail-courier 's buggy rumble over the little bridge between the station and the village until the paper be bring home and read , she could not work properly .
`` I must take up my knitting then and knit hard till the paper come , Mrs. Dr. dear .
Knitting be something you can do , even when your heart be go like a trip-hammer and the pit of your stomach feel all go and your thought be catawampus .
Then when I see the headline , be they good or be they bad , I calm down and be able to go about my business again .
It be an unfortunate thing that the mail come in just when our dinner rush be on , and I think the Government could arrange thing good .
But the drive on Calais have fail , a I felt perfectly sure it would , and the Kaiser will not eat his Christmas dinner in London this year .
Do you know , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' -- Susan 's voice lower a a token that she be go to impart a very shocking piece of information , -- `` I have be tell on good authority -- or else you may be sure I would not be repeat it when it concern a minster -- that the Rev . Mr. Arnold go to Charlottetown every week and take a Turkish bath for his rheumatism .
The idea of him do that when we be at war with Turkey ?
One of his own deacon have always insist that Mr. Arnold 's theology be not sound and I be begin to believe that there be some reason to fear it .
Well , I must bestir myself this afternoon and get little Jem 's Christmas cake pack up for him .
He will enjoy it , if the bless boy be not drown in mud before that time . ''
Jem be in camp on Salisbury Plain and be write gay , cheery letter home in spite of the mud .
Walter be at Redmond and his letter to Rilla be anything but cheerful .
She never open one without a dread tugging at her heart that it would tell her he have enlist .
His unhappiness make her unhappy .
She want to put her arm round him and comfort him , a she have do that day in Rainbow Valley .
She hat everybody who be responsible for Walter 's unhappiness .
`` He will go yet , '' she murmur miserably to herself one afternoon , a she sit alone in Rainbow Valley , read a letter from him , `` he will go yet -- and if he do I just ca n't bear it . ''
Walter write that some one have send him an envelope contain a white feather .
`` I deserve it , Rilla .
I felt that I ought to put it on and wear it -- proclaim myself to all Redmond the coward I know I be .
The boy of my year be go -- go .
Every day two or three of them join up .
Some day I almost make up my mind to do it -- and then I see myself thrust a bayonet through another man -- some woman 's husband or sweetheart or son -- perhaps the father of little child -- I see myself lie alone tear and mangle , burn with thirst on a cold , wet field , surround by dead and die men -- and I know I never can .
I ca n't face even the thought of it .
How could I face the reality ?
There be time when I wish I have never be bear .
Life have always seem such a beautiful thing to me -- and now it be a hideous thing .
Rilla-my-Rilla , if it be n't for your letter -- your dear , bright , merry , funny , comical , believe letter -- I think I 'd give up .
And Una 's !
Una be really a little brick , be n't she ?
There 's a wonderful fineness and firmness under all that shy , wistful girlishness of her .
She have n't your knack of write laugh-provoking epistle , but there 's something in her letter -- I do n't know what -- that make me feel at least while I 'm read them , that I could even go to the front .
Not that she ever say a word about my go -- or hint that I ought to go -- she be n't that kind .
It 's just the spirit of them -- the personality that be in them .
Well , I ca n't go .
You have a brother and Una have a friend who be a coward . ''
`` Oh , I wish Walter would n't write such thing , '' sigh Rilla .
`` It hurt me .
He be n't a coward -- he be n't -- he be n't ! ''
She look wistfully about her -- at the little woodland valley and the grey , lonely fallows beyond .
How everything remind her of Walter !
The red leaf still cling to the wild sweet-briars that overhang a curve of the brook ; their stem be gemmed with the pearl of the gentle rain that have fall a little while before .
Walter have once write a poem describe them .
The wind be sigh and rustle among the frost brown bracken fern , then lessen sorrowfully away down the brook .
Walter have say once that he love the melancholy of the autumn wind on a November day .
The old Tree Lovers still clasp each other in a faithful embrace , and the White Lady , now a great white-branched tree , stand out beautifully fine , against the grey velvet sky .
Walter have name them long ago ; and last November , when he have walk with her and Miss Oliver in the Valley , he have say , look at the leafless Lady , with a young silver moon hanging over her , `` A white birch be a beautiful Pagan maiden who have never lose the Eden secret of be naked and unashamed . ''
Miss Oliver have say , `` Put that into a poem , Walter , '' and he have do so , and read it to them the next day -- just a short thing with goblin imagination in every line of it .
Oh , how happy they have be then !
Well -- Rilla scramble to her foot -- time be up .
Jims would soon be awake -- his lunch have to be prepare -- his little slip have to be iron -- there be a committee meeting of the Junior Reds that night -- there be her new knit bag to finish -- it would be the handsome bag in the Junior Society -- handsomer even than Irene Howard 's -- she must get home and get to work .
She be busy these day from morning till night .
That little monkey of a Jims take so much time .
But he be grow -- he be certainly grow .
And there be time when Rilla felt sure that it be not merely a pious hope but an absolute fact that he be get decidedly well look .
Sometimes she felt quite proud of him ; and sometimes she yearn to spank him .
But she never kiss him or want to kiss him .
`` The Germans capture Lodz today , '' say Miss Oliver , one December evening , when she , Mrs. Blythe , and Susan be busy sew or knit in the cosy living-room .
`` This war be at least extend my knowledge of geography .
Schoolma'am though I be , three month ago I do n't know there be such a place in the world such a Lodz .
Had I hear it mention I would have know nothing about it and care a little .
I know all about it now -- it size , it standing , it military significance .
Yesterday the news that the Germans have capture it in their second rush to Warsaw make my heart sink into my boot .
I wake up in the night and worry over it .
I do n't wonder baby always cry when they wake up in the night .
Everything press on my soul then and no cloud have a silver lining . ''
`` When I wake up in the night and can not go to sleep again , '' remark Susan , who be knit and read at the same time , `` I pass the moment by torture the Kaiser to death .
Last night I fry him in boil oil and a great comfort it be to me , remember those Belgian baby . ''
`` If the Kaiser be here and have a pain in his shoulder you 'd be the first to run for the liniment bottle to rub him down , '' laugh Miss Oliver .
`` Would I ? ''
cry outraged Susan .
`` Would I , Miss Oliver ?
I would rub him down with coal oil , Miss Oliver -- and leave it to blister .
That be what I would do and that you may tie to .
A pain in his shoulder , indeed !
He will have pain all over him before he be through with what he have start . ''
`` We be tell to love our enemy , Susan , '' say the doctor solemnly .
`` Yes , our enemy , but not King George 's enemy , doctor dear , '' retort Susan crushingly .
She be so well pleased with herself over this flatten out of the doctor completely that she even smile a she polish her glass .
Susan have never give in to glass before , but she have do so at last in order to be able to read the war news -- and not a dispatch got by her .
`` Can you tell me , Miss Oliver , how to pronounce M-l-a-w-a and B-z-u-r-a and P-r-z-e-m-y-s-l ? ''
`` That last be a conundrum which nobody seem to have solve yet , Susan .
And I can make only a guess at the others . ''
`` These foreign name be far from be decent , in my opinion , '' say disgust Susan .
`` I dare say the Austrians and Russians would think Saskatchewan and Musquodoboit about as bad , Susan , '' say Miss Oliver .
`` The Serbians have do wonderfully of late .
They have capture Belgrade . ''
`` And send the Austrian creature pack across the Danube with a flea in their ear , '' say Susan with a relish , a she settle down to examine a map of Eastern Europe , prod each locality with the knit needle to brand it on her memory .
`` Cousin Sophia say awhile ago that Serbia be do for , but I tell her there be still such a thing a an over-ruling Providence , doubt it who might .
It say here that the slaughter be terrible .
For all they be foreigner it be awful to think of so many men be kill , Mrs. Dr. dear -- for they be scarce enough a it be . ''
Rilla be upstairs relieve her over-charged feeling by write in her diary .
`` Things have all ` go catawampus , ' a Susan say , with me this week .
Part of it be my own fault and part of it be n't , and I seem to be equally unhappy over both part .
`` I go to town the other day to buy a new winter hat .
It be the first time nobody insist on come with me to help me select it , and I felt that mother have really give up thinking of me a a child .
And I find the dear hat -- it be simply bewitch .
It be a velvet hat , of the very shade of rich green that be make for me .
It just go with my hair and complexion beautifully , bring out the red-brown shade and what Miss Oliver call my ` creaminess ' so well .
Only once before in my life have I come across that precise shade of green .
When I be twelve I have a little beaver hat of it , and all the girl in school be wild over it .
Well , as soon a I saw this hat I felt that I simply must have it -- and have it I do .
The price be dreadful .
I will not put it down here because I do n't want my descendant to know I be guilty of pay so much for a hat , in war-time , too , when everybody be -- or should be -- try to be economical .
`` When I get home and try on the hat again in my room I be assail by qualm .
Of course , it be very become ; but somehow it seem too elaborate and fussy for church go and our quiet little doings in the Glen -- too conspicuous , in short .
It have n't seem so at the milliner 's but here in my little white room it do .
And that dreadful price tag !
And the starving Belgians !
When mother saw the hat and the tag she just look at me .
Mother be some expert at look .
Father say she look him into love with her year ago in Avonlea school and I can well believe it -- though I have hear a weird tale of her banging him over the head with a slate at the very begin of their acquaintance .
Mother be a limb when she be a little girl , I understand , and even up to the time when Jem go away she be full of ginger .
But let me return to my mutton -- that be to say , my new green velvet hat . ''
` Do you think , Rilla , ' mother say quietly -- far too quietly -- ` that it be right to spend so much for a hat , especially when the need of the world be so great ? ' '' '
I pay for it out of my own allowance , mother , ' I exclaim . ''
` That be not the point .
Your allowance be base on the principle of a reasonable amount for each thing you need .
If you pay too much for one thing you must cut off somewhere else and that be not satisfactory .
But if you think you do right , Rilla , I have no more to say .
I leave it to your conscience . '
`` I wish mother would not leave thing to my conscience !
And anyway , what be I to do ?
I could n't take that hat back -- I have wear it to a concert in town -- I have to keep it !
I be so uncomfortable that I fly into a temper -- a cold , calm , deadly temper . ''
` Mother , ' I say haughtily , ' I be sorry you disapprove of my hat -- ' '' ` Not of the hat exactly , ' say mother , ` though I consider it in doubtful taste for so young a girl -- but of the price you pay for it . '
`` Being interrupt do n't improve my temper , so I go on , colder and calmer and deadlier than ever , just a if mother have not speak . '' '
-- but I have to keep it now .
However , I promise you that I will not get another hat for three year or for the duration of the war , if it last long than that .
Even you ' -- oh , the sarcasm I put into the ` you ' -- ` can not say that what I pay be too much when spread over at least three year . ' ''
` You will be very tired of that hat before three year , Rilla , ' say mother , with a provoking grin , which , be interpret , mean that I would n't stick it out . ''
` Tired or not , I will wear it that long , ' I say : and then I march upstairs and cry to think that I have be sarcastic to mother .
`` I hate that hat already .
But three year or the duration of the war , I say , and three year or the duration of the war it shall be .
I vow and I shall keep my vow , cost what it will .
`` That be one of the ` catawampus ' thing .
The other be that I have quarrel with Irene Howard -- or she quarrel with me -- or , no , we both quarrel .
`` The Junior Red Cross meet here yesterday .
The hour of meeting be half-past two but Irene come at half-past one , because she get the chance of a drive down from the Upper Glen .
Irene have n't be a bit nice to me since the fuss about the eats ; and besides I feel sure she resent not be president .
But I have be determine that thing should go smoothly , so I have never take any notice , and when she come yesterday she seem so nice and sweet again that I hop she have get over her huffiness and we could be the chum we use to be .
`` But as soon a we sit down Irene begin to rub me the wrong way .
I saw her cast a look at my new knitting-bag .
All the girl have always say Irene be jealous-minded and I would never believe them before .
But now I feel that perhaps she be .
`` The first thing she do be to pounce on Jims -- Irene pretend to adore baby -- pick him out of his cradle and kiss him all over his face .
Now , Irene know perfectly well that I do n't like to have Jims kiss like that .
It be not hygienic .
After she have worry him till he begin to fuss , she look at me and give quite a nasty little laugh but she say , oh , so sweetly , '' ` Why , Rilla , darling , you look a if you think I be poison the baby . ' ''
` Oh , no , I do n't , Irene , ' I say -- every bit a sweetly , ` but you know Morgan say that the only place a baby should be kiss be on it forehead , for fear of germ , and that be my rule with Jims . ' ''
` Dear me , be I so full of germ ? '
say Irene plaintively .
I know she be make fun of me and I begin to boil inside -- but outside no sign of a simmer .
I be determine I would not scrap with Irene .
`` Then she begin to bounce Jims .
Now , Morgan say bouncing be almost the bad thing that can be do to a baby .
I never allow Jims to be bounce .
But Irene bounce him and that exasperate child like it .
He smile -- for the very first time .
He be four month old and he have never smile once before .
Not even mother or Susan have be able to coax that thing to smile , try a they would .
And here he be smile because Irene Howard bounce him !
Talk of gratitude !
`` I admit that smile make a big difference in him .
Two of the dear dimple come out in his cheek and his big brown eye seem full of laughter .
The way Irene rave over those dimple be silly , I consider .
You would have suppose she think she have really bring them into existence .
But I sew steadily and do not enthuse , and soon Irene get tire of bounce Jims and put him back in his cradle .
He do not like that after be play with , and he begin to cry and be fussy the rest of the afternoon , whereas if Irene have only leave him alone he would not have be a bit of trouble .
`` Irene look at him and say , ` Does he often cry like that ? '
a if she have never hear a baby cry before .
`` I explain patiently that child have to cry so many minute per day in order to expand their lung .
Morgan say so . ''
` If Jims do n't cry at all I 'd have to make him cry for at least twenty minute , ' I say . ''
` Oh , indeed ! '
say Irene , laugh a if she do n't believe me .
` Morgan on the Care of Infants ' be upstairs or I would soon have convince her .
Then she say Jims do n't have much hair -- she have never see a four month ' old baby so bald .
`` Of course , I know Jims have n't much hair -- yet ; but Irene say it in a tone that seem to imply it be my fault that he have n't any hair .
I say I have see dozen of baby every bit as bald a Jims , and Irene say , Oh very well , she have n't mean to offend me -- when I be n't offend .
`` It go on like that the rest of the hour -- Irene keep give me little dig all the time .
The girl have always say she be revengeful like that if she be peeve about anything ; but I never believe it before ; I use to think Irene just perfect , and it hurt me dreadfully to find she could stoop to this .
But I cork up my feeling and sew away for dear life on a Belgian child 's nightgown .
`` Then Irene tell me the mean , most contemptible thing that someone have say about Walter .
I wo n't write it down -- I ca n't .
Of course , she say it make her furious to hear it and all that -- but there be no need for her to tell me such a thing even if she do hear it .
She simply do it to hurt me .
`` I just explode .
` How dare you come here and repeat such a thing about my brother , Irene Howard ? '
I exclaim . '
I shall never forgive you -- never .
Your brother have n't enlist -- have n't any idea of enlist . ' ''
` Why Rilla , dear , I do n't say it , ' say Irene . '
I tell you it be Mrs. George Burr .
And I tell her -- ' '' ' I do n't want to hear what you tell her .
Do n't you ever speak to me again , Irene Howard . '
`` Oh course , I should n't have say that .
But it just seem to say itself .
Then the other girl all come in a bunch and I have to calm down and act the hostess ' part as well a I could .
Irene pair off with Olive Kirk all the rest of the afternoon and go away without so much a a look .
So I suppose she mean to take me at my word and I do n't care , for I do not want to be friend with a girl who could repeat such a falsehood about Walter .
But I feel unhappy over it for all that .
We 've always be such good chum and until lately Irene be lovely to me ; and now another illusion have be strip from my eye and I feel a if there be n't such a thing a real true friendship in the world .
`` Father get old Joe Mead to build a kennel for Dog Monday in the corner of the shipping-shed today .
We think perhaps Monday would come home when the cold weather come but he would n't .
No earthly influence can coax Monday away from that shed even for a few minute .
There he stay and meet every train .
So we have to do something to make him comfortable .
Joe build the kennel so that Monday could lie in it and still see the platform , so we hope he will occupy it .
`` Monday have become quite famous .
A reporter of the Enterprise come out from town and photograph him and write up the whole story of his faithful vigil .
It be publish in the Enterprise and copy all over Canada .
But that do n't matter to poor little Monday , Jem have go away -- Monday do n't know where or why -- but he will wait until he come back .
Somehow it comfort me : it 's foolish , I suppose , but it give me a feeling that Jem will come back or else Monday would n't keep on wait for him .
`` Jims be snore beside me in his cradle .
It be just a cold that make him snore -- not adenoid .
Irene have a cold yesterday and I know she give it to him , kiss him .
He be not quite such a nuisance a he be ; he have get some backbone and can sit up quite nicely , and he love his bath now and splash unsmilingly in the water instead of twist and shriek .
Oh , shall I ever forget those first two month !
I do n't know how I live through them .
But here I be and here be Jims and we both be go to ` carry on . '
I tickle him a little bit tonight when I undress him -- I would n't bounce him but Morgan do n't mention tickle -- just to see if he would smile for me as well a Irene .
And he do -- and out pop the dimple .
What a pity his mother could n't have see them !
`` I finish my sixth pair of sock today .
With the first three I get Susan to set the heel for me .
Then I think that be a bit of shirking , so I learn to do it myself .
I hate it -- but I have do so many thing I hate since 4th of August that one more or less do n't matter .
I just think of Jem joke about the mud on Salisbury Plain and I go at them . ''
CHAPTER XI DARK AND BRIGHT At Christmas the college boy and girl come home and for a little while Ingleside be gay again .
But all be not there -- for the first time one be miss from the circle round the Christmas table .
Jem , of the steady lip and fearless eye , be far away , and Rilla felt that the sight of his vacant chair be more than she could endure .
Susan have take a stubborn freak and insist on set out Jem 's place for him as usual , with the twisted little napkin ring he have always have since a boy , and the odd , high Green Gables goblet that Aunt Marilla have once give him and from which he always insist on drinking .
`` That bless boy shall have his place , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan firmly , `` and do not you feel over it , for you may be sure he be here in spirit and next Christmas he will be here in the body .
Wait you till the Big Push come in the spring and the war will be over in a jiffy . ''
They try to think so , but a shadow stalk in the background of their determined merrymaking .
Walter , too , be quiet and dull , all through the holiday .
He show Rilla a cruel , anonymous letter he have receive at Redmond -- a letter far more conspicuous for malice than for patriotic indignation .
`` Nevertheless , all it say be true , Rilla . ''
Rilla have catch it from him and throw it into the fire .
`` There be n't one word of truth in it , '' she declare hotly .
`` Walter , you 've get morbid -- a Miss Oliver say she get when she brood too long over one thing . ''
`` I ca n't get away from it at Redmond , Rilla .
The whole college be aflame over the war .
A perfectly fit fellow , of military age , who do n't join up be looked upon a a shirker and treat accordingly .
Dr. Milne , the English professor , who have always make a special pet of me , have two son in khaki ; and I can feel the change in his manner towards me . ''
`` It 's not fair -- you 're not fit . ''
`` Physically I be .
Sound a a bell .
The unfitness be in the soul and it 's a taint and a disgrace .
There , do n't cry , Rilla .
I 'm not go if that 's what you 're afraid of .
The Piper 's music ring in my ear day and night -- but I can not follow . ''
`` You would break mother 's heart and mine if you do , '' sob Rilla .
`` Oh , Walter , one be enough for any family . ''
The holiday be an unhappy time for her .
Still , have Nan and Di and Walter and Shirley home help in the enduring of thing .
A letter and book come for her from Kenneth Ford , too ; some sentence in the letter make her cheeks burn and her heart beat -- until the last paragraph , which send an icy chill over everything .
`` My ankle be about as good a new .
I 'll be fit to join up in a couple of month more , Rilla-my-Rilla .
It will be some feeling to get into khaki all right .
Little Ken will be able to look the whole world in the face then and owe not any man .
It 's be rotten lately , since I 've be able to walk without limp .
People who do n't know look at me as much a to say ` Slacker ! '
Well , they wo n't have the chance to look it much longer . ''
`` I hate this war , '' say Rilla bitterly , a she gaze out into the maple grove that be a chill glory of pink and gold in the winter sunset .
`` Nineteen-fourteen have go , '' say Dr. Blythe on New Year 's Day .
`` Its sun , which rise fairly , have set in blood .
What will nineteen-fifteen bring ? ''
`` Victory ! ''
say Susan , for once laconic .
`` Do you really believe we 'll win the war , Susan ? ''
say Miss Oliver drearily .
She have come over from Lowbridge to spend the day and see Walter and the girl before they go back to Redmond .
She be in a rather blue and cynical mood and incline to look on the dark side . ''
` Believe ' we 'll win the war ! ''
exclaim Susan .
`` No , Miss Oliver , dear , I do not believe -- I know .
That do not worry me .
What do worry me be the trouble and expense of it all .
But then you can not make omelet without break egg , so we must just trust in God and make big gun . ''
`` Sometimes I think the big gun be well to trust in than God , '' say Miss Oliver defiantly .
`` No , no , dear , you do not .
The Germans have the big gun at the Marne , have they not ?
But Providence settle them .
Do not ever forget that .
Just hold on to that when you feel incline to doubt .
Clutch hold of the side of your chair and sit tight and keep say , ` Big gun be good but the Almighty be well , and He be on our side , no matter what the Kaiser say about it . '
I would have go crazy many a day lately , Miss Oliver , dear , if I have not sit tight and repeat that to myself .
My cousin Sophia be , like you , somewhat inclined to despond .
` Oh , dear me , what will we do if the Germans ever get here , ' she wail to me yesterday .
` Bury them , ' say I , just as off-hand a that .
` There be plenty of room for the graf . '
Cousin Sophia say that I be flippant but I be not flippant , Miss Oliver , dear , only calm and confident in the British navy and our Canadian boy .
I be like old Mr. William Pollock of the Harbour Head .
He be very old and have be ill for a long time , and one night last week he be so low that his daughter-in-law whisper to some one that she think he be dead .
` Darn it , I ai n't , ' he call right out -- only , Miss Oliver , dear , he do not use so mild a word a ` darn ' -- ` darn it , I ai n't , and I do n't mean to die until the Kaiser be well lick . '
Now , that , Miss Oliver , dear , '' conclude Susan , `` be the kind of spirit I admire . ''
`` I admire it but I ca n't emulate it , '' sigh Gertrude .
`` Before this , I have always be able to escape from the hard thing of life for a little while by go into dreamland , and come back like a giant refreshed .
But I ca n't escape from this . ''
`` Nor I , '' say Mrs. Blythe .
`` I hate go to bed now .
All my life I 've like go to bed , to have a gay , mad , splendid half-hour of imagine thing before sleep .
Now I imagine them still .
But such different thing . ''
`` I be rather glad when the time come to go to bed , '' say Miss Oliver .
`` I like the darkness because I can be myself in it -- I need n't smile or talk bravely .
But sometimes my imagination get out of hand , too , and I see what you do -- terrible thing -- terrible year to come . ''
`` I be very thankful that I never have any imagination to speak of , '' say Susan .
`` I have be spar that .
I see by this paper that the Crown Prince be kill again .
Do you suppose there be any hope of his stay dead this time ?
And I also see that Woodrow Wilson be go to write another note .
I wonder , '' conclude Susan , with the bitter irony she have of late begin to use when refer to the poor President , `` if that man 's schoolmaster be alive . ''
In January Jims be five month old and Rilla celebrate the anniversary by shorten him .
`` He weigh fourteen pound , '' she announce jubilantly .
`` Just exactly what he should weigh at five month , accord to Morgan . ''
There be no longer any doubt in anybody 's mind that Jims be get positively pretty .
His little cheek be round and firm and faintly pink , his eye be big and bright , his tiny paw have dimple at the root of every finger .
He have even begin to grow hair , much to Rilla 's unspoken relief .
There be a pale golden fuzz all over his head that be distinctly visible in some light .
He be a good infant , generally sleep and digest a Morgan decreed .
Occasionally he smile but he have never laugh , in spite of all effort to make him .
This worried Rilla also , because Morgan say that baby usually laugh aloud from the third to the fifth month .
Jims be five month and have no notion of laughing .
Why have n't he ?
Was n't he normal ?
One night Rilla come home late from a recruiting meeting at the Glen where she have be give patriotic recitation .
Rilla have never be willing to recite in public before .
She be afraid of her tendency to lisp , which have a habit of revive if she be do anything that make her nervous .
When she have first be ask to recite at the Upper Glen meeting she have refuse .
Then she begin to worry over her refusal .
Was it cowardly ?
What would Jem think if he know ?
After two day of worry Rilla phone to the president of the Patriotic Society that she would recite .
She do , and lisp several time , and lay awake most of the night in an agony of wounded vanity .
Then two night after she recite again at Harbour Head .
She have be at Lowbridge and over-harbour since then and have become resign to an occasional lisp .
Nobody except herself seem to mind it .
And she be so earnest and appeal and shining-eyed !
More than one recruit join up because Rilla 's eye seem to look right at him when she passionately demand how could men die good than fight for the ash of their father and the temple of their god , or assure her audience with thrill intensity that one crowd hour of glorious life be worth an age without a name .
Even stolid Miller Douglas be so fired one night that it take Mary Vance a good hour to talk him back to sense .
Mary Vance say bitterly that if Rilla Blythe felt as bad a she have pretend to feel over Jem 's go to the front she would n't be urge other girl ' brother and friend to go .
On this particular night Rilla be tire and cold and very thankful to creep into her warm nest and cuddle down between her blanket , though a usual with a sorrowful wonder how Jem and Jerry be fare .
She be just get warm and drowsy when Jims suddenly begin to cry -- and keep on cry .
Rilla curl herself up in her bed and determine she would let him cry .
She have Morgan behind her for justification .
Jims be warm , physically comfortable -- his cry be n't the cry of pain -- and have his little tummy as full a be good for him .
Under such circumstance it would be simply spoil him to fuss over him , and she be n't go to do it .
He could cry until he get good and tired and ready to go to sleep again .
Then Rilla 's imagination begin to torment her .
Suppose , she think , I be a tiny , helpless creature only five month old , with my father somewhere in France and my poor little mother , who have be so worried about me , in the graveyard .
Suppose I be lie in a basket in a big , black room , without one speck of light , and nobody within mile of me , for all I could see or know .
Suppose there be n't a human be anywhere who love me -- for a father who have never see me could n't love me very much , especially when he have never write a word to or about me .
Would n't I cry , too ?
Would n't I feel just so lonely and forsaken and frighten that I 'd have to cry ?
Rilla hop out .
She pick Jims out of his basket and take him into her own bed .
His hand be cold , poor mite .
But he have promptly cease to cry .
And then , a she hold him close to her in the darkness , suddenly Jims laugh -- a real , gurgly , chuckly , delight , delightful laugh .
`` Oh , you dear little thing ! ''
exclaim Rilla .
`` Are you so pleased at find you 're not all alone , lose in a huge , big , black room ? ''
Then she know she want to kiss him and she do .
She kiss his silky , scent little head , she kiss his chubby little cheek , she kiss his little cold hand .
She want to squeeze him -- to cuddle him , just a she use to squeeze and cuddle her kitten .
Something delightful and yearning and brooding seem to have take possession of her .
She have never felt like this before .
In a few minute Jims be sound asleep ; and , a Rilla listen to his soft , regular breathing and felt the little body warm and contented against her , she realize that -- at last -- she love her war-baby .
`` He have get to be -- such -- a -- darling , '' she think drowsily , a she drift off to slumberland herself .
In February Jem and Jerry and Robert Grant be in the trench and a little more tension and dread be add to the Ingleside life .
In March `` Yiprez , '' a Susan call it , have come to have a bitter significance .
The daily list of casualty have begin to appear in the paper and no one at Ingleside ever answer the telephone without a horrible cold shrinking -- for it might be the station-master phone up to say a telegram have come from overseas .
No one at Ingleside ever get up in the morning without a sudden piercing wonder over what the day might bring .
`` And I use to welcome the morning so , '' think Rilla .
Yet the round of life and duty go steadily on and every week or so one of the Glen lad who have just the other day be a rollick schoolboy go into khaki .
`` It be bitter cold out tonight , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan , come in out of the clear starlit crispness of the Canadian winter twilight .
`` I wonder if the boy in the trench be warm . ''
`` How everything come back to this war , '' cry Gertrude Oliver .
`` We ca n't get away from it -- not even when we talk of the weather .
I never go out these dark cold night myself without thinking of the men in the trench -- not only our men but everybody 's men .
I would feel the same if there be nobody I know at the front .
When I snuggle down in my comfortable bed I be ashamed of be comfortable .
It seem a if it be wicked of me to be so when many be not . ''
`` I saw Mrs. Meredith down at the store , '' say Susan , `` and she tell me that they be really troubled over Bruce , he take thing so much to heart .
He have cry himself to sleep for a week , over the starving Belgians .
` Oh , mother , ' he will say to her , so beseeching-like , ` surely the baby be never hungry -- oh , not the baby , mother !
Just say the baby be not hungry , mother . '
And she can not say it because it would not be true , and she be at her wit ' end .
They try to keep such thing from him but he find them out and then they can not comfort him .
It break my heart to read about them myself , Mrs. Dr. dear , and I can not console myself with the thought that the tale be not true .
When I read a novel that make me want to weep I just say severely to myself , ` Now , Susan Baker , you know that be all a pack of lie . '
But we must carry on .
Jack Crawford say he be go to the war because he be tire of farming .
I hope he will find it a pleasant change .
And Mrs. Richard Elliott over-harbour be worry herself sick because she use to be always scold her husband about smoke up the parlour curtain .
Now that he have enlist she wish she have never say a word to him .
You know Josiah Cooper and William Daley , Mrs. Dr. dear .
They use to be fast friend but they quarrel twenty year ago and have never speak since .
Well , the other day Josiah go to William and say right out , ` Let u be friend .
` Tai n't any time to be hold grudge . '
William be real glad and hold out his hand , and they sit down for a good talk .
And in less than half an hour they have quarrel again , over how the war ought to be fight , Josiah hold that the Dardanelles expedition be rank folly and William maintain that it be the one sensible thing the Allies have do .
And now they be madder at each other than ever and William say Josiah be a bad a pro-German a Whiskers-on-the-Moon .
Whiskers-on-the-moon vow he be no pro-German but call himself a pacifist , whatever that may be .
It be nothing proper or Whiskers would not be it and that you may tie to .
He say that the big British victory at New Chapelle cost more than it be worth and he have forbid Joe Milgrave to come near the house because Joe run up his father 's flag when the news come .
Have you notice , Mrs. Dr. dear , that the Czar have change that Prish name to Premysl , which prove that the man have good sense , Russian though he be ?
Joe Vickers tell me in the store that he saw a very queer look thing in the sky tonight over Lowbridge way .
Do you suppose it could have be a Zeppelin , Mrs. Dr. dear ? ''
`` I do not think it very likely , Susan . ''
`` Well , I would feel easy about it if Whiskers-on-the-moon be not live in the Glen .
They say he be see go through strange manoeuvre with a lantern in his back yard one night lately .
Some people think he be signal . ''
`` To whom -- or what ? ''
`` Ah , that be the mystery , Mrs. Dr. dear .
In my opinion the Government would do well to keep an eye on that man if it do not want u to be all murder in our bed some night .
Now I shall just look over the paper a minute before go to write a letter to little Jem .
Two thing I never do , Mrs. Dr. dear , be write letter and read politics .
Yet here I be do both regular and I find there be something in politics after all .
Whatever Woodrow Wilson mean I can not fathom but I be hop I will puzzle it out yet . ''
Susan , in her pursuit of Wilson and politics , presently come upon something that disturb her and exclaim in a tone of bitter disappointment , `` That devilish Kaiser have only a boil after all . ''
`` Do n't swear , Susan , '' say Dr. Blythe , pull a long face . ''
` Devilish ' be not swearing , doctor , dear .
I have always understand that swearing be take the name of the Almighty in vain ? ''
`` Well , it be n't -- ahem -- refine , '' say the doctor , wink at Miss Oliver .
`` No , doctor , dear , the devil and the Kaiser -- if so be that they be really two different people -- be not refine .
And you can not refer to them in a refined way .
So I abide by what I say , although you may notice that I be careful not to use such expression when young Rilla be about .
And I maintain that the paper have no right to say that the Kaiser have pneumonia and raise people 's hope , and then come out and say he have nothing but a boil .
A boil , indeed !
I wish he be cover with them . ''
Susan stalk out to the kitchen and settle down to write to Jem ; deem him in need of some home comfort from certain passage in his letter that day .
`` We 're in an old wine cellar tonight , dad , '' he write , `` in water to our knee .
Rats everywhere -- no fire -- a drizzling rain come down -- rather dismal .
But it might be bad .
I get Susan 's box today and everything be in tip-top order and we have a feast .
Jerry be up the line somewhere and he say the ration be rather bad than Aunt Martha 's ditto use to be .
But here they 're not bad -- only monotonous .
Tell Susan I 'd give a year 's pay for a good batch of her monkey-faces ; but do n't let that inspire her to send any for they would n't keep .
`` We have be under fire since the last week in February .
One boy -- he be a Nova Scotian -- be kill right beside me yesterday .
A shell burst near u and when the mess clear away he be lie dead -- not mangle at all -- he just look a little startled .
It be the first time I 'd be close to anything like that and it be a nasty sensation , but one soon get use to horror here .
We 're in an absolutely different world .
The only thing that be the same be the star -- and they be never in their right place , somehow .
`` Tell mother not to worry -- I 'm all right -- fit a a fiddle -- and glad I come .
There 's something across from u here that have get to be wipe out of the world , that 's all -- an emanation of evil that would otherwise poison life for ever .
It 's get to be do , dad , however long it take , and whatever it cost , and you tell the Glen people this for me .
They do n't realize yet what it be have break loose -- I do n't when I first join up .
I think it be fun .
Well , it be n't !
But I 'm in the right place all right -- make no mistake about that .
When I saw what have be do here to home and garden and people -- well , dad , I seem to see a gang of Huns march through Rainbow Valley and the Glen , and the garden at Ingleside .
There be garden over here -- beautiful garden with the beauty of century -- and what be they now ?
Mangled , desecrated thing !
We be fight to make those dear old place where we have play a child , safe for other boy and girl -- fight for the preservation and safety of all sweet , wholesome thing .
`` Whenever any of you go to the station be sure to give Dog Monday a double pat for me .
Fancy the faithful little beggar wait there for me like that !
Honestly , dad , on some of these dark cold night in the trench , it hearten and brace me up no end to think that thousand of mile away at the old Glen station there be a small spotted dog share my vigil .
`` Tell Rilla I 'm glad her war-baby be turn out so well , and tell Susan that I 'm fight a good fight against both Huns and cootie . ''
`` Mrs. Dr. dear , '' whisper Susan solemnly , `` what be cootie ? ''
Mrs. Blythe whisper back and then say in reply to Susan 's horrified ejaculation , `` It 's always like that in the trench , Susan . ''
Susan shake her head and go away in grim silence to re-open a parcel she have sew up for Jem and slip in a fine tooth comb .
CHAPTER XII IN THE DAYS OF LANGEMARCK `` How can spring come and be beautiful in such a horror , '' write Rilla in her diary .
`` When the sun shine and the fluffy yellow catkin be come out on the willow-trees down by the brook , and the garden be begin to be beautiful I ca n't realize that such dreadful thing be happen in Flanders .
But they be !
`` This past week have be terrible for u all , since the news come of the fight around Ypres and the battle of Langemarck and St. Julien .
Our Canadian boy have do splendidly -- General French say they ` save the situation , ' when the Germans have all but break through .
But I ca n't feel pride or exultation or anything but a gnawing anxiety over Jem and Jerry and Mr. Grant .
The casualty list be come out in the paper every day -- oh , there be so many of them .
I ca n't bear to read them for fear I 'd find Jem 's name -- for there have be case where people have see their boy ' name in the casualty list before the official telegram come .
As for the telephone , for a day or two I just refuse to answer it , because I think I could not endure the horrible moment that come between say ` Hello ' and hear the response .
That moment seem a hundred year long , for I be always dread to hear ` There be a telegram for Dr. Blythe . '
Then , when I have shirk for a while , I be ashamed of leave it all for mother or Susan , and now I make myself go .
But it never get any easy .
Gertrude teach school and read composition and set examination paper just a she always have do , but I know her thought be over in Flanders all the time .
Her eye haunt me .
`` And Kenneth be in khaki now , too .
He have get a lieutenant 's commission and expect to go overseas in midsummer , so he write me .
There be n't much else in the letter -- he seem to be think of nothing but go overseas .
I shall not see him again before he go -- perhaps I will never see him again .
Sometimes I ask myself if that evening at Four Winds be all a dream .
It might as well be -- it seem a if it happen in another life live year ago -- and everybody have forget it but me .
`` Walter and Nan and Di come home last night from Redmond .
When Walter step off the train Dog Monday rush to meet him , frantic with joy .
I suppose he think Jem would be there , too .
After the first moment , he pay no attention to Walter and his pat , but just stand there , wag his tail nervously and look past Walter at the other people come out , with eye that make me choke up , for I could n't help think that , for all we know , Monday might never see Jem come off that train again .
Then , when all the people be out , Monday look up at Walter , give his hand a little lick a if to say , ' I know it be n't your fault he do n't come -- excuse me for feel disappointed , ' and then he trot back to his shed , with that funny little sidelong waggle of his that always make it seem that his hind leg be travel directly away from the point at which his foreleg be aim .
`` We try to coax him home with u -- Di even get down and kiss him between the eye and say , ` Monday , old duck , wo n't you come up with u just for the evening ? '
And Monday say -- he do !
-- ' I be very sorry but I ca n't .
I 've get a date to meet Jem here , you know , and there 's a train go through at eight . '
`` It 's lovely to have Walter back again though he seem quiet and sad , just a he be at Christmas .
But I 'm go to love him hard and cheer him up and make him laugh a he use to .
It seem to me that every day of my life Walter mean more to me .
`` The other even Susan happen to say that the mayflower be out in Rainbow Valley .
I chance to be look at mother when Susan speak .
Her face change and she give a queer little choked cry .
Most of the time mother be so spunky and gay you would never guess what she feel inside ; but now and then some little thing be too much for her and we see under the surface .
` Mayflowers ! '
she say .
` Jem bring me mayflower last year ! '
and she get up and go out of the room .
I would have rush off to Rainbow Valley and bring her an armful of mayflower , but I know that be n't what she want .
And after Walter get home last night he slip away to the valley and bring mother home all the mayflower he could find .
Nobody have say a word to him about it -- he just remember himself that Jem use to bring mother the first mayflower and so he bring them in Jem 's place .
It show how tender and thoughtful he be .
And yet there be people who send him cruel letter !
`` It seem strange that we can go in with ordinary life just a if nothing be happen overseas that concern u , just a if any day might not bring u awful news .
But we can and do .
Susan be put in the garden , and mother and she be houseclean , and we Junior Reds be get up a concert in aid of the Belgians .
We have be practise for a month and have no end of trouble and bother with cranky people .
Miranda Pryor promise to help with a dialogue and when she have her part all learn her father put his foot down and refuse to allow her to help at all .
I be not blame Miranda exactly , but I do think she might have a little more spunk sometimes .
If she put her foot down once in a while she might bring her father to term , for she be all the housekeeper he have and what would he do if she ` strike ' ?
If I be in Miranda 's shoe I 'd find some way of manage Whiskers-on-the-moon .
I would horse-whip him , or bite him , if nothing else would serve .
But Miranda be a meek and obedient daughter whose day should be long in the land .
`` I could n't get anyone else to take the part , because nobody like it , so finally I have to take it myself .
Olive Kirk be on the concert committee and go against me in every single thing .
But I get my way in ask Mrs. Channing to come out from town and sing for u , anyhow .
She be a beautiful singer and will draw such a crowd that we will make more than we will have to pay her .
Olive Kirk think our local talent good enough and Minnie Clow wo n't sing at all now in the chorus because she would be so nervous before Mrs. Channing .
And Minnie be the only good alto we have !
There be time when I be so exasperated that I feel tempt to wash my hand of the whole affair ; but after I dance round my room a few time in sheer rage I cool down and have another whack at it .
Just at present I be rack with worry for fear the Isaac Reeses be take whooping-cough .
They have all get a dreadful cold and there be five of them who have important part in the programme and if they go and develop whooping-cough what shall I do ?
Dick Reese 's violin solo be to be one of our titbit and Kit Reese be in every tableau and the three small girl have the cut flag-drill .
I 've be toil for week to train them in it , and now it seem likely that all my trouble will go for nothing .
`` Jims cut his first tooth today .
I be very glad , for he be nearly nine month old and Mary Vance have be insinuate that he be awfully backward about cut his teeth .
He have begin to creep but do n't crawl a most baby do .
He trot about on all four and carry thing in his mouth like a little dog .
Nobody can say he be n't up to schedule time in the matter of creep anyway -- away ahead of it indeed , since ten month be Morgan 's average for creep .
He be so cute , it will be a shame if his dad never see him .
His hair be come on nicely too , and I be not without hope that it will be curly .
`` Just for a few minute , while I 've be write of Jims and the concert , I 've forget Ypres and the poison gas and the casualty list .
Now it all rush back , bad than ever .
Oh , if we could just know that Jem be all right !
I use to be so furious with Jem when he call me Spider .
And now , if he would just come whistle through the hall and call out , ` Hello , Spider , ' a he use to do , I would think it the lovely name in the world . ''
Rilla put away her diary and go out to the garden .
The spring evening be very lovely .
The long , green , seaward-looking glen be fill with dusk , and beyond it be meadow of sunset .
The harbour be radiant , purple here , azure there , opal elsewhere .
The maple grove be begin to be misty green .
Rilla look about her with wistful eye .
Who say that spring be the joy of the year ?
It be the heart-break of the year .
And the pale-purply morning and the daffodil star and the wind in the old pine be so many separate pang of the heart-break .
Would life ever be free from dread again ?
`` It 's good to see P.E.I . twilight once more , '' say Walter , join her .
`` I do n't really remember that the sea be so blue and the road so red and the wood nook so wild and fairy haunt .
Yes , the fairy still abide here .
I vow I could find score of them under the violet in Rainbow Valley . ''
Rilla be momentarily happy .
This sound like the Walter of yore .
She hop he be forget certain thing that have trouble him .
`` And be n't the sky blue over Rainbow Valley ? ''
she say , respond to his mood .
`` Blue -- blue -- you 'd have to say ` blue ' a hundred time before you could express how blue it be . ''
Susan wander by , her head tie up with a shawl , her hand full of garden implement .
Doc , stealthy and wild-eyed , be shadow her step among the spirea bush .
`` The sky may be blue , '' say Susan , `` but that cat have be Hyde all day so we will likely have rain tonight and by the same token I have rheumatism in my shoulder . ''
`` It may rain -- but do n't think rheumatism , Susan -- think violet , '' say Walter gaily -- rather too gaily , Rilla think .
Susan consider him unsympathetic .
`` Indeed , Walter dear , I do not know what you mean by think violet , '' she respond stiffly , `` and rheumatism be not a thing to be joke about , a you may some day realize for yourself .
I hope I be not of the kind that be always complain of their ache and pain , especially now when the news be so terrible .
Rheumatism be bad enough but I realize , and none better , that it be not to be compare to be gas by the Huns . ''
`` Oh , my God , no ! ''
exclaim Walter passionately .
He turn and go back to the house .
Susan shake her head .
She disapprove entirely of such ejaculation .
`` I hope he will not let his mother hear him talk like that , '' she think a she stack the hoe and rake away .
Rilla be stand among the budding daffodils with tear-filled eye .
Her evening be spoil ; she detest Susan , who have somehow hurt Walter ; and Jem -- have Jem be gas ?
Had he die in torture ?
`` I ca n't endure this suspense any long , '' say Rilla desperately .
But she endure it a the others do for another week .
Then a letter come from Jem .
He be all right .
`` I 've come through without a scratch , dad .
Do n't know how I or any of u do it .
You 'll have see all about it in the paper -- I ca n't write of it .
But the Huns have n't get through -- they wo n't get through .
Jerry be knock stiff by a shell one time , but it be only the shock .
He be all right in a few day .
Grant be safe , too . ''
Nan have a letter from Jerry Meredith .
`` I come back to consciousness at dawn , '' he write .
`` Could n't tell what have happen to me but think that I be do for .
I be all alone and afraid -- terribly afraid .
Dead men be all around me , lie on the horrible grey , slimy field .
I be woefully thirsty -- and I think of David and the Bethlehem water -- and of the old spring in Rainbow Valley under the maple .
I seem to see it just before me -- and you stand laugh on the other side of it -- and I think it be all over with me .
And I do n't care .
Honestly , I do n't care .
I just felt a dreadful childish fear of loneliness and of those dead men around me , and a sort of wonder how this could have happen to me .
Then they find me and cart me off and before long I discover that there be n't really anything wrong with me .
I 'm go back to the trench tomorrow .
Every man be need there that can be get . ''
`` Laughter be go out of the world , '' say Faith Meredith , who have come over to report on her letter .
`` I remember tell old Mrs. Taylor long ago that the world be a world of laughter .
But it be n't so any long . ''
`` It 's a shriek of anguish , '' say Gertrude Oliver .
`` We must keep a little laughter , girl , '' say Mrs. Blythe .
`` A good laugh be as good a a prayer sometimes -- only sometimes , '' she add under her breath .
She have find it very hard to laugh during the three week she have just live through -- she , Anne Blythe , to whom laughter have always come so easily and freshly .
And what hurt most be that Rilla 's laughter have grow so rare -- Rilla whom she use to think laughed over-much .
Was all the child 's girlhood to be so cloud ?
Yet how strong and clever and womanly she be grow !
How patiently she knit and sew and manipulate those uncertain Junior Reds !
And how wonderful she be with Jims .
`` She really could not do good for that child than if she have raise a baker 's dozen , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' Susan have avow solemnly .
`` Little do I ever expect it of her on the day she land here with that soup tureen . ''
CHAPTER XIII A SLICE OF HUMBLE PIE `` I be very much afraid , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan , who have be on a pilgrimage to the station with some choice bone for Dog Monday , `` that something terrible have happen .
Whiskers-on-the-moon come off the train from Charlottetown and he be look pleased .
I do not remember that I ever saw him with a smile on in public before .
Of course he may have just be get the good of somebody in a cattle deal but I have an awful presentiment that the Huns have break through somewhere . ''
Perhaps Susan be unjust in connect Mr. Pryor 's smile with the sinking of the Lusitania , news of which circulate an hour later when the mail be distribute .
But the Glen boy turn out that night in a body and break all his window in a fine frenzy of indignation over the Kaiser 's doings .
`` I do not say they do right and I do not say they do wrong , '' say Susan , when she hear of it .
`` But I will say that I would n't have mind throw a few stone myself .
One thing be certain -- Whiskers-on-the-moon say in the post office the day the news come , in the presence of witness , that folk who could not stay home after they have be warn deserve no good fate .
Norman Douglas be fairly foam at the mouth over it all .
` If the devil do n't get those men who sink the Lusitania then there be no use in there be a devil , ' he be shout in Carter 's store last night .
Norman Douglas always have believe that anybody who oppose him be on the side of the devil , but a man like that be bind to be right once in a while .
Bruce Meredith be worry over the baby who be drown .
And it seem he pray for something very special last Friday night and do n't get it , and be feel quite disgruntle over it .
But when he hear about the Lusitania he tell his mother that he understand now why God do n't answer his prayer -- He be too busy attend to the soul of all the people who go down on the Lusitania .
That child 's brain be a hundred year old than his body , Mrs. Dr. dear .
As for the Lusitania , it be an awful occurrence , whatever way you look at it .
But Woodrow Wilson be go to write a note about it , so why worry ?
A pretty president ! ''
and Susan bang her pot about wrathfully .
President Wilson be rapidly become anathema in Susan 's kitchen .
Mary Vance drop in one evening to tell the Ingleside folk that she have withdraw all opposition to Miller Douglas 's enlisting .
`` This Lusitania business be too much for me , '' say Mary brusquely .
`` When the Kaiser take to drown innocent baby it 's high time somebody tell him where he get off at .
This thing must be fight to a finish .
It 's be soak into my mind slow but I 'm on now .
So I up and tell Miller he could go as far a I be concern .
Old Kitty Alec wo n't be convert though .
If every ship in the world be submarine and every baby drown , Kitty would n't turn a hair .
But I flatter myself that it be me keep Miller back all along and not the fair Kitty .
I may have deceive myself -- but we shall see . ''
They do see .
The next Sunday Miller Douglas walk into the Glen Church beside Mary Vance in khaki .
And Mary be so proud of him that her white eye fairly blaze .
Joe Milgrave , back under the gallery , look at Miller and Mary and then at Miranda Pryor , and sigh so heavily that every one within a radius of three pew hear him and know what his trouble be .
Walter Blythe do not sigh .
But Rilla , scan his face anxiously , saw a look that cut into her heart .
It haunt her for the next week and make an undercurrent of soreness in her soul , which be externally be harrow up by the near approach of the Red Cross concert and the worry connect therewith .
The Reese cold have not develop into whooping-cough , so that tangle be straighten out .
But other thing be hang in the balance ; and on the very day before the concert come a regretful letter from Mrs. Channing say that she could not come to sing .
Her son , who be in Kingsport with his regiment , be seriously ill with pneumonia , and she must go to him at once .
The member of the concert committee look at each other in blank dismay .
What be to be do ?
`` This come of depend on outside help , '' say Olive Kirk , disagreeably .
`` We must do something , '' say Rilla , too desperate to care for Olive 's manner .
`` We 've advertise the concert everywhere -- and crowd be come -- there 's even a big party come out from town -- and we be short enough of music a it be .
We must get some one to sing in Mrs. Channing 's place . ''
`` I do n't know who you can get at this late date , '' say Olive .
`` Irene Howard could do it ; but it be not likely she will after the way she be insult by our society . ''
`` How do our society insult her ? ''
ask Rilla , in what she call her ` cold-pale tone . '
Its coldness and pallor do not daunt Olive .
`` You insult her , '' she answer sharply .
`` Irene tell me all about it -- she be literally heart-broken .
You tell her never to speak to you again -- and Irene tell me she simply could not imagine what she have say or do to deserve such treatment .
That be why she never come to our meeting again but join in with the Lowbridge Red Cross .
I do not blame her in the least , and I , for one , will not ask her to lower herself by help u out of this scrape . ''
`` You do n't expect me to ask her ? ''
giggle Amy MacAllister , the other member of the committee .
`` Irene and I have n't speak for a hundred year .
Irene be always get ` insult ' by somebody .
But she be a lovely singer , I 'll admit that , and people would just as soon hear her a Mrs. Channing . ''
`` It would n't do any good if you do ask her , '' say Olive significantly .
`` Soon after we begin plan this concert , back in April , I meet Irene in town one day and ask her if she would n't help u out .
She say she 'd love to but she really do n't see how she could when Rilla Blythe be run the programme , after the strange way Rilla have behave to her .
So there it be and here we be , and a nice failure our concert will be . ''
Rilla go home and shut herself up in her room , her soul in a turmoil .
She would not humiliate herself by apologize to Irene Howard !
Irene have be as much in the wrong a she have be ; and she have tell such mean , distorted version of their quarrel everywhere , pose a a puzzled , injured martyr .
Rilla could never bring herself to tell her side of it .
The fact that a slur at Walter be mixed up in it tie her tongue .
So most people believe that Irene have be badly use , except a few girl who have never like her and side with Rilla .
And yet -- the concert over which she have work so hard be go to be a failure .
Mrs. Channing 's four solo be the feature of the whole programme .
`` Miss Oliver , what do you think about it ? ''
she ask in desperation .
`` I think Irene be the one who should apologize , '' say Miss Oliver .
`` But unfortunately my opinion will not fill the blank in your programme . ''
`` If I go and apologize meekly to Irene she would sing , I be sure , '' sigh Rilla .
`` She really love to sing in public .
But I know she 'll be nasty about it -- I feel I 'd rather do anything than go .
I suppose I should go -- if Jem and Jerry can face the Huns surely I can face Irene Howard , and swallow my pride to ask a favour of her for the good of the Belgians .
Just at present I feel that I can not do it but for all that I have a presentiment that after supper you 'll see me meekly trot through Rainbow Valley on my way to the Upper Glen Road . ''
Rilla 's presentiment prove correct .
After supper she dress herself carefully in her blue , bead crepe -- for vanity be hard to quell than pride and Irene always saw any flaw or shortcoming in another girl 's appearance .
Besides , a Rilla have tell her mother one day when she be nine year old , `` It be easy to behave nicely when you have your good clothes on . ''
Rilla do her hair very becomingly and don a long raincoat for fear of a shower .
But all the while her thought be concern with the come distasteful interview , and she keep rehearse mentally her part in it .
She wish it be over -- she wish she have never try to get up a Belgian Relief concert -- she wish she have not quarrel with Irene .
After all , disdainful silence would have be much more effective in meet the slur upon Walter .
It be foolish and childish to fly out a she have do -- well , she would be wiser in the future , but meanwhile a large and very unpalatable slice of humble pie have to be eat , and Rilla Blythe be no fonder of that wholesome article of diet than the rest of u .
By sunset she be at the door of the Howard house -- a pretentious abode , with white scroll-work round the eaves and an eruption of bay-windows on all it side .
Mrs. Howard , a plump , voluble dame , meet Rilla gushingly and leave her in the parlour while she go to call Irene .
Rilla throw off her rain-coat and look at herself critically in the mirror over the mantel .
Hair , hat , and dress be satisfactory -- nothing there for Miss Irene to make fun of .
Rilla remember how clever and amuse she use to think Irene 's biting little comment about other girl .
Well , it have come home to her now .
Presently , Irene skim down , elegantly gown , with her pale , straw-coloured hair do in the late and most extreme fashion , and an over-luscious atmosphere of perfume envelop her .
`` Why how do you do , Miss Blythe ? ''
she say sweetly .
`` This be a very unexpected pleasure . ''
Rilla have rise to take Irene 's chilly finger-tips and now , a she sit down again , she saw something that temporarily stun her .
Irene saw it too , a she sit down , and a little amused , impertinent smile appear on her lip and hover there during the rest of the interview .
On one of Rilla 's foot be a smart little steel-buckled shoe and a filmy blue silk stocking .
The other be clothe in a stout and rather shabby boot and black lisle !
Poor Rilla !
She have change , or begin to change her boot and stocking after she have put on her dress .
This be the result of do one thing with your hand and another with your brain .
Oh , what a ridiculous position to be in -- and before Irene Howard of all people -- Irene , who be star at Rilla 's foot a if she have never see foot before !
And once she have think Irene 's manner perfection !
Everything that Rilla have prepare to say vanished from her memory .
Vainly try to tuck her unlucky foot under her chair , she blurt out a blunt statement .
`` I have come to athk a favour of you , Irene . ''
There -- lisping !
Oh , she have be prepare for humiliation but not to this extent !
Really , there be limit !
`` Yes ? ''
say Irene in a cool , question tone , lift her shallowly-set , insolent eye to Rilla 's crimson face for a moment and then drop them again a if she could not tear them from their fascinate gaze at the shabby boot and the gallant shoe .
Rilla gather herself together .
She would not lisp -- she would be calm and compose .
`` Mrs. Channing can not come because her son be ill in Kingsport , and I have come on behalf of the committee to ask you if you will be so kind a to sing for u in her place . ''
Rilla enunciate every word so precisely and carefully that she seem to be recite a lesson .
`` It 's something of a fiddler 's invitation , be n't it ? ''
say Irene , with one of her disagreeable smile .
`` Olive Kirk ask you to help when we first think of the concert and you refuse , '' say Rilla .
`` Why , I could hardly help -- then -- could I ? ''
ask Irene plaintively .
`` After you order me never to speak to you again ?
It would have be very awkward for u both , do n't you think ? ''
Now for the humble pie .
`` I want to apologize to you for say that , Irene . ''
say Rilla steadily .
`` I should not have say it and I have be very sorry ever since .
Will you forgive me ? ''
`` And sing at your concert ? ''
say Irene sweetly and insultingly .
`` If you mean , '' say Rilla miserably , `` that I would not be apologize to you if it be not for the concert perhaps that be true .
But it be also true that I have felt ever since it happen that I should not have say what I do and that I have be sorry for it all winter .
That be all I can say .
If you feel you ca n't forgive me I suppose there be nothing more to be say . ''
`` Oh , Rilla dear , do n't snap me up like that , '' plead Irene .
`` Of course I 'll forgive you -- though I do feel awfully about it -- how awfully I hope you 'll never know .
I cry for week over it .
And I have n't say or do a thing ! ''
Rilla choke back a retort .
After all , there be no use in argue with Irene , and the Belgians be starve .
`` Do n't you think you can help u with the concert , '' she force herself to say .
Oh , if only Irene would stop look at that boot !
Rilla could just hear her give Olive Kirk an account of it .
`` I do n't see how I really can at the last moment like this , '' protest Irene .
`` There be n't time to learn anything new . ''
`` Oh , you have lot of lovely song that nobody in the Glen ever hear before , '' say Rilla , who know Irene have be go to town all winter for lesson and that this be only a pretext .
`` They will all be new down there . ''
`` But I have no accompanist , '' protest Irene .
`` Una Meredith can accompany you , '' say Rilla .
`` Oh , I could n't ask her , '' sigh Irene .
`` We have n't speak since last fall .
She be so hateful to me the time of our Sunday-school concert that I simply have to give her up . ''
Dear , dear , be Irene at feud with everybody ?
As for Una Meredith be hateful to anybody , the idea be so farcical that Rilla have much ado to keep from laugh in Irene 's very face .
`` Miss Oliver be a beautiful pianist and can play any accompaniment at sight , '' say Rilla desperately .
`` She will play for you and you could run over your song easily tomorrow even at Ingleside before the concert . ''
`` But I have n't anything to wear .
My new evening-dress be n't home from Charlottetown yet , and I simply can not wear my old one at such a big affair .
It be too shabby and old-fashioned . ''
`` Our concert , '' say Rilla slowly , `` be in aid of Belgian child who be starve to death .
Do n't you think you could wear a shabby dress once for their sake , Irene ? ''
`` Oh , do n't you think those account we get of the condition of the Belgians be very much exaggerate ? ''
say Irene .
`` I 'm sure they ca n't be actually starve you know , in the twentieth century .
The newspaper always colour thing so highly . ''
Rilla conclude that she have humiliate herself enough .
There be such a thing a self-respect .
No more coaxing , concert or no concert .
She get up , boot and all .
`` I be sorry you ca n't help u , Irene , but since you can not we must do the best we can . ''
Now this do not suit Irene at all .
She desire exceedingly to sing at that concert , and all her hesitation be merely by way of enhance the boon of her final consent .
Besides , she really want to be friend with Rilla again .
Rilla 's whole-hearted , ungrudging adoration have be very sweet incense to her .
And Ingleside be a very charming house to visit , especially when a handsome college student like Walter be home .
She stop look at Rilla 's foot .
`` Rilla , darling , do n't be so abrupt .
I really want to help you , if I can manage it .
Just sit down and let 's talk it over . ''
`` I 'm sorry , but I ca n't .
I have to be home soon -- Jims have to be settle for the night , you know . ''
`` Oh , yes -- the baby you be bring up by the book .
It 's perfectly sweet of you to do it when you hate child so .
How cross you be just because I kiss him !
But we 'll forget all that and be chum again , wo n't we ?
Now , about the concert -- I dare say I can run into town on the morning train after my dress , and out again on the afternoon one in plenty of time for the concert , if you 'll ask Miss Oliver to play for me .
I could n't -- she 's so dreadfully haughty and supercilious that she simply paralyse poor little me . ''
Rilla do not waste time or breath defend Miss Oliver .
She coolly thank Irene , who have suddenly become very amiable and gushing , and get away .
She be very thankful the interview be over .
But she know now that she and Irene could never be the friend they have be .
Friendly , yes -- but friend , no .
Nor do she wish it .
All winter she have felt under her other and more serious worry , a little feeling of regret for her lose chum .
Now it be suddenly go .
Irene be not a Mrs. Elliott would say , of the race that know Joseph .
Rilla do not say or think that she have outgrow Irene .
Had the thought occur to her she would have consider it absurd when she be not yet seventeen and Irene be twenty .
But it be the truth .
Irene be just what she have be a year ago -- just what she would always be .
Rilla Blythe 's nature in that year have change and mature and deepen .
She find herself see through Irene with a disconcerting clearness -- discern under all her superficial sweetness , her pettiness , her vindictiveness , her insincerity , her essential cheapness .
Irene have lose for ever her faithful worshipper .
But not until Rilla have traverse the Upper Glen Road and find herself in the moon-dappled solitude of Rainbow Valley do she fully recover her composure of spirit .
Then she stop under a tall wild plum that be ghostly white and fair in it misty spring bloom and laugh .
`` There be only one thing of importance just now -- and that be that the Allies win the war , '' she say aloud .
`` Therefore , it follow without dispute that the fact that I go to see Irene Howard with odd shoe and stocking on be of no importance whatever .
Nevertheless , I , Bertha Marilla Blythe , swear solemnly with the moon a witness '' -- Rilla lift her hand dramatically to the say moon -- `` that I will never leave my room again without look carefully at both my foot . ''
CHAPTER XIV THE VALLEY OF DECISION Susan keep the flag fly at Ingleside all the next day , in honour of Italy 's declaration of war .
`` And not before it be time , Mrs. Dr. dear , consider the way thing have begin to go on the Russian front .
Say what you will , those Russians be kittle cattle , the grand duke Nicholas to the contrary notwithstanding .
It be a fortunate thing for Italy that she have come in on the right side , but whether it be a fortunate for the Allies I will not predict until I know more about Italians than I do now .
However , she will give that old reprobate of a Francis Joseph something to think about .
A pretty Emperor indeed -- with one foot in the grave and yet plot wholesale murder '' -- and Susan thump and knead her bread with as much vicious energy a she could have expend in punch Francis Joseph himself if he have be so unlucky a to fall into her clutch .
Walter have go to town on the early train , and Nan offer to look after Jims for the day and so set Rilla free .
Rilla be wildly busy all day , help to decorate the Glen hall and see to a hundred last thing .
The evening be beautiful , in spite of the fact that Mr. Pryor be report to have say that he `` hop it would rain pitch fork point down , '' and to have wantonly kick Miranda 's dog a he say it .
Rilla , rush home from the hall , dress hurriedly .
Everything have go surprisingly well at the last ; Irene be even then downstairs practise her song with Miss Oliver ; Rilla be excite and happy , forgetful even of the Western front for the moment .
It give her a sense of achievement and victory to have bring her effort of week to such a successful conclusion .
She know that there have not lack people who think and hint that Rilla Blythe have not the tact or patience to engineer a concert programme .
She have show them !
Little snatch of song bubble up from her lip a she dress .
She think she be look very well .
Excitement bring a faint , become pink into her round creamy cheek , quite drown out her few freckle , and her hair gleam with red-brown lustre .
Should she wear crab-apple blossom in it , or her little fillet of pearl ?
After some agonise waver she decide on the crab-apple blossom and tuck the white waxen cluster behind her left ear .
Now for a final look at her foot .
Yes , both slipper be on .
She give the sleeping Jims a kiss -- what a dear little warm , rosy , satin face he have -- and hurry down the hill to the hall .
Already it be fill -- soon it be crowd .
Her concert be go to be a brilliant success .
The first three number be successfully over .
Rilla be in the little dressing-room behind the platform , look out on the moonlit harbour and rehearse her own recitation .
She be alone , the rest of the performer be in the large room on the other side .
Suddenly she felt two soft bare arm slip round her waist , then Irene Howard drop a light kiss on her cheek .
`` Rilla , you sweet thing , you 're look simply angelic to-night .
You have spunk -- I think you would feel so badly over Walter 's enlist that you 'd hardly be able to bear up at all , and here you be as cool a a cucumber .
I wish I have half your nerve . ''
Rilla stand perfectly still .
She felt no emotion whatever -- she felt nothing .
The world of feeling have just go blank .
`` Walter -- enlist '' -- she hear herself say -- then she hear Irene 's affected little laugh .
`` Why , do n't you know ?
I think you do of course , or I would n't have mention it .
I be always put my foot in it , be n't I ?
Yes , that be what he go to town for to-day -- he tell me come out on the train to-night , I be the first person he tell .
He be n't in khaki yet -- they be out of uniform -- but he will be in a day or two .
I always say Walter have a much pluck a anybody .
I assure you I felt proud of him , Rilla , when he tell me what he 'd do .
Oh , there 's an end of Rick MacAllister 's reading .
I must fly .
I promise I 'd play for the next chorus -- Alice Clow have such a headache . ''
She be go -- oh , thank God , she be go !
Rilla be alone again , star out at the unchanged , dream-like beauty of moonlit Four Winds .
Feeling be come back to her -- a pang of agony so acute a to be almost physical seem to rend her apart .
`` I can not bear it , '' she say .
And then come the awful thought that perhaps she could bear it and that there might be year of this hideous suffering before her .
She must get away -- she must rush home -- she must be alone .
She could not go out there and play for drill and give reading and take part in dialogue now .
It would spoil half the concert ; but that do not matter -- nothing matter .
Was this she , Rilla Blythe -- this tortured thing , who have be quite happy a few minute ago ?
Outside , a quartette be sing `` We 'll never let the old flag fall '' -- the music seem to be come from some remote distance .
Why could n't she cry , a she have cry when Jem tell them he must go ?
If she could cry perhaps this horrible something that seem to have seize on her very life might let go .
But no tear come !
Where be her scarf and coat ?
She must get away and hide herself like an animal hurt to the death .
Was it a coward 's part to run away like this ?
The question come to her suddenly a if someone else have ask it .
She think of the shamble of the Flanders front -- she think of her brother and her playmate help to hold those fire-swept trench .
What would they think of her if she shirk her little duty here -- the humble duty of carry the programme through for her Red Cross ?
But she could n't stay -- she could n't -- yet what be it mother have say when Jem go : `` When our woman fail in courage shall our men be fearless still ? ''
But this -- this be unbearable .
Still , she stop half-way to the door and go back to the window .
Irene be sing now ; her beautiful voice -- the only real thing about her -- soar clear and sweet through the building .
Rilla know that the girl ' Fairy Drill come next .
Could she go out there and play for it ?
Her head be ache now -- her throat be burn .
Oh , why have Irene tell her just then , when tell could do no good ?
Irene have be very cruel .
Rilla remember now that more than once that day she have catch her mother look at her with an odd expression .
She have be too busy to wonder what it mean .
She understand now .
Mother have know why Walter go to town but would n't tell her until the concert be over .
What spirit and endurance mother have !
`` I must stay here and see thing through , '' say Rilla , clasp her cold hand together .
The rest of the evening always seem like a fevered dream to her .
Her body be crowd by people but her soul be alone in a torture-chamber of it own .
Yet she play steadily for the drill and give her reading without falter .
She even put on a grotesque old Irish woman 's costume and act the part in the dialogue which Miranda Pryor have not take .
But she do not give her `` brogue '' the inimitable twist she have give it in the practice , and her reading lack their usual fire and appeal .
As she stand before the audience she saw one face only -- that of the handsome , dark-haired lad sit beside her mother -- and she saw that same face in the trench -- saw it lie cold and dead under the star -- saw it pin in prison -- saw the light of it eye blot out -- saw a hundred horrible thing a she stand there on the beflagged platform of the Glen hall with her own face whiter than the milky crab-blossoms in her hair .
Between her number she walk restlessly up and down the little dressing-room .
Would the concert never end !
It end at last .
Olive Kirk rush up and tell her exultantly that they have make a hundred dollar .
`` That 's good , '' Rilla say mechanically .
Then she be away from them all -- oh , thank God , she be away from them all -- Walter be wait for her at the door .
He put his arm through hers silently and they go together down the moonlit road .
The frog be sing in the marsh , the dim , ensilvered field of home lay all around them .
The spring night be lovely and appeal .
Rilla felt that it beauty be an insult to her pain .
She would hate moonlight for ever .
`` You know ? ''
say Walter .
`` Yes .
Irene tell me , '' answer Rilla chokingly .
`` We do n't want you to know till the evening be over .
I know when you come out for the drill that you have hear .
Little sister , I have to do it .
I could n't live any long on such term with myself a I have be since the Lusitania be sunk .
When I picture those dead woman and child float about in that pitiless , ice-cold water -- well , at first I just felt a sort of nausea with life .
I want to get out of the world where such a thing could happen -- shake it accursed dust from my foot for ever .
Then I know I have to go . ''
`` There be -- plenty -- without you . ''
`` That be n't the point , Rilla-my-Rilla .
I 'm go for my own sake -- to save my soul alive .
It will shrink to something small and mean and lifeless if I do n't go .
That would be bad than blindness or mutilation or any of the thing I 've fear . ''
`` You may -- be -- kill , '' Rilla hat herself for say it -- she know it be a weak and cowardly thing to say -- but she have rather go to piece after the tension of the evening . ''
` Comes he slow or come he fast It be but death who come at last . ' ''
quote Walter .
`` It 's not death I fear -- I tell you that long ago .
One can pay too high a price for mere life , little sister .
There 's so much hideousness in this war -- I 've get to go and help wipe it out of the world .
I 'm go to fight for the beauty of life , Rilla-my-Rilla -- that be my duty .
There may be a high duty , perhaps -- but that be mine .
I owe life and Canada that , and I 've get to pay it .
Rilla , tonight for the first time since Jem leave I 've get back my self-respect .
I could write poetry , '' Walter laugh .
`` I 've never be able to write a line since last August .
Tonight I 'm full of it .
Little sister , be brave -- you be so plucky when Jem go . ''
`` This -- be -- different , '' Rilla have to stop after every word to fight down a wild outburst of sob .
`` I love -- Jem -- of course -- but -- when -- he go -- away -- we think -- the war -- would soon -- be over -- and you be -- everything to me , Walter . ''
`` You must be brave to help me , Rilla-my-Rilla .
I 'm exalted tonight -- drunk with the excitement of victory over myself -- but there will be other time when it wo n't be like this -- I 'll need your help then . ''
`` When -- do -- you -- go ? ''
She must know the bad at once .
`` Not for a week -- then we go to Kingsport for training .
I suppose we 'll go overseas about the middle of July -- we do n't know . ''
One week -- only one week more with Walter !
The eye of youth do not see how she be to go on living .
When they turn in at the Ingleside gate Walter stop in the shadow of the old pine and draw Rilla close to him .
`` Rilla-my-Rilla , there be girl a sweet and pure a you in Belgium and Flanders .
You -- even you -- know what their fate be .
We must make it impossible for such thing to happen again while the world last .
You 'll help me , wo n't you ? ''
`` I 'll try , Walter , '' she say .
`` Oh , I will try . ''
As she cling to him with her face press against his shoulder she know that it have to be .
She accept the fact then and there .
He must go -- her beautiful Walter with his beautiful soul and dream and ideal .
And she have know all along that it would come sooner or later .
She have see it come to her -- come -- come -- a one see the shadow of a cloud draw near over a sunny field , swiftly and inescapably .
Amid all her pain she be conscious of an odd feeling of relief in some hidden part of her soul , where a little dull , unacknowledged soreness have be lurk all winter .
No one -- no one could ever call Walter a slacker now .
Rilla do not sleep that night .
Perhaps no one at Ingleside do except Jims .
The body grow slowly and steadily , but the soul grows by leap and bound .
It may come to it full stature in an hour .
From that night Rilla Blythe 's soul be the soul of a woman in it capacity for suffering , for strength , for endurance .
When the bitter dawn come she rise and go to her window .
Below her be a big apple-tree , a great swell cone of rosy blossom .
Walter have plant it year ago when he be a little boy .
Beyond Rainbow Valley there be a cloudy shore of morning with little ripple of sunrise breaking over it .
The far , cold beauty of a linger star shone above it .
Why , in this world of springtime loveliness , must hearts break ?
Rilla felt arm go about her lovingly , protectingly .
It be mother -- pale , large-eyed mother .
`` Oh , mother , how can you bear it ? ''
she cry wildly .
`` Rilla , dear , I 've know for several day that Walter mean to go .
I 've have time to -- to rebel and grow reconcile .
We must give him up .
There be a Call great and more insistent than the call of our love -- he have listen to it .
We must not add to the bitterness of his sacrifice . ''
`` Our sacrifice be great than his , '' cry Rilla passionately .
`` Our boy give only themselves .
We give them . ''
Before Mrs. Blythe could reply Susan stick her head in at the door , never trouble over such frill of etiquette a knocking .
Her eye be suspiciously red but all she say be , `` Will I bring up your breakfast , Mrs. Dr. dear . ''
`` No , no , Susan .
We will all be down presently .
Do you know -- that Walter have join up . ''
`` Yes , Mrs. Dr. dear .
The doctor tell me last night .
I suppose the Almighty have His own reason for allow such thing .
We must submit and endeavour to look on the bright side .
It may cure him of be a poet , at least '' -- Susan still persist in thinking that poet and tramp be tar with the same brush -- `` and that would be something .
But thank God , '' she mutter in a low tone , `` that Shirley be not old enough to go . ''
`` Is n't that the same thing a thank Him that some other woman 's son have to go in Shirley 's place ? ''
ask the doctor , pause on the threshold .
`` No , it be not , doctor dear , '' say Susan defiantly , a she pick up Jims , who be open his big dark eye and stretch up his dimpled paw .
`` Do not you put word in my mouth that I would never dream of uttering .
I be a plain woman and can not argue with you , but I do not thank God that anybody have to go .
I only know that it seem they do have to go , unless we all want to be Kaiserised -- for I can assure you that the Monroe doctrine , whatever it be , be nothing to tie to , with Woodrow Wilson behind it .
The Huns , Dr. dear , will never be bring to brook by note .
And now , '' conclude Susan , tuck Jims in the crook of her gaunt arm and march downstairs , `` have cry my cry and say my say I shall take a brace , and if I can not look pleasant I will look as pleasant a I can . ''
CHAPTER XV UNTIL THE DAY BREAK `` The Germans have recapture Premysl , '' say Susan despairingly , look up from her newspaper , `` and now I suppose we will have to begin call it by that uncivilised name again .
Cousin Sophia be in when the mail come and when she hear the news she heave a sigh up from the depth of her stomach , Mrs. Dr. dear , and say , ` Ah yes , and they will get Petrograd next I have no doubt . '
I say to her , ` My knowledge of geography be not so profound a I wish it be but I have an idea that it be quite a walk from Premysl to Petrograd . '
Cousin Sophia sigh again and say , ` The Grand Duke Nicholas be not the man I take him to be . '
` Do not let him know that , ' say I . ` It might hurt his feeling and he have likely enough to worry him a it be .
But you can not cheer Cousin Sophia up , no matter how sarcastic you be , Mrs. Dr. dear .
She sigh for the third time and groan out , ` But the Russians be retreat fast , ' and I say , ` Well , what of it ?
They have plenty of room for retreat , have they not ? '
But all the same , Mrs. Dr. dear , though I would never admit it to Cousin Sophia , I do not like the situation on the eastern front . ''
Nobody else like it either ; but all summer the Russian retreat go on -- a long-drawn-out agony .
`` I wonder if I shall ever again be able to await the come of the mail with feeling of composure -- never to speak of pleasure , '' say Gertrude Oliver .
`` The thought that haunt me night and day be -- will the Germans smash Russia completely and then hurl their eastern army , flush with victory , against the western front ? ''
`` They will not , Miss Oliver dear , '' say Susan , assume the role of prophetess .
`` In the first place , the Almighty will not allow it , in the second , Grand Duke Nicholas , though he may have be a disappointment to u in some respect , know how to run away decently and in order , and that be a very useful knowledge when Germans be chase you .
Norman Douglas declare he be just lure them on and kill ten of them to one he lose .
But I be of the opinion he can not help himself and be just do the best he can under the circumstance , the same a the rest of u .
So do not go so far afield to borrow trouble , Miss Oliver dear , when there be plenty of it already camp on our very doorstep . ''
Walter have go to Kingsport the first of June .
Nan , Di and Faith have go also to do Red Cross work in their vacation .
In mid-July Walter come home for a week 's leave before go overseas .
Rilla have live through the day of his absence on the hope of that week , and now that it have come she drink every minute of it thirstily , hat even the hour she have to spend in sleep , they seem such a waste of precious moment .
In spite of it sadness , it be a beautiful week , full of poignant , unforgettable hour , when she and Walter have long walk and talk and silence together .
He be all her own and she know that he find strength and comfort in her sympathy and understanding .
It be very wonderful to know she mean so much to him -- the knowledge help her through moment that would otherwise have be unendurable , and give her power to smile -- and even to laugh a little .
When Walter have go she might indulge in the comfort of tear , but not while he be here .
She would not even let herself cry at night , lest her eye should betray her to him in the morning .
On his last evening at home they go together to Rainbow Valley and sit down on the bank of the brook , under the White Lady , where the gay revel of olden day have be hold in the cloudless year .
Rainbow Valley be roof over with a sunset of unusual splendour that night ; a wonderful grey dusk just touch with starlight follow it ; and then come moonshine , hint , hiding , revealing , light up little dell and hollow here , leave others in dark , velvet shadow .
`` When I be ` somewhere in France , ' '' say Walter , look around him with eager eye on all the beauty his soul love , `` I shall remember these still , dewy , moon-drenched place .
The balsam of the fir-trees ; the peace of those white pool of moonshine ; the ` strength of the hill ' -- what a beautiful old Biblical phrase that be .
Rilla !
Look at those old hill around u -- the hill we look up at a child , wonder what lay for u in the great world beyond them .
How calm and strong they be -- how patient and changeless -- like the heart of a good woman .
Rilla-my-Rilla , do you know what you have be to me the past year ?
I want to tell you before I go .
I could not have live through it if it have not be for you , little loving , believe heart . ''
Rilla dare not try to speak .
She slip her hand into Walter 's and press it hard .
`` And when I 'm over there , Rilla , in that hell upon earth which men who have forget God have make , it will be the thought of you that will help me most .
I know you 'll be a plucky and patient a you have show yourself to be this past year -- I 'm not afraid for you .
I know that no matter what happen , you 'll be Rilla-my-Rilla -- no matter what happen . ''
Rilla repress tear and sigh , but she could not repress a little shiver , and Walter know that he have say enough .
After a moment of silence , in which each make an unworded promise to each other , he say , `` Now we wo n't be sober any more .
We 'll look beyond the year -- to the time when the war will be over and Jem and Jerry and I will come marching home and we 'll all be happy again . ''
`` We wo n't be -- happy -- in the same way , '' say Rilla .
`` No , not in the same way .
Nobody whom this war have touch will ever be happy again in quite the same way .
But it will be a good happiness , I think , little sister -- a happiness we 've earn .
We be very happy before the war , be n't we ?
With a home like Ingleside , and a father and mother like ours we could n't help be happy .
But that happiness be a gift from life and love ; it be n't really ours -- life could take it back at any time .
It can never take away the happiness we win for ourselves in the way of duty .
I 've realise that since I go into khaki .
In spite of my occasional funk , when I fall to living over thing beforehand , I 've be happy since that night in May .
Rilla , be awfully good to mother while I 'm away .
It must be a horrible thing to be a mother in this war -- the mother and sister and wife and sweetheart have the hard time .
Rilla , you beautiful little thing , be you anybody 's sweetheart ?
If you be , tell me before I go . ''
`` No , '' say Rilla .
Then , impel by a wish to be absolutely frank with Walter in this talk that might be the last they would ever have , she add , blush wildly in the moonlight , `` but if -- Kenneth Ford -- want me to be -- '' `` I see , '' say Walter .
`` And Ken 's in khaki , too .
Poor little girlie , it 's a bit hard for you all round .
Well , I 'm not leave any girl to break her heart about me -- thank God for that . ''
Rilla glance up at the Manse on the hill .
She could see a light in Una Meredith 's window .
She felt tempted to say something -- then she know she must not .
It be not her secret : and , anyway , she do not know -- she only suspect .
Walter look about him lingeringly and lovingly .
This spot have always be so dear to him .
What fun they all have have here lang syne .
Phantoms of memory seem to pace the dappled path and peep merrily through the swinging bough -- Jem and Jerry , bare-legged , sunburned schoolboy , fishing in the brook and fry trout over the old stone fireplace ; Nan and Di and Faith , in their dimpled , fresh-eyed childish beauty ; Una the sweet and shy , Carl , pore over ant and bug , little slangy , sharp-tongued , good-hearted Mary Vance -- the old Walter that have be himself lie on the grass reading poetry or wander through palace of fancy .
They be all there around him -- he could see them almost as plainly a he saw Rilla -- as plainly a he have once see the Pied Piper pip down the valley in a vanished twilight .
And they say to him , those gay little ghost of other day , `` We be the child of yesterday , Walter -- fight a good fight for the child of to-day and to-morrow . ''
`` Where be you , Walter , '' cry Rilla , laugh a little .
`` Come back -- come back . ''
Walter come back with a long breath .
He stand up and look about him at the beautiful valley of moonlight , a if to impress on his mind and heart every charm it possess -- the great dark plume of the fir against the silvery sky , the stately White Lady , the old magic of the dancing brook , the faithful Tree Lovers , the beckoning , tricksy path .
`` I shall see it so in my dream , '' he say , a he turn away .
They go back to Ingleside .
Mr. and Mrs. Meredith be there , with Gertrude Oliver , who have come from Lowbridge to say good-bye .
Everybody be quite cheerful and bright , but nobody say much about the war be soon over , a they have say when Jem go away .
They do not talk about the war at all -- and they think of nothing else .
At last they gather around the piano and sing the grand old hymn : `` Oh God , our help in age past Our hope for year to come .
Our shelter from the stormy blast And our eternal home . ''
`` We all come back to God in these day of soul-sifting , '' say Gertrude to John Meredith .
`` There have be many day in the past when I do n't believe in God -- not a God -- only a the impersonal Great First Cause of the scientist .
I believe in Him now -- I have to -- there 's nothing else to fall back on but God -- humbly , starkly , unconditionally . '' ''
` Our help in age past ' -- ` the same yesterday , to-day and for ever , ' '' say the minister gently .
`` When we forget God -- He remember u . ''
There be no crowd at the Glen Station the next morning to see Walter off .
It be become a commonplace for a khaki clad boy to board that early morning train after his last leave .
Besides his own , only the Manse folk be there , and Mary Vance .
Mary have send her Miller off the week before , with a determined grin , and now consider herself entitle to give expert opinion on how such parting should be conduct .
`` The main thing be to smile and act a if nothing be happen , '' she inform the Ingleside group .
`` The boy all hate the sob act like poison .
Miller tell me I be n't to come near the station if I could n't keep from bawl .
So I get through with my cry beforehand , and at the last I say to him , ` Good luck , Miller , and if you come back you 'll find I have n't change any , and if you do n't come back I 'll always be proud you go , and in any case do n't fall in love with a French girl . '
Miller swore he would n't , but you never can tell about those fascinating foreign hussy .
Anyhow , the last sight he have of me I be smile to my limit .
Gee , all the rest of the day my face felt a if it have be starch and iron into a smile . ''
In spite of Mary 's advice and example Mrs. Blythe , who have send Jem off with a smile , could not quite manage one for Walter .
But at least no one cry .
Dog Monday come out of his lair in the shipping-shed and sit down close to Walter , thump his tail vigorously on the board of the platform whenever Walter speak to him , and look up with confident eye , a if to say , `` I know you 'll find Jem and bring him back to me . ''
`` So long , old fellow , '' say Carl Meredith cheerfully , when the good-bye have to be say .
`` Tell them over there to keep their spirit up -- I be come along presently . ''
`` Me too , '' say Shirley laconically , proffer a brown paw .
Susan hear him and her face turn very grey .
Una shake hand quietly , look at him with wistful , sorrowful , dark-blue eye .
But then Una 's eye have always be wistful .
Walter bend his handsome black head in it khaki cap and kiss her with the warm , comradely kiss of a brother .
He have never kiss her before , and for a fleeting moment Una 's face betray her , if anyone have notice .
But nobody do ; the conductor be shout `` all aboard '' ; everybody be try to look very cheerful .
Walter turn to Rilla ; she hold his hand and look up at him .
She would not see him again until the day break and the shadow vanish -- and she know not if that daybreak would be on this side of the grave or beyond it .
`` Good-bye , '' she say .
On her lip it lose all the bitterness it have win through the age of parting and bore instead all the sweetness of the old love of all the woman who have ever love and pray for the beloved .
`` Write me often and bring Jims up faithfully , accord to the gospel of Morgan , '' Walter say lightly , have say all his serious thing the night before in Rainbow Valley .
But at the last moment he take her face between his hand and look deep into her gallant eye .
`` God bless you , Rilla-my-Rilla , '' he say softly and tenderly .
After all it be not a hard thing to fight for a land that bore daughter like this .
He stand on the rear platform and wave to them a the train pull out .
Rilla be stand by herself , but Una Meredith come to her and the two girl who love him most stood together and hold each other 's cold hand a the train round the curve of the wooded hill .
Rilla spend an hour in Rainbow Valley that morning about which she never say a word to anyone ; she do not even write in her diary about it ; when it be over she go home and make romper for Jims .
In the evening she go to a Junior Red Cross committee meeting and be severely businesslike .
`` You would never suppose , '' say Irene Howard to Olive Kirk afterwards , `` that Walter have leave for the front only this morning .
But some people really have no depth of feeling .
I often wish I could take thing as lightly a Rilla Blythe . ''
CHAPTER XVI REALISM AND ROMANCE `` Warsaw have fall , '' say Dr. Blythe with a resigned air , a he bring the mail in one warm August day .
Gertrude and Mrs. Blythe look dismally at each other , and Rilla , who be feed Jims a Morganized diet from a carefully sterilize spoon , lay the say spoon down on his tray , utterly regardless of germ , and say , `` Oh , dear me , '' in a tragic a tone a if the news have come a a thunderbolt instead of be a foregone conclusion from the precede week 's dispatch .
They have think they be quite resign to Warsaw 's fall but now they know they have , a always , hop against hope .
`` Now , let u take a brace , '' say Susan .
`` It be not the terrible thing we have be think .
I read a dispatch three column long in the Montreal Herald yesterday that prove that Warsaw be not important from a military point of view at all .
So let u take the military point of view , doctor dear . ''
`` I read that dispatch , too , and it have encourage me immensely , '' say Gertrude .
`` I know then and I know now that it be a lie from begin to end .
But I be in that state of mind where even a lie be a comfort , provide it be a cheerful lie . ''
`` In that case , Miss Oliver dear , the German official report ought to be all you need , '' say Susan sarcastically .
`` I never read them now because they make me so mad I can not put my thought properly on my work after a dose of them .
Even this news about Warsaw have take the edge off my afternoon 's plan .
Misfortunes never come singly .
I spoil my baking of bread today -- and now Warsaw have fall -- and here be little Kitchener bent on choke himself to death . ''
Jims be evidently try to swallow his spoon , germ and all .
Rilla rescue him mechanically and be about to resume the operation of feed him when a casual remark of her father 's sent such a shock and thrill over her that for the second time she drop that doomed spoon .
`` Kenneth Ford be down at Martin West 's over-harbour , '' the doctor be say .
`` His regiment be on it way to the front but be hold up in Kingsport for some reason , and Ken get leave of absence to come over to the Island . ''
`` I hope he will come up to see u , '' exclaim Mrs. Blythe .
`` He only have a day or two off , I believe , '' say the doctor absently .
Nobody notice Rilla 's flushed face and tremble hand .
Even the most thoughtful and watchful of parent do not see everything that go on under their very nose .
Rilla make a third attempt to give the long-suffering Jims his dinner , but all she could think of be the question -- Would Ken come to see her before he go away ?
She have not hear from him for a long while .
Had he forget her completely ?
If he do not come she would know that he have .
Perhaps there be even -- some other girl back there in Toronto .
Of course there be .
She be a little fool to be think about him at all .
She would not think about him .
If he come , well and good .
It would only be courteous of him to make a farewell call at Ingleside where he have often be a guest .
If he do not come -- well and good , too .
It do not matter very much .
Nobody be go to fret .
That be all settle comfortably -- she be quite indifferent -- but meanwhile Jims be be feed with a haste and recklessness that would have fill the soul of Morgan with horror .
Jims himself do n't like it , be a methodical baby , accustom to swallow spoonful with a decent interval for breath between each .
He protest , but his protest avail him nothing .
Rilla , as far a the care and feeding of infant be concerned , be utterly demoralize .
Then the telephone-bell rang .
There be nothing unusual about the telephone ringing .
It ring on an average every ten minute at Ingleside .
But Rilla drop Jims ' spoon again -- on the carpet this time -- and fly to the ` phone a if life depend on her get there before anybody else .
Jims , his patience exhaust , lift up his voice and wept .
`` Hello , be this Ingleside ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` That you , Rilla ? ''
`` Yeth -- yeth . ''
Oh , why could n't Jims stop howl for just one little minute ?
Why do n't somebody come in and choke him ?
`` Know who 's speak ? ''
Oh , do n't she know !
Would n't she know that voice anywhere -- at any time ?
`` It 's Ken -- be n't it ? ''
`` Sure thing .
I 'm here for a look-in .
Can I come up to Ingleside tonight and see you ? ''
`` Of courthe . ''
Had he use `` you '' in the singular or plural sense ?
Presently she would wring Jims ' neck -- oh , what be Ken say ?
`` See here , Rilla , can you arrange that there wo n't be more than a few dozen people round ?
Understand ?
I ca n't make my meaning clearer over this bally rural line .
There be a dozen receiver down . ''
Did she understand !
Yes , she understand .
`` I 'll try , '' she say .
`` I 'll be up about eight then .
By-by . ''
Rilla hang up the ` phone and fly to Jims .
But she do not wring that injured infant 's neck .
Instead she snatch him bodily out of his chair , crush him against her face , kiss him rapturously on his milky mouth , and dance wildly around the room with him in her arm .
After this Jims be relieve to find that she return to sanity , give him the rest of his dinner properly , and tuck him away for his afternoon nap with the little lullaby he love best of all .
She sew at Red Cross shirt for the rest of the afternoon and build a crystal castle of dream , all a-quiver with rainbow .
Ken want to see her -- to see her alone .
That could be easily manage .
Shirley would n't bother them , father and mother be go to the Manse , Miss Oliver never play gooseberry , and Jims always sleep the clock round from seven to seven .
She would entertain Ken on the veranda -- it would be moonlight -- she would wear her white georgette dress and do her hair up -- yes , she would -- at least in a low knot at the nape of her neck .
Mother could n't object to that , surely .
Oh , how wonderful and romantic it would be !
Would Ken say anything -- he must mean to say something or why should he be so particular about see her alone ?
What if it rain -- Susan have be complain about Mr. Hyde that morning !
What if some officious Junior Red call to discuss Belgians and shirt ?
Or , bad of all , what if Fred Arnold drop in ?
He do occasionally .
The evening come at last and be all that could be desire in an evening .
The doctor and his wife go to the Manse , Shirley and Miss Oliver go they alone know where , Susan go to the store for household supply , and Jims go to Dreamland .
Rilla put on her georgette gown , knot up her hair and bind a little double string of pearl around it .
Then she tuck a cluster of pale pink baby rose at her belt .
Would Ken ask her for a rise for a keepsake ?
She know that Jem have carry to the trench in Flanders a fade rise that Faith Meredith have kiss and give him the night before he leave .
Rilla look very sweet when she meet Ken in the mingled moonlight and vine shadow of the big veranda .
The hand she give him be cold and she be so desperately anxious not to lisp that her greeting be prim and precise .
How handsome and tall Kenneth look in his lieutenant 's uniform !
It make him seem old , too -- so much so that Rilla felt rather foolish .
Had n't it be the height of absurdity for her to suppose that this splendid young officer have anything special to say to her , little Rilla Blythe of Glen St. Mary ?
Likely she have n't understood him after all -- he have only meant that he do n't want a mob of folk around make a fuss over him and try to lionize him , a they have probably do over-harbour .
Yes , of course , that be all he mean -- and she , little idiot , have go and vainly imagine that he do n't want anybody but her .
And he would think she have manoeuvre everybody away so that they could be alone together , and he would laugh to himself at her .
`` This be good luck than I hop for , '' say Ken , lean back in his chair and look at her with very unconcealed admiration in his eloquent eye .
`` I be sure someone would be hang about and it be just you I want to see , Rilla-my-Rilla . ''
Rilla 's dream castle flash into the landscape again .
This be unmistakable enough certainly -- not much doubt a to his meaning here .
`` There be n't -- so many of u -- to poke around a there use to be , '' she say softly .
`` No , that 's so , '' say Ken gently .
`` Jem and Walter and the girl away -- it make a big blank , do n't it ?
But -- '' he lean forward until his dark curl almost brush her hair -- `` do n't Fred Arnold try to fill the blank occasionally .
I 've be tell so . ''
At this moment , before Rilla could make any reply , Jims begin to cry at the top of his voice in the room whose open window be just above them -- Jims , who hardly ever cry in the evening .
Moreover , he be cry , a Rilla know from experience , with a vim and energy that betoken that he have be already whimper softly unheard for some time and be thoroughly exasperate .
When Jims start in cry like that he make a thorough job of it .
Rilla know that there be no use to sit still and pretend to ignore him .
He would n't stop ; and conversation of any kind be out of the question when such shriek and howl be float over your head .
Besides , she be afraid Kenneth would think she be utterly unfeeling if she sit still and let a baby cry like that .
He be not likely acquaint with Morgan 's invaluable volume .
She get up .
`` Jims have have a nightmare , I think .
He sometimes have one and he be always badly frighten by it .
Excuse me for a moment . ''
Rilla fly upstairs , wish quite frankly that soup tureen have never be invent .
But when Jims , at sight of her , lift his little arm entreatingly and swallow several sob , with tear roll down his cheek , resentment go out of her heart .
After all , the poor darling be frighten .
She pick him up gently and rock him soothingly until his sob cease and his eye close .
Then she essay to lay him down in his crib .
Jims open his eye and shriek a protest .
This performance be repeat twice .
Rilla grow desperate .
She could n't leave Ken down there alone any long -- she have be away nearly half an hour already .
With a resigned air she march downstairs , carry Jims , and sit down on the veranda .
It be , no doubt , a ridiculous thing to sit and cuddle a contrary war-baby when your best young man be make his farewell call , but there be nothing else to be do .
Jims be supremely happy .
He kick his little pink-soled foot rapturously out under his white nighty and give one of his rare laugh .
He be begin to be a very pretty baby ; his golden hair curl in silken ringlet all over his little round head and his eye be beautiful .
`` He 's a decorative kiddy all right , be n't he ? ''
say Ken .
`` His look be very well , '' say Rilla , bitterly , a if to imply that they be much the best of him .
Jims , be an astute infant , sense trouble in the atmosphere and realize that it be up to him to clear it away .
He turn his face up to Rilla , smile adorably and say , clearly and beguilingly , `` Will -- Will . ''
It be the very first time he have speak a word or try to speak .
Rilla be so delighted that she forget her grudge against him .
She forgive him with a hug and kiss .
Jims , understand that he be restore to favour , cuddle down against her just where a gleam of light from the lamp in the living-room struck across his hair and turn it into a halo of gold against her breast .
Kenneth sit very still and silent , look at Rilla -- at the delicate , girlish silhouette of her , her long lash , her dent lip , her adorable chin .
In the dim moonlight , a she sit with her head bent a little over Jims , the lamplight glint on her pearl until they glisten like a slender nimbus , he think she look exactly like the Madonna that hang over his mother 's desk at home .
He carry that picture of her in his heart to the horror of the battlefield of France .
He have have a strong fancy for Rilla Blythe ever since the night of the Four Winds dance ; but it be when he saw her there , with little Jims in her arm , that he love her and realize it .
And all the while , poor Rilla be sit , disappointed and humiliate , feel that her last evening with Ken be spoil and wonder why thing always have to go so contrarily outside of book .
She felt too absurd to try to talk .
Evidently Ken be completely disgusted , too , since he be sit there in such stony silence .
Hope revive momentarily when Jims go so thoroughly asleep that she think it would be safe to lay him down on the couch in the living-room .
But when she come out again Susan be sit on the veranda , loosen her bonnet string with the air of one who mean to stay where she be for some time .
`` Have you get your baby to sleep ? ''
she ask kindly .
Your baby !
Really , Susan might have more tact .
`` Yes , '' say Rilla shortly .
Susan lay her parcel on the reed table , a one determine to do her duty .
She be very tired but she must help Rilla out .
Here be Kenneth Ford who have come to call on the family and they be all unfortunately out , and `` the poor child '' have have to entertain him alone .
But Susan have come to her rescue -- Susan would do her part no matter how tired she be .
`` Dear me , how you have grow up , '' she say , look at Ken 's six foot of khaki uniform without the least awe .
Susan have grow use to khaki now , and at sixty-four even a lieutenant 's uniform be just clothes and nothing else .
`` It be an amazing thing how fast child do grow up .
Rilla here , now , be almost fifteen . ''
`` I 'm go on seventeen , Susan , '' cry Rilla almost passionately .
She be a whole month past sixteen .
It be intolerable of Susan .
`` It seem just the other day that you be all baby , '' say Susan , ignore Rilla 's protest .
`` You be really the pretty baby I ever saw , Ken , though your mother have an awful time try to cure you of suck your thumb .
Do you remember the day I spank you ? ''
`` No , '' say Ken .
`` Oh well , I suppose you would be too young -- you be only about four and you be here with your mother and you insist on tease Nan until she cry .
I have try several way of stop you but none avail , and I saw that a spanking be the only thing that would serve .
So I pick you up and laid you across my knee and lambast you well .
You howl at the top of your voice but you leave Nan alone after that . ''
Rilla be writhe .
Had n't Susan any realization that she be address an officer of the Canadian Army ?
Apparently she have not .
Oh , what would Ken think ?
`` I suppose you do not remember the time your mother spank you either , '' continue Susan , who seem to be bend on revive tender reminiscence that evening .
`` I shall never , no never , forget it .
She be up here one night with you when you be about three , and you and Walter be play out in the kitchen yard with a kitten .
I have a big puncheon of rainwater by the spout which I be reserve for make soap .
And you and Walter begin quarrel over the kitten .
Walter be at one side of the puncheon stand on a chair , hold the kitten , and you be stand on a chair at the other side .
You lean across that puncheon and grab the kitten and pull .
You be always a great hand for take what you want without too much ceremony .
Walter hold on tight and the poor kitten yell but you drag Walter and the kitten half over and then you both lost your balance and tumble into that puncheon , kitten and all .
If I have not be on the spot you would both have be drown .
I fly to the rescue and haul you all three out before much harm be do , and your mother , who have see it all from the upstairs window , come down and pick you up , drip a you be , and give you a beautiful spanking .
Ah , '' say Susan with a sigh , `` those be happy old day at Ingleside . ''
`` Must have be , '' say Ken .
His voice sound queer and stiff .
Rilla suppose he be hopelessly enrage .
The truth be he dare not trust his voice lest it betray his frantic desire to laugh .
`` Rilla here , now , '' say Susan , look affectionately at that unhappy damsel , `` never be much spank .
She be a real well-behaved child for the most part .
But her father do spank her once .
She get two bottle of pill out of his office and dared Alice Clow to see which of them could swallow all the pill first , and if her father have not happen in the nick of time those two child would have be corps by night .
As it be , they be both sick enough shortly after .
But the doctor spank Rilla then and there and he make such a thorough job of it that she never meddle with anything in his office afterwards .
We hear a great deal nowadays of something that be call ` moral persuasion , ' but in my opinion a good spanking and no nagging afterwards be a much well thing . ''
Rilla wonder viciously whether Susan mean to relate all the family spanking .
But Susan have finish with the subject and branch off to another cheerful one .
`` I remember little Tod MacAllister over-harbour kill himself that very way , eat up a whole box of fruitatives because he think they be candy .
It be a very sad affair .
He be , '' say Susan earnestly , `` the very cut little corpse I ever lay my eye on .
It be very careless of his mother to leave the fruitatives where he could get them , but she be well-known to be a heedless creature .
One day she find a nest of five egg a she be go across the field to church with a brand new blue silk dress on .
So she put them in the pocket of her petticoat and when she get to church she forget all about them and sit down on them and her dress be ruin , not to speak of the petticoat .
Let me see -- would not Tod be some relation of yours ?
Your great grandmother West be a MacAllister .
Her brother Amos be a MacDonaldite in religion .
I be told he use to take the jerk something fearful .
But you look more like your great grandfather West than the MacAllisters .
He die of a paralytic stroke quite early in life . ''
`` Did you see anybody at the store ? ''
ask Rilla desperately , in the faint hope of direct Susan 's conversation into more agreeable channel .
`` Nobody except Mary Vance , '' say Susan , `` and she be step round as brisk a the Irishman 's flea . ''
What terrible simile Susan use !
Would Kenneth think she acquire them from the family !
`` To hear Mary talk about Miller Douglas you would think he be the only Glen boy who have enlist , '' Susan go on .
`` But of course she always do brag and she have some good quality I be willing to admit , though I do not think so that time she chase Rilla here through the village with a dried codfish till the poor child fell , heel over head , into the puddle before Carter Flagg 's store . ''
Rilla go cold all over with wrath and shame .
Were there any more disgraceful scene in her past that Susan could rake up ?
As for Ken , he could have howl over Susan 's speech , but he would not so insult the duenna of his lady , so he sit with a preternaturally solemn face which seem to poor Rilla a haughty and offend one .
`` I pay eleven cent for a bottle of ink tonight , '' complain Susan .
`` Ink be twice as high a it be last year .
Perhaps it be because Woodrow Wilson have be write so many note .
It must cost him considerable .
My cousin Sophia say Woodrow Wilson be not the man she expect him to be -- but then no man ever be .
Being an old maid , I do not know much about men and have never pretend to , but my cousin Sophia be very hard on them , although she marry two of them , which you might think be a fair share .
Albert Crawford 's chimney blow down in that big gale we have last week , and when Sophia hear the brick clatter on the roof she think it be a Zeppelin raid and go into hysteric .
And Mrs. Albert Crawford say that of the two thing she would have prefer the Zeppelin raid . ''
Rilla sit limply in her chair like one hypnotized .
She know Susan would stop talk when she be ready to stop and that no earthly power could make her stop any sooner .
As a rule , she be very fond of Susan but just now she hat her with a deadly hatred .
It be ten o'clock .
Ken would soon have to go -- the others would soon be home -- and she have not even have a chance to explain to Ken that Fred Arnold fill no blank in her life nor ever could .
Her rainbow castle lay in ruin round her .
Kenneth get up at last .
He realize that Susan be there to stay as long a he do , and it be a three mile walk to Martin West 's over-harbour .
He wonder if Rilla have put Susan up to this , not want to be leave alone with him , lest he say something Fred Arnold 's sweetheart do not want to hear .
Rilla get up , too , and walk silently the length of the veranda with him .
They stand there for a moment , Ken on the low step .
The step be half sunk into the earth and mint grow thickly about and over it edge .
Often crush by so many pass foot it give out it essence freely , and the spicy odour hung round them like a soundless , invisible benediction .
Ken look up at Rilla , whose hair be shin in the moonlight and whose eye be pool of allurement .
All at once he felt sure there be nothing in that gossip about Fred Arnold .
`` Rilla , '' he say in a sudden , intense whisper , `` you be the sweet thing . ''
Rilla flush and look at Susan .
Ken look , too , and saw that Susan 's back be turn .
He put his arm about Rilla and kiss her .
It be the first time Rilla have ever be kiss .
She think perhaps she ought to resent it but she do n't .
Instead , she glance timidly into Kenneth 's seek eye and her glance be a kiss .
`` Rilla-my-Rilla , '' say Ken , `` will you promise that you wo n't let anyone else kiss you until I come back ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Rilla , tremble and thrill .
Susan be turn round .
Ken loosen his hold and step to the walk .
`` Good-bye , '' he say casually .
Rilla hear herself say it just a casually .
She stand and watch him down the walk , out of the gate , and down the road .
When the fir wood hide him from her sight she suddenly say `` Oh , '' in a choked way and run down to the gate , sweet blossomy thing catch at her skirt a she run .
Leaning over the gate she saw Kenneth walk briskly down the road , over the bar of tree shadow and moonlight , his tall , erect figure grey in the white radiance .
As he reach the turn he stop and look back and saw her standing amid the tall white lily by the gate .
He wave his hand -- she wave hers -- he be go around the turn .
Rilla stood there for a little while , gaze across the field of mist and silver .
She have hear her mother say that she love turn in road -- they be so provocative and allure .
Rilla think she hat them .
She have see Jem and Jerry vanish from her around a bend in the road -- then Walter -- and now Ken .
Brothers and playmate and sweetheart -- they be all go , never , it might be , to return .
Yet still the Piper pip and the dance of death go on .
When Rilla walk slowly back to the house Susan be still sit by the veranda table and Susan be sniff suspiciously .
`` I have be think , Rilla dear , of the old day in the House of Dreams , when Kenneth 's mother and father be court and Jem be a little baby and you be not bear or think of .
It be a very romantic affair and she and your mother be such chum .
To think I should have live to see her son go to the front .
As if she have not have enough trouble in her early life without this come upon her !
But we must take a brace and see it through . ''
All Rilla 's anger against Susan have evaporate .
With Ken 's kiss still burn on her lip , and the wonderful significance of the promise he have ask thrilling heart and soul , she could not be angry with anyone .
She put her slim white hand into Susan 's brown , work-hardened one and give it a squeeze .
Susan be a faithful old dear and would lay down her life for any one of them .
`` You be tire , Rilla dear , and have good go to bed , '' Susan say , pat her hand .
`` I notice you be too tire to talk tonight .
I be glad I come home in time to help you out .
It be very tiresome try to entertain young men when you be not accustom to it . ''
Rilla carry Jims upstairs and go to bed , but not before she have sit for a long time at her window reconstruct her rainbow castle , with several add dome and turret .
`` I wonder , '' she say to herself , `` if I be , or be not , engage to Kenneth Ford . ''
CHAPTER XVII THE WEEKS WEAR BY Rilla read her first love letter in her Rainbow Valley fir-shadowed nook , and a girl 's first love letter , whatever blase , old people may think of it , be an event of tremendous importance in the teen .
After Kenneth 's regiment have leave Kingsport there come a fortnight of dully-aching anxiety and when the congregation sang in Church on Sunday evening , `` Oh , hear u when we cry to Thee For those in peril on the sea , '' Rilla 's voice always fail her ; for with the word come a horribly vivid mind picture of a submarined ship sink beneath pitiless wave amid the struggle and cry of drown men .
Then word come that Kenneth 's regiment have arrive safely in England ; and now , at last , here be his letter .
It begin with something that make Rilla supremely happy for the moment and end with a paragraph that crimson her cheek with the wonder and thrill and delight of it .
Between begin and end the letter be just such a jolly , newsy epistle a Ken might have write to anyone ; but for the sake of that beginning and end Rilla slept with the letter under her pillow for week , sometimes wake in the night to slip her finger under and just touch it , and look with secret pity on other girl whose sweetheart could never have write them anything half so wonderful and exquisite .
Kenneth be not the son of a famous novelist for nothing .
He `` have a way '' of express thing in a few poignant , significant word that seem to suggest far more than they utter , and never grow stale or flat or foolish with ever so many score of reading .
Rilla go home from Rainbow Valley a if she fly rather than walk .
But such moment of uplift be rare that autumn .
To be sure , there be one day in September when great news come of a big Allied victory in the west and Susan run out to hoist the flag -- the first time she have hoist it since the Russian line break and the last time she be to hoist it for many dismal moon .
`` Likely the Big Push have begin at last , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' she exclaim , `` and we will soon see the finish of the Huns .
Our boy will be home by Christmas now .
Hurrah ! ''
Susan be ashamed of herself for hurrah the minute she have do it , and apologize meekly for such an outburst of juvenility .
`` But indeed , Mrs. Dr. dear , this good news have go to my head after this awful summer of Russian slump and Gallipoli setback . ''
`` Good news ! ''
say Miss Oliver bitterly .
`` I wonder if the woman whose men have be kill for it will call it good news .
Just because our own men be not on that part of the front we be rejoice a if the victory have cost no life . ''
`` Now , Miss Oliver dear , do not take that view of it , '' deprecate Susan .
`` We have not have much to rejoice over of late and yet men be be kill just the same .
Do not let yourself slump like poor Cousin Sophia .
She say , when the word come , ` Ah , it be nothing but a rift in the cloud .
We be up this week but we will be down the next . '
` Well , Sophia Crawford , ' say I , -- for I will never give in to her , Mrs. Dr. dear -- ` God himself can not make two hill without a hollow between them , a I have hear it say , but that be no reason why we should not take the good of the hill when we be on them . '
But Cousin Sophia moan on .
` Here be the Gallipolly expedition a failure and the Grand Duke Nicholas send off , and everyone know the Czar of Rooshia be a pro-German and the Allies have no ammunition and Bulgaria be go against u .
And the end be not yet , for England and France must be punish for their deadly sin until they repent in sackcloth and ash . ' '
I think myself , ' I say , ` that they will do their repenting in khaki and trench mud , and it seem to me that the Huns should have a few sin to repent of also . '
` They be instrument in the hand of the Almighty , to purge the garner , ' say Sophia .
And then I get mad , Mrs. Dr. dear , and tell her I do not and never would believe that the Almighty ever take such dirty instrument in hand for any purpose whatever , and that I do not consider it decent for her to be use the word of Holy Writ as glibly a she be do in ordinary conversation .
She be not , I tell her , a minister or even an elder .
And for the time be I squelch her , Mrs. Dr. dear .
Cousin Sophia have no spirit .
She be very different from her niece , Mrs. Dean Crawford over-harbour .
You know the Dean Crawfords have five boy and now the new baby be another boy .
All the connection and especially Dean Crawford be much disappoint because their heart have be set on a girl ; but Mrs. Dean just laugh and say , ` Everywhere I go this summer I saw the sign `` MEN WANTED '' star me in the face .
Do you think I could go and have a girl under such circumstance ? '
There be spirit for you , Mrs. Dr. dear .
But Cousin Sophia would say the child be just so much more cannon fodder . ''
Cousin Sophia have full range for her pessimism that gloomy autumn , and even Susan , incorrigible old optimist a she be , be hard put to it for cheer .
When Bulgaria line up with Germany Susan only remark scornfully , `` One more nation anxious for a licking , '' but the Greek tangle worry her beyond her power of philosophy to endure calmly .
`` Constantine of Greece have a German wife , Mrs. Dr. dear , and that fact squelch hope .
To think that I should have live to care what kind of a wife Constantine of Greece have !
The miserable creature be under his wife 's thumb and that be a bad place for any man to be .
I be an old maid and an old maid have to be independent or she will be squash out .
But if I have be a married woman , Mrs. Dr. dear , I would have be meek and humble .
It be my opinion that this Sophia of Greece be a minx . ''
Susan be furious when the news come that Venizelos have meet with defeat .
`` I could spank Constantine and skin him alive afterwards , that I could , '' she exclaim bitterly .
`` Oh , Susan , I 'm surprised at you , '' say the doctor , pull a long face .
`` Have you no regard for the propriety ?
Skin him alive by all mean but omit the spanking . ''
`` If he have be well spank in his younger day he might have more sense now , '' retort Susan .
`` But I suppose prince be never spank , more be the pity .
I see the Allies have send him an ultimatum .
I could tell them that it will take more than ultimatum to skin a snake like Constantine .
Perhaps the Allied blockade will hammer sense into his head ; but that will take some time I be think , and in the meantime what be to become of poor Serbia ? ''
They saw what become of Serbia , and during the process Susan be hardly to be live with .
In her exasperation she abuse everything and everybody except Kitchener , and she fell upon poor President Wilson tooth and claw .
`` If he have do his duty and go into the war long ago we should not have see this mess in Serbia , '' she avow .
`` It would be a serious thing to plunge a great country like the United States , with it mixed population , into the war , Susan , '' say the doctor , who sometimes come to the defence of the President , not because he think Wilson need it especially , but from an unholy love of bait Susan .
`` Maybe , doctor dear -- maybe !
But that make me think of the old story of the girl who tell her grandmother she be go to be marry .
` It be a solemn thing to be marry , ' say the old lady .
` Yes , but it be a solemn thing not to be , ' say the girl .
And I can testify to that out of my own experience , doctor dear .
And I think it be a solemn thing for the Yankees that they have keep out of the war than it would have be if they have go into it .
However , though I do not know much about them , I be of the opinion that we will see them start something yet , Woodrow Wilson or no Woodrow Wilson , when they get it into their head that this war be not a correspondence school .
They will not , '' say Susan , energetically wave a saucepan with one hand and a soup ladle with the other , `` be too proud to fight then . ''
On a pale-yellow , windy evening in October Carl Meredith go away .
He have enlist on his eighteenth birthday .
John Meredith saw him off with a set face .
His two boy be go -- there be only little Bruce leave now .
He love Bruce and Bruce 's mother dearly ; but Jerry and Carl be the son of the bride of his youth and Carl be the only one of all his child who have Cecilia 's very eye .
As they look lovingly out at him above Carl 's uniform the pale minister suddenly remember the day when for the first and last time he have try to whip Carl for his prank with the eel .
That be the first time he have realise how much Carl 's eye be like Cecilia 's .
Now he realise it again once more .
Would he ever again see his dead wife 's eye look at him from his son 's face ?
What a bonny , clean , handsome lad he be !
It be -- hard -- to see him go .
John Meredith seem to be look at a torn plain strew with the body of `` able-bodied men between the age of eighteen and forty-five . ''
Only the other day Carl have be a little scrap of a boy , hunt bug in Rainbow Valley , take lizard to bed with him , and scandalize the Glen by carry frog to Sunday School .
It seem hardly -- right -- somehow that he should be an `` able-bodied man '' in khaki .
Yet John Meredith have say no word to dissuade him when Carl have tell him he must go .
Rilla felt Carl 's go keenly .
They have always be crony and playmate .
He be only a little old than she be and they have be child in Rainbow Valley together .
She recall all their old prank and escapade a she walk slowly home alone .
The full moon peep through the scudding cloud with sudden flood of weird illumination , the telephone wire sing a shrill weird song in the wind , and the tall spike of withered , grey-headed golden-rod in the fence corner sway and beckon wildly to her like group of old witch weave unholy spell .
On such a night a this , long ago , Carl would come over to Ingleside and whistle her out to the gate .
`` Let 's go on a moon-spree , Rilla , '' he would say , and the two of them would scamper off to Rainbow Valley .
Rilla have never be afraid of his beetle and bug , though she draw a hard and fast line at snake .
They use to talk together of almost everything and be tease about each other at school ; but one evening when they be about ten year of age they have solemnly promise , by the old spring in Rainbow Valley , that they would never marry each other .
Alice Clow have `` cross out '' their name on her slate in school that day , and it come out that `` both married . ''
They do not like the idea at all , hence the mutual vow in Rainbow Valley .
There be nothing like an ounce of prevention .
Rilla laugh over the old memory -- and then sigh .
That very day a dispatch from some London paper have contain the cheerful announcement that `` the present moment be the darkest since the war begin . ''
It be dark enough , and Rilla wish desperately that she could do something besides wait and serve at home , a day after day the Glen boys she have know go away .
If she be only a boy , speed in khaki by Carl 's side to the Western front !
She have wish that in a burst of romance when Jem have go , without , perhaps , really mean it .
She mean it now .
There be moment when wait at home , in safety and comfort , seem an unendurable thing .
The moon burst triumphantly through an especially dark cloud and shadow and silver chase each other in wave over the Glen .
Rilla remember one moonlit evening of childhood when she have say to her mother , `` The moon just look like a sorry , sorry face . ''
She think it look like that still -- an agonised , care-worn face , a though it look down on dreadful sight .
What do it see on the Western front ?
In break Serbia ?
On shell-swept Gallipoli ?
`` I be tired , '' Miss Oliver have say that day , in a rare outburst of impatience , `` of this horrible rack of strained emotion , when every day bring a new horror or the dread of it .
No , do n't look reproachfully at me , Mrs. Blythe .
There 's nothing heroic about me today .
I 've slump .
I wish England have leave Belgium to her fate -- I wish Canada have never send a man -- I wish we 'd tie our boy to our apron string and not let one of them go .
Oh -- I shall be ashamed of myself in half an hour -- but at this very minute I mean every word of it .
Will the Allies never strike ? ''
`` Patience be a tired mare but she jog on , '' say Susan .
`` While the steed of Armageddon thunder , trample over our heart , '' retort Miss Oliver .
`` Susan , tell me -- do n't you ever -- do n't you ever -- take spell of feeling that you must scream -- or swear -- or smash something -- just because your torture reach a point when it become unbearable ? ''
`` I have never swear or desire to swear , Miss Oliver dear , but I will admit , '' say Susan , with the air of one determine to make a clean breast of it once and for all , `` that I have experience occasion when it be a relief to do considerable banging . ''
`` Do n't you think that be a kind of swearing , Susan ?
What be the difference between slam a door viciously and say d -- '' `` Miss Oliver dear , '' interrupt Susan , desperately determine to save Gertrude from herself , if human power could do it , `` you be all tire out and unstrung -- and no wonder , teach those obstreperous youngster all day and come home to bad war news .
But just you go upstairs and lie down and I will bring you up a cup of hot tea and a bite of toast and very soon you will not want to slam door or swear . ''
`` Susan , you 're a good soul -- a very pearl of Susans !
But , Susan , it would be such a relief -- to say just one soft , low , little tiny d -- '' `` I will bring you a hot-water bottle for the sol of your foot , also , '' interpose Susan resolutely , `` and it would not be any relief to say that word you be think of , Miss Oliver , and that you may tie to . ''
`` Well , I 'll try the hot-water bottle first , '' say Miss Oliver , repent herself on tease Susan and vanish upstairs , to Susan 's intense relief .
Susan shake her head ominously a she fill the hot-water bottle .
The war be certainly relax the standard of behaviour woefully .
Here be Miss Oliver admittedly on the point of profanity .
`` We must draw the blood from her brain , '' say Susan , `` and if this bottle be not effective I will see what can be do with a mustard plaster . ''
Gertrude rally and carry on .
Lord Kitchener go to Greece , whereat Susan foretell that Constantine would soon experience a change of heart .
Lloyd George begin to heckle the Allies regard equipment and gun and Susan say you would hear more of Lloyd George yet .
The gallant Anzacs withdrew from Gallipoli and Susan approve the step , with reservation .
The siege of Kut-El-Amara begin and Susan pore over map of Mesopotamia and abuse the Turks .
Henry Ford start for Europe and Susan flay him with sarcasm .
Sir John French be supersede by Sir Douglas Haig and Susan dubiously opine that it be poor policy to swap horse cross a stream , `` though , to be sure , Haig be a good name and French have a foreign sound , say what you might . ''
Not a move on the great chess-board of king or bishop or pawn escape Susan , who have once read only Glen St. Mary note .
`` There be a time , '' she say sorrowfully , `` when I do not care what happen outside of P.E . Island , and now a king can not have a toothache in Russia or China but it worry me .
It may be broaden to the mind , a the doctor say , but it be very painful to the feeling . ''
When Christmas come again Susan do not set any vacant place at the festive board .
Two empty chair be too much even for Susan who have think in September that there would not be one .
`` This be the first Christmas that Walter be not home , '' Rilla write in her diary that night .
`` Jem use to be away for Christmases up in Avonlea , but Walter never be .
I have letter from Ken and him today .
They be still in England but expect to be in the trench very soon .
And then -- but I suppose we 'll be able to endure it somehow .
To me , the strange of all the strange thing since 1914 be how we have all learn to accept thing we never think we could -- to go on with life a a matter of course .
I know that Jem and Jerry be in the trench -- that Ken and Walter will be soon -- that if one of them do not come back my heart will break -- yet I go on and work and plan -- yes , and even enjoy life by time .
There be moment when we have real fun because , just for the moment , we do n't think about thing and then -- we remember -- and the remembering be bad than thinking of it all the time would have be .
`` Today be dark and cloudy and tonight be wild enough , a Gertrude say , to please any novelist in search of suitable matter for a murder or elopement .
The raindrop stream over the pane look like tear run down a face , and the wind be shriek through the maple grove .
`` This have n't be a nice Christmas Day in any way .
Nan have toothache and Susan have red eye , and assume a weird and gruesome flippancy of manner to deceive u into think she have n't ; and Jims have a bad cold all day and I 'm afraid of croup .
He have have croup twice since October .
The first time I be nearly frighten to death , for father and mother be both away -- father always be away , it seem to me , when any of this household get sick .
But Susan be cool a a fish and know just what to do , and by morning Jims be all right .
That child be a cross between a duck and an imp .
He 's a year and four month old , trot about everywhere , and say quite a few word .
He have the cut little way of call me `` Willa-will . ''
It always bring back that dreadful , ridiculous , delightful night when Ken come to say good-bye , and I be so furious and happy .
Jims be pink and white and big-eyed and curly-haired and every now and then I discover a new dimple in him .
I can never quite believe he be really the same creature a that scrawny , yellow , ugly little changeling I bring home in the soup tureen .
Nobody have ever hear a word from Jim Anderson .
If he never come back I shall keep Jims always .
Everybody here worship and spoil him -- or would spoil him if Morgan and I do n't stand remorselessly in the way .
Susan say Jims be the cleverest child she ever saw and can recognize Old Nick when he see him -- this because Jims throw poor Doc out of an upstairs window one day .
Doc turn into Mr. Hyde on his way down and land in a currant bush , spit and swearing .
I try to console his inner cat with a saucer of milk but he would have none of it , and remain Mr. Hyde the rest of the day .
Jims 's late exploit be to paint the cushion of the big arm-chair in the sun parlour with molasses ; and before anybody find it out Mrs. Fred Clow come in on Red Cross business and sit down on it .
Her new silk dress be ruin and nobody could blame her for be vex .
But she go into one of her temper and say nasty thing and give me such slam about ` spoil ' Jims that I nearly boil over , too .
But I keep the lid on till she have waddle away and then I explode . ''
` The fat , clumsy , horrid old thing , ' I say -- and oh , what a satisfaction it be to say it . ''
` She have three son at the front , ' mother say rebukingly . '' '
I suppose that cover all her shortcoming in manner , ' I retort .
But I be ashamed -- for it be true that all her boy have go and she be very plucky and loyal about it too ; and she be a perfect tower of strength in the Red Cross .
It 's a little hard to remember all the heroine .
Just the same , it be her second new silk dress in one year and that when everybody be -- or should be -- try to ` save and serve . '
`` I have to bring out my green velvet hat again lately and begin wear it .
I hang on to my blue straw sailor as long a I could .
How I hate the green velvet hat !
It be so elaborate and conspicuous .
I do n't see how I could ever have like it .
But I vow to wear it and wear it I will .
`` Shirley and I go down to the station this morning to take Little Dog Monday a bang-up Christmas dinner .
Dog Monday wait and watch there still , with just a much hope and confidence a ever .
Sometimes he hang around the station house and talk to people and the rest of his time he sit at his little kennel door and watch the track unwinkingly .
We never try to coax him home now : we know it be of no use .
When Jem come back , Monday will come home with him ; and if Jem -- never come back -- Monday will wait there for him as long a his dear dog heart go on beating .
`` Fred Arnold be here last night .
He be eighteen in November and be go to enlist just as soon a his mother be over an operation she have to have .
He have be come here very often lately and though I like him so much it make me uncomfortable , because I be afraid he be think that perhaps I could care something for him .
I ca n't tell him about Ken -- because , after all , what be there to tell ?
And yet I do n't like to behave coldly and distantly when he will be go away so soon .
It be very perplexing .
I remember I use to think it would be such fun to have dozen of beau -- and now I 'm worried to death because two be too many .
`` I be learn to cook .
Susan be teach me .
I try to learn long ago -- but no , let me be honest -- Susan try to teach me , which be a very different thing .
I never seem to succeed with anything and I get discourage .
But since the boy have go away I want to be able to make cake and thing for them myself and so I start in again and this time I 'm get on surprisingly well .
Susan say it be all in the way I hold my mouth and father say my subconscious mind be desirous of learn now , and I dare say they 're both right .
Anyhow , I can make dandy short-bread and fruitcake .
I get ambitious last week and attempted cream puff , but make an awful failure of them .
They come out of the oven flat a fluke .
I think maybe the cream would fill them up again and make them plump but it do n't .
I think Susan be secretly pleased .
She be past mistress in the art of make cream puff and it would break her heart if anyone else here could make them as well .
I wonder if Susan tamper -- but no , I wo n't suspect her of such a thing .
`` Miranda Pryor spend an afternoon here a few day ago , help me cut out certain Red Cross garment know by the charm name of ` vermin shirt . '
Susan think that name be not quite decent , so I suggest she call them ` cootie sarks , ' which be old Highland Sandy 's version of it .
But she shake her head and I hear her tell mother later that , in her opinion , ` cootie ' and ` sarks ' be not proper subject for young girl to talk about .
She be especially horrify when Jem write in his last letter to mother , ` Tell Susan I have a fine cootie hunt this morning and catch fifty-three ! '
Susan positively turn pea-green .
` Mrs. Dr. dear , ' she say , ` when I be young , if decent people be so unfortunate a to get -- those insect -- they keep it a secret if possible .
I do not want to be narrow-minded , Mrs. Dr. dear , but I still think it be well not to mention such thing . '
`` Miranda grow confidential over our vermin shirt and tell me all her trouble .
She be desperately unhappy .
She be engage to Joe Milgrave and Joe join up in October and have be train in Charlottetown ever since .
Her father be furious when he join and forbid Miranda ever to have any dealing or communication with him again .
Poor Joe expect to go overseas any day and want Miranda to marry him before he go , which show that there have be ` communication ' in spite of Whiskers-on-the-moon .
Miranda want to marry him but can not , and she declare it will break her heart . ''
` Why do n't you run away and marry him ? '
I say .
It do n't go against my conscience in the least to give her such advice .
Joe Milgrave be a splendid fellow and Mr. Pryor fairly beam on him until the war break out and I know Mr. Pryor would forgive Miranda very quickly , once it be over and he want his housekeeper back .
But Miranda shake her silvery head dolefully . ''
` Joe want me to but I ca n't .
Mother 's last word to me , a she lay on her dying-bed , be , `` Never , never run away , Miranda , '' and I promise . '
`` Miranda 's mother die two year ago , and it seem , accord to Miranda , that her mother and father actually run away to be marry themselves .
To picture Whiskers-on-the-moon a the hero of an elopement be beyond my power .
But such be the case and Mrs. Pryor at least lived to repent it .
She have a hard life of it with Mr. Pryor , and she think it be a punishment on her for run away .
So she make Miranda promise she would never , for any reason whatever , do it .
`` Of course , you can not urge a girl to break a promise make to a die mother , so I do not see what Miranda could do unless she get Joe to come to the house when her father be away and marry her there .
But Miranda say that could n't be manage .
Her father seem to suspect she might be up to something of the sort and he never go away for long at a time , and , of course , Joe could n't get leave of absence at an hour 's notice . ''
` No , I shall just have to let Joe go , and he will be kill -- I know he will be kill -- and my heart will break , ' say Miranda , her tear run down and copiously bedew the vermin shirt !
`` I be not write like this for lack of any real sympathy with poor Miranda .
I 've just get into the habit of give thing a comical twist if I can , when I 'm write to Jem and Walter and Ken , to make them laugh .
I really felt sorry for Miranda who be as much in love with Joe a a china-blue girl can be with anyone and who be dreadfully ashamed of her father 's pro-German sentiment .
I think she understand that I do , for she say she have want to tell me all about her worry because I have grow so sympathetic this past year .
I wonder if I have .
I know I use to be a selfish , thoughtless creature -- how selfish and thoughtless I be ashamed to remember now , so I ca n't be quite so bad a I be .
`` I wish I could help Miranda .
It would be very romantic to contrive a war-wedding and I should dearly love to get the good of Whiskers-on-the-moon .
But at present the oracle have not speak . ''
CHAPTER XVIII A WAR-WEDDING `` I can tell you this Dr. dear , '' say Susan , pale with wrath , `` that Germany be get to be perfectly ridiculous . ''
They be all in the big Ingleside kitchen .
Susan be mix biscuit for supper .
Mrs. Blythe be make shortbread for Jem , and Rilla be compound candy for Ken and Walter -- it have once be `` Walter and Ken '' in her thought but somehow , quite unconsciously , this have change until Ken 's name come naturally first .
Cousin Sophia be also there , knit .
All the boy be go to be kill in the long run , so Cousin Sophia felt in her bone , but they might better die with warm foot than cold one , so Cousin Sophia knit faithfully and gloomily .
Into this peaceful scene erupt the doctor , wrathful and excite over the burning of the Parliament Buildings in Ottawa .
And Susan become automatically quite a wrathful and excited .
`` What will those Huns do next ? ''
she demand .
`` Coming over here and burn our Parliament building !
Did anyone ever hear of such an outrage ? ''
`` We do n't know that the Germans be responsible for this , '' say the doctor -- much a if he felt quite sure they be .
`` Fires do start without their agency sometimes .
And Uncle Mark MacAllister 's barn be burn last week .
You can hardly accuse the Germans of that , Susan . ''
`` Indeed , Dr. dear , I do not know . ''
Susan nod slowly and portentously .
`` Whiskers-on-the-moon be there that very day .
The fire break out half an hour after he be go .
So much be a fact -- but I shall not accuse a Presbyterian elder of burn anybody 's barn until I have proof .
However , everybody know , Dr. dear , that both Uncle Mark 's boy have enlist , and that Uncle Mark himself make speech at all the recruiting meeting .
So no doubt Germany be anxious to get square with him . ''
`` I could never speak at a recruiting meeting , '' say Cousin Sophia solemnly .
`` I could never reconcile it to my conscience to ask another woman 's son to go , to murder and be murder . ''
`` Could you not ? ''
say Susan .
`` Well , Sophia Crawford , I felt a if I could ask anyone to go when I read last night that there be no child under eight year of age leave alive in Poland .
Think of that , Sophia Crawford '' -- Susan shake a floury finger at Sophia -- `` not -- one -- child -- under -- eight -- year -- of -- age ! ''
`` I suppose the Germans have et 'em all , '' sigh Cousin Sophia .
`` Well , no-o-o , '' say Susan reluctantly , a if she hat to admit that there be any crime the Huns could n't be accuse of .
`` The Germans have not turn cannibal yet -- as far a I know .
They have die of starvation and exposure , the poor little creature .
There be murder for you , Cousin Sophia Crawford .
The thought of it poison every bite and sup I take . ''
`` I see that Fred Carson of Lowbridge have be award a Distinguished Conduct Medal , '' remark the doctor , over his local paper .
`` I hear that last week , '' say Susan .
`` He be a battalion runner and he do something extra brave and dare .
His letter , tell his folk about it , come when his old Grandmother Carson be on her dying-bed .
She have only a few minute more to live and the Episcopal minister , who be there , ask her if she would not like him to pray .
` Oh yes , yes , you can pray , ' she say impatient-like -- she be a Dean , Dr. dear , and the Deans be always high-spirited -- ` you can pray , but for pity 's sake pray low and do n't disturb me .
I want to think over this splendid news and I have not much time leave to do it . '
That be Almira Carson all over .
Fred be the apple of her eye .
She be seventy-five year of age and have not a grey hair in her head , they tell me . ''
`` By the way , that remind me -- I find a grey hair this morning -- my very first , '' say Mrs. Blythe .
`` I have notice that grey hair for some time , Mrs. Dr. dear , but I do not speak of it .
Thought I to myself , ` She have enough to bear . '
But now that you have discover it let me remind you that grey hair be honourable . ''
`` I must be get old , Gilbert . ''
Mrs. Blythe laugh a trifle ruefully .
`` People be begin to tell me I look so young .
They never tell you that when you be young .
But I shall not worry over my silver thread .
I never like red hair .
Gilbert , do I ever tell you of that time , year ago at Green Gables , when I dye my hair ?
Nobody but Marilla and I know about it . ''
`` Was that the reason you come out once with your hair shingle to the bone ? ''
`` Yes .
I buy a bottle of dye from a German Jew pedlar .
I fondly expect it would turn my hair black -- and it turn it green .
So it have to be cut off . ''
`` You have a narrow escape , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' exclaim Susan .
`` Of course you be too young then to know what a German be .
It be a special mercy of Providence that it be only green dye and not poison . ''
`` It seem hundred of year since those Green Gables day , '' sigh Mrs. Blythe .
`` They belong to another world altogether .
Life have be cut in two by the chasm of war .
What be ahead I do n't know -- but it ca n't be a bit like the past .
I wonder if those of u who have live half our life in the old world will ever feel wholly at home in the new . ''
`` Have you notice , '' ask Miss Oliver , glance up from her book , `` how everything write before the war seem so far away now , too ?
One feel a if one be read something as ancient a the Iliad .
This poem of Wordsworth 's -- the Senior class have it in their entrance work -- I 've be glance over it .
Its classic calm and repose and the beauty of the line seem to belong to another planet , and to have as little to do with the present world-welter a the evening star . ''
`` The only thing that I find much comfort in reading nowadays be the Bible , '' remark Susan , whisk her biscuit into the oven .
`` There be so many passage in it that seem to me exactly descriptive of the Huns .
Old Highland Sandy declare that there be no doubt that the Kaiser be the Anti-Christ spoken of in Revelations , but I do not go as far a that .
It would , in my humble opinion , Mrs. Dr. dear , be too great an honour for him . ''
Early one morning , several day later , Miranda Pryor slip up to Ingleside , ostensibly to get some Red Cross sewing , but in reality to talk over with sympathetic Rilla trouble that be past bearing alone .
She bring her dog with her -- an over-fed , bandy-legged little animal very dear to her heart because Joe Milgrave have give it to her when it be a puppy .
Mr. Pryor regard all dog with disfavour ; but in those day he have look kindly upon Joe a a suitor for Miranda 's hand and so he have allow her to keep the puppy .
Miranda be so grateful that she endeavour to please her father by name her dog after his political idol , the great Liberal chieftain , Sir Wilfrid Laurier -- though his title be soon abbreviate to Wilfy .
Sir Wilfrid grow and flourish and waxed fat ; but Miranda spoil him absurdly and nobody else like him .
Rilla especially hat him because of his detestable trick of lie flat on his back and entreating you with wave paw to tickle his sleek stomach .
When she saw that Miranda 's pale eye bore unmistakable testimony of her have cry all night , Rilla ask her to come up to her room , know Miranda have a tale of woe to tell , but she order Sir Wilfrid to remain below .
`` Oh , ca n't he come , too ? ''
say Miranda wistfully .
`` Poor Wilfy wo n't be any bother -- and I wipe his paw so carefully before I bring him in .
He be always so lonesome in a strange place without me -- and very soon he 'll be -- all -- I 'll have leave -- to remind me -- of Joe . ''
Rilla yield , and Sir Wilfrid , with his tail curl at a saucy angle over his brindled back , trot triumphantly up the stair before them .
`` Oh , Rilla , '' sob Miranda , when they have reach sanctuary .
`` I 'm so unhappy .
I ca n't begin to tell you how unhappy I be .
Truly , my heart be break . ''
Rilla sit down on the lounge beside her .
Sir Wilfrid squat on his haunch before them , with his impertinent pink tongue stick out , and listen .
`` What be the trouble , Miranda ? ''
`` Joe be come home tonight on his last leave .
I have a letter from him on Saturday -- he send my letter in care of Bob Crawford , you know , because of father -- and , oh , Rilla , he will only have four day -- he have to go away Friday morning -- and I may never see him again . ''
`` Does he still want you to marry him ? ''
ask Rilla .
`` Oh , yes .
He implore me in his letter to run away and be marry .
But I can not do that , Rilla , not even for Joe .
My only comfort be that I will be able to see him for a little while tomorrow afternoon .
Father have to go to Charlottetown on business .
At least we will have one good farewell talk .
But oh -- afterwards -- why , Rilla , I know father wo n't even let me go to the station Friday morning to see Joe off . ''
`` Why in the world do n't you and Joe get marry tomorrow afternoon at home ? ''
demand Rilla .
Miranda swallow a sob in such amazement that she almost choke .
`` Why -- why -- that be impossible , Rilla . ''
`` Why ? ''
briefly demand the organizer of the Junior Red Cross and the transporter of baby in soup tureen .
`` Why -- why -- we never think of such a thing -- Joe have n't a license -- I have no dress -- I could n't be marry in black -- I -- I -- we -- you -- you -- '' Miranda lose herself altogether and Sir Wilfrid , see that she be in dire distress throw back his head and emit a melancholy yelp .
Rilla Blythe think hard and rapidly for a few minute .
Then she say , `` Miranda , if you will put yourself into my hand I 'll have you marry to Joe before four o'clock tomorrow afternoon . ''
`` Oh , you could n't . ''
`` I can and I will .
But you 'll have to do exactly a I tell you . ''
`` Oh -- I -- do n't think -- oh , father will kill me -- '' `` Nonsense .
He 'll be very angry I suppose .
But be you more afraid of your father 's anger than you be of Joe 's never come back to you ? ''
`` No , '' say Miranda , with sudden firmness , `` I 'm not . ''
`` Will you do a I tell you then ? ''
`` Yes , I will . ''
`` Then get Joe on the long-distance at once and tell him to bring out a license and ring tonight . ''
`` Oh , I could n't , '' wail the aghast Miranda , `` it -- it would be so -- so indelicate . ''
Rilla shut her little white teeth together with a snap .
`` Heaven grant me patience , '' she say under her breath .
`` I 'll do it then , '' she say aloud , `` and meanwhile , you go home and make what preparation you can .
When I ` phone down to you to come up and help me sew come at once . ''
As soon a Miranda , pallid , scar , but desperately resolve , have go , Rilla fly to the telephone and put in a long-distance call for Charlottetown .
She get through with such surprising quickness that she be convinced Providence approve of her undertaking , but it be a good hour before she could get in touch with Joe Milgrave at his camp .
Meanwhile , she pace impatiently about , and pray that when she do get Joe there would be no listener on the line to carry news to Whiskers-on-the-moon .
`` Is that you , Joe ?
Rilla Blythe be speak -- Rilla -- Rilla -- oh , never mind .
Listen to this .
Before you come home tonight get a marriage license -- a marriage license -- yes , a marriage license -- and a wedding-ring .
Did you get that ?
And will you do it ?
Very well , be sure you do it -- it be your only chance . ''
Flushed with triumph -- for her only fear be that she might not be able to locate Joe in time -- Rilla ring the Pryor ring .
This time she have not such good luck for she draw Whiskers-on-the-moon .
`` Is that Miranda ?
Oh -- Mr. Pryor !
Well , Mr. Pryor , will you kindly ask Miranda if she can come up this afternoon and help me with some sewing .
It be very important , or I would not trouble her .
Oh -- thank you . ''
Mr. Pryor have consent somewhat grumpily , but he have consent -- he do not want to offend Dr. Blythe , and he know that if he refuse to allow Miranda to do any Red Cross work public opinion would make the Glen too hot for comfort .
Rilla go out to the kitchen , shut all the door with a mysterious expression which alarm Susan , and then say solemnly , `` Susan can you make a wedding-cake this afternoon ? ''
`` A wedding-cake ! ''
Susan star .
Rilla have , without any warning , bring her a war-baby once upon a time .
Was she now , with equal suddenness , go to produce a husband ?
`` Yes , a wedding-cake -- a scrumptious wedding-cake , Susan -- a beautiful , plummy , eggy , citron-peely wedding-cake .
And we must make other thing too .
I 'll help you in the morning .
But I ca n't help you in the afternoon for I have to make a wedding-dress and time be the essence of the contract , Susan . ''
Susan felt that she be really too old to be subject to such shock .
`` Who be you go to marry , Rilla ? ''
she ask feebly .
`` Susan , darling , I be not the happy bride .
Miranda Pryor be go to marry Joe Milgrave tomorrow afternoon while her father be away in town .
A war-wedding , Susan -- be n't that thrill and romantic ?
I never be so excited in my life . ''
The excitement soon spread over Ingleside , infect even Mrs. Blythe and Susan .
`` I 'll go to work on that cake at once , '' vow Susan , with a glance at the clock .
`` Mrs. Dr. dear , will you pick over the fruit and beat up the egg ?
If you will I can have that cake ready for the oven by the evening .
Tomorrow morning we can make salad and other thing .
I will work all night if necessary to get the good of Whiskers-on-the-moon . ''
Miranda arrive , tearful and breathless .
`` We must fix over my white dress for you to wear , '' say Rilla .
`` It will fit you very nicely with a little alteration . ''
To work go the two girl , rip , fitting , basting , sew for dear life .
By dint of unceasing effort they get the dress do by seven o'clock and Miranda try it on in Rilla 's room .
`` It 's very pretty -- but oh , if I could just have a veil , '' sigh Miranda .
`` I 've always dream of be marry in a lovely white veil . ''
Some good fairy evidently wait on the wish of war-brides .
The door open and Mrs. Blythe come in , her arm full of a filmy burden .
`` Miranda dear , '' she say , `` I want you to wear my wedding-veil tomorrow .
It be twenty-four year since I be a bride at old Green Gables -- the happy bride that ever be -- and the wedding-veil of a happy bride bring good luck , they say . ''
`` Oh , how sweet of you , Mrs. Blythe , '' say Miranda , the ready tear start to her eye .
The veil be try on and drape .
Susan drop in to approve but dare not linger .
`` I 've get that cake in the oven , '' she say , `` and I be pursue a policy of watchful waiting .
The evening news be that the Grand Duke have capture Erzerum .
That be a pill for the Turks .
I wish I have a chance to tell the Czar just what a mistake he make when he turn Nicholas down . ''
Susan disappear downstairs to the kitchen , whence a dreadful thud and a piercing shriek presently sound .
Everybody rush to the kitchen -- the doctor and Miss Oliver , Mrs. Blythe , Rilla , Miranda in her wedding-veil .
Susan be sit flatly in the middle of the kitchen floor with a daze , bewilder look on her face , while Doc , evidently in his Hyde incarnation , be stand on the dresser , with his back up , his eye blazing , and his tail the size of three tail .
`` Susan , what have happen ? ''
cried Mrs. Blythe in alarm .
`` Did you fall ?
Are you hurt ? ''
Susan pick herself up .
`` No , '' she say grimly , `` I be not hurt , though I be jar all over .
Do not be alarm .
As for what have happen -- I try to kick that darn cat with both foot , that be what happen . ''
Everybody shriek with laughter .
The doctor be quite helpless .
`` Oh , Susan , Susan , '' he gasp .
`` That I should live to hear you swear . ''
`` I be sorry , '' say Susan in real distress , `` that I use such an expression before two young girl .
But I say that beast be darn , and darn it be .
It belong to Old Nick . ''
`` Do you expect it will vanish some of these day with a bang and the odour of brimstone , Susan ? ''
`` It will go to it own place in due time and that you may tie to , '' say Susan dourly , shake out her raddled bone and go to her oven .
`` I suppose my plunk down like that have shake my cake so that it will be as heavy a lead . ''
But the cake be not heavy .
It be all a bride 's cake should be , and Susan ice it beautifully .
Next day she and Rilla work all the forenoon , make delicacy for the wedding-feast , and as soon a Miranda phone up that her father be safely off everything be pack in a big hamper and take down to the Pryor house .
Joe soon arrive in his uniform and a state of violent excitement , accompany by his best man , Sergeant Malcolm Crawford .
There be quite a few guest , for all the Manse and Ingleside folk be there , and a dozen or so of Joe 's relative , include his mother , `` Mrs. Dead Angus Milgrave , '' so call , cheerfully , to distinguish her from another lady whose Angus be live .
Mrs. Dead Angus wear a rather disapprove expression , not care over-much for this alliance with the house of Whiskers-on-the-moon .
So Miranda Pryor be marry to Private Joseph Milgrave on his last leave .
It should have be a romantic wedding but it be not .
There be too many factor work against romance , a even Rilla have to admit .
In the first place , Miranda , in spite of her dress and veil , be such a flat-faced , commonplace , uninteresting little bride .
In the second place , Joe cry bitterly all through the ceremony , and this vexed Miranda unreasonably .
Long afterwards she tell Rilla , `` I just felt like say to him then and there , ` If you feel so bad over have to marry me you do n't have to . '
But it be just because he be think all the time of how soon he would have to leave me . ''
In the third place , Jims , who be usually so well-behaved in public , take a fit of shyness and contrariness combine and begin to cry at the top of his voice for `` Willa . ''
Nobody want to take him out , because everybody want to see the marriage , so Rilla who be a bridesmaid , have to take him and hold him during the ceremony .
In the fourth place , Sir Wilfrid Laurier take a fit .
Sir Wilfrid be entrench in a corner of the room behind Miranda 's piano .
During his seizure he make the weird , most unearthly noise .
He would begin with a series of choke , spasmodic sound , continue into a gruesome gurgle , and end up with a strangled howl .
Nobody could hear a word Mr. Meredith be say , except now and then , when Sir Wilfrid stop for breath .
Nobody look at the bride except Susan , who never drag her fascinate eye from Miranda 's face -- all the others be gaze at the dog .
Miranda have be tremble with nervousness but as soon a Sir Wilfrid begin his performance she forget it .
All that she could think of be that her dear dog be die and she could not go to him .
She never remember a word of the ceremony .
Rilla , who in spite of Jims , have be try her best to look rapt and romantic , a beseem a war bridesmaid , give up the hopeless attempt , and devote her energy to choke down untimely merriment .
She dare not look at anybody in the room , especially Mrs. Dead Angus , for fear all her suppressed mirth should suddenly explode in a most un-young-ladylike yell of laughter .
But marry they be , and then they have a wedding-supper in the dining-room which be so lavish and bountiful that you would have think it be the product of a month 's labour .
Everybody have bring something .
Mrs. Dead Angus have bring a large apple-pie , which she place on a chair in the dining-room and then absently sit down on it .
Neither her temper nor her black silk wed garment be improve thereby , but the pie be never miss at the gay bridal feast .
Mrs. Dead Angus eventually take it home with her again .
Whiskers-on-the-moon 's pacifist pig should not get it , anyhow .
That even Mr. and Mrs. Joe , accompany by the recovered Sir Wilfrid , depart for the Four Winds Lighthouse , which be keep by Joe 's uncle and in which they mean to spend their brief honeymoon .
Una Meredith and Rilla and Susan wash the dish , tidy up , leave a cold supper and Miranda 's pitiful little note on the table for Mr. Pryor , and walk home , while the mystic veil of dreamy , haunt winter twilight wrap itself over the Glen .
`` I would really not have mind be a war-bride myself , '' remark Susan sentimentally .
But Rilla felt rather flat -- perhaps a a reaction to all the excitement and rush of the past thirty-six hour .
She be disappointed somehow -- the whole affair have be so ludicrous , and Miranda and Joe so lachrymose and commonplace .
`` If Miranda have n't give that wretched dog such an enormous dinner he would n't have have that fit , '' she say crossly .
`` I warn her -- but she say she could n't starve the poor dog -- he would soon be all she have leave , etc . .
I could have shake her . ''
`` The best man be more excited than Joe be , '' say Susan .
`` He wish Miranda many happy return of the day .
She do not look very happy , but perhaps you could not expect that under the circumstance . ''
`` Anyhow , '' think Rilla , `` I can write a perfectly kill account of it all to the boy .
How Jem will howl over Sir Wilfrid 's part in it ! ''
But if Rilla be rather disappointed in the war wedding she find nothing lack on Friday morning when Miranda say good-bye to her bridegroom at the Glen station .
The dawn be white a a pearl , clear a a diamond .
Behind the station the balsamy copse of young fir be frost-misted .
The cold moon of dawn hung over the westering snow field but the golden fleece of sunrise shone above the maple up at Ingleside .
Joe take his pale little bride in his arm and she lift her face to his .
Rilla choke suddenly .
It do not matter that Miranda be insignificant and commonplace and flat-featured .
It do not matter that she be the daughter of Whiskers-on-the-moon .
All that matter be that rapt , sacrificial look in her eye -- that ever-burning , sacred fire of devotion and loyalty and fine courage that she be mutely promising Joe she and thousand of other woman would keep alive at home while their men hold the Western front .
Rilla walk away , realise that she must not spy on such a moment .
She go down to the end of the platform where Sir Wilfrid and Dog Monday be sit , look at each other .
Sir Wilfrid remark condescendingly : `` Why do you haunt this old shed when you might lie on the hearthrug at Ingleside and live on the fat of the land ?
Is it a pose ?
Or a fixed idea ? ''
Whereat Dog Monday , laconically : `` I have a tryst to keep . ''
When the train have go Rilla rejoin the little trembling Miranda .
`` Well , he 's go , '' say Miranda , `` and he may never come back -- but I 'm his wife , and I 'm go to be worthy of him .
I 'm go home . ''
`` Do n't you think you have well come with me now ? ''
ask Rilla doubtfully .
Nobody know yet how Mr. Pryor have take the matter .
`` No .
If Joe can face the Huns I guess I can face father , '' say Miranda daringly .
`` A soldier 's wife ca n't be a coward .
Come on , Wilfy .
I 'll go straight home and meet the bad . ''
There be nothing very dreadful to face , however .
Perhaps Mr. Pryor have reflect that housekeeper be hard to get and that there be many Milgrave home open to Miranda -- also , that there be such a thing a a separation allowance .
At all event , though he tell her grumpily that she have make a nice fool of herself , and would live to regret it , he say nothing worse , and Mrs. Joe put on her apron and go to work as usual , while Sir Wilfrid Laurier , who have a poor opinion of lighthouse for winter residence , go to sleep in his pet nook behind the woodbox , a thankful dog that he be do with war-weddings .
CHAPTER XIX `` THEY SHALL NOT PASS '' One cold grey morning in February Gertrude Oliver waken with a shiver , slip into Rilla 's room , and crept in beside her .
`` Rilla -- I 'm frightened -- frighten a a baby -- I 've have another of my strange dream .
Something terrible be before u -- I know . ''
`` What be it ? ''
ask Rilla .
`` I be stand again on the veranda step -- just a I stand in that dream on the night before the lighthouse dance , and in the sky a huge black , menace thunder cloud roll up from the east .
I could see it shadow racing before it and when it envelop me I shiver with icy cold .
Then the storm break -- and it be a dreadful storm -- blind flash after flash and deafen peal after peal , drive torrent of rain .
I turn in panic and try to run for shelter , and a I do so a man -- a soldier in the uniform of a French army officer -- dash up the step and stand beside me on the threshold of the door .
His clothes be soak with blood from a wound in his breast , he seem spent and exhaust ; but his white face be set and his eye blaze in his hollow face .
` They shall not pass , ' he say , in low , passionate tone which I hear distinctly amid all the turmoil of the storm .
Then I awaken .
Rilla , I 'm frightened -- the spring will not bring the Big Push we 've all be hop for -- instead it be go to bring some dreadful blow to France .
I be sure of it .
The Germans will try to smash through somewhere . ''
`` But he tell you that they would not pass , '' say Rilla , seriously .
She never laugh at Gertrude 's dream a the doctor do .
`` I do not know if that be prophecy or desperation , Rilla , the horror of that dream hold me yet in an icy grip .
We shall need all our courage before long . ''
Dr. Blythe do laugh at the breakfast table -- but he never laugh at Miss Oliver 's dream again ; for that day bring news of the opening of the Verdun offensive , and thereafter through all the beautiful week of spring the Ingleside family , one and all , live in a trance of dread .
There be day when they wait in despair for the end a foot by foot the Germans crept nearer and nearer to the grim barrier of desperate France .
Susan 's deed be in her spotless kitchen at Ingleside , but her thought be on the hill around Verdun .
`` Mrs. Dr. dear , '' she would stick her head in at Mrs. Blythe 's door the last thing at night to remark , `` I do hope the French have hang onto the Crow 's Wood today , '' and she wake at dawn to wonder if Dead Man 's Hill -- surely name by some prophet -- be still hold by the `` poyloos . ''
Susan could have draw a map of the country around Verdun that would have satisfy a chief of staff .
`` If the Germans capture Verdun the spirit of France will be break , '' Miss Oliver say bitterly .
`` But they will not capture it , '' staunchly say Susan , who could not eat her dinner that day for fear l they do that very thing .
`` In the first place , you dream they would not -- you dream the very thing the French be say before they ever say it -- ` they shall not pass . '
I declare to you , Miss Oliver , dear , when I read that in the paper , and remember your dream , I go cold all over with awe .
It seem to me like Biblical time when people dream thing like that quite frequently .
`` I know -- I know , '' say Gertrude , walk restlessly about .
`` I cling to a persistent faith in my dream , too -- but every time bad news come it fail me .
Then I tell myself ` mere coincidence ' -- ` subconscious memory ' and so forth . ''
`` I do not see how any memory could remember a thing before it be ever say at all , '' persist Susan , `` though of course I be not educate like you and the doctor .
I would rather not be , if it make anything as simple a that so hard to believe .
But in any case we need not worry over Verdun , even if the Huns get it .
Joffre say it have no military significance . ''
`` That old sop of comfort have be serve up too often already when revers come , '' retort Gertrude .
`` It have lose it power to charm . ''
`` Was there ever a battle like this in the world before ? ''
say Mr. Meredith , one evening in mid-April .
`` It 's such a titanic thing we ca n't grasp it , '' say the doctor .
`` What be the scrap of a few Homeric handful compare to this ?
The whole Trojan war might be fight around a Verdun fort and a newspaper correspondent would give it no more than a sentence .
I be not in the confidence of the occult power '' -- the doctor throw Gertrude a twinkle -- `` but I have a hunch that the fate of the whole war hang on the issue of Verdun .
As Susan and Joffre say , it have no real military significance ; but it have the tremendous significance of an Idea .
If Germany win there she will win the war .
If she lose , the tide will set against her . ''
`` Lose she will , '' say Mr. Meredith : emphatically .
`` The Idea can not be conquer .
France be certainly very wonderful .
It seem to me that in her I see the white form of civilization make a determined stand against the black power of barbarism .
I think our whole world realize this and that be why we all await the issue so breathlessly .
It be n't merely the question of a few fort change hand or a few mile of blood-soaked ground lose and win . ''
`` I wonder , '' say Gertrude dreamily , `` if some great blessing , great enough for the price , will be the meed of all our pain ?
Is the agony in which the world be shudder the birth-pang of some wondrous new era ?
Or be it merely a futile struggle of ant In the gleam of a million million of sun ?
We think very lightly , Mr. Meredith , of a calamity which destroy an ant-hill and half it inhabitant .
Does the Power that run the universe think u of more importance than we think ant ? ''
`` You forget , '' say Mr. Meredith , with a flash of his dark eye , `` that an infinite Power must be infinitely little as well a infinitely great .
We be neither , therefore there be thing too little as well a too great for u to apprehend .
To the infinitely little an ant be of as much importance a a mastodon .
We be witness the birth-pangs of a new era -- but it will be bear a feeble , wail life like everything else .
I be not one of those who expect a new heaven and a new earth a the immediate result of this war .
That be not the way God work .
But work He do , Miss Oliver , and in the end His purpose will be fulfil . ''
`` Sound and orthodox -- sound and orthodox , '' mutter Susan approvingly in the kitchen .
Susan like to see Miss Oliver sit upon by the minister now and then .
Susan be very fond of her but she think Miss Oliver like say heretical thing to minister far too well , and deserve an occasional reminder that these matter be quite beyond her province .
In May Walter write home that he have be award a D.C. Medal .
He do not say what for , but the other boy take care that the Glen should know the brave thing Walter have do .
`` In any war but this , '' write Jerry Meredith , `` it would have mean a V.C . .
But they ca n't make V.C . 's as common a the brave thing do every day here . ''
`` He should have have the V.C . , '' say Susan , and be very indignant over it .
She be not quite sure who be to blame for his not get it , but if it be General Haig she begin for the first time to entertain serious doubt a to his fitness for be Commander-in-Chief .
Rilla be beside herself with delight .
It be her dear Walter who have do this thing -- Walter , to whom someone have send a white feather at Redmond -- it be Walter who have dash back from the safety of the trench to drag in a wounded comrade who have fall on No-man 's - land .
Oh , she could see his white beautiful face and wonderful eye a he do it !
What a thing to be the sister of such a hero !
And he have n't think it worth while write about .
His letter be full of other thing -- little intimate thing that they two have know and love together in the dear old cloudless day of a century ago .
`` I 've be think of the daffodil in the garden at Ingleside , '' he write .
`` By the time you get this they will be out , blow there under that lovely rosy sky .
Are they really a bright and golden a ever , Rilla ?
It seem to me that they must be dye red with blood -- like our poppy here .
And every whisper of spring will be fall a a violet in Rainbow Valley .
`` There be a young moon tonight -- a slender , silver , lovely thing hanging over these pit of torment .
Will you see it tonight over the maple grove ?
`` I 'm enclose a little scrap of verse , Rilla .
I write it one evening in my trench dug-out by the light of a bit of candle -- or rather it come to me there -- I do n't feel a if I be write it -- something seem to use me a an instrument .
I 've have that feel once or twice before , but very rarely and never so strongly a this time .
That be why I send it over to the London Spectator .
It print it and the copy come today .
I hope you 'll like it .
It 's the only poem I 've write since I come overseas . ''
The poem be a short , poignant little thing .
In a month it have carry Walter 's name to every corner of the globe .
Everywhere it be copy -- in metropolitan daily and little village weekly -- in profound review and `` agony column , '' in Red Cross appeal and Government recruit propaganda .
Mothers and sister weep over it , young lad thrill to it , the whole great heart of humanity caught it up a an epitome of all the pain and hope and pity and purpose of the mighty conflict , crystallize in three brief immortal verse .
A Canadian lad in the Flanders trench have write the one great poem of the war .
`` The Piper , '' by Pte . .
Walter Blythe , be a classic from it first printing .
Rilla copy it in her diary at the beginning of an entry in which she pour out the story of the hard week that have just pass .
`` It have be such a dreadful week , '' she write , `` and even though it be over and we know that it be all a mistake that do not seem to do away with the bruise leave by it .
And yet it have in some way be a very wonderful week and I have have some glimpse of thing I never realize before -- of how fine and brave people can be even in the midst of horrible suffering .
I be sure I could never be as splendid a Miss Oliver be .
`` Just a week ago today she have a letter from Mr. Grant 's mother in Charlottetown .
And it tell her that a cable have just come say that Major Robert Grant have be kill in action a few day before .
`` Oh , poor Gertrude !
At first she be crush .
Then after just a day she pull herself together and go back to her school .
She do not cry -- I never saw her shed a tear -- but oh , her face and her eye ! '' '
I must go on with my work , ' she say .
` That be my duty just now . '
`` I could never have rise to such a height .
`` She never speak bitterly except once , when Susan say something about spring be here at last , and Gertrude say , '' ` Can the spring really come this year ? '
`` Then she laugh -- such a dreadful little laugh , just a one might laugh in the face of death , I think , and say , '' ` Observe my egotism .
Because I , Gertrude Oliver , have lose a friend , it be incredible that the spring can come a usual .
The spring do not fail because of the million agony of others -- but for mine -- oh , can the universe go on ? ' ''
` Do n't feel bitter with yourself , dear , ' mother say gently .
` It be a very natural thing to feel a if thing could n't go on just the same when some great blow have change the world for u .
We all feel like that . '
`` Then that horrid old Cousin Sophia of Susan 's pip up .
She be sit there , knit and croak like an old ` raven of bode and woe ' a Walter use to call her . ''
` You ai n't a bad off a some , Miss Oliver , ' she say , ` and you should n't take it so hard .
There 's some a have lose their husband ; that 's a hard blow ; and there 's some a have lose their son .
You have n't lose either husband or son . ' ''
` No , ' say Gertrude , more bitterly still .
` It 's true I have n't lose a husband -- I have only lose the man who would have be my husband .
I have lose no son -- only the son and daughter who might have be bear to me -- who will never be bear to me now . ' ''
` It be n't ladylike to talk like that , ' say Cousin Sophia in a shocked tone ; and then Gertrude laugh right out , so wildly that Cousin Sophia be really frighten .
And when poor torture Gertrude , unable to endure it any longer , hurry out of the room , Cousin Sophia ask mother if the blow have n't affect Miss Oliver 's mind . '' '
I suffer the loss of two good kind partner , ' she say , ` but it do not affect me like that . '
`` I should think it would n't !
Those poor men must have be thankful to die .
`` I hear Gertrude walk up and down her room most of the night .
She walk like that every night .
But never so long a that night .
And once I hear her give a dreadful sudden little cry a if she have be stab .
I could n't sleep for suffer with her ; and I could n't help her .
I think the night would never end .
But it do ; and then ` joy come in the morning ' a the Bible say .
Only it do n't come exactly in the morning but well along in the afternoon .
The telephone rang and I answer it .
It be old Mrs. Grant speak from Charlottetown , and her news be that it be all a mistake -- Robert be n't kill at all ; he have only be slightly wound in the arm and be safe in the hospital out of harm 's way for a time anyhow .
They have n't learn yet how the mistake have happen but suppose there must have be another Robert Grant .
`` I hang up the telephone and fly to Rainbow Valley .
I 'm sure I do fly -- I ca n't remember my foot ever touch the ground .
I meet Gertrude on her way home from school in the glade of spruce where we use to play , and I just gasp out the news to her .
I ought to have have more sense , of course .
But I be so crazy with joy and excitement that I never stop to think .
Gertrude just drop there among the golden young fern a if she have be shoot .
The fright it give me ought to make me sensible -- in this respect at least -- for the rest of my life .
I think I have kill her -- I remember that her mother have die very suddenly from heart failure when quite a young woman .
It seem year to me before I discover that her heart be still beat .
A pretty time I have !
I never saw anybody faint before , and I know there be nobody up at the house to help , because everybody else have go to the station to meet Di and Nan come home from Redmond .
But I know -- theoretically -- how people in a faint should be treat , and now I know it practically .
Luckily the brook be handy , and after I have work frantically over her for a while Gertrude come back to life .
She never say one word about my news and I do n't dare to refer to it again .
I help her walk up through the maple grove and up to her room , and then she say , ` Rob -- be -- living , ' a if the word be tear out of her , and fling herself on her bed and cried and cried and cry .
I never saw anyone cry so before .
All the tear that she have n't shed all that week come then .
She cry most of last night , I think , but her face this morning look a if she have see a vision of some kind , and we be all so happy that we be almost afraid .
`` Di and Nan be home for a couple of week .
Then they go back to Red Cross work in the training camp at Kingsport .
I envy them .
Father say I 'm do just as good work here , with Jims and my Junior Reds .
But it lack the romance theirs must have .
`` Kut have fall .
It be almost a relief when it do fall , we have be dread it so long .
It crush u flat for a day and then we pick up and put it behind u .
Cousin Sophia be as gloomy a usual and come over and groan that the British be lose everywhere . ''
` They 're good loser , ' say Susan grimly .
` When they lose a thing they keep on look till they find it again !
Anyhow , my king and country need me now to cut potato set for the back garden , so get you a knife and help me , Sophia Crawford .
It will divert your thought and keep you from worry over a campaign that you be not call upon to run . '
`` Susan be an old brick , and the way she flatten out poor Cousin Sophia be beautiful to behold .
`` As for Verdun , the battle go on and on , and we see-saw between hope and fear .
But I know that strange dream of Miss Oliver 's foretell the victory of France .
` They shall not pass . ' ''
CHAPTER XX NORMAN DOUGLAS SPEAKS OUT IN MEETING `` Where be you wander , Anne o ' mine ? ''
ask the doctor , who even yet , after twenty-four year of marriage , occasionally address his wife thus when nobody be about .
Anne be sit on the veranda step , gaze absently over the wonderful bridal world of spring blossom , Beyond the white orchard be a copse of dark young fir and creamy wild cherry , where the robin be whistle madly ; for it be even and the fire of early star be burn over the maple grove .
Anne come back with a little sigh .
`` I be just take relief from intolerable reality in a dream , Gilbert -- a dream that all our child be home again -- and all small again -- play in Rainbow Valley .
It be always so silent now -- but I be imagine I hear clear voice and gay , childish sound come up a I use to .
I could hear Jem 's whistle and Walter 's yodel , and the twin ' laughter , and for just a few blessed minute I forget about the gun on the Western front , and have a little false , sweet happiness . ''
The doctor do not answer .
Sometimes his work trick him into forget for a few moment the Western front , but not often .
There be a good deal of grey now in his still thick curl that have not be there two year ago .
Yet he smile down into the starry eye he love -- the eye that have once be so full of laughter , and now seem always full of unshed tear .
Susan wander by with a hoe in her hand and her second best bonnet on her head .
`` I have just finish read a piece in the Enterprise which tell of a couple be marry in an aeroplane .
Do you think it would be legal , doctor dear ? ''
she inquire anxiously .
`` I think so , '' say the doctor gravely .
`` Well , '' say Susan dubiously , `` it seem to me that a wedding be too solemn for anything so giddy a an aeroplane .
But nothing be the same a it use to be .
Well , it be half an hour yet before prayer-meeting time , so I be go around to the kitchen garden to have a little evening hate with the weed .
But all the time I be strafe them I will be think about this new worry in the Trentino .
I do not like this Austrian caper , Mrs. Dr. dear . ''
`` Nor I , '' say Mrs. Blythe ruefully .
`` All the forenoon I preserve rhubarb with my hand and wait for the war news with my soul .
When it come I shrivel .
Well , I suppose I must go and get ready for the prayer-meeting , too . ''
Every village have it own little unwritten history , hand down from lip to lip through the generation , of tragic , comic , and dramatic event .
They be tell at wedding and festival , and rehearse around winter fireside .
And in these oral annals of Glen St. Mary the tale of the union prayer-meeting hold that night in the Methodist Church be destine to fill an imperishable place .
The union prayer-meeting be Mr. Arnold 's idea .
The county battalion , which have be train all winter in Charlottetown , be to leave shortly for overseas .
The Four Winds Harbour boys belong to it from the Glen and over-harbour and Harbour Head and Upper Glen be all home on their last leave , and Mr. Arnold think , properly enough , that it would be a fitting thing to hold a union prayer-meeting for them before they go away .
Mr. Meredith have agree , the meeting be announce to be hold in the Methodist Church .
Glen prayer-meetings be not apt to be too well attended , but on this particular even the Methodist Church be crowd .
Everybody who could go be there .
Even Miss Cornelia come -- and it be the first time in her life that Miss Cornelia have ever set foot inside a Methodist Church .
It take no less than a world conflict to bring that about .
`` I use to hate Methodists , '' say Miss Cornelia calmly , when her husband express surprise over her go , `` but I do n't hate them now .
There be no sense in hat Methodists when there be a Kaiser or a Hindenburg in the world . ''
So Miss Cornelia go .
Norman Douglas and his wife go too .
And Whiskers-on-the-moon strut up the aisle to a front pew , a if he fully realize what a distinction he confer upon the building .
People be somewhat surprised that he should be there , since he usually avoid all assemblage connect in any way with the war .
But Mr. Meredith have say that he hop his session would be well represent , and Mr. Pryor have evidently take the request to heart .
He wear his best black suit and white tie , his thick , tight , iron-grey curl be neatly arrange , and his broad , red round face look , a Susan most uncharitably think , more `` sanctimonious '' than ever .
`` The minute I saw that man come into the Church , look like that , I felt that mischief be brewing , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' she say afterwards .
`` What form it would take I could not tell , but I know from face of him that he have come there for no good . ''
The prayer-meeting open conventionally and continue quietly .
Mr. Meredith speak first with his usual eloquence and feeling .
Mr. Arnold follow with an address which even Miss Cornelia have to confess be irreproachable in taste and subject-matter .
And then Mr. Arnold ask Mr. Pryor to lead in prayer .
Miss Cornelia have always aver that Mr. Arnold have no gumption .
Miss Cornelia be not apt to err on the side of charity in her judgment of Methodist minister , but in this case she do not greatly overshoot the mark .
The Rev . Mr. Arnold certainly do not have much of that desirable , indefinable quality know a gumption , or he would never have ask Whiskers-on-the-moon to lead in prayer at a khaki prayer-meeting .
He think he be return the compliment to Mr. Meredith , who , at the conclusion of his address , have ask a Methodist deacon to lead .
Some people expect Mr. Pryor to refuse grumpily -- and that would have make enough scandal .
But Mr. Pryor bound briskly to his foot , unctuously say , `` Let u pray , '' and forthwith prayed .
In a sonorous voice which penetrate to every corner of the crowded building Mr. Pryor pour forth a flood of fluent word , and be well on in his prayer before his dazed and horrify audience awaken to the fact that they be listen to a pacifist appeal of the rank sort .
Mr. Pryor have at least the courage of his conviction ; or perhaps , a people afterwards say , he think he be safe in a church and that it be an excellent chance to air certain opinion he dare not voice elsewhere , for fear of be mob .
He pray that the unholy war might cease -- that the deluded army be drive to slaughter on the Western front might have their eye open to their iniquity and repent while yet there be time -- that the poor young men present in khaki , who have be hound into a path of murder and militarism , should yet be rescue -- Mr. Pryor have get this far without let or hindrance ; and so paralysed be his hearer , and so deeply imbue with their born-and-bred conviction that no disturbance must ever be make in a church , no matter what the provocation , that it seem likely that he would continue unchecked to the end .
But one man at least in that audience be not hamper by inherited or acquire reverence for the sacred edifice .
Norman Douglas be , a Susan have often vow crisply , nothing more or less than a `` pagan . ''
But he be a rampantly patriotic pagan , and when the significance of what Mr. Pryor be say fully dawn on him , Norman Douglas suddenly go berserk .
With a positive roar he bound to his foot in his side pew , face the audience , and shout in tone of thunder : `` Stop -- stop -- STOP that abominable prayer !
What an abominable prayer ! ''
Every head in the church fly up .
A boy in khaki at the back give a faint cheer .
Mr. Meredith raise a deprecating hand , but Norman be past caring for anything like that .
Eluding his wife 's restrain grasp , he give one mad spring over the front of the pew and catch the unfortunate Whiskers-on-the-moon by his coat collar .
Mr. Pryor have not `` stop '' when so bidden , but he stop now , perforce , for Norman , his long red beard literally bristle with fury , be shake him until his bone fairly rattle , and punctuate his shake with a lurid assortment of abusive epithet .
`` You blatant beast ! ''
-- shake -- `` You malignant carrion '' -- shake -- `` You pig-headed varmint ! ''
-- shake -- `` you putrid pup '' -- shake -- `` you pestilential parasite '' -- shake -- `` you -- Hunnish scum '' -- shake -- `` you indecent reptile -- you -- you -- '' Norman choke for a moment .
Everybody believe that the next thing he would say , church or no church , would be something that would have to be spell with asterisk ; but at that moment Norman encounter his wife 's eye and he fell back with a thud on Holy Writ .
`` You white sepulchre ! ''
he bellow , with a final shake , and cast Whiskers-on-the-moon from him with a vigour which impel that unhappy pacifist to the very verge of the choir entrance door .
Mr. Pryor 's once ruddy face be ashen .
But he turn at bay .
`` I 'll have the law on you for this , '' he gasp .
`` Do -- do , '' roar Norman , make another rush .
But Mr. Pryor be go .
He have no desire to fall a second time into the hand of an avenging militarist .
Norman turn to the platform for one graceless , triumphant moment .
`` Do n't look so flabbergasted , parson , '' he boom .
`` You could n't do it -- nobody would expect it of the cloth -- but somebody have to do it .
You know you 're glad I throw him out -- he could n't be let go on yammering and yodelling and yawp sedition and treason .
Sedition and treason -- somebody have to deal with it .
I be bear for this hour -- I 've have my inning in church at last .
I can sit quiet for another sixty year now !
Go ahead with your meeting , parson .
I reckon you wo n't be trouble with any more pacifist prayer . ''
But the spirit of devotion and reverence have flee .
Both minister realize it and realize that the only thing to do be to close the meeting quietly and let the excited people go .
Mr. Meredith address a few earnest word to the boy in khaki -- which probably save Mr. Pryor 's window from a second onslaught -- and Mr. Arnold pronounce an incongruous benediction , at least he felt it be incongruous , for he could not at once banish from his memory the sight of gigantic Norman Douglas shake the fat , pompous little Whiskers-on-the-moon a a huge mastiff might shake an overgrown puppy .
And he know that the same picture be in everybody 's mind .
Altogether the union prayer-meeting could hardly be call an unqualified success .
But it be remember in Glen St. Mary when score of orthodox and undisturbed assembly be totally forget .
`` You will never , no , never , Mrs. Dr. dear , hear me call Norman Douglas a pagan again , '' say Susan when she reach home .
`` If Ellen Douglas be not a proud woman this night she should be . ''
`` Norman Douglas do a wholly indefensible thing , '' say the doctor .
`` Pryor should have be let severely alone until the meeting be over .
Then later on , his own minister and session should deal with him .
That would have be the proper procedure .
Norman 's performance be utterly improper and scandalous and outrageous ; but , by George , '' -- the doctor throw back his head and chuckle , `` by George , Anne-girl , it be satisfy . ''
CHAPTER XXI `` LOVE AFFAIRS ARE HORRIBLE '' Ingleside 20th June 1916 `` We have be so busy , and day after day have bring such exciting news , good and bad , that I have n't have time and composure to write in my diary for week .
I like to keep it up regularly , for father say a diary of the year of the war should be a very interesting thing to hand down to one 's child .
The trouble be , I like to write a few personal thing in this bless old book that might not be exactly what I 'd want my child to read .
I feel that I shall be a far great stickler for propriety in regard to them than I be for myself !
`` The first week in June be another dreadful one .
The Austrians seem just on the point of overrun Italy : and then come the first awful news of the Battle of Jutland , which the Germans claim a a great victory .
Susan be the only one who carry on .
` You need never tell me that the Kaiser have defeat the British Navy , ' she say , with a contemptuous sniff .
` It be all a German lie and that you may tie to . '
And when a couple of day later we find out that she be right and that it have be a British victory instead of a British defeat , we have to put up with a great many ' I tell you so 's , ' but we endure them very comfortably .
`` It take Kitchener 's death to finish Susan .
For the first time I saw her down and out .
We all felt the shock of it but Susan plumb the depth of despair .
The news come at night by ` phone but Susan would n't believe it until she saw the Enterprise headline the next day .
She do not cry or faint or go into hysteric ; but she forget to put salt in the soup , and that be something Susan never do in my recollection .
Mother and Miss Oliver and I cry but Susan look at u in stony sarcasm and say , ` The Kaiser and his six son be all alive and thriving .
So the world be not leave wholly desolate .
Why cry , Mrs. Dr. dear ? '
Susan continue in this stony , hopeless condition for twenty-four hour , and then Cousin Sophia appear and begin to condole with her . ''
` This be terrible news , ai n't it , Susan ?
We might as well prepare for the bad for it be bind to come .
You say once -- and well do I remember the word , Susan Baker -- that you have complete confidence in God and Kitchener .
Ah well , Susan Baker , there be only God leave now . '
`` Whereat Cousin Sophia put her handkerchief to her eye pathetically a if the world be indeed in terrible strait .
As for Susan , Cousin Sophia be the salvation of her .
She come to life with a jerk . ''
` Sophia Crawford , hold your peace ! '
she say sternly .
` You may be an idiot but you need not be an irreverent idiot .
It be no more than decent to be weep and wail because the Almighty be the sole stay of the Allies now .
As for Kitchener , his death be a great loss and I do not dispute it .
But the outcome of this war do not depend on one man 's life and now that the Russians be come on again you will soon see a change for the good . '
`` Susan say this so energetically that she convince herself and cheer up immediately .
But Cousin Sophia shake her head . ''
` Albert 's wife want to call the baby after Brusiloff , ' she say , ` but I tell her to wait and see what becomes of him first .
Them Russians have such a habit of petering out . '
`` The Russians be do splendidly , however , and they have save Italy .
But even when the daily news of their sweeping advance come we do n't feel like run up the flag a we use to do .
As Gertrude say , Verdun have slay all exultation .
We would all feel more like rejoice if the victory be on the western front .
` When will the British strike ? '
Gertrude sigh this morning .
` We have wait so long -- so long . '
`` Our great local event in recent week be the route march the county battalion make through the county before it leave for overseas .
They march from Charlottetown to Lowbridge , then round the Harbour Head and through the Upper Glen and so down to the St. Mary station .
Everybody turn out to see them , except old Aunt Fannie Clow , who be bedridden and Mr. Pryor , who have n't be see out even in church since the night of the Union Prayer Meeting the previous week .
`` It be wonderful and heartbreaking to see that battalion march past .
There be young men and middle-aged men in it .
There be Laurie McAllister from over-harbour who be only sixteen but swear he be eighteen , so that he could enlist ; and there be Angus Mackenzie , from the Upper Glen who be fifty-five if he be a day and swore he be forty-four .
There be two South African veteran from Lowbridge , and the three eighteen-year-old Baxter triplet from Harbour Head .
Everybody cheer a they go by , and they cheer Foster Booth , who be forty , walk side by side with his son Charley who be twenty .
Charley 's mother die when he be bear , and when Charley enlist Foster say he 'd never yet let Charley go anywhere he dare n't go himself , and he do n't mean to begin with the Flanders trench .
At the station Dog Monday nearly go out of his head .
He tear about and send message to Jem by them all .
Mr. Meredith read an address and Reta Crawford recite ` The Piper . '
The soldier cheer her like mad and cried ` We 'll follow -- we 'll follow -- we wo n't break faith , ' and I felt so proud to think that it be my dear brother who have write such a wonderful , heart-stirring thing .
And then I look at the khaki rank and wonder if those tall fellow in uniform could be the boy I 've laugh with and play with and dance with and tease all my life .
Something seem to have touch them and set them apart .
They have hear the Piper 's call .
`` Fred Arnold be in the battalion and I felt dreadfully about him , for I realize that it be because of me that he be go away with such a sorrowful expression .
I could n't help it but I felt as badly a if I could .
`` The last evening of his leave Fred come up to Ingleside and tell me he love me and ask me if I would promise to marry him some day , if he ever come back .
He be desperately in earnest and I felt more wretched than I ever do in my life .
I could n't promise him that -- why , even if there be no question of Ken , I do n't care for Fred that way and never could -- but it seem so cruel and heartless to send him away to the front without any hope of comfort .
I cry like a baby ; and yet -- oh , I be afraid that there must be something incurably frivolous about me , because , right in the middle of it all , with me cry and Fred look so wild and tragic , the thought pop into my head that it would be an unendurable thing to see that nose across from me at the breakfast table every morning of my life .
There , that be one of the entry I would n't want my descendant to read in this journal .
But it be the humiliate truth ; and perhaps it 's just as well that think do come or I might have be trick by pity and remorse into give him some rash assurance .
If Fred 's nose be as handsome a his eye and mouth some such thing might have happen .
And then what an unthinkable predicament I should have be in !
`` When poor Fred become convinced that I could n't promise him , he behave beautifully -- though that rather make thing worse .
If he have be nasty about it I would n't have felt so heartbroken and remorseful -- though why I should feel remorseful I do n't know , for I never encourage Fred to think I care a bit about him .
Yet feel remorseful I do -- and do .
If Fred Arnold never come back from overseas , this will haunt me all my life .
`` Then Fred say if he could n't take my love with him to the trench at least he want to feel that he have my friendship , and would I kiss him just once in good-bye before he go -- perhaps for ever ?
`` I do n't know how I could ever have imagine that love affair be delightful , interesting thing .
They be horrible .
I could n't even give poor heartbroken Fred one little kiss , because of my promise to Ken .
It seem so brutal .
I have to tell Fred that of course he would have my friendship , but that I could n't kiss him because I have promise somebody else I would n't .
`` He say , ` It be -- be it -- Ken Ford ? '
`` I nod .
It seem dreadful to have to tell it -- it be such a sacred little secret just between me and Ken .
`` When Fred go away I come up here to my room and cry so long and so bitterly that mother come up and insist on know what be the matter .
I tell her .
She listen to my tale with an expression that clearly say , ` Can it be possible that anyone have be want to marry this baby ? '
But she be so nice and understanding and sympathetic , oh , just so race-of-Josephy -- that I felt indescribably comfort .
Mothers be the dear thing . ''
` But oh , mother , ' I sob , ` he want me to kiss him good-bye -- and I could n't -- and that hurt me bad than all the rest . ' ''
` Well , why do n't you kiss him ? '
ask mother coolly .
` Considering the circumstance , I think you might have . ' ''
` But I could n't , mother -- I promise Ken when he go away that I would n't kiss anybody else until he come back . '
`` This be another high explosive for poor mother .
She exclaim , with the queer little catch in her voice , ` Rilla , be you engage to Kenneth Ford ? ' ''
` I -- do n't -- know , ' I sob . ''
` You -- do n't -- know ? '
repeat mother .
`` Then I have to tell her the whole story , too ; and every time I tell it it seem silly and silly to imagine that Ken mean anything serious .
I felt idiotic and ashamed by the time I get through .
`` Mother sit a little while in silence .
Then she come over , sit down beside me , and take me in her arm . ''
` Do n't cry , dear little Rilla-my-Rilla .
You have nothing to reproach yourself with in regard to Fred ; and if Leslie West 's son ask you to keep your lip for him , I think you may consider yourself engage to him .
But -- oh , my baby -- my last little baby -- I have lose you -- the war have make a woman of you too soon . '
`` I shall never be too much of a woman to find comfort in mother 's hug .
Nevertheless , when I saw Fred marching by two day later in the parade , my heart ache unbearably .
`` But I 'm glad mother think I 'm really engage to Ken ! ''
CHAPTER XXII LITTLE DOG MONDAY KNOWS `` It be two year tonight since the dance at the light , when Jack Elliott bring u news of the war .
Do you remember , Miss Oliver ? ''
Cousin Sophia answer for Miss Oliver .
`` Oh , indeed , Rilla , I remember that even only too well , and you a-prancing down here to show off your party clothes .
Did n't I warn you that we could not tell what be before u ?
Little do you think that night what be before you . ''
`` Little do any of u think that , '' say Susan sharply , `` not be gift with the power of prophecy .
It do not require any great foresight , Sophia Crawford , to tell a body that she will have some trouble before her life be over .
I could do as much myself . ''
`` We all think the war would be over in a few month then , '' say Rilla wistfully .
`` When I look back it seem so ridiculous that we ever could have suppose it . ''
`` And now , two year later , it be no nearer the end than it be then , '' say Miss Oliver gloomily .
Susan click her knitting-needles briskly .
`` Now , Miss Oliver , dear , you know that be not a reasonable remark .
You know we be just two year nearer the end , whenever the end be appoint to be . ''
`` Albert read in a Montreal paper today that a war expert give it a his opinion that it will last five year more , '' be Cousin Sophia 's cheerful contribution .
`` It ca n't , '' cry Rilla ; then she add with a sigh , `` Two year ago we would have say ` It ca n't last two year . '
But five more year of this ! ''
`` If Rumania come in , a I have strong hope now of her do , you will see the end in five month instead of five year , '' say Susan .
`` I 've no faith in furriners , '' sigh Cousin Sophia .
`` The French be foreigner , '' retort Susan , `` and look at Verdun .
And think of all the Somme victory this bless summer .
The Big Push be on and the Russians be still go well .
Why , General Haig say that the German officer he have capture admit that they have lose the war . ''
`` You ca n't believe a word the Germans say , '' protest Cousin Sophia .
`` There be no sense in believe a thing just because you 'd like to believe it , Susan Baker .
The British have lose million of men at the Somme and how far have they get ?
Look facts in the face , Susan Baker , look fact in the face . ''
`` They be wear the Germans out and so long a that happen it do not matter whether it be do a few mile east or a few mile west .
I be not , '' admit Susan in tremendous humility , `` I be not a military expert , Sophia Crawford , but even I can see that , and so could you if you be not determine to take a gloomy view of everything .
The Huns have not get all the cleverness in the world .
Have you not hear the story of Alistair MacCallum 's son Roderick , from the Upper Glen ?
He be a prisoner in Germany and his mother get a letter from him last week .
He write that he be be very kindly treat and that all the prisoner have plenty of food and so on , till you would have suppose everything be lovely .
But when he sign his name , right in between Roderick and MacCallum , he write two Gaelic word that mean ` all lie ' and the German censor do not understand Gaelic and think it be all part of Roddy 's name .
So he let it pass , never dream how he be diddle .
Well , I be go to leave the war to Haig for the rest of the day and make a frosting for my chocolate cake .
And when it be make I shall put it on the top shelf .
The last one I make I leave it on the low shelf and little Kitchener sneak in and claw all the ice off and eat it .
We have company for tea that night and when I go to get my cake what a sight do I behold ! ''
`` Has that pore orphan 's father never be heerd from yet ? ''
ask Cousin Sophia .
`` Yes , I have a letter from him in July , '' say Rilla .
`` He say that when he get word of his wife 's death and of my take the baby -- Mr. Meredith write him , you know -- he write right away , but a he never get any answer he have begin to think his letter must have be lose . ''
`` It take him two year to begin to think it , '' say Susan scornfully .
`` Some people think very slow .
Jim Anderson have not get a scratch , for all he have be two year in the trench .
A fool for luck , a the old proverb say . ''
`` He write very nicely about Jims and say he 'd like to see him , '' say Rilla .
`` So I write and tell him all about the wee man , and send him snapshot .
Jims will be two year old next week and he be a perfect duck . ''
`` You do n't use to be very fond of baby , '' say Cousin Sophia .
`` I 'm not a bit fonder of baby in the abstract than ever I be , '' say Rilla , frankly .
`` But I do love Jims , and I 'm afraid I be n't really half as glad a I should have be when Jim Anderson 's letter prove that he be safe and sound . ''
`` You be n't hop the man would be kill ! ''
cry Cousin Sophia in horrified accent .
`` No -- no -- no !
I just hop he would go on forget about Jims , Mrs. Crawford . ''
`` And then your pa would have the expense of raise him , '' say Cousin Sophia reprovingly .
`` You young creeturs be terrible thoughtless . ''
Jims himself run in at this juncture , so rosy and curly and kissable , that he extort a qualified compliment even from Cousin Sophia .
`` He 's a reel healthy-looking child now , though mebbee his colour be a mite too high -- sorter consumptive look , a you might say .
I never think you 'd raise him when I saw him the day after you brung him home .
I reely do not think it be in you and I tell Albert 's wife so when I get home .
Albert 's wife say , say she , ` There 's more in Rilla Blythe than you 'd think for , Aunt Sophia . '
Them be her very word .
` More in Rilla Blythe than you 'd think for . '
Albert 's wife always have a good opinion of you . ''
Cousin Sophia sigh , a if to imply that Albert 's wife stand alone in this against the world .
But Cousin Sophia really do not mean that .
She be quite fond of Rilla in her own melancholy way ; but young creeturs have to be keep down .
If they be not keep down society would be demoralize .
`` Do you remember your walk home from the light two year ago tonight ? ''
whisper Gertrude Oliver to Rilla , teasingly .
`` I should think I do , '' smile Rilla ; and then her smile grow dreamy and absent ; she be remember something else -- that hour with Kenneth on the sandshore .
Where would Ken be tonight ?
And Jem and Jerry and Walter and all the other boy who have dance and moonlight on the old Four Winds Point that evening of mirth and laughter -- their last joyous unclouded evening .
In the filthy trench of the Somme front , with the roar of the gun and the groan of stricken men for the music of Ned Burr 's violin , and the flash of star shell for the silver sparkle on the old blue gulf .
Two of them be sleep under the Flanders poppy -- Alec Burr from the Upper Glen , and Clark Manley of Lowbridge .
Others be wound in the hospital .
But so far nothing have touch the manse and the Ingleside boy .
They seem to bear charmed life .
Yet the suspense never grow any easy to bear a the week and month of war go by .
`` It be n't a if it be some sort of fever to which you might conclude they be immune when they have n't take it for two year , '' sigh Rilla .
`` The danger be just as great and just as real a it be the first day they go into the trench .
I know this , and it torture me every day .
And yet I ca n't help hop that since they 've come this far unhurt they 'll come through .
Oh , Miss Oliver , what would it be like not to wake up in the morning feeling afraid of the news the day would bring ?
I ca n't picture such a state of thing somehow .
And two year ago this morning I wake wonder what delightful gift the new day would give me .
These be the two year I think would be fill with fun . ''
`` Would you exchange them -- now -- for two year fill with fun ? ''
`` No , '' say Rilla slowly .
`` I would n't .
It 's strange -- be n't it ?
-- They have be two terrible year -- and yet I have a queer feeling of thankfulness for them -- a if they have bring me something very precious , with all their pain .
I would n't want to go back and be the girl I be two year ago , not even if I could .
Not that I think I 've make any wonderful progress -- but I 'm not quite the selfish , frivolous little doll I be then .
I suppose I have a soul then , Miss Oliver -- but I do n't know it .
I know it now -- and that be worth a great deal -- worth all the suffering of the past two year .
And still '' -- Rilla give a little apologetic laugh , `` I do n't want to suffer any more -- not even for the sake of more soul growth .
At the end of two more year I might look back and be thankful for the development they have bring me , too ; but I do n't want it now . ''
`` We never do , '' say Miss Oliver .
`` That be why we be not leave to choose our own mean and measure of development , I suppose .
No matter how much we value what our lesson have bring u we do n't want to go on with the bitter schooling .
Well , let u hope for the best , a Susan say ; thing be really go well now and if Rumania line up , the end may come with a suddenness that will surprise u all . ''
Rumania do come in -- and Susan remark approvingly that it king and queen be the fine look royal couple she have see picture of .
So the summer pass away .
Early in September word come that the Canadians have be shift to the Somme front and anxiety grow tenser and deeper .
For the first time Mrs. Blythe 's spirit fail her a little , and a the day of suspense wore on the doctor begin to look gravely at her , and veto this or that special effort in Red Cross work .
`` Oh , let me work -- let me work , Gilbert , '' she entreat feverishly .
`` While I 'm work I do n't think so much .
If I 'm idle I imagine everything -- rest be only torture for me .
My two boy be on the frightful Somme front -- and Shirley pore day and night over aviation literature and say nothing .
But I see the purpose grow in his eye .
No , I can not rest -- do n't ask it of me , Gilbert . ''
But the doctor be inexorable .
`` I ca n't let you kill yourself , Anne-girl , '' he say .
`` When the boy come back I want a mother here to welcome them .
Why , you 're get transparent .
It wo n't do -- ask Susan there if it will do . ''
`` Oh , if Susan and you be both band together against me ! ''
say Anne helplessly .
One day the glorious news come that the Canadians have take Courcelette and Martenpuich , with many prisoner and gun .
Susan run up the flag and say it be plain to be see that Haig know what soldier to pick for a hard job .
The others dare not feel exultant .
Who know what price have be pay ?
Rilla wake that morning when the dawn be begin to break and go to her window to look out , her thick creamy eyelid heavy with sleep .
Just at dawn the world look a it never look at any other time .
The air be cold with dew and the orchard and grove and Rainbow Valley be full of mystery and wonder .
Over the eastern hill be golden deep and silvery-pink shallow .
There be no wind , and Rilla hear distinctly a dog howling in a melancholy way down in the direction of the station .
Was it Dog Monday ?
And if it be , why be he howl like that ?
Rilla shiver ; the sound have something boding and grievous in it .
She remember that Miss Oliver say once , when they be come home in the darkness and hear a dog howl , `` When a dog cry like that the Angel of Death be pass . ''
Rilla listen with a curdle fear at her heart .
It be Dog Monday -- she felt sure of it .
Whose dirge be he howl -- to whose spirit be he send that anguish greeting and farewell ?
Rilla go back to bed but she could not sleep .
All day she watch and wait in a dread of which she do not speak to anyone .
She go down to see Dog Monday and the station-master say , `` That dog of yours howl from midnight to sunrise something weird .
I dunno what get into him .
I get up once and go out and holler at him but he pay no ` tention to me .
He be sit all alone in the moonlight out there at the end of the platform , and every few minute the poor lonely little beggar 'd lift his nose and howl a if his heart be break .
He never do it afore -- always sleep in his kennel real quiet and canny from train to train .
But he sure have something on his mind last night . ''
Dog Monday be lie in his kennel .
He wag his tail and lick Rilla 's hand .
But he would not touch the food she bring for him .
`` I 'm afraid he 's sick , '' she say anxiously .
She hat to go away and leave him .
But no bad news come that day -- nor the next -- nor the next .
Rilla 's fear lift .
Dog Monday howl no more and resume his routine of train meeting and watching .
When five day have pass the Ingleside people begin to feel that they might be cheerful again .
Rilla dash about the kitchen help Susan with the breakfast and sing so sweetly and clearly that Cousin Sophia across the road hear her and croak out to Mrs. Albert , '' ` Sing before eating , cry before sleep , ' I 've always hear . ''
But Rilla Blythe shed no tear before the nightfall .
When her father , his face grey and drawn and old , come to her that afternoon and tell her that Walter have be kill in action at Courcelette she crumple up in a pitiful little heap of merciful unconsciousness in his arm .
Nor do she waken to her pain for many hour .
CHAPTER XXIII `` AND SO , GOODNIGHT '' The fierce flame of agony have burn itself out and the grey dust of it ash be over all the world .
Rilla 's young life recover physically sooner than her mother .
For week Mrs. Blythe lay ill from grief and shock .
Rilla find it be possible to go on with existence , since existence have still to be reckon with .
There be work to be do , for Susan could not do all .
For her mother 's sake she have to put on calmness and endurance a a garment in the day ; but night after night she lay in her bed , weep the bitter rebellious tear of youth until at last tear be all weep out and the little patient ache that be to be in her heart until she die take their place .
She cling to Miss Oliver , who know what to say and what not to say .
So few people do .
Kind , well-meaning caller and comforter give Rilla some terrible moment .
`` You 'll get over it in time , '' Mrs. William Reese say , cheerfully .
Mrs. Reese have three stalwart son , not one of whom have go to the front .
`` It 's such a bless it be Walter who be take and not Jem , '' say Miss Sarah Clow .
`` Walter be a member of the church , and Jem be n't .
I 've tell Mr. Meredith many a time that he should have speak seriously to Jem about it before he go away . ''
`` Pore , pore Walter , '' sigh Mrs. Reese .
`` Do not you come here call him poor Walter , '' say Susan indignantly , appear in the kitchen door , much to the relief of Rilla , who felt that she could endure no more just then .
`` He be not poor .
He be rich than any of you .
It be you who stay at home and will not let your son go who be poor -- poor and naked and mean and small -- pisen poor , and so be your son , with all their prosperous farm and fat cattle and their souls no big than a flea 's -- if a big . ''
`` I come here to comfort the afflicted and not to be insult , '' say Mrs. Reese , take her departure , unregretted by anyone .
Then the fire go out of Susan and she retreat to her kitchen , lay her faithful old head on the table and weep bitterly for a time .
Then she go to work and iron Jims 's little romper .
Rilla scold her gently for it when she herself come in to do it .
`` I be not go to have you kill yourself work for any war-baby , '' Susan say obstinately .
`` Oh , I wish I could just keep on work all the time , Susan , '' cry poor Rilla .
`` And I wish I do n't have to go to sleep .
It be hideous to go to sleep and forget it for a little while , and wake up and have it all rush over me anew the next morning .
Do people ever get use to thing like this , Susan ?
And oh , Susan , I ca n't get away from what Mrs. Reese say .
Did Walter suffer much -- he be always so sensitive to pain .
Oh , Susan , if I know that he do n't I think I could gather up a little courage and strength . ''
This merciful knowledge be give to Rilla .
A letter come from Walter 's commanding officer , tell them that he have be kill instantly by a bullet during a charge at Courcelette .
The same day there be a letter for Rilla from Walter himself .
Rilla carry it unopened to Rainbow Valley and read it there , in the spot where she have have her last talk with him .
It be a strange thing to read a letter after the writer be dead -- a bitter-sweet thing , in which pain and comfort be strangely mingle .
For the first time since the blow have fall Rilla felt -- a different thing from tremulous hope and faith -- that Walter , of the glorious gift and the splendid ideal , still live , with just the same gift and just the same ideal .
That could not be destroy -- these could suffer no eclipse .
The personality that have express itself in that last letter , write on the eve of Courcelette , could not be snuff out by a German bullet .
It must carry on , though the earthly link with thing of earth be break .
`` We 're go over the top tomorrow , Rilla-my-Rilla , '' write Walter .
`` I write mother and Di yesterday , but somehow I feel a if I must write you tonight .
I have n't intend to do any writing tonight -- but I 've get to .
Do you remember old Mrs. Tom Crawford over-harbour , who be always say that it be ` laid on her ' to do such and such a thing ?
Well , that be just how I feel .
It 's ` lay on me ' to write you tonight -- you , sister and chum of mine .
There be some thing I want to say before -- well , before tomorrow .
`` You and Ingleside seem strangely near me tonight .
It 's the first time I 've felt this since I come .
Always home have seem so far away -- so hopelessly far away from this hideous welter of filth and blood .
But tonight it be quite close to me -- it seem to me I can almost see you -- hear you speak .
And I can see the moonlight shin white and still on the old hill of home .
It have seem to me ever since I come here that it be impossible that there could be calm gentle night and unshattered moonlight anywhere in the world .
But tonight somehow , all the beautiful thing I have always love seem to have become possible again -- and this be good , and make me feel a deep , certain , exquisite happiness .
It must be autumn at home now -- the harbour be a-dream and the old Glen hill blue with haze , and Rainbow Valley a haunt of delight with wild aster blow all over it -- our old `` farewell-summers . ''
I always like that name well than ` aster ' -- it be a poem in itself .
`` Rilla , you know I 've always have premonition .
You remember the Pied Piper -- but no , of course you would n't -- you be too young .
One evening long ago when Nan and Di and Jem and the Merediths and I be together in Rainbow Valley I have a queer vision or presentiment -- whatever you like to call it .
Rilla , I saw the Piper come down the Valley with a shadowy host behind him .
The others think I be only pretend -- but I saw him for just one moment .
And Rilla , last night I saw him again .
I be do sentry-go and I saw him march across No-man 's - land from our trench to the German trench -- the same tall shadowy form , pip weirdly -- and behind him follow boy in khaki .
Rilla , I tell you I saw him -- it be no fancy -- no illusion .
I hear his music , and then -- he be go .
But I have see him -- and I know what it mean -- I know that I be among those who follow him .
`` Rilla , the Piper will pipe me ` west ' tomorrow .
I feel sure of this .
And Rilla , I 'm not afraid .
When you hear the news , remember that .
I 've win my own freedom here -- freedom from all fear .
I shall never be afraid of anything again -- not of death -- nor of life , if after all , I be to go on living .
And life , I think , would be the harder of the two to face -- for it could never be beautiful for me again .
There would always be such horrible thing to remember -- thing that would make life ugly and painful always for me .
I could never forget them .
But whether it 's life or death , I 'm not afraid , Rilla-my-Rilla , and I be not sorry that I come .
I 'm satisfied .
I 'll never write the poem I once dream of writing -- but I 've help to make Canada safe for the poet of the future -- for the worker of the future -- ay , and the dreamer , too -- for if no man dream , there will be nothing for the worker to fulfil -- the future , not of Canada only but of the world -- when the ` red rain ' of Langemarck and Verdun shall have bring forth a golden harvest -- not in a year or two , a some foolishly think , but a generation later , when the seed sown now shall have have time to germinate and grow .
Yes , I 'm glad I come , Rilla .
It be n't only the fate of the little sea-born island I love that be in the balance -- nor of Canada nor of England .
It 's the fate of mankind .
That be what we 're fight for .
And we shall win -- never for a moment doubt that , Rilla .
For it be n't only the living who be fight -- the dead be fight too .
Such an army can not be defeat .
`` Is there laughter in your face yet , Rilla ?
I hope so .
The world will need laughter and courage more than ever in the year that will come next .
I do n't want to preach -- this be n't any time for it .
But I just want to say something that may help you over the bad when you hear that I 've go ` west . '
I 've a premonition about you , Rilla , as well a about myself .
I think Ken will go back to you -- and that there be long year of happiness for you by-and-by .
And you will tell your child of the Idea we fight and die for -- teach them it must be live for as well a die for , else the price pay for it will have be give for nought .
This will be part of your work , Rilla .
And if you -- all you girls back in the homeland -- do it , then we who do n't come back will know that you have not ` broken faith ' with u .
`` I mean to write to Una tonight , too , but I wo n't have time now .
Read this letter to her and tell her it 's really mean for you both -- you two dear , fine loyal girl .
Tomorrow , when we go over the top -- I 'll think of you both -- of your laughter , Rilla-my-Rilla , and the steadfastness in Una 's blue eye -- somehow I see those eye very plainly tonight , too .
Yes , you 'll both keep faith -- I 'm sure of that -- you and Una .
And so -- goodnight .
We go over the top at dawn . ''
Rilla read her letter over many time .
There be a new light on her pale young face when she finally stand up , amid the aster Walter have love , with the sunshine of autumn around her .
For the moment at least , she be lift above pain and loneliness .
`` I will keep faith , Walter , '' she say steadily .
`` I will work -- and teach -- and learn -- and laugh , yes , I will even laugh -- through all my year , because of you and because of what you give when you follow the call . ''
Rilla meant to keep Walter 's letter a a a sacred treasure .
But , see the look on Una Meredith 's face when Una have read it and hold it back to her , she think of something .
Could she do it ?
Oh , no , she could not give up Walter 's letter -- his last letter .
Surely it be not selfishness to keep it .
A copy would be such a soulless thing .
But Una -- Una have so little -- and her eye be the eye of a woman stricken to the heart , who yet must not cry out or ask for sympathy .
`` Una , would you like to have this letter -- to keep ? ''
she ask slowly .
`` Yes -- if you can give it to me , '' Una say dully .
`` Then -- you may have it , '' say Rilla hurriedly .
`` Thank you , '' say Una .
It be all she say , but there be something in her voice which repay Rilla for her bit of sacrifice .
Una take the letter and when Rilla have go she press it against her lonely lip .
Una know that love would never come into her life now -- it be bury for ever under the blood-stained soil `` Somewhere in France . ''
No one but herself -- and perhaps Rilla -- know it -- would ever know it .
She have no right in the eye of her world to grieve .
She must hide and bear her long pain a best she could -- alone .
But she , too , would keep faith .
CHAPTER XXIV MARY IS JUST IN TIME The autumn of 1916 be a bitter season for Ingleside .
Mrs. Blythe 's return to health be slow , and sorrow and loneliness be in all heart .
Every one try to hide it from the others and `` carry on '' cheerfully .
Rilla laugh a good deal .
Nobody at Ingleside be deceive by her laughter ; it come from her lip only , never from her heart .
But outsider say some people get over trouble very easily , and Irene Howard remark that she be surprise to find how shallow Rilla Blythe really be .
`` Why , after all her pose of be so devote to Walter , she do n't seem to mind his death at all .
Nobody have ever see her shed a tear or hear her mention his name .
She have evidently quite forgotten him .
Poor fellow -- you 'd really think his family would feel it more .
I speak of him to Rilla at the last Junior Red meeting -- of how fine and brave and splendid he be -- and I say life could never be just the same to me again , now that Walter have go -- we be such friend , you know -- why I be the very first person he tell about have enlist -- and Rilla answer , a coolly and indifferently a if she be speak of an entire stranger , ` He be just one of many fine and splendid boy who have give everything for their country . '
Well , I wish I could take thing a calmly -- but I 'm not make like that .
I 'm so sensitive -- thing hurt me terribly -- I really never get over them .
I ask Rilla right out why she do n't put on mourn for Walter .
She say her mother do n't wish it .
But every one be talk about it . ''
`` Rilla do n't wear colour -- nothing but white , '' protest Betty Mead .
`` White become her good than anything else , '' say Irene significantly .
`` And we all know black do n't suit her complexion at all .
But of course I 'm not say that be the reason she do n't wear it .
Only , it 's funny .
If my brother have die I 'd have go into deep mourning .
I would n't have have the heart for anything else .
I confess I 'm disappointed in Rilla Blythe . ''
`` I be not , then , '' cry Betty Meade , loyally , `` I think Rilla be just a wonderful girl .
A few year ago I admit I do think she be rather too vain and gigglesome ; but now she be nothing of the sort .
I do n't think there be a girl in the Glen who be so unselfish and plucky a Rilla , or who have do her bit a thoroughly and patiently .
Our Junior Red Cross would have go on the rock a dozen time if it have n't be for her tact and perseverance and enthusiasm -- you know that perfectly well , Irene . ''
`` Why , I be not run Rilla down , '' say Irene , open her eye widely .
`` It be only her lack of feeling I be criticize .
I suppose she ca n't help it .
Of course , she 's a born manager -- everyone know that .
She 's very fond of managing , too -- and people like that be very necessary I admit .
So do n't look at me a if I 'd say something perfectly dreadful , Betty , please .
I 'm quite willing to agree that Rilla Blythe be the embodiment of all the virtue , if that will please you .
And no doubt it be a virtue to be quite unmoved by thing that would crush most people . ''
Some of Irene 's remark be report to Rilla ; but they do not hurt her a they would once have do .
They do n't matter , that be all .
Life be too big to leave room for pettiness .
She have a pact to keep and a work to do ; and through the long hard day and week of that disastrous autumn she be faithful to her task .
The war news be consistently bad , for Germany march from victory to victory over poor Rumania .
`` Foreigners -- foreigner , '' Susan mutter dubiously .
`` Russians or Rumanians or whatever they may be , they be foreigner and you can not tie to them .
But after Verdun I shall not give up hope .
And can you tell me , Mrs. Dr. dear , if the Dobruja be a river or a mountain range , or a condition of the atmosphere ? ''
The Presidential election in the United States come off in November , and Susan be red-hot over that -- and quite apologetic for her excitement .
`` I never think I would live to see the day when I would be interested in a Yankee election , Mrs. Dr. dear .
It only go to show we can never know what we will come to in this world , and therefore we should not be proud . ''
Susan stay up late on the evening of the eleventh , ostensibly to finish a pair of sock .
But she ` phone down to Carter Flagg 's store at interval , and when the first report come through that Hughes have be elect she stalk solemnly upstairs to Mrs. Blythe 's room and announce it in a thrill whisper from the foot of the bed .
`` I think if you be not asleep you would be interested in know it .
I believe it be for the best .
Perhaps he will just fall to write note , too , Mrs. Dr. dear , but I hope for good thing .
I never be very partial to whisker , but one can not have everything . ''
When news come in the morning that after all Wilson be re-elected , Susan tack to catch another breeze of optimism .
`` Well , good a fool you know than a fool you do not know , a the old proverb have it , '' she remark cheerfully .
`` Not that I hold Woodrow to be a fool by any mean , though by time you would not think he have the sense he be bear with .
But he be a good letter writer at least , and we do not know if the Hughes man be even that .
All thing be consider I commend the Yankees .
They have show good sense and I do not mind admit it .
Cousin Sophia want them to elect Roosevelt , and be much disgruntle because they would not give him a chance .
I have a hankering for him myself , but we must believe that Providence over-rules these matter and be satisfy -- though what the Almighty mean in this affair of Rumania I can not fathom -- say it with all reverence . ''
Susan fathom it -- or think she do -- when the Asquith ministry go down and Lloyd George become Premier .
`` Mrs. Dr. dear , Lloyd George be at the helm at last .
I have be pray for this for many a day .
Now we shall soon see a blessed change .
It take the Rumanian disaster to bring it about , no le , and that be the meaning of it , though I could not see it before .
There will be no more shilly-shallying .
I consider that the war be as good a won , and that I shall tie to , whether Bucharest fall or not . ''
Bucharest do fall -- and Germany propose peace negotiation .
Whereat Susan scornfully turn a deaf ear and absolutely refuse to listen to such proposal .
When President Wilson send his famous December peace note Susan wax violently sarcastic .
`` Woodrow Wilson be go to make peace , I understand .
First Henry Ford have a try at it and now come Wilson .
But peace be not make with ink , Woodrow , and that you may tie to , '' say Susan , apostrophize the unlucky President out of the kitchen window nearest the United States .
`` Lloyd George 's speech will tell the Kaiser what be what , and you may keep your peace screed at home and save postage . ''
`` What a pity President Wilson ca n't hear you , Susan , '' say Rilla slyly .
`` Indeed , Rilla dear , it be a pity that he have no one near him to give him good advice , a it be clear he have not , in all those Democrats and Republicans , '' retort Susan .
`` I do not know the difference between them , for the politics of the Yankees be a puzzle I can not solve , study it a I may .
But as far a see through a grindstone go , I be afraid -- '' Susan shake her head dubiously , `` that they be all tar with the same brush . ''
`` I be thankful Christmas be over , '' Rilla write in her diary during the last week of a stormy December .
`` We have dread it so -- the first Christmas since Courcelette .
But we have all the Merediths down for dinner and nobody try to be gay or cheerful .
We be all just quiet and friendly , and that help .
Then , too , I be so thankful that Jims have get well -- so thankful that I almost felt glad -- almost but not quite .
I wonder if I shall ever feel really glad over anything again .
It seem a if gladness be kill in me -- shoot down by the same bullet that pierce Walter 's heart .
Perhaps some day a new kind of gladness will be bear in my soul -- but the old kind will never live again .
`` Winter set in awfully early this year .
Ten day before Christmas we have a big snowstorm -- at least we think it big at the time .
As it happen , it be only a prelude to the real performance .
It be fine the next day , and Ingleside and Rainbow Valley be wonderful , with the tree all cover with snow , and big drift everywhere , carve into the most fantastic shape by the chisel of the northeast wind .
Father and mother go up to Avonlea .
Father think the change would do mother good , and they want to see poor Aunt Diana , whose son Jock have be seriously wound a short time before .
They leave Susan and me to keep house , and father expect to be back the next day .
But he never get back for a week .
That night it begin to storm again , and it storm unbrokenly for four day .
It be the bad and long storm that Prince Edward Island have know for year .
Everything be disorganize -- the road be completely choke up , the train blockade , and the telephone wire put entirely out of commission .
`` And then Jims take ill .
`` He have a little cold when father and mother go away , and he keep get bad for a couple of day , but it do n't occur to me that there be danger of anything serious .
I never even take his temperature , and I ca n't forgive myself , because it be sheer carelessness .
The truth be I have slump just then .
Mother be away , so I let myself go .
All at once I be tire of keep up and pretend to be brave and cheerful , and I just give up for a few day and spend most of the time lie on my face on my bed , cry .
I neglect Jims -- that be the hateful truth -- I be cowardly and false to what I promise Walter -- and if Jims have die I could never have forgive myself .
`` Then , the third night after father and mother go away , Jims suddenly get bad -- oh , so much bad -- all at once .
Susan and I be all alone .
Gertrude have be at Lowbridge when the storm begin and have never get back .
At first we be not much alarm .
Jims have have several bout of croup and Susan and Morgan and I have always bring him through without much trouble .
But it be n't very long before we be dreadfully alarm . '' '
I never saw croup like this before , ' say Susan .
`` As for me , I know , when it be too late , what kind of croup it be .
I know it be not the ordinary croup -- ` false croup ' a doctor call it -- but the ` true croup ' -- and I know that it be a deadly and dangerous thing .
And father be away and there be no doctor near than Lowbridge -- and we could not ` phone and neither horse nor man could get through the drift that night .
`` Gallant little Jims put up a good fight for his life , -- Susan and I try every remedy we could think of or find in father 's book , but he continue to grow bad .
It be heart-rending to see and hear him .
He gasp so horribly for breath -- the poor little soul -- and his face turn a dreadful bluish colour and have such an agonized expression , and he keep struggle with his little hand , a if he be appeal to u to help him somehow .
I find myself think that the boy who have be gas at the front must have look like that , and the thought haunt me amid all my dread and misery over Jims .
And all the time the fatal membrane in his wee throat grow and thicken and he could n't get it up .
`` Oh , I be just wild !
I never realize how dear Jims be to me until that moment .
And I felt so utterly helpless . ''
`` And then Susan give up .
` We can not save him !
Oh , if your father be here -- look at him , the poor little fellow !
I know not what to do . '
`` I look at Jims and I think he be die .
Susan be hold him up in his crib to give him a good chance for breath , but it do n't seem a if he could breathe at all .
My little war-baby , with his dear way and sweet roguish face , be choke to death before my very eyes , and I could n't help him .
I throw down the hot poultice I have ready in despair .
Of what use be it ?
Jims be die , and it be my fault -- I have n't be careful enough !
`` Just then -- at eleven o'clock at night -- the door bell rang .
Such a ring -- it peal all over the house above the roar of the storm .
Susan could n't go -- she dare not lay Jims down -- so I rush downstairs .
In the hall I pause just a minute -- I be suddenly overcome by an absurd dread .
I think of a weird story Gertrude have tell me once .
An aunt of hers be alone in a house one night with her sick husband .
She hear a knock at the door .
And when she go and open it there be nothing there -- nothing that could be see , at least .
But when she open the door a deadly cold wind blew in and seem to sweep past her right up the stair , although it be a calm , warm summer night outside .
Immediately she hear a cry .
She run upstairs -- and her husband be dead .
And she always believe , so Gertrude say , that when she open that door she let Death in .
`` It be so ridiculous of me to feel so frightened .
But I be distract and wear out , and I simply felt for a moment that I dare not open the door -- that death be wait outside .
Then I remember that I have no time to waste -- must not be so foolish -- I spring forward and open the door .
`` Certainly a cold wind do blow in and fill the hall with a whirl of snow .
But there on the threshold stand a form of flesh and blood -- Mary Vance , coat from head to foot with snow -- and she bring Life , not Death , with her , though I do n't know that then .
I just star at her . '' '
I have n't be turn out , ' grin Mary , a she step in and shut the door . '
I come up to Carter Flagg 's two day ago and I 've be stormed-stayed there ever since .
But old Abbie Flagg get on my nerve at last , and tonight I just make up my mind to come up here .
I think I could wade this far , but I can tell you it be as much a a bargain .
Once I think I be stick for keep .
Ai n't it an awful night ? '
`` I come to myself and know I must hurry upstairs .
I explain as quickly a I could to Mary , and leave her try to brush the snow off .
Upstairs I find that Jims be over that paroxysm , but almost as soon a I get back to the room he be in the grip of another .
I could n't do anything but moan and cry -- oh , how ashamed I be when I think of it ; and yet what could I do -- we have try everything we know -- and then all at once I hear Mary Vance say loudly behind me , ` Why , that child be die ! '
`` I whirl around .
Did n't I know he be die -- my little Jims !
I could have throw Mary Vance out of the door or the window -- anywhere -- at that moment .
There she stand , cool and compose , look down at my baby , with those , weird white eye of hers , a she might look at a choke kitten .
I have always dislike Mary Vance -- and just then I hat her . ''
` We have try everything , ' say poor Susan dully .
` It be not ordinary croup . ' ''
` No , it 's the dipthery croup , ' say Mary briskly , snatch up an apron .
` And there 's mighty little time to lose -- but I know what to do .
When I live over-harbour with Mrs. Wiley , year ago , Will Crawford 's kid die of dipthery croup , in spite of two doctor .
And when old Aunt Christina MacAllister heard of it -- she be the one bring me round when I nearly die of pneumonia you know -- she be a wonder -- no doctor be a patch on her -- they do n't hatch her breed of cat nowadays , let me tell you -- she say she could have save him with her grandmother 's remedy if she 'd be there .
She tell Mrs. Wiley what it be and I 've never forget it .
I 've the great memory ever -- a thing just lie in the back of my head till the time come to use it .
Got any sulphur in the house , Susan ? '
`` Yes , we have sulphur .
Susan go down with Mary to get it , and I hold Jims .
I have n't any hope -- not the least .
Mary Vance might brag a she like -- she be always brag -- but I do n't believe any grandmother 's remedy could save Jims now .
Presently Mary come back .
She have tie a piece of thick flannel over her mouth and nose , and she carry Susan 's old tin chip pan , half full of burn coal . ''
` You watch me , ' she say boastfully .
` I 've never do this , but it 's kill or cure that child be die anyway . '
`` She sprinkle a spoonful of sulphur over the coal ; and then she pick up Jims , turn him over , and hold him face downward , right over those choke , blind fume .
I do n't know why I do n't spring forward and snatch him away .
Susan say it be because it be fore-ordained that I should n't , and I think she be right , because it do really seem that I be powerless to move .
Susan herself seem transfixed , watch Mary from the doorway .
Jims writhe in those big , firm , capable hand of Mary -- oh yes , she be capable all right -- and choke and wheeze -- and choke and wheeze -- and I felt that he be be torture to death -- and then all at once , after what seem to me an hour , though it really be n't long , he cough up the membrane that be kill him .
Mary turn him over and lay him back on his bed .
He be white a marble and the tear be pour out of his brown eye -- but that awful livid look be go from his face and he could breathe quite easily . ''
` Was n't that some trick ? '
say Mary gaily . '
I have n't any idea how it would work , but I just take a chance .
I 'll smoke his throat out again once or twice before morning , just to kill all the germ , but you 'll see he 'll be all right now . '
`` Jims go right to sleep -- real sleep , not coma , a I fear at first .
Mary ` smoke him , ' a she call it , twice through the night , and at daylight his throat be perfectly clear and his temperature be almost normal .
When I make sure of that I turn and look at Mary Vance .
She be sit on the lounge lay down the law to Susan on some subject about which Susan must have know forty time as much a she do .
But I do n't mind how much law she lay down or how much she brag .
She have a right to brag -- she have dare to do what I would never have dare , and have save Jims from a horrible death .
It do n't matter any more that she have once chase me through the Glen with a codfish ; it do n't matter that she have smear goose-grease all over my dream of romance the night of the lighthouse dance ; it do n't matter that she think she know more than anybody else and always rub it in -- I would never dislike Mary Vance again .
I go over to her and kiss her . ''
` What 's up now ? '
she say . ''
` Nothing -- only I 'm so grateful to you , Mary . ' ''
` Well , I think you ought to be , that 's a fact .
You two would have let that baby die on your hand if I have n't happen along , ' say Mary , just beam with complacency .
She get Susan and me a tip-top breakfast and make u eat it , and ` boss the life out of u , ' a Susan say , for two day , until the road be open so that she could get home .
Jims be almost well by that time , and father turn up .
He hear our tale without say much .
Father be rather scornful generally about what he call ` old wife ' remedy . '
He laugh a little and say , ` After this , Mary Vance will expect me to call her in for consultation in all my serious case . '
`` So Christmas be not so hard a I expect it to be ; and now the New Year be come -- and we be still hop for the ` Big Push ' that will end the war -- and Little Dog Monday be get stiff and rheumatic from his cold vigil , but still he ` carry on , ' and Shirley continue to read the exploit of the ace .
Oh , nineteen-seventeen , what will you bring ? ''
CHAPTER XXV SHIRLEY GOES `` No , Woodrow , there will be no peace without victory , '' say Susan , stick her knitting needle viciously through President Wilson 's name in the newspaper column .
`` We Canadians mean to have peace and victory , too .
You , if it please you , Woodrow , can have the peace without the victory '' -- and Susan stalk off to bed with the comfortable consciousness of have get the good of the argument with the President .
But a few day later she rush to Mrs. Blythe in red-hot excitement .
`` Mrs. Dr. dear , what do you think ?
A ` phone message have just come through from Charlottetown that Woodrow Wilson have send that German ambassador man to the right about at last .
They tell me that mean war .
So I begin to think that Woodrow 's heart be in the right place after all , wherever his head may be , and I be go to commandeer a little sugar and celebrate the occasion with some fudge , despite the howl of the Food Board .
I think that submarine business would bring thing to a crisis .
I tell Cousin Sophia so when she say it be the beginning of the end for the Allies . ''
`` Do n't let the doctor hear of the fudge , Susan , '' say Anne , with a smile .
`` You know he have lay down very strict rule for u along the line of economy the government have ask for . ''
`` Yes , Mrs. Dr. dear , and a man should be master in his own household , and his woman folk should bow to his decree .
I flatter myself that I be become quite efficient in economize '' -- Susan have take to use certain German term with kill effect -- `` but one can exercise a little gumption on the quiet now and then .
Shirley be wish for some of my fudge the other day -- the Susan brand , a he call it -- and I say ` The first victory there be to celebrate I shall make you some . '
I consider this news quite equal to a victory , and what the doctor do not know will never grieve him .
I take the whole responsibility , Mrs. Dr. dear , so do not you vex your conscience . ''
Susan spoil Shirley shamelessly that winter .
He come home from Queen 's every week-end , and Susan have all his favourite dish for him , in so far a she could evade or wheedle the doctor , and wait on him hand and foot .
Though she talk war constantly to everyone else she never mention it to him or before him , but she watch him like a cat watch a mouse ; and when the German retreat from the Bapaume salient begin and continue , Susan 's exultation be link up with something deep than anything she express .
Surely the end be in sight -- would come now before -- anyone else -- could go .
`` Things be come our way at last .
We have get the Germans on the run , '' she boast .
`` The United States have declare war at last , a I always believe they would , in spite of Woodrow 's gift for letter writing , and you will see they will go into it with a vim since I understand that be their habit , when they do start .
And we have get the Germans on the run , too . ''
`` The States mean well , '' moan Cousin Sophia , `` but all the vim in the world can not put them on the fighting line this spring , and the Allies will be finish before that .
The Germans be just lure them on .
That man Simonds say their retreat have put the Allies in a hole . ''
`` That man Simonds have say more than he will ever live to make good , '' retort Susan .
`` I do not worry myself about his opinion as long a Lloyd George be Premier of England .
He will not be bamboozle and that you may tie to .
Things look good to me .
The U. S. be in the war , and we have get Kut and Bagdad back -- and I would not be surprise to see the Allies in Berlin by June -- and the Russians , too , since they have get rid of the Czar .
That , in my opinion be a good piece of work . ''
`` Time will show if it be , '' say Cousin Sophia , who would have be very indignant if anyone have tell her that she would rather see Susan put to shame a a seer , than a successful overthrow of tyranny , or even the march of the Allies down Unter den Linden .
But then the woe of the Russian people be quite unknown to Cousin Sophia , while this aggravating , optimistic Susan be an ever-present thorn in her side .
Just at that moment Shirley be sit on the edge of the table in the living-room , swing his leg -- a brown , ruddy , wholesome lad , from top to toe , every inch of him -- and say coolly , `` Mother and dad , I be eighteen last Monday .
Do n't you think it 's about time I join up ? ''
The pale mother look at him .
`` Two of my son have go and one will never return .
Must I give you too , Shirley ? ''
The age-old cry -- `` Joseph be not and Simeon be not ; and ye will take Benjamin away . ''
How the mother of the Great War echo the old Patriarch 's moan of so many century agone !
`` You would n't have me a slacker , mother ?
I can get into the flying-corps .
What say , dad ? ''
The doctor 's hand be not quite steady a he fold up the powder he be concoct for Abbie Flagg 's rheumatism .
He have know this moment be come , yet he be not altogether prepared for it .
He answer slowly , `` I wo n't try to hold you back from what you believe to be your duty .
But you must not go unless your mother say you may . ''
Shirley say nothing more .
He be not a lad of many word .
Anne do not say anything more just then , either .
She be think of little Joyce 's grave in the old burying-ground over-harbour -- little Joyce who would have be a woman now , have she live -- of the white cross in France and the splendid grey eye of the little boy who have be teach his first lesson of duty and loyalty at her knee -- of Jem in the terrible trench -- of Nan and Di and Rilla , wait -- wait -- wait , while the golden year of youth pass by -- and she wonder if she could bear any more .
She think not ; surely she have give enough .
Yet that night she tell Shirley that he might go .
They do not tell Susan right away .
She do not know it until , a few day later , Shirley present himself in her kitchen in his aviation uniform .
Susan do n't make half the fuss she have make when Jem and Walter have go .
She say stonily , `` So they 're go to take you , too . ''
`` Take me ?
No .
I 'm go , Susan -- get to . ''
Susan sit down by the table , fold her knot old hand , that have grow warped and twisted working for the Ingleside child to still their shaking , and say : `` Yes , you must go .
I do not see once why such thing must be , but I can see now . ''
`` You 're a brick , Susan , '' say Shirley .
He be relieve that she take it so coolly -- he have be a little afraid , with a boy 's horror of `` a scene . ''
He go out whistle gaily ; but half an hour later , when pale Anne Blythe come in , Susan be still sit there .
`` Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan , make an admission she would once have die rather than make , `` I feel very old .
Jem and Walter be yours but Shirley be mine .
And I can not bear to think of him fly -- his machine crash down -- the life crush out of his body -- the dear little body I nurse and cuddle when he be a wee baby . ''
`` Susan -- do n't , '' cry Anne .
`` Oh , Mrs. Dr. dear , I beg your pardon .
I ought not to have say anything like that out loud .
I sometimes forget that I resolve to be a heroine .
This -- this have shake me a little .
But I will not forget myself again .
Only if thing do not go a smoothly in the kitchen for a few day I hope you will make due allowance for me .
At least , '' say poor Susan , force a grim smile in a desperate effort to recover lose standing , `` at least fly be a clean job .
He will not get so dirty and mess up a he would in the trench , and that be well , for he have always be a tidy child . ''
So Shirley go -- not radiantly , a to a high adventure , like Jem , not in a white flame of sacrifice , like Walter , but in a cool , business-like mood , a of one do something , rather dirty and disagreeable , that have just get to be do .
He kiss Susan for the first time since he be five year old , and say , `` Good-bye , Susan -- mother Susan . ''
`` My little brown boy -- my little brown boy , '' say Susan .
`` I wonder , '' she think bitterly , a she look at the doctor 's sorrowful face , `` if you remember how you spank him once when he be a baby .
I be thankful I have nothing like that on my conscience now . ''
The doctor do not remember the old discipline .
But before he put on his hat to go out on his round of call he stand for a moment in the great silent living-room that have once be full of child 's laughter .
`` Our last son -- our last son , '' he say aloud .
`` A good , sturdy , sensible lad , too .
Always remind me of my father .
I suppose I ought to be proud that he want to go -- I be proud when Jem go -- even when Walter go -- but ` our house be leave u desolate . ' ''
`` I have be think , doctor , '' old Sandy of the Upper Glen say to him that afternoon , `` that your house will be seem very big the day . ''
Highland Sandy 's quaint phrase strike the doctor a perfectly expressive .
Ingleside do seem very big and empty that night .
Yet Shirley have be away all winter except for week-ends , and have always be a quiet fellow even when home .
Was it because he have be the only one leave that his go seem to leave such a huge blank -- that every room seem vacant and desert -- that the very tree on the lawn seem to be try to comfort each other with caress of freshly-budding bough for the loss of the last of the little lad who have romp under them in childhood ?
Susan work very hard all day and late into the night .
When she have wound the kitchen clock and put Dr. Jekyll out , none too gently , she stand for a little while on the doorstep , look down the Glen , which lay trance in faint , silvery light from a sinking young moon .
But Susan do not see the familiar hill and harbour .
She be look at the aviation camp in Kingsport where Shirley be that night .
`` He call me ` Mother Susan , ' '' she be think .
`` Well , all our men folk have go now -- Jem and Walter and Shirley and Jerry and Carl .
And none of them have to be drive to it .
So we have a right to be proud .
But pride -- '' Susan sigh bitterly -- `` pride be cold company and that there be no gainsaying . ''
The moon sink low into a black cloud in the west , the Glen go out in an eclipse of sudden shadow -- and thousand of mile away the Canadian boy in khaki -- the living and the dead -- be in possession of Vimy Ridge .
Vimy Ridge be a name write in crimson and gold on the Canadian annals of the Great War .
`` The British could n't take it and the French could n't take it , '' say a German prisoner to his captor , `` but you Canadians be such fool that you do n't know when a place ca n't be take ! ''
So the `` fools '' take it -- and pay the price .
Jerry Meredith be seriously wound at Vimy Ridge -- shot in the back , the telegram say .
`` Poor Nan , '' say Mrs. Blythe , when the news come .
She think of her own happy girlhood at old Green Gables .
There have be no tragedy like this in it .
How the girl of to-day have to suffer !
When Nan come home from Redmond two week later her face show what those week have mean to her .
John Meredith , too , seem to have grow old suddenly in them .
Faith do not come home ; she be on her way across the Atlantic a a V.A.D . Di have try to wring from her father consent to her go also , but have be tell that for her mother 's sake it could not be give .
So Di , after a fly visit home , go back to her Red Cross work in Kingsport .
The mayflower bloom in the secret nook of Rainbow Valley .
Rilla be watch for them .
Jem have once take his mother the early mayflower ; Walter bring them to her when Jem be go ; last spring Shirley have seek them out for her ; now , Rilla think she must take the boy ' place in this .
But before she have discover any , Bruce Meredith come to Ingleside one twilight with his hand full of delicate pink spray .
He stalk up the step of the veranda and lay them on Mrs. Blythe 's lap .
`` Because Shirley be n't here to bring them , '' he say in his funny , shy , blunt way .
`` And you think of this , you darling , '' say Anne , her lip quiver , a she look at the stocky , black-browed little chap , stand before her , with his hand thrust into his pocket .
`` I write Jem to-day and tell him not to worry ` bout you not get your mayflower , '' say Bruce seriously , '' 'cause I 'd see to that .
And I tell him I would be ten pretty soon now , so it wo n't be very long before I 'll be eighteen , and then I 'll go to help him fight , and maybe let him come home for a rest while I take his place .
I write Jerry , too .
Jerry 's get well , you know . ''
`` Is he ?
Have you have any good news about him ? ''
`` Yes .
Mother have a letter to-day , and it say he be out of danger . ''
`` Oh , thank God , '' murmur Mrs. Blythe , in a half-whisper .
Bruce look at her curiously .
`` That be what father say when mother tell him .
But when l say it the other day when I find out Mr. Mead 's dog have n't hurt my kitten -- I think he have shooken it to death , you know -- father look awful solemn and say I must never say that again about a kitten .
But I could n't understand why , Mrs. Blythe .
I felt awful thankful , and it must have be God that save Stripey , because that Mead dog have ` normous jaw , and oh , how it shake poor Stripey .
And so why could n't I thank Him ?
` Course , '' add Bruce reminiscently , `` maybe I say it too loud -- 'cause I be awful glad and excite when I find Stripey be all right .
I ` most shout it , Mrs. Blythe .
Maybe if I 'd say it sort of whispery like you and father it would have be all right .
Do you know , Mrs. Blythe '' -- Bruce drop to a `` whispery '' tone , edge a little nearer to Anne -- `` what I would like to do to the Kaiser if I could ? ''
`` What would you like to do , laddie ? ''
`` Norman Reese say in school to-day that he would like to tie the Kaiser to a tree and set cross dog to worry him , '' say Bruce gravely .
`` And Emily Flagg say she would like to put him in a cage and poke sharp thing into him .
And they all say thing like that .
But Mrs. Blythe '' -- Bruce take a little square paw out of his pocket and put it earnestly on Anne 's knee -- `` I would like to turn the Kaiser into a good man -- a very good man -- all at once if I could .
That be what I would do .
Do n't you think , Mrs. Blythe , that would be the very worst punishment of all ? ''
`` Bless the child , '' say Susan , `` how do you make out that would be any kind of a punishment for that wicked fiend ? ''
`` Do n't you see , '' say Bruce , look levelly at Susan , out of his blackly blue eye , `` if he be turn into a good man he would understand how dreadful the thing he have do be , and he would feel so terrible about it that he would be more unhappy and miserable than he could ever be in any other way .
He would feel just awful -- and he would go on feeling like that forever .
Yes '' -- Bruce clench his hand and nod his head emphatically , `` yes , I would make the Kaiser a good man -- that be what I would do -- it would serve him ` zackly right . ''
CHAPTER XXVI SUSAN HAS A PROPOSAL OF MARRIAGE An aeroplane be fly over Glen St. Mary , like a great bird poise against the western sky -- a sky so clear and of such a pale , silvery yellow , that it give an impression of a vast , wind-freshened space of freedom .
The little group on the Ingleside lawn look up at it with fascinated eye , although it be by no mean an unusual thing to see an occasional hovering plane that summer .
Susan be always intensely excite .
Who know but that it might be Shirley away up there in the cloud , fly over to the Island from Kingsport ?
But Shirley have go overseas now , so Susan be not so keenly interested in this particular aeroplane and it pilot .
Nevertheless , she look at it with awe .
`` I wonder , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' she say solemnly , `` what the old folk down there in the graveyard would think if they could rise out of their graf for one moment and behold that sight .
I be sure my father would disapprove of it , for he be a man who do not believe in new-fangled idea of any sort .
He always cut his grain with a reap hook to the day of his death .
A mower he would not have .
What be good enough for his father be good enough for him , he use to say .
I hope it be not unfilial to say that I think he be wrong in that point of view , but I be not sure I go so far a to approve of aeroplane , though they may be a military necessity .
If the Almighty have mean u to fly he would have provide u with wing .
Since He do not it be plain He mean u to stick to the solid earth .
At any rate , you will never see me , Mrs. Dr. dear , cavort through the sky in an aeroplane . ''
`` But you wo n't refuse to cavort a bit in father 's new automobile when it come , will you , Susan ? ''
tease Rilla .
`` I do not expect to trust my old bone in automobile , either , '' retort Susan .
`` But I do not look upon them a some narrow-minded people do .
Whiskers-on-the-moon say the Government should be turn out of office for permit them to run on the Island at all .
He foam at the mouth , they tell me , when he see one .
The other day he saw one come along that narrow side-road by his wheatfield , and Whiskers bound over the fence and stand right in the middle of the road , with his pitchfork .
The man in the machine be an agent of some kind , and Whiskers hat agent as much a he hat automobile .
He make the car come to a halt , because there be not room to pass him on either side , and the agent could not actually run over him .
Then he raise his pitchfork and shout , ` Get out of this with your devil-machine or I will run this pitchfork clean through you . '
And Mrs. Dr. dear , if you will believe me , that poor agent have to back his car clean out to the Lowbridge road , nearly a mile , Whiskers follow him every step , shake his pitchfork and bellowing insult .
Now , Mrs. Dr. dear , I call such conduct unreasonable ; but all the same , '' add Susan , with a sigh , `` what with aeroplane and automobile and all the rest of it , this Island be not what it use to be . ''
The aeroplane soar and dip and circle , and soar again , until it become a mere speck far over the sunset hill . ''
` With the majesty of pinion Which the Theban eagle bear Sailing with supreme dominion Through the azure field of air . ' ''
quote Anne Blythe dreamily .
`` I wonder , '' say Miss Oliver , `` if humanity will be any happy because of aeroplane .
It seem to me that the sum of human happiness remain much the same from age to age , no matter how it may vary in distribution , and that all the ` many invention ' neither lessen nor increase it . ''
`` After all , the ` kingdom of heaven be within you , ' '' say Mr. Meredith , gaze after the vanishing speck which symbolize man 's late victory in a world-old struggle .
`` It do not depend on material achievement and triumph . ''
`` Nevertheless , an aeroplane be a fascinating thing , '' say the doctor .
`` It have always be one of humanity 's favourite dream -- the dream of fly .
Dream after dream come true -- or rather be make true by persevere effort .
I should like to have a flight in an aeroplane myself . ''
`` Shirley write me that he be dreadfully disappoint in his first flight , '' say Rilla .
`` He have expect to experience the sensation of soar up from the earth like a bird -- and instead he just have the feeling that he be n't move at all , but that the earth be drop away under him .
And the first time he go up alone he suddenly felt terribly homesick .
He have never felt like that before ; but all at once , he say , he felt a if he be adrift in space -- and he have a wild desire to get back home to the old planet and the companionship of fellow creature .
He soon get over that feeling , but he say his first flight alone be a nightmare to him because of that dreadful sensation of ghastly loneliness . ''
The aeroplane disappear .
The doctor throw back his head with a sigh .
`` When I have watch one of those bird-men out of sight I come back to earth with an odd feeling of be merely a crawling insect .
Anne , '' he say , turn to his wife , `` do you remember the first time I take you for a buggy ride in Avonlea -- that night we go to the Carmody concert , the first fall you teach in Avonlea ?
I have out little black mare with the white star on her forehead , and a shin brand-new buggy -- and I be the proud fellow in the world , bar none .
I suppose our grandson will be take his sweetheart out quite casually for an evening ` fly ' in his aeroplane . ''
`` An aeroplane wo n't be as nice a little Silverspot be , '' say Anne .
`` A machine be simply a machine -- but Silverspot , why she be a personality , Gilbert .
A drive behind her have something in it that not even a flight among sunset cloud could have .
No , I do n't envy my grandson 's sweetheart , after all .
Mr. Meredith be right .
` The kingdom of Heaven ' -- and of love -- and of happiness -- do n't depend on external . ''
`` Besides , '' say the doctor gravely , `` our say grandson will have to give most of his attention to the aeroplane -- he wo n't be able to let the rein lie on it back while he gaze into his lady 's eye .
And I have an awful suspicion that you ca n't run an aeroplane with one arm .
No '' -- the doctor shake his head -- `` I believe I 'd still prefer Silverspot after all . ''
The Russian line break again that summer and Susan say bitterly that she have expect it ever since Kerensky have go and get marry .
`` Far be it from me to decry the holy state of matrimony , Mrs. Dr. dear , but I felt that when a man be run a revolution he have his hand full and should have postpone marriage until a more fitting season .
The Russians be do for this time and there would be no sense in shut our eye to the fact .
But have you see Woodrow Wilson 's reply to the Pope 's peace proposal ?
It be magnificent .
I really could not have express the right of the matter well myself .
I feel that I can forgive Wilson everything for it .
He know the meaning of word and that you may tie to .
Speaking of meaning , have you hear the late story about Whiskers-on-the-moon , Mrs. Dr. dear ?
It seem he be over at the Lowbridge Road school the other day and take a notion to examine the fourth class in spell .
They have the summer term there yet , you know , with the spring and fall vacation , be rather backward people on that road .
My niece , Ella Baker , go to that school and she it be who tell me the story .
The teacher be not feel well , have a dreadful headache , and she go out to get a little fresh air while Mr. Pryor be examine the class .
The child get along all right with the spelling but when Whiskers begin to question them about the meaning of the word they be all at sea , because they have not learn them .
Ella and the other big scholar felt terrible over it .
They love their teacher so , and it seem Mr. Pryor 's brother , Abel Pryor , who be trustee of that school , be against her and have be try to turn the other trustee over to his way of thinking .
And Ella and the rest be afraid that if the fourth class could n't tell Whiskers the meaning of the word he would think the teacher be no good and tell Abel so , and Abel would have a fine handle .
But little Sandy Logan save the situation .
He be a Home boy , but he be as smart a a steel trap , and he size up Whiskers-on-the-moon right off .
` What do `` anatomy '' mean ? '
Whiskers demand . '
A pain in your stomach , ' Sandy reply , quick a a flash and never bat an eyelid .
Whiskers-on-the-moon be a very ignorant man , Mrs. Dr. dear ; he do n't know the meaning of the word himself , and he say ` Very good -- very good . '
The class catch right on -- at least three or four of the brighter one do -- and they keep up the fun .
Jean Blane say that ` acoustic ' meant ' a religious squabble , ' and Muriel Baker say that an ` agnostic ' be ' a man who have indigestion , ' and Jim Carter say that ` acerbity ' meant that ` you eat nothing but vegetable food , ' and so on all down the list .
Whiskers swallow it all , and keep say ` Very good -- very good ' until Ella think that die she would try to keep a straight face .
When the teacher come in , Whiskers compliment her on the splendid understand the child have of their lesson and say he mean to tell the trustee what a jewel they have .
It be ` very unusual , ' he say , to find a fourth class who could answer up so prompt when it come to explain what word meant .
He go off beaming .
But Ella tell me this a a great secret , Mrs. Dr. dear , and we must keep it a such , for the sake of the Lowbridge Road teacher .
It would likely be the ruin of her chance of keep the school if Whiskers should ever find out how he have be bamboozle . ''
Mary Vance come up to Ingleside that same afternoon to tell them that Miller Douglas , who have be wound when the Canadians take Hill 70 , have have to have his leg amputate .
The Ingleside folk sympathize with Mary , whose zeal and patriotism have take some time to kindle but now burn with a glow a steady and bright a any one 's .
`` Some folk have be twit me about have a husband with only one leg .
But , '' say Mary , rise to a lofty height , `` I would rather Miller with only one leg than any other man in the world with a dozen -- unless , '' she add a an after-thought , `` unless it be Lloyd George .
Well , I must be go .
I think you 'd be interested in hear about Miller so I run up from the store , but I must hustle home for I promise Luke MacAllister I 'd help him build his grain stack this evening .
It 's up to u girl to see that the harvest be get in , since the boy be so scarce .
I 've get overall and I can tell you they 're real become .
Mrs. Alec Douglas say they 're indecent and should n't be allow , and even Mrs. Elliott kinder look askance at them .
But bless you , the world move , and anyhow there 's no fun for me like shock Kitty Alec . ''
`` By the way , father , '' say Rilla , `` I 'm go to take Jack Flagg 's place in his father 's store for a month .
I promise him today that I would , if you do n't object .
Then he can help the farmer get the harvest in .
I do n't think I 'd be much use in a harvest myself -- though lot of the girl be -- but I can set Jack free while I do his work .
Jims be n't much bother in the daytime now , and I 'll always be home at night . ''
`` Do you think you 'll like weigh out sugar and bean , and traffic in butter and egg ? ''
say the doctor , twinkle .
`` Probably not .
That be n't the question .
It 's just one way of do my bit . ''
So Rilla go behind Mr. Flagg 's counter for a month ; and Susan go into Albert Crawford 's oat-fields .
`` I be as good a any of them yet , '' she say proudly .
`` Not a man of them can beat me when it come to build a stack .
When I offer to help Albert look doubtful . '
I be afraid the work will be too hard for you , ' he say .
` Try me for a day and see , ' say I. ' I will do my darned . ' ''
None of the Ingleside folk speak for just a moment .
Their silence mean that they think Susan 's pluck in `` work out '' quite wonderful .
But Susan mistake their meaning and her sun-burned face grow red .
`` This habit of swear seem to be grow on me , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' she say apologetically .
`` To think that I should be acquire it at my age !
It be such a dreadful example to the young girl .
I be of the opinion it come of read the newspaper so much .
They be so full of profanity and they do not spell it with star either , a use to be do in my young day .
This war be demoralize everybody . ''
Susan , stand on a load of grain , her grey hair whip in the breeze and her skirt kilted up to her knee for safety and convenience -- no overall for Susan , if you please -- neither a beautiful nor a romantic figure ; but the spirit that animate her gaunt arm be the self-same one that capture Vimy Ridge and hold the German legion back from Verdun .
It be not the least likely , however , that this consideration be the one which appeal most strongly to Mr. Pryor when he drive past one afternoon and saw Susan pitch sheaf gamely .
`` Smart woman that , '' he reflect .
`` Worth two of many a young one yet .
I might do bad -- I might do bad .
If Milgrave come home alive I 'll lose Miranda and hire housekeeper cost more than a wife and be liable to leave a man in the lurch any time .
I 'll think it over . ''
A week later Mrs. Blythe , come up from the village late in the afternoon , pause at the gate of Ingleside in an amazement which temporarily bereft her of the power of motion .
An extraordinary sight meet her eye .
Round the end of the kitchen burst Mr. Pryor , run a stout , pompous Mr. Pryor have not run in year , with terror imprint on every lineament -- a terror quite justifiable , for behind him , like an avenge fate , come Susan , with a huge , smoke iron pot grasp in her hand , and an expression in her eye that bode ill to the object of her indignation , if she should overtake him .
Pursuer and pursue tore across the lawn .
Mr. Pryor reach the gate a few foot ahead of Susan , wrench it open , and flee down the road , without a glance at the transfixed lady of Ingleside .
`` Susan , '' gasp Anne .
Susan halt in her mad career , set down her pot , and shake her fist after Mr. Pryor , who have not cease to run , evidently believe that Susan be still full cry after him .
`` Susan , what do this mean ? ''
demand Anne , a little severely .
`` You may well ask that , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' Susan reply wrathfully .
`` I have not be so upset in year .
That -- that -- that pacifist have actually have the audacity to come up here and , in my own kitchen , to ask me to marry him .
HIM ! ''
Anne choke back a laugh .
`` But -- Susan !
Could n't you have find a -- well , a less spectacular method of refuse him ?
Think what a gossip this would have make if anyone have be go past and have see such a performance . ''
`` Indeed , Mrs. Dr. dear , you be quite right .
I do not think of it because I be quite past thinking rationally .
I be just clean mad .
Come in the house and I will tell you all about it . ''
Susan pick up her pot and march into the kitchen , still tremble with wrathful excitement .
She set her pot on the stove with a vicious thud .
`` Wait a moment until I open all the window to air this kitchen well , Mrs. Dr. dear .
There , that be well .
And I must wash my hand , too , because I shake hand with Whiskers-on-the-moon when he come in -- not that I want to , but when he stick out his fat , oily hand I do not know just what else to do at the moment .
I have just finish my afternoon cleaning and thanks be , everything be shin and spotless ; and think I ` now that dye be boil and I will get my rug rag and have them nicely out of the way before supper . '
`` Just then a shadow fell over the floor and look up I saw Whiskers-on-the-moon , stand in the doorway , dress up and look a if he have just be starch and iron .
I shake hand with him , a aforesaid , Mrs. Dr. dear , and tell him you and the doctor be both away .
But he say , `` I have come to see you , Miss Baker . '
`` I ask him to sit down , for the sake of my own manner , and then I stand there right in the middle of the floor and gaze at him as contemptuously a I could .
In spite of his brazen assurance this seem to rattle him a little ; but he begin try to look sentimental at me out of his little piggy eye , and all at once an awful suspicion flash into my mind .
Something tell me , Mrs. Dr. dear , that I be about to receive my first proposal .
I have always think that I would like to have just one offer of marriage to reject , so that I might be able to look other woman in the face , but you will not hear me brag of this .
I consider it an insult and if I could have think of any way of prevent it I would .
But just then , Mrs. Dr. dear , you will see I be at a disadvantage , be take so completely by surprise .
Some men , I be told , consider a little preliminary court the proper thing before a proposal , if only to give fair warning of their intention ; but Whiskers-on-the-moon probably think it be any port in a storm for me and that I would jump at him .
Well , he be undeceived -- yes , he be undeceived , Mrs. Dr. dear .
I wonder if he have stop run yet . ''
`` I understand that you do n't feel flattered , Susan .
But could n't you have refuse him a little more delicately than by chase him off the premise in such a fashion ? ''
`` Well , maybe I might have , Mrs. Dr. dear , and I intend to , but one remark he make aggravate me beyond my power of endurance .
If it have not be for that I would not have chase him with my dye-pot .
I will tell you the whole interview .
Whiskers sit down , a I have say , and right beside him on another chair Doc be lie .
The animal be pretend to be asleep but I know very well he be not , for he have be Hyde all day and Hyde never sleep .
By the way , Mrs. Dr. dear , have you notice that that cat be far oftener Hyde than Jekyll now ?
The more victory Germany win the Hyder he become .
I leave you to draw your own conclusion from that .
I suppose Whiskers think he might curry favour with me by praise the creature , little dream what my real sentiment towards it be , so he stick out his pudgy hand and stroke Mr. Hyde 's back .
` What a nice cat , ' he say .
The nice cat fly at him and bite him .
Then it give a fearful yowl , and bound out of the door .
Whiskers look after it quite amaze .
` That be a queer kind of a varmint , ' he say .
I agree with him on that point , but I be not go to let him see it .
Besides , what business have he to call our cat a varmint ?
` It may be a varmint or it may not , ' I say , ` but it know the difference between a Canadian and a Hun . '
You would have think , would you not , Mrs. Dr. dear , that a hint like that would have be enough for him !
But it go no deep than his skin .
I saw him settle back quite comfortable , a if for a good talk , and think I , ` If there be anything come it may as well come soon and be do with , for with all these rag to dye before supper I have no time to waste in flirting , ' so I speak right out .
` If you have anything particular to discuss with me , Mr. Pryor , I would feel obliged if you would mention it without loss of time , because I be very busy this afternoon . '
He fairly beam at me out of that circle of red whisker , and say , ` You be a business-like woman and I agree with you .
There be no use in waste time beat around the bush .
I come up here today to ask you to marry me . '
So there it be , Mrs. Dr. dear .
I have a proposal at last , after wait sixty-four year for one .
`` I just glare at that presumptuous creature and I say , ' I would not marry you if you be the last man on earth , Josiah Pryor .
So there you have my answer and you can take it away forthwith . '
You never saw a man so take aback a he be , Mrs. Dr. dear .
He be so flabbergasted that he just blurt out the truth .
` Why , I think you 'd be only too glad to get a chance to be marry , ' he say .
That be when I lose my head , Mrs. Dr. dear .
Do you think I have a good excuse , when a Hun and a pacifist make such an insulting remark to me ?
` Go , ' I thunder , and I just catch up that iron pot .
I could see that he think I have suddenly go insane , and I suppose he consider an iron pot full of boil dye be a dangerous weapon in the hand of a lunatic .
At any rate he go , and stand not upon the order of his go , a you saw for yourself .
And I do not think we will see him back here propose to u again in a hurry .
No , I think he have learn that there be at least one single woman in Glen St. Mary who have no hankering to become Mrs. Whiskers-on-the-moon . ''
CHAPTER XXVII WAITING Ingleside , 1st November 1917 `` It be November -- and the Glen be all grey and brown , except where the Lombardy poplar stand up here and there like great golden torch in the sombre landscape , although every other tree have shed it leaf .
It have be very hard to keep our courage alight of late .
The Caporetto disaster be a dreadful thing and not even Susan can extract much consolation out of the present state of affair .
The rest of u do n't try .
Gertrude keep say desperately , ` They must not get Venice -- they must not get Venice , ' a if by say it often enough she can prevent them .
But what be to prevent them from get Venice I can not see .
Yet , a Susan fail not to point out , there be seemingly nothing to prevent them from get to Paris in 1914 , yet they do not get it , and she affirm they shall not get Venice either .
Oh , how I hope and pray they will not -- Venice the beautiful Queen of the Adriatic .
Although I 've never see it I feel about it just a Byron do -- I 've always love it -- it have always be to me ' a fairy city of the heart . '
Perhaps I catch my love of it from Walter , who worship it .
It be always one of his dream to see Venice .
I remember we plan once -- down in Rainbow Valley one evening just before the war break out -- that some time we would go together to see it and float in a gondola through it moonlit street .
`` Every fall since the war begin there have be some terrible blow to our troop -- Antwerp in 1914 , Serbia in 1915 ; last fall , Rumania , and now Italy , the bad of all .
I think I would give up in despair if it be not for what Walter say in his dear last letter -- that ` the dead as well a the living be fight on our side and such an army can not be defeat . '
No it can not .
We will win in the end .
I will not doubt it for one moment .
To let myself doubt would be to ` break faith . '
`` We have all be campaign furiously of late for the new Victory Loan .
We Junior Reds canvass diligently and land several tough old customer who have at first flatly refuse to invest .
I -- even I -- tackle Whiskers-on-the-moon .
I expect a bad time and a refusal .
But to my amazement he be quite agreeable and promise on the spot to take a thousand dollar bond .
He may be a pacifist , but he know a good investment when it be hand out to him .
Five and a half per cent be finve and a half per cent , even when a militaristic government pay it .
`` Father , to tease Susan , say it be her speech at the Victory Loan Campaign meeting that convert Mr. Pryor .
I do n't think that at all likely , since Mr. Pryor have be publicly very bitter against Susan ever since her quite unmistakable rejection of his lover-like advance .
But Susan do make a speech -- and the best one make at the meeting , too .
It be the first time she ever do such a thing and she vow it will be the last .
Everybody in the Glen be at the meeting , and quite a number of speech be make , but somehow thing be a little flat and no especial enthusiasm could be work up .
Susan be quite dismay at the lack of zeal , because she have be burningly anxious that the Island should go over the top in regard to it quota .
She keep whisper viciously to Gertrude and me that there be ` no ginger ' in the speech ; and when nobody go forward to subscribe to the loan at the close Susan ` lose her head . '
At least , that be how she describe it herself .
She bound to her foot , her face grim and set under her bonnet -- Susan be the only woman in Glen St. Mary who still wear a bonnet -- and say sarcastically and loudly , ` No doubt it be much cheap to talk patriotism than it be to pay for it .
And we be ask charity , of course -- we be ask you to lend u your money for nothing !
No doubt the Kaiser will feel quite downcast when he hear of this meeting ! ''
`` Susan have an unshaken belief that the Kaiser 's spy -- presumably represent by Mr. Pryor -- promptly inform him of every happening in our Glen .
`` Norman Douglas shout out ` Hear !
Hear ! '
and some boy at the back say , ` What about Lloyd George ? '
in a tone Susan do n't like .
Lloyd George be her pet hero , now that Kitchener be go . '' '
I stand behind Lloyd George every time , ' retort Susan . '' '
I suppose that will hearten him up greatly , ' say Warren Mead , with one of his disagreeable ` haw-haws . '
`` Warren 's remark be spark to powder .
Susan just ` sail in ' a she put it , and ` say her say . '
She say it remarkably well , too .
There be no lack of ` ginger ' in her speech , anyhow .
When Susan be warm up she have no mean power of oratory , and the way she trim those men down be funny and wonderful and effective all at once .
She say it be the like of her , million of her , that do stand behind Lloyd George , and do hearten him up .
That be the key-note of her speech .
Dear old Susan !
She be a perfect dynamo of patriotism and loyalty and contempt for slacker of all kind , and when she let it loose on that audience in her one grand outburst she electrify it .
Susan always vow she be no suffragette , but she give womanhood it due that night , and she literally make those men cringe .
When she finish with them they be ready to eat out of her hand .
She wind up by order them -- yes , order them -- to march up to the platform forthwith and subscribe for Victory Bonds .
And after wild applause most of them do it , even Warren Mead .
When the total amount subscribe come out in the Charlottetown dailies the next day we find that the Glen lead every district on the Island -- and certainly Susan have the credit for it .
She , herself , after she come home that night be quite ashamed and evidently fear that she have be guilty of unbecoming conduct : she confess to mother that she have be ` rather unladylike . '
`` We be all -- except Susan -- out for a trial ride in father 's new automobile tonight .
A very good one we have , too , though we do get ingloriously ditch at the end , owe to a certain grim old dame -- to wit , Miss Elizabeth Carr of the Upper Glen -- who would n't rein her horse out to let u pass , honk a we might .
Father be quite furious ; but in my heart I believe I sympathize with Miss Elizabeth .
If I have be a spinster lady , drive along behind my own old nag , in maiden meditation fancy free , I would n't have lift a rein when an obstreperous car hoot blatantly behind me .
I should just have sit up as dourly a she do and say ` Take the ditch if you be determine to pass . '
`` We do take the ditch -- and get up to our axle in sand -- and sat foolishly there while Miss Elizabeth cluck up her horse and rattle victoriously away .
`` Jem will have a laugh when I write him this .
He know Miss Elizabeth of old .
`` But -- will -- Venice -- be -- save ? ''
19th November 1917 `` It be not save yet -- it be still in great danger .
But the Italians be make a stand at last on the Piave line .
To be sure military critic say they can not possibly hold it and must retreat to the Adige .
But Susan and Gertrude and I say they must hold it , because Venice must be save , so what be the military critic to do ?
`` Oh , if I could only believe that they can hold it !
`` Our Canadian troop have win another great victory -- they have storm the Passchendaele Ridge and hold it in the face of all counter attack .
None of our boy be in the battle -- but oh , the casualty list of other people 's boy !
Joe Milgrave be in it but come through safe .
Miranda have some bad day until she get word from him .
But it be wonderful how Miranda have bloom out since her marriage .
She be n't the same girl at all .
Even her eye seem to have darken and deepen -- though I suppose that be just because they glow with the great intensity that have come to her .
She make her father stand round in a perfectly amazing fashion ; she run up the flag whenever a yard of trench on the western front be take ; and she come up regularly to our Junior Red Cross ; and she do -- yes , she do -- put on funny little ` married woman ' air that be quite kill .
But she be the only war-bride in the Glen and surely nobody need grudge her the satisfaction she get out of it .
`` The Russian news be bad , too -- Kerensky 's government have fall and Lenin be dictator of Russia .
Somehow , it be very hard to keep up courage in the dull hopelessness of these grey autumn day of suspense and bode news .
But we be begin to ` get in a low , ' a old Highland Sandy say , over the approaching election .
Conscription be the real issue at stake and it will be the most exciting election we ever have .
All the woman ` who have get de age ' -- to quote Jo Poirier , and who have husband , son , and brother at the front , can vote .
Oh , if I be only twenty-one !
Gertrude and Susan be both furious because they ca n't vote . ''
` It be not fair , ' Gertrude say passionately .
` There be Agnes Carr who can vote because her husband go .
She do everything she could to prevent him from go , and now she be go to vote against the Union Government .
Yet I have no vote , because my man at the front be only my sweetheart and not my husband ! ''
`` As for Susan , when she reflect that she can not vote , while a rank old pacifist like Mr. Pryor can -- and will -- her comment be sulphurous .
`` I really feel sorry for the Elliotts and Crawfords and MacAllisters over-harbour .
They have always line up in clearly divide camp of Liberal and Conservative , and now they be tear from their mooring -- I know I 'm mix my metaphor dreadfully -- and set hopelessly adrift .
It will kill some of those old Grits to vote for Sir Robert Borden 's side -- and yet they have to because they believe the time have come when we must have conscription .
And some poor Conservatives who be against conscription must vote for Laurier , who always have be anathema to them .
Some of them be take it terribly hard .
Others seem to be in much the same attitude a Mrs. Marshall Elliott have come to be regard Church Union .
`` She be up here last night .
She do n't come as often a she use to .
She be grow too old to walk this far -- dear old ` Miss Cornelia . '
I hate to think of her grow old -- we have always love her so and she have always be so good to u Ingleside young fry .
`` She use to be so bitterly oppose to Church Union .
But last night , when father tell her it be practically decide , she say in a resigned tone , ` Well , in a world where everything be be rent and torn what matter one more rending and tearing ?
Anyhow , compare with Germans even Methodists seem attractive to me . '
`` Our Junior R.C . go on quite smoothly , in spite of the fact that Irene have come back to it -- have fall out with the Lowbridge society , I understand .
She give me a sweet little jab last meeting -- about know me across the square in Charlottetown ` by my green velvet hat . '
Everybody know me by that detestable and detest hat .
This will be my fourth season for it .
Even mother want me to get a new one this fall ; but I say , ` No . '
As long a the war last so long do I wear that velvet hat in winter . ''
23rd November 1917 `` The Piave line still hold -- and General Byng have win a splendid victory at Cambrai .
I do run up the flag for that -- but Susan only say ' I shall set a kettle of water on the kitchen range tonight .
I notice little Kitchener always have an attack of croup after any British victory .
I do hope he have no pro-German blood in his vein .
Nobody know much about his father 's people . '
`` Jims have have a few attack of croup this fall -- just the ordinary croup -- not that terrible thing he have last year .
But whatever blood run in his little vein it be good , healthy blood .
He be rosy and plump and curly and cute ; and he say such funny thing and asks such comical question .
He like very much to sit in a special chair in the kitchen ; but that be Susan 's favourite chair , too , and when she want it , out Jims must go .
The last time she put him out of it he turn around and ask solemnly , ` When you be dead , Susan , can I sit in that chair ? '
Susan think it quite dreadful , and I think that be when she begin to feel anxiety about his possible ancestry .
The other night I take Jims with me for a walk down to the store .
It be the first time he have ever be out so late at night , and when he saw the star he exclaim , ` Oh , Willa , see the big moon and all the little moon ! '
And last Wednesday morning , when he wake up , my little alarm clock have stop because I have forget to wind it up .
Jims bound out of his crib and run across to me , his face quite aghast above his little blue flannel pyjama .
` The clock be dead , ' he gasp , ` oh Willa , the clock be dead . '
`` One night he be quite angry with both Susan and me because we would not give him something he want very much .
When he say his prayer he plump down wrathfully , and when he come to the petition ` Make me a good boy ' he tack on emphatically , ` and please make Willa and Susan good , 'cause they 're not . '
`` I do n't go about quote Jims 's speech to all I meet .
That always bore me when other people do it !
I just enshrine them in this old hotch-potch of a journal !
`` This very evening a I put Jims to bed he look up and ask me gravely , ` Why ca n't yesterday come back , Willa ? '
`` Oh , why ca n't it , Jims ?
That beautiful ` yesterday ' of dream and laughter -- when our boy be home -- when Walter and I read and ramble and watch new moon and sunset together in Rainbow Valley .
If it could just come back !
But yesterday never come back , little Jims -- and the today be dark with cloud -- and we dare not think about the tomorrow . ''
11th December 1917 `` Wonderful news come today .
The British troop capture Jerusalem yesterday .
We run up the flag and some of Gertrude 's old sparkle come back to her for a moment . ''
` After all , ' she say , ` it be worth while to live in the day which see the object of the Crusades attain .
The ghost of all the Crusaders must have crowd the wall of Jerusalem last night , with Coeur-de-lion at their head . '
`` Susan have cause for satisfaction also . '' '
I be so thankful I can pronounce Jerusalem and Hebron , ' she say .
` They give me a real comfortable feeling after Przemysl and Brest-Litovsk !
Well , we have get the Turks on the run , at least , and Venice be safe and Lord Lansdowne be not to be take seriously ; and I see no reason why we should be downhearted . '
`` Jerusalem !
The ` meteor flag of England ! '
float over you -- the Crescent be go .
How Walter would have thrill over that ! ''
18th December 1917 `` Yesterday the election come off .
In the evening mother and Susan and Gertrude and I forgather in the living-room and wait in breathless suspense , father have go down to the village .
We have no way of hear the news , for Carter Flagg 's store be not on our line , and when we try to get it Central always answer that the line ` be busy ' -- a no doubt it be , for everybody for mile around be try to get Carter 's store for the same reason we be .
`` About ten o'clock Gertrude go to the ` phone and happen to catch someone from over-harbour talk to Carter Flagg .
Gertrude shamelessly listen in and get for her comfort what eavesdropper be proverbially suppose to get -- to wit , unpleasant hearing ; the Union Government have ` do nothing ' in the West .
`` We look at each other in dismay .
If the Government have fail to carry the West , it be defeat . ''
` Canada be disgrace in the eye of the world , ' say Gertrude bitterly . ''
` If everybody be like the Mark Crawfords over-harbour this would not have happen , ' groan Susan .
` Yhey lock their Uncle up in the barn this morning and would not let him out until he promise to vote Union .
That be what I call effective argument , Mrs. Dr. dear . '
`` Gertrude and I could n't rest after all that .
We walk the floor until our leg give out and we have to sit down perforce .
Mother knit away as steadily a clockwork and pretend to be calm and serene -- pretend so well that we be all deceive and envious until the next day , when I catch her ravel out four inch of her sock .
She have knit that far past where the heel should have begin !
`` It be twelve before father come home .
He stand in the doorway and look at u and we look at him .
We do not dare ask him what the news be .
Then he say that it be Laurier who have ` do nothing ' in the West , and that the Union Government be in with a big majority .
Gertrude clap her hand .
I want to laugh and cry , mother 's eye flash with their old-time starriness and Susan emit a queer sound between a gasp and a whoop .
`` This will not comfort the Kaiser much , ' she say .
`` Then we go to bed , but be too excite to sleep .
Really , a Susan say solemnly this morning , ` Mrs. Dr. dear , I think politics be too strenuous for woman . ' ''
31st December 1917 `` Our fourth War Christmas be over .
We be try to gather up some courage wherewith to face another year of it .
Germany have , for the most part , be victorious all summer .
And now they say she have all her troop from the Russian front ready for a ` big push ' in the spring .
Sometimes it seem to me that we just can not live through the winter wait for that .
`` I have a great batch of letter from overseas this week .
Shirley be at the front now , too , and write about it all a coolly and matter-of-factly a he use to write of football at Queen 's .
Carl write that it have be rain for week and that night in the trench always make him think of the night of long ago when he do penance in the graveyard for run away from Henry Warren 's ghost .
Carl 's letter be always full of joke and bit of fun .
They have a great rat-hunt the night before he write -- spear rat with their bayonet -- and he get the best bag and win the prize .
He have a tame rat that know him and sleep in his pocket at night .
Rats do n't worry Carl a they do some people -- he be always chummy with all little beast .
He say he be make a study of the habit of the trench rat and mean to write a treatise on it some day that will make him famous .
`` Ken write a short letter .
His letter be all rather short now -- and he do n't often slip in those dear little sudden sentence I love so much .
Sometimes I think he have forget all about the night he be here to say goodbye -- and then there will be just a line or a word that make me think he remembers and always will remember .
For instance to-day 's letter have n't a thing in it that might n't have be write to any girl , except that he sign himself ` Your Kenneth , ' instead of ` Yours , Kenneth , ' a he usually do .
Now , do he leave that 's ' off intentionally or be it only carelessness ?
I shall lie awake half the night wondering .
He be a captain now .
I be glad and proud -- and yet Captain Ford sound so horribly far away and high up .
Ken and Captain Ford seem like two different person .
I may be practically engage to Ken -- mother 's opinion on that point be my stay and bulwark -- but I ca n't be to Captain Ford !
`` And Jem be a lieutenant now -- win his promotion on the field .
He send me a snap-shot , take in his new uniform .
He look thin and old -- old -- my boy-brother Jem .
I ca n't forget mother 's face when I show it to her .
` That -- my little Jem -- the baby of the old House of Dreams ? '
be all she say .
`` There be a letter from Faith , too .
She be do V.A.D . work in England and write hopefully and brightly .
I think she be almost happy -- she saw Jem on his last leave and she be so near him she could go to him , if he be wound .
That mean so much to her .
Oh , if I be only with her !
But my work be here at home .
I know Walter would n't have want me to leave mother and in everything I try to ` keep faith ' with him , even to the little detail of daily life .
Walter die for Canada -- I must live for her .
That be what he ask me to do . ''
28th January 1918 '' ' I shall anchor my storm-tossed soul to the British fleet and make a batch of bran biscuit , ' say Susan today to Cousin Sophia , who have come in with some weird tale of a new and all-conquering submarine , just launch by Germany .
But Susan be a somewhat disgruntled woman at present , owe to the regulation regard cookery .
Her loyalty to the Union Government be be sorely try .
It surmount the first strain gallantly .
When the order about flour come Susan say , quite cheerfully , ' I be an old dog to be learn new trick , but I shall learn to make war bread if it will help defeat the Huns . '
`` But the late suggestion go against Susan 's grain .
Had it not be for father 's decree I think she would have snap her finger at Sir Robert Borden . ''
` Talk about try to make brick without straw , Mrs. Dr. dear !
How be I to make a cake without butter or sugar ?
It can not be do -- not cake that be cake .
Of course one can make a slab , Mrs. Dr. dear .
And we can not even camooflash it with a little icing !
To think that I should have live to see the day when a government at Ottawa should step into my kitchen and put me on ration ! '
`` Susan would give the last drop of her blood for her ` king and country , ' but to surrender her beloved recipe be a very different and much more serious matter .
`` I have letter from Nan and Di too -- or rather note .
They be too busy to write letter , for exam be loom up .
They will graduate in Arts this spring .
I be evidently to be the dunce of the family .
But somehow I never have any hankering for a college course , and even now it do n't appeal to me .
I 'm afraid I 'm rather devoid of ambition .
There be only one thing I really want to be -- and I do n't know if I 'll be it or not .
If not -- I do n't want to be anything .
But I sha n't write it down .
It be all right to think it ; but , a Cousin Sophia would say , it might be brazen to write it down .
`` I will write it down .
I wo n't be cow by the convention and Cousin Sophia !
I want to be Kenneth Ford 's wife !
There now !
`` I 've just look in the glass , and I have n't the sign of a blush on my face .
I suppose I 'm not a properly construct damsel at all .
`` I be down to see little Dog Monday today .
He have grow quite stiff and rheumatic but there he sit , wait for the train .
He thump his tail and look pleadingly into my eye .
` When will Jem come ? '
he seem to say .
Oh , Dog Monday , there be no answer to that question ; and there be , a yet , no answer to the other which we be all constantly ask ` What will happen when Germany strike again on the western front -- her one great , last blow for victory ! ''
1st March 1918 '' ` What will spring bring ? '
Gertrude say today . '
I dread it a I never dread spring before .
Do you suppose there will ever again come a time when life will be free from fear ?
For almost four year we have lie down with fear and rise up with it .
It have be the unbidden guest at every meal , the unwelcome companion at every gathering . ' ''
` Hindenburg say he will be in Paris on 1st April , ' sigh Cousin Sophia . ''
` Hindenburg ! '
There be no power in pen and ink to express the contempt which Susan infuse into that name .
` Has he forget what day the first of April be ? ' ''
` Hindenburg have keep his word hitherto , ' say Gertrude , as gloomily a Cousin Sophia herself could have say it . ''
` Yes , fight against the Russians and Rumanians , ' retort Susan .
` Wait you till he come up against the British and French , not to speak of the Yankees , who be get there as fast a they can and will no doubt give a good account of themselves . ' ''
` You say just the same thing before Mons , Susan , ' I remind her . ''
` Hindenburg say he will spend a million life to break the Allied front , ' say Gertrude .
` At such a price he must purchase some success and how can we live through them , even if he be baffle in the end .
These past two month when we have be crouch and wait for the blow to fall have seem as long a all the precede month of the war put together .
I work all day feverishly and waken at three o'clock at night to wonder if the iron legion have strike at last .
It be then I see Hindenburg in Paris and Germany triumphant .
I never see her so at any other time than that accurse hour . '
`` Susan look dubious over Gertrude 's adjective , but evidently conclude that the ` a ' save the situation . '' '
I wish it be possible to take some magic draught and go to sleep for the next three month -- and then waken to find Armageddon over , ' say mother , almost impatiently .
`` It be not often that mother slump into a wish like that -- or at least the verbal expression of it .
Mother have change a great deal since that terrible day in September when we know that Walter would not come back ; but she have always be brave and patient .
Now it seem a if even she have reach the limit of her endurance .
`` Susan go over to mother and touch her shoulder . ''
` Do not you be frighten or downhearted , Mrs. Dr. dear , ' she say gently . '
I felt somewhat that way myself last night , and I rise from my bed and light my lamp and open my Bible ; and what do you think be the first verse my eye light upon ?
It be ` And they shall fight against thee but they shall not prevail against thee , for I be with thee , saith the Lord of Hosts , to deliver thee . '
I be not gift in the way of dreaming , a Miss Oliver be , but I know then and there , Mrs. Dr. dear , that it be a manifest leading , and that Hindenburg will never see Paris .
So I read no far but go back to my bed and I do not waken at three o'clock or at any other hour before morning . '
`` I say that verse Susan read over and over again to myself .
The Lord of Hosts be with u -- and the spirit of all just men make perfect -- and even the legion and gun that Germany be mass on the western front must break against such a barrier .
This be in certain uplifted moment ; but when other moment come I feel , like Gertrude , that I can not endure any longer this awful and ominous hush before the come storm . ''
23rd March 1918 `` Armageddon have begin !
-- ` the last great fight of all ! '
Is it , I wonder ?
Yesterday I go down to the post office for the mail .
It be a dull , bitter day .
The snow be go but the grey , lifeless ground be frozen hard and a biting wind be blow .
The whole Glen landscape be ugly and hopeless .
`` Then I get the paper with it big black headline .
Germany strike on the twenty-first .
She make big claim of gun and prisoner take .
General Haig report that ` severe fighting continue . '
I do n't like the sound of that last expression .
`` We all find we can not do any work that require concentration of thought .
So we all knit furiously , because we can do that mechanically .
At least the dreadful waiting be over -- the horrible wondering where and when the blow will fall .
It have fall -- but they shall not prevail against u !
`` Oh , what be happen on the western front tonight a I write this , sit here in my room with my journal before me ?
Jims be asleep in his crib and the wind be wail around the window ; over my desk hang Walter 's picture , look at me with his beautiful deep eye ; the Mona Lisa he give me the last Christmas he be home hang on one side of it , and on the other a framed copy of `` The Piper . ''
It seem to me that I can hear Walter 's voice repeat it -- that little poem into which he put his soul , and which will therefore live for ever , carry Walter 's name on through the future of our land .
Everything about me be calm and peaceful and ` homey . '
Walter seem very near me -- if I could just sweep aside the thin wavering little veil that hang between , I could see him -- just a he saw the Pied Piper the night before Courcelette .
`` Over there in France tonight -- do the line hold ? ''
CHAPTER XXVIII BLACK SUNDAY In March of the year of grace 1918 there be one week into which must have crowd more of sear human agony than any seven day have ever hold before in the history of the world .
And in that week there be one day when all humanity seem nailed to the cross ; on that day the whole planet must have be agroan with universal convulsion ; everywhere the heart of men be fail them for fear .
It dawn calmly and coldly and greyly at Ingleside .
Mrs. Blythe and Rilla and Miss Oliver make ready for church in a suspense temper by hope and confidence .
The doctor be away , have be summon during the wee sma 's to the Marwood household in Upper Glen , where a little war-bride be fight gallantly on her own battleground to give life , not death , to the world .
Susan announce that she mean to stay home that morning -- a rare decision for Susan .
`` But I would rather not go to church this morning , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' she explain .
`` If Whiskers-on-the-moon be there and I saw him look holy and pleased , a he always look when he think the Huns be win , I fear I would lose my patience and my sense of decorum and hurl a Bible or hymn-book at him , thereby disgrace myself and the sacred edifice .
No , Mrs. Dr. dear , I shall stay home from church till the tide turn and pray hard here . ''
`` I think I might as well stay home , too , for all the good church will do me today , '' Miss Oliver say to Rilla , a they walk down the hard-frozen red road to the church .
`` I can think of nothing but the question , ` Does the line still hold ? ' ''
`` Next Sunday will be Easter , '' say Rilla .
`` Will it herald death or life to our cause ? ''
Mr. Meredith preach that morning from the text , `` He that endureth to the end shall be save , '' and hope and confidence rang through his inspiring sentence .
Rilla , look up at the memorial tablet on the wall above their pew , `` sacred to the memory of Walter Cuthbert Blythe , '' felt herself lift out of her dread and fill anew with courage .
Walter could not have lay down his life for naught .
His have be the gift of prophetic vision and he have foreseen victory .
She would cling to that belief -- the line would hold .
In this renew mood she walk home from church almost gaily .
The others , too , be hopeful , and all go smile into Ingleside .
There be no one in the living-room , save Jims , who have fall asleep on the sofa , and Doc , who sit `` hush in grim repose '' on the hearth-rug , look very Hydeish indeed .
No one be in the dining-room either -- and , strange still , no dinner be on the table , which be not even set .
Where be Susan ?
`` Can she have take ill ? ''
exclaim Mrs. Blythe anxiously .
`` I think it strange that she do not want to go to church this morning . ''
The kitchen door open and Susan appear on the threshold with such a ghastly face that Mrs. Blythe cry out in sudden panic .
`` Susan , what be it ? ''
`` The British line be break and the German shell be fall on Paris , '' say Susan dully .
The three woman star at each other , stricken .
`` It 's not true -- it 's not , '' gasp Rilla .
`` The thing would be -- ridiculous , '' say Gertrude Oliver -- and then she laugh horribly .
`` Susan , who tell you this -- when do the news come ? ''
ask Mrs. Blythe .
`` I get it over the long-distance phone from Charlottetown half an hour ago , '' say Susan .
`` The news come to town late last night .
It be Dr. Holland phone it out and he say it be only too true .
Since then I have do nothing , Mrs. Dr. dear .
I be very sorry dinner be not ready .
It be the first time I have be so remiss .
If you will be patient I will soon have something for you to eat .
But I be afraid I let the potato burn . ''
`` Dinner !
Nobody want any dinner , Susan , '' say Mrs. Blythe wildly .
`` Oh , this thing be unbelievable -- it must be a nightmare . ''
`` Paris be lose -- France be lose -- the war be lose , '' gasp Rilla , amid the utter ruin of hope and confidence and belief .
`` Oh God -- Oh God , '' moan Gertrude Oliver , walk about the room and wring her hand , `` Oh -- God ! ''
Nothing else -- no other word -- nothing but that age old plea -- the old , old cry of supreme agony and appeal , from the human heart whose every human staff have fail it .
`` Is God dead ? ''
ask a startled little voice from the doorway of the living-room .
Jims stood there , flush from sleep , his big brown eye fill with dread , `` Oh Willa -- oh , Willa , be God dead ? ''
Miss Oliver stop walk and exclaim , and star at Jims , in whose eye tear of fright be begin to gather .
Rilla run to his comforting , while Susan bound up from the chair upon which she have drop .
`` No , '' she say briskly , with a sudden return of her real self .
`` No , God be n't dead -- nor Lloyd George either .
We be forget that , Mrs. Dr. dear .
Do n't cry , little Kitchener .
Bad a thing be , they might be bad .
The British line may be break but the British navy be not .
Let u tie to that .
I will take a brace and get up a bite to eat , for strength we must have . ''
They make a pretence of eat Susan 's `` bite , '' but it be only a pretence .
Nobody at Ingleside ever forget that black afternoon .
Gertrude Oliver walk the floor -- they all walk the floor ; except Susan , who get out her grey war sock .
`` Mrs. Dr. dear , I must knit on Sunday at last .
I have never dream of do it before for , say what might be say , I have consider it be a violation of the third commandment .
But whether it be or whether it be not I must knit today or I shall go mad . ''
`` Knit if you can , Susan , '' say Mrs. Blythe restlessly .
`` I would knit if I could -- but I can not -- I can not . ''
`` If we could only get full information , '' moan Rilla .
`` There might be something to encourage u -- if we know all . ''
`` We know that the Germans be shell Paris , '' say Miss Oliver bitterly .
`` In that case they must have smash through everywhere and be at the very gate .
No , we have lose -- let u face the fact a other people in the past have have to face it .
Other nation , with right on their side , have give their best and brave -- and go down to defeat in spite of it .
Ours be ` but one more To baffle million who have go before . ' ''
`` I wo n't give up like that , '' cry Rilla , her pale face suddenly flush .
`` I wo n't despair .
We be not conquer -- no , if Germany overrun all France we be not conquer .
I be ashamed of myself for this hour of despair .
You wo n't see me slump again like that , I 'm go to ring up town at once and ask for particular . ''
But town could not be get .
The long-distance operator there be submerge by similar call from every part of the distracted country .
Rilla finally give up and slip away to Rainbow Valley .
There she kneel down on the withered grey grass in the little nook where she and Walter have have their last talk together , with her head bow against the mossy trunk of a fall tree .
The sun have break through the black cloud and drench the valley with a pale golden splendour .
The bell on the Tree Lovers twinkle elfinly and fitfully in the gusty March wind .
`` Oh God , give me strength , '' Rilla whisper .
`` Just strength -- and courage . ''
Then like a child she clasp her hand together and say , as simply a Jims could have do , `` Please send u good news tomorrow . ''
She kneel there a long time , and when she go back to Ingleside she be calm and resolute .
The doctor have arrive home , tire but triumphant , little Douglas Haig Marwood have make a safe landing on the shore of time .
Gertrude be still pace restlessly but Mrs. Blythe and Susan have react from the shock , and Susan be already plan a new line of defence for the channel port .
`` As long a we can hold them , '' she declare , `` the situation be save .
Paris have really no military significance . ''
`` Do n't , '' say Gertrude sharply , a if Susan have run something into her .
She think the old worn phrase ` no military significance ' nothing short of ghastly mockery under the circumstance , and more terrible to endure than the voice of despair would have be .
`` I hear up at Marwood 's of the line be break , '' say the doctor , `` but this story of the Germans shell Paris seem to be rather incredible .
Even if they break through they be fifty mile from Paris at the near point and how could they get their artillery close enough to shell it in so short a time ?
Depend upon it , girl , that part of the message ca n't be true .
I 'm go to try to try a long-distance call to town myself . ''
The doctor be no more successful than Rilla have be , but his point of view cheer them all a little , and help them through the evening .
And at nine o'clock a long-distance message come through at last , that help them through the night .
`` The line break only in one place , before St. Quentin , '' say the doctor , a he hang up the receiver , `` and the British troop be retreat in good order .
That 's not so bad .
As for the shell that be fall on Paris , they be come from a distance of seventy mile -- from some amazing long-range gun the Germans have invent and spring with the opening offensive .
That be all the news to date , and Dr. Holland say it be reliable . ''
`` It would have be dreadful news yesterday , '' say Gertrude , `` but compare to what we hear this morning it be almost like good news .
But still , '' she add , try to smile , `` I be afraid I will not sleep much tonight . ''
`` There be one thing to be thankful for at any rate , Miss Oliver , dear , '' say Susan , `` and that be that Cousin Sophia do not come in today .
I really could not have endure her on top of all the rest . ''
CHAPTER XXIX `` WOUNDED AND MISSING '' `` Battered but Not Broken '' be the headline in Monday 's paper , and Susan repeat it over and over to herself a she go about her work .
The gap cause by the St. Quentin disaster have be patch up in time , but the Allied line be be push relentlessly back from the territory they have purchase in 1917 with half a million life .
On Wednesday the headline be `` British and French Check Germans '' ; but still the retreat go on .
Back -- and back -- and back !
Where would it end ?
Would the line break again -- this time disastrously ?
