at last !
how long have I wait for thee ! '
When the young brother heard these word he say to himself , ` So it be here that my brother live , and this beautiful woman be my sister-in-law , ' but he keep silence , and let her believe he be indeed her husband .
Full of joy , the princess lead him to the old king , who welcome him a his own son , and order a feast to be make for him .
And the princess be beside herself with gladness , but when she would have put her arm round him and kiss him he hold up his hand to stop her , say , ` Touch me not , ' at which she marvel greatly .
In this manner several day go by .
And one evening , a the young man lean from the balcony , he saw a bright light shin on the mountain .
` What can that be ? '
he say to the princess .
` Oh , come away , ' she cry ; ` have not that light already prove your bane ?
Do you wish to fight a second time with that old witch ? '
He mark her word , though she know it not , and they teach him where his brother be , and what have befall him .
So before sunrise he steal out early , saddle his horse , and ride off to the mountain .
But the way be far than he think , and on the road he meet a little old man who ask him whither he be go .
Then the young man tell him his story , and add .
` Somehow or other I must free my brother , who have fall into the power of an old witch . ' '
I will tell you what you must do , ' say the old man .
` The witch 's power lie in her hair ; so when you see her spring on her and seize her by the hair , and then she can not harm you .
Be very careful never to let her hair go , bid her lead you to your brother , and force her to bring him back to life .
For she have an ointment that will heal all wound , and even wake the dead .
And when your brother stand safe and well before you , then cut off her head , for she be a wicked woman . '
The young man be grateful for these word , and promise to obey them .
Then he ride on , and soon reach the castle .
He walk boldly up the step and enter the hall , where the hideous old witch come to meet him .
She grin horribly at him , and cry out , ` With one hair of my head I can change you into stone . '
` Can you , indeed ? '
say the young man , seize her by the hair .
` You old wretch !
tell me what you have do with my brother , or I will cut your head off this very instant . '
Now the witch 's strength be all go from her , and she have to obey . '
I will take you to your brother , ' she say , hop to get the good of him by cunning , ` but leave me alone .
You hold me so tight that I can not walk . '
` You must manage somehow , ' he answer , and hold her tighter than ever .
She lead him into a large hall fill with stone statue , which once have be men , and , point out one , she say , ` There be your brother . '
The young man look at them all and shake his head .
` My brother be not here .
Take me to him , or it will be the bad for you . '
But she try to put him off with other statue , though it be no good , and it be not until they have reach the last hall of all that he saw his brother lie on the ground .
` That be my brother , ' say he .
` Now give me the ointment that will restore him to life . '
Very unwillingly the old witch open a cupboard close by fill with bottle and jar , and take down one and hold it out to the young man .
But he be on the watch for trickery , and examine it carefully , and saw that it have no power to heal .
This happen many time , till at length she find it be no use , and give him the one he want .
And when he have it safe he make her stoop down and smear it over his brother 's face , take care all the while never to loose her hair , and when the dead man open his eye the youth draw his sword and cut off her head with a single blow .
Then the elder brother get up and stretch himself , and say , ` Oh , how long I have sleep !
And where be I ? '
` The old witch have enchant you , but now she be dead and you be free .
We will wake up the other knight that she lay under her spell , and then we will go . '
This they do , and , after share amongst them the jewel and gold they find in the castle , each man go his way .
The two brother remain together , the elder tightly grasp the ointment which have bring him back to life .
They have much to tell each other a they ride along , and at last the young man exclaim , ' O fool , to leave such a beautiful wife to go and fight a witch !
She take me for her husband , and I do not say her nay . '
When the elder brother heard this a great rage fill his heart , and , without say one word , he draw his sword and slew his brother , and his body roll in the dust .
Then he ride on till he reach his home , where his wife be still sit , weep bitterly .
When she saw him she spring up with a cry , and throw herself into his arm .
` Oh , how long have I wait for thee !
Never , never must you leave me any more ! '
When the old king hear the news he welcome him a a son , and make ready a feast , and all the court sit down .
And in the evening , when the young man be alone with his wife , she say to him , ` Why would you not let me touch you when you come back , but always thrust me away when I try to put my arm round you or kiss you ? '
Then the young man understand how true his brother have be to him , and he sit down and wept and wring his hand because of the wicked murder that he have do .
Suddenly he spring to his foot , for he remember the ointment which lay hidden in his garment , and he rush to the place where his brother still lay .
He fell on his knee beside the body , and , take out the salve , he rub it over the neck where the wound be gap wide , and the skin heal and the sinew grow strong , and the dead man sit up and look round him .
And the two brother embrace each other , and the elder ask forgiveness for his wicked blow ; and they go back to the palace together , and be never part any more .
Master and Pupil From the Danish .
There be once a man who have a son who be very clever at reading , and take great delight in it .
He go out into the world to seek service somewhere , and a he be walk between some mound he meet a man , who ask him where he be go . '
I be go about seek for service , ' say the boy .
` Will you serve me ? '
ask the man .
` Oh , yes ; just a readily you a anyone else , ' say the boy .
` But can you read ? '
ask the man .
` As well a the priest , ' say the boy .
Then I ca n't have you , ' say the man .
` In fact , I be just want a boy who could n't read .
His only work would be to dust my old book . '
The man then go on his way , and leave the boy look after him .
` It be a pity I do n't get that place , ' think he ` That be just the very thing for me . '
Making up his mind to get the situation if possible , he hide himself behind one of the mound , and turn his jacket outside in , so that the man would not know him again so easily .
Then he run along behind the mound , and meet the man at the other end of them .
` Where be you go , my little boy ? '
say the man , who do not notice that it be the same one he have meet before . '
I be go about seek for service ? '
say the boy .
` Will you serve me ? '
ask the man .
` Oh , yes ; just a readily you a anyone else , ' say the boy .
` But can you read ? '
say the man .
` No , I do n't know a single letter , ' say the boy .
The man then take him into his service , and all the work he have to do be to dust his master 's book .
But a he do this he have plenty of time to read them as well , and he read away at them until at last he be just as wise a his master -- who be a great wizard -- and could perform all kind of magic .
Among other feat , he could change himself into the shape of any animal , or any other thing that he please .
When he have learn all this he do not think it worth while stay there any long , so he run away home to his parent again .
Soon after this there be a market in the next village , and the boy tell his mother that he have learn how to change himself into the shape of any animal he choose .
` Now , ' say he , ' I shall change myself to a horse , and father can take me to market and sell me .
I shall come home again all right . '
His mother be frighten at the idea , but the boy tell her that she need not be alarm ; all would be well .
So he change himself to a horse , such a fine horse , too , that his father get a high price for it at the market ; but after the bargain be make , and the money pay , the boy change again to his own shape , when no one be look , and go home .
The story spread all over the country about the fine horse that have be sell and then have disappear , and at last the news come to the ear of the wizard .
` Aha ! '
say he , ` this be that boy of mine , who befool me and run away ; but I shall have him yet . '
The next time that there be a market the boy again change himself to a horse , and be take thither by his father .
The horse soon find a purchaser , and while the two be inside drink the luck-penny the wizard come along and saw the horse .
He know at once that it be not an ordinary one , so he also go inside , and offer the purchaser far more than he have pay for it , so the latter sell it to him .
The first thing the wizard now do be to lead the horse away to a smith to get a red-hot nail drive into it mouth , because after that it could not change it shape again .
When the horse saw this it change itself to a dove , and fly up into the air .
The wizard at once change himself into a hawk , and fly up after it .
The dove now turn into a gold ring , and fell into a girl 's lap .
The hawk now turn into a man , and offer the girl a great sum of money for the gold ring , but she would not part with it , see that it have fall down to her , a it be , from Heaven .
However , the wizard keep on offer her more and more for it , until at last the gold ring grow frighten , and change itself into a grain of barley , which fell on the ground .
The man then turn into a hen , and begin to search for the grain of barley , but this again change itself to a pole-cat , and take off the hen 's head with a single snap .
The wizard be now dead , the pole-cat put on human shape , and the youth afterwards marry the girl , and from that time forward let all his magic art alone .
The Golden Lion Sicilianische Mahrchen .
L. Gonzenbach .
There be once a rich merchant who have three son , and when they be grow up the eldest say to him , ` Father , I wish to travel and see the world .
I pray you let me . '
So the father order a beautiful ship to be fit up , and the young man sail away in it .
After some week the vessel cast anchor before a large town , and the merchant 's son go on shore .
The first thing he saw be a large notice write on a board say that if any man could find the king 's daughter within eight day he should have her to wife , but that if he try and fail his head must be the forfeit .
` Well , ' think the youth a he read this proclamation , ` that ought not to be a very difficult matter ; ' and he ask an audience of the king , and tell him that he wish to seek for the princess .
` Certainly , ' reply the king .
` You have the whole palace to search in ; but remember , if you fail it will cost you your head . '
So say , he command the door to be throw open , and food and drink to be set before the young man , who , after he have eat , begin to look for the princess .
But though he visit every corner and chest and cupboard , she be not in any of them , and after eight day he give it up and his head be cut off .
All this time his father and brother have have no news of him , and be very anxious .
At last the second son could bear it no longer , and say , ` Dear father , give me , I pray you , a large ship and some money , and let me go and seek for my brother . '
So another ship be fit out , and the young man sail away , and be blow by the wind into the same harbour where his brother have land .
Now when he saw the first ship lie at anchor his heart beat high , and he say to himself , ` My brother can not surely be far off , ' and he order a boat and be put on shore .
As he jump on to the pier his eye catch the notice about the princess , and he think , ` He have undertake to find her , and have certainly lose his head .
I must try myself , and seek him as well a her .
It can not be such a very difficult matter . '
But he fare no good than his brother , and in eight day his head be cut off .
So now there be only the young at home , and when the other two never come he also beg for a ship that he might go in search of his lose brother .
And when the vessel start a high wind arose , and blow him straight to the harbour where the notice be set .
` Oho ! '
say he , a he read , ` whoever can find the king 's daughter shall have her to wife .
It be quite clear now what have befall my brother .
But in spite of that I think I must try my luck , ' and he take the road to the castle .
On the way he meet an old woman , who stop and beg .
` Leave me in peace , old woman , ' reply he .
` Oh , do not send me away empty , ' she say .
` You be such a handsome young man you will surely not refuse an old woman a few penny . ' '
I tell you , old woman , leave me alone . '
` You be in some trouble ? '
she ask .
` Tell me what it be , and perhaps I can help you . '
Then he tell her how he have set his heart on find the king 's daughter . '
I can easily manage that for you as long a you have enough money . '
` Oh , a to that , I have plenty , ' answer he .
` Well , you must take it to a goldsmith and get him to make it into a golden lion , with eye of crystal ; and inside it must have something that will enable it to play tune .
When it be ready bring it to me . '
The young man do a he be bid , and when the lion be make the old woman hide the youth in it , and bring it to the king , who be so delighted with it that he want to buy it .
But she reply , ` It do not belong to me , and my master will not part from it at any price . '
` At any rate , leave it with me for a few day , ' say he ; ' I should like to show it to my daughter . '
` Yes , I can do that , ' answer the old woman ; ` but to-morrow I must have it back again .
And she go away .
The king watch her till she be quite out of sight , so a to make sure that she be not spy upon him ; then he take the golden lion into his room and lift some loose board from the floor .
Below the floor there be a staircase , which he go down till he reach a door at the foot .
This he unlock , and find himself in a narrow passage close by another door , which he also open .
The young man , hide in the golden lion , keep count of everything , and mark that there be in all seven door .
After they have all be unlock the king enter a lovely hall , where the princess be amuse herself with eleven friend .
All twelve girl wear the same clothes , and be a like each other a two pea .
` What bad luck ! '
think the youth .
` Even suppose that I manage to find my way here again , I do n't see how I could ever tell which be the princess . '
And he star hard at the princess a she clap her hand with joy and run up to them , cry , ' Oh , do let u keep that delicious beast for to-night ; it will make such a nice plaything . '
The king do not stay long , and when he leave he hand over the lion to the maiden , who amuse themselves with it for some time , till they get sleepy , and think it be time to go to bed .
But the princess take the lion into her own room and lay it on the floor .
She be just begin to doze when she hear a voice quite close to her , which make her jump . '
O lovely princess , if you only know what I have go through to find you ! '
The princess jump out of bed screaming , ` The lion !
the lion ! '
but her friend think it be a nightmare , and do not trouble themselves to get up . '
O lovely úprincess ! '
continue the voice , ` fear nothing !
I be the son of a rich merchant , and desire above all thing to have you for my wife .
And in order to get to you I have hide myself in this golden lion . '
` What use be that ? '
she ask .
` For if you can not pick me out from among my companion you will still lose your head . ' '
I look to you to help me , ' he say . '
I have do so much for you that you might do this one thing for me . '
` Then listen to me .
On the eighth day I will tie a white sash round my waist , and by that you will know me . '
The next morning the king come very early to fetch the lion , a the old woman be already at the palace ask for it .
When they be safe from view she let the young man out , and he return to the king and tell him that he wish to find the princess .
` Very good , ' say the king , who by this time be almost tire of repeat the same word ; ` but if you fail your head will be the forfeit . '
So the youth remain quietly in the castle , eat and look at all the beautiful thing around him , and every now and then pretend to be search busily in all the closet and corner .
On the eighth day he enter the room where the king be sit .
` Take up the floor in this place , ' he say .
The king give a cry , but stop himself , and ask , ` What do you want the floor up for ?
There be nothing there . '
But a all his courtier be watch him he do not like to make any more objection , and order the floor to be take up , a the young man desire .
The youth then want straight down the staircase till he reach the door ; then he turn and demand that the key should be bring .
So the king be force to unlock the door , and the next and the next and the next , till all seven be open , and they enter into the hall where the twelve maiden be stand all in a row , so like that none might tell them apart .
But a he look one of them silently draw a white sash from her pocket and slip it round her waist , and the young man sprang to her and say , ` This be the princess , and I claim her for my wife . '
And the king own himself beat , and command that the wedding feast should be hold .
After eight day the bridal pair say farewell to the king , and set sail for the youth 's own country , take with them a whole shipload of treasure a the princess 's dowry .
But they do not forget the old woman who have bring about all their happiness , and they give her enough money to make her comfortable to the end of her day .
The Sprig of Rosemary Cuentos Populars Catalans , per lo Dr. D. Francisco de S. Maspons y Labros -LRB- Barcelona : Libreria de Don Alvar Verdaguer 1885 -RRB- .
Once upon a time there live a man with one daughter and he make her work hard all the day .
One morning when she have finish everything he have set her to do , he tell her to go out into the wood and get some dry leaf and stick to kindle a fire .
The girl go out , and soon collect a large bundle , and then she pluck at a sprig of sweet-smelling rosemary for herself .
But the hard she pull the firmer seem the plant , and at last , determine not to be beat , she give one great tug , and the rosemary remain in her hand .
Then she hear a voice close to her say , ` Well ? '
and turn she saw before her a handsome young man , who ask why she have come to steal his firewood .
The girl , who felt much confuse , only manage to stammer out a an excuse that her father have send her .
` Very well , ' reply the young man ; ` then come with me . '
So he take her through the opening make by the torn-up root , and they travel till they reach a beautiful palace , splendidly furnish , but only light from the top .
And when they have enter he tell her that he be a great lord , and that never have he see a maiden so beautiful a she , and that if she would give him her heart they would be marry and live happy for ever after .
And the maiden say ` yes , she would , ' and so they be marry .
The next day the old dame who look after the house hand her all the key , but point her out one that she would do well never to use , for if she do the whole palace would fall to the ground , and the grass would grow over it , and the damsel herself would be remember no more .
The bride promise to be careful , but in a little while , when there be nothing left for her to do , she begin to wonder what could be in the chest , which be open by the key .
As everybody know , if we once begin to think we soon begin to do , and it be not very long before the key be no longer in the maiden 's hand but in the lock of the chest .
But the lock be stiff and resist all her effort , and in the end she have to break it .
And what be inside after all ?
Why , nothing but a serpent 's skin , which her husband , who be , unknown to her , a magician , put on when he be at work ; and at the sight of it the girl be turn away in disgust , when the earth shake violently under her foot , the palace vanish a if it have never be , and the bride find herself in the middle of a field , not know where she be or whither to go .
She burst into a flood of bitter tear , partly at her own folly , but more for the loss of her husband , whom she dearly love .
Then , break a sprig of rosemary off a bush hard by , she resolve , cost what it might , to seek him through the world till she find him .
So she walk and she walk and she walk , till she arrive at a house built of straw .
And she knock at the door , and ask if they want a servant .
The mistress say she do , and if the girl be willing she might stay .
But day by day the poor maiden grow more and more sad , till at last her mistress beg her to say what be the matter .
Then she tell her story -- how she be go through the world seek after her husband .
And her mistress answer her , ` Where he be , none can tell good than the Sun , the Moon , and the Wind , for they go everywhere ! '
On hear these word the damsel set forth once more , and walk till she reach the Golden Castle , where live the Sun .
And she knock boldly at the door , say , ` All hail , O Sun !
I have come to ask if , of your charity , you will help me in my need .
By my own fault have I fall into these strait , and I be weary , for I seek my husband through the wide world . '
` Indeed ! '
speak the Sun .
` Do you , rich a you be , need help ?
But though you live in a palace without window , the Sun enters everywhere , and he know you . '
Then the bride tell him the whole story .
and do not hide her own ill-doing .
And the Sun listen , and be sorry for her ; and though he could not tell her where to go , he give her a nut , and bid her open it in a time of great distress .
The damsel thank him with all her heart , and depart , and walk and walk and walk , till she come to another castle , and knock at the door which be open by an old woman .
` All hail ! '
say the girl . '
I have come , of your charity , to ask your help ! '
` It be my mistress , the Moon , you seek .
I will tell her of your prayer . '
So the Moon come out , and when she saw the maiden she know her again , for she have watch her sleep both in the cottage and in the palace .
And she spake to her and say : ` Do you , rich a you be , need help ? '
Then the girl tell her the whole story , and the Moon listen , and be sorry for her ; and though she could not tell her where to find her husband , she give her an almond , and tell her to crack it when she be in great need .
So the damsel thank her , and depart , and walk and walk and walk till she come to another castle .
And she knock at the door , and say : ` All hail !
I have come to ask if , of your charity , you will help me in my need . '
` It be my lord , the Wind , that you want , ' answer the old woman who open it . '
I will tell him of your prayer . '
And the Wind look on her and know her again , for he have see her in the cottage and in the palace , and he spake to her and say : ` Do you , rich a you be , want help ? '
And she tell him the whole story .
And the Wind listen , and be sorry for her , and he give her a walnut that she be to eat in time of need .
But the girl do not go a the Wind expect .
She be tire and sad , and know not where to turn , so she begin to weep bitterly .
The Wind weep too for company , and say : ` Do n't be frighten ; I will go and see if I can find out something . '
And the Wind depart with a great noise and fuss , and in the twinkling of an eye he be back again , beam with delight .
` From what one person and another have let fall , ' he exclaim , ' I have contrive to learn that he be in the palace of the king , who keep him hidden l anyone should see him ; and that to-morrow he be to marry the princess , who , ugly creature that she be , have not be able to find any man to wed her . '
Who can tell the despair which seize the poor maiden when she hear this news !
As soon a she could speak she implore the Wind to do all he could to get the wedding put off for two or three day , for it would take her all that time to reach the palace of the king .
The Wind gladly promise to do what he could , and a he travel much faster than the maiden he soon arrive at the palace , where he find five tailor work night and day at the wedding clothes of the princess .
Down come the Wind right in the middle of their lace and satin and trimming of pearl !
Away they all go whiz !
through the open window , right up into the top of the tree , across the river , among the dance ear of corn !
After them run the tailor , catch , jumping , climb , but all to no purpose !
The lace be tear , the satin stain , the pearl knock off !
There be nothing for it but to go to the shop to buy fresh , and to begin all over again !
It be plainly quite impossible that the wedding clothes could be ready next day .
However , the king be much too anxious to see his daughter marry to listen to any excuse , and he declare that a dress must be put together somehow for the bride to wear .
But when he go to look at the princess , she be such a figure that he agree that it would be unfit for her position to be see in such a gown , and he order the ceremony and the banquet to be postpone for a few hour , so that the tailor might take the dress to piece and make it fit .
But by this time the maiden have arrive footsore and weary at the castle , and as soon a she reach the door she crack her nut and draw out of it the most beautiful mantle in the world .
Then she ring the bell , and ask : ` Is not the princess to be marry to-day ? '
` Yes , she be . '
` Ask her if she would like to buy this mantle . '
And when the princess saw the mantle she be delighted , for her wedding mantle have be spoil with all the other thing , and it be too late to make another .
So she tell the maiden to ask what price she would , and it should be give her .
The maiden fix a large sum , many piece of gold , but the princess have set her heart on the mantle , and give it readily .
Now the maiden hid her gold in the pocket of her dress , and turn away from the castle .
The moment she be out of sight she break her almond , and draw from it the most magnificent petticoat that ever be see .
Then she go back to the castle , and ask if the princess wish to buy any petticoat .
No sooner do the princess cast her eye on the petticoat than she declare they be even more beautiful than the mantle , and that she would give the maiden whatever price she want for them .
And the maiden name many piece of gold , which the princess pay her gladly , so pleased be she with her new possession .
Then the girl go down the step where none could watch her and crack her walnut , and out come the most splendid court dress that any dressmaker have ever invent ; and , carry it carefully in her arm , she knock at the door , and ask if the princess wish to buy a court dress .
When the message be deliver the princess sprang to her foot with delight , for she have be think that after all it be not much use to have a lovely mantle and elegant petticoat if she have no dress , and she know the tailor would never be ready in time .
So she send at once to say she would buy the dress , and what sum do the maiden want for it .
This time the maiden answer that the price of the dress be the permission to see the bridegroom .
The princess be not at all pleased when she hear the maiden 's reply , but , a she could not do without the dress , she be force to give in , and content herself with think that after all it do not matter much .
So the maiden be lead to the room which have be give to her husband .
And when she come near she touch him with the sprig of rosemary that she carry ; and his memory come back , and he know her , and kiss her , and declare that she be his true wife , and that he love her and no other .
Then they go back to the maiden 's home , and grow to be very old , and live happy all the day of their life .
The White Dove From the Danish .
A king have two son .
They be a pair of reckless fellow , who always have something foolish to do .
One day they row out alone on the sea in a little boat .
It be beautiful weather when they set out , but as soon a they have get some distance from the shore there arise a terrific storm .
The oar go overboard at once , and the little boat be toss about on the rolling billow like a nut-shell .
The prince have to hold fast by the seat to keep from be throw out of the boat .
In the midst of all this they meet a wonderful vessel -- it be a dough-trough , in which there sit an old woman .
She call to them , and say that they could still get to shore alive if they would promise her the son that be next to come to their mother the queen .
` We ca n't do that , ' shout the prince ; ` he do n't belong to u so we ca n't give him away . '
` Then you can rot at the bottom of the sea , both of you , ' say the old woman ; ` and perhaps it may be the case that your mother would rather keep the two son she have than the one she have n't get yet . '
Then she row away in her dough-trough , while the storm howl still loud than before , and the water dash over their boat until it be almost sinking .
Then the prince think that there be something in what the old woman have say about their mother , and be , of course , eager to save their life , they shout to her , and promise that she should have their brother if she would deliver them from this danger .
As soon a they have do so the storm cease and the wave fell .
The boat drive ashore below their father 's castle , and both prince be receive with open arm by their father and mother , who have suffer great anxiety for them .
The two brother say nothing about what they have promise , neither at that time nor later on when the queen 's third son come , a beautiful boy , whom she love more than anything else in the world .
He be bring up and educate in his father 's house until he be full grown , and still his brother have never see or hear anything about the witch to whom they have promise him before he be bear .
It happen one evening that there arise a raging storm , with mist and darkness .
It howl and roar around the king 's palace , and in the midst of it there come a loud knock on the door of the hall where the young prince be .
He go to the door and find there an old woman with a dough - trough on her back , who say to him that he must go with her at once ; his brother have promise him to her if she would save their life .
` Yes , ' say he ; ` if you save my brother ' life , and they promise me to you , then I will go with you . '
They therefore go down to the beach together , where he have to take his seat in the trough , along with the witch , who sail away with him , over the sea , home to her dwelling .
The prince be now in the witch 's power , and in her service .
The first thing she set him to be to pick feather .
` The heap of feather that you see here , ' say she , ` you must get finish before I come home in the evening , otherwise you shall be set to harder work . '
He start to the feather , and pick and pick until there be only a single feather leave that have not pass through his hand .
But then there come a whirlwind and send all the feather fly , and sweep them along the floor into a heap , where they lay a if they be trample together .
He have now to begin all his work over again , but by this time it only want an hour of evening , when the witch be to be expect home , and he easily saw that it be impossible for him to be finish by that time .
Then he hear something tapping at the window pane , and a thin voice say , ` Let me in , and I will help you . '
It be a white dove , which sit outside the window , and be peck at it with it beak .
He open the window , and the dove come in and set to work at once , and pick all the feather out of the heap with it beak .
Before the hour be past the feather be all nicely arrange : the dove fly out at the window , and at , the same moment the witch come in at the door .
` Well , well , ' say she , ` it be more than I would have expect of you to get all the feather put in order so nicely .
However , such a prince might be expect to have neat finger . '
Next morning the witch say to the prince , ` To-day you shall have some easy work to do .
Outside the door I have some firewood lying ; you must split that for me into little bit that I can kindle the fire with .
That will soon be do , but you must be finish before I come home . '
The prince get a little axe and set to work at once .
He split and cleave away , and think that he be get on fast ; but the day wear on until it be long past midday , and he be still very far from have finish .
He think , in fact , that the pile of wood rather grow big than small , in spite of what he take off it ; so he let his hand fall by his side , and dry the sweat from his forehead , and be ill at ease , for he know that it would be bad for him if he be not finish with the work before the witch come home .
Then the white dove come fly and settle down on the pile of wood , and cooed and say , ` Shall I help you ? '
` Yes , ' say the prince , ` many thanks for your help yesterday , and for what you offer to-day . '
Thereupon the little dove seize one piece of wood after another and split it with it beak .
The prince could not take away the wood as quickly a the dove could split it , and in a short time it be all cleft into little stick .
The dove then fly up on his shoulder and sit there and the prince thank it , and stroke and caress it white feather , and kiss it little red beak .
With that it be a dove no longer , but a beautiful young maiden , who stand by his side .
She tell him then that she be a princess whom the witch have steal , and have change to this shape , but with his kiss she have get her human form again ; and if he would be faithful to her , and take her to wife , she could free them both from the witch 's power .
The prince be quite captivate by the beautiful princess , and be quite willing to do anything whatsoever to get her for himself .
She then say to him , ` When the witch come home you must ask her to grant you a wish , when you have accomplish so well all that she have demand of you .
When she agree to this you must ask her straight out for the princess that she have fly about a a white dove .
But just now you must take a red silk thread and tie it round my little finger , so that you may be able to recognise me again , into whatever shape she turn me . '
The prince make haste to get the silk thread tie round her little white finger ; at the same moment the princess become a dove again and fly away , and immediately after that the old witch come home with her dough-trough on he back .
` Well , ' say she , ' I must say that you be clever at your work , and it be something , too , that such princely hand be not accustom to . '
` Since you be so well pleased with my work , say the prince , ` you will , no doubt , be willing to give me a little pleasure too , and give me something that I have take a fancy to . '
` Oh yes , indeed , ' say the old woman ; ` what be it that you want ? ' '
I want the princess here who be in the shape of a white dove , ' say the prince .
` What nonsense ! '
say the witch .
` Why should you imagine that there be princess here fly about in the shape of white dove ?
But if you will have a princess , you can get one such a we have them . '
She then come to him , drag a shaggy little grey as with long ear .
` Will you have this ? '
say she ; ` you ca n't get any other princess ! '
The prince use his eye and saw the red silk thread on one of the as 's hoof , so he say , ` Yes , just let me have it . '
` What will you do with it ? '
ask the witch . '
I will ride on it , ' say the prince ; but with that the witch drag it away again , and come back with an old , wrinkle , toothless hag , whose hand tremble with age .
` You can have no other princess , ' say she .
` Will you have her ? '
` Yes , I will , ' say the prince , for he saw the red silk thread on the old woman 's finger .
At this the witch become so furious that she dance about and knock everything to piece that she could lay her hand upon , so that the splinter fly about the ear of the prince and princess , who now stand there in her own beautiful shape .
Then their marriage have to be celebrate , for the witch have to stick to what she have promise , and he must get the princess whatever might happen afterwards .
The princess now say to him , ` At the marriage feast you may eat what you please , but you must not drink anything whatever , for if you do that you will forget me . '
This , however , the prince forget on the wedding day , and stretch out his hand and take a cup of wine ; but the princess be keep watch over him , and give him a push with her elbow , so that the wine fly over the table - cloth .
Then the witch get up and lay about her among the plate and dish , so that the piece fly about their ear , just a she have do when she be cheat the first time .
They be then take to the bridal chamber , and the door be shut .
Then the princess say , ` Now the witch have keep her promise , but she will do no more if she can help it , so we must fly immediately .
I shall lay two piece of wood in the bed to answer for u when the witch speak to u .
You can take the flower-pot and the glass of water that stand in the window , and we must slip out by that and get away . '
No sooner say than do .
They hurry off out into the dark night , the princess leading , because she know the way , have spy it out while she fly about a a dove .
At midnight the witch come to the door of the room and call in to them , and the two piece of wood answer her , so that she believe they be there , and go away again .
Before daybreak she be at the door again and call to them , and again the piece of wood answer for them .
She thus think that she have them , and when the sun rise the bridal night be past : she have then keep her promise , and could vent her anger and revenge on both of them .
With the first sunbeam she break into the room , but there she find no prince and no princess -- nothing but the two piece of firewood , which lay in the bed , and star , and speak not a word .
These she throw on the floor , so that they be splinter into a thousand piece , and off she hasten after the fugitive .
With the first sunbeam the princess say to the prince , ` Look round ; do you see anything behind u ? '
` Yes , I see a dark cloud , far away , ' say he .
` Then throw the flower-pot over your head , ' say she .
When this be do there be a large thick forest behind them .
When the witch come to the forest she could not get through it until she go home and bring her axe to cut a path .
A little after this the princess say again to the prince , ` Look round ; do you see anything behind u ? '
` Yes , ' say the prince , ` the big black cloud be there again . '
` Then throw the glass of water over your head , ' say she .
When he have do this there be a great lake behind them , and this the witch could not cross until she run home again and bring her dough-trough .
Meanwhile the fugitive have reach the castle which be the prince 's home .
They climb over the garden wall , run across the garden , and crept in at an open window .
By this time the witch be just at their heel , but the princess stand in the window and blew upon the witch ; hundred of white dove fly out of her mouth , flutter and flap around the witch 's head until she grow so angry that she turn into flint , and there she stand to this day , in the shape of a large flint stone , outside the window .
Within the castle there be great rejoicing over the prince and his bride .
His two elder brother come and kneel before him and confess what they have do , and say that he alone should inherit the kingdom , and they would always be his faithful subject .
The Troll 's Daughter From the Danish .
There be once a lad who go to look for a place .
As he go along he meet a man , who ask him where he be go .
He tell him his errand , and the stranger say , ` Then you can serve me ; I be just in want of a lad like you , and I will give you good wage -- a bushel of money the first year , two the second year , and three the third year , for you must serve me three year , and obey me in everything , however strange it seem to you .
You need not be afraid of take service with me , for there be no danger in it if you only know how to obey . '
The bargain be make , and the lad go home with the man to whom he have engage himself .
It be a strange place indeed , for he live in a bank in the middle of the wild forest , and the lad saw there no other person than his master .
The latter be a great troll , and have marvellous power over both men and beast .
Next day the lad have to begin his service .
The first thing that the troll set him to be to fee all the wild animal from the forest .
These the troll have tie up , and there be both wolf and bear , deer and hare , which the troll have gather in the stall and fold in his stable down beneath the ground , and that stable be a mile long .
The boy , however , accomplish all this work on that day , and the troll praise him and say that it be very well do .
Next morning the troll say to him , ` To-day the animal be not to be feed ; they do n't get the like of that every day .
You shall have leave to play about for a little , until they be to be feed again . '
Then the troll say some word to him which he do not understand , and with that the lad turn into a hare , and run out into the wood .
He get plenty to run for , too , for all the hunter aim at him , and try to shoot him , and the dog bark and run after him wherever they get wind of him .
He be the only animal that be leave in the wood now , for the troll have tie up all the others , and every hunter in the whole country be eager to knock him over .
But in this they meet with no success ; there be no dog that could overtake him , and no marksman that could hit him .
They shoot and shoot at him , and he run and run .
It be an unquiet life , but in the long run he get use to it , when he saw that there be no danger in it , and it even amuse him to befool all the hunter and dog that be so eager after him .
Thus a whole year pass , and when it be over the troll call him home , for he be now in his power like all the other animal .
The troll then say some word to him which he do not understand , and the hare immediately become a human be again .
` Well , how do you like to serve me ? '
say the troll , ` and how do you like be a hare ? '
The lad reply that he like it very well ; he have never be able to go over the ground so quickly before .
The troll then show him the bushel of money that he have already earn , and the lad be well pleased to serve him for another year .
The first day of the second year the boy have the same work to do a on the previous one -- namely , to fee all the wild animal in the troll 's stable .
When he have do this the troll again say some word to him , and with that he become a raven , and flew high up into the air .
This be delightful , the lad thought ; he could go even faster now than when he be a hare , and the dog could not come after him here .
This be a great delight to him , but he soon find out that he be not to be leave quite at peace , for all the marksman and hunter who saw him aim at him and fire away , for they have no other bird to shoot at than himself , a the troll have tie up all the others .
This , however , he also get use to , when he saw that they could never hit him , and in this way he fly about all that year , until the troll call him home again , say some strange word to him , and give him his human shape again .
` Well , how do you like be a raven ? '
say the troll . '
I like it very well , ' say the lad , ` for never in all my day have I be able to rise so high . '
The troll then show him the two bushel of money which he have earn that year , and the lad be well content to remain in his service for another year .
Next day he get his old task of feed all the wild beast .
When this be do the troll again say some word to him , and at these he turn into a fish , and sprang into the river .
He swim up and he swim down , and think it be pleasant to let himself drive with the stream .
In this way he come right out into the sea , and swim far and far out .
At last he come to a glass palace , which stand at the bottom of the sea .
He could see into all the room and hall , where everything be very grand ; all the furniture be of white ivory , inlaid with gold and pearl .
There be soft rug and cushion of all the colour of the rainbow , and beautiful carpet that look like the fine moss , and flower and tree with curiously crooked branch , both green and yellow , white and red , and there be also little fountain which spring up from the most beautiful snail-shells , and fell into bright mussel-shells , and at the same time make a most delightful music , which fill the whole palace .
The most beautiful thing of all , however , be a young girl who go about there , all alone .
She go about from one room to another , but do not seem to be happy with all the grandeur she have about her .
She walk in solitude and melancholy , and never even think of look at her own image in the polished glass wall that be on every side of her , although she be the pretty creature anyone could wish to see .
The lad thought so too while he swim round the palace and peep in from every side .
` Here , indeed , it would be good to be a man than such a poor dumb fish a I be now , ' say he to himself ; ` if I could only remember the word that the troll say when he change my shape , then perhaps I could help myself to become a man again . '
He swam and he ponder and he think over this until he remember the sound of what the troll say , and then he try to say it himself .
In a moment he stand in human form at the bottom of the sea .
He make haste then to enter the glass palace , and go up to the young girl and speak to her .
At first he nearly frighten the life out of her , but he talk to her so kindly and explain how he have come down there that she soon recover from her alarm , and be very pleased to have some company to relieve the terrible solitude that she live in .
Time pass so quickly for both of them that the youth -LRB- for now he be quite a young man , and no more a lad -RRB- forget altogether how long he have be there .
One day the girl say to him that now it be close on the time when he must become a fish again -- the troll would soon call him home , and he would have to go , but before that he must put on the shape of the fish , otherwise he could not pass through the sea alive .
Before this , while he be stay down there , she have tell him that she be a daughter of the same troll whom the youth serve , and he have shut her up there to keep her away from everyone .
She have now devise a plan by which they could perhaps succeed in get to see each other again , and spend the rest of their life together .
But there be much to attend to , and he must give careful heed to all that she tell him .
She tell him then that all the king in the country round about be in debt to her father the troll , and the king of a certain kingdom , the name of which she tell him , be the first who have to pay , and if he could not do so at the time appoint he would lose his head .
` And he can not pay , ' say she ; ' I know that for certain .
Now you must , first of all , give up your service with my father ; the three year be past , and you be at liberty to go .
You will go off with your six bushel of money , to the kingdom that I have tell you of , and there enter the service of the king .
When the time come near for his debt become due you will be able to notice by his manner that he be ill at ease .
You shall then say to him that you know well enough what it be that be weigh upon him -- that it be the debt which he owe to the troll and can not pay , but that you can lend him the money .
The amount be six bushel -- just what you have .
You shall , however , only lend them to him on condition that you may accompany him when he go to make the payment , and that you then have permission to run before him a a fool .
When you arrive at the troll 's abode , you must perform all kind of foolish trick , and see that you break a whole lot of his window , and do all other damage that you can .
My father will then get very angry , and a the king must answer for what his fool do he will sentence him , even although he have pay his debt , either to answer three question or to lose his life .
The first question my father will ask will be , `` Where be my daughter ? ''
Then you shall step forward and answer `` She be at the bottom of the sea . ''
He will then ask you whether you can recognise her , and to this you will answer `` Yes . ''
Then he will bring forward a whole troop of woman , and cause them to pass before you , in order that you may pick out the one that you take for his daughter .
You will not be able to recognise me at all , and therefore I will catch hold of you a I go past , so that you can notice it , and you must then make haste to catch me and hold me fast .
You have then answer his first question .
His next question will be , `` Where be my heart ? ''
You shall then step forward again and answer , `` It be in a fish . ''
`` Do you know that fish ? ''
he will say , and you will again answer `` Yes . ''
He will then cause all kind of fish to come before you , and you shall choose between them .
I shall take good care to keep by your side , and when the right fish come I will give you a little push , and with that you will seize the fish and cut it up .
Then all will be over with the troll ; he will ask no more question , and we shall be free to wed. ' When the youth have get all these direction a to what he have to do when he get ashore again the next thing be to remember the word which the troll say when he change him from a human be to an animal ; but these he have forget , and the girl do not know them either .
He go about all day in despair , and think and think , but he could not remember what they sound like .
During the night he could not sleep , until towards morning he fell into a slumber , and all at once it flash upon him what the troll use to say .
He make haste to repeat the word , and at the same moment he become a fish again and slip out into the sea .
Immediately after this he be call upon , and swim through the sea up the river to where the troll stand on the bank and restore him to human shape with the same word a before .
` Well , how do you like to be a fish ? '
ask the troll .
It be what he have like best of all , say the youth , and that be no lie , a everybody can guess .
The troll then show him the three bushel of money which he have earn during the past year ; they stand beside the other three , and all the six now belong to him .
` Perhaps you will serve me for another year yet , ' say the troll , ` and you will get six bushel of money for it ; that make twelve in all , and that be a pretty penny . '
` No , ' say the youth ; he think he have do enough , and be anxious to go to some other place to serve , and learn other people 's way ; but he would , perhaps , come back to the troll some other time .
The troll say that he would always be welcome ; he have serve him faithfully for the three year they have agree upon , and he could make no objection to his leave now .
The youth then get his six bushel of money , and with these he betook himself straight to the kingdom which his sweetheart have tell him of .
He get his money bury in a lonely spot close to the king 's palace , and then go in there and ask to be take into service .
He obtain his request , and be take on a stableman , to tend the king 's horse .
Some time pass , and he notice how the king always go about sorrowing and grieving , and be never glad or happy .
One day the king come into the stable , where there be no one present except the youth , who say straight out to him that , with his majesty 's permission , he wish to ask him why he be so sorrowful .
` It 's of no use speak about that , ' say the king ; ` you can not help me , at any rate . '
` You do n't know about that , ' say the youth ; ' I know well enough what it be that lie so heavy on your mind , and I know also of a plan to get the money pay . '
This be quite another case , and the king have more talk with the stableman , who say that he could easily lend the king the six bushel of money , but would only do it on condition that he should be allow to accompany the king when he go to pay the debt , and that he should then be dress like the king 's court fool , and run before him .
He would cause some trouble , for which the king would be severely speak to , but he would answer for it that no harm would befall him .
The king gladly agree to all that the youth propose , and it be now high time for them to set out .
When they come to the troll 's dwell it be no longer in the bank , but on the top of this there stand a large castle which the youth have never see before .
The troll could , in fact , make it visible or invisible , just a he please , and , know as much a he do of the troll 's magic art , the youth be not at all surprise at this .
When they come near to this castle , which look a if it be of pure glass , the youth run on in front a the king 's fool .
Heran sometimes face forward , sometimes backwards , stand sometimes on his head , and sometimes on his foot , and he dash in piece so many of the troll 's big glass window and door that it be something awful to see , and overturn everything he could , and make a fearful disturbance .
The troll come rush out , and be so angry and furious , and abuse the king with all his might for bring such a wretched fool with him , a he be sure that he could not pay the least bit of all the damage that have be do when he could not even pay off his old debt .
The fool , however , speak up , and say that he could do so quite easily , and the king then come forward with the six bushel of money which the youth have lent him .
They be measure and find to be correct .
This the troll have not reckon on , but he could make no objection against it .
The old debt be honestly pay , and the king get his bond back again .
But there still remain all the damage that have be do that day , and the king have nothing with which to pay for this .
The troll , therefore , sentence the king , either to answer three question that he would put to him , or have his head take off , a be agree on in the old bond .
There be nothing else to be do than to try to answer the troll 's riddle .
The fool then station himself just by the king 's side while the troll come forward with his question .
He first ask , ` Where be my daughter ? '
The fool speak up and say , ` She be at the bottom of the sea . '
` How do you know that ? '
say the troll .
` The little fish saw it , ' say the fool .
` Would you know her ? '
say the troll .
` Yes , bring her forward , ' say the fool .
The troll make a whole crowd of woman go past them , one after the other , but all these be nothing but shadow and deception .
Amongst the very last be the troll 's real daughter , who pinch the fool a she go past him to make him aware of her presence .
He thereupon catch her round the waist and hold her fast , and the troll have to admit that his first riddle be solve .
Then the troll ask again : ` Where be my heart ? '
` It be in a fish , ' say the fool .
` Would you know that fish ? '
say the troll .
` Yes , bring it forward , ' say the fool .
Then all the fish come swim past them , and meanwhile the troll 's daughter stand just by the youth 's side .
When at last the right fish come swim along she give him a nudge , and he seize it at once , drive his knife into it , and split it up , take the heart out of it , and cut it through the middle .
At the same moment the troll fell dead and turn into piece of flint .
With that a , ll the bond that the troll have bind be break ; all the wild beast and bird which he have catch and hide under the ground be free now , and disperse themselves in the wood and in the air .
The youth and his sweetheart enter the castle , which be now theirs , and hold their wedding ; and all the king roundabout , who have be in the troll 's debt , and be now out of it , come to the wedding , and salute the youth a their emperor , and he rule over them all , and keep peace between them , and live in his castle with his beautiful empress in great joy and magnificence .
And if they have not die since they be live there to this day .
Esben and the Witch From the Danish .
There be once a man who have twelve son : the eleven eldest be both big and strong , but the twelfth , whose name be Esben , be only a little fellow .
The eleven eldest go out with their father to field and forest , but Esben prefer to stay at home with his mother , and so he be never reckon at all by the rest , but be a sort of outcast among them .
When the eleven have grow up to be men they decide to go out into the world to try their fortune , and they plague their father to give them what they require for the journey .
The father be not much in favour of this , for he be now old and weak , and could not well spare them from help him with his work , but in the long run he have to give in .
Each one of the eleven get a fine white horse and money for the journey , and so they say farewell to their father and their home , and ride away .
As for Esben , no one have ever think about him ; his brother have not even say farewell to him .
After the eleven be go Esben go to his father and say , ` Father , give me also a horse and money ; I should also like to see round about me in the world . '
` You be a little fool , ' say his father .
` If I could have let you go , and keep your eleven brother at home , it would have be good for me in my old age . '
` Well , you will soon be rid of me at any rate , ' say Esben .
As he could get no other horse , he go into the forest , break off a branch , strip the bark off it , so that it become still white than his brother ' horse , and , mount on this .
ride off after his eleven brother .
The brother ride on the whole day , and towards even they come to a great forest , which they enter .
Far within the wood they come to a little house , and knock at the door .
There come an old , ugly , beard hag , and open it , and they ask her whether all of them could get quarter for the night .
` Yes , ' say the old , beard hag , ` you shall all have quarter for the night , and , in addition , each of you shall have one of my daughter . '
The eleven brother think that they have come to very hospitable people .
They be well attend to , and when they go to bed , each of them get one of the hag 's daughter .
Esben have be come along behind them , and have follow the same way , and have also find the same house in the forest .
He slip into this , without either the witch or her daughter notice him , and hide himself under one of the bed .
A little before midnight he creep quietly out and waken his brother .
He tell these to change night-caps with the witch 's daughter .
The brother saw no reason for this , but , to get rid of Esben 's persistence , they make the exchange , and sleep soundly again .
When midnight come Esben hear the old witch come creep along .
She have a broad-bladed axe in her hand , and go over all the eleven bed .
It be so dark that she could not see a hand 's breadth before her , but she felt her way , and hack the head off all the sleeper who have the men 's night-caps on -- and these be her own daughter .
As soon a she have go her way Esben waken his brother , and they hastily take their horse and ride off from the witch 's house , glad that they have escape so well .
They quite forget to thank Esben for what he have do for them .
When they have ride onwards for some time they reach a king 's palace , and inquire there whether they could be take into service .
Quite easily , they be tell , if they would be stableman , otherwise the king have no use for them .
They be quite ready for this , and get the task of look after all the king 's horse .
Long after them come Esben rid on his stick , and he also want to get a place in the palace , but no one have any use for him , and he be tell that he could just go back the way he have come .
However , he stay there and occupy himself a best he could .
He get his food , but nothing more , and by night he lay just where he could .
At this time there be in the palace a knight who be call Sir Red .
He be very well like by the king , but hat by everyone else , for he be wicked both in will and deed .
This Sir Red become angry with the eleven brother , because they would not always stand at attention for him , so he determine to avenge himself on them .
One day , therefore , he go to the king , and say that the eleven brother who have come to the palace a little while ago , and serve a stableman , could do a great deal more than they pretend .
One day he have hear them say that if they like they could get for the king a wonderful dove which have a feather of gold and a feather of silver time about .
But they would not procure it unless they be threaten with death .
The king then have the eleven brother call before him , and say to them , ` You have say that you can get me a dove which have feather of gold and silver time about . '
All the eleven assure him that they have never say anything of the kind , and they do not believe that such a dove exist in the whole world .
` Take your own mind of it , ' say the king ; ` but if you do n't get that dove within three day you shall lose your head , the whole lot of you . '
With that the king let them go , and there be great grief among them ; some wept and others lament .
At that moment Esben come along , and , see their sorrowful look , say to them , ` Hello , what 's the matter with you ? '
` What good would it do to tell you , you little fool ?
You ca n't help u . '
` Oh , you do n't know that , ' answer Esben . '
I have help you before . '
In the end they tell him how unreasonable the king be , and how he have order them to get for him a dove with feather of gold and silver time about .
` Give me a bag of pea ' say Esben , ` and I shall see what I can do for you . '
Esben get his bag of pea ; then he take his white stick , and say , Fly quick , my little stick , Carry me across the stream .
Straightway the stick carry him across the river and straight into the old witch 's courtyard .
Esben have notice that she have such a dove ; so when he arrive in the courtyard he shake the pea out of the bag , and the dove come flutter down to pick them up .
Esben catch it at once , put it into the bag , and hurry off before the witch catch sight of him ; but the next moment she come run , and shout after him , ' I Hey be that you , Esben .
? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Is it you that have take my dove ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Was it you that make me kill my eleven daughter ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Are you come back again ? '
` That may be , ' say Esben .
` Then you 'll catch it , ' shout the witch .
The stick carry Esben with the dove back to the king 's palace , and his brother be greatly delight .
The king thank them many time for the dove , and give them in return both silver and gold .
At this Sir Red become still more embittered , and again thought of how to avenge himself on the brother .
One day he go to the king and tell him that the dove be by no mean the best thing that the brother could get for him ; for one day he have hear them talk quietly among themselves , and they have say that they could procure a boar whose bristle be of gold and silver time about .
The king again summon the brother before him , and ask whether it be true that they have say that they could get for him a boar whose bristle be of gold and silver time about .
` No , ' say the brother ; they have never say nor think such a thing , and they do not believe that there be such a boar in the whole world .
` You must get me that boar within three day , ' say the king , ` or it will cost you your head . '
With that they have to go .
This be still bad than before , they think .
Where could they get such a marvellous boar ?
They all go about hang their head ; but when only one day remain of the three Esben come along .
When he saw his brother ' sorrowful look he cry , ` Hallo , what 's the matter now ? '
` Oh , what 's the use of tell you ? '
say his brother .
` You ca n't help u , at any rate . '
` Ah , you do n't know that , ' say Esben ; ` I 've help you before . '
In the end they tell him how Sir Red have stir up the king against them , so that he have order them to get for him a boar with bristle of gold and silver time about .
` That 's all right , ' say Esben ; ` give me a sack of malt , and it be not quite impossible that I may be able to help you . '
Esben get his sack of malt ; then he take his little white stick , set himself upon it , and say , Fly quick , my little stick , Carry me across the stream .
Off go the stick with him , and very soon he be again in the witch 's courtyard .
There he empty out the malt , and next moment come the boar , which have every second bristle of gold and of silver .
Esben at once put it into his sack and hurry off before the witch should catch sight of him ; but the next moment she come run , and shout after him , ` Hey !
be that you , Esben ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Is it you that have take my pretty boar ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` It be also you that take my dove ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` And it be you that make me kill my eleven daughter ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Are you come back again ? '
` That may be , ' say Esben .
` Then you 'll catch it , ' say the witch .
Esben be soon back at the palace with the boar , and his brother scarcely know which leg to stand on , so rejoice be they that they be safe again .
Not one of them , however , ever think of thank Esben for what he have do for them .
The king be still more rejoiced over the boar than he have be over the dove , and do not know what to give the brother for it .
At this Sir Red be again possess with anger and envy , and again he go about and plan how to get the brother into trouble .
One day he go again to the king and say , ` These eleven brother have now procure the dove and the boar , but they can do much more than that ; I know they have say that if they like they could get for the king a lamp that can shine over seven kingdom . '
` If they have say that , ' say the king , ` they shall also be make to bring it to me .
That would be a glorious lamp for me . '
Again the king send a message to the brother to come up to the palace .
They go accordingly , although very unwillingly , for they suspect that Sir Red have fall on some new plan to bring them into trouble .
As soon a they come before the king he say to them , ` You brother have say that you could , if you like , get for me a lamp that can shine over seven kingdom .
That lamp must be mine within three day , or it will cost you your life . '
The brother assure him that they have never say so , and they be sure that no such lamp exist , but their word be of no avail .
` The lamp ! '
say the king , ` or it will cost you your head . '
The brother be now in great despair than ever .
They do not know what to do , for such a lamp no one have ever hear of .
But just a thing look their bad along come Esben .
` Something wrong again ? '
say he .
` What 's the matter with you now ? '
` Oh , it 's no use tell you , ' say they .
` You ca n't help u , at any rate . '
` Oh , you might at least tell me , ' say Esben ; ' I have help you before . '
In the end they tell him that the king have order them to bring him a lamp which could shine over seven kingdom , but such a lamp no one have ever hear tell of .
` Give me a bushel of salt , ' say Esben , ` and we shall see how matter go . '
He get his bushel of salt , and then mount his little white stick , and say , Fly quick , my little stick , Carry me across the stream .
With that both he and his bushel of salt be over beside the witch 's courtyard .
But now matter be less easy , for he could not get inside the yard , a it be even and the gate be lock .
Finally he hit upon a plan ; he get up on the roof and creep down the chimney .
He search all round for the lamp , but could find it nowhere , for the witch always have it safely guard , a it be one of her most precious treasure .
When he become tired of search for it he creep into the bake - oven , intend to lie down there and sleep till morning ; but just at that moment he hear the witch call from her bed to one of her daughter , and tell her to make some porridge for her .
She have grow hungry , and have take such a fancy to some porridge .
The daughter get out of bed , kindle the fire , and put on a pot with water in it .
` You must n't put any salt in the porridge , though , ' cry the witch .
` No , neither will I , ' say the daughter ; but while she be away get the meal Esben slip out of the oven and empty the whole bushel of salt into the pot .
The daughter come back then and put in the meal , and after it have boil a little she take it in to her mother .
The witch take a spoonful and taste it .
` Uh ! '
say she ; ` do n't I tell you not to put any salt in it , and it 's just as salt a the sea . '
So the daughter have to go and make new porridge , and her mother warn her strictly not to put any salt in it .
But now there be no water in the house , so she ask her mother to give her the lamp , so that she could go to the well for more .
` There you have it , then , ' say the witch ; ` but take good care of it . '
The daughter take the lamp which shone over seven kingdom , and go out to the well for water , while Esben slip out after her .
When she be go to draw the water from the well she set the lamp down on a stone beside her .
Esben watch his chance , seize the lamp , and give her a push from behind , so that she plump head first into the well .
Then he make off with the lamp .
But the witch get out of her bed and ran after him , cry : ` Hey !
be that you again , Esben ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Was it you that take my dove ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Was it also you that take my boar ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` And it be you that make me kill my eleven daughter ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` And now you have take my lamp , and drown my twelfth daughter in the well ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` Are you come back again ? '
` That may be , ' say Esben .
` Then you 'll catch it , ' say the witch .
It be only a minute before the stick have again land Esben at the king 's palace , and the brother be then free from their distress .
The king give them many fine present , but Esben do not get even so much a thanks from them .
Never have Sir Red be so eat up with envy a he be now , and he rack his brain day and night to find something quite impossible to demand from the brother .
One day he go to the king and tell him that the lamp the brother have procure be good enough , but they could still get for him something that be far good .
The king ask what that be .
` It be , ' say Sir Red , ` the most beautiful coverlet that any mortal ever heard tell of .
It also have the property that , when anyone touch it , it sound so that it can be hear over eight kingdom . '
` That must be a splendid coverlet , ' say the king , and he at once send for the brother .
` You have say that you know of a coverlet , the most beautiful in the whole world , and which sound over eight kingdom when anyone touch it .
You shall procure it for me , or else lose your life , ' say he .
The brother answer him that they have never say a word about such a coverlet , do not believe it exist , and that it be quite impossible for them to procure it .
But the king would not hear a word ; he drive them away , tell them that if they do not get it very soon it would cost them their head .
Things look very black again for the brother , for they be sure there be no escape for them .
The young of them , indeed , ask where Esben be , but the others say that that little fool could scarcely keep himself in clothes , and it be not to be expect that he could help them .
Not one of them think it worth while to look for Esben , but he soon come along of himself .
` Well , what 's the matter now ? '
say he .
` Oh , what 's the use of tell you ? '
say the brother .
` You ca n't help u , at any rate . '
` Ah !
who know that ? '
say Esben . '
I have help you before . '
In the end the brother tell him about the coverlet which , when one touch it , sound so that it could be hear over eight kingdom .
Esben think that this be the bad errand that he have have yet , but he could not do bad than fail , and so he would make the attempt .
He again take his little white stick , set himself on it , and say , Fly quick , my little stick , Carry me across the stream .
Next moment he be across the river and beside the witch 's house .
It be even , and the door be lock , but he know the way down the chimney .
When he have get into the house , however , the bad yet remain to do , for the coverlet be on the bed in which the witch lay and slept .
He slip into the room without either she or her daughter wakening ; but as soon a he touch the coverlet to take it it sound so that it could be hear over eight kingdom .
The witch awoke , spring out of bed , and catch hold of Esben .
He struggle with her , but could not free himself , and the witch call to her daughter , ` Come and help me ; we shall put him into the little dark room to be fatten .
Ho , ho !
now I have him ! '
Esben be now put into a little dark hole , where he neither saw sun nor moon , and there he be feed on sweet milk and nut-kernels .
The daughter have enough to do crack nut for him , and at the end of fourteen day she have only one tooth leave in her mouth ; she have break all the rest with the nut .
In this time however , she have take a liking to Esben , and would willingly have set him free , but could not .
When some time have pass the witch tell her daughter to go and cut a finger off Esben , so that she could see whether he be nearly fat enough yet .
The daughter go and tell Esben , and ask him what she should do .
Esben tell her to take an iron nail and wrap a piece of skin round it : she could then give her mother this to bite at .
The daughter do so , but when the witch bit it she cry , ` Uh !
no , no !
This be nothing but skin and bone ; he must be fatten much longer yet . '
So Esben be feed for a while longer on sweet milk and nut-kernels , until one day the witch think that now he must surely be fat enough , and tell her daughter again to go and cut a finger off him .
By this time Esben be tire of stay in the dark hole , so he tell her to go and cut a teat off a cow , and give it to the witch to bite at .
This the daughter do , and the witch cry , ` Ah !
now he be fat -- so fat that one can scarcely feel the bone in him .
Now he shall be kill . '
Now this be just the very time that the witch have to go to Troms Church , where all the witch gather once every year , so she have no time to deal with Esben herself .
She therefore tell her daughter to heat up the big oven while she be away , take Esben out of his prison , and roast him in there before she come back .
The daughter promise all this , and the witch go off on her journey .
The daughter then make the oven as hot a could be , and take Esben out of his prison in order to roast him .
She bring the oven spade , and tell Esben to seat himself on it , so that she could shoot him into the oven .
Esben accordingly take his seat on it , but when she have get him to the mouth of the oven he spread his leg out wide , so that she could not get him push in .
` You must n't sit like that , ' say she .
` How then ? '
say Esben .
` You must cross your leg , ' say the daughter ; but Esben could not understand what she mean by this .
` Get out of the way , ' say she , ` and I will show you how to place yourself . '
She seat herself on the oven spade , but no sooner have she do so than Esben lay hold of it , shoot her into the oven , and fasten the door of it .
Then he run and seize the coverlet , but as soon a he do so it sound so that it could be hear over eight kingdom , and the witch , who be at Troms Church , come fly home , and shout , ` Hey !
be that you again , Esben ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` It be you that make me kill my eleven daughter ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` And take my dove ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` And my beautiful boar ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` And drown my twelfth daughter in the well , and take my lamp ? '
` Ye -- e -- s ! '
` And now you have roast my thirteenth and last daughter in the oven , and take my coverlet ? '
` YeÄeÄs ! '
` Are you come back again ? '
` No , never again , ' say Esben .
At this the witch become so furious that she spring into numberless piece of flint , and from this come all the flint stone that one find about the country .
Esben have find again his little stick , which the witch have take from him , so he say , Fly quick , my little stick , Carry me across the stream .
Next moment he be back at the king 's palace .
Here thing be in a bad way , for the king have throw all the eleven brother into prison , and they be to be execute very shortly because they have not bring him the coverlet .
Esben now go up to the king and give him the coverlet , with which the king be greatly delighted .
When he touch it it could be hear over eight kingdom , and all the other king sat and be angry because they have not one like it .
Esben also tell how everything have happen , and how Sir Red have do the brother all the ill he could devise because he be envious of them .
The brother be at once set at liberty , while Sir Red , for his wickedness , be hang on the high tree that could be find , and so he get the reward he deserve .
Much be make of Esben and his brother , and these now thank him for all that he have do for them .
The twelve of them receive as much gold and silver a they could carry , and betook themselves home to their old father .
When he saw again his twelve son , whom he have never expect to see more , he be so glad that he weep for joy .
The brother tell him how much Esben have do , and how he have save their life , and from that time forward he be no long the butt of the rest at home .
Princess Minon-minette Bibliotheque de Fees et aes Genies Once upon a time there live a young king whose name be Souci , and he have be bring up , ever since he be a baby , by the fairy Inconstancy .
Now the fairy Girouette have a kind heart , but she be a very try person to live with , for she never know her own mind for two minute together , and a she be the sole ruler at Court till the prince grow up everything be always at six and seven .
At first she determine to follow the old custom of keep the young king ignorant of the duty he would have to perform some day ; then , quite suddenly , she resign the rein of government into his hand ; but , unluckily , it be too late to train him properly for the post .
However , the fairy do not think of that , but , carry away by her new idea , she hastily form a Council , and name a Prime Minister the excellent ` Ditto , ' so call because he have never be know to contradict anybody .
Young Prince Souci have a handsome face , and at the bottom a good deal of common sense ; but he have never be taught good manner , and be shy and awkward ; and have , besides , never learn how to use his brain .
Under these circumstance it be not surprising that the Council do not get through much work .
Indeed , the affair of the country fell into such disorder that at last the people break out into open rebellion , and it be only the courage of the king , who continue to play the flute while sword and spear be flash before the palace gate , that prevent civil war from be declare .
No sooner be the revolt put down than the Council turn their attention to the question of the young king 's marriage .
Various princess be propose to him , and the fairy , who be anxious to get the affair over before she leave the Court for ever , give it a her opinion that the Princess Diaphana would make the most suitable wife .
Accordingly envoy be send to bring back an exact report of the princess 's look and way , and they return say that she be tall and well make , but so very light that the equerry who accompany her in her walk have to be always watch her , l she should suddenly be blow away .
This have happen so often that her subject live in terror of lose her altogether , and try everything they could think of to keep her to the ground .
They even suggest that she should carry weight in her pocket , or have them tie to her ankle ; but this idea be give up , a the princess find it so uncomfortable .
At length it be decide that she be never to go out in a wind , and in order to make matter sure still the equerry each hold the end of a string which be fasten to her waist .
The Council talk over this report for some day , and then the king make up his mind that he would judge for himself , and pretend to be his own ambassador .
This plan be by no mean new , but it have often succeed , and , anyhow , they could think of nothing well .
Such a splendid embassy have never before be see in any country .
The kingdom be leave in the charge of the Prime Minister , who answer ` Ditto ' to everything ; but the choice be good than it seem , for the worthy man be much beloved by the people , a he agree with all they say , and they leave him feel very pleased with themselves and their own wisdom .
When the king arrive at Diaphana 's Court he find a magnificent reception await him , for , though they pretend not to know who he be , secret like this be never hide .
Now the young king have a great dislike to long ceremony , so he propose that his second interview with the princess should take place in the garden .
The princess make some difficulty , but , a the weather be lovely and very still , she at last consented to the king 's wish .
But no sooner have they finish their first bow and curtsey than a slight breeze sprung up , and begin to sway the princess , whose equerry have retire out of respect .
The king go forward to steady her , but the wind that he cause only drive her further away from him .
He rush after her exclaim , ' O princess !
be you really run away from me ? '
` Good gracious , no ! '
she reply .
` Run a little quicker and you will be able to stop me , and I shall be for ever grateful .
That be what come of talk in a garden , ' she add in disgust ; ` a if one be n't much well in a room that be tightly close all round . '
The king run as fast a he could , but the wind run faster still , and in a moment the princess be whirl to the bottom of the garden , which be bound by a ditch .
She clear it like a bird , and the king , who be oblige to stop short at the edge , saw the lovely Diaphana flying over the plain , sometimes drive to the right , sometimes to the left , till at last she vanish out of sight .
By this time the whole court be run over the plain , some on foot and some on horseback , all hurry to the help of their princess , who really be in some danger , for the wind be rise to the force of a gale .
The king look on for a little , and then return with his attendant to the palace , reflect all the while on the extreme lightness of his propose bride and the absurdity of have a wife that rise in the air well than any kite .
He think on the whole that it would be wiser not to wait long , but to depart at once , and he start on horseback at the very moment when the princess have be find by her follower , wet to the skin , and blow against a rick .
Souci meet the carriage which be bring her home , and stop to congratulate her on her escape , and to advise her to put on dry clothes .
Then he continue his journey .
It take a good while for the king to get home again , and he be rather cross at have have so much trouble for nothing .
Besides which , his courtier make fun at his adventure , and he do not like be laugh at , though of course they do not dare to do it before his face .
And the end of it be that very soon he start on his travel again , only allow one equerry to accompany him , and even this attendant he manage to lose the moment he have leave his own kingdom behind him .
Now it be the custom in those day for prince and princess to be bring up by fairy , who love them a their own child , and do not mind what inconvenience they put other people to for their sake , for all the world a if they have be real mother .
The fairy Aveline , who live in a country that touch at one point the kingdom of King Souci , have under her care the lovely Princess Minon-Minette , and have make up her mind to marry her to the young king , who , in spite of his awkward manner , which could be improve , be really very much nice than most of the young men she be likely to meet .
So Aveline make her preparation accordingly , and begin by arrange that the equerry should lose himself in the forest , after which she take away the king 's sword and his horse while he lay asleep under a tree .
Her reason for this be that she felt persuade that , find himself suddenly alone and rob of everything , the king would hide his real birth , and would have to fall back on his power of please , like other men , which would be much good for him .
When the king awoke and find that the tree to which he have tie his horse have it low branch broken , and that nothing living be in sight , he be much dismay , and seek high and low for his lost treasure , but all in vain .
After a time he begin to get hungry , so he decide that he have well try to find his way out of the forest , and perhaps he might have a chance of get something to eat .
He have only go a few step when he meet Aveline , who have take the shape of an old woman with a heavy bundle of faggot on her back .
She stagger along the path and almost fell at his foot , and Souci , afraid that she might have hurt herself , pick her up and set her on her foot again before pass on his way .
But he be not to be let off so easy .
` What about my bundle ? '
cry the old woman .
` Where be your politeness ?
Really , you seem to have be very nicely bring up !
What have they teach you ? '
` Taught me ?
Nothing , ' reply he . '
I can well believe it ! '
she say .
` You do n't know even how to pick up a bundle .
Oh , you can come near ; I be clever than you , and know how to pick up a bundle very well . '
The king blush at her word , which he felt have a great deal of truth in them , and take up the bundle meekly .
Aveline , delight at the success of her first experiment , hobble along after him , chatter all the while , a old woman do . '
I wish , ' she say , ` that all king have do as much once in their life .
Then they would know what a lot of trouble it take to get wood for their fire . '
Souci felt this to be true , and be sorry for the old woman .
` Where be we go to ? '
ask he .
` To the castle of the White Demon ; and if you be in want of work I will find you something to do . '
` But I ca n't do anything , ' he say , ` except carry a bundle , and I sha n't earn much by that . '
` Oh , you be learn , ' reply the old woman , ` and it be n't bad for a first lesson . '
But the king be pay very little attention to her , for he be rather cross and very tired .
Indeed , he felt that he really could not carry the bundle any further , and be about to lay it down when up come a young maiden more beautiful than the day , and cover with precious stone .
She run to them , exclaim to the old woman , ` Oh , you poor thing !
I be just come after you to see if I could help you . '
` Here be a young man , ' reply the old woman , ` who will be quite ready to give you up the bundle .
You see he do not look a if he enjoy carry it . '
` Will you let me take it , sir ? '
she ask .
But the king felt ashamed of himself , and hold on to it tightly , while the presence of the princess put him in a good temper .
So they all travel together till they arrive at a very ordinary-looking house , which Aveline point out a the castle of the White Demon , and tell the king that he might put down his bundle in the courtyard .
The young man be terribly afraid of be recognise by someone in this strange position , and would have turn on his heel and go away have it not be for the thought of Minon-Minette .
Still , he felt very awkward and lonely , for both the princess and the old woman have enter the castle without take the slight notice of the young man , who remain where he be for some time , not quite know what he have well do .
At length a servant arrive and lead him up into a beautiful room fill with people , who be either play on musical instrument or talk in a lively manner , which astonish the king , who stand silently listen , and not at all please at the want of attention pay him .
Matters go on this way for some time .
Every day the king fell more and more in love with Minon-Minette , and every day the princess seem more and more take up with other people .
At last , in despair , the prince seek out the old woman , to try to get some advice from her a to his conduct , or , anyway , to have the pleasure of talk about Minon-Minette .
He find her spin in an underground chamber , but quite ready to tell him all he want to know .
In answer to his question he learn that in order to win the hand of the princess it be not enough to be bear a prince , for she would marry nobody who have not prove himself faithful , and have , besides , all those talent and accomplishment which help to make people happy .
For a moment Souci be very much cast down on hear this , but then he pluck up .
` Tell me what I must do in order to win the heart of the princess , and no matter how hard it be I will do it .
And show me how I can repay you for your kindness , and you shall have anything I can give you .
Shall I bring in your bundle of faggot every day ? '
` It be enough that you should have make the offer , ' reply the old woman ; and she add , hold out a skein of thread , ` Take this ; one day you will be thankful for it , and when it become useless your difficulty will be past . '
` Is it the skein of my life ? '
he ask .
` It be the skein of your love 's ill-luck , ' she say .
And he take it and go away .
Now the fairy Girouette , who have bring up Souci , have an old friend call Grimace , the protectress of Prince Fluet .
Grimace often talk over the young prince 's affair with Girouette , and , when she decide that he be old enough to govern his own kingdom , consult Girouette a to a suitable wife .
Girouette , who never stop to think or to make inquiry , draw such a delightful picture of Minon-Minette that Grimace determine to spare no pain to bring about the marriage , and accordingly Fluet be present at court .
But though the young man be pleasant and handsome , the princess think him rather womanish in some way , and display her opinion so openly a to draw upon herself and Aveline the anger of the fairy , who declare that Minon-Minette should never know happiness till she have find a bridge without an arch and a bird without feather .
So say , she also go away .
Before the king set out afresh on his travel Aveline have restore to him his horse and his sword , and though these be but small consolation for the absence of the princess , they be good than nothing , for he felt that somehow they might be the mean of lead him back to her .
After cross several desert the king arrive at length in a country that seem inhabited , but the instant he step over the border he be seize and fling into chain , and drag at once to the capital .
He ask his guard why he be treat like this , but the only answer he get be that he be in the territory of the Iron King , for in those day country have no name of their own , but be call after their ruler .
The young man be lead into the presence of the Iron King , who be seat on a black throne in a hall also hang with black , a a token of mourn for all the relation whom he have put to death .
` What be you do in my country ? '
he cry fiercely . '
I come here by accident , ' reply Souci , ` and if I ever escape from your clutch I will take warning by you and treat my subject differently . '
` Do you dare to insult me in my own court ? '
cry the king .
` Away with him to Little Ease ! '
Now Little Ease be an iron cage hung by four thick chain in the middle of a great vaulted hall , and the prisoner inside could neither sit , nor stand , nor lie ; and , besides that , he be make to suffer by turn unbearable heat and cold , while a hundred heavy bolt keep everything safe .
Girouette , whose business it be to see after Souci , have forget his existence in the excitement of some new idea , and he would not have be alive long to trouble anybody if Aveline have not come to the rescue and whisper in his ear , ` And the skein of thread ? '
He take it up obediently , though he do not see how it would help him but he tie it round one of the iron bar of his cage , which seem the only thing he could do , and give a pull .
To his surprise the bar give way at once , and he find he could break it into a thousand piece .
After this it do not take him long to get out of his cage , or to treat the closely barred window of the hall in the same manner .
But even after he have do all this freedom appear a far from him a ever , for between him and the open country be a high wall , and so smooth that not even a monkey could climb it .
Then Souci 's heart die within him .
He saw nothing for it but to submit to some horrible death , but he determine that the Iron King should not profit more than he could help , and fling his precious thread into the air , say , a he do so , ' O fairy , my misfortune be great than your power .
I be grateful for your goodwill , but take back your gift ! '
The fairy have pity on his youth and want of faith , and take care that one end of the thread remain in his hand .
He suddenly felt a jerk , and saw that the thread must have catch on something , and this thought fill him with the daring that be bear of despair .
` Better , ' he say to himself , ` trust to a thread than to the mercy of a king ; ' and , glide down , he find himself safe on the other side of the wall .
Then he roll up the thread and put it carefully into his pocket , breathe silent thanks to the fairy .
Now Minon-Minette have be keep inform by Aveline of the prince 's adventure , and when she hear of the way in which he have be treat by the Iron King she become furious , and begin to prepare for war .
She make her plan with all the secrecy she could , but when great army be collect people be apt to suspect a storm be brew , and of course it be very difficult to keep anything hidden from fairy godmother .
Anyway , Grimace soon heard of it , and a she have never forgive Minon-Minette for refuse Prince Fluet , she felt that here be her chance of revenge .
Up to this time Aveline have be able to put a stop to many of Grimace 's spiteful trick , and to keep guard over Minon-Minette , but she have no power over anything that happen at a distance ; and when the princess declare her intention of put herself at the head of her army , and begin to train herself to bear fatigue by hunt daily , the fairy entreat her to be careful never to cross the border of her dominion without Aveline to protect her .
The princess at once give her promise , and all go well for some day .
Unluckily one morning , a Minon-Minette be canter slowly on her beautiful white horse , think a great deal about Souci and not at all of the boundary of her kingdom -LRB- of which , indeed , she be very ignorant -RRB- , she suddenly find herself in front of a house make entirely of dead leaf , which somehow bring all sort of unpleasant thing into her head .
She remember Aveline 's warning , and try to turn her horse , but it stand as still a if it have be marble .
Then the princess felt that she be slowly , and against her will , be drag to the ground .
She shriek , and clung tightly to the saddle , but it be all in vain ; she long to fly , but something outside herself prove too strong for her , and she be force to take the path that lead to the House of Dead Leaves .
Scarcely have her foot touch the threshold than Grimace appear .
` So here you be at last , Minon-Minette !
I have be watch for you a long time , and my trap be ready for you from the beginning .
Come here , my darling !
I will teach you to make war on my friend !
Things wo n't turn out exactly a you fancy .
What you have get to do now be to go on your knee to the king and crave his pardon , and before he consent to a peace you will have to implore him to grant you the favour of become his wife .
Meanwhile you will have to be my servant . '
From that day the poor princess be put to the hardest and dirty work , and each morning something more disagreeable seem to await her .
Besides which , she have no food but a little black bread , and no bed but a little straw .
Out of pure spite she be send in the heat of the day to look after the geese , and would most likely have get a sunstroke if she have not happen to pick up in the field a large fan , with which she shelter her face .
To be sure , a fan seem rather an odd possession for a goose girl , but the princess do not think of that , and she forget all her trouble when , on open the fan to use it a a parasol , out tumble a letter from her lover .
Then she felt sure that the fairy have not forget her , and take heart .
When Grimace saw that Minon-Minette still manage to look as white a snow , instead of be burn as brown a a berry , she wonder what could have happen , and begin to watch her closely .
The following day , when the sun be at it high and hot , she notice her draw a fan from the fold of her dress and hold it before her eye .
The fairy , in a rage , try to snatch it from her , but the princess would not let it go .
` Give me that fan at once ! '
cried Grimace .
` Never while I live ! '
answer the princess , and , not know where it would be safe , place it under her foot .
In an instant she felt herself rise from the ground , with the fan always beneath her , and while Grimace be too much blind by her fury to notice what be go on the princess be quickly soar out of her reach .
All this time Souci have be wander through the world with his precious thread carefully fasten round him , seek every possible and impossible place where his beloved princess might chance to be .
But though he sometimes find trace of her , or even message scratch on a rock , or cut in the bark of a tree , she herself be nowhere to be find .
` If she be not on the earth , ' say Souci to himself , ` perhaps she be hide somewhere in the air .
It be there that I shall find her . '
So , by the help of his thread , he try to mount upwards , but he could go such a little way , and hurt himself dreadfully when he tumble back to earth again .
Still he do not give up , and after many day of effort and tumble he find to his great joy that he could go a little high and stay up a little long than he have do at first , and by-and-bye he be able to live in the air altogether .
But ala !
the world of the air seem a empty of her a the world below , and Souci be begin to despair , and to think that he must go and search the world that lay in the sea .
He be float sadly along , not pay any heed to where he be go , when he saw in the distance a beautiful , bright sort of bird come towards him .
His heart beat fast -- he do not know why -- and a they both draw near the voice of the princess exclaim , ` Behold the bird without feather and the bridge without an arch ! '
So their first meeting take place in the air , but it be none the less happy for that ; and the fan grow big enough to hold the king as well a Aveline , who have hasten to give them some good advice .
She guide the fan above the spot where the two army lay encamp before each other ready to give battle .
The fight be long and bloody , but in the end the Iron King be oblige to give way and surrender to the princess , who set him to keep King Souci 's sheep , first make him swear a solemn oath that he would treat them kindly .
Then the marriage take place , in the presence of Girouette , whom they have the great trouble to find , and who be much astonish to discover how much business have be get through in her absence .
Maiden Bright-eye From the Danish Once , upon a time there be a man and his wife who have two child , a boy and a girl .
The wife die , and the man marry again .
His new wife have an only daughter , who be both ugly and untidy , whereas her stepdaughter be a beautiful girl , and be know a Maiden Bright-eye .
Her stepmother be very cruel to her on this account ; she have always to do the hard work , and get very little to eat , and no attention pay to her ; but to her own daughter she be all that be good .
She be spar from all the hard of the housework , and have always the prettiest clothes to wear .
Maiden Bright-eye have also to watch the sheep , but of course it would never do to let her go idle and enjoy herself too much at this work , so she have to pull heather while she be out on the moor with them .
Her stepmother give her pancake to take with her for her dinner , but she have mixed the flour with ash , and make them just as bad a she could .
The little girl come out on the moor and begin to pull heather on the side of a little mound , but next minute a little fellow with a red cap on his head pop up out of the mound and say : ` Who 's that pull the roof off my house ? '
` Oh , it 's me , a poor little girl , ' say she ; ` my mother send me out here , and tell me to pull heather .
If you will be good to me I will give you a bit of my dinner . '
The little fellow be quite willing , and she give him the big share of her pancake .
They be not particularly good , but when one be hungry anything taste well .
After he have get them all eat he say to her : ` Now , I shall give you three wish , for you be a very nice little girl ; but I will choose the wish for you .
You be beautiful , and much more beautiful shall you be ; yes , so lovely that there will not be your like in the world .
The next wish shall be that every time you open your mouth a gold coin shall fall out of it , and your voice shall be like the most beautiful music .
The third wish shall be that you may be marry to the young king , and become the queen of the country .
At the same time I shall give you a cap , which you must carefully keep , for it can save you , if you ever be in danger of your life , if you just put it on your head .
Maiden Bright-eye thank the little bergman ever so often , and drive home her sheep in the evening .
By that time she have grow so beautiful that her people could scarcely recognise her .
Her stepmother ask her how it have come about that she have grow so beautiful .
She tell the whole story -- for she always tell the truth -- that a little man have come to her out on the moor and have give her all this beauty .
She do not tell , however , that she have give him a share of her dinner .
The stepmother think to herself , ` If one can become so beautiful by go out there , my own daughter shall also be send , for she can well stand be make a little prettier . '
Next morning she bake for her the fine cake , and dress her prettily to go out with the sheep .
But she be afraid to go away there without have a stick to defend herself with if anything should come near her .
She be not very much incline for pull the heather , a she never be in the habit of do any work , but she be only a minute or so at it when up come the same little fellow with the red cap , and say : ` Who 's that pull the roof off my house ? '
` What 's that to you ? '
say she .
` Well , if you will give me a bit of your dinner I wo n't do you any mischief , ' say he . '
I will give you something else in place of my dinner , ' say she . '
I can easily eat it myself ; but if you will have something you can have a whack of my stick , ' and with that she raise it in the air and strike the bergman over the head with it .
` What a wicked little girl you be ! '
say he ; ` but you shall be none the good of this .
I shall give you three wish , and choose them for you .
First , I shall say , `` Ugly be you , but you shall become so ugly that there will not be an ugly one on earth . ''
Next I shall wish that every time you open your mouth a big toad may fall out of it , and your voice shall be like the roaring of a bull .
In the third place I shall wish for you a violent death . '
The girl go home in the evening , and when her mother saw her she be as vexed a she could be , and with good reason , too ; but it be still bad when she saw the toad fall out of her mouth and hear her voice .
Now we must hear something about the stepson .
He have go out into the world to look about him , and take service in the king 's palace .
About this time he get permission to go home and see his sister , and when he saw how lovely and beautiful she be , he be so pleased and delight that when he come back to the king 's palace everyone there want to know what he be always so happy about .
He tell them that it be because he have such a lovely sister at home .
At last it come to the ear of the king what the brother say about his sister , and , besides that , the report of her beauty spread far and wide , so that the youth be summon before the king , who ask him if everything be true that be tell about the girl .
He say it be quite true , for he have see her beauty with his own eye , and have hear with his own ear how sweetly she could sing and what a lovely voice she have .
The king then take a great desire for her , and order her brother to go home and bring her back with him , for he trust no one good to accomplish that errand .
He get a ship , and everything else that he require , and sail home for his sister .
As soon a the stepmother hear what his errand be she at once say to herself , ` This will never come about if I can do anything to hinder it .
She must not be allow to come to such honour . '
She then get a dress make for her own daughter , like the fine robe for a queen , and she have a mask prepare and put upon her face , so that she look quite pretty , and give her strict order not to take it off until the king have promise to wed her .
The brother now set sail with his two sister , for the stepmother pretend that the ugly one want to see the other a bit on her way .
But when they get out to sea , and Maiden Bright-eye come up on deck , the sister do a her mother have instruct her -- she give her a push and make her fall into the water .
When the brother learn what have happen he be greatly distressed , and do not know what to do .
He could not bring himself to tell the truth about what have happen , nor do he expect that the king would believe it .
In the long run he decide to hold on his way , and let thing go a they like .
What he have expect happen -- the king receive his sister and wed her at once , but repent it after the first night , a he could scarcely put down his foot in the morning for all the toad that be about the room , and when he saw her real face he be so enraged against the brother that he have him thrown into a pit full of serpent .
He be so angry , not merely because he have be deceive , but because he could not get rid of the ugly wretch that be now tie to him for life .
Now we shall hear a little about Maiden Bright-eye When she fell into the water she be fortunate enough to get the bergman 's cap put on her head , for now she be in danger of her life , and she be at once transform into a duck .
The duck swim away after the ship , and come to the king 's palace on the next evening .
There it waddle up the drain , and so into the kitchen , where her little dog lay on the hearth-stone ; it could not bear to stay in the fine chamber along with the ugly sister , and have take refuge down here .
The duck hop up till it could talk to the dog .
` Good evening , ' it say .
` Thanks , Maiden Bright-eye , ' say the dog .
` Where be my brother ? '
` He be in the serpent-pit . '
` Where be my wicked sister ? '
` She be with the noble king . '
` Alas !
ala !
I be here this evening , and shall be for two evening yet , and then I shall never come again . '
When it have say this the duck waddle off again .
Several of the servant girl hear the conversation , and be greatly surprise at it , and think that it would be worth while to catch the bird next evening and see into the matter a little more closely .
They have hear it say that it would come again .
Next even it appear a it have say , and a great many be present to see it .
It come waddle in by the drain , and go up to the dog , which be lie on the hearth-stone .
` Good evening , ' it say .
` Thanks , Maiden Bright-eye , ' say the dog .
` Where be my brother ? '
` He be in the serpent-pit . '
` Where be my wicked sister ? '
` She be with the noble king . '
` Alas !
ala !
I be here this evening , and shall be for one evening yet , and then I shall never come again . '
After this it slip out , and no one could get hold of it .
But the king 's cook think to himself , ' I shall see if I ca n't get hold of you to-morrow even . '
On the third even the duck again come waddle in by the drain , and up to the dog on the hearth-stone .
` Good evening , ' it say .
` Thanks , Maiden Bright-eye , ' say the dog .
` Where be my brother ? '
` He be in the serpent-pit . '
` Where be my wicked sister ? '
` She be with the noble king . '
` Alas !
ala !
now I shall never come again . '
With this it slip out again , but in the meantime the cook have post himself at the out end of the drain with a net , which he throw over it a it come out .
In this way he catch it , and come in to the others with the most beautiful duck they have ever see -- with so many golden feather on it that everyone marvel .
No one , however , know what be to be do with it ; but after what they have hear they know that there be something uncommon about it , so they take good care of it .
At this time the brother in the serpent-pit dream that his right sister have come swimming to the king 's palace in the shape of a duck , and that she could not regain her own form until her beak be cut off .
He get this dream tell to some one , so that the king at last come to hear of it , and have him take up out of the pit and bring before him .
The king then ask him if he could produce to him his sister as beautiful a he have formerly describe her .
The brother say he could if they would bring him the duck and a knife .
Both of them be bring to him , and he say , ' I wonder how you would look if I be to cut the point off your beak . '
With this he cut a piece off the beak , and there come a voice which say , ` Oh , oh , you cut my little finger ! '
Next moment Maiden Bright-eye stand there , a lovely and beautiful a he have see her when he be home .
This be his sister now , he say ; and the whole story now come out of how the other have behave to her .
The wicked sister be put into a barrel with spike round it which be drag off by six wild horse , and so she come to her end . : But the king be delight with Maiden Bright-eye , and immediately make her his queen , while her brother become his prime minister .
The Merry Wives From the Danish There lay three house in a row , in one of which there live a tailor , in another a carpenter , and in the third a smith .
All three be marry , and their wife be very good friend .
They often talk about how stupid their husband be , but they could never agree a to which of them have the most stupid one ; each one stick up for her own husband , and maintain that it be he .
The three wife go to church together every Sunday , and have a regular good gossip on the way , and when they be come home from church they always turn into the tavern which lay by the wayside and drank half a pint together .
This be at the time when half a pint of brandy cost threepence , so that be just a penny from each of them .
But the brandy go up in price , and the taverner say that he must have fourpence for the half-pint .
They be greatly annoy at this , for there be only the three of them to share it , and none of them be willing to pay the extra penny .
As they go home from the church that day they decide to wager with each other a to whose husband be the most stupid , and the one who , on the following Sunday , should be judge to have play her husband the great trick should thereafter go free from pay , and each of the two others would give twopence for their Sunday 's half-pint .
Next day the tailor 's wife say to her husband , ' I have some girl come to-day to help to card my wool there be a great deal to do , and we must be very busy .
I be so annoyed that our watchdog be dead , for in the even the young fellow will come about to get fun with the girl , and they will get nothing do .
If we have only have a fierce watchdog he would have keep them away . '
` Yes , ' say the man , ` that would have be a good thing . '
` Listen , good man , ' say the wife , ` you must just be the watchdog yourself , and scare the fellow away from the house . '
The husband be not very sure about this , although otherwise he be always ready to give in to her .
` Oh yes , you will see it will work all right , ' say the wife .
And so towards even she get the tailor dress up in a shaggy fur coat , tie a black woollen cloth round his head , and chain him up beside the dog 's kennel . '
There he stand and bark and growl at everyone that move in his neighbourhood .
The neighbour wife know all about this , and be greatly amuse at it .
On the day after this the carpenter have be out at work , and come home quite merry ; but as soon a he enter the house his wife clap her hand together and cry , ` My dear , what make you look like that ?
You be ill . '
The carpenter know nothing about be ill ; he only think that he want something to eat , so he sit down at the table and begin his dinner .
His wife sit straight in front of him , with her hand fold , and shake her head , and look at him with an anxious air .
` You be get bad , my dear , ' she say ; ` you be quite pale now ; you have a serious illness about you ; I can see it by your look . '
The husband now begin to grow anxious , and think that perhaps he be not quite well .
` No , indeed , ' say she ; ` it 's high time that you be in bed . '
She then get him to lie down , and pile above him all the bedclothes she could find , and give him various medicine , while he grow bad and bad .
` You will never get over it , ' say she ; ' I be afraid you be go to die . '
` Do you think so ? '
say the carpenter ; ' I can well believe it , for I be indeed very poorly . '
In a little while she say again , ` Ah , now I must part with you .
Here come Death .
Now I must close your eye . '
And she do so .
The carpenter believe everything that his wife say , and so he believe now that he be dead , and lay still and let her do a she please .
She get her neighbour summon , and they help to lay him in the coffin -- it be one of those he himself have make ; but his wife have bore hole in it to let him get some air .
She make a soft bed under him , and put a coverlet over him , and she fold his hand over his breast ; but instead of a flower or a psalm-book , she give him a pint-bottle of brandy in his hand .
After he have lain for a little he take a little pull at this , and then another and another , and he think this do him good , and soon he be sleep sweetly , and dream that he be in heaven .
Meanwhile word have go round the village that the carpenter be dead , and be to be bury next day .
It be now the turn of the smith 's wife .
Her husband be lie sleep off the effect of a drinking bout , so she pull off all his clothes and make him black a coal from head to foot , and then let him sleep till far on in the day .
The funeral party have already meet at the carpenter 's , and march oft towards the church with the coffin , when the smith 's wife come rush in to her husband .
` Gracious , man , ' say she , ` you be lie there yet ?
You be sleep too long .
You know you be go to the funeral . '
The smith be quite confused ; he know nothing about any funeral .
` It 's our neighbour the carpenter , ' say his wife , ` who be to be bury to-day .
They be already half-way to church with him . '
` All right , ' say the smith , ` make haste to help me on with my black clothes . '
` What nonsense ! '
say his wife , ` you have them on already .
Be off with you now . '
The smith look down at his person and saw that he be a good deal blacker than he usually be , so he catch up his hat and run out after the funeral .
This be already close to the church , and the smith want to take part in carry the coffin , like a good neighbour .
So he run with all his might , and shout after them , ` Hey !
wait a little ; let me get a hold of him ! '
The people turn round and saw the black figure come , and think it be the devil himself , who want to get hold of the carpenter , so they throw down the coffin and take to their heel .
The lid sprang off the coffin with the shock , and the carpenter wake up and look out .
He remember the whole affair ; he know that he be dead and be go to be bury , and recognise the smith , he say to him , in a low voice , ` My good neighbour , if I have n't be dead already , I should have laugh myself to death now to see you come like this to my funeral . '
From that time forth the carpenter 's wife drink free of expense every Sunday , for the others have to admit that she have fool her husband the best .
King Lindorm From the Swedish .
There once live a king and a queen who rule over a very great kingdom .
They have large revenue , and live happily with each other ; but , a the year go past , the king 's heart become heavy , because the queen have no child .
She also sorrow greatly over it , because , although the king say nothing to her about this trouble , yet she could see that it vex him that they have no heir to the kingdom ; and she wish every day that she might have one .
One day a poor old woman come to the castle and ask to speak with the queen .
The royal servant answer that they could not let such a poor beggar-woman go in to their royal mistress .
They offer her a penny , and tell her to go away .
Then the woman desire them to tell the queen that there stand at the palace gate one who would help her secret sorrow .
This message be take to the queen , who give order to bring the old woman to her .
This be do , and the old woman say to her : ' I know your secret sorrow , O queen , and be come to help you in it .
You wish to have a son ; you shall have two if you follow my instruction . '
The queen be greatly surprised that the old woman know her secret wish so well , and promise to follow her advice .
` You must have a bath set in your room , O queen , ' say she , ` and fill with running water .
When you have bath in this you will find .
under the bath two red onion .
These you must carefully peel and eat , and in time your wish will be fulfil . '
The queen do a the poor woman tell her ; and after she have bath she find the two onion under the bath .
They be both alike in size and appearance .
When she saw these she know that the woman have be something more than she seem to be , and in her delight she eat up one of the onion , skin and all .
When she have do so she remember that the woman have tell her to peel them carefully before she eat them .
It be now too late for the one of them , but she peel the other and then eat it too .
In due time it happen a the woman have say ; but the first that the queen give birth to be a hideous lindorm , or serpent .
No one saw this but her waiting-woman , who throw it out of the window into the forest beside the castle .
The next that come into the world be the most beautiful little prince , and he be show to the king and queen , who know nothing about his brother the lindorm .
There be now joy in all the palace and over the whole country on account of the beautiful prince ; but no one know that the queen 's first-born be a lindorm , and lay in the wild forest .
Time pass with the king , the queen , and the young prince in all happiness and prosperity , until he be twenty year of his age .
Then his parent say to him that he should journey to another kingdom and seek for himself a bride , for they be begin to grow old , and would fain see their son marry .
before they be lay in their grave .
The prince obey , have his horse harness to his gilded chariot , and set out to woo his bride .
But when he come to the first cross-ways there lay a huge and terrible lindorm right across the road , so that his horse have to come to a standstill .
` Where be you drive to ? '
ask the lindorm with a hideous voice .
` That do not concern you , ' say the prince . '
I be the prince , and can drive where I please . '
` Turn back , ' say the lindorm . '
I know your errand , but you shall get no bride until I have get a mate and slept by her side . '
The prince turn home again , and tell the king and the queen what he have meet at the cross-roads ; but they think that he should try again on the following day , and see whether he could not get past it , so that he might seek a bride in another kingdom .
The prince do so , but get no further than the first cross-roads ; there lay the lindorm again , who stop him in the same way a before .
The same thing happen on the third day when the prince try to get past : the lindorm say , with a threatening voice , that before the prince could get a bride he himself must find a mate .
When the king and queen heard this for the third time they could think of no good plan than to invite the lindorm to the palace , and they should find him a mate .
They think that a lindorm would be quite well satisfied with anyone that they might give him , and so they would get some slave-woman to marry the monster .
The lindorm come to the palace and receive a bride of this kind , but in the morning she lay tear in piece .
So it happen every time that the king and queen compel any woman to be his bride .
The report of this soon spread over all the country .
Now it happen that there be a man who have marry a second time , and his wife heard of the lindorm with great delight .
Her husband have a daughter by his first wife who be more beautiful than all other maiden , and so gentle and good that she win the heart of all who know her .
His second wife , however , have also a grown-up daughter , who by herself would have be ugly and disagreeable enough , but beside her good and beautiful stepsister seem still more ugly and wicked , so that all turn from her with loathing .
The stepmother have long be annoy that her husband 's daughter be so much more beautiful than her own , and in her heart she conceive a bitter hatred for her stepdaughter .
When she now hear that there be in the king 's palace a lindorm which tore in piece all the woman that be marry to him , and demand a beautiful maiden for his bride , she go to the king , and say that her stepdaughter wish to wed the lindorm , so that the country 's only prince might travel and seek a bride .
At this the king be greatly delighted , and give order that the young girl should be bring to the palace .
When the messenger come to fetch her she be terribly frighten , for she know that it be her wicked stepmother who in this way be aim at her life .
She beg that she might be allow to spend another night in her father 's house .
This be grant her , and she go to her mother 's grave .
There she lament her hard fate in be give over to the lindorm , and earnestly pray her mother for counsel .
How long she lay there by the grave and wept one can not tell , but sure it be that she fell asleep and sleep until the sun rise .
Then she rise up from the grave , quite happy at heart , and begin to search about in the field .
There she find three nut , which she carefully put away in her pocket .
` When I come into very great danger I must break one of these , ' she say to herself .
Then she go home , and set out quite willingly with the king 's messenger .
When these arrive at the palace with the beautiful young maiden everyone pity her fate ; but she herself be of good courage , and ask the queen for another bridal chamber than the one the lindorm have have before .
She get this , and then she request them to put a pot full of strong lye on the fire and lay down three new scrub brush .
The queen give order that everything should be do a she desire ; and then the maiden dress herself in seven clean snow-white shirt , and hold her wedding with the lindorm .
When they be leave alone in the bridal chamber the lindorm , in a threatening voice , order her to undress herself .
` Undress yourself first ! '
say she .
` None of the others bid me do that , ' say he in surprise .
` But I bid you , ' say she .
Then the lindorm begin to writhe , and groan , and breathe heavily ; and after a little he have cast his outer skin , which lay on the floor , hideous to behold .
Then his bride take off one of her snow-white shirt , and cast it on the lindorm 's skin .
Again he order her to undress , and again she command him to do so first .
He have to obey , and with groaning and pain cast off one skin after another , and for each skin the maiden throw off one of her shirt , until there lay on the floor seven lindorm skin and six snow-white shirt ; the seventh she still have on .
The lindorm now lay before her a a formless , slimy mass , which she with all her might begin to scrub with the lye and new scrubbing brush .
When she have nearly wear out the last of these there stood before her the lovely youth in the world .
He thank her for have save him from his enchantment , and tell her that he be the king and queen 's eldest son , and heir to the kingdom .
Then he ask her whether she would keep the promise she have make to the lindorm , to share everything with him .
To this she be well content to answer ` Yes . '
Each time that the lindorm have hold his wed one of the king 's retainer be send next morning to open the door of the bridal chamber and see whether the bride be alive .
This next morning also he peep in at the door , but what he saw there surprised him so much that he shut the door in a hurry , and hasten to the king and queen , who be wait for his report .
He tell them of the wonderful sight he have see .
On the floor lay seven lindorm skin and six snow-white shirt , and beside these three worn-out scrub brush , while in the bed a beautiful youth be lie asleep beside the fair young maiden .
The king and queen marvel greatly what this could mean ; but just then the old woman who be speak of in the beginning of the story be again bring in to the queen .
She remind her how she have not follow her instruction , but have eat the first onion with all it skin , on which account her first-born have be a lindorm .
The waiting-woman be then summon , and admit that she have throw it out through the window into the forest .
The king and queen now send for their eldest son and his young bride .
They take them both in their arm , and ask him to tell about his sorrowful lot during the twenty year he have live in the forest a a hideous lindorm .
This he do , and then his parent have it proclaim over the whole country that he be their eldest son , and along with his spouse should inherit the country and kingdom after them .
Prince Lindorm and his beautiful wife now live in joy and prosperity for a time in the palace ; and when his father be lay in the grave , not long after this , he obtain the whole kingdom .
Soon afterwards his mother also depart from this world .
Now it happen that an enemy declare war against the young king ; and , a he foresee that it would be three year at the least before he could return to his country and his queen , he order all his servant who remain at home to guard her most carefully .
That they might be able to write to each other in confidence , he have two seal ring make , one for himself and one for his young queen , and issue an order that no one , under pain of death , be to open any letter that be seal with one of these .
Then he take farewell of his queen , and march out to war .
The queen 's wicked stepmother have hear with great grief that her beautiful stepdaughter have prosper so well that she have not only preserve her life , but have even become queen of the country .
She now plot continually how she might destroy her good fortune .
While King Lindorm be away at the war the wicked woman come to the queen , and speak fair to her , say that she have always foreseen that her stepdaughter be destine to be something great in the world , and that she have on this account secure that she should be the enchanted prince 's bride .
The queen , who do not imagine that any person could be so deceitful , bid her stepmother welcome , and keep her beside her .
Soon after this the queen have two child , the pretty boy that anyone could see .
When she have write a letter to the king to tell him of this her stepmother ask leave to comb her hair for her , a her own mother use to do .
The queen give her permission , and the stepmother comb her hair until she fell asleep .
Then she take the seal ring off her neck , and exchange the letter for another , in which she have write that the queen have give birth to two whelp .
When the king receive .
this letter he be greatly distressed , but he remember how he himself have live for twenty year a a lindorm , and have be free from the spell by his young queen .
He therefore write back to his most trusted retainer that the queen and her two whelp should be take care of while he be away .
The stepmother , however , take this letter as well , and write a new one , in which the king order that the queen and the two little prince should be burn at the stake .
This she also seal with the queen 's seal , which be in all respect like the king 's .
The retainer be greatly shocked and grieve at the king 's order , for which he could discover no reason ; but , a he have not the heart to destroy three innocent being , he have a great fire kindle , and in this he burn a sheep and two lamb , so a to make people believe that he have carry out the king 's command .
The stepmother have make these know to the people , add that the queen be a wicked sorceress .
The faithful servant , however , tell the queen that it be the king 's command that during the year he be absent in the war she should keep herself conceal in the castle , so that no one but himself should see her and the little prince .
The queen obey , and no one knew but that both she and her child have be burn .
But when the time come near for King Lindorm to return home from the war the old retainer grow frightened because he have not obey his order .
He therefore go to the queen , and tell her everything , at the same time show her the king 's letter contain the command to burn her and the prince .
He then beg her to leave the palace before the king return .
The queen now take her two little son , and wander out into the wild forest .
They walk all day without end a human habitation , and become very tired .
The queen then catch sight of a man who carry some venison .
He seem very poor and wretched , but the queen be glad to see a human be , and ask him whether he know where she and her little child could get a house over their head for the night .
The man answer that he have a little hut in the forest , and that she could rest there ; but he also say that he be one who live entirely apart from men , and own no more than the hut , a horse , and a dog , and support himself by hunt .
The queen follow him to the hut and rest there overnight with her child , and when she awake in the morning the man have already go out hunting .
The queen then begin to put the room in order and prepare food , so that when the man come home he find everything neat and tidy , and this seem to give him some pleasure .
He speak but little , however , and all that he say about himself be that his name be Peter .
Later in the day he ride out into the forest , and the queen thought that he look very unhappy .
While he be away she look about her in the hut a little more closely , and find a tub full of shirt stain with blood , lie among water .
She be surprise at this , but think that the man would get the blood on his shirt when he be carry home venison .
She wash the shirt , and hang them up to dry , and say nothing to Peter about the matter .
After some time have pass she notice that every day he come rid home from the forest he take off a blood-stained shirt and put on a clean one .
She then saw that it be something else than the blood of the deer that stain his shirt , so one day she take courage and ask him about it .
At first he refuse to tell her , but she then relate to him her own story , and how she have succeed in deliver the lindorm .
He then tell her that he have formerly live a wild life , and have finally enter into a write contract * with the Evil Spirit .
Before this contract have expire he have repent and turn from his evil way , and withdrawn himself to this solitude .
The Evil One have then lose all power to take him , but so long a he have the contract he could compel him to meet him in the forest each day at a certain time , where the evil spirit then scourge him till he bleed .
Next day , when the time come for the man to ride into the forest , the queen ask him to stay at home and look after the prince , and she would go to meet the evil spirit in his place .
The man be amaze , and say that this would not only cost her her life , but would also bring upon him a great misfortune than the one he be already under .
She bid him be of good courage , look to see that she have the three nut which she have find beside her mother 's grave , mount her horse , and ride out into the forest .
When she have ride for some time the evil spirit come forth and say , ` Here come Peter 's horse and Peter 's hound ; but Peter himself be not with them . '
Then at a distance she hear a terrible voice demand to know what she want . '
I have come to get Peter 's contract , ' say she .
At this there arise a terrible uproar among the evil spirit , and the bad voice among them all say , ` Ride home and tell Peter that when he come to-morrow he shall get twice as many stroke a usual . '
The queen then take one of her nut and crack it , and turn her horse about .
At this spark of fire fly out of all the tree , and the evil spirit howl a if they be be scourge back to their abode .
Next day at the same time the queen again ride out into the forest ; but on this occasion the spirit do not dare to come so near her .
They would not , however , give up the contract , but threaten both her and the man .
Then she crack her second nut , and all the forest behind her seem to be in fire and flame , and the evil spirit howl even bad than on the previous day ; but the contract they would not give up .
The queen have only one nut leave now , but even that she be ready to give up in order to deliver the man .
This time she crack the nut as soon a she come near the place where the spirit appear , and what then happen to them she could not see , but amid wild scream and howl the contract be hand to her at the end of a long branch .
The queen rode happy home to the hut , and happy still be the man , who have be sit there in great anxiety , for now he be free from all the power of the evil spirit .
Meanwhile King Lindorm have come home from the war , and the first question he ask when he enter the palace be about the queen and the whelp .
The attendant be surprise : they know of no whelp .
The queen have have two beautiful prince ; but the king have send order that all these be to be burn .
The king grow pale with sorrow and anger , and order them to summon his trusted retainer , to whom he have send the instruction that the queen and the whelp be to be carefully look after .
The retainer , however , show him the letter in which there be write that the queen and her child be to be burn , and everyone then understand that some great treachery have be enact .
When the king 's trusted retainer saw his master 's deep sorrow he confess to him that he have spar the life of the queen and the prince , and have only burn a sheep and two lamb , and have keep the queen and her child hide in the palace for three year , but have send her out into the wild forest just when the king be expect home .
When the king heard this his sorrow be lessen , and he say that he would wander out into the forest and search for his wife and child .
If he find them he would return to his palace ; but if he do not find them he would never see it again , and in that case the faithful retainer who have save the life of the queen and the prince should be king in his stead .
The king then go forth alone into the wild forest , and wander there the whole day without see a single human be .
So it go with him the second day also , but on the third day he come by roundabout way to the little hut .
He go in there , and ask for leave to rest himself for a little on the bench .
The queen and the prince be there , but she be poorly clad and so sorrowful that the king do not recognise her , neither do he think for a moment that the two child , who be dress only in rough skin , be his own son .
He lay down on the bench , and , tire a he be , he soon fell asleep .
The bench be a narrow one , and a he sleep his arm fell down and hung by the side of it .
` My son , go and lift your father 's arm up on the bench , ' say the queen to one of the prince , for she easily know the king again , although she be afraid to make herself know to him .
The boy go and take the king 's arm , but , be only a child , he do not lift it up very gently on to the bench .
The king woke at this , think at first that he have fall into a den of robber , but he decide to keep quiet and pretend that he be asleep until he should find out what kind of folk be in the house .
He lay still for a little , and , a no one move in the room , he again let his arm glide down off the bench .
Then he hear a woman 's voice say , ` My son , go you and lift your father 's arm up on the bench , but do n't do it so rough ! y a your brother do . '
Then he felt a pair of little hand softly clasp his arm ; he open his eye , and saw his queen and her child .
He spring up and catch all three in his arm , and afterwards take them , along with the man and his horse and his hound , back to the palace with great joy .
The most unbounded rejoicing reign there then , as well a over the whole kingdom , but the wicked stepmother be burn .
King Lindorm live long and happily with his queen , and there be some who say that if they be not dead now they be still live to this day .
The Jackal , the Dove , and the Panther Contes populaires de Bassoutos .
Recueillis et traduits par E. Jacottet .
Paris : Leroux , Editeur .
There be once a dove who build a nice soft nest a a home for her three little one .
She be very proud of their beauty , and perhaps talk about them to her neighbour more than she need have do , till at last everybody for mile round know where the three pretty baby dove in the whole country-side be to be find .
One day a jackal who be prowl about in search of a dinner come by chance to the foot of the rock where the dove 's nest be hide away , and he suddenly bethink himself that if he could get nothing well he might manage to make a mouthful of one of the young dove .
So he shout as loud a he could , ` Ohe , ohe , mother dove . '
And the dove reply , tremble with fear , ` What do you want , sir ? '
` One of your child , ' say he ; ` and if you do n't throw it to me I will eat up you and the others a well . '
Now , the dove be nearly driven distract at the jackal 's word ; but , in order to save the life of the other two , she do at last throw the little one out of the nest .
The jackal ate it up , and go home to sleep .
Meanwhile the mother dove sit on the edge of her nest , cry bitterly , when a heron , who be fly slowly past the rock , be fill with pity for her , and stop to ask , ` What be the matter , you poor dive ? '
And the dove answer , ' A jackal come by , and ask me to give him one of my little one , and say that if I refuse he would jump on my nest and eat u all up . '
But the heron reply , ` You should not have believe him .
He could never have jump so high .
He only deceive you because he want something for supper . '
And with these word the heron fly off .
He have hardly get out of sight when again the jackal come creep slowly round the foot of the rock .
And when he saw the dove he cry out a second time , ` Ohe , ohe , mother dove !
give me one of your little one , or I will jump on your nest and eat you all up . '
This time the dove know good , and she answer boldly , ` Indeed , I shall do nothing of the sort , ' though her heart beat wildly with fear when she saw the jackal prepare for a spring .
However , he only cut himself against the rock , and think he have well stick to threat , so he start again with his old cry , ` Mother dive , mother dive !
be quick and give me one of your little one , or I will eat you all up . '
But the mother dive only answer a before , ` Indeed , I shall do nothing of the sort , for I know we be safely out of your reach . '
The jackal felt it be quite hopeless to get what he want , and ask , ` Tell me , mother dive , how have you suddenly become so wise ? '
` It be the heron who tell me , ' reply she .
` And which way do he go ? '
say the jackal .
` Down there among the reed .
You can see him if you look , ' say the dove .
Then the jackal nod good-bye , and go quickly after the heron .
He soon come up to the great bird , who be stand on a stone on the edge of the river watching for a nice fat fish .
` Tell me , heron , ' say he , ` when the wind blow from that quarter , to which side do you turn ? '
` And which side do you turn to ? '
ask the heron .
The jackal answer , ' I always turn to this side . '
` Then that be the side I turn to , ' remark the heron .
` And when the rain come from that quarter , which side do you turn to ? '
And the heron reply , ` And which side do you turn to ? '
` Oh , I always turn to this side , ' say the jackal .
` Then that be the side I turn to , ' say the heron .
` And when the rain come straight down , what do you do ? '
` What do you do yourself ? '
ask the heron . '
I do this , ' answer the jackal . '
I cover my head with my paw . '
` Then that be what I do , ' say the heron . '
I cover my head with my wing , ' and a he speak he lift his large wing and spread them completely over his head .
With one bound the jackal have seize him by the neck , and begin to shake him .
` Oh , have pity , have pity ! '
cry the heron . '
I never do you any harm . '
` You tell the dove how to get the good of me , and I be go to eat you for it . '
` But if you will let me go , ' entreat the heron , ' I will show you the place where the panther have her lair . '
` Then you have good be quick about it , ' say the jackal , hold tight on to the heron until he have point out the panther 's den .
` Now you may go , my friend , for there be plenty of food here for me . '
So the jackal come up to the panther , and ask politely , ` Panther , would you like me to look after your child while you be out hunt ? ' '
I should be very much oblige , ' say the panther ; ` but be sure you take care of them .
They always cry all the time that I be away . '
So say she trot off , and the jackal march into the cave , where he find ten little panther , and instantly eat one up .
By-and-bye the panther return from hunting , and say to him , ` Jackal , bring out my little one for their supper . '
The jackal fetch them out one by one till he have bring out nine , and he take the last one and bring it out again , so the whole ten seem to be there , and the panther be quite satisfied .
Next day she go again to the chase , and the jackal eat up another little panther , so now there be only eight .
In the evening , when she come back , the panther say , ` Jackal , bring out my little one ! '
And the jackal bring out first one and then another , and the last one he bring out three time , so that the whole ten seem to be there .
The following day the same thing happen , and the next and the next and the next , till at length there be not even one leave , and the rest of the day the jackal busy himself with dig a large hole at the back of the den .
That night , when the panther return from hunting , she say to him a usual , ` Jackal , bring out my little one . '
But the jackal reply : ` Bring out your little one , indeed !
Why , you know as well a I do that you have eat them all up . '
Of course the panther have not the least idea what the jackal mean by this , and only repeat , ` Jackal , bring out my child . '
As she get no answer she enter the cave , but find no jackal , for he have crawl through the hole he have make and escape .
And , what be bad , she do not find the little one either .
Now the panther be not go to let the jackal get off like that , and set off at a trot to catch him .
The jackal , however , have get a good start , and he reach a place where a swarm of bee deposit their honey in the cleft of a rock .
Then he stand still and wait till the panther come up to him : ` Jackal , where be my little one ? '
she ask .
And the jackal answer : ` They be up there .
It be where I keep school . '
The panther look about , and then inquire , ` But where ?
I see nothing of them . '
` Come a little this way , ' say the jackal , ` and you will hear how beautifully they sing . '
So the panther draw near the cleft of the rock .
` Do n't you hear them ? '
say the jackal ; ` they be in there , ' and slip away while the panther be listen to the song of the child .
She be still stand in the same place when a baboon go by .
` What be you do there , panther ? ' '
I be listen to my child sing .
It be here that the jackal keep his school . '
Then the baboon seize a stick , and poke it in the cleft of the rock , exclaim , ` Well , then , I should like to see your child ! '
The bee fly out in a huge swarm , and make furiously for the panther , whom they attack on all side , while the baboon soon climb up out of the way , cry , a he perch himself on the branch of a tree , ' I wish you joy of your child ! '
while from afar the jackal 's voice be hear exclaiming : ` Sting , her well !
do n't let her go ! '
The panther gallop away a if she be mad , and fling herself into the near lake , but every time she raise her head , the bee sting her afresh so at last the poor beast be drown altogether .
The Little Hare Contes populaires de Bassoutos .
Recueillis et traduits par E. Jacottet .
Paris : Leroux , Editeur .
A long , long way off , in a land where water be very scarce , there live a man and his wife and several child .
One day the wife say to her husband , ' I be pin to have the liver of a nyamatsane for my dinner .
If you love me as much a you say you do , you will go out and hunt for a nyamatsane , and will kill it and get it liver .
If not , I shall know that your love be not worth have . '
` Bake some bread , ' be all her husband answer , ` then take the crust and put it in this little bag . '
The wife do a she be tell , and when she have finish she say to her husband , ` The bag be all ready and quite full . '
` Very well , ' say he , ` and now good-bye ; I be go after the nyamatsane . '
But the nyamatsane be not so easy to find a the woman have hop .
The husband walk on and on and on without ever see one , and every now and then he felt so hungry that he be oblige to eat one of the crust of bread out of his bag .
At last , when he be ready to drop from fatigue , he find himself on the edge of a great marsh , which border on one side the country of the nyamatsanes .
But there be no more nyamatsanes here than anywhere else .
They have all go on a hunting expedition , a their larder be empty , and the only person leave at home be their grandmother , who be so feeble she never go out of the house .
Our friend look on this a a great piece of luck , and make haste to kill her before the others return , and to take out her liver , after which he dress himself in her skin as well a he could .
He have scarcely do this when he hear the noise of the nyamatsanes come back to their grandmother , for they be very fond of her , and never stay away from her long than they could help .
They rush clatter into the hut , exclaim , ` We smell human flesh !
Some man be here , ' and begin to look about for him ; but they only saw their old grandmother , who answer , in a trembling voice , ` No , my child , no !
What should any man be do here ? '
The nyamatsanes pay no attention to her , and begin to open all the cupboard , and peep under all the bed , cry out all the while , ' A man be here !
a man be here ! '
but they could find nobody , and at length , tire out with their long day 's hunting , they curl themselves up and fell asleep .
Next morning they wake up quite refresh , and make ready to start on another expedition ; but a they do not feel happy about their grandmother they say to her , ` Grandmother , wo n't you come to-day and feed with u ? '
And they lead their grandmother outside , and all of them begin hungrily to eat pebble .
Our friend pretend to do the same , but in reality he slip the stone into his pouch , and swallow the crust of bread instead .
However , a the nyamatsanes do not see this they have no idea that he be not really their grandmother .
When they have eat a great many pebble they think they have do enough for that day , and all go home together and curl themselves up to sleep .
Next morning when they wake they say , ` Let u go and amuse ourselves by jump over the ditch , ' and every time they clear it with a bound .
Then they beg their grandmother to jump over it too , end with a tremendous effort she manage to spring right over to the other side .
After this they have no doubt at all of it be their true grandmother , and go off to their hunting , leave our friend at home in the hut .
As soon a they have go out of sight our hero make haste to take the liver from the place where he have hid it , throw off the skin of the old nyamatsane , and run away as hard a he could , only stop to pick up a very brilliant and polished little stone , which he put in his bag by the side of the liver .
Towards even the nyamatsanes come back to the hut full of anxiety to know how their grandmother have get on during their absence .
The first thing they saw on enter the door be her skin lying on the floor , and then they know that they have be deceive , and they say to each other , ` So we be right , after all , and it be human flesh we smelt . '
Then they stoop down to find trace of the man 's footstep , and when they have get them instantly set out in hot pursuit .
Meanwhile our friend have journey many mile , and be begin to feel quite safe and comfortable , when , happen to look round , he saw in the distance a thick cloud of dust move rapidly .
His heart stand still within him , and he say to himself , ' I be lose .
It be the nyamatsanes , and they will tear me in piece , ' and indeed the cloud of dust be draw near with amazing quickness , and the nyamatsanes almost felt a if they be already devour him .
Then a a last hope the man take the little stone that he have pick up out of his bag and flung it on the ground .
The moment it touch the soil it become a huge rock , whose steep side be smooth a glass , and on the top of it our hero hastily seat himself .
It be in vain that the nyamatsanes try to climb up and reach him ; they slide down again much fast than they have go up ; and by sunset they be quite wear out , and fell asleep at the foot of the rock .
No sooner have the nyamatsanes tumble off to sleep than the man steal softly down and flee away as fast a his leg would carry him , and by the time his enemy be awake he be a very long way off .
They spring quickly to their foot and begin to sniff the soil round the rock , in order to discover trace of his footstep , and they gallop after him with terrific speed .
The chase continue for several day and night ; several time the nyamatsanes almost reach him , and each time he be save by his little pebble .
Between his fright and his hurry he be almost dead of exhaustion when he reach his own village , where the nyamatsanes could not follow him , because of their enemy the dog , which swarm over all the road .
So they return home .
Then our friend stagger into his own hut and call to his wife : ` Ichou !
how tired I be !
Quick , give me something to drink .
Then go and get fuel and light a fire . '
So she do what she be bid , and then her husband take the nyamatsane 's liver from his pouch and say to her , ` There , I have bring you what you want , and now you know that I love you truly . '
And the wife answer , ` It be well .
Now go and take out the child , so that I may remain alone in the hut , ' and a she speak she lift down an old stone pot and put on the liver to cook .
Her husband watch her for a moment , and then say , ` Be sure you eat it all yourself .
Do not give a scrap to any of the child , but eat every morsel up . '
So the woman take the liver and eat it all herself .
Directly the last mouthful have disappear she be seize with such violent thirst that she catch up a great pot full of water and drink it at a single draught .
Then , have no more in the house , she run in next door and say , ` Neighbour , give me , I pray you , something to drink . '
The neighbour give her a large vessel quite full , and the woman drink it off at a single draught , and hold it out for more .
But the neighbour push her away , say , ` No , I shall have none leave for my child . '
So the woman go into another house , and drink all the water she could find ; but the more she drink the more thirsty she become .
She wander in this manner through the whole village till she have drink every water-pot dry .
Then she rush off to the near spring , and swallow that , and when she have finish all the spring and well about she drink up first the river and then a lake .
But by this time she have drink so much that she could not rise from the ground .
In the evening , when it be time for the animal to have their drink before go to bed , they find the lake quite dry , and they have to make up their mind to be thirsty till the water flow again and the stream be full .
Even then , for some time , the lake be very dirty , and the lion , a king of the beast , command that no one should drink till it be quite clear again .
But the little hare , who be fond of have his own way , and be very thirsty besides , steal quietly off when all the rest be asleep in their den , and creep down to the margin of the lake and drink his fill .
Then he smear the dirty water all over the rabbit 's face and paw , so that it might look a if it be he who have be disobey Big Lion 's order .
The next day , as soon a it be light , Big Lion march straight for the lake , and all the other beast follow him .
He saw at once that the water have be trouble again , and be very angry .
` Who have be drink my water ? '
say he ; and the little hare give a jump , and , point to the rabbit , he answer , ` Look there !
it must be he !
Why , there be mud all over his face and paw ! '
The rabbit , frighten out of his wit , try to deny the fact , exclaim , ` Oh , no , indeed I never do ; ' but Big Lion would not listen , and command them to cane him with a birch rod .
Now the little hare be very much please with his cleverness in cause the rabbit to be beat instead of himself , and go about boasting of it .
At last one of the other animal overheard him , and call out , ` Little hare , little hare !
what be that you be say ? '
But the little hare hastily reply , ' I only ask you to pass me my stick . '
An hour or two later , think that no one be near him , he say to himself again , ` It be really I who drink up the water , but I make them think it be the rabbit . '
But one of the beast whose ear be long than the rest catch the word , and go to tell Big Lion about it .
Do you hear what the little hare be say ? '
So Big Lion send for the little hare , and ask him what he mean by talk like that .
The little hare saw that there be no use try to hide it , so he answer pertly , ` It be I who drink the water , but I make them think it be the rabbit . '
Then he turn and run as fast a he could , with all the other beast pursue him .
They be almost up to him when he dash into a very narrow cleft in the rock , much too small for them to follow ; but in his hurry he have leave one of his long ear stick out , which they just manage to seize .
But pull as hard a they might they could not drag him out of the hole , and at last they give it up and leave him , with his ear very much torn and scratch .
When the last tail be out of sight the little hare creep cautiously out , and the first person he meet be the rabbit .
He have plenty of impudence , so he put a bold face on the matter , and say , ` Well , my good rabbit , you see I have have a beating as well a you . '
But the rabbit be still sore and sulky , and he do not care to talk , so he answer , coldly , ` You have treat me very badly .
It be really you who drink that water , and you accuse me of have do it . '
` Oh , my good rabbit , never mind that !
I 've get such a wonderful secret to tell you !
Do you know what to do so a to escape death ? '
` No , I do n't . '
` Well , we must begin by dig a hole . '
So they dig a hole , and then the little hare say , ` The next thing be to make a fire in the hole , ' and they set to work to collect wood , and light quite a large fire .
When it be burn brightly the little hare say to the rabbit , ` Rabbit , my friend , throw me into the fire , and when you hear my fur crackling , and I call `` Itchi , Itchi , '' then be quick and pull me out . '
The rabbit do a he be tell , and throw the little hare into the fire ; but no sooner do the little hare begin to feel the heat of the flame than he take some green bay leave he have pluck for the purpose and hold them in the middle of the fire , where they crackle and make a great noise .
Then he call loudly ` Itchi , Itchi !
Rabbit , my friend , be quick , be quick !
Do n't you hear how my skin be crackle ? '
And the rabbit come in a great hurry and pull him out .
Then the little hare say , ` Now it be your turn ! '
and he throw the rabbit in the fire .
The moment the rabbit felt the flame he cry out ` Itchi , Itchi , I be burn ; pull me out quick , my friend ! '
But the little hare only laugh , and say , ` No , you may stay there !
It be your own fault .
Why be you such a fool a to let yourself be throw in ?
Did n't you know that fire burn ? '
And in a very few minute nothing be leave of the rabbit but a few bone .
When the fire be quite out the little hare go and pick up one of these bone , and make a flute out of it , and sing this song : Pii , pii , O flute that I love , Pii , pii , rabbit be but little boy .
Pii , pii , he would have burn me if he could ; Pii , pii , but I burn him , and he crackle finely .
When he get tired of go through the world sing this the little hare go back to his friend and enter the service of Big Lion .
One day he say to his master , ` Grandfather , shall I show you a splendid way to kill game ? '
` What be it ? '
ask Big Lion .
` We must dig a ditch , and then you must lie in it and pretend to be dead . '
Big Lion do a he be tell , and when he have lain down the little hare get up on a wall blow a trumpet and shout -- Pii , pii , all you animals come and see , Big Lion be dead , and now peace will be .
Directly they hear this they all come running .
The little hare receive them and say , ` Pass on , this way to the lion . '
So they all enter into the Animal Kingdom .
Last of all come the monkey with her baby on her back .
She approach the ditch , and take a blade of grass and tickle Big Lion 's nose , and his nostril move in spite of his effort to keep them still .
Then the monkey cry , ` Come , my baby , climb on my back and let u go .
What sort of a dead body be it that can still feel when it be tickle ? '
And she and her baby go away in a fright .
Then the little hare say to the other beast , ` Now , shut the gate of the Animal Kingdom . '
And it be shut , and great stone be roll against it .
When everything be tight close the little hare turn to Big Lion and say ` Now ! '
and Big Lion bound out of the ditch and tear the other animal in piece .
But Big Lion keep all the choice bit for himself , and only give away the little scrap that he do not care about eating ; and the little hare grow very angry , and determine to have his revenge .
He have long ago find out that Big Lion be very easily take in ; so he lay his plan accordingly .
He say to him , a if the idea have just come into his head , ` Grandfather , let u build a hut , ' and Big Lion consent .
And when they have drive the stake into the ground , and have make the wall of the hut , the little hare tell Big Lion to climb upon the top while he stay inside .
When he be ready he call out , ` Now , grandfather , begin , ' and Big Lion pass his rod through the reed with which the roof be always cover in that country .
The little hare take it and cry , ` Now it be my turn to pierce them , ' and a he speak he pass the rod back through the reed and give Big Lion 's tail a sharp poke .
` What be prick me so ? '
ask Big Lion .
` Oh , just a little branch stick out .
I be go to break it , ' answer the little hare ; but of course he have do it on purpose , a he want to fix Big Lion 's tail so firmly to the hut that he would not be able to move .
In a little while he give another prick , and Big Lion call again , ` What be prick me so ? '
This time the little hare say to himself , ` He will find out what I be at .
I must try some other plan .
` So he call out , ` Grandfather , you have good put your tongue here , so that the branch shall not touch you . '
Big Lion do a he be bid , and the little hare tie it tightly to the stake of the wall .
Then he go outside and shout , ` Grandfather , you can come down now , ' and Big Lion try , but he could not move an inch .
Then the little hare begin quietly to eat Big Lion 's dinner right before his eye , and pay no attention at all to his growl of rage .
When he have quite do he climb up on the hut , and , blow his flute , he chant ` Pii , pii , fall rain and hail , ' and directly the sky be full of cloud , the thunder roar , and huge hailstone whiten the roof of the hut .
The little hare , who have take refuge within , call out again , ` Big Lion , be quick and come down and dine with me . '
But there be no answer , not even a growl , for the hailstone have kill Big Lion .
The little hare enjoy himself vastly for some time , live comfortably in the hut , with plenty of food to eat and no trouble at all in get it .
But one day a great wind arose , and fling down the Big Lion 's half-dried skin from the roof of the hut .
The little hare bound with terror at the noise , for he think Big Lion must have come to life again ; but on discover what have happen he set about clean the skin , and prop the mouth open with stick so that he could get through .
So , dress in Big Lion 's skin , the little hare start on his travel .
The first visit he pay be to the hyaena , who tremble at the sight of him , and whisper to each other , ` How shall we escape from this terrible beast ? '
Meanwhile the little hare do not trouble himself about them , but just ask where the king of the hyaena live , and make himself quite at home there .
Every morning each hyaena think to himself , ` To-day he be certain to eat me ; ' but several day go by , and they be all still alive .
At length , one evening , the little hare , look round for something to amuse him , notice a great pot full of boil water , so he stroll up to one of the hyaena and say , ` Go and get in . '
The hyaena dare not disobey , and in a few minute be scald to death .
Then the little hare go the round of the village , say to every hyaena he meet , ` Go and get into the boiling water , ' so that in a little while there be hardly a male left in the village .
One day all the hyaena that remain alive go out very early into the field , leave only one little daughter at home .
The little hare , think he be all alone , come into the enclosure , and , wish to feel what it be like to be a hare again , throw off Big Lion 's skin , and begin to jump and dance , sing -- I be just the little hare , the little hare , the little hare ; I be just the little hare who kill the great hyaena .
The little hyaena gaze at him in surprise , say to herself , ` What !
be it really this tiny beast who put to death all our best people ? '
when suddenly a gust of wind rustle the reed that surround the enclosure , and the little hare , in a fright , hastily spring back into Big Lion 's skin .
When the hyaena return to their home the little hyaena say to her father : ` Father , our tribe have very nearly be sweep away , and all this have be the work of a tiny creature dress in the lion 's skin . '
But her father answer , ` Oh , my dear child , you do n't know what you be talk about . '
She reply , ` Yes , father , it be quite true .
I saw it with my own eye . '
The father do not know what to think , and tell one of his friend , who say , ` To-morrow we have well keep watch ourselves . '
And the next day they hide themselves and wait till the little hare come out of the royal hut .
He walk gaily towards the enclosure , throw off , Big Lion 's skin , and sang and dance a before -- I be just the little hare , the little hare , the little hare , I be just the little hare , who kill the great hyaena .
That night the two hyaena tell all the rest , say , ` Do you know that we have allow ourselves to be trample on by a wretched creature with nothing of the lion about him but his skin ? '
When supper be be cook that even , before they all go to bed , the little hare , look fierce and terrible in Big Lion 's skin , say a usual to one of the hyaena ` Go and get into the boiling water . '
But the hyaena never stir .
There be silence for a moment ; then a hyaena take a stone , and fling it with all his force against the lion 's skin .
The little hare jump out through the mouth with a single spring , and flee away like lightning , all the hyaena in full pursuit utter great cry .
As he turn a corner the little hare cut off both his ear , so that they should not know him , and pretend to be work at a grindstone which lay there .
The hyaena soon come up to him and say , ` Tell me , friend , have you see the little hare go by ? '
` No , I have see no one . '
` Where can he be ? '
say the hyaena one to another .
` Of course , this creature be quite different , and not at all like the little hare . '
Then they go on their way , but , find no trace of the little hare , they return sadly to their village , say , ` To think we should have allow ourselves to be sweep away by a wretched creature like that ! '
The Sparrow with the Slit Tongue From the Japanische Marchen und Sagen .
A long long time ago , an old couple dwelt in the very heart of a high mountain .
They live together in peace and harmony , although they be very different in character , the man be good-natured and honest , and the wife be greedy and quarrelsome when anyone come her way that she could possibly quarrel with .
One day the old man be sit in front of his cottage , a he be very fond of do , when he saw fly towards him a little sparrow , follow by a big black raven .
The poor little thing be very much frighten and cry out a it fly , and the great bird come behind it terribly fast , flap it wing and crane it beak , for it be hungry and want some dinner .
But a they draw near the old man , he jump up , and beat back the raven , which mount , with hoarse scream of disappointment , into the sky , and the little bird , free from it enemy , nestle into the old man 's hand , and he carry it into the house .
He stroke it feather , and tell it not to be afraid , for it be quite safe ; but a he still felt it heart beating , he put it into a cage , where it soon pluck up courage to twitter and hop about .
The old man be fond of all creature , and every morning he use to open the cage door , and the sparrow fly happily about until it catch sight of a cat or a rat or some other fierce beast , when it would instantly return to the cage , know that there no harm could come to it .
The woman , who be always on the look-out for something to grumble at , grow very jealous of her husband 's affection for the bird , and would gladly have do it some harm have she dare .
At last , one morning her opportunity come .
Her husband have go to the town some mile away down the mountain , and would not be back for several hour , but before he leave he do not forget to open the door of the cage .
The sparrow hop about a usual , twitter happily , and think no evil , and all the while the woman 's brow become blacker and blacker , and at length her fury break out .
She throw her broom at the bird , who be perch on a bracket high up on the wall .
The broom miss the bird , but knock down and break the vase on the bracket , which do not soothe the angry woman .
Then she chase it from place to place , and at last have it safe between her finger , almost as frightened a on the day that it have make it first entrance into the hut .
By this time the woman be more furious than ever .
If she have dare , she would have kill the sparrow then and there , but a it be she only venture to slit it tongue .
The bird struggle and pip , but there be no one to hear it , and then , cry out loud with the pain , it fly from the house and be lose in the depth of the forest .
By-and-bye the old man come back , and at once begin to ask for his pet .
His wife , who be still in a very bad temper , tell him the whole story , and scold him roundly for be so silly a to make such a fuss over a bird .
But the old man , who be much troubled , declare she be a bad , hard-hearted woman , to have behave so to a poor harmless bird ; then he leave the house , and go into the forest to seek for his pet .
He walk many hour , whistle and call for it , but it never come , and he go sadly home , resolve to be out with the dawn and never to rest till he have bring the wanderer back .
Day after day he search and call ; and evening after even he return in despair .
At length he give up hope , and make up his mind that he should see his little friend no more .
One hot summer morning , the old man be walk slowly under the cool shadow of the big tree , and without think where he be go , he enter a bamboo thicket .
As the bamboo become thinner , he find himself opposite to a beautiful garden , in the centre of which stand a tiny spick-and-span little house , and out of the house come a lovely maiden , who unlatched the gate and invite him in the most hospitable way to enter and rest .
` Oh , my dear old friend , ' she exclaim , ` how glad I be you have find me at last !
I be your little sparrow , whose life you save , and whom you take such care of . '
The old man seize her hand eagerly , but no time be give him to ask any question , for the maiden drew him into the house , and set food before him , and wait on him herself .
While he be eat , the damsel and her maid take their lute , and sang and dance to him , and altogether the hour pass so swiftly that the old man never saw that darkness have come , or remember the scolding he would get from his wife for return home so late .
Thus , in dance and singing , and talk over the day when the maiden be a sparrow hopping in and out of her cage , the night pass away , and when the first ray of sun break through the hedge of bamboo , the old man start up , thank his hostess for her friendly welcome , and prepare to say farewell . '
I be not go to let you depart like that , ' say she ; ' I have a present for you , which you must take a a sign of my gratitude . '
And a she speak , her servant bring in two chest , one of them very small , the other large and heavy .
` Now choose which of them you will carry with you . '
So the old man choose the small chest , and hide it under his cloak , and set out on his homeward way .
But a he draw near the house his heart sink a little , for he know what a fury his wife would be in , and how she would abuse him for his absence .
And it be even bad than he expect .
However , long experience have teach him to let her storm and say nothing , so he light his pipe and wait till she be tire out .
The woman be still rag , and do not seem likely to stop , when her husband , who by this time have forget all about her , draw out the chest from under his cloak , and open it .
Oh , what a blaze meet his eye !
gold and precious stone be heap up to the very lid , and lay dance in he sunlight .
At the sight of these wonder even the scold tongue cease , and the woman approach , and take the stone in her hand , set greedily aside those that be the large and most costly .
Then her voice soften , and she beg him quite politely to tell her where he have spend his evening , and how he have come by these wonderful rich .
So he tell her the whole story , and she listen with amazement , till he come to the choice which have be give him between the two chest .
At this her tongue break loose again , a she abuse him for his folly in take the little one , and she never rest till her husband have describe the exact way which lead to the sparrow-princess 's house .
When she have get it into her head , she put on her best clothes and set out at once .
But in her blind haste she often miss the path , and she wander for several hour before she at length reach the little house .
She walk boldly up to the door and enter the room a if the whole place belong to her , and quite frighten the poor girl , who be startle at the sight of her old enemy .
However , she conceal her feeling as well a she could , and bid the intruder welcome , place before her food and wine , hop that when she have eat and drink she might take her leave .
But nothing of the sort .
` You will not let me go without a little present ? '
say the greedy wife , a she saw no sign of one be offer her .
` Of course not , ' reply the girl , and at her order two chest be bring in , a they have be before .
The old woman instantly seize the big , and stagger under the weight of it , disappear into the forest , hardly wait even to say good-bye .
It be a long way to her own house , and the chest seem to grow heavy at every step .
Sometimes she felt a if it would be impossible for her to get on at all , but her greed give her strength , and at last she arrive at her own door .
She sink down on the threshold , overcome with weariness , but in a moment be on her foot again , fumble with the lock of the chest .
But by this time night have come , and there be no light in the house , and the woman be in too much hurry to get to her treasure , to go and look for one .
At length , however , the lock give way , and the lid fly open , when , O horror !
instead of gold and jewel , she saw before her serpent with glitter eye and forky tongue .
And they twin themselves about her and darted poison into her vein , and she die , and no man regret her .
The Story of Ciccu From Sicilianische Mahrchen .
Once upon a time there live a man who have three son .
The eldest be call Peppe , the second Alfin , and the young Ciccu .
They be all very poor , and at last thing get so bad that they really have not enough to eat .
So the father call his son , and say to them , ' My dear boy , I be too old to work any more , and there be nothing left for me but to beg in the street . '
` No , no ! '
exclaim his son ; ` that you shall never do .
Rather , if it must be , would we do it ourselves .
But we have think of a good plan than that . '
` What be it ? '
ask the father .
` Well , we will take you in the forest , where you shall cut wood , and then we will bind it up in bundle and sell it in the town . '
So their father let them do a they say , and they all make their way into the forest ; and a the old man be weak from lack of food his son take it in turn to carry him on their back .
Then they build a little hut where they might take shelter , and set to work .
Every morning early the father cut his stick , and the son bind them in bundle , and carry them to the town , bring back the food the old man so much need .
Some month pass in this way , and then the father suddenly fell ill , and know that the time have come when he must die .
He bid his son fetch a lawyer , so that he might make his will , and when the man arrive he explain his wish . '
I have , ' say he , ' a little house in the village , and over it grow a fig-tree .
The house I leave to my son , who be to live in it together ; the fig-tree I divide a follow .
To my son Peppe I leave the branch .
To my son Alfin I leave the trunk .
To my son Ciccu I leave the fruit .
Besides the house and tree , I have an old coverlet , which I leave to my eldest son .
And an old purse , which I leave to my second son .
And a horn , which I leave to my young son .
And now farewell . '
Thus speaking , he lay himself down , and die quietly .
The brother weep bitterly for their father , whom they love , and when they have bury him they begin to talk over their future life .
` What shall we do now ? '
say they .
` Shall we live in the wood , or go back to the village ? '
And they make up their mind to stay where they be and continue to earn their living by sell firewood .
One very hot evening , after they have be work hard all day , they fell asleep under a tree in front of the hut .
And a they sleep there come by three fairy , who stop to look at them .
` What fine fellows ! '
say one .
` Let u give them a present . '
` Yes , what shall it be ? '
ask another .
` This youth have a coverlet over him , ' say the first fairy .
` When he wrap it round him , and wish himself in any place , he will find himself there in an instant . '
Then say the second fairy : ` This youth have a purse in his hand .
I will promise that it shall always give him as much gold a he ask for . '
Last come the turn of the third fairy .
` This one have a horn slung round him .
When he blow at the small end the sea shall be cover with ship .
And if he blow at the wide end they shall all be sink in the wave . '
So they vanish , without know that Ciccu have be awake and hear all they say .
The next day , when they be all cut wood , he say to his brother , ` That old coverlet and the purse be no use to you ; I wish you would give them to me .
I have a fancy for them , for the sake of old time . '
Now Peppe and Alfin be very fond of Ciccu , and never refuse him anything , so they let him have the coverlet and the purse without a word .
When he have get them safely Ciccu go on , ` Dear brother , I be tire of the forest .
I want to live in the town , and work at some trade . ' '
O Ciccu !
stay with u , ' they cry .
` We be very happy here ; and who know how we shall get on elsewhere ? '
` We can always try , ' answered Ciccu ; ` and if time be bad we can come back here and take up wood-cutting . '
So say he pick up his bundle of stick , and his brother do the same .
But when they reach the town they find that the market be overstock with firewood , and they do not sell enough to buy themselves a dinner , far less to get any food to carry home .
They be wonder sadly what they should do when Ciccu say , ` Come with me to the inn and let u have something to eat . '
They be so hungry by this time that they do not care much whether they pay for it or not , so they follow Ciccu , who give his order to the host .
` Bring u three dish , the nice that you have , and a good bottle of wine . '
` Ciccu !
Ciccu ! '
whisper his brother , horrify at this extravagance , ` be you mad ?
How do you ever mean to pay for it ? '
` Let me alone , ' reply Ciccu ; ' I know what I be about . '
And when they have finish their dinner Ciccu tell the others to go on , and he would wait to pay the bill .
The brother hurry on , without need to be tell twice , ` for , ' think they , ` he have no money , and of course there will be a row . '
When they be out of sight Ciccu ask the landlord how much he owe , and then say to his purse , ` Dear purse , give me , I pray you , six florin , ' and instantly six florin be in the purse .
Then he pay the bill and join his brother .
` How do you manage ? '
they ask .
` Never you mind , ' answer he . '
I have pay every penny , ' and no more would he say .
But the other two be very uneasy , for they felt sure something must be wrong , and the sooner they part company with Ciccu the good .
Ciccu understand what they be think , and , draw forty gold piece from his pocket , he hold out twenty to each , say , ` Take these and turn them to good account .
I be go away to seek my own fortune . '
Then he embrace them , and strike down another road .
He wander on for many day , till at length he come to the town where the king have his court .
The first thing Ciccu do be to order himself some fine clothes , and then buy a grand house , just opposite the palace .
Next he lock his door , and order a shower of gold to cover the staircase , and when this be do , the door be flung wide open , and everyone come and peep at the shin golden stair .
Lastly the rumour of these wonder reach the ear of the king , who leave his palace to behold these splendour with his own eye .
And Ciccu receive him with all respect , and show him over the house .
When the king go home he tell such story of what he have see that his wife and daughter declare that they must go and see them too .
So the king send to ask Ciccu 's leave , and Ciccu answer that if the queen and the princess would be please to do him such great honour he would show them anything they wish .
Now the princess be as beautiful a the sun , and when Ciccu look upon her his heart go out to her , and he long to have her to wife .
The princess saw what be pass in his mind , and how she could make use of it to satisfy her curiosity a to the golden stair ; so she praise him and flatter him , and put cunning question , till at length Ciccu 's head be quite turn , and he tell her the whole story of the fairy and their gift .
Then she beg him to lend her the purse for a few day , so that she could have one make like it , and so great be the love he have for her that he give it to her at once .
The princess return to the palace , take with her the purse , which she have not the small intention of ever restore to Ciccu .
Very soon Ciccu have spend all the money he have by him , and could get no more without the help of his purse .
Of course , he go at once to the king 's daughter , and ask her if she have do with it , but she put him off with some excuse , and tell him to come back next day .
The next day it be the same thing , and the next , till a great rage fill Ciccu 's heart instead of the love that have be there .
And when night come he take in his hand a thick stick , wrap himself in the coverlet , and wish himself in the chamber of the princess .
The princess be asleep , but Ciccu seize her arm and pull her out of bed , and beat her till she give back the purse .
Then he take up the coverlet , and wish he be safe in his own house .
No sooner have he go than the princess hasten to her father and complain of her suffering .
Then the king rise up in a fury , and command Ciccu to be bring before him .
` You richly deserve death , ' say he , ` but I will allow you to live if you will instantly hand over to me the coverlet , the purse , and the horn . '
What could Ciccu do ?
Life be sweet , and he be in the power of the king ; so he give up silently his ill-gotten good , and be as poor a when he be a boy .
While he be wonder how he be to live it suddenly come into his mind that this be the season for the fig to ripen , and he say to himself , ' I will go and see if the tree have bear well . '
So he set off home , where his brother still live , and find them live very uncomfortably , for they have spend all their money , and do not know how to make any more .
However , he be pleased to see that the fig-tree look in splendid condition , and be full of fruit .
He run and fetch a basket , and be just feel the fig , to make sure which of them be ripe , when his brother Peppe call to him , ` Stop !
The fig of course be yours , but the branch they grow on be mine , and I forbid you to touch them . '
Ciccu do not answer , but set a ladder against the tree , so that he could reach the topmost branch , and have his foot already on the first rung when he hear the voice of his brother Alfin : ` Stop !
the trunk belong to me , and I forbid you to touch it ! '
Then they begin to quarrel violently , and there seem no chance that they would ever cease , till one of them say , ` Let u go before a judge . '
The others agree , and when they have find a man whom they could trust Ciccu tell him the whole story .
` This be my verdict , ' say the judge .
` The fig in truth belong to you , but you can not pluck them without touch both the trunk and the branch .
Therefore you must give your first basketful to your brother Peppe , a the price of his leave to put your ladder against the tree ; and the second basketful to your brother Alfin , for leave to shake his bough .
The rest you can keep for yourself . '
And the brother be content , and return home , say one to the other , ` We will each of u send a basket of fig to the king .
Perhaps he will give u something in return , and if he do we will divide it faithfully between u . '
So the best fig be carefully pack in a basket , and Peppe set out with it to the castle .
On the road he meet a little old man who stop and say to him , ` What have you get there , my fine fellow ? '
` What be that to you ? '
be the answer ; ` mind your own business . '
But the old man only repeat his question , and Peppe , to get rid of him , exclaim in anger , ` Dirt . '
` Good , ' reply the old man ; ` dirt you have say , and dirt let it be . '
Peppe only toss his head and go on his way till he get to the castle , where he knock at the door . '
I have a basket of lovely fig for the king , ' he say to the servant who open it , ` if his majesty will be graciously pleased to accept them with my humble duty . '
The king love fig , and order Peppe to be admit to his presence , and a silver dish to be bring on which to put the fig .
When Peppe uncover his basket sure enough a layer of beautiful purple fig meet the king 's eye , but underneath there be nothing but dirt .
` How dare you play me such a trick ? '
shriek the king in a rage .
` Take him away , and give him fifty lash . '
This be do , and Peppe return home , sore and angry , but determine to say nothing about his adventure .
And when his brother ask him what have happen he only answer , ` When we have all three be I will tell you . '
A few day after this more fig be ready for pluck , and Alfin in his turn set out for the palace .
He have not go far down the road before he meet the old man , who ask him what he have in his basket .
` Horns , ' answer Alfin , shortly .
` Good , ' reply the old man ; ` horn you have say , and horn let it be . '
When Alfin reach the castle he knock at the door and say to the servant : ` Here be a basket of lovely fig , if his majesty will be good enough to accept them with my humble duty . '
The king command that Alfin should be admit to his presence , and a silver dish to be bring on which to lay the fig .
When the basket be uncover some beautiful purple fig lay on the top , but underneath there be nothing but horn .
Then the king be beside himself with passion , and scream out , ` Is this a plot to mock me ?
Take him away , and give him a hundred and fifty lash ! '
So Alfin go sadly home , but would not tell anything about his adventure , only say grimly , ` Now it be Ciccu 's turn . '
Ciccu have to wait a little before he gather the last fig on the tree , and these be not nearly so good a the first set .
However , he pluck them , a they have agree , and set out for the king 's palace .
The old man be still on the road , and he come up and say to Ciccu , ` What have you get in that basket ? '
` Figs for the king , ' answer he .
` Let me have a peep , ' and Ciccu lift the lid .
` Oh , do give me one , I be so fond of fig , ' beg the little man . '
I be afraid if I do that the hole will show , ' reply Ciccu , but a he be very good-natured he give him one .
The old man eat it greedily and keep the stalk in his hand , and then ask for another and another and another till he have eat half the basketful .
` But there be not enough leave to take to the king , ' murmur Ciccu .
` Do n't be anxious , ' say the old man , throw the stalk back into the basket ; ` just go on and carry the basket to the castle , and it will bring you luck . '
Ciccu do not much like it ; however he go on his way , and with a tremble heart ring the castle bell .
` Here be some lovely fig for the king , ' say he , ` if his majesty will graciously accept them with my humble duty . '
When the king be tell that there be another man with a basket of fig he cry out , ` Oh , have him in , have him in !
I suppose it be a wager ! '
But Ciccu uncover the basket , and there lay a pile of beautiful ripe fig .
And the king be delight , and empty them himself on the silver dish , and give five florin to Ciccu , and offer besides to take him into his service .
Ciccu accept gratefully , but say he must first return home and give the five florin to his brother .
When he get home Peppe speak : ` Now we will see what we each have get from the king .
I myself receive from him fifty lash . '
` And I a hundred and fifty , ' add Alfin .
` And I five florin and some sweet , which you can divide between you , for the king have take me into his service . '
Then Ciccu go back to the Court and serve the king , and the king love him .
The other two brother hear that Ciccu have become quite an important person , and they grow envious , and think how they could put him to shame .
At last they come to the king and say to him , ' O king !
your palace be beautiful indeed , but to be worthy of you it lack one thing -- the sword of the Man-eater . '
` How can I get it ? '
ask the king .
` Oh , Ciccu can get it for you ; ask him . '
So the king sent for Ciccu and say to him , ` Ciccu , you must at any price manage to get the sword of the Man-eater . '
Ciccu be very much surprise at this sudden command , and he walk thoughtfully away to the stable and begin to stroke his favourite horse , say to himself , ` Ah , my pet , we must bid each other good-bye , for the king have send me away to get the sword of the Maneater . '
Now this horse be not like other horse , for it be a talk horse , and know a great deal about many thing , so it answer , ` Fear nothing , and do a I tell you .
Beg the king to give you fifty gold piece and leave to ride me , and the rest will be easy . '
Ciccu believe what the horse say , and pray the king to grant him what he ask .
Then the two friend set out , but the horse choose what roads he please , and direct Ciccu in everything .
It take them many day ' hard rid before they reach the country where the Man-eater live , and then the horse tell Ciccu to stop a group of old woman who be come chatter through the wood , and offer them each a shill if they would collect a number of mosquito and tie them up in a bag .
When the bag be full Ciccu put it on his shoulder and stole into the house of the Man-eater -LRB- who have go to look for his dinner -RRB- and let them all out in his bedroom .
He himself hide carefully under the bed and wait .
The Man-eater come in late , very tired with his long walk , and fling himself on the bed , place his sword with it shin blade by his side .
Scarcely have he lie down than the mosquito begin to buzz about and bite him , and he roll from side to side try to catch them , which he never could do , though they always seem to be close to his nose .
He be so busy over the mosquito that he do not hear Ciccu steal softly out , or see him catch up the sword .
But the horse heard and stand ready at the door , and a Ciccu come fly down the stair and jump on his back he speed away like the wind , and never stop till they arrive at the king 's palace .
The king have suffer much pain in his absence , think that if the Man-eater ate Ciccu , it would be all his fault .
And he be so overjoyed to have him safe that he almost forget the sword which he have send him to bring .
But the two brother do not love Ciccu any good because he have succeed when they hop he would have fail , and one day they speak to the king .
` It be all very well for Ciccu to have get possession of the sword , but it would have be far more to your majesty 's honour if he have capture the Man-eater himself . '
The king think upon these word , and at last he say to Ciccu , ` Ciccu , I shall never rest until you bring me back the Man-eater himself .
You may have any help you like , but somehow or other you must manage to do it . '
Ciccu felt very much cast , down at these word , and go to the stable to ask advice of his friend the horse .
` Fear nothing , ' say the horse ; ` just say you want me and fifty piece of gold . '
Ciccu do a he be bid , and the two set out together .
When they reach the country of the Man-eater , Ciccu make all the church bell toll and a proclamation to be make .
` Ciccu , the servant of the king , be dead . '
The Man-eater soon hear what everyone be say , and be glad in his heart , for he think , ` Well , it be good news that the thief who steal my sword be dead . '
But Ciccu buy an axe and a saw , and cut down a pine tree in the near wood , and begin to hew it into plank .
` What be you do in my wood ? '
ask the Maneater , come up .
` Noble lord , ' answer Ciccu , ' I be make a coffin for the body of Ciccu , who be dead . '
` Do n't be in a hurry , ' answer the Man-eater , who of course do not know whom he be talk to , ` and perhaps I can help you ; ' and they set to work sawing and fitting , and very soon the coffin be finish .
Then Ciccu scratch his ear thoughtfully , and cry , ` Idiot that I be !
I never take any measure .
How be I to know if it be big enough ?
But now I come to think of it , Ciccu be about your size .
I wonder if you would be so good a just to put yourself in the coffin , and see if there be enough room . '
` Oh , delighted ! '
say the Man-eater , and lay himself at full length in the coffin .
Ciccu clap on the lid , put a strong cord round it , tie it fast on his horse , and ride back to the king .
And when the king saw that he really have bring back the Man-eater , he command a huge iron chest to be bring , and lock the coffin up inside .
Just about this time the queen die , and soon after the king think he should like to marry again .
He seek everywhere , but he could not hear of any princess that take his fancy .
Then the two envious brother come to him and say , ' O king !
there be but one woman that be worthy of be your wife , and that be she who be the fair in the whole world . '
` But where can I find her ? '
ask the king ` Oh , Ciccu will know , and he will bring her to you . '
Now the king have get so use to depend on Ciccu , that he really believe he could do everything .
So he send for him and say , ` Ciccu , unless within eight day you bring me the fair in the whole world , I will have you hew into a thousand piece . '
This mission seem to Ciccu a hundred time bad than either of the others , and with tear in his eye he take his way to the stable .
` Cheer up , ' laugh the horse ; ` tell the king you must have some bread and honey , and a purse of gold , and leave the rest to me . '
Ciccu do a he be bid , and they start at a gallop .
After they have ride some way , they saw a swarm of bee lie on the ground , so hungry and weak that they be unable to fly .
` Get down , and give the poor thing some honey , ' say the horse , and Ciccu dismount .
By-and-bye they come to a stream , on the bank of which be a fish , flap feebly about in it effort to reach the water .
` Jump down , and throw the fish into the water ; he will be useful to u , ' and Ciccu do so .
Farther along the hillside they saw an eagle whose leg be catch in a snare .
` Go and free that eagle from the snare ; he will be useful to u ; ' and in a moment the eagle be soar up into the sky .
At length they come to the castle where the fair in the world live with her parent .
Then say the horse , ` You must get down and sit upon that stone , for I must enter the castle alone .
Directly you see me come tearing by with the princess on my back , jump up behind , and hold her tight , so that she do not escape you .
If you fail to do this , we be both lost . '
Ciccu seat himself on the stone , and the horse go on to the courtyard of the castle , where he begin to trot round in a graceful and elegant manner .
Soon a crowd collect first to watch him and then to pat him , and the king and queen and princess come with the rest .
The eye of the fair in the world brighten a she look , and she spring on the horse 's saddle , cry , ` Oh , I really must ride him a little ! '
But the horse make one bound forward , and the princess be force to hold tight by his mane , lest she should fall off .
And a they dash past the stone where Ciccu be wait for them , he swing himself up and hold her round the waist .
As he put his arm round her waist , the fair in the world unwound the veil from her head and cast it to the ground , and then she draw a ring from her finger and fling it into the stream .
But she say nothing , and they ride on fast , fast .
The king of Ciccu 's country be watch for them from the top of a tower , and when he saw in the distance a cloud of dust , he run down to the step so a to be ready to receive them .
Bowing low before the fair in the world , he speak : ` Noble lady , will you do me the honour to become my wife ? '
But she answer , ` That can only be when Ciccu bring me the veil that I let fall on my way here . '
And the king turn to Ciccu and say , ` Ciccu , if you do not find the veil at once , you shall lose your head . '
Ciccu , who by this time have hop for a little peace , felt his heart sink at this fresh errand , and he go into the stable to complain to the faithful horse .
` It will be all right , ' answer the horse when he have hear his tale ; ` just take enough food for the day for both of u , and then get on my back . '
They ride back all the way they have come till they reach the place where they have find the eagle caught in the snare ; then the horse bade Ciccu to call three time on the king of the bird , and when he reply , to beg him to fetch the veil which the fairest in the world have let fall .
` Wait a moment , ' answer a voice that seem to come from somewhere very high up indeed .
` An eagle be play with it just now , but he will be here with it in an instant ; ' and a few minute after there be a sound of wing , and an eagle come fluttering towards them with the veil in his beak .
And Ciccu saw it be the very same eagle that he have free from the snare .
So he take the veil and ride back to the king .
Now the king be enchant to see him so soon , and take the veil from Ciccu and fling it over the princess , cry , ` Here be the veil you ask for , so I claim you for my wife . '
` Not so fast , ' answer she . '
I can never be your wife till Ciccu put on my finger the ring I throw into the stream .
Ciccu , who be stand by expect something of the sort , bow his head when he hear her word , and go straight to the horse .
` Mount at once , ' say the horse ; ` this time it be very simple , ' and he carry Ciccu to the bank of the little stream .
` Now , call three time on the emperor of the fish , and beg him to restore you the ring that the princess drop .
Ciccu do a the horse tell him , and a voice be hear in answer that seem to come from a very long way off .
` What be your will ? '
it ask ; and Ciccu reply that he have be command to bring back the ring that the princess have fling away , a she ride past . '
A fish be play with it just now , ' reply the voice ; ` however , you shall have it without delay . '
And sure enough , very soon a little fish be see rise to the surface with the lost ring in his mouth .
And Ciccu know him to be the fish that he have save from death , and he take the ring and ride back with it to the king .
` That be not enough , ' exclaim the princess when she saw the ring ; ` before we can be man and wife , the oven must be heat for three day and three night , and Ciccu must jump in . '
And the king forget how Ciccu have serve him , and desire him to do a the princess have say .
This time Ciccu felt that no escape be possible , and he go to the horse and lay his hand on his neck .
` Now it be indeed good-bye , and there be no help to be get even from you , ' and he tell him what fate await him .
But the horse say , ` Oh , never lose heart , but jump on my back , and make me go till the foam fly in fleck all about me .
Then get down , and scrape off the foam with a knife .
This you must rub all over you , and when you be quite cover , you may suffer yourself to be cast into the oven , for the fire will not hurt you , nor anything else . '
And Ciccu do exactly a the horse bid him , and go back to the king , and before the eye of the fair in the world he spring into the oven .
And when the fair in the world saw what he have do , love enter into her heart , and she say to the king , ` One thing more : before I can be your wife , you must jump into the oven a Ciccu have do . '
` Willingly , ' reply the king , stoop over the oven .
But on the brink he pause a moment and call to Ciccu , ` Tell me , Ciccu , how do you manage to prevent the fire burning you ? '
Now Ciccu could not forgive his master , whom he have serve so faithfully , for send him to his death without a thought , so he answer , ' I rub myself over with fat , and I be not even sing . '
When he hear these word , the king , whose head be full of the princess , never stop to inquire if they could be true , and smear himself over with fat , and sprang into the oven .
And in a moment the fire catch him , and he be burn up .
Then the fair in the world hold out her hand to Ciccu and smile , say , ` Now we will be man and wife . '
So Ciccu marry the fair in the world , and become king of the country .
Don Giovanni De La Fortuna Sicilianische Mahrchen There be once a man whose name be Don Giovanni de la Fortuna , and he live in a beautiful house that his father have build , and spend a great deal of money .
Indeed , he spend so much that very soon there be none left , and Don Giovanni , instead of be a rich man with everything he could wish for , be force to put on the dress of a pilgrim , and to wander from place to place beg his bread .
One day he be walk down a broad road when he be stop by a handsome man he have never see before , who , little a Don Giovanni know it , be the devil himself .
` Would you like to be rich , ' ask the devil , ` and to lead a pleasant life ? '
` Yes , of course I should , ' reply the Don .
` Well , here be a purse ; take it and say to it , `` Dear purse , give me some money , '' and you will get as much a you can want But the charm will only work if you promise to remain three year , three month , and three day without wash and without comb and without shave your beard or change your clothes .
If you do all this faithfully , when the time be up you shall keep the purse for yourself , and I will let you off any other condition . '
Now Don Giovanni be a man who never trouble his head about the future .
He do not once think how very uncomfortable he should be all those three year , but only that he should be able , by mean of the purse , to have all sort of thing he have be oblige to do without ; so he joyfully put the purse in his pocket and go on his way .
He soon begin to ask for money for the mere pleasure of it , and there be always as much a he need .
For a little while he even forget to notice how dirty he be get , but this do not last long , for his hair become mat with dirt and hung over his eye , and his pilgrim 's dress be a mass of horrible rag and tatter .
He be in this state when , one morning , he happen to be pass a fine palace ; and , a the sun be shin bright and warm , he sit down on the step and try to shake off some of the dust which he have pick up on the road .
But in a few minute a maid saw him , and say to her master , ' I pray you , sir , to drive away that beggar who be sit on the step , or he will fill the whole house with his dirt . '
So the master go out and call from some distance off , for he be really afraid to go near the man , ` You filthy beggar , leave my house at once ! '
` You need not be so rude , ' say Don Giovanni ; ' I be not a beggar , and if I choose I could force you and your wife to leave your house . '
` What be that you can do ? '
laugh the gentleman .
` Will you sell me your house ? '
ask Don Giovanni . '
I will buy it from you on the spot . '
` Oh , the dirty creature be quite mad ! '
think the gentleman . '
I shall just accept his offer for a joke . '
And aloud he say : ' All right ; follow me , and we will go to a lawyer and get him to make a contract . '
And Don Giovanni follow him , and an agreement be draw up by which the house be to be sell at once , and a large sum of money pay down in eight day .
Then the Don go to an inn , where he hire two room , and , stand in one of them , say to his purse , ' Dear purse , fill this room with gold ; ' and when the eight day be up it be so full you could not have put in another sovereign .
When the owner of the house come to take away his money Don Giovanni lead him into the room and say : ` There , just pocket what you want . '
The gentleman star with open mouth at the astonishing sight ; but he have give his word to sell the house , so he take his money , a he be tell , and go away with his wife to look for some place to live in .
And Don Giovanni leave the inn and dwelt in the beautiful room , where his rag and dirt look sadly out of place .
And every day these get bad and bad .
By-and-bye the fame of his rich reach the ear of the king , and , a he himself be always in need of money , he send for Don Giovanni , a he wish to borrow a large sum .
Don Giovanni readily agree to lend him what he want , and send next day a huge waggon laden with sack of gold .
` Who can he be ? '
think the king to himself .
` Why , he be much rich than I ! '
The king take as much a he have need of ; then order the rest to be return to Don Giovanni , who refuse to receive it , say , ` Tell his majesty I be much hurt at his proposal .
I shall certainly not take back that handful of gold , and , if he decline to accept it , keep it yourself . '
The servant depart and deliver the message , and the king wonder more than ever how anyone could be so rich .
At last he speak to the queen : ` Dear wife , this man have do me a great service , and have , besides , behave like a gentleman in not allow me to send back the money .
I wish to give him the hand of our eldest daughter . '
The queen be quite pleased at this idea , and again messenger be send to Don Giovanni , offer him the hand of the eldest princess .
` His majesty be too good , ' he reply . '
I can only humbly accept the honour . '
The messenger take back this answer , but a second time return with the request that Don Giovanni would present them with his picture , so that they might know what sort of a person to expect .
But when it come , and the princess saw the horrible figure , she scream out , ` What !
marry this dirty beggar ?
Never , never ! '
` Ah , child , ' answer the king , ` how could I ever guess that the rich Don Giovanni would ever look like that ?
But I have pass my royal word , and I can not break it , so there be no help for you . '
` No , father ; you may cut off my head , if you choose , but marry that horrible beggar -- I never will ! '
And the queen take her part , and reproach her husband bitterly for wish his daughter to marry a creature like that .
Then the young daughter speak : ` Dear father , do not look so sad .
As you have give your word , I will marry Don Giovanni . '
The king fell on her neck , and thank her and kiss her , but the queen and the elder girl have nothing for her but laugh and jeer .
So it be settle , and then the king bid one of his lord go to Don Giovanni and ask him when the wedding day be to be , so that the princess might make ready .
` Let it be in two month , ' answer Don Giovanni , for the time be nearly up that the devil have fix , and he want a whole month to himself to wash off the dirt of the past three year .
The very minute that the compact with the devil have come to an end his beard be shave , his hair be cut , and his rag be burn , and day and night he lay in a bath of clear warm water .
At length he felt he be clean again , and he put on splendid clothes , and hire a beautiful ship , and arrive in state at the king 's palace .
The whole of the royal family come down to the ship to receive him , and the whole way the queen and the elder princess tease the sister about the dirty husband she be go to have .
But when they saw how handsome he really be their heart be fill with envy and anger , so that their eye be blind , and they fell over into the sea and be drown .
And the young daughter rejoice in the good luck that have come to her , and they have a splendid wedding when the day of mourn for her mother and sister be end .
Soon after the old king die , and Don Giovanni become king .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Red_Fairy_Book.txt.out
THE TWELVE DANCING PRINCESSES I ONCE upon a time there live in the village of Montignies-sur-Roc a little cow-boy , without either father or mother .
His real name be Michael , but he be always call the Star Gazer , because when he drive his cow over the common to seek for pasture , he go along with his head in the air , gap at nothing .
As he have a white skin , blue eye , and hair that curl all over his head , the village girl use to cry after him , ` Well , Star Gazer , what be you do ? '
and Michael would answer , ` Oh , nothing , ' and go on his way without even turn to look at them .
The fact be he think them very ugly , with their sun-burnt neck , their great red hand , their coarse petticoat and their wooden shoe .
He have hear that somewhere in the world there be girl whose neck be white and whose hand be small , who be always dress in the fine silk and lace , and be call princess , and while his companion round the fire saw nothing in the flame but common everyday fancy , he dream that he have the happiness to marry a princess .
II One morning about the middle of August , just at mid-day when the sun be hot , Michael eat his dinner of a piece of dry bread , and go to sleep under an oak .
And while he sleep he dream that there appear before him a beautiful lady , dress in a robe of cloth of gold , who say to him : ` Go to the castle of Beloeil , and there you shall marry a princess . '
That even the little cow-boy , who have be think a great deal about the advice of the lady in the golden dress , tell his dream to the farm people .
But , a be natural , they only laugh at the Star Gazer .
The next day at the same hour he go to sleep again under the same tree .
The lady appear to him a second time , and say : ` Go to the castle of Beloeil , and you shall marry a princess . '
In the evening Michael tell his friend that he have dream the same dream again , but they only laugh at him more than before .
` Never mind , ' he think to himself ; ` if the lady appear to me a third time , I will do a she tell me . '
The following day , to the great astonishment of all the village , about two o'clock in the afternoon a voice be hear singing : ` Raleo , raleo , How the cattle go ! '
It be the little cow-boy drive his herd back to the byre .
The farmer begin to scold him furiously , but he answer quietly , ' I be go away , ' make his clothes into a bundle , say good-bye to all his friend , and boldly set out to seek his fortune .
There be great excitement through all the village , and on the top of the hill the people stand hold their side with laughing , a they watch the Star Gazer trudge bravely along the valley with his bundle at the end of his stick .
It be enough to make anyone laugh , certainly .
III It be well know for full twenty mile round that there live in the castle of Beloeil twelve princess of wonderful beauty , and as proud a they be beautiful , and who be besides so very sensitive and of such truly royal blood , that they would have felt at once the presence of a pea in their bed , even if the mattress have be lay over it .
It be whisper about that they lead exactly the life that princesses ought to lead , sleep far into the morning , and never get up till mid-day .
They have twelve bed all in the same room , but what be very extraordinary be the fact that though they be lock in by triple bolt , every morning their satin shoe be find worn into hole .
When they be ask what they have be do all night , they always answer that they have be asleep ; and , indeed , no noise be ever hear in the room , yet the shoe could not wear themselves out alone !
At last the Duke of Beloeil order the trumpet to be sound , and a proclamation to be make that whoever could discover how his daughter wear out their shoe should choose one of them for his wife .
On hear the proclamation a number of prince arrive at the castle to try their luck .
They watch all night behind the open door of the princess , but when the morning come they have all disappear , and no one could tell what have become of them .
IV When he reach the castle , Michael go straight to the gardener and offer his service .
Now it happen that the garden boy have just be send away , and though the Star Gazer do not look very sturdy , the gardener agree to take him , a he think that his pretty face and golden curl would please the princess .
The first thing he be tell be that when the princess get up he be to present each one with a bouquet , and Michael think that if he have nothing more unpleasant to do than that he should get on very well .
Accordingly he place himself behind the door of the princess ' room , with the twelve bouquet in a basket .
He give one to each of the sister , and they take them without even deign to look at the lad , except Lina the young , who fix her large black eye as soft a velvet on him , and exclaim , ` Oh , how pretty he be -- our new flower boy ! '
The rest all burst out laughing , and the eldest point out that a princess ought never to lower herself by look at a garden boy .
Now Michael know quite well what have happen to all the prince , but notwithstanding , the beautiful eye of the Princess Lina inspire him with a violent longing to try his fate .
Unhappily he do not dare to come forward , be afraid that he should only be jeer at , or even turn away from the castle on account of his impudence .
V Nevertheless , the Star Gazer have another dream .
The lady in the golden dress appear to him once more , hold in one hand two young laurel tree , a cherry laurel and a rise laurel , and in the other hand a little golden rake , a little golden bucket , and a silken towel .
She thus address him : ` Plant these two laurel in two large pot , rake them over with the rake , water them with the bucket , and wipe them with the towel .
When they have grow as tall a a girl of fifteen , say to each of them , '' My beautiful laurel , with the golden rake I have rake you , with the golden bucket I have water you , with the silken towel I have wipe you . ''
Then after that ask anything you choose , and the laurel will give it to you . '
Michael thank the lady in the golden dress , and when he wake he find the two laurel bush beside him .
So he carefully obey the order he have be give by the lady .
The tree grow very fast , and when they be as tall a a girl of fifteen he say to the cherry laurel , ` My lovely cherry laurel , with the golden rake I have rake thee , with the golden bucket I have water thee , with the silken towel I have wipe thee .
Teach me how to become invisible . '
Then there instantly appear on the laurel a pretty white flower , which Michael gather and stick into his button-hole .
VI That even , when the princess go upstairs to bed , he follow them barefoot , so that he might make no noise , and hide himself under one of the twelve bed , so a not to take up much room .
The princess begin at once to open their wardrobe and box .
They take out of them the most magnificent dress , which they put on before their mirror , and when they have finish , turn themselves all round to admire their appearance .
Michael could see nothing from his hiding-place , but he could hear everything , and he listen to the princess laugh and jump with pleasure .
At last the eldest say , ` Be quick , my sister , our partner will be impatient . '
At the end of an hour , when the Star Gazer hear no more noise , he peep out and saw the twelve sister in splendid garment , with their satin shoe on their foot , and in their hand the bouquet he have bring them .
` Are you ready ? '
ask the eldest .
` Yes , ' reply the other eleven in chorus , and they take their place one by one behind her .
Then the eldest Princess clap her hand three time and a trap door open .
All the princess disappear down a secret staircase , and Michael hastily follow them .
As he be follow on the step of the Princess Lina , he carelessly tread on her dress .
` There be somebody behind me , ' cry the Princess ; ` they be hold my dress . '
` You foolish thing , ' say her eldest sister , ` you be always afraid of something .
It be only a nail which catch you . '
VII They go down , down , down , till at last they come to a passage with a door at one end , which be only fasten with a latch .
The eldest Princess open it , and they find themselves immediately in a lovely little wood , where the leaf be spangle with drop of silver which shone in the brilliant light of the moon .
They next cross another wood where the leaf be sprinkle with gold , and after that another still , where the leaf glitter with diamond .
At last the Star Gazer perceive a large lake , and on the shore of the lake twelve little boat with awning , in which be seat twelve prince , who , grasp their oar , await the princess .
Each princess enter one of the boat , and Michael slip into that which hold the young .
The boat glide along rapidly , but Lina 's , from be heavy , be always behind the rest .
` We never go so slowly before , ' say the Princess ; ` what can be the reason ? ' '
I do n't know , ' answer the Prince . '
I assure you I be row as hard a I can . '
On the other side of the lake the garden boy saw a beautiful castle splendidly illuminate , whence come the lively music of fiddle , kettle-drums , and trumpet .
In a moment they touch land , and the company jump out of the boat ; and the prince , after have securely fasten their barque , give their arm to the princess and conduct them to the castle .
VIII Michael follow , and enter the ball-room in their train .
Everywhere be mirror , light , flower , and damask hanging .
The Star Gazer be quite bewilder at the magnificence of the sight .
He place himself out of the way in a corner , admire the grace and beauty of the princess .
Their loveliness be of every kind .
Some be fair and some be dark ; some have chestnut hair , or curl darker still , and some have golden lock .
Never be so many beautiful princess see together at one time , but the one whom the cow-boy think the most beautiful and the most fascinating be the little Princess with the velvet eye .
With what eagerness she dance !
lean on her partner 's shoulder she sweep by like a whirlwind .
Her cheek flushed , her eye sparkle , and it be plain that she love dance good than anything else .
The poor boy envy those handsome young men with whom she dance so gracefully , but he do not know how little reason he have to be jealous of them .
The young men be really the prince who , to the number of fifty at least , have try to steal the princess ' secret .
The princess have make them drink something of a philtre , which freeze the heart and leave nothing but the love of dancing .
IX They dance on till the shoe of the princess be wear into hole .
When the cock crow the third time the fiddle stop , and a delicious supper be serve by negro boy , consist of sugared orange flower , crystallise rise leaf , powder violet , cracknels , wafer , and other dish , which be , a everyone know , the favourite food of princess .
After supper , the dancer all go back to their boat , and this time the Star Gazer enter that of the eldest Princess .
They cross again the wood with the diamond-spangled leaf , the wood with gold-sprinkled leaf , and the wood whose leaf glitter with drop of silver , and a a proof of what he have see , the boy break a small branch from a tree in the last wood .
Lina turn a she hear the noise make by the breaking of the branch .
` What be that noise ? '
she say .
` It be nothing , ' reply her eldest sister ; ` it be only the screech of the barn-owl that roost in one of the turret of the castle . '
While she be speak Michael manage to slip in front , and run up the staircase , he reach the princess ' room first .
He fling open the window , and slide down the vine which climb up the wall , find himself in the garden just a the sun be begin to rise , and it be time for him to set to his work .
X That day , when he make up the bouquet , Michael hide the branch with the silver drop in the nosegay intend for the young Princess .
When Lina discover it she be much surprise .
However , she say nothing to her sister , but a she meet the boy by accident while she be walk under the shade of the elm , she suddenly stop a if to speak to him ; then , alter her mind , go on her way .
The same even the twelve sister go again to the ball , and the Star Gazer again follow them and cross the lake in Lina 's boat .
This time it be the Prince who complain that the boat seem very heavy .
` It be the heat , ' reply the Princess .
` I , too , have be feel very warm . '
During the ball she look everywhere for the gardener 's boy , but she never saw him .
As they come back , Michael gather a branch from the wood with the gold-spangled leaf , and now it be the eldest Princess who hear the noise that it make in breaking .
` It be nothing , ' say Lina ; ` only the cry of the owl which roost in the turret of the castle . '
XI As soon a she get up she find the branch in her bouquet .
When the sister go down she stay a little behind and say to the cow-boy : ` Where do this branch come from ? '
` Your Royal Highness know well enough , ' answer Michael .
` So you have follow u ? '
` Yes , Princess . '
` How do you manage it ?
we never saw you . ' '
I hide myself , ' reply the Star Gazer quietly .
The Princess be silent a moment , and then say : ` You know our secret !
-- keep it .
Here be the reward of your discretion . '
And she fling the boy a purse of gold . '
I do not sell my silence , ' answer Michael , and he go away without pick up the purse .
For three night Lina neither saw nor hear anything extraordinary ; on the fourth she hear a rustling among the diamond-spangled leaf of the wood .
That day there be a branch of the tree in her bouquet .
She take the Star Gazer aside , and say to him in a harsh voice : ` You know what price my father have promise to pay for our secret ? ' '
I know , Princess , ' answer Michael .
` Do n't you mean to tell him ? '
` That be not my intention . '
` Are you afraid ? '
` No , Princess . '
` What make you so discreet , then ? '
But Michael be silent .
XII Lina 's sister have see her talk to the little garden boy , and jeer at her for it .
` What prevent your marry him ? '
ask the eldest , ` you would become a gardener too ; it be a charming profession .
You could live in a cottage at the end of the park , and help your husband to draw up water from the well , and when we get up you could bring u our bouquet . '
The Princess Lina be very angry , and when the Star Gazer present her bouquet , she receive it in a disdainful manner .
Michael behave most respectfully .
He never raise his eye to her , but nearly all day she felt him at her side without ever see him .
One day she make up her mind to tell everything to her eldest sister .
` What ! '
say she , ` this rogue know our secret , and you never tell me !
I must lose no time in get rid of him . '
` But how ? '
` Why , by have him take to the tower with the dungeon , of course . '
For this be the way that in old time beautiful princess get rid of people who know too much .
But the astonishing part of it be that the young sister do not seem at all to relish this method of stop the mouth of the gardener 's boy , who , after all , have say nothing to their father .
XIII It be agree that the question should be submit to the other ten sister .
All be on the side of the eldest .
Then the young sister declare that if they lay a finger on the little garden boy , she would herself go and tell their father the secret of the hole in their shoe .
At last it be decide that Michael should be put to the test ; that they would take him to the ball , and at the end of supper would give him the philtre which be to enchant him like the rest .
They send for the Star Gazer , and ask him how he have contrive to learn their secret ; but still he remain silent .
Then , in command tone , the eldest sister give him the order they have agree upon .
He only answer : ' I will obey . '
He have really be present , invisible , at the council of princess , and have hear all ; but he have make up his mind to drink of the philtre , and sacrifice himself to the happiness of her he love .
Not wish , however , to cut a poor figure at the ball by the side of the other dancer , he go at once to the laurel , and say : ` My lovely rise laurel , with the golden rake I have rake thee , with the golden bucket I have water thee , with a silken towel I have dry thee .
Dress me like a prince . '
A beautiful pink flower appear .
Michael gather it , and find himself in a moment clothe in velvet , which be as black a the eye of the little Princess , with a cap to match , a diamond aigrette , and a blossom of the rise laurel in his button-hole .
Thus dress , he present himself that even before the Duke of Beloeil , and obtain leave to try and discover his daughter ' secret .
He look so distinguished that hardly anyone would have know who he be .
XIV The twelve princesses go upstairs to bed .
Michael follow them , and wait behind the open door till they give the signal for departure .
This time he do not cross in Lina 's boat .
He give his arm to the eldest sister , dance with each in turn , and be so graceful that everyone be delight with him .
At last the time come for him to dance with the little Princess .
She find him the best partner in the world , but he do not dare to speak a single word to her .
When he be take her back to her place she say to him in a mocking voice : ` Here you be at the summit of your wish : you be be treat like a prince . '
` Do n't be afraid , ' reply the Star Gazer gently .
` You shall never be a gardener 's wife . '
The little Princess star at him with a frightened face , and he leave her without wait for an answer .
When the satin slipper be wear through the fiddle stop , and the negro boy set the table .
Michael be place next to the eldest sister , and opposite to the young .
They give him the most exquisite dish to eat , and the most delicate wine to drink ; and in order to turn his head more completely , compliment and flattery be heap on him from every side .
But he take care not to be intoxicate , either by the wine or the compliment .
XV At last the eldest sister make a sign , and one of the black page bring in a large golden cup .
` The enchanted castle have no more secret for you , ' she say to the Star Gazer .
` Let u drink to your triumph . '
He cast a lingering glance at the little Princess , and without hesitation lift the cup .
` Do n't drink ! '
suddenly cry out the little Princess ; ' I would rather marry a gardener . '
And she burst into tear .
Michael fling the content of the cup behind him , sprang over the table , and fell at Lina 's foot .
The rest of the prince fell likewise at the knee of the princess , each of whom choose a husband and raise him to her side .
The charm be break .
The twelve couple embark in the boat , which cross back many time in order to carry over the other prince .
Then they all go through the three wood , and when they have pass the door of the underground passage a great noise be heard , a if the enchanted castle be crumble to the earth .
They go straight to the room of the Duke of Beloeil , who have just awake .
Michael hold in his hand the golden cup , and he reveal the secret of the hole in the shoe .
` Choose , then , ' say the Duke , ` whichever you prefer . '
` My choice be already make , ' reply the garden boy , and he offer his hand to the young Princess , who blush and lower her eye .
XVI The Princess Lina do not become a gardener 's wife ; on the contrary , it be the Star Gazer who become a Prince : but before the marriage ceremony the Princess insist that her lover should tell her how he come to discover the secret .
So he show her the two laurel which have help him , and she , like a prudent girl , think they give him too much advantage over his wife , cut them off at the root and throw them in the fire .
And this be why the country girl go about singing : Nous n'irons plus au bois , Les lauriers sont coupe , ' and dance in summer by the light of the moon .
THE PRINCESS MAYBLOSSOM ONCE upon a time there live a King and Queen whose child have all die , first one and then another , until at last only one little daughter remain , and the Queen be at her wit ' end to know where to find a really good nurse who would take care of her , and bring her up .
A herald be send who blow a trumpet at every street corner , and command all the best nurse to appear before the Queen , that she might choose one for the little Princess .
So on the appoint day the whole palace be crowd with nurse , who come from the four corner of the world to offer themselves , until the Queen declare that if she be ever to see the half of them , they must be bring out to her , one by one , a she sit in a shady wood near the palace .
This be accordingly do , and the nurse , after they have make their curtsey to the King and Queen , range themselves in a line before her that she might choose .
Most of them be fair and fat and charming , but there be one who be dark-skinned and ugly , and speak a strange language which nobody could understand .
The Queen wonder how she dare offer herself , and she be tell to go away , a she certainly would not do .
Upon which she mutter something and pass on , but hide herself in a hollow tree , from which she could see all that happen .
The Queen , without give her another thought , choose a pretty rosy-faced nurse , but no sooner be her choice make than a snake , which be hide in the grass , bit that very nurse on her foot , so that she fell down as if dead .
The Queen be very much vex by this accident , but she soon select another , who be just step forward when an eagle flew by and drop a large tortoise upon her head , which be crack in piece like an egg-shell .
At this the Queen be much horrify ; nevertheless , she choose a third time , but with no good fortune , for the nurse , move quickly , run into the branch of a tree and blind herself with a thorn .
Then the Queen in dismay cry that there must be some malignant influence at work , and that she would choose no more that day ; and she have just rise to return to the palace when she hear peal of malicious laughter behind her , and turn round saw the ugly stranger whom she have dismiss , who be make very merry over the disaster and mock everyone , but especially the Queen .
This annoy Her Majesty very much , and she be about to order that she should be arrest , when the witch -- for she be a witch -- with two blow from a wand summon a chariot of fire draw by winged dragon , and be whirl off through the air uttering threat and cry .
When the King saw this he cry : ` Alas !
now we be ruin indeed , for that be no other than the Fairy Carabosse , who have have a grudge against me ever since I be a boy and put sulphur into her porridge one day for fun . '
Then the Queen begin to cry .
` If I have only know who it be , ' she say , ' I would have do my best to make friend with her ; now I suppose all be lose . '
The King be sorry to have frighten her so much , and propose that they should go and hold a council a to what be best to be do to avert the misfortune which Carabosse certainly mean to bring upon the little Princess .
So all the counsellor be summon to the palace , and when they have shut every door and window , and stuff up every keyhole that they might not be overheard , they talk the affair over , and decide that every fairy for a thousand league round should be invite to the christening of the Princess , and that the time of the ceremony should be keep a profound secret , in case the Fairy Carabosse should take it into her head to attend it .
The Queen and her lady set to work to prepare present for the fairy who be invite : for each one a blue velvet cloak , a petticoat of apricot satin , a pair of high-heeled shoe , some sharp needle , and a pair of golden scissors .
Of all the fairy the Queen know , only five be able to come on the day appoint , but they begin immediately to bestow gift upon the Princess .
One promise that she should be perfectly beautiful , the second that she should understand anything -- no matter what -- the first time it be explain to her , the third that she should sing like a nightingale , the fourth that she should succeed in everything she undertake , and the fifth be open her mouth to speak when a tremendous rumbling be hear in the chimney , and Carabosse , all cover with soot , come roll down , cry : ' I say that she shall be the unluckiest of the unlucky until she be twenty year old . '
Then the Queen and all the fairy begin to beg and beseech her to think good of it , and not be so unkind to the poor little Princess , who have never do her any harm .
But the ugly old Fairy only grunt and make no answer .
So the last Fairy , who have not yet give her gift , try to mend matter by promise the Princess a long and happy life after the fatal time be over .
At this Carabosse laugh maliciously , and climb away up the chimney , leave them all in great consternation , and especially the Queen .
However , she entertain the fairy splendidly , and give them beautiful ribbon , of which they be very fond , in addition to the other present .
When they be go away the old Fairy say that they be of opinion that it would be best to shut the Princess up in some place , with her waiting-women , so that she might not see anyone else until she be twenty year old .
So the King have a tower build on purpose .
It have no window , so it be light with wax candle , and the only way into it be by an underground passage , which have iron door only twenty foot apart , and guard be post everywhere .
The Princess have be name Mayblossom , because she be a fresh and bloom a Spring itself , and she grow up tall and beautiful , and everything she do and say be charm .
Every time the King and Queen come to see her they be more delighted with her than before , but though she be weary of the tower , and often beg them to take her away from it , they always refuse .
The Princess 's nurse , who have never leave her , sometimes tell her about the world outside the tower , and though the Princess have never see anything for herself , yet she always understand exactly , thanks to the second Fairy 's gift .
Often the King say to the Queen : ` We be clever than Carabosse after all .
Our Mayblossom will be happy in spite of her prediction . '
And the Queen laugh until she be tire at the idea of have outwit the old Fairy .
They have cause the Princess 's portrait to be paint and send to all the neighbouring Courts , for in four day she would have complete her twentieth year , and it be time to decide whom she should marry .
All the town be rejoice at the thought of the Princess 's approaching freedom , and when the news come that King Merlin be send his ambassador to ask her in marriage for his son , they be still more delighted .
The nurse , who keep the Princess informed of everything that go forward in the town , do not fail to repeat the news that so nearly concerned her , and give such a description of the splendour in which the ambassador Fanfaronade would enter the town , that the Princess be wild to see the procession for herself .
` What an unhappy creature I be , ' she cry , ` to be shut up in this dismal tower a if I have commit some crime !
I have never see the sun , or the star , or a horse , or a monkey , or a lion , except in picture , and though the King and Queen tell me I be to be set free when I be twenty , I believe they only say it to keep me amused , when they never mean to let me out at all . '
And then she begin to cry , and her nurse , and the nurse 's daughter , and the cradle-rocker , and the nursery-maid , who all love her dearly , cry too for company , so that nothing could be hear but sob and sigh .
It be a scene of woe .
When the Princess saw that they all pity her she make up her mind to have her own way .
So she declare that she would starve herself to death if they do not find some mean of let her see Fanfaronade 's grand entry into the town .
` If you really love me , ' she say , ` you will manage it , somehow or other , and the King and Queen need never know anything about it . '
Then the nurse and all the others cry hard than ever , and say everything they could think of to turn the Princess from her idea .
But the more they say the more determined she be , and at last they consent to make a tiny hole in the tower on the side that look towards the city gate .
After scratch and scrap all day and all night , they presently make a hole through which they could , with great difficulty , push a very slender needle , and out of this the Princess look at the daylight for the first time .
She be so dazzled and delight by what she saw , that there she stay , never take her eye away from the peep-hole for a single minute , until presently the ambassador 's procession appear in sight .
At the head of it ride Fanfaronade himself upon a white horse , which prance and caracole to the sound of the trumpet .
Nothing could have be more splendid than the ambassador 's attire .
His coat be nearly hide under an embroidery of pearl and diamond , his boot be solid gold , and from his helmet float scarlet plume .
At the sight of him the Princess lose her wits entirely , and determine that Fanfaronade and nobody else would she marry .
` It be quite impossible , ' she say , ` that his master should be half a handsome and delightful .
I be not ambitious , and have spend all my life in this tedious tower , anything -- even a house in the country -- will seem a delightful change .
I be sure that bread and water share with Fanfaronade will please me far well than roast chicken and sweetmeat with anybody else . '
And so she go on talk , talk , talk , until her waiting-women wonder where she get it all from .
But when they try to stop her , and represent that her high rank make it perfectly impossible that she should do any such thing , she would not listen , and order them to be silent .
As soon a the ambassador arrive at the palace , the Queen start to fetch her daughter .
All the street be spread with carpet , and the window be full of lady who be wait to see the Princess , and carry basket of flower and sweetmeat to shower upon her a she pass .
They have hardly begin to get the Princess ready when a dwarf arrive , mount upon an elephant .
He come from the five fairy , and bring for the Princess a crown , a sceptre , and a robe of golden brocade , with a petticoat marvellously embroider with butterfly ' wing .
They also send a casket of jewel , so splendid that no one have ever see anything like it before , and the Queen be perfectly dazzle when she open it .
But the Princess scarcely give a glance to any of these treasure , for she think of nothing but Fanfaronade .
The Dwarf be reward with a gold piece , and decorate with so many ribbon that it be hardly possible to see him at all .
The Princess send to each of the fairy a new spinning-wheel with a distaff of cedar wood , and the Queen say she must look through her treasure and find something very charm to send them also .
When the Princess be array in all the gorgeous thing the Dwarf have bring , she be more beautiful than ever , and a she walk along the street the people cry : ` How pretty she be !
How pretty she be ! '
The procession consist of the Queen , the Princess , five dozen other princesses her cousin , and ten dozen who come from the neighbouring kingdom ; and a they proceed at a stately pace the sky begin to grow dark , then suddenly the thunder growl , and rain and hail fell in torrent .
The Queen put her royal mantle over her head , and all the princess do the same with their train .
Mayblossom be just about to follow their example when a terrific croaking , a of an immense army of crow , rook , raven , screech-owls , and all bird of ill-omen be hear , and at the same instant a huge owl skim up to the Princess , and throw over her a scarf woven of spider ' web and embroider with bat ' wing .
And then peal of mock laughter rang through the air , and they guess that this be another of the Fairy Carabosse 's unpleasant joke .
The Queen be terrify at such an evil omen , and try to pull the black scarf from the Princess 's shoulder , but it really seem a if it must be nail on , it cling so closely .
` Ah ! '
cry the Queen , ` can nothing appease this enemy of ours ?
What good be it that I send her more than fifty pound of sweetmeat , and as much again of the best sugar , not to mention two Westphalia ham ?
She be as angry a ever . '
While she lament in this way , and everybody be as wet a if they have be drag through a river , the Princess still think of nothing but the ambassador , and just at this moment he appear before her , with the King , and there be a great blowing of trumpet , and all the people shout louder than ever .
Fanfaronade be not generally at a loss for something to say , but when he saw the Princess , she be so much more beautiful and majestic than he have expect that he could only stammer out a few word , and entirely forget the harangue which he have be learn for month , and knew well enough to have repeat it in his sleep .
To gain time to remember at least part of it , he make several low bow to the Princess , who on her side drop half-a-dozen curtsey without stop to think , and then say , to relieve his evident embarrassment : ` Sir Ambassador , I be sure that everything you intend to say be charm , since it be you who mean to say it ; but let u make haste into the palace , a it be pour cat and dog , and the wicked Fairy Carabosse will be amuse to see u all stand drip here .
When we be once under shelter we can laugh at her . '
Upon this the Ambassador find his tongue , and reply gallantly that the Fairy have evidently foresee the flame that would be kindle by the bright eye of the Princess , and have send this deluge to extinguish them .
Then he offer his hand to conduct the Princess , and she say softly : ` As you could not possibly guess how much I like you , Sir Fanfaronade , I be oblige to tell you plainly that , since I saw you enter the town on your beautiful prancing horse , I have be sorry that you come to speak for another instead of for yourself .
So , if you think about it a I do , I will marry you instead of your master .
Of course I know you be not a prince , but I shall be just a fond of you a if you be , and we can go and live in some cosy little corner of the world , and be as happy a the day be long . '
The Ambassador think he must be dream , and could hardly believe what the lovely Princess say .
He dare not answer , but only squeeze the Princess 's hand until he really hurt her little finger , but she do not cry out .
When they reach the palace the King kiss his daughter on both cheek , and say : ` My little lambkin , be you willing to marry the great King Merlin 's son , for this Ambassador have come on his behalf to fetch you ? '
` If you please , sire , ' say the Princess , drop a curtsey . '
I consent also , ' say the Queen ; ` so let the banquet be prepare . '
This be do with all speed , and everybody feast except Mayblossom and Fanfaronade , who look at one another and forget everything else .
After the banquet come a ball , and after that again a ballet , and at last they be all so tired that everyone fell asleep just where he sit .
Only the lover be as wide-awake a mouse , and the Princess , see that there be nothing to fear , say to Fanfaronade : ` Let u be quick and run away , for we shall never have a good chance than this . '
Then she take the King 's dagger , which be in a diamond sheath , and the Queen 's neck-handkerchief , and give her hand to Fanfaronade , who carry a lantern , and they run out together into the muddy street and down to the sea-shore .
Here they get into a little boat in which the poor old boatman be sleep , and when he wake up and saw the lovely Princess , with all her diamond and her spider ' -- web scarf , he do not know what to think , and obey her instantly when she command him to set out .
They could see neither moon nor star , but in the Queen 's neck-handkerchief there be a carbuncle which glow like fifty torch .
Fanfaronade ask the Princess where she would like to go , but she only answer that she do not care where she go as long a he be with her .
` But , Princess , ' say he , ' I dare not take you back to King Merlin 's court .
He would think hang too good for me . '
` Oh , in that case , ' she answer , ` we have well go to Squirrel Island ; it be lonely enough , and too far off for anyone to follow u there . '
So she order the old boatman to steer for Squirrel Island .
Meanwhile the day be break , and the King and Queen and all the courtier begin to wake up and rub their eye , and think it be time to finish the preparation for the wedding .
And the Queen ask for her neck-handkerchief , that she might look smart .
Then there be a scurrying hither and thither , and a hunting everywhere : they look into every place , from the wardrobe to the stove , and the Queen herself run about from the garret to the cellar , but the handkerchief be nowhere to be find .
By this time the King have miss his dagger , and the search begin all over again .
They open box and chest of which the key have be lose for a hundred year , and find number of curious thing , but not the dagger , and the King tear his beard , and the Queen tear her hair , for the handkerchief and the dagger be the most valuable thing in the kingdom .
When the King saw that the search be hopeless he say : ` Never mind , let u make haste and get the wedding over before anything else be lose . '
And then he ask where the Princess be .
Upon this her nurse come forward and say : ` Sire , I have be seek her these two hour , but she be nowhere to be find . '
This be more than the Queen could bear .
She give a shriek of alarm and faint away , and they have to pour two barrel of eau-de-cologne over her before she recover .
When she come to herself everybody be look for the Princess in the great terror and confusion , but a she do not appear , the King say to his page : ` Go and find the Ambassador Fanfaronade , who be doubtless asleep in some corner , and tell him the sad news . '
So the page hunt hither and thither , but Fanfaronade be no more to be find than the Princess , the dagger , or the neck-handkerchief !
Then the King summon his counsellor and his guard , and , accompany by the Queen , go into his great hall .
As he have not have time to prepare his speech beforehand , the King order that silence should be keep for three hour , and at the end of that time he speak a follow : ` Listen , great and small !
My dear daughter Mayblossom be lose : whether she have be steal away or have simply disappear I can not tell .
The Queen 's neck-handkerchief and my sword , which be worth their weight in gold , be also miss , and , what be bad of all , the Ambassador Fanfaronade be nowhere to be find .
I greatly fear that the King , his master , when he receive no tidings from him , will come to seek him among u , and will accuse u of have make mince-meat of him .
Perhaps I could bear even that if I have any money , but I assure you that the expense of the wedding have completely ruin me .
Advise me , then , my dear subject , what have I well do to recover my daughter , Fanfaronade , and the other thing . '
This be the most eloquent speech the King have be know to make , and when everybody have do admire it the Prime Minister make answer : ` Sire , we be all very sorry to see you so sorry .
We would give everything we value in the world to take away the cause of your sorrow , but this seem to be another of the trick of the Fairy Carabosse .
The Princess 's twenty unlucky year be not quite over , and really , if the truth must be tell , I notice that Fanfaronade and the Princess appear to admire one another greatly .
Perhaps this may give some clue to the mystery of their disappearance . '
Here the Queen interrupt him , say , ` Take care what you say , sir .
Believe me , the Princess Mayblossom be far too well bring up to think of fall in love with an Ambassador . '
At this the nurse come forward , and , fall on her knee , confess how they have make the little needle-hole in the tower , and how the Princess have declare when she saw the Ambassador that she would marry him and nobody else .
Then the Queen be very angry , and give the nurse , and the cradle-rocker , and the nursery-maid such a scold that they shake in their shoe .
But the Admiral Cocked-Hat interrupt her , cry : ` Let u be off after this good-for-nothing Fanfaronade , for with out a doubt he have run away with our Princess . '
Then there be a great clapping of hand , and everybody shout , ` By all mean let u be after him . '
So while some embarked upon the sea , the others run from kingdom to kingdom beat drum and blow trumpet , and wherever a crowd collect they cry : ` Whoever want a beautiful doll , sweetmeat of all kind , a little pair of scissors , a golden robe , and a satin cap have only to say where Fanfaronade have hide the Princess Mayblossom . '
But the answer everywhere be , ` You must go far , we have not see them . '
However , those who go by sea be more fortunate , for after sail about for some time they notice a light before them which burn at night like a great fire .
At first they dare not go near it , not know what it might be , but by-and-by it remain stationary over Squirrel Island , for , a you have guess already , the light be the glowing of the carbuncle .
The Princess and Fanfaronade on land upon the island have give the boatman a hundred gold piece , and make him promise solemnly to tell no one where he have take them ; but the first thing that happen be that , a he row away , he get into the midst of the fleet , and before he could escape the Admiral have see him and send a boat after him .
When he be search they find the gold piece in his pocket , and a they be quite new coin , strike in honour of the Princess 's wedding , the Admiral felt certain that the boatman must have be pay by the Princess to aid her in her flight .
But he would not answer any question , and pretend to be deaf and dumb .
Then the Admiral say : ` Oh !
deaf and dumb be he ?
Lash him to the mast and give him a taste of the cat-o ' - nine-tails .
I do n't know anything good than that for cure the deaf and dumb ! '
And when the old boatman saw that he be in earnest , he tell all he know about the cavalier and the lady whom he have land upon Squirrel Island , and the Admiral know it must be the Princess and Fanfaronade ; so he give the order for the fleet to surround the island .
Meanwhile the Princess Mayblossom , who be by this time terribly sleepy , have find a grassy bank in the shade , and throw herself down have already fall into a profound slumber , when Fanfaronade , who happen to be hungry and not sleepy , come and wake her up , say , very crossly : ` Pray , madam , how long do you mean to stay here ?
I see nothing to eat , and though you may be very charming , the sight of you do not prevent me from famish . '
` What !
Fanfaronade , ' say the Princess , sit up and rub her eye , ` be it possible that when I be here with you you can want anything else ?
You ought to be think all the time how happy you be . '
` Happy ! '
cry he ; ` say rather unhappy .
I wish with all my heart that you be back in your dark tower again . '
` Darling , do n't be cross , ' say the Princess . '
I will go and see if I can find some wild fruit for you . ' '
I wish you might find a wolf to eat you up , ' growl Fanfaronade .
The Princess , in great dismay , run hither and thither all about the wood , tear her dress , and hurt her pretty white hand with the thorn and bramble , but she could find nothing good to eat , and at last she have to go back sorrowfully to Fanfaronade .
When he saw that she come empty-handed he get up and leave her , grumble to himself .
The next day they search again , but with no good success .
` Alas ! '
say the Princess , ` if only I could find something for you to eat , I should not mind be hungry myself . '
` No , I should not mind that either , ' answer Fanfaronade .
` Is it possible , ' say she , ` that you would not care if I die of hunger ?
Oh , Fanfaronade , you say you love me ! '
` That be when we be in quite another place and I be not hungry , ' say he .
` It make a great difference in one 's idea to be die of hunger and thirst on a desert island . '
At this the Princess be dreadfully vexed , and she sit down under a white rise bush and begin to cry bitterly .
` Happy rose , ' she think to herself , ` they have only to blossom in the sunshine and be admire , and there be nobody to be unkind to them . '
And the tear run down her cheek and splash on to the rose-tree root .
Presently she be surprised to see the whole bush rustling and shaking , and a soft little voice from the pretty rosebud say : ` Poor Princess !
look in the trunk of that tree , and you will find a honeycomb , but do n't be foolish enough to share it with Fanfaronade . '
Mayblossom run to the tree , and sure enough there be the honey .
Without lose a moment she run with it to Fanfaronade , cry gaily : ` See , here be a honeycomb that I have find .
I might have eat it up all by myself , but I have rather share it with you . '
But without look at her or thank her he snatch the honey comb out of her hand and eat it all up -- every bit , without offer her a morsel .
Indeed , when she humbly ask for some he say mockingly that it be too sweet for her , and would spoil her teeth .
Mayblossom , more downcast than ever , go sadly away and sit down under an oak tree , and her tear and sigh be so piteous that the oak fan her with his rustle leaf , and say : ` Take courage , pretty Princess , all be not lose yet .
Take this pitcher of milk and drink it up , and whatever you do , do n't leave a drop for Fanfaronade . '
The Princess , quite astonish , look round , and saw a big pitcher full of milk , but before she could raise it to her lip the thought of how thirsty Fanfaronade must be , after eat at least fifteen pound of honey , make her run back to him and say : ` Here be a pitcher of milk ; drink some , for you must be thirsty I be sure ; but pray save a little for me , a I be die of hunger and thirst . '
But he seize the pitcher and drank all it contain at a single draught , and then break it to atoms on the near stone , say with a malicious smile : ` As you have not eat anything you can not be thirsty . '
` Ah ! '
cry the Princess , ' I be well punish for disappoint the King and Queen , and run away with this Ambassador about whom I know nothing . '
And so say she wander away into the thick part of the wood , and sit down under a thorn tree , where a nightingale be sing .
Presently she hear him say : ` Search under the bush Princess ; you will find some sugar , almond , and some tart there But do n't be silly enough to offer Fanfaronade any . '
And this time the Princess , who be faint with hunger , take the nightingale 's advice , and eat what she find all by herself .
But Fanfaronade , see that she have find something good , and be not go to share it with him , ran after her in such a fury that she hastily draw out the Queen 's carbuncle , which have the property of render people invisible if they be in danger , and when she be safely hide from him she reproach him gently for his unkindness .
Meanwhile Admiral Cocked-Hat have despatch Jack-the-Chatterer-of-the-Straw-Boots , Courier in Ordinary to the Prime Minister , to tell the King that the Princess and the Ambassador have land on Squirrel Island , but that not know the country he have not pursue them , for fear of be capture by concealed enemy .
Their Majesties be overjoy at the news , and the King sent for a great book , each leaf of which be eight ell long .
It be the work of a very clever Fairy , and contain a description of the whole earth .
He very soon find that Squirrel Island be uninhabited .
` Go , ' say he , to Jack-the-Chatterer , ` tell the Admiral from me to land at once .
I be surprise at his not have do so sooner . '
As soon a this message reach the fleet , every preparation be make for war , and the noise be so great that it reach the ear of the Princess , who at once fly to protect her lover .
As he be not very brave he accept her aid gladly .
` You stand behind me , ' say she , ` and I will hold the carbuncle which will make u invisible , and with the King 's dagger I can protect you from the enemy . '
So when the soldier land they could see nothing , but the Princess touch them one after another with the dagger , and they fell insensible upon the sand , so that at last the Admiral , see that there be some enchantment , hastily give order for a retreat to be sound , and get his men back into their boat in great confusion .
Fanfaronade , be once more left with the Princess , begin to think that if he could get rid of her , and posse himself of the carbuncle and the dagger , he would be able to make his escape .
So a they walk back over the cliff he give the Princess a great push , hop she would fall into the sea ; but she step aside so quickly that he only succeed in overbalance himself , and over he go , and sink to the bottom of the sea like a lump of lead , and be never hear of any more .
While the Princess be still look after him in horror , her attention be attract by a rushing noise over her head , and look up she saw two chariot approach rapidly from opposite direction .
One be bright and glittering , and draw by swan and peacock , while the Fairy who sit in it be beautiful a a sunbeam ; but the other be draw by bat and raven , and contain a frightful little Dwarf , who be dress in a snake 's skin , and wear a great toad upon her head for a hood .
The chariot meet with a frightful crash in mid-air , and the Princess look on in breathless anxiety while a furious battle take place between the lovely Fairy with her golden lance , and the hideous little Dwarf and her rusty pike .
But very soon it be evident that the Beauty have the best of it , and the Dwarf turn her bat ' head and flicker away in great confusion , while the Fairy come down to where the Princess stand , and say , smile , ` You see Princess , I have completely rout that malicious old Carabosse .
Will you believe it !
she actually want to claim authority over you for ever , because you come out of the tower four day before the twenty year be end .
However , I think I have settle her pretension , and I hope you will be very happy and enjoy the freedom I have win for you . '
The Princess thank her heartily , and then the Fairy despatch one of her peacock to her palace to bring a gorgeous robe for Mayblossom , who certainly need it , for her own be tear to shred by the thorn and briar .
Another peacock be send to the Admiral to tell him that he could now land in perfect safety , which he at once do , bring all his men with him , even to Jack-the-Chatterer , who , happen to pass the spit upon which the Admiral 's dinner be roast , snatch it up and bring it with him .
Admiral Cocked-Hat be immensely surprised when he come upon the golden chariot , and still more so to see two lovely lady walk under the tree a little farther away .
When he reach them , of course he recognise the Princess , and he go down on his knee and kiss her hand quite joyfully .
Then she present him to the Fairy , and tell him how Carabosse have be finally rout , and he thank and congratulate the Fairy , who be most gracious to him .
While they be talk she cry suddenly : ' I declare I smell a savoury dinner . '
` Why yes , Madam , here it be , ' say Jack-the-Chatterer , hold up the spit , where all the pheasant and partridge be frizzle .
` Will your Highness please to taste any of them ? '
` By all mean , ' say the Fairy , ` especially a the Princess will certainly be glad of a good meal . '
So the Admiral send back to his ship for everything that be needful , and they feast merrily under the tree .
By the time they have finish the peacock have come back with a robe for the Princess , in which the Fairy array her .
It be of green and gold brocade , embroider with pearl and ruby , and her long golden hair be tie back with string of diamond and emerald , and crown with flower .
The Fairy make her mount beside her in the golden chariot , and take her on board the Admiral 's ship , where she bid her farewell , send many message of friendship to the Queen , and bid the Princess tell her that she be the fifth Fairy who have attend the christening .
Then salute be fire , the fleet weigh anchor , and very soon they reach the port .
Here the King and Queen be wait , and they receive the Princess with such joy and kindness that she could not get a word in edgewise , to say how sorry she be for have run away with such a very poor spirit Ambassador .
But , after all , it must have be all Carabosse 's fault .
Just at this lucky moment who should arrive but King Merlin 's son , who have become uneasy at not receive any news from his Ambassador , and so have start himself with a magnificent escort of a thousand horseman , and thirty body-guards in gold and scarlet uniform , to see what could have happen .
As he be a hundred time handsome and braver than the Ambassador , the Princess find she could like him very much .
So the wedding be hold at once , with so much splendour and rejoice that all the previous misfortune be quite forget .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- La Princesse Printaniere .
Par Mme . d'Aulnoy .
SORIA MORIA CASTLE THERE be once upon a time a couple of folk who have a son call Halvor .
Ever since he have be a little boy he have be unwilling to do any work , and have just sit rake about among the ash .
His parent send him away to learn several thing , but Halvor stay nowhere , for when he have be go two or three day he always run away from his master , hurry off home , and sit down in the chimney corner to grub among the ash again .
One day , however , a sea captain come and ask Halvor if he have n't a fancy to come with him and go to sea , and behold foreign land .
And Halvor have a fancy for that , so he be not long in get ready .
How long they sail I have no idea , but after a long , long time there be a terrible storm , and when it be over and all have become calm again , they know not where they be , for they have be drive away to a strange coast of which none of them have any knowledge .
As there be no wind at all they lay there becalm , and Halvor ask the skipper to give him leave to go on shore to look about him , for he would much rather do that than lie there and sleep .
` Dost thou think that thou art fit to go where people can see thee ? '
say the skipper ; ` thou hast no clothes but those rag thou art go about in ! '
Halvor still beg for leave , and at last get it , but he be to come back at once if the wind begin to rise .
So he go on shore , and it be a delightful country ; whithersoever he go there be wide plain with field and meadow , but a for people , there be none to be see .
The wind begin to rise , but Halvor think that he have not see enough yet , and that he would like to walk about a little long , to try if he could not meet somebody .
So after a while he come to a great highway , which be so smooth that an egg might have be roll along it without break .
Halvor follow this , and when even draw near he saw a big castle far away in the distance , and there be light in it .
So a he have now be walk the whole day and have not bring anything to eat away with him , he be frightfully hungry .
Nevertheless , the nearer he come to the castle the more afraid he be .
A fire be burn in the castle , and Halvor go into the kitchen , which be more magnificent than any kitchen he have ever yet behold .
There be vessel of gold and silver , but not one human be be to be see .
When Halvor have stand there for some time , and no one have come out , he go in and open a door , and inside a Princess be sit at her wheel spinning .
` Nay ! '
she cry , ` can Christian folk dare to come hither ?
But the best thing that you can do be to go away again , for if not the Troll will devour you .
A Troll with three head live here . ' '
I should have be just as well pleased if he have have four head more , for I should have enjoy see the fellow , ' say the youth ; ` and I wo n't go away , for I have do no harm , but you must give me something to eat , for I be frightfully hungry . '
When Halvor have eat his fill , the Princess tell him to try if he could wield the sword which be hang on the wall , but he could not wield it , nor could he even lift it up .
` Well , then , you must take a drink out of that bottle which be hang by it side , for that 's what the Troll do whenever he go out and want to use the sword , ' say the Princess .
Halvor take a draught , and in a moment he be able to swing the sword about with perfect ease .
And now he think it be high time for the Troll to make his appearance , and at that very moment he come , pant for breath .
Halvor get behind the door .
` Hutetu ! '
say the Troll a he put his head in at the door .
` It smell just a if there be Christian man 's blood here ! '
` Yes , you shall learn that there be ! '
say Halvor , and cut off all his head .
The Princess be so rejoiced to be free that she dance and sang , but then she remember her sister , and say : ` If my sister be but free too ! '
` Where be they ? '
ask Halvor .
So she tell him where they be .
One of them have be take away by a Troll to his castle , which be six mile off , and the other have be carry off to a castle which be nine mile far off still .
` But now , ' say she , ` you must first help me to get this dead body away from here . '
Halvor be so strong that he clear everything away , and make all clean and tidy very quickly .
So then they eat and drank , and be happy , and next morning he set off in the grey light of dawn .
He give himself no rest , but walk or run the livelong day .
When he come in sight of the castle he be again just a little afraid .
It be much more splendid than the other , but here too there be not a human be to be see .
So Halvor go into the kitchen , and do not linger there either , but go straight in .
` Nay !
do Christian folk dare to come here ? '
cry the second Princess . '
I know not how long it be since I myself come , but during all that time I have never see a Christian man .
It will be good for you to depart at once , for a Troll live here who have six head . '
` No , I shall not go , ' say Halvor ; ` even if he have six more I would not . '
` He will swallow you up alive , ' say the Princess .
But she speak to no purpose , for Halvor would not go ; he be not afraid of the Troll , but he want some meat and drink , for he be hungry after his journey .
So she give him as much a he would have , and then she once more tried to make him go away .
` No , ' say Halvor , ' I will not go , for I have not do anything wrong , and I have no reason to be afraid . '
` He wo n't ask any question about that , ' say the Princess , ` for he will take you without leave or right ; but a you will not go , try if you can wield that sword which the Troll use in battle . '
He could not brandish the sword ; so the Princess say that he be to take a draught from the flask which hung by it side , and when he have do that he could wield the sword .
Soon afterwards the Troll come , and he be so large and stout that he be force to go sideways to get through the door .
When the Troll get his first head in he cry : ` Hutetu !
It smell of a Christian man 's blood here ! '
With that Halvor cut off the first head , and so on with all the rest .
The Princess be now exceedingly delighted , but then she remember her sister , and wish that they too be free .
Halvor think that might be manage , and want to set off immediately ; but first he have to help the Princess to remove the Troll 's body , so it be not until morning that he set forth on his way .
It be a long way to the castle , and he both walk and run to get there in time .
Late in the evening he catch sight of it , and it be very much more magnificent than either of the others .
And this time he be not in the least afraid , but go into the kitchen , and then straight on inside the castle .
There a Princess be sit , who be so beautiful that there be never anyone to equal her .
She too say what the others have say , that no Christian folk have ever be there since she have come , and entreat him to go away again , or else the Troll would swallow him up alive .
The Troll have nine head , she tell him .
` Yes , and if he have nine add to the nine , and then nine more still , I would not go away , ' say Halvor , and go and stood by the stove .
The Princess beg him very prettily to go l the Troll should devour him ; but Halvor say , ` Let him come when he will . '
So she give him the Troll 's sword , and bid him take a drink from the flask to enable him to wield it .
At that same moment the Troll come , breathe hard , and he be ever so much big and stout than either of the others , and he too be force to go sideways to get in through the door .
` Hutetu !
what a smell of Christian blood there be here ! '
say he .
Then Halvor cut off the first head , and after that the others , but the last be the tough of them all , and it be the hard work that Halvor have ever do to get it off , but he still believe that he would have strength enough to do it .
And now all the Princesses come to the castle , and be together again , and they be happy than they have ever be in their life ; and they be delight with Halvor , and he with them , and he be to choose the one he like best ; but of the three sister the young love him best .
But Halvor go about and be so strange and so mournful and quiet that the Princesses ask what it be that he long for , and if he do not like to be with them .
He say that he do like to be with them , for they have enough to live on , and he be very comfortable there ; but he long to go home , for his father and mother be alive , and he have a great desire to see them again .
They think that this might easily be do .
` You shall go and return in perfect safety if you will follow our advice , ' say the Princesses .
So he say that he would do nothing that they do not wish .
Then they dress him so splendidly that he be like a King 's son ; and they put a ring on his finger , and it be one which would enable him to go there and back again by wish , but they tell him that he must not throw it away , or name their name ; for if he do , all his magnificence would be at an end , and then he would never see them more .
` If I be but at home again , or if home be but here ! '
say Halvor , and no sooner have he wish this than it be grant .
Halvor be stand outside his father and mother 's cottage before he know what he be about .
The darkness of night be come on , and when the father and mother saw such a splendid and stately strange walk in , they be so startle that they both begin to bow and curtsey .
Halvor then inquire if he could stay there and have lodge for the night .
No , that he certainly could not .
` We can give you no such accommodation , ' they say , ` for we have none of the thing that be needful when a great lord like you be to be entertain .
It will be good for you to go up to the farm .
It be not far off , you can see the chimney-pots from here , and there they have plenty of everything . '
Halvor would not hear of that , he be absolutely determine to stay where he be ; but the old folk stick to what they have say , and tell him that he be to go to the farm , where he could get both meat and drink , whereas they themselves have not even a chair to offer him .
` No , ' say Halvor , ' I will not go up there till early to-morrow morning ; let me stay here to-night .
I can sit down on the hearth . '
They could say nothing against that , so Halvor sit down on the hearth , and begin to rake about among the ash just a he have do before , when he lay there idle away his time .
They chatter much about many thing , and tell Halvor of this and of that , and at last he ask them if they have never have any child .
` Yes , ' they say ; they have have a boy who be call Halvor , but they do not know where he have go , and they could not even say whether he be dead or alive .
` Could I be he ? '
say Halvor . '
I should know him well enough , ' say the old woman rise .
` Our Halvor be so idle and slothful that he never do anything at all , and he be so ragged that one hole run into another all over his clothes .
Such a fellow a he be could never turn into such a man a you be , sir . '
In a short time the old woman have to go to the fireplace to stir the fire , and when the blaze light up Halvor , a it use to do when he be at home rake up the ash , she know him again .
` Good Heavens !
be that you , Halvor ? '
say she , and such great gladness fell on the old parent that there be no bound to it .
And now he have to relate everything that have befall him , and the old woman be so delighted with him that she would take him up to the farm at once to show him to the girl who have formerly look down on him so .
She go there first , and Halvor follow her .
When she get there she tell them how Halvor have come home again , and now they should just see how magnificent he be .
` He look like a prince , ' she say .
` We shall see that he be just the same ragamuffin that he be before , ' say the girl , toss their head .
At that same moment Halvor enter , and the girl be so astonish that they leave their kirtle lie in the chimney corner , and run away in nothing but their petticoat .
When they come in again they be so shamefaced that they hardly dare to look at Halvor , towards whom they have always be so proud and haughty before .
` Ay , ay !
you have always think that you be so pretty and dainty that no one be equal to you , ' say Halvor , ` but you should just see the eldest Princess whom I set free .
You look like herds-women compare with her , and the second Princess be also much pretty than you ; but the young , who be my sweetheart , be more beautiful than either sun or moon .
I wish to Heaven they be here , and then you would see them . '
Scarcely have he say this before they be stand by his side , but then he be very sorrowful , for the word which they have say to him come to his mind .
Up at the farm a great feast be make ready for the Princesses , and much respect pay to them , but they would not stay there .
` We want to go down to your parent , ' they say to Halvor , ` so we will go out and look about u . '
He follow them out , and they come to a large pond outside the farm-house .
Very near the water there be a pretty green bank , and there the Princesses say they would sit down and while away an hour , for they think that it would be pleasant to sit and look out over the water , they say .
There they sit down , and when they have sit for a short time the young Princess say , ' I may as well comb your hair a little , Halvor . '
So Halvor lay his head down on her lap , and she comb it , and it be not long before he fell asleep .
Then she take her ring from him and put another in it place , and then she say to her sister : ` Hold me a I be hold you .
I would that we be at Soria Moria Castle . '
When Halvor awake he know that he have lose the Princesses , and begin to weep and lament , and be so unhappy that he could not be comfort .
In spite of all his father 's and mother 's entreaty , he would not stay , but bid them farewell , say that he would never see them more , for if he do not find the Princess again he do not think it worth while to live .
He again have three hundred dollar , which he put into his pocket and go on his way .
When he have walk some distance he meet a man with a tolerably good horse .
Halvor long to buy it , and begin to bargain with the man .
` Well , I have not exactly be think of sell him , ' say the man , ` but if we could agree , perhaps -- ' Halvor inquire how much he want to have for the horse . '
I do not give much for him , and he be not worth much ; he be a capital horse to ride , but good for nothing at draw ; but he will always be able to carry your bag of provision and you too , if you walk and ride by turn . '
At last they agree about the price , and Halvor lay his bag on the horse , and sometimes he walk and sometimes he ride .
In the evening he come to a green field , where stand a great tree , under which he seat himself .
Then he let the horse loose and lay down to sleep , but before he do that he take his bag off the horse .
At daybreak he set off again , for he do not feel a if he could take any rest .
So he walk and ride the whole day , through a great wood where there be many green place which gleam very prettily among the tree .
He do not know where he be or whither he be go , but he never linger longer in any place than be enough to let his horse get a little food when they come to one of these green spot , while he himself take out his bag of provision .
So he walk and he ride , and it seem to him that the wood would never come to an end .
But on the evening of the second day he saw a light shin through the tree .
` If only there be some people up there I might warm myself and get something to eat , ' think Halvor .
When he get to the place where the light have come from , he saw a wretched little cottage , and through a small pane of glass he saw a couple of old folk inside .
They be very old , and as grey-headed a a pigeon , and the old woman have such a long nose that she sit in the chimney corner and use it to stir the fire .
` Good evening I good evening ! '
say the old hag ; ` but what errand have you that can bring you here ?
No Christian folk have be here for more than a hundred year . '
So Halvor tell her that he want to get to Soria Moria Castle , and inquired if she know the way thither .
` No , ' say the old woman , ` that I do not , but the Moon will be here presently , and I will ask her , and she will know .
She can easily see it , for she shin on all thing . '
So when the Moon stand clear and bright above the tree-tops the old woman go out .
` Moon !
Moon ! '
she scream .
` Canst thou tell me the way to Soria Moria Castle ? '
` No , ' say the Moon , ` that I ca n't , for when I shine there , there be a cloud before me . '
` Wait a little long , ' say the old woman to Halvor , ` for the West Wind will presently be here , and he will know it , for he breathe gently or blow into every corner . '
` What !
have you a horse too ? '
she say when she come in again .
` Oh !
let the poor creature loose in our bit of fenced-in pasture , and do n't let it stand there starve at our very door .
But wo n't you exchange him with me ?
We have a pair of old boot here with which you can go fifteen quarter of a mile at each step .
You shall have them for the horse , and then you will be able to get sooner to Soria Moria Castle . '
Halvor consent to this at once , and the old woman be so delighted with the horse that she be ready to dance .
` For now I , too , shall be able to ride to church , ' she say .
Halvor could take no rest , and want to set off immediately ; but the old woman say that there be no need to hasten .
` Lie down on the bench and sleep a little , for we have no bed to offer you , ' say she , ` and I will watch for the come of the West Wind . '
Ere long come the West Wind , roar so loud that the wall creak .
The old woman go out and cry : ` West Wind !
West Wind !
Canst thou tell me the way to Soria Moria Castle ?
Here be one who would go thither . '
` Yes , I know it well , ' say the West Wind . '
I be just on my way there to dry the clothes for the wedding which be to take place .
If he be fleet of foot he can go with me . '
Out ran Halvor .
` You will have to make haste if you mean to go with me , ' say the West Wind ; and away it go over hill and dale , and moor and morass , and Halvor have enough to do to keep up with it .
` Well , now I have no time to stay with you any long , ' say the West Wind , ` for I must first go and tear down a bit of spruce fir before I go to the bleaching-ground to dry the clothes ; but just go along the side of the hill , and you will come to some girl who be stand there wash clothes , and then you will not have to walk far before you be at Soria Moria Castle . '
Shortly afterwards Halvor come to the girl who be stand washing , and they ask him if he have see anything of the West Wind , who be to come there to dry the clothes for the wedding .
` Yes , ' say Halvor , ` he have only go to break down a bit of spruce fir .
It wo n't be long before he be here . '
And then he ask them the way to Soria Moria Castle .
They put him in the right way , and when he come in front of the castle it be so full of horse and people that it swarm with them .
But Halvor be so ragged and torn with follow the West Wind through bush and bog that he keep on one side , and would not go among the crowd until the last day , when the feast be to be hold at noon .
So when , a be the usage and custom , all be to drink to the bride and the young girl who be present , the cup-bearer fill the cup for each in turn , both bride and bridegroom , and knight and servant , and at last , after a very long time , he come to Halvor .
He drink their health , and then slip the ring which the Princess have put on his finger when they be sit by the waterside into the glass , and order the cup-bearer to carry the glass to the bride from him and greet her .
Then the Princess at once rise up from the table , and say , ` Who be most worthy to have one of u -- he who have deliver u from the Trolls or he who be sit here a bridegroom ? '
There could be but one opinion a to that , everyone thought , and when Halvor hear what they say he be not long in fling off his beggar 's rag and array himself a a bridegroom .
` Yes , he be the right one , ' cry the young Princess when she catch sight of him ; so she fling the other out of the window and hold her wedding with Halvor .
-LRB- 2 -RRB- -LRB- 2 -RRB- From P. C. Asbjornsen .
THE DEATH OF KOSHCHEI THE DEATHLESS IN a certain kingdom there live a Prince Ivan .
He have three sister .
The first be the Princess Marya , the second the Princess Olga , the third the Princess Anna .
When their father and mother lay at the point of death , they have thus enjoin their son : ` Give your sister in marriage to the very first suitor who come to woo them .
Do n't go keep them by you ! '
They die , and the Prince bury them , and then , to solace his grief , he go with his sister into the garden green to stroll .
Suddenly the sky be cover by a black cloud ; a terrible storm arose .
` Let u go home , sister ! '
he cry .
Hardly have they get into the palace , when the thunder peal , the ceiling split open , and into the room where they be come fly a falcon bright .
The Falcon smote upon the ground , become a brave youth , and say : ` Hail , Prince Ivan !
Before I come a a guest , but now I have come a a wooer !
I wish to propose for your sister , the Princess Marya . '
` If you find favour in the eye of my sister , I will not interfere with her wish .
Let her marry you , in God 's name ! '
The Princess Marya give her consent ; the Falcon marry her and bore her away into his own realm .
Days follow day , hour chase hour ; a whole year go by .
One day Prince Ivan and his two sister go out to stroll in the garden green .
Again there arise a storm-cloud , with whirlwind and lightning .
` Let u go home , sister ! '
cry the Prince .
Scarcely have they enter the palace when the thunder crash , the roof burst into a blaze , the ceiling split in twain , and in fly an eagle .
The Eagle smote upon the ground and become a brave youth .
` Hail , Prince Ivan !
I Before I come a a guest , but now I have come a a wooer ! '
And he ask for the hand of the Princess Olga .
Prince Ivan reply : ` If you find favour in the eye of the Princess Olga , then let her marry you .
I will not interfere with her liberty of choice . '
The Princess Olga give her consent and marry the Eagle .
The Eagle take her and carry her off to his own kingdom .
Another year go by .
Prince Ivan say to his young sister : ` Let u go out and stroll in the garden green ! '
They stroll about for a time .
Again there arise a storm-cloud , with whirlwind and lightning .
` Let u return home , sister ! '
say he .
They return home , but they have n't have time to sit down when the thunder crash , the ceiling split open , and in fly a raven .
The Raven smite upon the floor and become a brave youth .
The former youth have be handsome , but this one be handsomer still .
` Well , Prince Ivan !
Before I come a a guest , but now I have come a a wooer !
Give me the Princess Anna to wife . ' '
I wo n't interfere with my sister 's freedom .
If you gain her affection , let her marry you . '
So the Princess Anna marry the Raven , and he bore her away into his own realm .
Prince Ivan be leave alone .
A whole year he live without his sister ; then he grow weary , and say : ' I will set out in search of my sister . '
He get ready for the journey , he ride and rode , and one day he saw a whole army lie dead on the plain .
He cry aloud , ` If there be a living man there , let him make answer !
Who have slay this mighty host ? '
There reply unto him a living man : ` All this mighty host have be slay by the fair Princess Marya Morevna . '
Prince Ivan ride far on , and come to a white tent , and forth come to meet him the fair Princess Marya Morevna .
` Hail , Prince ! '
say she ; ` whither do God send you ?
and be it of your free will or against your will ? '
Prince Ivan reply , ` Not against their will do brave youth ride ! '
` Well , if your business be not press , tarry awhile in my tent . '
Thereat be Prince Ivan glad .
He spend two night in the tent , and he find favour in the eye of Marya Morevna , and she marry him .
The fair Princess , Marya Morevna , carry him off into her own realm .
They spend some time together , and then the Princess take it into her head to go a warring .
So she hand over all the house-keeping affair to Prince Ivan , and give him these instruction : ` Go about everywhere , keep watch over everything ; only do not venture to look into that closet there . '
He could n't help do so .
The moment Marya Morevna have go he rush to the closet , pull open the door , and look in -- there hung Koshchei the Deathless , fetter by twelve chain .
Then Koshchei entreat Prince Ivan , say : ` Have pity upon me and give me to drink !
Ten year long have I be here in torment , neither eat nor drinking ; my throat be utterly dry up . '
The Prince give him a bucketful of water ; he drink it up and ask for more , say : ' A single bucket of water will not quench my thirst ; give me more ! '
The Prince give him a second bucketful .
Koshchei drink it up and ask for a third , and when he have swallow the third bucketful , he regain his former strength , give his chain a shake , and break all twelve at once .
` Thanks , Prince Ivan ! '
cry Koshchei the Deathless , ` now you will sooner see your own ear than Marya Morevna ! '
and out of the window he fly in the shape of a terrible whirlwind .
And he come up with the fair Princess Marya Morevna a she be go her way , lay hold of her and carry her off home with him .
But Prince Ivan wept full sore , and he array himself and set out a-wandering , say to himself , ` Whatever happen , I will go and look for Marya Morevna ! '
One day pass , another day pass ; at the dawn of the third day he saw a wondrous palace , and by the side of the palace stand an oak , and on the oak sit a falcon bright .
Down fly the Falcon from the oak , smite upon the ground , turn into a brave youth , and cry aloud : ` Ha , dear brother-in-law !
how deal the Lord with you ? '
Out come run the Princess Marya , joyfully greet her brother Ivan , and begin inquire after his health , and tell him all about herself .
The Prince spend three day with them ; then he say : ' I can not abide with you ; I must go in search of my wife , the fair Princess Marya Morevna . '
` Hard will it be for you to find her , ' answer the Falcon .
` At all event leave with u your silver spoon .
We will look at it and remember you . '
So Prince Ivan leave his silver spoon at the Falcon 's , and go on his way again .
On he go one day , on he go another day , and by the dawn of the third day he saw a palace still grander than the former one and hard by the palace stand an oak , and on the oak sit an eagle .
Down fly the Eagle from the oak , smite upon the ground , turn into a brave youth , and cry aloud : ` Rise up , Princess Olga !
Hither come our brother dear ! '
The Princess Olga immediately run to meet him , and begin kiss him and embrace him , ask after his health , and tell him all about herself .
With them Prince Ivan stop three day ; then he say : ' I can not stay here any long .
I be go to look for my wife , the fair Princess Marya Morevna . '
` Hard will it be for you to find her , ' reply the Eagle .
` Leave with u a silver fork .
We will look at it and remember you . '
He leave a silver fork behind , and go his way .
He travel one day , he travel two day ; at daybreak on the third day he saw a palace grander than the first two , and near the palace stand an oak , and on the oak sit a raven .
Down fly the Raven from the oak , smite upon the ground , turn into a brave youth , and cry aloud : ` Princess Anna , come forth quickly I our brother be come . '
Out run the Princess Anna , greet him joyfully , and begin kiss and embrace him , ask after his health and tell him all about herself .
Prince Ivan stay with them three day ; then he say : ` Farewell !
I be go to look for my wife , the fair Princess Marya Morevna . '
` Hard will it be for you to find her , ' reply the Raven .
` Anyhow , leave your silver snuff-box with u .
We will look at it and remember you . '
The Prince hand over his silver snuff-box , take his leave , and go his way .
One day he go , another day he go , and on the third day he come to where Marya Morevna be .
She catch sight of her love , fling her arm around his neck , burst into tear , and exclaim : ` Oh , Prince Ivan !
why do you disobey me and go look into the closet and let out Koshchei the Deathless ? '
` Forgive me , Marya Morevna !
Remember not the past ; much well fly with me while Koshchei the Deathless be out of sight .
Perhaps he wo n't catch u . '
So they get ready and flee .
Now Koshchei be out hunting .
Towards even he be return home , when his good steed stumble beneath him .
` Why stumblest thou , sorry jade ?
Scentest thou some ill ? '
The steed reply : ` Prince Ivan have come and carry off Marya Morevna . '
` Is it possible to catch them ? '
` It be possible to sow wheat , to wait till it grow up , to reap it and thresh it , to grind it to flour , to make five pie of it , to eat those pie , and then to start in pursuit -- and even then to be in time . '
Koshchei gallop off and catch up Prince Ivan .
` Now , ' say he , ` this time I will forgive you , in return for your kindness in give me water to drink .
And a second time I will forgive you ; but the third time beware !
I will cut you to bits . '
Then he take Marya Morevna from him , and carry her off .
But Prince Ivan sit down on a stone and burst into tear .
He weep and weep -- and then return back again to Marya Morevna .
Now Koshchei the Deathless happen not to be at home .
` Let u fly , Marya Morevna ! '
` Ah , Prince Ivan !
he will catch u . '
` Suppose he do catch u .
At all event we shall have spend an hour or two together . '
So they get ready and flee .
As Koshchei the Deathless be return home , his good steed stumble beneath him .
` Why stumblest thou , sorry jade ?
Scentest thou some ill ? '
` Prince Ivan have come and carry off Marya Morevna . '
` Is it possible to catch them ? '
` It be possible to sow barley , to wait till it grow up , to reap it and thresh it , to brew beer , to drink ourselves drink on it , to sleep our fill , and then to set off in pursuit -- and yet to be in time . '
Koshchei gallop off , catch up Prince Ivan : ` Did n't I tell you that you should not see Marya Morevna any more than your own ear ? '
And he take her away and carry her off home with him .
Prince Ivan be leave there alone .
He weep and weep ; then he go back again after Marya Morevna .
Koshchei happen to be away from home at that moment .
` Let u fly , Marya Morevna ! '
` Ah , Prince Ivan !
he be sure to catch u and hew you in piece . '
` Let him hew away !
I can not live without you .
So they get ready and flee .
Koshchei the Deathless be return home when his good steed stumble beneath him .
` Why stumblest thou ?
Scentest thou any ill ? '
` Prince Ivan have come and have carry off Marya Morevna . '
Koshchei gallop off , catch Prince Ivan , chop him into little piece , put them into a barrel , smear it with pitch and bind it with iron hoop , and fling it into the blue sea .
But Marya Morevna he carry off home .
At that very time the silver article turn black which Prince Ivan have leave with his brother-in-law .
` Ah ! '
say they , ` the evil be accomplished sure enough ! '
Then the Eagle hurry to the blue sea , catch hold of the barrel , and drag it ashore ; the Falcon fly away for the Water of Life , and the Raven for the Water of Death .
Afterwards they all three meet , break open the barrel , take out the remains of Prince Ivan , wash them , and put them together in fit order .
The Raven sprinkle them with the Water of Death -- the piece join together , the body become whole .
The Falcon sprinkle it with the Water of Life -- Prince Ivan shudder , stand up , and say : ` Ah !
what a time I 've be sleep ! '
` You 'd have go on sleep a good deal longer if it have n't be for u , ' reply his brother-in-law .
` Now come and pay u a visit . '
` Not so , brother ; I shall go and look for Marya Morevna . '
And when he have find her , he say to her : ` Find out from Koshchei the Deathless whence he get so good a steed . '
So Marya Morevna choose a favourable moment , and begin ask Koshchei about it .
Koshchei reply : ` Beyond thrice nine land , in the thirtieth kingdom , on the other side of the fiery river , there live a Baba Yaga .
She have so good a mare that she fly right round the world on it every day .
And she have many other splendid mare .
I watch her herd for three day without lose a single mare , and in return for that the Baba Yaga give me a foal . '
` But how do you get across the fiery river ? '
` Why , I 've a handkerchief of this kind -- when I wave it thrice on the right hand , there spring up a very lofty bridge , and the fire can not reach it . '
Marya Morevna listen to all this , and repeat it to Prince Ivan , and she carry off the handkerchief and give it to him .
So he manage to get across the fiery river , and then go on to the Baba Yaga 's .
Long go he on without get anything either to eat or to drink .
At last he come across an outlandish bird and it young one .
Says Prince Ivan : ` I 'll eat one of these chicken . '
` Do n't eat it , Prince Ivan ! '
begs the outlandish bird ; ` some time or other I 'll do you a good turn . '
He go on farther and saw a hive of bee in the forest .
` I 'll get a bit of honeycomb , ' say he .
` Do n't disturb my honey , Prince Ivan ! '
exclaim the queen-bee ; ` some time or other I 'll do you a good turn . '
So he do n't disturb it , but go on .
Presently there meet him a lioness with her cub .
` Anyhow , I 'll eat this lion cub , ' say he ; ` I 'm so hungry I feel quite unwell ! '
` Please let u alone , Prince Ivan ! '
begs the lioness ; ` some time or other I 'll do you a good turn . '
` Very well ; have it your own way , ' say he .
Hungry and faint he wander on , walk far and far , and at last come to where stood the house of the Baba Yaga .
Round the house be set twelve pole in a circle , and on each of eleven of these pole be stick a human head ; the twelfth alone remain unoccupied .
` Hail , granny ! '
` Hail , Prince Ivan !
wherefore have you come ?
Is it of your own accord , or on compulsion ? ' '
I have come to earn from you an heroic steed . '
` So be it , Prince !
You wo n't have to serve a year with me , but just three day .
If you take good care of my mare , I 'll give you an heroic steed .
But if you do n't -- why , then you must n't be annoy at find your head stick on top of the last pole up there . '
Prince Ivan agree to these term .
The Baba Yaga give him food and drink , and bid him set about his business .
But the moment he have drive the mare afield , they cock up their tail , and away they tear across the meadow in all direction .
Before the Prince have time to look round they be all out of sight .
Thereupon he begin to weep and to disquiet himself , and then he sit down upon a stone and go to sleep .
But when the sun be near it set the outlandish bird come fly up to him , and awaken him , say : ` Arise , Prince Ivan !
The mare be at home now . '
The Prince arose and return home .
There the Baba Yaga be storm and rag at her mare , and shrieking : ` Whatever do ye come home for ? '
` How could we help come home ? '
say they .
` There come fly bird from every part of the world , and all but peck our eye out . '
` Well , well !
to-morrow do n't go gallop over the meadow , but disperse amid the thick forest . '
Prince Ivan sleep all night .
In the morning the Baba Yaga say to him : ` Mind , Prince !
if you do n't take good care of the mare , if you lose merely one of them -- your bold head will be stick on that pole ! '
He drive the mare afield .
Immediately they cock up their tail and disperse among the thick forest .
Again do the Prince sit down on the stone , weep and weep , and then go to sleep .
The sun go down behind the forest .
Up come run the lioness .
` Arise , Prince Ivan !
The mare be all collect . '
Prince Ivan arose and go home .
More than ever do the Baba Yaga storm at her mare and shriek : ` Whatever do ye come back home for ? '
` How could we help come back ?
Beasts of prey come run at u from all part of the world , and all but tear u utterly to piece . '
` Well , to-morrow run off into the blue sea . '
Again do Prince Ivan sleep through the night .
Next morning the Baba Yaga send him forth to watch the mare .
` If you do n't take good care of them , ' say she , ` your bold head will be stick on that pole ! '
He drive the mare afield .
Immediately they cock up their tail , disappear from sight , and flee into the blue sea .
There they stand , up to their neck in water .
Prince Ivan sit down on the stone , wept , and fell asleep .
But when the sun have set behind the forest , up come fly a bee , and say : ` Arise , Prince !
The mare be all collect .
But when you get home , do n't let the Baba Yaga set eye on you , but go into the stable and hide behind the manger .
There you will find a sorry colt roll in the muck .
Do you steal it , and at the dead of night ride away from the house . '
Prince Ivan arose , slip into the stable , and lay down behind the manger , while the Baba Yaga be storm away at her mare and shrieking : ` Why do ye come back ? '
` How could we help come back ?
There come fly bee in countless number from all part of the world , and begin sting u on all side till the blood come ! '
The Baba Yaga go to sleep .
In the dead of the night Prince Ivan steal the sorry colt , saddle it , jump on it back , and gallop away to the fiery river .
When he come to that river he wave the handkerchief three time on the right hand , and suddenly , spring goodness know whence , there hung across the river , high in the air , a splendid bridge .
The Prince rode across the bridge and wave the handkerchief twice only on the left hand ; there remain across the river a thin , ever so thin a bridge !
When the Baba Yaga get up in the morning the sorry colt be not to be see !
Off she set in pursuit .
At full speed do she fly in her iron mortar , urge it on with the pestle , sweep away her trace with the broom .
She dash up to the fiery river , give a glance , and say , ' A capital bridge ! '
She drive on to the bridge , but have only get half-way when the bridge break in two , and the Baba Yaga go flop into the river .
There truly do she meet with a cruel death !
Prince Ivan fatten up the colt in the green meadow , and it turn into a wondrous steed .
Then he ride to where Marya Morevna be .
She come run out , and fling herself on his neck , cry : ` By what mean have God bring you back to life ? '
` Thus and thus , ' say he .
` Now come along with me . ' '
I be afraid , Prince Ivan !
If Koshchei catch u you will be cut in piece again . '
` No , he wo n't catch u !
I have a splendid heroic steed now ; it fly just like a bird . '
So they get on it back and rode away .
Koshchei the Deathless be return home when his horse stumble beneath him .
` What art thou stumble for , sorry jade ?
Dost thou scent any ill ? '
` Prince Ivan have come and carry off Marya Morevna . '
` Can we catch them ? '
` God know !
Prince Ivan have a horse now which be good than I. ' ` Well , I ca n't stand it , ' say Koshchei the Deathless . '
I will pursue . '
After a time he come up with Prince Ivan , light on the ground , and be go to chop him up with his sharp sword .
But at that moment Prince Ivan 's horse smote Koshchei the Deathless full swing with it hoof , and crack his skull , and the Prince make an end of him with a club .
Afterwards the Prince heap up a pile of wood , set fire to it , burn Koshchei the Deathless on the pyre , and scatter his ash to the wind .
Then Marya Morevna mount Koshchei 's horse and Prince Ivan get on his own , and they ride away to visit first the Raven , and then the Eagle , and then the Falcon .
Wherever they go they meet with a joyful greeting .
` Ah , Prince Ivan !
why , we never expect to see you again .
Well , it be n't for nothing that you give yourself so much trouble .
Such a beauty a Marya Morevna one might search for all the world over -- and never find one like her ! '
And so they visit , and they feast ; and afterwards they go off to their own realm .
-LRB- 3 -RRB- -LRB- 3 -RRB- Ralston .
THE BLACK THIEF AND KNIGHT OF THE GLEN .
IN time of yore there be a King and a Queen in the south of Ireland who have three son , all beautiful child ; but the Queen , their mother , sicken unto death when they be yet very young , which cause great grief throughout the Court , particularly to the King , her husband , who could in no wise be comfort .
Seeing that death be draw near her , she call the King to her and speak a follow : ' I be now go to leave you , and a you be young and in your prime , of course after my death you will marry again .
Now all the request I ask of you be that you will build a tower in an island in the sea , wherein you will keep your three son until they be come of age and fit to do for themselves ; so that they may not be under the power or jurisdiction of any other woman .
Neglect not to give them education suitable to their birth , and let them be train up to every exercise and pastime requisite for king 's son to learn .
This be all I have to say , so farewell . '
The King have scarce time , with tear in his eye , to assure her she should be obey in everything , when she , turn herself in her bed , with a smile give up the ghost .
Never be great mourn see than be throughout the Court and the whole kingdom ; for a good woman than the Queen , to rich and poor , be not to be find in the world .
She be inter with great pomp and magnificence , and the King , her husband , become in a manner inconsolable for the loss of her .
However , he cause the tower to be build and his son place in it , under proper guardian , accord to his promise .
In process of time the lord and knight of the kingdom counsel the King -LRB- a he be young -RRB- to live no longer a he have do , but to take a wife ; which counsel prevailing , they choose him a rich and beautiful princess to be his consort -- a neighbouring King 's daughter , of whom he be very fond .
Not long after , the Queen have a fine son , which cause great feasting and rejoicing at the Court , insomuch that the late Queen , in a manner , be entirely forget .
That fare well , and King and Queen live happy together for several year .
At length the Queen , have some business with the hen-wife , go herself to her , and , after a long conference pass , be take leave of her , when the hen-wife prayed that if ever she should come back to her again she might break her neck .
The Queen , greatly incense at such a dare insult from one of her mean subject , demand immediately the reason , or she would have her put to death .
` It be worth your while , madam , ' say the hen-wife , ` to pay me well for it , for the reason I pray so on you concern you much . '
` What must I pay you ? '
ask the Queen .
` You must give me , ' say she , ` the full of a pack of wool , and I have an ancient crock which you must fill with butter , likewise a barrel which you must fill for me full of wheat . '
` How much wool will it take to the pack ? '
say the Queen .
` It will take seven herd of sheep , ' say she , ` and their increase for seven year . '
` How much butter will it take to fill your crock ? '
` Seven dairy , ' say she , ` and their increase for seven year . '
` And how much will it take to fill the barrel you have ? '
say the Queen .
` It will take the increase of seven barrel of wheat for seven year . '
` That be a great quantity , ' say the Queen ; ` but the reason must be extraordinary , and before I want it , I will give you all you demand . '
` Well , ' say the hen-wife , ` it be because you be so stupid that you do n't observe or find out those affair that be so dangerous and hurtful to yourself and your child . '
` What be that ? '
say the Queen .
` Why , ' say she , ` the King your husband have three fine son he have by the late Queen , whom he keep shut up in a tower until they come of age , intend to divide the kingdom between them , and let your son push his fortune ; now , if you do n't find some mean of destroy them ; your child and perhaps yourself will be leave desolate in the end . '
` And what would you advise me to do ? '
say she ; ' I be wholly at a loss in what manner to act in this affair . '
` You must make know to the King , ' say the hen-wife , ` that you hear of his son , and wonder greatly that he conceal them all this time from you ; tell him you wish to see them , and that it be full time for them to be liberate , and that you would be desirous he would bring them to the Court .
The King will then do so , and there will be a great feast prepare on that account , and also diversion of every sort to amuse the people ; and in these sport , ' say she , ` ask the King 's son to play a game at card with you , which they will not refuse .
Now , ' say the hen-wife , ` you must make a bargain , that if you win they must do whatever you command them , and if they win , that you must do whatever they command you to do ; this bargain must be make before the assembly , and here be a pack of card , ' say she , ` that I be think you will not lose by . '
The Queen immediately take the card , and , after return the hen-wife thanks for her kind instruction , go back to the palace , where she be quite uneasy until she get speak to the King in regard of his child ; at last she break it off to him in a very polite and engaging manner , so that he could see no muster or design in it .
He readily consent to her desire , and his son be send for to the tower , who gladly come to Court , rejoice that they be free from such confinement .
They be all very handsome , and very expert in all art and exercise , so that they gain the love and esteem of all that have see them .
The Queen , more jealous with them than ever , think it an age until all the feasting and rejoicing be over , that she might get make her proposal , depend greatly on the power of the hen-wife 's card .
At length this royal assembly begin to sport and play at all kind of diversion , and the Queen very cunningly challenge the three Princes to play at card with her , make bargain with them a she have be instruct .
They accept the challenge , and the eldest son and she play the first game , which she win ; then the second son play , and she win that game likewise ; the third son and she then play the last game , and he win it , which sorely grieve her that she have not him in her power as well a the rest , be by far the handsome and most beloved of the three .
However , everyone be anxious to hear the Queen 's command in regard to the two Princes , not think that she have any ill design in her head against them .
Whether it be the hen-wife instructed her , or whether it be from her own knowledge , I can not tell ; but she give out they must go and bring her the Knight of the Glen 's wild Steed of Bells , or they should lose their head .
The young Princes be not in the least concerned , not know what they have to do ; but the whole Court be amaze at her demand , know very well that it be impossible for them ever to get the steed , a all that ever seek him perish in the attempt .
However , they could not retract the bargain , and the young Prince be desire to tell what demand he have on the Queen , a he have win his game .
` My brother , ' say he , ` be now go to travel , and , a I understand , a perilous journey wherein they know not what road to take or what may happen them .
I be resolve , therefore , not to stay here , but to go with them , let what will betide ; and I request and command , accord to my bargain , that the Queen shall stand on the high tower of the palace until we come back -LRB- or find out that we be certainly dead -RRB- , with nothing but sheaf corn for her food and cold water for her drink , if it should be for seven year and long . '
All thing be now fix , the three prince depart the Court in search of the Knight of the Glen 's palace , and travel along the road they come up with a man who be a little lame , and seem to be somewhat advanced in year ; they soon fell into discourse , and the young of the prince ask the stranger his name , or what be the reason he wear so remarkable a black cap a he saw on him . '
I be call , ' say he , ` the Thief of Sloan , and sometimes the Black Thief from my cap ; ` and so tell the prince the most of his adventure , he ask him again where they be bind for , or what they be about .
The prince , willing to gratify his request , tell him their affair from the beginning to the end .
` And now , ' say he , ` we be travel , and do not know whether we be on the right road or not . '
` Ah !
my brave fellow , ' say the Black Thief , ` you little know the danger you run .
I be after that steed myself these seven year , and can never steal him on account of a silk cover he have on him in the stable , with sixty bell fix to it , and whenever you approach the place he quickly observe it and shake himself ; which , by the sound of the bell , not only alarm the prince and his guard , but the whole country round , so that it be impossible ever to get him , and those that be so unfortunate a to be take by the Knight of the Glen be boil in a red-hot fiery furnace . '
` Bless me , ' say the young prince , ` what will we do ?
If we return without the steed we will lose our head , so I see we be ill fix on both side . '
` Well , ' say the Thief of Sloan , ` if it be my case I would rather die by the Knight than by the wicked Queen ; besides , I will go with you myself and show you the road , and whatever fortune you will have , I will take chance of the same . '
They return him sincere thanks for his kindness , and he , be well acquaint with the road , in a short time bring them within view of the knight 's castle .
` Now , ' say he , ` we must stay here till night come ; for I know all the way of the place , and if there be any chance for it , it be when they be all at rest ; for the steed be all the watch the knight keep there . '
Accordingly , in the dead hour of the night , the King 's three son and the Thief of Sloan attempt the Steed of Bells in order to carry him away , but before they could reach the stable the steed neigh most terribly and shake himself so , and the bell ring with such noise , that the knight and all his men be up in a moment .
The Black Thief and the King 's son think to make their escape , but they be suddenly surround by the knight 's guard and take prisoner ; where they be bring into that dismal part of the palace where the knight keep a furnace always boil , in which he throw all offender that ever come in his way , which in a few moment would entirely consume them .
` Audacious villain ! '
say the Knight of the Glen , ` how dare you attempt so bold an action a to steal my steed ?
See , now , the reward of your folly ; for your great punishment I will not boil you all together , but one after the other , so that he that survive may witness the dire affliction of his unfortunate companion . '
So say he order his servant to stir up the fire : ` We will boil the eldest-looking of these young men first , ' say he , ` and so on to the last , which will be this old champion with the black cap .
He seem to be the captain , and look as if he have come through many toil . ' '
I be a near death once a the prince be yet , ' say the Black Thief , ` and escape ; and so will he too . '
` No , you never be , ' say the knight ; ` for he be within two or three minute of his latter end . '
` But , ' say the Black Thief , ' I be within one moment of my death , and I be here yet . '
` How be that ? '
say the knight ; ' I would be glad to hear it , for it seem impossible . '
` If you think , sir knight , ' say the Black Thief , ` that the danger I be in surpasses that of this young man , will you pardon him his crime ? ' '
I will , ' say the knight , ` so go on with your story . ' '
I be , sir , ' say he , ' a very wild boy in my youth , and come through many distress ; once in particular , a I be on my rambling , I be benight and could find no lodging .
At length I come to an old kiln , and be much fatigue I go up and lay on the rib .
I have not be long there when I saw three witch come in with three bag of gold .
Each put their bag of gold under their head , a if to sleep .
I hear one of them say to the other that if the Black Thief come on them while they sleep , he would not leave them a penny .
I find by their discourse that everybody have get my name into their mouth , though I keep silent a death during their discourse .
At length they fell fast asleep , and then I steal softly down , and see some turf convenient , I place one under each of their head , and off I go , with their gold , as fast a I could . '
I have not go far , ' continue the Thief of Sloan , ` until I saw a grey-hound , a hare , and a hawk in pursuit of me , and begin to think it must be the witch that have take the shape in order that I might not escape them unseen either by land or water .
Seeing they do not appear in any formidable shape , I be more than once resolve to attack them , think that with my broad sword I could easily destroy them .
But consider again that it be perhaps still in their power to become alive again , I give over the attempt and climb with difficulty up a tree , bring my sword in my hand and all the gold along with me .
However , when they come to the tree they find what I have do , and make further use of their hellish art , one of them be change into a smith 's anvil and another into a piece of iron , of which the third soon make a hatchet .
Having the hatchet make , she fell to cut down the tree , and in the course of an hour it begin to shake with me .
At length it begin to bend , and I find that one or two blow at the most would put it down .
I then begin to think that my death be inevitable , consider that those who be capable of do so much would soon end my life ; but just a she have the stroke drawn that would terminate my fate , the cock crew , and the witch disappear , have resume their natural shape for fear of be know , and I get safe off with my bag of gold .
` Now , sir , ' say he to the Knight of the Glen , ` if that be not a great an adventure a ever you hear , to be within one blow of a hatchet of my end , and that blow even draw , and after all to escape , I leave it to yourself . '
` Well , I can not say but it be very extraordinary , ' say the Knight of the Glen , ` and on that account pardon this young man his crime ; so stir up the fire , till I boil this second one . '
` Indeed , ' say the Black Thief , ' I would fain think he would not die this time either . '
` How so ? '
say the knight ; ` it be impossible for him to escape . ' '
I escape death more wonderfully myself , ' say the Thief of Sloan , ` than if you have him ready to throw into the furnace , and I hope it will be the case with him likewise . '
` Why , have you be in another great danger ? '
say the knight . '
I would be glad to hear the story too , and if it be as wonderful a the last , I will pardon this young man a I do the other . '
` My way of living , sir , ' say the Black Thief , ` be not good , a I tell you before ; and be at a certain time fairly run out of cash , and meet with no enterprise worthy of notice , I be reduce to great strait .
At length a rich bishop die in the neighbourhood I be then in , and I hear he be inter with a great deal of jewel and rich robe upon him , all which I intend in a short time to be master of .
Accordingly that very night I set about it , and come to the place , I understand he be place at the further end of a long dark vault , which I slowly enter .
I have not go in far until I hear a foot come towards me with a quick pace , and although naturally bold and daring , yet , thinking of the deceased bishop and the crime I be engage in , I lose courage , and run towards the entrance of the vault .
I have retreat but a few pace when I observe , between me and the light , the figure of a tall black man stand in the entrance .
Being in great fear and not know how to pass , I fire a pistol at him , and he immediately fell across the entrance .
Perceiving he still retain the figure of a mortal man , I begin to imagine that it could not be the bishop 's ghost ; recover myself therefore from the fear I be in , I venture to the upper end of the vault , where I find a large bundle , and upon further examination I find that the corpse be already rifle , and that which I have take to be a ghost be no more than one of his own clergy .
I be then very sorry that I have the misfortune to kill him , but it then could not be help .
I take up the bundle that contain everything belonging to the corpse that be valuable , intend to take my departure from this melancholy abode ; but just a I come to the mouth of the entrance I saw the guard of the place come towards me , and distinctly hear them say that they would look in the vault , for that the Black Thief would think little of rob the corpse if he be anywhere in the place .
I do not then know in what manner to act , for if I be see I would surely lose my life , a everybody have a look-out at that time , and because there be no person bold enough to come in on me .
I know very well on the first sight of me that could be get , I would be shoot like a dog .
However , I have not time to lose .
I take and raise up the man which I have kill , a if he be stand on his foot , and I , crouch behind him , bore him up as well a I could , so that the guard readily saw him a they come up to the vault .
Seeing the man in black , one of the men cry that be the Black Thief , and , present his piece , fire at the man , at which I let him fall , and creep into a little dark corner myself , that be at the entrance of the place .
When they saw the man fall , they run all into the vault , and never stop until they be at the end of it , for fear , a I think , that there might be some others along with him that be kill .
But while they be busy inspect the corpse and the vault to see what they could miss , I slip out , and , once away , and still away ; but they never have the Black Thief in their power since . '
` Well , my brave fellow , ' say the Knight of the Glen , ' I see you have come through many danger : you have free these two prince by your story ; but I be sorry myself that this young prince have to suffer for all .
Now , if you could tell me something as wonderful a you have tell already , I would pardon him likewise ; I pity this youth and do not want to put him to death if I could help it . '
` That happen well , ' say the Thief of Sloan , ` for I like him best myself , and have reserve the most curious passage for the last on his account . '
` Well , then , ' say the knight , ` let u hear it . ' '
I be one day on my travel , ' say the Black Thief , ` and I come into a large forest , where I wander a long time , and could not get out of it .
At length I come to a large castle , and fatigue oblige me to call in the same , where I find a young woman and a child sit on her knee , and she cry .
I ask her what make her cry , and where the lord of the castle be , for I wonder greatly that I saw no stir of servant or any person about the place . '
`` It be well for you , '' say the young woman , `` that the lord of this castle be not at home at present ; for he be a monstrous giant , with but one eye on his forehead , who live on human flesh .
He bring me this child , '' say she , `` I do not know where he get it , and order me to make it into a pie , and I can not help cry at the command . '' '
I tell her that if she know of any place convenient that I could leave the child safely I would do it , rather than it should be kill by such a monster .
` She tell me of a house a distance off where I would get a woman who would take care of it .
`` But what will I do in regard of the pie ? '' '
`` Cut a finger off it , '' say I , `` and I will bring you in a young wild pig out of the forest , which you may dress a if it be the child , and put the finger in a certain place , that if the giant doubt anything about it you may know where to turn it over at the first , and when he see it he will be fully satisfy that the pie be make of the child . ''
` She agree to the scheme I propose , and , cut off the child 's finger , by her direction I soon have it at the house she tell me of , and bring her the little pig in the place of it .
She then make ready the pie , and after eating and drinking heartily myself , I be just take my leave of the young woman when we observe the giant come through the castle gate . '
`` Bless me , '' say she , `` what will you do now ?
Run away and lie down among the dead body that he have in the room -LRB- show me the place -RRB- , and strip off your clothes that he may not know you from the rest if he have occasion to go that way . '' '
I take her advice , and lay myself down among the rest , a if dead , to see how he would behave .
The first thing I hear be him call for his pie .
When she set it down before him he swear it smell like swine 's flesh , but know where to find the finger , she immediately turn it up , which fairly convince him of the contrary .
The pie only serve to sharpen his appetite , and I hear him sharpen his knife and say he must have a collop or two , for he be not near satisfy .
But what be my terror when I hear the giant groping among the body , and , fancy myself , cut the half of my hip off , and take it with him to be roast .
You may be certain I be in great pain , but the fear of be kill prevent me from make any complaint .
However , when he have eat all he begin to drink hot liquor in great abundance , so that in a short time he could not hold up his head , but throw himself on a large creel he have make for the purpose , and fell fast asleep .
When I hear him snore , a I be I go up and cause the woman to bind my wound with a handkerchief ; and , take the giant 's spit , redden it in the fire , and run it through the eye , but be not able to kill him .
` However , I leave the spit stick in his head , and take to my heel ; but I soon find he be in pursuit of me , although blind ; and have an enchanted ring he throw it at me , and it fell on my big toe and remain fasten to it .
` The giant then call to the ring , where it be , and to my great surprise it make him answer on my foot ; and he , guide by the same , make a leap at me which I have the good luck to observe , and fortunately escape the danger .
However , I find run be of no use in save me , as long a I have the ring on my foot ; so I take my sword and cut off the toe it be fasten on , and throw both into a large fish-pond that be convenient .
The giant call again to the ring , which by the power of enchantment always make him answer ; but he , not know what I have do , imagine it be still on some part of me , and make a violent leap to seize me , when he go into the pond , over head and ear , and be drown .
Now , sir knight , ' say the Thief of Sloan , ` you see what danger I come through and always escape ; but , indeed , I be lame for the want of my toe ever since . '
` My lord and master , ' say an old woman that be listen all the time , ` that story be but too true , a I well know , for I be the very woman that be in the giant 's castle , and you , my lord , the child that I be to make into a pie ; and this be the very man that save your life , which you may know by the want of your finger that be take off , a you have hear , to deceive the giant . '
The Knight of the Glen , greatly surprise at what he have hear the old woman tell , and know he want his finger from his childhood , begin to understand that the story be true enough .
` And be this my deliverer ? '
say he . '
O brave fellow , I not only pardon you all , but will keep you with myself while you live , where you shall feast like prince , and have every attendance that I have myself . '
They all return thanks on their knee , and the Black Thief tell him the reason they attempt to steal the Steed of Bells , and the necessity they be under in go home .
` Well , ' say the Knight of the Glen , ` if that 's the case I bestow you my steed rather than this brave fellow should die ; so you may go when you please , only remember to call and see me betimes , that we may know each other well . '
They promise they would , and with great joy they set off for the King their father 's palace , and the Black Thief along with them .
The wicked Queen be stand all this time on the tower , and , hear the bell ring at a great distance off , know very well it be the prince come home , and the steed with them , and through spite and vexation precipitate herself from the tower and be shatter to piece .
The three prince live happy and well during their father 's reign , and always keep the Black Thief along with them ; but how they do after the old King 's death be not know .
-LRB- 4 -RRB- -LRB- 4 -RRB- The Hibernian Tales .
THE MASTER THIEF THERE be once upon a time a husbandman who have three son .
He have no property to bequeath to them , and no mean of put them in the way of get a living , and do not know what to do , so he say that they have his leave to take to anything they most fancy , and go to any place they best like .
He would gladly accompany them for some part of their way , he say , and that he do .
He go with them till they come to a place where three road meet , and there each of them take his own way , and the father bid them farewell and return to his own home again .
What become of the two elder I have never be able to discover , but the young go both far and wide .
It come to pass , one night , a he be go through a great wood , that a terrible storm come on .
It blow so hard and rain so heavily that he could scarcely keep his eye open , and before he be aware of it he have get quite out of the track , and could neither find road nor path .
But he go on , and at last he saw a light far away in the wood .
Then he think he must try and get to it , and after a long , long time he do reach it .
There be a large house , and the fire be burn so brightly inside that he could tell that the people be not in bed .
So he go in , and inside there be an old woman who be busy about some work .
` Good evening , mother ! '
say the youth .
` Good evening ! '
say the old woman .
` Hutetu !
it be terrible weather outside to-night , ' say the young fellow .
` Indeed it be , ' say the old woman .
` Can I sleep here , and have shelter for the night ? '
ask the youth .
` It would n't be good for you to sleep here , ' say the old hag , ` for if the people of the house come home and find you , they will kill both you and me . '
` What kind of people be they then , who dwell here ? '
say the youth .
` Oh !
robber , and rabble of that sort , ' say the old woman ; ` they steal me away when I be little , and I have have to keep house for them ever since . ' '
I still think I will go to bed , all the same , ' say the youth .
` No matter what happen , I 'll not go out to-night in such weather a this . '
` Well , then , it will be the bad for yourself , ' say the old woman .
The young man lay down in a bed which stand near , but he dare not go to sleep : and it be well that he do n't , for the robber come , and the old woman say that a young fellow who be a stranger have come there , and she have not be able to get him to go away again .
` Did you see if he have any money ? '
say the robber .
` He 's not one to have money , he be a tramp !
If he have a few clothes to his back , that be all . '
Then the robber begin to mutter to each other apart about what they should do with him , whether they should murder him , or what else they should do .
In the meantime the boy get up and begin to talk to them , and ask them if they do not want a man-servant , for he could find pleasure enough in serve them .
` Yes , ' say they , ` if you have a mind to take to the trade that we follow , you may have a place here . '
` It 's all the same to me what trade I follow , ' say the youth , ` for when I come away from home my father give me leave to take to any trade I fancy . '
` Have you a fancy for steal , then ? '
say the robber .
` Yes , ' say the boy , for he think that be a trade which would not take long to learn .
Not very far off there dwell a man who have three ox , one of which he be to take to the town to sell .
The robber have hear of this , so they tell the youth that if he be able to steal the ox from him on the way , without his knowing , and without do him any harm , he should have leave to be their servant-man .
So the youth set off , take with him a pretty shoe with a silver buckle that be lie about in the house .
He put this in the road by which the man must go with his ox , and then go into the wood and hid himself under a bush .
When the man come up he at once saw the shoe .
` That 's a brave shoe , ' say he .
` If I have but the fellow to it , I would carry it home with me , and then I should put my old woman into a good humour for once . '
For he have a wife who be so cross and ill-tempered that the time between the beating she give him be very short .
But then he bethink himself that he could do nothing with one shoe if he have not the fellow to it , so he journey onwards and let it lie where it be .
Then the youth pick up the shoe and hurry off away through the wood as fast a he be able , to get in front of the man , and then put the shoe in the road before him again .
When the man come with the ox and saw the shoe , he be quite vex at have be so stupid a to leave the fellow to it lie where it be , instead of bring it on with him . '
I will just run back again and fetch it now , ' he say to himself , ` and then I shall take back a pair of good shoe to the old woman , and she may perhaps throw a kind word to me for once . '
So he go and search and search for the other shoe for a long , long time , but no shoe be to be find , and at last he be force to go back with the one which he have .
In the meantime the youth have take the ox and go off with it .
When the man get there and find that his ox be go , he begin to weep and wail , for he be afraid that when his old woman get to know she would be the death of him .
But all at once it come into his head to go home and get the other ox , and drive it to the town , and take good care that his old wife know nothing about it .
So he do this ; he go home and take the ox without his wife 's know about it , and go on his way to the town with it .
But the robber they know it well , because they get out their magic .
So they tell the youth that if he could take this ox also without the man know anything about it , and without do him any hurt , he should then be on an equality with them .
` Well , that will not be a very hard thing to do , ' think the youth .
This time he take with him a rope and put it under his arm and tie himself up to a tree , which hang over the road that the man would have to take .
So the man come with his ox , and when he saw the body hang there he felt a little queer .
` What a hard lot yours must have be to make you hang yourself ! '
say he .
` Ah , well !
you may hang there for me ; I ca n't breathe life into you again . '
So on he go with his ox .
Then the youth spring down from the tree , ran by a short cut and get before him , and once more hung himself up on a tree in the road before the man .
` How I should like to know if you really be so sick at heart that you hang yourself there , or if it be only a hobgoblin that 's before me ! '
say the man .
` Ah , well !
you may hang there for me , whether you be a hobgoblin or not , ' and on he go with his ox .
Once more the youth do just a he have do twice already ; jump down from the tree , ran by a short cut through the wood , and again hang himself in the very middle of the road before him .
But when the man once more saw this he say to himself , ` What a bad business this be !
Can they all have be so heavy-hearted that they have all three hang themselves ?
No , I ca n't believe that it be anything but witchcraft !
But I will know the truth , ' he say ; ` if the two others be still hang there it be true but if they be not it 's nothing else but witchcraft . '
So he tie up his ox and run back to see if they really be hang there .
While he be go , and look up at every tree a he go , the youth leap down and take his ox and go off with it .
Any one may easily imagine what a fury the man fell into when he come back and saw that his ox be go .
He weep and he rag , but at last he take comfort and tell himself that the best thing to do be to go home and take the third ox , without let his wife know anything about it , and then try to sell it so well that he get a good sum of money for it .
So he go home and take the third ox , and drive it off without his wife know anything about it .
But the robber know all about it , and they tell the youth that if he could steal this a he have steal the two others , he should be master of the whole troop .
So the youth set out and go to the wood , and when the man be come along with the ox he begin to bellow loudly , just like a great ox somewhere inside the wood .
When the man heard that he be right glad , for he fancy he recognise the voice of his big bullock , and think that now he should find both of them again .
So he tie up the third , and run away off the road to look for them in the wood .
In the meantime the youth go away with the third ox .
When the man return and find that he have lose that too , he fell into such a rage that there be no bound to it .
He weep and lament , and for many day he do not dare to go home again , for he be afraid that the old woman would slay him outright .
The robber , also , be not very well please at this , for they be force to own that the youth be at the head of them all .
So one day they make up their mind to set to work to do something which it be not in his power to accomplish , and they all take to the road together , and leave him at home alone .
When they be well out of the house , the first thing that he do be to drive the ox out on the road , whereupon they all run home again to the man from whom he have steal them , and right glad be the husbandman to see them .
Then he bring out all the horse the robber have , and load them with the most valuable thing which he could find -- vessel of gold and of silver , and clothes and other magnificent thing -- and then he tell the old woman to greet the robber from him and thank them from him , and say that he have go away , and that they would have a great deal of difficulty in find him again , and with that he drive the horse out of the courtyard .
After a long , long time he come to the road on which he be travel when he come to the robber .
And when he have get very near home , and be in sight of the house where his father live , he put on a uniform which he have find among the thing he have take from the robber , and which be make just like a general 's , and drive into the yard just a if he be a great man .
Then he enter the house and ask if he could find a lodging there .
` No , indeed you ca n't ! '
say his father .
` How could I possibly be able to lodge such a great gentleman a you ?
It be all that I can do to find clothes and bed for myself , and wretched they be . '
` You be always a hard man , ' say the youth , ` and hard you be still if you refuse to let your own son come into your house . '
` Are you my son ? '
say the man .
` Do you not know me again then ? '
say the youth .
Then he recognise him and say , ` But what trade have you take to that have make you such a great man in so short a time ? '
` Oh , that I will tell you , ' answer the youth .
` You say that I might take to anything I like , so I apprentice myself to some thief and robber , and now I have serve my time and have become Master Thief . '
Now the Governor of the province live by his father 's cottage , and this Governor have such a large house and so much money that he do not even know how much it be , and he have a daughter too who be both pretty and dainty , and good and wise .
So the Master Thief be determine to have her to wife , and tell his father that he be to go to the Governor , and ask for his daughter for him .
` If he ask what trade I follow , you may say that I be a Master Thief , ' say he . '
I think you must be crazy , ' say the man , ` for you ca n't be in your sens if you think of anything so foolish . '
` You must go to the Governor and beg for his daughter -- there be no help , ' say the youth .
` But I dare not go to the Governor and say this .
He be so rich and have so much wealth of all kind , ' say the man .
` There be no help for it , ' say the Master Thief ; ` go you must , whether you like it or not .
If I ca n't get you to go by use good word , I will soon make you go with bad one . '
But the man be still unwilling , so the Master Thief follow him , threaten him with a great birch stick , till he go weep and wail through the door to the Governor of the province .
` Now , my man , and what 's amiss with you ? '
say the Governor .
So he tell him that he have three son who have go away one day , and how he have give them permission to go where they choose , and take to whatsoever work they fancy .
` Now , ' he say , ` the young of them have come home , and have threaten me till I have come to you to ask for your daughter for him , and I be to say that he be a Master Thief , ' and again the man fell a-weeping and lamenting .
` Console yourself , my man , ' say the Governor , laugh .
` You may tell him from me that he must first give me some proof of this .
If he can steal the joint off the spit in the kitchen on Sunday , when every one of u be watch it , he shall have my daughter .
Will you tell him that ? '
The man do tell him , and the youth think it would be easy enough to do it .
So he set himself to work to catch three hare alive , put them in a bag , clad himself in some old rag so that he look so poor and wretched that it be quite pitiable to see him , and in this guise on Sunday forenoon he sneak into the passage with his bag , like any beggar boy .
The Governor himself and every one in the house be in the kitchen , keep watch over the joint .
While they be do this the youth let one of the hare slip out of his bag , and off it set and begin to run round the yard .
` Just look at that hare , ' say the people in the kitchen , and want to go out and catch it .
The Governor saw it too , but say , ` Oh , let it go !
it 's no use to think of catch a hare when it 's run away . '
It be not long before the youth let another hare out , and the people in the kitchen saw this too , and think that it be the same .
So again they want to go out and catch it , but the Governor again tell them that it be of no use to try .
Very soon afterwards , however , the youth let slip the third hare , and it set off and run round and round the courtyard .
The people in the kitchen saw this too , and believe that it be still the same hare that be run about , so they want to go out and catch it .
` It 's a remarkably fine hare ! '
say the Governor .
` Come and let u see if we can get hold of it . '
So out he go , and the others with him , and away go the hare , and they after it , in real earnest .
In the meantime , however , the Master Thief take the joint and run off with it , and whether the Governor get any roast meat for his dinner that day I know not , but I know that he have no roast hare , though he chase it till he be both hot and tired .
At noon come the Priest , and when the Governor have tell him of the trick play by the Master Thief there be no end to the ridicule he cast on the Governor .
` For my part , ' say the Priest , ' I ca n't imagine myself be make a fool of by such a fellow a that ! '
` Well , I advise you to be careful , ' say the Governor , ` for he may be with you before you be at all aware . '
But the Priest repeat what he have say , and mock the Governor for have allow himself to be make such a fool of .
Later in the afternoon the Master Thief come and want to have the Governor 's daughter a he have promise .
` You must first give some more sample of your skill , ' say the Governor , try to speak him fair , ` for what you do to-day be no such very great thing after all .
Could n't you play off a really good trick on the Priest ?
for he be sit inside there and call me a fool for have let myself be take in by such a fellow a you . '
` Well , it would n't be very hard to do that , ' say the Master Thief .
So he dress himself up like a bird , and throw a great white sheet over himself ; break off a goose 's wing , and set them on his back ; and in this attire climb into a great maple tree which stand in the Priest 's garden .
So when the Priest return home in the even the youth begin to cry , ` Father Lawrence !
Father Lawrence !
` for the Priest be call Father Lawrence .
` Who be call me ? '
say the Priest . '
I be an angel send to announce to thee that because of thy piety thou shalt be take away alive into heaven , ' say the Master Thief .
` Wilt thou hold thyself in readiness to travel away next Monday night ?
for then will I come and fetch thee , and bear thee away with me in a sack , and thou must lay all thy gold and silver , and whatsoever thou may ` st posse of this world 's wealth , in a heap in thy best parlour . '
So Father Lawrence fell down on his knee before the angel and thank him , and the following Sunday he preach a farewell sermon , and give out that an angel have come down into the large maple tree in his garden , and have announce to him that , because of his righteousness , he should be take up alive into heaven , and a he thus preach and tell them this everyone in the church , old or young , wept .
On Monday night the Master Thief once more come a an angel , and before the Priest be put into the sack he fell on his knee and thank him ; but no sooner be the Priest safely inside it than the Master Thief begin to drag him away over stock and stone .
` Oh !
oh !
` cry the Priest in the sack .
` Where be you take me ? '
` This be the way to heaven .
The way to heaven be not an easy one , ' say the Master Thief , and drag him along till he all but kill him .
At last he fling him into the Governor 's goose-house , and the geese begin to hiss and peck at him , till he felt more dead than alive .
` Oh !
oh !
oh !
Where be I now ? '
ask the Priest .
` Now you be in Purgatory , ' say the Master Thief , and off he go and take the gold and the silver and all the precious thing which the Priest have lay together in his best parlour .
Next morning , when the goose-girl come to let out the goose , she hear the Priest bemoaning himself a he lay in the sack in the goose-house .
` Oh , heavens !
who be that , and what ail you ? '
say she .
` Oh , ' say the Priest , ` if you be an angel from heaven do let me out and let me go back to earth again , for no place be ever so bad a this -- the little fiend nip me so with their tongs . ' '
I be no angel , ' say the girl , and help the Priest out of the sack . '
I only look after the Governor 's geese , that 's what I do , and they be the little fiend which have pinch your reverence . '
` This be the Master Thief 's do !
Oh , my gold and my silver and my best clothes ! '
shriek the Priest , and , wild with rage , he run home so fast that the goose-girl thought he have suddenly go mad .
When the Governor learn what have happen to the Priest he laugh till he nearly kill himself , but when the Master Thief come and want to have his daughter accord to promise , he once more give him nothing but fine word , and say , ` You must give me one more proof of your skill , so that I can really judge of your worth .
I have twelve horse in my stable , and I will put twelve stable boy in it , one on each horse .
If you be clever enough to steal the horse from under them , I will see what I can do for you . '
` What you set me to do can be do , ' say the Master Thief , ` but be I certain to get your daughter when it be ? '
` Yes ; if you can do that I will do my best for you , ' say the Governor .
So the Master Thief go to a shop , and buy enough brandy to fill two pocket flask , and he put a sleeping drink into one of these , but into the other he pour brandy only .
Then he engage eleven men to lie that night in hide behind the Governor 's stable .
After this , by fair word and good payment , he borrow a ragged gown and a jerkin from an age woman , and then , with a staff in his hand and a poke on his back , he hobble off a even come on towards the Governor 's stable .
The stable boy be just water the horse for the night , and it be quite as much a they could do to attend to that .
` What on earth do you want here ? '
say one of them to the old woman .
` Oh dear !
oh dear !
How cold it be ! '
she say , sob , and shiver with cold .
` Oh dear !
oh dear !
it 's cold enough to freeze a poor old body to death ! '
and she shiver and shook again , and say , ` For heaven 's sake give me leave to stay here and sit just inside the stable door . '
` You will get nothing of the kind !
Be off this moment !
If the Governor be to catch sight of you here , he would lead u a pretty dance , ' say one .
` Oh !
what a poor helpless old creature ! '
say another , who felt sorry for her .
` That poor old woman can do no harm to anyone .
She may sit there and welcome . '
The rest of them think that she ought not to stay , but while they be dispute about this and look after the horse , she creep far and far into the stable , and at last sit down behind the door , and when once she be inside no one take any more notice of her .
As the night wore on the stable boy find it rather cold work to sit still on horseback .
` Hutetu !
But it be fearfully cold ! '
say one , and begin to beat his arm backwards and forward across his breast .
` Yes , I be so cold that my teeth be chatter , ' say another .
` If one have but a little tobacco , ' say a third .
Well , one of them have a little , so they share it among them , though there be very little for each man , but they chew it .
This be some help to them , but very soon they be just as cold a before .
` Hutetu ! '
say one of them , shiver again .
` Hutetu ! '
say the old woman , gnash her teeth together till they chatter inside her mouth ; and then she get out the flask which contain nothing but brandy , and her hand tremble so that she shake the bottle about , and when she drink it make a great gulp in her throat .
` What be that you have in your flask , old woman ? '
ask one of the stable boy .
` Oh , it 's only a little drop of brandy , your honour , ' she say .
` Brandy !
What !
Let me have a drop !
Let me have a drop ! '
scream all the twelve at once .
` Oh , but what I have be so little , ' whimper the old woman .
` It will not even wet your mouth . '
But they be determine to have it , and there be nothing to be do but give it ; so she take out the flask with the sleep drink and put it to the lip of the first of them ; and now she shake no more , but guide the flask so that each of them get just as much a he ought , and the twelfth have not do drinking before the first be already sit snore .
Then the Master Thief fling off his beggar 's rag , and take one stable boy after the other and gently set him astride on the partition which divide the stall , and then he call his eleven men who be wait outside , and they ride off with the Governor 's horse .
In the morning when the Governor come to look after his stable boy they be just begin to come to again .
They be drive their spur into the partition till the splinter fly about , and some of the boy fell off , and some still hang on and sit look like fool .
` Ah , well , ' say the Governor , ` it be easy to see who have be here ; but what a worthless set of fellow you must be to sit here and let the Master Thief steal the horse from under you ! '
And they all get a beating for not have keep watch well .
Later in the day the Master Thief come and relate what he have do , and want to have the Governor 's daughter a have be promise .
But the Governor give him a hundred dollar , and say that he must do something that be good still .
` Do you think you can steal my horse from under me when I be out rid on it ? '
say he .
` Well , it might be do , ' say the Master Thief , ` if I be absolutely certain that I should get your daughter . '
So the Governor say that he would see what he could do , and then he say that on a certain day he would ride out to a great common where they drill the soldier .
So the Master Thief immediately get hold of an old worn-out mare , and set himself to work to make a collar for it of green withy and branch of broom ; buy a shabby old cart and a great cask , and then he tell a poor old beggar woman that he would give her ten dollar if she would get into the cask and keep her mouth wide-open beneath the tap-hole , into which he be go to stick his finger .
No harm should happen to her , he say ; she should only be drive about a little , and if he take his finger out more than once , she should have ten dollar more .
Then he dress himself in rag , dye himself with soot , and put on a wig and a great beard of goat 's hair , so that it be impossible to recognise him , and go to the parade ground , where the Governor have already be rid about a long time .
When the Master Thief get there the mare go along so slowly and quietly that the cart hardly seem to move from the spot .
The mare pull it a little forward , and then a little back , and then it stop quite short .
Then the mare pull a little forward again , and it move with such difficulty that the Governor have not the least idea that this be the Master Thief .
He ride straight up to him , and ask if he have see anyone hide anywhere about in a wood that be close by .
` No , ' say the man , ` that have I not . '
` Hark you , ' say the Governor .
` If you will ride into that wood , and search it carefully to see if you can light upon a fellow who be hide in there , you shall have the loan of my horse and a good present of money for your trouble . ' '
I be not sure that I can do it , ' say the man , ` for I have to go to a wedding with this cask of mead which I have be to fetch , and the tap have fall out on the way , so now I have to keep my finger in the tap-hole a I drive . '
` Oh , just ride off , ' say the Governor , ` and I will look after the cask and the horse too . '
So the man say that if he would do that he would go , but he beg the Governor to be very careful to put his finger into the tap-hole the moment he take his out .
So the Governor say that he would do his very best , and the Master Thief get on the Governor 's horse .
But time pass , and it grow later and later , and still the man do not come back , and at last the Governor grow so weary of keep his finger in the tap-hole that he take it out .
` Now I shall have ten dollar more ! '
cry the old woman inside the cask ; so he soon saw what kind of mead it be , and set out homewards .
When he have go a very little way he meet his servant bringing him the horse , for the Master Thief have already take it home .
The following day he go to the Governor and want to have his daughter accord to promise .
But the Governor again put him off with fine word , and only give him three hundred dollar , say that he must do one more masterpiece of skill , and if he be but able to do that he should have her .
Well , the Master Thief think he might if he could hear what it be .
` Do you think you can steal the sheet off our bed , and my wife 's night-gown ? '
say the Governor .
` That be by no mean impossible , ' say the Master Thief . '
I only wish I could get your daughter a easily . '
So late at night the Master Thief go and cut down a thief who be hang on the gallows , lay him on his own shoulder , and take him away with him .
Then he get hold of a long ladder , set it up against the Governor 's bedroom window , and climb up and move the dead man 's head up and down , just a if he be some one who be stand outside and peep in .
` There 's the Master Thief , mother ! '
say the Governor , nudge his wife .
` Now I 'll just shoot him , that I will ! '
So he take up a rifle which he have lay at his bedside .
` Oh no , you must not do that , ' say his wife ; ` you yourself arrange that he be to come here . '
` Yes , mother , I will shoot him , ' say he , and lay there aim , and then aim again , for no sooner be the head up and he catch sight of it than it be go again .
At last he get a chance and fire , and the dead body fell with a loud thud to the ground , and down go the Master Thief too , a fast a he could .
` Well , ' say the Governor , ' I certainly be the chief man about here , but people soon begin to talk , and it would be very unpleasant if they be to see this dead body ; the best thing that I can do be to go out and bury him . '
` Just do what you think best , father , ' say his wife .
So the Governor get up and go downstairs , and as soon a he have go out through the door , the Master Thief stole in and go straight upstairs to the woman .
` Well , father dear , ' say she , for she think it be her husband .
` Have you get do already ? '
` Oh yes , I only put him into a hole , ' say he , ` and rake a little earth over him ; that 's all I have be able to do to-night , for it be fearful weather outside .
I will bury him good afterwards , but just let me have the sheet to wipe myself with , for he be bleed , and I have get cover with blood with carry him . '
So she give him the sheet .
` You will have to let me have your night-gown too , ' he say , ` for I begin to see that the sheet wo n't be enough . '
Then she give him her night-gown , but just then it come into his head that he have forget to lock the door , and he be force to go downstairs and do it before he could lie down in bed again .
So off he go with the sheet , and the night-gown too .
An hour later the real Governor return .
` Well , what a time it have take to lock the house door , father ! '
say his wife , ` and what have you do with the sheet and the night-gown ? '
` What do you mean ? '
ask the Governor .
` Oh , I be ask you what you have do with the night-gown and sheet that you get to wipe the blood off yourself with , ' say she .
` Good heaven ! '
say the Governor , ` have he actually get the good of me again ? '
When day come the Master Thief come too , and want to have the Governor 's daughter a have be promise , and the Governor dare do no otherwise than give her to him , and much money besides , for he fear that if he do not the Master Thief might steal the very eye out of his head , and that he himself would be ill speak of by all men .
The Master Thief live well and happily from that time forth , and whether he ever steal any more or not I can not tell you , but if he do it be but for pastime .
-LRB- 5 -RRB- From P. C. Asbjornsen .
BROTHER AND SISTER BROTHER take sister by the hand and say : ` Look here ; we have n't have one single happy hour since our mother die .
That stepmother of ours beat u regularly every day , and if we dare go near her she kick u away .
We never get anything but hard dry crust to eat -- why , the dog under the table be good off than we be .
She do throw him a good morsel or two now and then .
Oh dear !
if our own dear mother only know all about it !
Come along , and let u go forth into the wide world together . '
So off they start through field and meadow , over hedge and ditch , and walk the whole day long , and when it rain sister say : ` Heaven and our heart be weep together . '
Towards even they come to a large forest , and be so tire out with hunger and their long walk , as well a all their trouble , that they creep into a hollow tree and soon fell fast asleep .
Next morning , when they wake up , the sun be already high in the heaven and be shin down bright and warm into the tree .
Then say brother : ` I 'm so thirsty , sister ; if I do but know where to find a little stream , I 'd go and have a drink .
I do believe I hear one . '
He jump up , take sister by the hand , and they set off to hunt for the brook .
Now their cruel stepmother be in reality a witch , and she know perfectly well that the two child have run away .
She have creep secretly after them , and have cast her spell over all the stream in the forest .
Presently the child find a little brook dancing and glittering over the stone , and brother be eager to drink of it , but a it rush past sister heard it murmur : ` Who drink of me will be a tiger !
who drink of me will be a tiger ! '
So she cry out , ` Oh !
dear brother , pray do n't drink , or you 'll be turn into a wild beast and tear me to piece . '
Brother be dreadfully thirsty , but he do not drink .
` Very well , ' say he , ` I 'll wait till we come to the next spring . '
When they come to the second brook , sister hear it repeat too : ` Who drink of me will be a wolf I who drink of me will be a wolf ! '
And she cry , ` Oh !
brother , pray do n't drink here either , or you 'll be turn into a wolf and eat me up . '
Again brother do not drink , but he say : ` Well , I 'll wait a little long till we reach the next stream , but then , whatever you may say , I really must drink , for I can bear this thirst no longer . '
And when they get to the third brook , sister hear it say a it rush past : ` Who drink of me will be a roe !
who drink of me will be a roe ! '
And she beg , ` Ah !
brother , do n't drink yet , or you 'll become a roe and run away from me . '
But her brother be already kneel by the brook and bending over it to drink , and , sure enough , no sooner have his lip touch the water than he fell on the grass transform into a little Roebuck .
Sister cry bitterly over her poor bewitch brother , and the little Roe weep too , and sit sadly by her side .
At last the girl say : ` Never mind , dear little fawn , I will never forsake you , ' and she take off her golden garter and tie it round the Roe 's neck .
Then she pluck rush and plait a soft cord of them , which she fasten to the collar .
When she have do this she lead the Roe farther and farther , right into the depth of the forest .
After they have go a long , long way they come to a little house , and when the girl look into it she find it be quite empty , and she think ` perhaps we might stay and live here . '
So she hunt up leaf and moss to make a soft bed for the little Roe , and every morning and evening she go out and gathered root , nut , and berry for herself , and tender young grass for the fawn .
And he feed from her hand , and play round her and seem quite happy .
In the evening , when sister be tire , she say her prayer and then lay her head on the fawn 's back and fell sound asleep with it a a pillow .
And if brother have but keep his natural form , really it would have be a most delightful kind of life .
They have be live for some time in the forest in this way , when it come to pass that the King of that country have a great hunt through the wood .
Then the whole forest rang with such a blowing of horn , baying of dog , and joyful cry of huntsman , that the little Roe hear it and long to join in too .
` Ah ! '
say he to sister , ` do let me go off to the hunt !
I ca n't keep still any longer . '
And he beg and pray till at last she consent .
` But , ' say she , ` mind you come back in the evening .
I shall lock my door fast for fear of those wild huntsman ; so , to make sure of my knowing you , knock at the door and say , `` My sister dear , open ; I 'm here . ''
If you do n't speak I sha n't open the door . '
So off spring the little Roe , and he felt quite well and happy in the free open air .
The King and his huntsman soon saw the beautiful creature and start in pursuit , but they could not come up with it , and whenever they think they be sure to catch it , it bound off to one side into the bush and disappear .
When night come on it run home , and knock at the door of the little house cry : ` My sister dear , open ; I 'm here . '
The door open , and he run in and rest all night on his soft mossy bed .
Next morning the hunt begin again , and as soon a the little Roe hear the horn and the ` Ho !
ho !
` of the huntsman , he could not rest another moment , and say : ` Sister , open the door , I must get out . '
So sister open the door and say , ` Now mind and get back by nightfall , and say your little rhyme . '
As soon a the King and his huntsman saw the Roe with the golden collar they all ride off after it , but it be far too quick and nimble for them .
This go on all day , but a evening come on the huntsman have gradually encircle the Roe , and one of them wound it slightly in the foot , so that it limp and run off slowly .
Then the huntsman stole after it as far a the little house , and hear it call out , ` My sister dear , open ; I 'm here , ' and he saw the door open and close immediately the fawn have run in .
The huntsman remember all this carefully , and go off straight to the King and tell him all he have see and hear .
` To-morrow we will hunt again , ' say the King .
Poor sister be terribly frighten when she saw how her little Fawn have be wound .
She wash off the blood , bind up the injured foot with herb , and say : ` Now , dear , go and lie down and rest , so that your wound may heal . '
The wound be really so slight that it be quite well next day , and the little Roe do not feel it at all .
No sooner do it hear the sound of hunt in the forest than it cry : ' I ca n't stand this , I must be there too ; I 'll take care they sha n't catch me . '
Sister begin to cry , and say , ` They be certain to kill you , and then I shall be leave all alone in the forest and forsake by everyone .
I ca n't and wo n't let you out . '
` Then I shall die of grief , ' reply the Roe , ` for when I hear that horn I feel a if I must jump right out of my skin . '
So at last , when sister find there be nothing else to be do , she open the door with a heavy heart , and the Roe dart forth full of glee and health into the forest .
As soon a the King saw the Roe , he say to his huntsman , ` Now then , give chase to it all day till evening , but mind and be careful not to hurt it . '
When the sun have set the King say to his huntsman , ` Now come and show me the little house in the wood . '
And when he get to the house he knock at the door and say , ` My sister dear , open ; I 'm here . '
Then the door open and the King walk in , and there stand the lovely maiden he have ever see .
The girl be much startle when instead of the little Roe she expect she saw a man with a gold crown on his head walk in .
But the King look kindly at her , hold out his hand , and say , ` Will you come with me to my castle and be my dear wife ? '
` Oh yes ! '
reply the maiden , ` but you must let my Roe come too .
I could not possibly forsake it . '
` It shall stay with you as long a you live , and shall want for nothing , ' the King promise .
In the meantime the Roe come bound in , and sister tie the rush cord once more to it collar , take the end in her hand , and so they leave the little house in the forest together .
The King lift the lonely maiden on to his horse , and lead her to his castle , where the wedding be celebrate with the great splendour .
The Roe be pet and caress , and run about at will in the palace garden .
Now all this time the wicked stepmother , who have be the cause of these poor child 's misfortune and try adventure , be feel fully persuade that sister have be tear to piece by wild beast , and brother shot to death in the shape of a Roe .
When she hear how happy and prosperous they be , her heart be fill with envy and hatred , and she could think of nothing but how to bring some fresh misfortune on them .
Her own daughter , who be as hideous a night and have only one eye , reproach her by say , ` It be I who ought to have have this good luck and be Queen . '
` Be quiet , will you , ' say the old woman ; ` when the time come I shall be at hand . '
Now after some time it happen one day when the King be out hunt that the Queen give birth to a beautiful little boy .
The old witch thought here be a good chance for her ; so she take the form of the lady in wait , and , hurry into the room where the Queen lay in her bed , call out , ` The bath be quite ready ; it will help to make you strong again .
Come , let u be quick , for fear the water should get cold . '
Her daughter be at hand , too , and between them they carry the Queen , who be still very weak , into the bath-room and lay her in the bath ; then they lock the door and run away .
They take care beforehand to make a blazing hot fire under the bath , so that the lovely young Queen might be suffocate .
As soon a they be sure this be the case , the old witch tie a cap on her daughter 's head and lay her in the Queen 's bed .
She manage , too , to make her figure and general appearance look like the Queen 's , but even her power could not restore the eye she have lose ; so she make her lie on the side of the miss eye , in order to prevent the King 's notice anything .
In the evening , when the King come home and hear the news of his son 's birth , he be full of delight , and insist on go at once to his dear wife 's bedside to see how she be get on .
But the old witch cry out , ` Take care and keep the curtain draw ; do n't let the light get into the Queen 's eye ; she must be keep perfectly quiet . '
So the King go away and never know that it be a false Queen who lay in the bed .
When midnight come and everyone in the palace be sound asleep , the nurse who alone watch by the baby 's cradle in the nursery saw the door open gently , and who should come in but the real Queen .
She lift the child from it cradle , lay it on her arm , and nurse it for some time .
Then she carefully shake up the pillow of the little bed , lay the baby down and tuck the coverlet in all round him .
She do not forget the little Roe either , but go to the corner where it lay , and gently stroke it back .
Then she silently leave the room , and next morning when the nurse ask the sentry if they have see any one go into the castle that night , they all say , ` No , we saw no one at all . '
For many night the Queen come in the same way , but she never speak a word , and the nurse be too frightened to say anything about her visit .
After some little time have elapse the Queen speak one night , and say : ` Is my child well ?
Is my Roe well ?
I 'll come back twice and then farewell . '
The nurse make no answer , but as soon a the Queen have disappear she go to the King and tell him all .
The King exclaim , ` Good heaven !
what do you say ?
I will watch myself to-night by the child 's bed . '
When the evening come he go to the nursery , and at midnight the Queen appear and say : ` Is my child well ?
Is my Roe well ?
I 'll come back once and then farewell . '
And she nurse and pet the child a usual before she disappear .
The King dare not trust himself to speak to her , but the following night he keep watch again .
That night when the Queen come she say : ` Is my child well ?
Is my Roe well ?
I 've come this once , and now farewell . '
Then the King could restrain himself no longer , but sprang to her side and cry , ` You can be no one but my dear wife ! '
` Yes , ' say she , ' I be your dear wife ! '
and in the same moment she be restore to life , and be a fresh and well and rosy a ever .
Then she tell the King all the cruel thing the wicked witch and her daughter have do .
The King have them both arrest at once and bring to trial , and they be condemn to death .
The daughter be lead into the forest , where the wild beast tear her to piece , and the old witch be burn at the stake .
As soon a she reduce to ash the spell be take off the little Roe , and he be restore to his natural shape once more , and so brother and sister live happily ever after .
-LRB- 6 -RRB- -LRB- 6 -RRB- Grimm .
PRINCESS ROSETTE ONCE upon a time there live a King and Queen who have two beautiful son and one little daughter , who be so pretty that no one who saw her could help love her .
When it be time for the christening of the Princess , the Queen -- a she always do -- send for all the fairy to be present at the ceremony , and afterwards invite them to a splendid banquet .
When it be over , and they be prepare to go away , the Queen say to them : ` Do not forget your usual good custom .
Tell me what be go to happen to Rosette . '
For that be the name they have give the Princess .
But the fairy say they have leave their book of magic at home , and they would come another day and tell her .
` Ah ! '
say the Queen , ' I know very well what that mean -- you have nothing good to say ; but at least I beg that you will not hide anything from me . '
So , after a great deal of persuasion , they say : ` Madam , we fear that Rosette may be the cause of great misfortune to her brother ; they may even meet with their death through her ; that be all we have be able to foresee about your dear little daughter .
We be very sorry to have nothing good to tell you . '
Then they go away , leave the Queen very sad , so sad that the King notice it , and ask her what be the matter .
The Queen say that she have be sit too near the fire , and have burn all the flax that be upon her distaff .
` Oh !
be that all ? '
say the King , and he go up into the garret and bring her down more flax than she could spin in a hundred year .
But the Queen still look sad , and the King ask her again what be the matter .
She answer that she have be walk by the river and have drop one of her green satin slipper into the water .
` Oh !
if that 's all , ' say the King , and he send to all the shoe-makers in his kingdom , and they very soon make the Queen ten thousand green satin slipper , but still she look sad .
So the King ask her again what be the matter , and this time she answer that in eat her porridge too hastily she have swallow her wedding-ring .
But it so happen that the King know well , for he have the ring himself , and he say : ` Oh I you be not tell me the truth , for I have your ring here in my purse . '
Then the Queen be very much ashamed , and she saw that the King be vexed with her ; so she tell him all that the fairy have predict about Rosette , and beg him to think how the misfortune might be prevent .
Then it be the King 's turn to look sad , and at last he say : ' I see no way of save our son except by have Rosette 's head cut off while she be still little . '
But the Queen cry that she would far rather have her own head cut off , and that he have well think of something else , for she would never consent to such a thing .
So they think and think , but they could not tell what to do , until at last the Queen heard that in a great forest near the castle there be an old hermit , who live in a hollow tree , and that people come from far and near to consult him ; so she say : ' I have well go and ask his advice ; perhaps he will know what to do to prevent the misfortune which the fairy foretell . '
She set out very early the next morning , mount upon a pretty little white mule , which be shoe with solid gold , and two of her lady rode behind her on beautiful horse .
When they reach the forest they dismount , for the tree grow so thickly that the horse could not pass , and make their way on foot to the hollow tree where the hermit live .
At first when he saw them come he be vex , for he be not fond of lady ; but when he recognise the Queen , he say : ` You be welcome , Queen .
What do you come to ask of me ? '
Then the Queen tell him all the fairy have foresee for Rosette , and ask what she should do , and the hermit answer that she must shut the Princess up in a tower and never let her come out of it again .
The Queen thank and reward him , and hasten back to the castle to tell the King .
When he hear the news he have a great tower build as quickly a possible , and there the Princess be shut up , and the King and Queen and her two brother go to see her every day that she might not be dull .
The eldest brother be call ` the Great Prince , ' and the second ` the Little Prince . '
They love their sister dearly , for she be the sweet , pretty princess who be ever see , and the least little smile from her be worth more than a hundred piece of gold .
When Rosette be fifteen year old the Great Prince go to the King and ask if it would not soon be time for her to be marry , and the Little Prince put the same question to the Queen .
Their majesty be amuse at them for thinking of it , but do not make any reply , and soon after both the King and the Queen be take ill , and die on the same day .
Everybody be sorry , Rosette especially , and all the bell in the kingdom be toll .
Then all the duke and counsellor put the Great Prince upon a golden throne , and crown him with a diamond crown , and they all cry , ` Long live the King ! '
And after that there be nothing but feasting and rejoicing .
The new King and his brother say to one another : ` Now that we be the master , let u take our sister out of that dull tower which she be so tired of . '
They have only to go across the garden to reach the tower , which be very high , and stand up in a corner .
Rosette be busy at her embroidery , but when she saw her brother she get up , and take the King 's hand cry : ` Good morning , dear brother .
Now that you be King , please take me out of this dull tower , for I be so tired of it . '
Then she begin to cry , but the King kiss her and tell her to dry her tear , a that be just what they have come for , to take her out of the tower and bring her to their beautiful castle , and the Prince show her the pocketful of sugar plum he have bring for her , and say : ` Make haste , and let u get away from this ugly tower , and very soon the King will arrange a grand marriage for you . '
When Rosette saw the beautiful garden , full of fruit and flower , with green grass and sparkling fountain , she be so astonished that not a word could she say , for she have never in her life see anything like it before .
She look about her , and run hither and thither gathering fruit and flower , and her little dog Frisk , who be bright green all over , and have but one ear , dance before her , cry ` Bow-wow-wow , ' and turn head over heel in the most enchanting way .
Everybody be amuse at Frisk 's antic , but all of a sudden he run away into a little wood , and the Princess be follow him , when , to her great delight , she saw a peacock , who be spread his tail in the sunshine .
Rosette think she have never see anything so pretty .
She could not take her eye off him , and there she stand entrance until the King and the Prince come up and ask what be amuse her so much .
She show them the peacock , and ask what it be , and they answer that it be a bird which people sometimes eat .
` What ! '
say the Princess , ` do they dare to kill that beautiful creature and eat it ?
I declare that I will never marry any one but the King of the Peacocks , and when I be Queen I will take very good care that nobody eat any of my subject . '
At this the King be very much astonish .
` But , little sister , ' say he , ` where shall we find the King of the Peacocks ? '
` Oh !
wherever you like , sire , ' she answer , ` but I will never marry any one else . '
After this they take Rosette to the beautiful castle , and the peacock be bring with her , and tell to walk about on the terrace outside her window , so that she might always see him , and then the lady of the court come to see the Princess , and they bring her beautiful present -- dress and ribbon and sweetmeat , diamond and pearl and doll and embroidered slipper , and she be so well bring up , and say , ` Thank you ! '
so prettily , and be so gracious , that everyone go away delighted with her .
Meanwhile the King and the Prince be consider how they should find the King of the Peacocks , if there be such a person in the world .
And first of all they have a portrait make of the Princess , which be so like her that you really would not have be surprise if it have speak to you .
Then they say to her : ` Since you will not marry anyone but the King of the Peacocks , we be go out together into the wide world to search for him .
If we find him for you we shall be very glad .
In the meantime , mind you take good care of our kingdom . '
Rosette thank them for all the trouble they be take on her account , and promise to take great care of the kingdom , and only to amuse herself by look at the peacock , and make Frisk dance while they be away .
So they set out , and ask everyone they meet -- ` Do you know the King of the Peacocks ? '
But the answer be always , ` No , no . '
Then they go on and on , so far that no one have ever be far , and at last they come to the Kingdom of the Cockchafers .
They have never before see such a number of cockchafer , and the buzzing be so loud that the King be afraid he should be deafen by it .
He ask the most distinguished-looking cockchafer they meet if he know where they could find the King of the Peacocks .
` Sire , ' reply the cockchafer , ` his kingdom be thirty thousand league from this ; you have come the long way . '
` And how do you know that ? '
say the King .
` Oh ! '
say the cockchafer , ` we all know you very well , since we spend two or three month in your garden every year . '
Thereupon the King and the Prince make great friend with him , and they all walk arm-in-arm and din together , and afterwards the cockchafer show them all the curiosity of his strange country , where the tiny green leaf cost a gold piece and more .
Then they set out again to finish their journey , and this time , a they know the way , they be not long upon the road .
It be easy to guess that they have come to the right place , for they saw peacock in every tree , and their cry could be hear a long way off : When they reach the city they find it full of men and woman who be dress entirely in peacock ' feather , which be evidently think pretty than anything else .
They soon meet the King , who be drive about in a beautiful little golden carriage which glitter with diamond , and be draw at full speed by twelve peacock .
The King and the Prince be delight to see that the King of the Peacocks be as handsome a possible .
He have curly golden hair and be very pale , and he wear a crown of peacock ' feather .
When he saw Rosette 's brother he know at once that they be stranger , and stop his carriage he send for them to speak to him .
When they have greet him they say : ` Sire , we have come from very far away to show you a beautiful portrait . '
So say they draw from their travelling bag the picture of Rosette .
The King look at it in silence a long time , but at last he say : ' I could not have believe that there be such a beautiful Princess in the world ! '
` Indeed , she be really a hundred time as pretty a that , ' say her brother . '
I think you must be make fun of me , ' reply the King of the Peacocks .
` Sire , ' say the Prince , ` my brother be a King , like yourself .
He be call `` the King , '' I be call `` the Prince , '' and that be the portrait of our sister , the Princess Rosette .
We have come to ask if you would like to marry her .
She be as good a she be beautiful , and we will give her a bushel of gold piece for her dowry . '
` Oh !
with all my heart , ' reply the King , ` and I will make her very happy .
She shall have whatever she like , and I shall love her dearly ; only I warn you that if she be not as pretty a you have tell me , I will have your head cut off . '
` Oh !
certainly , we quite agree to that , ' say the brother in one breath .
` Very well .
Off with you into prison , and stay there until the Princess arrive , ' say the King of the Peacocks .
And the Princes be so sure that Rosette be far pretty than her portrait that they go without a murmur .
They be very kindly treat , and that they might not feel dull the King come often to see them .
As for Rosette 's portrait that be take up to the palace , and the King do nothing but gaze at it all day and all night .
As the King and the Prince have to stay in prison , they send a letter to the Princess tell her to pack up all her treasure as quickly a possible , and come to them , a the King of the Peacocks be wait to marry her ; but they do not say that they be in prison , for fear of make her uneasy .
When Rosette receive the letter she be so delighted that she run about tell everyone that the King of the Peacocks be find , and she be go to marry him .
Guns be fire , and firework let off .
Everyone have a many cake and sweetmeat a he want .
And for three day everybody who come to see the Princess be present with a slice of bread-and-jam , a nightingale 's egg , and some hippocras .
After have thus entertain her friend , she distribute her doll among them , and leave her brother 's kingdom to the care of the wise old men of the city , tell them to take charge of everything , not to spend any money , but save it all up until the King should return , and above all , not to forget to fee her peacock .
Then she set out , only take with her her nurse , and the nurse 's daughter , and the little green dog Frisk .
They take a boat and put out to sea , carry with them the bushel of gold piece , and enough dress to last the Princess ten year if she wear two every day , and they do nothing but laugh and sing .
The nurse ask the boatman : ` Can you take u , can you take u to the kingdom of the peacock ? '
But he answer : ` Oh no !
oh no ! '
Then she say : ` You must take u , you must take u . '
And he answer : ` Very soon , very soon . '
Then the nurse say : ` Will you take u ?
will you take u ? '
And the boatman answer : ` Yes , yes . '
Then she whisper in his ear : ` Do you want to make your fortune ? '
And he say : ` Certainly I do . ' '
I can tell you how to get a bag of gold , ' say she . '
I ask nothing well , ' say the boatman .
` Well , ' say the nurse , ` to-night , when the Princess be asleep , you must help me to throw her into the sea , and when she be drown I will put her beautiful clothes upon my daughter , and we will take her to the King of the Peacocks , who will be only too glad to marry her , and a your reward you shall have your boat full of diamond . '
The boatman be very much surprise at this proposal , and say : ` But what a pity to drown such a pretty Princess ! '
However , at last the nurse persuade him to help her , and when the night come and the Princess be fast asleep a usual , with Frisk curl up on his own cushion at the foot of her bed , the wicked nurse fetch the boatman and her daughter , and between them they pick up the Princess , feather bed , mattress , pillow , blanket and all , and throw her into the sea , without even wake her .
Now , luckily , the Princess 's bed be entirely stuff with phoenix feather , which be very rare , and have the property of always float upon water , so Rosette go on swim about a if she have be in a boat .
After a little while she begin to feel very cold , and turn round so often that she wake Frisk , who start up , and , have a very good nose , smelt the sol and herring so close to him that he begin to bark .
He bark so long and so loud that he wake all the other fish , who come swim up round the Princess 's bed , and poke at it with their great head .
As for her , she say to herself : ` How our boat do rock upon the water !
I be really glad that I be not often as uncomfortable a I have be to-night . '
The wicked nurse and the boatman , who be by this time quite a long way off , hear Frisk barking , and say to each other : ` That horrid little animal and his mistress be drink our health in sea-water now .
Let u make haste to land , for we must be quite near the city of the King of the Peacocks . '
The King have send a hundred carriage to meet them , draw by every kind of strange animal .
There be lion , bear , wolf , stag , horse , buffalo , eagle , and peacock .
The carriage intend for the Princess Rosette have six blue monkey , which could turn summer-saults , and dance on a tight-rope , and do many other charm trick .
Their harness be all of crimson velvet with gold buckle , and behind the carriage walk sixty beautiful lady choose by the King to wait upon Rosette and amuse her .
The nurse have take all the pain imaginable to deck out her daughter .
She put on her Rosette 's pretty frock , and cover her with diamond from head to foot .
But she be so ugly that nothing could make her look nice , and what be bad , she be sulky and ill-tempered , and do nothing but grumble all the time .
When she step from the boat and the escort send by the King of the Peacocks catch sight of her , they be so surprised that they could not say a single word .
` Now then , look alive , ' cry the false Princess .
` If you do n't bring me something to eat I will have all your head cut off ! '
Then they whisper one to another : ` Here 's a pretty state of thing !
she be as wicked a she be ugly .
What a bride for our poor King !
She certainly be not worth bring from the other end of the world ! '
But she go on order them all about , and for no fault at all would give slap and pinch to everyone she could reach .
As the procession be so long it advance but slowly , and the nurse 's daughter sit up in her carriage try to look like a Queen .
But the peacock , who be sit upon every tree wait to salute her , and who have make up their mind to cry , ` Long live our beautiful Queen ! '
when they catch sight of the false bride could not help cry instead : ` Oh !
how ugly she be ! '
Which offend her so much that she say to the guard : ` Make haste and kill all these insolent peacock who have dare to insult me . '
But the peacock only fly away , laugh at her .
The rogue of a boatman , who notice all this , say softly to the nurse : ` This be a bad business for u , gossip ; your daughter ought to have be pretty . '
But she answer : ` Be quiet , stupid , or you will spoil everything . '
Now they tell the King that the Princess be approach .
` Well , ' say he , ` do her brother tell me truly ?
Is she pretty than her portrait ? '
` Sire , ' they answer , ` if she be a pretty that would do very well . '
` That 's true , ' say the King ; ' I for one shall be quite satisfied if she be .
Let u go and meet her . '
For they know by the uproar that she have arrive , but they could not tell what all the shouting be about .
The King thought he could hear the word : ` How ugly she be !
How ugly she be ! '
and he fancy they must refer to some dwarf the Princess be bring with her .
It never occur to him that they could apply to the bride herself .
The Princess Rosette 's portrait be carry at the head of the procession , and after it walk the King surround by his courtier .
He be all impatience to see the lovely Princess , but when he catch sight of the nurse 's daughter he be furiously angry , and would not advance another step .
For she be really ugly enough to have frighten anybody .
` What ! '
he cry , ` have the two rascal who be my prisoner dare to play me such a trick a this ?
Do they propose that I shall marry this hideous creature ?
Let her be shut up in my great tower , with her nurse and those who bring her here ; and a for them , I will have their head cut off . '
Meanwhile the King and the Prince , who know that their sister must have arrive , have make themselves smart , and sit expect every minute to be summon to greet her .
So when the gaoler come with soldier , and carry them down into a black dungeon which swarm with toad and bat , and where they be up to their neck in water , nobody could have be more surprised and dismay than they be .
` This be a dismal kind of wedding , ' they say ; ` what can have happen that we should be treat like this ?
They must mean to kill u . '
And this idea annoy them very much .
Three day pass before they hear any news , and then the King of the Peacocks come and berate them through a hole in the wall .
` You have call yourselves King and Prince , ' he cry , ` to try and make me marry your sister , but you be nothing but beggar , not worth the water you drink .
I mean to make short work with you , and the sword be be sharpen that will cut off your head ! '
` King of the Peacocks , ' answer the King angrily , ` you have good take care what you be about .
I be as good a King a yourself , and have a splendid kingdom and robe and crown , and plenty of good red gold to do what I like with .
You be pleased to jest about have our head cut off ; perhaps you think we have steal something from you ? '
At first the King of the Peacocks be take aback by this bold speech , and have half a mind to send them all away together ; but his Prime Minister declare that it would never do to let such a trick a that pas unpunished , everybody would laugh at him ; so the accusation be draw up against them , that they be impostor , and that they have promise the King a beautiful Princess in marriage who , when she arrive , prove to be an ugly peasant girl .
This accusation be read to the prisoner , who cry out that they have speak the truth , that their sister be indeed a Princess more beautiful than the day , and that there be some mystery about all this which they could not fathom .
Therefore they demand seven day in which to prove their innocence , The King of the Peacocks be so angry that he would hardly even grant them this favour , but at last he be persuade to do so .
While all this be go on at court , let u see what have be happen to the real Princess .
When the day break she and Frisk be equally astonish at find themselves alone upon the sea , with no boat and no one to help them .
The Princess cry and cry , until even the fish be sorry for her .
` Alas ! '
she say , ` the King of the Peacocks must have order me to be throw into the sea because he have change his mind and do not want to marry me .
But how strange of him , when I should have love him so much , and we should have be so happy together ! '
And then she cry hard than ever , for she could not help still love him .
So for two day they float up and down the sea , wet and shiver with the cold , and so hungry that when the Princess saw some oyster she catch them , and she and Frisk both eat some , though they do n't like them at all .
When night come the Princess be so frightened that she say to Frisk : ` Oh !
Do please keep on bark for fear the sol should come and eat u up ! '
Now it happen that they have float close in to the shore , where a poor old man live all alone in a little cottage .
When he hear Frisk 's barking he think to himself : ` There must have be a shipwreck ! '
-LRB- for no dog ever pass that way by any chance -RRB- , and he go out to see if he could be of any use .
He soon saw the Princess and Frisk float up and down , and Rosette , stretch out her hand to him , cry : ` Oh !
Good old man , do save me , or I shall die of cold and hunger ! '
When he hear her cry out so piteously he be very sorry for her , and run back into his house to fetch a long boat-hook .
Then he wad into the water up to his chin , and after be nearly drown once or twice he at last succeed in get hold of the Princess 's bed and drag it on shore .
Rosette and Frisk be joyful enough to find themselves once more on dry land , and the Princess thank the old man heartily ; then , wrap herself up in her blanket , she daintily pick her way up to the cottage on her little bare foot .
There the old man light a fire of straw , and then draw from an old box his wife 's dress and shoe , which the Princess put on , and thus roughly clad look as charm a possible , and Frisk dance his very best to amuse her .
The old man saw that Rosette must be some great lady , for her bed covering be all of satin and gold .
He beg that she would tell him all her history , a she might safely trust him .
The Princess tell him everything , weep bitterly again at the thought that it be by the King 's order that she have be throw overboard .
` And now , my daughter , what be to be do ? '
say the old man .
` You be a great Princess , accustom to fare daintily , and I have nothing to offer you but black bread and radish , which will not suit you at all .
Shall I go and tell the King of the Peacocks that you be here ?
If he see you he will certainly wish to marry you . '
` Oh no ! '
cry Rosette , ` he must be wicked , since he try to drown me .
Do n't let u tell him , but if you have a little basket give it to me . '
The old man give her a basket , and tie it round Frisk 's neck she say to him : ` Go and find out the best cooking-pot in the town and bring the content to me . '
Away go Frisk , and a there be no good dinner cooking in all the town than the King 's , he adroitly take the cover off the pot and bring all it contain to the Princess , who say : ` Now go back to the pantry , and bring the best of everything you find there . '
So Frisk go back and fill his basket with white bread , and red wine , and every kind of sweetmeat , until it be almost too heavy for him to carry .
When the King of the Peacocks want his dinner there be nothing in the pot and nothing in the pantry .
All the courtier look at one another in dismay , and the King be terribly cross .
` Oh well !
` he say , ` if there be no dinner I can not dine , but take care that plenty of thing be roast for supper . '
When even come the Princess say to Frisk : ` Go into the town and find out the best kitchen , and bring me all the nice morsel that be be roast upon the spit . '
Frisk do a he be tell , and a he know of no good kitchen than the King 's , he go in softly , and when the cook 's back be turn take everything that be upon the spit , As it happen it be all do to a turn , and look so good that it make him hungry only to see it .
He carry his basket to the Princess , who at once send him back to the pantry to bring all the tart and sugar plum that have be prepare for the King 's supper .
The King , a he have have no dinner , be very hungry and want his supper early , but when he ask for it , lo and behold it be all go , and he have to go to bed half-starved and in a terrible temper .
The next day the same thing happen , and the next , so that for three day the King get nothing at all to eat , because just when the dinner or the supper be ready to be serve it mysteriously disappear .
At last the Prime Minister begin to be afraid that the King would be starve to death , so he resolve to hide himself in some dark corner of the kitchen , and never take his eye off the cooking-pot .
His surprise be great when he presently saw a little green dog with one ear slip softly into the kitchen , uncover the pot , transfer all it content to his basket , and run off .
The Prime Minister follow hastily , and track him all through the town to the cottage of the good old man ; then he run back to the King and tell him that he have find out where all his dinner and supper go .
The King , who be very much astonish , say he should like to go and see for himself .
So he set out , accompany by the Prime Minister and a guard of archer , and arrive just in time to find the old man and the Princess finish his dinner .
The King order that they should be seize and bind with rope , and Frisk also .
When they be bring back to the palace some one tell the King , who say : ` To-day be the last day of the respite grant to those impostor ; they shall have their head cut off at the same time a these stealer of my dinner . '
Then the old man go down on his knee before the King and beg for time to tell him everything .
While he speak the King for the first time look attentively at the Princess , because he be sorry to see how she cry , and when he hear the old man say that her name be Rosette , and that she have be treacherously throw into the sea , he turn head over heel three time without stop , in spite of be quite weak from hunger , and run to embrace her , and untie the rope which bind her with his own hand , declare that he love her with all his heart .
Messengers be send to bring the Princes out of prison , and they come very sadly , believe that they be to be execute at once : the nurse and her daughter and the boatman be bring also .
As soon a they come in Rosette run to embrace her brother , while the traitor throw themselves down before her and beg for mercy .
The King and the Princess be so happy that they freely forgive them , and a for the good old man he be splendidly reward , and spend the rest of his day in the palace .
The King of the Peacocks make ample amends to the King and Prince for the way in which they have be treat , and do everything in his power to show how sorry he be .
The nurse restore to Rosette all her dress and jewel , and the bushel of gold piece ; the wedding be hold at once , and they all live happily ever after -- even to Frisk , who enjoy the great luxury , and never have anything bad than the wing of a partridge for dinner all the rest of his life .
-LRB- 7 -RRB- -LRB- 7 -RRB- Madame d'Aulnoy .
THE ENCHANTED PIG ONCE upon a time there live a King who have three daughter .
Now it happen that he have to go out to battle , so he call his daughter and say to them : ` My dear child , I be oblige to go to the war .
The enemy be approach u with a large army .
It be a great grief to me to leave you all .
During my absence take care of yourselves and be good girl ; behave well and look after everything in the house .
You may walk in the garden , and you may go into all the room in the palace , except the room at the back in the right-hand corner ; into that you must not enter , for harm would befall you . '
` You may keep your mind easy , father , ' they reply .
` We have never be disobedient to you .
Go in peace , and may heaven give you a glorious victory ! '
When everything be ready for his departure , the King give them the key of all the room and remind them once more of what he have say .
His daughter kiss his hand with tear in their eye , and wish him prosperity , and he give the eldest the key .
Now when the girl find themselves alone they felt so sad and dull that they do not know what to do .
So , to pass the time , they decide to work for part of the day , to read for part of the day , and to enjoy themselves in the garden for part of the day .
As long a they do this all go well with them .
But this happy state of thing do not last long .
Every day they grow more and more curious , and you will see what the end of that be .
` Sisters , ' say the eldest Princess , ` all day long we sew , spin , and read .
We have be several day quite alone , and there be no corner of the garden that we have not explore .
We have be in all the room of our father 's palace , and have admire the rich and beautiful furniture : why should not we go into the room that our father forbad u to enter ? '
Sister , ' say the young , ' I can not think how you can tempt u to break our father 's command .
When he tell u not to go into that room he must have know what he be say , and have have a good reason for say it . '
` Surely the sky wo n't fall about our head if we DO go in , ' say the second Princess .
` Dragons and such like monster that would devour u will not be hide in the room .
And how will our father ever find out that we have go in ? '
While they be speak thus , encourage each other , they have reach the room ; the eldest fit the key into the lock , and snap !
the door stand open .
The three girl enter , and what do you think they saw ?
The room be quite empty , and without any ornament , but in the middle stand a large table , with a gorgeous cloth , and on it lay a big open book .
Now the Princesses be curious to know what be write in the book , especially the eldest , and this be what she read : ` The eldest daughter of this King will marry a prince from the East . '
Then the second girl step forward , and turn over the page she read : ` The second daughter of this King will marry a prince from the West . '
The girl be delight , and laugh and tease each other .
But the young Princess do not want to go near the table or to open the book .
Her elder sister however leave her no peace , and will she , nill she , they drag her up to the table , and in fear and tremble she turn over the page and read : ` The young daughter of this King will be marry to a pig from the North . '
Now if a thunderbolt have fall upon her from heaven it would not have frighten her more .
She almost die of misery , and if her sister have not hold her up , she would have sink to the ground and cut her head open .
When she come out of the fainting fit into which she have fall in her terror , her sister try to comfort her , say : ` How can you believe such nonsense ?
When do it ever happen that a king 's daughter marry a pig ? '
` What a baby you be ! '
say the other sister ; ` have not our father enough soldier to protect you , even if the disgusting creature do come to woo you ? '
The young Princess would fain have let herself be convince by her sister ' word , and have believe what they say , but her heart be heavy .
Her thought keep turn to the book , in which stand write that great happiness wait her sister , but that a fate be in store for her such a have never before be know in the world .
Besides , the thought weigh on her heart that she have be guilty of disobey her father .
She begin to get quite ill , and in a few day she be so change that it be difficult to recognise her ; formerly she have be rosy and merry , now she be pale and nothing give her any pleasure .
She give up playing with her sister in the garden , cease to gather flower to put in her hair , and never sing when they sit together at their spinning and sewing .
In the meantime the King win a great victory , and have completely defeat and drive off the enemy , he hurry home to his daughter , to whom his thought have constantly turn .
Everyone go out to meet him with cymbal and fife and drum , and there be great rejoicing over his victorious return .
The King 's first act on reach home be to thank Heaven for the victory he have gain over the enemy who have rise against him .
He then enter his palace , and the three Princesses step forward to meet him .
His joy be great when he saw that they be all well , for the young do her best not to appear sad .
In spite of this , however , it be not long before the King notice that his third daughter be get very thin and sad-looking .
And all of a sudden he felt a if a hot iron be enter his soul , for it flash through his mind that she have disobey his word .
He felt sure he be right ; but to be quite certain he call his daughter to him , question them , and order them to speak the truth .
They confess everything , but take good care not to say which have lead the other two into temptation .
The King be so distressed when he hear it that he be almost overcome by grief .
But he take heart and try to comfort his daughter , who look frighten to death .
He saw that what have happen have happen , and that a thousand word would not alter matter by a hair 's - breadth .
Well , these event have almost be forget when one fine day a prince from the East appear at the Court and ask the King for the hand of his eldest daughter .
The King gladly give his consent .
A great wedding banquet be prepare , and after three day of feast the happy pair be accompany to the frontier with much ceremony and rejoicing .
After some time the same thing befell the second daughter , who be woo and win by a prince from the West .
Now when the young Princess saw that everything fell out exactly a have be write in the book , she grow very sad .
She refuse to eat , and would not put on her fine clothes nor go out walking , and declare that she would rather die than become a laughing-stock to the world .
But the King would not allow her to do anything so wrong , and he comfort her in all possible way .
So the time pass , till lo and behold !
one fine day an enormous pig from the North walk into the palace , and go straight up to the King say , ` Hail !
oh King .
May your life be a prosperous and bright a sunrise on a clear day ! ' '
I be glad to see you well , friend , ' answer the King , ` but what wind have bring you hither ? ' '
I come a-wooing , ' reply the Pig .
Now the King be astonish to hear so fine a speech from a Pig , and at once it occur to him that something strange be the matter .
He would gladly have turn the Pig 's thought in another direction , a he do not wish to give him the Princess for a wife ; but when he hear that the Court and the whole street be full of all the pig in the world he saw that there be no escape , and that he must give his consent .
The Pig be not satisfy with mere promise , but insist that the wedding should take place within a week , and would not go away till the King have swear a royal oath upon it .
The King then send for his daughter , and advise her to submit to fate , a there be nothing else to be do .
And he add : ` My child , the word and whole behaviour of this Pig be quite unlike those of other pig .
I do not myself believe that he always be a pig .
Depend upon it some magic or witchcraft have be at work .
Obey him , and do everything that he wish , and I feel sure that Heaven will shortly send you release . '
` If you wish me to do this , dear father , I will do it , ' reply the girl .
In the meantime the wedding-day drew near .
After the marriage , the Pig and his bride set out for his home in one of the royal carriage .
On the way they pass a great bog , and the Pig order the carriage to stop , and get out and roll about in the mire till he be cover with mud from head to foot ; then he get back into the carriage and tell his wife to kiss him .
What be the poor girl to do ?
She bethink herself of her father 's word , and , pull out her pocket handkerchief , she gently wipe the Pig 's snout and kiss it .
By the time they reach the Pig 's dwelling , which stand in a thick wood , it be quite dark .
They sit down quietly for a little , a they be tire after their drive ; then they have supper together , and lay down to rest .
During the night the Princess notice that the Pig have change into a man .
She be not a little surprised , but remember her father 's word , she take courage , determine to wait and see what would happen .
And now she notice that every night the Pig become a man , and every morning he be change into a Pig before she awake .
This happen several night run , and the Princess could not understand it at all .
Clearly her husband must be bewitch .
In time she grow quite fond of him , he be so kind and gentle .
One fine day a she be sit alone she saw an old witch go past .
She felt quite excite , a it be so long since she have see a human be , and she call out to the old woman to come and talk to her .
Among other thing the witch tell her that she understand all magic art , and that she could foretell the future , and know the heal power of herb and plant . '
I shall be grateful to you all my life , old dame , ' say the Princess , ` if you will tell me what be the matter with my husband .
Why be he a Pig by day and a human be by night ? ' '
I be just go to tell you that one thing , my dear , to show you what a good fortune-teller I be .
If you like , I will give you a herb to break the spell . '
` If you will only give it to me , ' say the Princess , ' I will give you anything you choose to ask for , for I can not bear to see him in this state . '
` Here , then , my dear child , ' say the witch , ` take this thread , but do not let him know about it , for if he do it would lose it heal power .
At night , when he be asleep , you must get up very quietly , and fasten the thread round his left foot as firmly a possible ; and you will see in the morning he will not have change back into a Pig , but will still be a man .
I do not want any reward .
I shall be sufficiently repay by know that you be happy .
It almost break my heart to think of all you have suffer , and I only wish I have know it sooner , a I should have come to your rescue at once . '
When the old witch have go away the Princess hide the thread very carefully , and at night she get up quietly , and with a beating heart she bind the thread round her husband 's foot .
Just a she be pull the knot tight there be a crack , and the thread break , for it be rotten .
Her husband awoke with a start , and say to her , ` Unhappy woman , what have you do ?
Three day more and this unholy spell would have fall from me , and now , who know how long I may have to go about in this disgusting shape ?
I must leave you at once , and we shall not meet again until you have wear out three pair of iron shoe and blunt a steel staff in your search for me . '
So say he disappear .
Now , when the Princess be leave alone she begin to weep and moan in a way that be pitiful to hear ; but when she saw that her tear and groan do her no good , she get up , determine to go wherever fate should lead her .
On reach a town , the first thing she do be to order three pair of iron sandal and a steel staff , and have make these preparation for her journey , she set out in search of her husband .
On and on she wander over nine sea and across nine continent ; through forest with tree whose stem be as thick a beer-barrels ; stumble and knock herself against the fallen branch , then pick herself up and go on ; the bough of the tree hit her face , and the shrub tear her hand , but on she go , and never look back .
At last , weary with her long journey and wear out and overcome with sorrow , but still with hope at her heart , she reach a house .
Now who do you think live there ?
The Moon .
The Princess knock at the door , and beg to be let in that she might rest a little .
The mother of the Moon , when she saw her sad plight , felt a great pity for her , and take her in and nursed and tend her .
And while she be here the Princess have a little baby .
One day the mother of the Moon ask her : ` How be it possible for you , a mortal , to get hither to the house of the Moon ? '
Then the poor Princess tell her all that happen to her , and add ' I shall always be thankful to Heaven for lead me hither , and grateful to you that you take pity on me and on my baby , and do not leave u to die .
Now I beg one last favour of you ; can your daughter , the Moon , tell me where my husband be ? '
` She can not tell you that , my child , ' reply the goddess , ` but , if you will travel towards the East until you reach the dwelling of the Sun , he may be able to tell you something . '
Then she give the Princess a roast chicken to eat , and warn her to be very careful not to lose any of the bone , because they might be of great use to her .
When the Princess have thank her once more for her hospitality and for her good advice , and have throw away one pair of shoe that be wear out , and have put on a second pair , she tie up the chicken bone in a bundle , and take her baby in her arm and her staff in her hand , she set out once more on her wandering .
On and on and on she go across bare sandy desert , where the road be so heavy that for every two step that she take forward she fell back one ; but she struggle on till she have pass these dreary plain ; next she cross high rocky mountain , jump from crag to crag and from peak to peak .
Sometimes she would rest for a little on a mountain , and then start afresh always far and far on .
She have to cross swamp and to scale mountain peak cover with flint , so that her foot and knee and elbow be all torn and bleeding , and sometimes she come to a precipice across which she could not jump , and she have to crawl round on hand and knee , help herself along with her staff .
At length , weary to death , she reach the palace in which the Sun live .
She knock and beg for admission .
The mother of the Sun open the door , and be astonish at behold a mortal from the distant earthly shore , and wept with pity when she hear of all she have suffer .
Then , have promise to ask her son about the Princess 's husband , she hide her in the cellar , so that the Sun might notice nothing on his return home , for he be always in a bad temper when he come in at night .
The next day the Princess fear that thing would not go well with her , for the Sun have notice that some one from the other world have be in the palace .
But his mother have soothe him with soft word , assure him that this be not so .
So the Princess take heart when she saw how kindly she be treat , and ask : ` But how in the world be it possible for the Sun to be angry ?
He be so beautiful and so good to mortal . '
` This be how it happen , ' reply the Sun 's mother .
` In the morning when he stand at the gate of paradise he be happy , and smile on the whole world , but during the day he get cross , because he see all the evil deed of men , and that be why his heat become so scorching ; but in the evening he be both sad and angry , for he stand at the gate of death ; that be his usual course .
From there he come back here . '
She then tell the Princess that she have ask about her hus-band , but that her son have reply that he know nothing about him , and that her only hope be to go and inquire of the Wind .
Before the Princess leave the mother of the Sun give her a roast chicken to eat , and advise her to take great care of the bone , which she do , wrap them up in a bundle .
She then throw away her second pair of shoe , which be quite wear out , and with her child on her arm and her staff in her hand , she set forth on her way to the Wind .
In these wandering she meet with even great difficulty than before , for she come upon one mountain of flint after another , out of which tongue of fire would flame up ; she pass through wood which have never be tread by human foot , and have to cross field of ice and avalanche of snow .
The poor woman nearly die of these hardship , but she keep a brave heart , and at length she reach an enormous cave in the side of a mountain .
This be where the Wind live .
There be a little door in the railing in front of the cave , and here the Princess knock and beg for admission .
The mother of the Wind have pity on her and take her in , that she might rest a little .
Here too she be hide away , so that the Wind might not notice her .
The next morning the mother of the Wind tell her that her husband be live in a thick wood , so thick that no axe have be able to cut a way through it ; here he have build himself a sort of house by place trunk of tree together and fasten them with withe and here he live alone , shun human kind .
After the mother of the Wind have give the Princess a chicken to eat , and have warn her to take care of the bone , she advise her to go by the Milky Way , which at night lie across the sky , and to wander on till she reach her goal .
Having thank the old woman with tear in her eye for her hospitality , and for the good news she have give her , the Princess set out on her journey and rest neither night nor day , so great be her longing to see her husband again .
On and on she walk until her last pair of shoe fell in piece .
So she throw them away and go on with bare foot , not heed the bog nor the thorn that wound her , nor the stone that bruise her .
At last she reach a beautiful green meadow on the edge of a wood .
Her heart be cheer by the sight of the flower and the soft cool grass , and she sit down and rest for a little .
But hear the bird chirp to their mate among the tree make her think with longing of her husband , and she weep bitterly , and take her child in her arm , and her bundle of chicken bone on her shoulder , she enter the wood .
For three day and three night she struggle through it , but could find nothing .
She be quite wear out with weariness and hunger , and even her staff be no further help to her , for in her many wandering it have become quite blunted .
She almost give up in despair , but make one last great effort , and suddenly in a thicket she come upon the sort of house that the mother of the Wind have describe .
It have no window , and the door be up in the roof .
Round the house she go , in search of step , but could find none .
What be she to do ?
How be she to get in ?
She think and think , and try in vain to climb up to the door .
Then suddenly she be-thought her of the chicken bone that she have drag all that weary way , and she say to herself : ` They would not all have tell me to take such good care of these bone if they have not have some good reason for do so .
Perhaps now , in my hour of need , they may be of use to me . '
So she take the bone out of her bundle , and have think for a moment , she place the two end together .
To her surprise they stick tight ; then she add the other bone , till she have two long pole the height of the house ; these she place against the wall , at a distance of a yard from one another .
Across them she place the other bone , piece by piece , like the step of a ladder .
As soon a one step be finish she stand upon it and make the next one , and then the next , till she be close to the door .
But just a she get near the top she notice that there be no bone leave for the last rung of the ladder .
What be she to do ?
Without that last step the whole ladder be useless .
She must have lose one of the bone .
Then suddenly an idea come to her .
Taking a knife she chop off her little finger , and place it on the last step , it stick a the bone have do .
The ladder be complete , and with her child on her arm she enter the door of the house .
Here she find everything in perfect order .
Having take some food , she lay the child down to sleep in a trough that be on the floor , and sit down herself to rest .
When her husband , the Pig , come back to his house , he be startle by what he saw .
At first he could not believe his eye , and star at the ladder of bone , and at the little finger on the top of it .
He felt that some fresh magic must be at work , and in his terror he almost turn away from the house ; but then a good idea come to him , and he change himself into a dove , so that no witchcraft could have power over him , and fly into the room without touch the ladder .
Here he find a woman rock a child .
At the sight of her , look so change by all that she have suffer for his sake , his heart be move by such love and longing and by so great a pity that he suddenly become a man .
The Princess stand up when she saw him , and her heart beat with fear , for she do not know him .
But when he have tell her who he be , in her great joy she forget all her suffering , and they seem a nothing to her .
He be a very handsome man , as straight a a fir tree .
They sit down together and she tell him all her adventure , and he weep with pity at the tale .
And then he tell her his own history . '
I be a King 's son .
Once when my father be fight against some dragon , who be the scourge of our country , I slew the young dragon .
His mother , who be a witch , cast a spell over me and change me into a Pig .
It be she who in the disguise of an old woman give you the thread to bind round my foot .
So that instead of the three day that have to run before the spell be break , I be force to remain a Pig for three more year .
Now that we have suffer for each other , and have find each other again , let u forget the past . '
And in their joy they kiss one another .
Next morning they set out early to return to his father 's kingdom .
Great be the rejoicing of all the people when they saw him and his wife ; his father and his mother embrace them both , and there be feast in the palace for three day and three night .
Then they set out to see her father .
The old King nearly go out of his mind with joy at behold his daughter again .
When she have tell him all her adventure , he say to her : ` Did not I tell you that I be quite sure that that creature who woo and win you a his wife have not be bear a Pig ?
You see , my child , how wise you be in do what I tell you . '
And a the King be old and have no heir , he put them on the throne in his place .
And they rule a only king rule who have suffer many thing .
And if they be not dead they be still live and rule happily .
-LRB- 8 -RRB- -LRB- 8 -RRB- Rumanische Marchen ubersetzt von Nite Kremnitz .
THE NORKA ONCE upon a time there live a King and Queen .
They have three son , two of them with their wit about them , but the third a simpleton .
Now the King have a deer park in which be quantity of wild animal of different kind .
Into that park there use to come a huge beast -- Norka be it name -- and do fearful mischief , devour some of the animal every night .
The King do all he could , but he be unable to destroy it .
So at last he call his son together and say , ` Whoever will destroy the Norka , to him will I give the half of my kingdom . '
Well , the eldest son undertake the task .
As soon a it be night , he take his weapon and set out .
But before he reach the park , he go into a traktir -LRB- or tavern -RRB- , and there he spend the whole night in revelry .
When he come to his sens it be too late ; the day have already dawn .
He felt himself disgrace in the eye of his father , but there be no help for it .
The next day the second son go , and do just the same .
Their father scold them both soundly , and there be an end of it .
Well , on the third day the young son undertake the task .
They all laugh him to scorn , because he be so stupid , feeling sure he would n't do anything .
But he take his arm , and go straight into the park , and sit down on the grass in such a position that the moment he go asleep his weapon would prick him , and he would awake .
Presently the midnight hour sound .
The earth begin to shake , and the Norka come rush up , and burst right through the fence into the park , so huge be it .
The Prince pull himself together , leapt to his foot , cross himself , and go straight at the beast .
It flee back , and the Prince ran after it .
But he soon saw that he could n't catch it on foot , so he hasten to the stable , lay his hand on the best horse there , and set off in pursuit .
Presently he come up with the beast , and they begin a fight .
They fight and fight ; the Prince give the beast three wound .
At last they be both utterly exhaust , so they lay down to take a short rest .
But the moment the Prince close his eye , up jump the beast and take to flight .
The Prince 's horse awake him ; up he jump in a moment , and set off again in pursuit , catch up the beast , and again begin fight with it .
Again the Prince give the beast three wound , and then he and the beast lay down again to rest .
Thereupon away flee the beast a before .
The Prince catch it up , and again give it three wound .
But all of a sudden , just a the Prince begin chase it for the fourth time , the beast flee to a great white stone , tilt it up , and escape into the other world , cry out to the Prince : ` Then only will you overcome me , when you enter here . '
The Prince go home , tell his father all that have happen , and ask him to have a leather rope plait , long enough to reach to the other world .
His father order this to be do .
When the rope be make , the Prince call for his brother , and he and they , have take servant with them , and everything that be need for a whole year , set out for the place where the beast have disappear under the stone .
When they get there , they build a palace on the spot , and live in it for some time .
But when everything be ready , the young brother say to the others : ` Now , brother , who be go to lift this stone ? '
Neither of them could so much a stir it , but as soon a he touch it , away it fly to a distance , though it be ever so big -- big a a hill .
And when he have fling the stone aside , he speak a second time to his brother , say : ` Who be go into the other world , to overcome the Norka ? '
Neither of them offer to do so .
Then he laugh at them for be such coward , and say : ` Well , brother , farewell !
Lower me into the other world , and do n't go away from here , but as soon a the cord be jerk , pull it up . '
His brother lower him accordingly , and when he have reach the other world , underneath the earth , he go on his way .
He walk and walk .
Presently he espy a horse with rich trapping , and it say to him : ` Hail , Prince Ivan !
Long have I await thee ! '
He mount the horse and rode on -- rode and rode , until he saw stand before him a palace make of copper .
He enter the courtyard , tie up his horse , and go indoors .
In one of the room a dinner be lay out .
He sit down and din , and then go into a bedroom .
There he find a bed , on which he lay down to rest .
Presently there come in a lady , more beautiful than can be imagine anywhere but in a fairy tale , who say : ` Thou who art in my house , name thyself !
If thou art an old man , thou shalt be my father ; if a middle-aged man , my brother ; but if a young man , thou shalt be my husband dear .
And if thou art a woman , and an old one , thou shalt be my grandmother ; if middle-aged , my mother ; and if a girl , thou shalt be my own sister . '
Thereupon he come forth .
And when she saw him she be delight with him , and say : ` Wherefore , O Prince Ivan -- my husband dear shalt thou be !
-- wherefore hast thou come hither ? '
Then he tell her all that have happen , and she say : ` That beast which thou wishest to overcome be my brother .
He be stay just now with my second sister , who live not far from here in a silver palace .
I bind up three of the wound which thou didst give him . '
Well , after this they drink , and enjoy themselves , and hold sweet converse together , and then the Prince take leave of her , and go on to the second sister , the one who live in the silver palace , and with her also he stay awhile .
She tell him that her brother Norka be then at her young sister 's .
So he go on to the young sister , who live in a golden palace .
She tell him that her brother be at that time asleep on the blue sea , and she give him a sword of steel and a draught of the Water of Strength , and she tell him to cut off her brother 's head at a single stroke .
And when he have hear these thing , he go his way .
And when the Prince come to the blue sea , he look -- there slept the Norka on a stone in the middle of the sea ; and when it snore , the water be agitate for seven mile around .
The Prince cross himself , go up to it , and smite it on the head with his sword .
The head jump off , say the while , ` Well , I 'm do for now ! '
and roll far away into the sea .
After kill the beast , the Prince go back again , pick up all the three sister by the way , with the intention of take them out into the upper world : for they all love him and would not be separate from him .
Each of them turn her palace into an egg -- for they be all enchantress -- and they teach him how to turn the egg into palace , and back again , and they hand over the egg to him .
And then they all go to the place from which they have to be hoist into the upper world .
And when they come to where the rope be , the Prince take hold of it and make the maiden fast to it .
Then he jerk away at the rope and his brother begin to haul it up .
And when they have haul it up , and have set eye on the wondrous maiden , they go aside and say : ` Let 's low the rope , pull our brother part of the way up , and then cut the rope .
Perhaps he 'll be kill ; but then if he be n't , he 'll never give u these beauty a wife . '
So when they have agree on this , they lower the rope .
But their brother be no fool ; he guess what they be at , so he fasten the rope to a stone , and then give it a pull .
His brother hoist the stone to a great height , and then cut the rope .
Down fell the stone and break in piece ; the Prince pour forth tear and go away .
Well , he walk and walk .
Presently a storm arose ; the lightning flash , the thunder roar , the rain fell in torrent .
He go up to a tree in order to take shelter under it , and on that tree he saw some young bird which be be thoroughly drench .
So he take off his coat and cover them over with it , and he himself sit down under the tree .
Presently there come fly a bird -- such a big one that the light be blot out by it .
It have be dark there before , but now it become darker still .
Now this be the mother of those small bird which the Prince have cover up .
And when the bird have come fly up , she perceive that her little one be cover over , and she say , ` Who have wrap up my nestling ? '
and presently , see the Prince , she add : ` Didst thou do that ?
Thanks !
In return , ask of me anything thou desirest .
I will do anything for thee . '
` Then carry me into the other world , ' he reply .
` Make me a large vessel with a partition in the middle , ' she say ; ` catch all sort of game , and put them into one half of it , and into the other half pour water ; so that there may be meat and drink for me . '
All this the Prince do .
Then the bird -- have take the vessel on her back , with the Prince sitting in the middle of it -- begin to fly .
And after fly some distance she bring him to his journey 's end , take leave of him , and fly away back .
But he go to the house of a certain tailor , and engage himself a his servant .
So much the worse for wear be he , so thoroughly have he alter in appearance , that nobody would have suspect him of be a Prince .
Having enter into the service of this master , the Prince begin to ask what be go on in that country .
And his master reply : ` Our two Princes -- for the third one have disappear -- have bring away bride from the other world , and want to marry them , but those bride refuse .
For they insist on have all their wedding-clothes make for them first , exactly like those which they use to have in the other world , and that without be measure for them .
The King have call all the workman together , but not one of them will undertake to do it . '
The Prince , have hear all this , say , ` Go to the King , master , and tell him that you will provide everything that 's in your line . '
` However can I undertake to make clothes of that sort ?
I work for quite common folk , ' say his master .
` Go along , master !
I will answer for everything , ' say the Prince .
So the tailor go .
The King be delight that at least one good workman have be find , and give him a much money a ever he want .
When his tailor have settle everything , he go home .
And the Prince say to him : ` Now then , pray to God , and lie down to sleep ; to-morrow all will be ready . '
And the tailor follow his lad 's advice , and go to bed .
Midnight sound .
The Prince arose , go out of the city into the field , take out of his pocket the egg which the maiden have give him , and , a they have teach him , turn them into three palace .
Into each of these he enter , take the maiden ' robe , go out again , turn the palace back into egg , and go home .
And when he get there he hang up the robe on the wall , and lay down to sleep .
Early in the morning his master awoke , and behold !
there hung such robe a he have never see before , all shin with gold and silver and precious stone .
He be delight , and he seize them and carry them off to the King .
When the Princesses saw that the clothes be those which have be theirs in the other world , they guess that Prince Ivan be in this world , so they exchange glance with each other , but they hold their peace .
And the master , have hand over the clothes , go home , but he no longer find his dear journeyman there .
For the Prince have go to a shoemaker 's , and him too he send to work for the King ; and in the same way he go the round of all the artificer , and they all proffer him thanks , inasmuch a through him they be enrich by the King .
By the time the princely workman have go the round of all the artificer , the Princesses have receive what they have ask for ; all their clothes be just like what they have be in the other world .
Then they weep bitterly because the Prince have not come , and it be impossible for them to hold out any longer ; it be necessary that they should be marry .
But when they be ready for the wedding , the young bride say to the King : ` Allow me , my father , to go and give alms to the beggar . '
He give her leave , and she go and begin bestow alms upon them , and examine them closely .
And when she have come to one of them , and be go to give him some money , she catch sight of the ring which she have give to the Prince in the other world , and her sister ' ring too -- for it really be he .
So she seize him by the hand , and bring him into the hall , and say to the King : ` Here be he who bring u out of the other world .
His brother forbid u to say that he be alive , threaten to slay u if we do . '
Then the King be wroth with those son , and punish them a he think best .
And afterwards three wedding be celebrate .
THE WONDERFUL BIRCH ONCE upon a time there be a man and a woman , who have an only daughter .
Now it happen that one of their sheep go astray , and they set out to look for it , and search and search , each in a different part of the wood .
Then the good wife meet a witch , who say to her : ` If you spit , you miserable creature , if you spit into the sheath of my knife , or if you run between my leg , I shall change you into a black sheep . '
The woman neither spat , nor do she run between her leg , but yet the witch change her into a sheep .
Then she make herself look exactly like the woman , and call out to the good man : ` Ho , old man , halloa !
I have find the sheep already ! '
The man think the witch be really his wife , and he do not know that his wife be the sheep ; so he go home with her , glad at heart because his sheep be find .
When they be safe at home the witch say to the man : ` Look here , old man , we must really kill that sheep lest it run away to the wood again . '
The man , who be a peaceable quiet sort of fellow , make no objection , but simply say : ` Good , let u do so . '
The daughter , however , have overhear their talk , and she run to the flock and lament aloud : ` Oh , dear little mother , they be go to slaughter you ! '
` Well , then , if they do slaughter me , ' be the black sheep 's answer , ` eat you neither the meat nor the broth that be make of me , but gather all my bone , and bury them by the edge of the field . '
Shortly after this they take the black sheep from the flock and slaughter it .
The witch make pease-soup of it , and set it before the daughter .
But the girl remember her mother 's warning .
She do not touch the soup , but she carry the bone to the edge of the field and bury them there ; and there spring up on the spot a birch tree -- a very lovely birch tree .
Some time have pass away -- who can tell how long they might have be live there ?
-- when the witch , to whom a child have be bear in the meantime , begin to take an ill-will to the man 's daughter , and to torment her in all sort of way .
Now it happen that a great festival be to be hold at the palace , and the King have command that all the people should be invite , and that this proclamation should be make : ` Come , people all !
Poor and wretched , one and all !
Blind and cripple though ye be , Mount your steed or come by sea . '
And so they drive into the King 's feast all the outcast , and the maim , and the halt , and the blind .
In the good man 's house , too , preparation be make to go to the palace .
The witch say to the man : ` Go you on in front , old man , with our young ; I will give the elder girl work to keep her from be dull in our absence . '
So the man take the child and set out .
But the witch kindle a fire on the hearth , throw a potful of barleycorn among the cinder , and say to the girl : ` If you have not pick the barley out of the ash , and put it all back in the pot before nightfall , I shall eat you up ! '
Then she hasten after the others , and the poor girl stay at home and wept .
She try to be sure to pick up the grain of barley , but she soon saw how useless her labour be ; and so she go in her sore trouble to the birch tree on her mother 's grave , and cry and cry , because her mother lay dead beneath the sod and could help her no longer .
In the midst of her grief she suddenly hear her mother 's voice speak from the grave , and say to her : ` Why do you weep , little daughter ? '
` The witch have scatter barleycorn on the hearth , and bid me pick them out of the ash , ' say the girl ; ` that be why I weep , dear little mother . '
` Do not weep , ' say her mother consolingly .
` Break off one of my branch , and strike the hearth with it crosswise , and all will be put right . '
The girl do so .
She strike the hearth with the birchen branch , and lo !
the barleycorn fly into the pot , and the hearth be clean .
Then she go back to the birch tree and lay the branch upon the grave .
Then her mother bid her bathe on one side of the stem , dry herself on another , and dress on the third .
When the girl have do all that , she have grow so lovely that no one on earth could rival her .
Splendid clothing be give to her , and a horse , with hair partly of gold , partly of silver , and partly of something more precious still .
The girl sprang into the saddle , and rode as swift a an arrow to the palace .
As she turn into the courtyard of the castle the King 's son come out to meet her , tie her steed to a pillar , and lead her in .
He never leave her side a they pass through the castle room ; and all the people gaze at her , and wonder who the lovely maiden be , and from what castle she come ; but no one know her -- no one know anything about her .
At the banquet the Prince invite her to sit next him in the place of honour ; but the witch 's daughter gnaw the bone under the table .
The Prince do not see her , and think it be a dog , he give her such a push with his foot that her arm be break .
Are you not sorry for the witch 's daughter ?
It be not her fault that her mother be a witch .
Towards even the good man 's daughter think it be time to go home ; but a she go , her ring catch on the latch of the door , for the King 's son have have it smear with tar .
She do not take time to pull it off , but , hastily unfasten her horse from the pillar , she ride away beyond the castle wall as swift a an arrow .
Arrived at home , she take off her clothes by the birch tree , leave her horse standing there , and hasten to her place behind the stove .
In a short time the man and the woman come home again too , and the witch say to the girl : ` Ah !
you poor thing , there you be to be sure !
You do n't know what fine time we have have at the palace !
The King 's son carry my daughter about , but the poor thing fell and break her arm . '
The girl know well how matter really stand , but she pretend to know nothing about it , and sit dumb behind the stove .
The next day they be invite again to the King 's banquet .
` Hey !
old man , ' say the witch , ` get on your clothes as quick a you can ; we be bidden to the feast .
Take you the child ; I will give the other one work , l she weary . '
She kindle the fire , throw a potful of hemp seed among the ash , and say to the girl : ` If you do not get this sort , and all the seed back into the pot , I shall kill you ! '
The girl weep bitterly ; then she go to the birch tree , wash herself on one side of it and dry herself on the other ; and this time still fine clothes be give to her , and a very beautiful steed .
She break off a branch of the birch tree , strike the hearth with it , so that the seed fly into the pot , and then hasten to the castle .
Again the King 's son come out to meet her , tie her horse to a pillar , and lead her into the banquet hall .
At the feast the girl sit next him in the place of honour , a she have do the day before .
But the witch 's daughter gnaw bone under the table , and the Prince give her a push by mistake , which break her leg -- he have never notice her crawl about among the people 's foot .
She be VERY unlucky !
The good man 's daughter hasten home again betimes , but the King 's son have smear the door-posts with tar , and the girl 's golden circlet stuck to it .
She have not time to look for it , but spring to the saddle and rode like an arrow to the birch tree .
There she leave her horse and her fine clothes , and say to her mother : ' I have lose my circlet at the castle ; the door-post be tar , and it stick fast . '
` And even have you lose two of them , ' answer her mother , ' I would give you fine one . '
Then the girl hasten home , and when her father come home from the feast with the witch , she be in her usual place behind the stove .
Then the witch say to her : ` You poor thing !
what be there to see here compare with what WE have see at the palace ?
The King 's son carry my daughter from one room to another ; he let her fall , 't be true , and my child 's foot be break . '
The man 's daughter hold her peace all the time , and busy herself about the hearth .
The night pass , and when the day begin to dawn , the witch awaken her husband , cry : ` Hi !
get up , old man !
We be bidden to the royal banquet . '
So the old man get up .
Then the witch give him the child , say : ` Take you the little one ; I will give the other girl work to do , else she will weary at home alone . '
She do as usual .
This time it be a dish of milk she pour upon the ash , say : ` If you do not get all the milk into the dish again before I come home , you will suffer for it . '
How frighten the girl be this time !
She run to the birch tree , and by it magic power her task be accomplish ; and then she ride away to the palace a before .
When she get to the courtyard she find the Prince waiting for her .
He lead her into the hall , where she be highly honour ; but the witch 's daughter suck the bone under the table , and crouch at the people 's foot she get an eye knock out , poor thing !
Now no one know any more than before about the good man 's daughter , no one know whence she come ; but the Prince have have the threshold smear with tar , and a she flee her gold slipper stick to it .
She reach the birch tree , and lay aside her finery , she say : ` Alas I dear little mother , I have lose my gold slipper ! '
` Let them be , ' be her mother 's reply ; ` if you need them I shall give you fine one . '
Scarcely be she in her usual place behind the stove when her father come home with the witch .
Immediately the witch begin to mock her , say : ` Ah !
you poor thing , there be nothing for you to see here , and WE -- ah : what great thing we have see at the palace !
My little girl be carry about again , but have the ill-luck to fall and get her eye knock out .
You stupid thing , you , what do you know about anything ? '
` Yes , indeed , what can I know ? '
reply the girl ; ' I have enough to do to get the hearth clean . '
Now the Prince have keep all the thing the girl have lose , and he soon set about find the owner of them .
For this purpose a great banquet be give on the fourth day , and all the people be invite to the palace .
The witch get ready to go too .
She tie a wooden beetle on where her child 's foot should have be , a log of wood instead of an arm , and stick a bit of dirt in the empty socket for an eye , and take the child with her to the castle .
When all the people be gather together , the King 's son step in among the crowd and cry : ` The maiden whose finger this ring slip over , whose head this golden hoop encircles , and whose foot this shoe fit , shall be my bride . '
What a great try on there be now among them all !
The thing would fit no one , however .
` The cinder wench be not here , ' say the Prince at last ; ` go and fetch her , and let her try on the thing . '
So the girl be fetch , and the Prince be just go to hand the ornament to her , when the witch hold him back , say : ` Do n't give them to her ; she soil everything with cinder ; give them to my daughter rather . '
Well , then the Prince give the witch 's daughter the ring , and the woman file and par away at her daughter 's finger till the ring fit .
It be the same with the circlet and the shoe of gold .
The witch would not allow them to be hand to the cinder wench ; she work at her own daughter 's head and foot till she get the thing force on .
What be to be do now ?
The Prince have to take the witch 's daughter for his bride whether he would or no ; he sneak away to her father 's house with her , however , for he be ashamed to hold the wedding festivity at the palace with so strange a bride .
Some day pass , and at last he have to take his bride home to the palace , and he get ready to do so .
Just a they be take leave , the kitchen wench spring down from her place by the stove , on the pretext of fetch something from the cowhouse , and in go by she whisper in the Prince 's ear a he stand in the yard : ` Alas !
dear Prince , do not rob me of my silver and my gold . '
Thereupon the King 's son recognise the cinder wench ; so he take both the girl with him , and set out .
After they have go some little way they come to the bank of a river , and the Prince throw the witch 's daughter across to serve a a bridge , and so get over with the cinder wench .
There lay the witch 's daughter then , like a bridge over the river , and could not stir , though her heart be consume with grief .
No help be near , so she cry at last in her anguish : ` May there grow a golden hemlock out of my body !
perhaps my mother will know me by that token . '
Scarcely have she speak when a golden hemlock spring up from her , and stand upon the bridge .
Now , as soon a the Prince have get rid of the witch 's daughter he greet the cinder wench a his bride , and they wander together to the birch tree which grow upon the mother 's grave .
There they receive all sort of treasure and rich , three sack full of gold , and as much silver , and a splendid steed , which bore them home to the palace .
There they live a long time together , and the young wife bore a son to the Prince .
Immediately word be bring to the witch that her daughter have bear a son -- for they all believe the young King 's wife to be the witch 's daughter .
` So , so , ' say the witch to herself ; ' I have well away with my gift for the infant , then . '
And so say she set out .
Thus it happen that she come to the bank of the river , and there she saw the beautiful golden hemlock grow in the middle of the bridge , and when she begin to cut it down to take to her grandchild , she hear a voice moaning : ` Alas !
dear mother , do not cut me so ! '
` Are you here ? '
demand the witch .
` Indeed I be , dear little mother , ' answer the daughter ` They throw me across the river to make a bridge of me . '
In a moment the witch have the bridge shiver to atom , and then she hasten away to the palace .
Stepping up to the young Queen 's bed , she begin to try her magic art upon her , say : ` Spit , you wretch , on the blade of my knife ; bewitch my knife 's blade for me , and I shall change you into a reindeer of the forest . '
` Are you there again to bring trouble upon me ? '
say the young woman .
She neither spat nor do anything else , but still the witch change her into a reindeer , and smuggle her own daughter into her place a the Prince 's wife .
But now the child grow restless and cry , because it miss it mother 's care .
They take it to the court , and try to pacify it in every conceivable way , but it cry never cease .
` What make the child so restless ? '
ask the Prince , and he go to a wise widow woman to ask her advice .
` Ay , ay , your own wife be not at home , ' say the widow woman ; ` she be live like a reindeer in the wood ; you have the witch 's daughter for a wife now , and the witch herself for a mother-in-law . '
` Is there any way of get my own wife back from the wood again ? '
ask the Prince .
` Give me the child , ' answer the widow woman .
` I 'll take it with me to-morrow when I go to drive the cow to the wood .
I 'll make a rustling among the birch leave and a trembling among the aspen -- perhaps the boy will grow quiet when he hear it . '
` Yes , take the child away , take it to the wood with you to quiet it , ' say the Prince , and lead the widow woman into the castle .
` How now ?
you be go to send the child away to the wood ? '
say the witch in a suspicious tone , and try to interfere .
But the King 's son stand firm by what he have command , and say : ` Carry the child about the wood ; perhaps that will pacify it . '
So the widow woman take the child to the wood .
She come to the edge of a marsh , and see a herd of reindeer there , she begin all at once to sing -- ` Little Bright-eyes , little Redskin , Come nurse the child you bore !
That bloodthirsty monster , That man-eater grim , Shall nurse him , shall tend him no more .
They may threaten and force a they will , He turn from her , shrink from her still , ' and immediately the reindeer draw near , and nursed and tend the child the whole day long ; but at nightfall it have to follow the herd , and say to the widow woman : ` Bring me the child to-morrow , and again the following day ; after that I must wander with the herd far away to other land . '
The following morning the widow woman go back to the castle to fetch the child .
The witch interfere , of course , but the Prince say : ` Take it , and carry it about in the open air ; the boy be quieter at night , to be sure , when he have be in the wood all day . '
So the widow take the child in her arm , and carry it to the marsh in the forest .
There she sing a on the preceding day -- ` Little Bright-eyes , little Redskin , Come nurse the child you bore !
That bloodthirsty monster , That man-eater grim , Shall nurse him , shall tend him no more .
They may threaten and force a they will , He turn from her , shrink from her still , ' and immediately the reindeer leave the herd and come to the child , and tend it a on the day before .
And so it be that the child throve , till not a finer boy be to be see anywhere .
But the King 's son have be ponder over all these thing , and he say to the widow woman : ` Is there no way of change the reindeer into a human be again ? ' '
I do n't rightly know , ' be her answer .
` Come to the wood with me , however ; when the woman put off her reindeer skin I shall comb her head for her ; whilst I be do so you must burn the skin . '
Thereupon they both go to the wood with the child ; scarcely be they there when the reindeer appear and nurse the child a before .
Then the widow woman say to the reindeer : ` Since you be go far away to-morrow , and I shall not see you again , let me comb your head for the last time , a a remembrance of you . '
Good ; the young woman stript off the reindeer skin , and let the widow woman do a she wish .
In the meantime the King 's son throw the reindeer skin into the fire unobserved .
` What smell of singe here ? '
ask the young woman , and look round she saw her own husband .
` Woe be me !
you have burn my skin .
Why do you do that ? '
` To give you back your human form again . '
` Alack-a-day !
I have nothing to cover me now , poor creature that I be ! '
cry the young woman , and transform herself first into a distaff , then into a wooden beetle , then into a spindle , and into all imaginable shape .
But all these shape the King 's son go on destroying till she stand before him in human form again .
Alas !
wherefore take me home with you again , ' cry the young woman , ` since the witch be sure to eat me up ? '
` She will not eat you up , ' answer her husband ; and they start for home with the child .
But when the witch wife saw them she run away with her daughter , and if she have not stop she be run still , though at a great age .
And the Prince , and his wife , and the baby live happy ever afterwards .
-LRB- 9 -RRB- -LRB- 9 -RRB- From the Russo-Karelian .
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK JACK SELLS THE COW ONCE upon a time there be a poor widow who live in a little cottage with her only son Jack .
Jack be a giddy , thoughtless boy , but very kind-hearted and affectionate .
There have be a hard winter , and after it the poor woman have suffer from fever and ague .
Jack do no work as yet , and by degree they grow dreadfully poor .
The widow saw that there be no mean of keep Jack and herself from starvation but by sell her cow ; so one morning she say to her son , ' I be too weak to go myself , Jack , so you must take the cow to market for me , and sell her . '
Jack like go to market to sell the cow very much ; but a he be on the way , he meet a butcher who have some beautiful bean in his hand .
Jack stop to look at them , and the butcher tell the boy that they be of great value , and persuade the silly lad to sell the cow for these bean .
When he bring them home to his mother instead of the money she expect for her nice cow , she be very vexed and shed many tear , scold Jack for his folly .
He be very sorry , and mother and son go to bed very sadly that night ; their last hope seem go .
At daybreak Jack rise and go out into the garden .
` At least , ' he think , ' I will sow the wonderful bean .
Mother say that they be just common scarlet-runners , and nothing else ; but I may as well sow them . '
So he take a piece of stick , and make some hole in the ground , and put in the bean .
That day they have very little dinner , and go sadly to bed , know that for the next day there would be none and Jack , unable to sleep from grief and vexation , get up at day-dawn and go out into the garden .
What be his amazement to find that the bean have grow up in the night , and climb up and up till they cover the high cliff that shelter the cottage , and disappear above it !
The stalk have twin and twist themselves together till they form quite a ladder .
` It would be easy to climb it , ' think Jack .
And , have think of the experiment , he at once resolve to carry it out , for Jack be a good climber .
However , after his late mistake about the cow , he think he have well consult his mother first .
WONDERFUL GROWTH OF THE BEANSTALK So Jack call his mother , and they both gaze in silent wonder at the Beanstalk , which be not only of great height , but be thick enough to bear Jack 's weight . '
I wonder where it end , ' say Jack to his mother ; ' I think I will climb up and see . '
His mother wish him not to venture up this strange ladder , but Jack coax her to give her consent to the attempt , for he be certain there must be something wonderful in the Beanstalk ; so at last she yield to his wish .
Jack instantly begin to climb , and go up and up on the ladder-like bean till everything he have leave behind him -- the cottage , the village , and even the tall church tower -- look quite little , and still he could not see the top of the Beanstalk .
Jack felt a little tired , and think for a moment that he would go back again ; but he be a very persevering boy , and he know that the way to succeed in anything be not to give up .
So after rest for a moment he go on .
After climb high and high , till he grow afraid to look down for fear he should be giddy , Jack at last reach the top of the Beanstalk , and find himself in a beautiful country , finely wooded , with beautiful meadow cover with sheep .
A crystal stream run through the pasture ; not far from the place where he have get off the Beanstalk stand a fine , strong castle .
Jack wonder very much that he have never hear of or see this castle before ; but when he reflect on the subject , he saw that it be as much separate from the village by the perpendicular rock on which it stand a if it be in another land .
While Jack be stand look at the castle , a very strange-looking woman come out of the wood , and advance towards him .
She wear a pointed cap of quilted red satin turn up with ermine , her hair stream loose over her shoulder , and she walk with a staff .
Jack take off his cap and make her a bow .
` If you please , ma'am , ' say he , ` be this your house ? '
` No , ' say the old lady .
` Listen , and I will tell you the story of that castle .
` Once upon a time there be a noble knight , who live in this castle , which be on the border of Fairyland .
He have a fair and beloved wife and several lovely child : and a his neighbour , the little people , be very friendly towards him , they bestow on him many excellent and precious gift .
` Rumour whisper of these treasure ; and a monstrous giant , who live at no great distance , and who be a very wicked be , resolve to obtain possession of them .
` So he bribe a false servant to let him inside the castle , when the knight be in bed and asleep , and he kill him a he lay .
Then he go to the part of the castle which be the nursery , and also kill all the poor little one he find there .
` Happily for her , the lady be not to be find .
She have go with her infant son , who be only two or three month old , to visit her old nurse , who live in the valley ; and she have be detain all night there by a storm .
` The next morning , as soon a it be light , one of the servant at the castle , who have manage to escape , come to tell the poor lady of the sad fate of her husband and her pretty babe .
She could scarcely believe him at first , and be eager at once to go back and share the fate of her dear one ; but the old nurse , with many tear , beseech her to remember that she have still a child , and that it be her duty to preserve her life for the sake of the poor innocent .
` The lady yield to this reasoning , and consent to remain at her nurse 's house a the best place of concealment ; for the servant tell her that the giant have vow , if he could find her , he would kill both her and her baby .
Years roll on .
The old nurse die , leave her cottage and the few article of furniture it contain to her poor lady , who dwell in it , work a a peasant for her daily bread .
Her spinning-wheel and the milk of a cow , which she have purchase with the little money she have with her , suffice for the scanty subsistence of herself and her little son .
There be a nice little garden attach to the cottage , in which they cultivate pea , bean , and cabbage , and the lady be not ashamed to go out at harvest time , and glean in the field to supply her little son 's want .
` Jack , that poor lady be your mother .
This castle be once your father 's , and must again be yours . '
Jack utter a cry of surprise .
` My mother !
oh , madam , what ought I to do ?
My poor father !
My dear mother ! '
` Your duty require you to win it back for your mother .
But the task be a very difficult one , and full of peril , Jack .
Have you courage to undertake it ? ' '
I fear nothing when I be do right , ' say Jack .
` Then , ' say the lady in the red cap , ` you be one of those who slay giant .
You must get into the castle , and if possible posse yourself of a hen that lay golden egg , and a harp that talk .
Remember , all the giant posse be really yours . '
As she cease speaking , the lady of the red hat suddenly disappear , and of course Jack know she be a fairy .
Jack determine at once to attempt the adventure ; so he advance , and blow the horn which hung at the castle portal .
The door be open in a minute or two by a frightful giantess , with one great eye in the middle of her forehead .
As soon a Jack saw her he turn to run away , but she catch him , and drag him into the castle .
` Ho , ho ! '
she laugh terribly .
` You do n't expect to see me here , that be clear !
No , I sha n't let you go again .
I be weary of my life .
I be so overworked , and I do n't see why I should not have a page as well a other lady .
And you shall be my boy .
You shall clean the knife , and black the boot , and make the fire , and help me generally when the giant be out .
When he be at home I must hide you , for he have eat up all my page hitherto , and you would be a dainty morsel , my little lad . '
While she speak she drag Jack right into the castle .
The poor boy be very much frighten , a I be sure you and I would have be in his place .
But he remember that fear disgrace a man ; so he struggle to be brave and make the best of thing . '
I be quite ready to help you , and do all I can to serve you , madam , ' he say , ` only I beg you will be good enough to hide me from your husband , for I should not like to be eat at all . '
` That 's a good boy , ' say the Giantess , nod her head ; ` it be lucky for you that you do not scream out when you saw me , a the other boy who have be here do , for if you have do so my husband would have awaken and have eat you , a he do them , for breakfast .
Come here , child ; go into my wardrobe : he never venture to open THAT ; you will be safe there . '
And she open a huge wardrobe which stand in the great hall , and shut him into it .
But the keyhole be so large that it ad-mitted plenty of air , and he could see everything that take place through it .
By-and-by he hear a heavy tramp on the stair , like the lumber along of a great cannon , and then a voice like thunder cry out ; ` Fe , fa , fi-fo-fum , I smell the breath of an Englishman .
Let him be alive or let him be dead , I 'll grind his bone to make my bread . '
` Wife , ' cry the Giant , ` there be a man in the castle .
Let me have him for breakfast . '
` You be grow old and stupid , ' cry the lady in her loud tone .
` It be only a nice fresh steak off an elephant , that I have cook for you , which you smell .
There , sit down and make a good breakfast . '
And she place a huge dish before him of savoury steam meat , which greatly please him , and make him forget his idea of an Englishman be in the castle .
When he have breakfast he go out for a walk ; and then the Giantess open the door , and make Jack come out to help her .
He help her all day .
She feed him well , and when even come put him back in the wardrobe .
THE HEN THAT LAYS GOLDEN EGGS .
The Giant come in to supper .
Jack watch him through the keyhole , and be amaze to see him pick a wolf 's bone , and put half a fowl at a time into his capacious mouth .
When the supper be end he bid his wife bring him his hen that lay the golden egg .
` It lay as well a it do when it belong to that paltry knight , ' he say ; ` indeed I think the egg be heavy than ever . '
The Giantess go away , and soon return with a little brown hen , which she place on the table before her husband .
` And now , my dear , ' she say , ' I be go for a walk , if you do n't want me any longer . '
` Go , ' say the Giant ; ' I shall be glad to have a nap by-and-by . '
Then he take up the brown hen and say to her : ` Lay ! '
And she instantly lay a golden egg .
` Lay ! '
say the Giant again .
And she lay another .
` Lay ! '
he repeat the third time .
And again a golden egg lay on the table .
Now Jack be sure this hen be that of which the fairy have speak .
By-and-by the Giant put the hen down on the floor , and soon after go fast asleep , snore so loud that it sound like thunder .
Directly Jack perceive that the Giant be fast asleep , he push open the door of the wardrobe and creep out ; very softly he steal across the room , and , pick up the hen , make haste to quit the apartment .
He know the way to the kitchen , the door of which he find be leave ajar ; he open it , shut and lock it after him , and fly back to the Beanstalk , which he descend as fast a his foot would move .
When his mother saw him enter the house she weep for joy , for she have fear that the fairy have carry him away , or that the Giant have find him .
But Jack put the brown hen down before her , and tell her how he have be in the Giant 's castle , and all his adventure .
She be very glad to see the hen , which would make them rich once more .
THE MONEY BAGS .
Jack make another journey up the Beanstalk to the Giant 's castle one day while his mother have go to market ; but first he dye his hair and disguise himself .
The old woman do not know him again , and drag him in a she have do before , to help her to do the work ; but she hear her husband come , and hide him in the wardrobe , not think that it be the same boy who have steal the hen .
She bid him stay quite still there , or the Giant would eat him .
Then the Giant come in say : ` Fe , fa , fi-fo-fum , I smell the breath of an Englishman .
Let him be alive or let him be dead , I 'll grind his bone to make my bread . '
` Nonsense ! '
say the wife , ` it be only a roasted bullock that I think would be a tit-bit for your supper ; sit down and I will bring it up at once . '
The Giant sit down , and soon his wife bring up a roasted bullock on a large dish , and they begin their supper .
Jack be amaze to see them pick the bone of the bullock a if it have be a lark .
As soon a they have finish their meal , the Giantess rise and say : ` Now , my dear , with your leave I be go up to my room to finish the story I be read .
If you want me call for me . '
` First , ' answer the Giant , ` bring me my money bag , that I may count my golden piece before I sleep . '
The Giantess obey .
She go and soon return with two large bag over her shoulder , which she put down by her husband .
` There , ' she say ; ` that be all that be leave of the knight 's money .
When you have spend it you must go and take another baron 's castle . '
` That he sha n't , if I can help it , ' think Jack .
The Giant , when his wife be go , take out heap and heap of golden piece , and count them , and put them in pile , till he be tire of the amusement .
Then he sweep them all back into their bag , and lean back in his chair fell fast asleep , snore so loud that no other sound be audible .
Jack stole softly out of the wardrobe , and take up the bag of money -LRB- which be his very own , because the Giant have steal them from his father -RRB- , he run off , and with great difficulty descend the Beanstalk , lay the bag of gold on his mother 's table .
She have just return from town , and be cry at not find Jack .
` There , mother , I have bring you the gold that my father lose . '
` Oh , Jack !
you be a very good boy , but I wish you would not risk your precious life in the Giant 's castle .
Tell me how you come to go there again . '
And Jack tell her all about it .
Jack 's mother be very glad to get the money , but she do not like him to run any risk for her .
But after a time Jack make up his mind to go again to the Giant 's castle .
THE TALKING HARP .
So he climb the Beanstalk once more , and blow the horn at the Giant 's gate .
The Giantess soon open the door ; she be very stupid , and do not know him again , but she stop a minute before she take him in .
She fear another robbery ; but Jack 's fresh face look so innocent that she could not resist him , and so she bid him come in , and again hide him away in the wardrobe .
By-and-by the Giant come home , and as soon a he have cross the threshold he roar out : ` Fe , fa , fi-fo-fum , I smell the breath of an Englishman .
Let him be alive or let him be dead , I 'll grind his bone to make my bread . '
` You stupid old Giant , ' say his wife , ` you only smell a nice sheep , which I have grill for your dinner . '
And the Giant sit down , and his wife bring up a whole sheep for his dinner .
When he have eat it all up , he say : ` Now bring me my harp , and I will have a little music while you take your walk . '
The Giantess obey , and return with a beautiful harp .
The framework be all sparkle with diamond and ruby , and the string be all of gold .
` This be one of the nice thing I take from the knight , ' say the Giant . '
I be very fond of music , and my harp be a faithful servant . '
So he draw the harp towards him , and say : ` Play ! '
And the harp play a very soft , sad air .
` Play something merry ! '
say the Giant .
And the harp play a merry tune .
` Now play me a lullaby , ' roar the Giant ; and the harp play a sweet lullaby , to the sound of which it master fell asleep .
Then Jack stole softly out of the wardrobe , and go into the huge kitchen to see if the Giantess have go out ; he find no one there , so he go to the door and open it softly , for he think he could not do so with the harp in his hand .
Then he enter the Giant 's room and seize the harp and run away with it ; but a he jump over the threshold the harp call out : ` MASTER !
MASTER ! '
And the Giant wake up .
With a tremendous roar he spring from his seat , and in two stride have reach the door .
But Jack be very nimble .
He flee like lightning with the harp , talk to it a he go -LRB- for he saw it be a fairy -RRB- , and tell it he be the son of it old master , the knight .
Still the Giant come on so fast that he be quite close to poor Jack , and have stretch out his great hand to catch him .
But , luckily , just at that moment he step upon a loose stone , stumble , and fell flat on the ground , where he lay at his full length .
This accident give Jack time to get on the Beanstalk and hasten down it ; but just a he reach their own garden he behold the Giant descending after him .
` Mother I mother ! '
cry Jack , ` make haste and give me the axe . '
His mother run to him with a hatchet in her hand , and Jack with one tremendous blow cut through all the Beanstalks except one .
` Now , mother , stand out of the way ! '
say he .
THE GIANT BREAKS HIS NECK .
Jack 's mother shrink back , and it be well she do so , for just a the Giant take hold of the last branch of the Beanstalk , Jack cut the stem quite through and dart from the spot .
Down come the Giant with a terrible crash , and a he fell on his head , he break his neck , and lay dead at the foot of the woman he have so much injure .
Before Jack and his mother have recover from their alarm and agitation , a beautiful lady stand before them .
` Jack , ' say she , ` you have act like a brave knight 's son , and deserve to have your inheritance restore to you .
Dig a grave and bury the Giant , and then go and kill the Giantess . '
` But , ' say Jack , ' I could not kill anyone unless I be fight with him ; and I could not draw my sword upon a woman .
Moreover , the Giantess be very kind to me . '
The Fairy smile on Jack . '
I be very much please with your generous feeling , ' she say .
` Nevertheless , return to the castle , and act a you will find needful . '
Jack ask the Fairy if she would show him the way to the castle , a the Beanstalk be now down .
She tell him that she would drive him there in her chariot , which be draw by two peacock .
Jack thank her , and sit down in the chariot with her .
The Fairy drive him a long distance round , till they reach a village which lay at the bottom of the hill .
Here they find a number of miserable-looking men assemble .
The Fairy stop her carriage and address them : ` My friend , ' say she , ` the cruel giant who oppress you and eat up all your flock and herd be dead , and this young gentleman be the mean of your be deliver from him , and be the son of your kind old master , the knight . '
The men give a loud cheer at these word , and press forward to say that they would serve Jack as faithfully a they have serve his father .
The Fairy bid them follow her to the castle , and they march thither in a body , and Jack blow the horn and demand admittance .
The old Giantess saw them come from the turret loop-hole .
She be very much frighten , for she guess that something have happen to her husband ; and a she come downstairs very fast she catch her foot in her dress , and fell from the top to the bottom and break her neck .
When the people outside find that the door be not open to them , they take crowbar and force the portal .
Nobody be to be see , but on leave the hall they find the body of the Giantess at the foot of the stair .
Thus Jack take possession of the castle .
The Fairy go and bring his mother to him , with the hen and the harp .
He have the Giantess bury , and endeavour as much a lay in his power to do right to those whom the Giant have rob .
Before her departure for fairyland , the Fairy explain to Jack that she have send the butcher to meet him with the bean , in order to try what sort of lad he be .
If you have look at the gigantic Beanstalk and only stupidly wonder about it , ' she say , ' I should have leave you where misfortune have place you , only restore her cow to your mother .
But you show an inquiring mind , and great courage and enterprise , therefore you deserve to rise ; and when you mount the Beanstalk you climb the Ladder of Fortune . '
She then take her leave of Jack and his mother .
THE LITTLE GOOD MOUSE ONCE upon a time there live a King and Queen who love each other so much that they be never happy unless they be together .
Day after day they go out hunting or fishing ; night after night they go to ball or to the opera ; they sing , and dance , and eat sugar-plums , and be the gay of the gay , and all their subject follow their example so that the kingdom be call the Joyous Land .
Now in the next kingdom everything be as different a it could possibly be .
The King be sulky and savage , and never enjoy himself at all .
He look so ugly and cross that all his subject fear him , and he hat the very sight of a cheerful face ; so if he ever catch anyone smiling he have his head cut off that very minute .
This kingdom be very appropriately call the Land of Tears .
Now when this wicked King heard of the happiness of the Jolly King , he be so jealous that he collect a great army and set out to fight him , and the news of his approach be soon bring to the King and Queen .
The Queen , when she hear of it , be frighten out of her wit , and begin to cry bitterly .
` Sire , ' she say , ` let u collect all our rich and run away as far a ever we can , to the other side of the world . '
But the King answer : ` Fie , madam !
I be far too brave for that .
It be well to die than to be a coward . '
Then he assemble all his arm men , and after bid the Queen a tender farewell , he mount his splendid horse and ride away .
When he be lose to sight the Queen could do nothing but weep , and wring her hand , and cry .
` Alas !
If the King be kill , what will become of me and of my little daughter ? '
and she be so sorrowful that she could neither eat nor sleep .
The King send her a letter every day , but at last , one morning , a she look out of the palace window , she saw a messenger approach in hot haste .
` What news , courier ?
What news ? '
cry the Queen , and he answer : ` The battle be lose and the King be dead , and in another moment the enemy will be here . '
The poor Queen fell back insensible , and all her lady carry her to bed , and stand round her weeping and wailing .
Then begin a tremendous noise and confusion , and they know that the enemy have arrive , and very soon they hear the King himself stamp about the palace seek the Queen .
Then her lady put the little Princess into her arm , and cover her up , head and all , in the bedclothes , and run for their life , and the poor Queen lay there shake , and hop she would not be find .
But very soon the wicked King clatter into the room , and in a fury because the Queen would not answer when he call to her , he tear back her silken covering and tweak off her lace cap , and when all her lovely hair come tumble down over her shoulder , he wind it three time round his hand and throw her over his shoulder , where he carry her like a sack of flour .
The poor Queen hold her little daughter safe in her arm and shriek for mercy , but the wicked King only mock her , and beg her to go on shrieking , a it amuse him , and so mount his great black horse , and ride back to his own country .
When he get there he declare that he would have the Queen and the little Princess hang on the near tree ; but his courtier say that seem a pity , for when the baby grow up she would be a very nice wife for the King 's only son .
The King be rather pleased with this idea , and shut the Queen up in the high room of a tall tower , which be very tiny , and miserably furnish with a table and a very hard bed upon the floor .
Then he send for a fairy who live near his kingdom , and after receive her with more politeness than he generally show , and entertain her at a sumptuous feast , he take her up to see the Queen .
The fairy be so touch by the sight of her misery that when she kiss her hand she whisper : ` Courage , madam !
I think I see a way to help you . '
The Queen , a little comfort by these word , receive her graciously , and beg her to take pity upon the poor little Princess , who have meet with such a sudden reverse of fortune .
But the King get very cross when he saw them whisper together , and cry harshly : ` Make an end of these fine speech , madam .
I bring you here to tell me if the child will grow up pretty and fortunate . '
Then the Fairy answer that the Princess would be a pretty , and clever , and well bring up a it be possible to be , and the old King growl to the Queen that it be lucky for her that it be so , a they would certainly have be hang if it be otherwise .
Then he stamp off , take the Fairy with him , and leave the poor Queen in tear .
` How can I wish my little daughter to grow up pretty if she be to be marry to that horrid little dwarf , the King 's son , ' she say to herself , ` and yet , if she be ugly we shall both be kill .
If I could only hide her away somewhere , so that the cruel King could never find her . '
As the day go on , the Queen and the little Princess grow thinner and thinner , for their hard-hearted gaoler give them every day only three boil pea and a tiny morsel of black bread , so they be always terribly hungry .
At last , one evening , a the Queen sat at her spinning-wheel -- for the King be so avaricious that she be make to work day and night -- she saw a tiny , pretty little mouse creep out of a hole , and say to it : ` Alas , little creature !
what be you come to look for here ?
I only have three pea for my day 's provision , so unless you wish to fast you must go elsewhere . '
But the mouse run hither and thither , and dance and caper so prettily , that at last the Queen give it her last pea , which she be keep for her supper , say : ` Here , little one , eat it up ; I have nothing well to offer you , but I give this willingly in return for the amusement I have have from you . '
She have hardly speak when she saw upon the table a delicious little roast partridge , and two dish of preserved fruit .
` Truly , ' say she , ' a kind action never go unrewarded ; ` and she and the little Princess eat their supper with great satisfaction , and then the Queen give what be leave to the little mouse , who dance good than ever afterwards .
The next morning come the gaoler with the Queen 's allowance of three pea , which he bring in upon a large dish to make them look small ; but as soon a he set it down the little mouse come and eat up all three , so that when the Queen want her dinner there be nothing left for her .
Then she be quite provoke , and say : ` What a bad little beast that mouse must be !
If it go on like this I shall be starve . '
But when she glance at the dish again it be cover with all sort of nice thing to eat , and the Queen make a very good dinner , and be gayer than usual over it .
But afterwards a she sit at her spinning-wheel she begin to consider what would happen if the little Princess do not grow up pretty enough to please the King , and she say to herself : ` Oh !
if I could only think of some way of escape . '
As she speak she saw the little mouse playing in a corner with some long straw .
The Queen take them and begin to plait them , say : ` If only I have straw enough I would make a basket with them , and let my baby down in it from the window to any kind passer-by who would take care of her . '
By the time the straw be all plait the little mouse have drag in more and more , until the Queen have plenty to make her basket , and she work at it day and night , while the little mouse dance for her amusement ; and at dinner and supper time the Queen give it the three pea and the bit of black bread , and always find something good in the dish in their place .
She really could not imagine where all the nice thing come from .
At last one day when the basket be finish , the Queen be look out of the window to see how long a cord she must make to lower it to the bottom of the tower , when she notice a little old woman who be lean upon her stick and look up at her .
Presently she say : ' I know your trouble , madam .
If you like I will help you . '
` Oh !
my dear friend , ' say the Queen .
` If you really wish to be of use to me you will come at the time that I will appoint , and I will let down my poor little baby in a basket .
If you will take her , and bring her up for me , when I be rich I will reward you splendidly . ' '
I do n't care about the reward , ' say the old woman , ` but there be one thing I should like .
You must know that I be very particular about what I eat , and if there be one thing that I fancy above all others , it be a plump , tender little mouse .
If there be such a thing in your garret just throw it down to me , and in return I will promise that your little daughter shall be well take care of . '
The Queen when she hear this begin to cry , but make no answer , and the old woman after wait a few minute ask her what be the matter .
` Why , ' say the Queen , ` there be only one mouse in this garret , and that be such a dear , pretty little thing that I can not bear to think of it be kill . '
` What ! '
cry the old woman , in a rage .
` Do you care more for a miserable mouse than for your own baby ?
Good-bye , madam !
I leave you to enjoy it company , and for my own part I thank my star that I can get plenty of mouse without trouble you to give them to me . '
And she hobble off grumble and growl .
As to the Queen , she be so disappointed that , in spite of find a good dinner than usual , and see the little mouse dance in it merry mood , she could do nothing but cry .
That night when her baby be fast asleep she pack it into the basket , and write on a slip of paper , ` This unhappy little girl be call Delicia ! '
This she pin to it robe , and then very sadly she be shut the basket , when in sprang the little mouse and sat on the baby 's pillow .
` Ah !
little one , ' say the Queen , ` it cost me dear to save your life .
How shall I know now whether my Delicia be be take care of or no ?
Anyone else would have let the greedy old woman have you , and eat you up , but I could not bear to do it . '
Whereupon the Mouse answer : ` Believe me , madam , you will never repent of your kindness . '
The Queen be immensely astonish when the Mouse begin to speak , and still more so when she saw it little sharp nose turn to a beautiful face , and it paw to hand and foot ; then it suddenly grow tall , and the Queen recognise the Fairy who have come with the wicked King to visit her .
The Fairy smile at her astonished look , and say : ' I want to see if you be faithful and capable of feel a real friendship for me , for you see we fairy be rich in everything but friend , and those be hard to find . '
` It be not possible that YOU should want for friend , you charm creature , ' say the Queen , kiss her .
` Indeed it be so , ' the Fairy say .
` For those who be only friendly with me for their own advantage , I do not count at all .
But when you care for the poor little mouse you could not have know there be anything to be gain by it , and to try you further I take the form of the old woman whom you talk to from the window , and then I be convince that you really love me . '
Then , turn to the little Princess , she kiss her rosy lip three time , say : ` Dear little one , I promise that you shall be rich than your father , and shall live a hundred year , always pretty and happy , without fear of old age and wrinkle . '
The Queen , quite delighted , thank the Fairy gratefully , and beg her to take charge of the little Delicia and bring her up a her own daughter .
This she agree to do , and then they shut the basket and lower it carefully , baby and all , to the ground at the foot of the tower .
The Fairy then change herself back into the form of a mouse , and this delay her a few second , after which she run nimbly down the straw rope , but only to find when she get to the bottom that the baby have disappear .
In the great terror she run up again to the Queen , cry : ` All be lose !
my enemy Cancaline have steal the Princess away .
You must know that she be a cruel fairy who hat me , and a she be old than I be and have more power , I can do nothing against her .
I know no way of rescue Delicia from her clutch . '
When the Queen heard this terrible news she be heart-broken , and beg the Fairy to do all she could to get the poor little Princess back again .
At this moment in come the gaoler , and when he miss the little Princess he at once tell the King , who come in a great fury ask what the Queen have do with her .
She answer that a fairy , whose name she do not know , have come and carry her off by force .
Upon this the King stamp upon the ground , and cry in a terrible voice : ` You shall be hung !
I always tell you you should . '
And without another word he drag the unlucky Queen out into the near wood , and climb up into a tree to look for a branch to which he could hang her .
But when he be quite high up , the Fairy , who have make herself invisible and follow them , give him a sudden push , which make him lose his footing and fall to the ground with a crash and break four of his teeth , and while he be try to mend them the fairy carry the Queen off in her fly chariot to a beautiful castle , where she be so kind to her that but for the loss of Delicia the Queen would have be perfectly happy .
But though the good little mouse do her very utmost , they could not find out where Cancaline have hide the little Princess .
Thus fifteen year go by , and the Queen have somewhat recover from her grief , when the news reach her that the son of the wicked King wish to marry the little maiden who keep the turkey , and that she have refuse him ; the wedding-dresses have be make , nevertheless , and the festivity be to be so splendid that all the people for league round be flock in to be present at them .
The Queen felt quite curious about a little turkey-maiden who do not wish to be a Queen , so the little mouse convey herself to the poultry-yard to find out what she be like .
She find the turkey-maiden sit upon a big stone , barefooted , and miserably dress in an old , coarse linen gown and cap ; the ground at her foot be all strewn with robe of gold and silver , ribbon and lace , diamond and pearl , over which the turkey be stalk to and fro , while the King 's ugly , disagreeable son stand opposite her , declare angrily that if she would not marry him she should be kill .
The Turkey-maiden answer proudly : ' I never will marry you I you be too ugly and too much like your cruel father .
Leave me in peace with my turkey , which I like far good than all your fine gift . '
The little mouse watch her with the great admiration , for she be as beautiful a the spring ; and as soon a the wicked Prince be go , she take the form of an old peasant woman and say to her : ` Good day , my pretty one !
you have a fine flock of turkey there . '
The young Turkey-maiden turn her gentle eye upon the old woman , and answer : ` Yet they wish me to leave them to become a miserable Queen !
what be your advice upon the matter ? '
` My child , ' say the Fairy , ' a crown be a very pretty thing , but you know neither the price nor the weight of it . ' '
I know so well that I have refuse to wear one , ' say the little maiden , ` though I do n't know who be my father , or who be my mother , and I have not a friend in the world . '
` You have goodness and beauty , which be of more value than ten kingdom , ' say the wise Fairy .
` But tell me , child , how come you here , and how be it you have neither father , nor mother , nor friend ? ' '
A Fairy call Cancaline be the cause of my be here , ' answer she , ` for while I live with her I get nothing but blow and harsh word , until at last I could bear it no longer , and run away from her without know where I be go , and a I come through a wood the wicked Prince meet me , and offer to give me charge of the poultry-yard .
I accept gladly , not know that I should have to see him day by day .
And now he want to marry me , but that I will never consent to . '
Upon hear this the Fairy become convinced that the little Turkey-maiden be none other than the Princess Delicia .
` What be your name , my little one ? '
say she . '
I be call Delicia , if it please you , ' she answer .
Then the Fairy throw her arm round the Princess 's neck , and nearly smother her with kiss , say : ` Ah , Delicia !
I be a very old friend of yours , and I be truly glad to find you at last ; but you might look nice than you do in that old gown , which be only fit for a kitchen-maid .
Take this pretty dress and let u see the difference it will make . '
So Delicia take off the ugly cap , and shake out all her fair shining hair , and bath her hand and face in clear water from the near spring till her cheek be like rose , and when she be adorn with the diamond and the splendid robe the Fairy have give her , she look the most beautiful Princess in the world , and the Fairy with great delight cry : ` Now you look a you ought to look , Delicia : what do you think about it yourself ? '
And Delicia answer : ' I feel a if I be the daughter of some great king . '
` And would you be glad if you be ? '
say the Fairy .
` Indeed I should , ' answer she .
` Ah , well , ' say the Fairy , ` to-morrow I may have some pleasant news for you . '
So she hurry back to her castle , where the Queen sit busy with her embroidery , and cry : ` Well , madam !
will you wager your thimble and your golden needle that I be bring you the best news you could possibly hear ? '
` Alas ! '
sigh the Queen , ` since the death of the Jolly King and the loss of my Delicia , all the news in the world be not worth a pin to me .
` There , there , do n't be melancholy , ' say the Fairy . '
I assure you the Princess be quite well , and I have never see her equal for beauty .
She might be a Queen to-morrow if she choose ; ` and then she tell all that have happen , and the Queen first rejoice over the thought of Delicia 's beauty , and then weep at the idea of her be a Turkey-maiden . '
I will not hear of her be make to marry the wicked King 's son , ' she say .
` Let u go at once and bring her here . '
In the meantime the wicked Prince , who be very angry with Delicia , have sit himself down under a tree , and cry and howl with rage and spite until the King hear him , and cry out from the window : ` What be the matter with you , that you be make all this disturbance ? '
The Prince reply : ` It be all because our Turkey-maiden will not love me ! '
` Wo n't love you ?
eh ! '
say the King .
` We 'll very soon see about that ! '
So he call his guard and tell them to go and fetch Delicia .
` See if I do n't make her change her mind pretty soon ! '
say the wicked King with a chuckle .
Then the guard begin to search the poultry-yard , and could find nobody there but Delicia , who , with her splendid dress and her crown of diamond , look such a lovely Princess that they hardly dare to speak to her .
But she say to them very politely : ` Pray tell me what you be look for here ? '
` Madam , ' they answer , ` we be send for an insignificant little person call Delicia . '
` Alas ! '
say she , ` that be my name .
What can you want with me ? '
So the guard tie her hand and foot with thick rope , for fear she might run away , and bring her to the King , who be wait with his son .
When he saw her he be very much astonish at her beauty , which would have make anyone less hard-hearted sorry for her .
But the wicked King only laugh and mock at her , and cry : ` Well , little fright , little toad !
why do n't you love my son , who be far too handsome and too good for you ?
Make haste and begin to love him this instant , or you shall be tar and feather . '
Then the poor little Princess , shake with terror , go down on her knee , cry : ` Oh , do n't tar and feather me , please !
It would be so uncomfortable .
Let me have two or three day to make up my mind , and then you shall do a you like with me . '
The wicked Prince would have like very much to see her tarred and feathered , but the King order that she should be shut up in a dark dungeon .
It be just at this moment that the Queen and the Fairy arrive in the fly chariot , and the Queen be dreadfully distress at the turn affair have take , and say miserably that she be destine to be unfortunate all her day .
But the Fairy bid her take courage .
` I 'll pay them out yet , ' say she , nod her head with an air of great determination .
That very same night , as soon a the wicked King have go to bed , the Fairy change herself into the little mouse , and creep up on to his pillow nibble his ear , so that he squeal out quite loudly and turn over on his other side ; but that be no good , for the little mouse only set to work and gnaw away at the second ear until it hurt more than the first one .
Then the King cry ` Murder ! '
and ` Thieves ! '
and all his guard run to see what be the matter , but they could find nothing and nobody , for the little mouse have run off to the Prince 's room and be serve him in exactly the same way .
All night long she run from one to the other , until at last , driven quite frantic by terror and want of sleep , the King rush out of the palace cry : ` Help !
help !
I be pursue by rat . '
The Prince when he hear this get up also , and run after the King , and they have not go far when they both fell into the river and be never hear of again .
Then the good Fairy ran to tell the Queen , and they go together to the black dungeon where Delicia be imprison .
The Fairy touch each door with her wand , and it spring open instantly , but they have to go through forty before they come to the Princess , who be sit on the floor look very deject .
But when the Queen rush in , and kiss her twenty time in a minute , and laugh , and cry , and tell Delicia all her history , the Princess be wild with delight .
Then the Fairy show her all the wonderful dress and jewel she have bring for her , and say : ` Do n't let u waste time ; we must go and harangue the people . '
So she walk first , look very serious and dignified , and wear a dress the train of which be at least ten ell long .
Behind her come the Queen wear a blue velvet robe embroider with gold , and a diamond crown that be bright than the sun itself .
Last of all walked Delicia , who be so beautiful that it be nothing short of marvellous .
They proceed through the street , return the salutation of all they meet , great or small , and all the people turn and follow them , wonder who these noble lady could be .
When the audience hall be quite full , the Fairy say to the subject of the Wicked King that if they would accept Delicia , who be the daughter of the Jolly King , a their Queen , she would undertake to find a suitable husband for her , and would promise that during their reign there should be nothing but rejoice and merry-making , and all dismal thing should be entirely banish .
Upon this the people cry with one accord , ` We will , we will !
we have be gloomy and miserable too long already . '
And they all take hand and dance round the Queen , and Delicia , and the good Fairy , singing : ` Yes , yes ; we will , we will ! '
Then there be feast and firework in every street in the town , and early the next morning the Fairy , who have be all over the world in the night , bring back with her , in her fly chariot , the most handsome and good-tempered Prince she could find anywhere .
He be so charming that Delicia love him from the moment their eye meet , and a for him , of course he could not help think himself the lucky Prince in the world .
The Queen felt that she have really come to the end of her misfortune at last , and they all live happily ever after .
-LRB- 10 -RRB- -LRB- 10 -RRB- La bonne vetite Souris ' par Madame d'Aulnoy .
GRACIOSA AND PERCINET ONCE upon a time there live a King and Queen who have one charming daughter .
She be so graceful and pretty and clever that she be call Graciosa , and the Queen be so fond of her that she could think of nothing else .
Everyday she give the Princess a lovely new frock of gold brocade , or satin , or velvet , and when she be hungry she have bowl full of sugar-plums , and at least twenty pot of jam .
Everybody say she be the happy Princess in the world .
Now there live at this same court a very rich old duchess whose name be Grumbly .
She be more frightful than tongue can tell ; her hair be red a fire , and she have but one eye , and that not a pretty one !
Her face be as broad a a full moon , and her mouth be so large that everybody who meet her would have be afraid they be go to be eat up , only she have no teeth .
As she be as cross a she be ugly , she could not bear to hear everyone say how pretty and how charming Graciosa be ; so she presently go away from the court to her own castle , which be not far off .
But if anybody who go to see her happen to mention the charming Princess , she would cry angrily : ` It 's not true that she be lovely .
I have more beauty in my little finger than she have in her whole body . '
Soon after this , to the great grief of the Princess , the Queen be take ill and die , and the King become so melancholy that for a whole year he shut himself up in his palace .
At last his physician , fear that he would fall ill , order that he should go out and amuse himself ; so a hunt party be arrange , but a it be very hot weather the King soon get tire , and say he would dismount and rest at a castle which they be pass .
This happen to be the Duchess Grumbly 's castle , and when she hear that the King be come she go out to meet him , and say that the cellar be the cool place in the whole castle if he would condescend to come down into it .
So down they go together , and the King see about two hundred great cask range side by side , ask if it be only for herself that she have this immense store of wine .
` Yes , sire , ' answer she , ` it be for myself alone , but I shall be most happy to let you taste some of it .
Which do you like , canary , St. Julien , champagne , hermitage sack , raisin , or cider ? '
` Well , ' say the King , ` since you be so kind a to ask me , I prefer champagne to anything else . '
Then Duchess Grumbly take up a little hammer and tap upon the cask twice , and out come at least a thousand crown .
` What 's the meaning of this ? '
say she smile .
Then she tap the next cask , and out come a bushel of gold piece . '
I do n't understand this at all , ' say the Duchess , smile more than before .
Then she go on to the third cask , tap , tap , and out come such a stream of diamond and pearl that the ground be cover with them .
` Ah ! '
she cry , ` this be altogether beyond my comprehension , sire .
Someone must have steal my good wine and put all this rubbish in it place . '
` Rubbish , do you call it , Madam Grumbly ? '
cry the King .
` Rubbish !
why there be enough there to buy ten kingdom . '
` Well , ' say she , ` you must know that all those cask be full of gold and jewel , and if you like to marry me it shall all be yours . '
Now the King love money more than anything else in the world , so he cry joyfully : ` Marry you ?
why with all my heart !
to-morrow if you like . '
` But I make one condition , ' say the Duchess ; ' I must have entire control of your daughter to do a I please with her . '
` Oh certainly , you shall have your own way ; let u shake hand upon the bargain , ' say the King .
So they shake hand and go up out of the cellar of treasure together , and the Duchess lock the door and give the key to the King .
When he get back to his own palace Graciosa run out to meet him , and ask if he have have good sport . '
I have catch a dove , ' answer he .
` Oh !
do give it to me , ' say the Princess , ` and I will keep it and take care of it . ' '
I can hardly do that , ' say he , ` for , to speak more plainly , I mean that I meet the Duchess Grumbly , and have promise to marry her . '
` And you call her a dove ? '
cry the Princess . '
I should have call her a screech owl . '
` Hold your tongue , ' say the King , very crossly . '
I intend you to behave prettily to her .
So now go and make yourself fit to be see , a I be go to take you to visit her . '
So the Princess go very sorrowfully to her own room , and her nurse , see her tear , ask what be vex her .
` Alas !
who would not be vex ? '
answer she , ` for the King intend to marry again , and have choose for his new bride my enemy , the hideous Duchess Grumbly . '
` Oh , well ! '
answer the nurse , ` you must remember that you be a Princess , and be expect to set a good example in make the best of whatever happens .
You must promise me not to let the Duchess see how much you dislike her . '
At first the Princess would not promise , but the nurse show her so many good reason for it that in the end she agree to be amiable to her step-mother .
Then the nurse dress her in a robe of pale green and gold brocade , and comb out her long fair hair till it float round her like a golden mantle , and put on her head a crown of rose and jasmine with emerald leaf .
When she be ready nobody could have be pretty , but she still could not help look sad .
Meanwhile the Duchess Grumbly be also occupy in attire herself .
She have one of her shoe heel make an inch or so high than the other , that she might not limp so much , and put in a cunningly make glass eye in the place of the one she have lose .
She dye her red hair black , and paint her face .
Then she put on a gorgeous robe of lilac satin line with blue , and a yellow petticoat trim with violet ribbon , and because she have hear that queen always ride into their new dominion , she order a horse to be make ready for her to ride .
While Graciosa be wait until the King should be ready to set out , she go down all alone through the garden into a little wood , where she sit down upon a mossy bank and begin to think .
And her thought be so doleful that very soon she begin to cry , and she cry , and cry , and forget all about go back to the palace , until she suddenly saw a handsome page stand before her .
He be dress in green , and the cap which he hold in his hand be adorn with white plume .
When Graciosa look at him he go down on one knee , and say to her : ` Princess , the King awaits you . '
The Princess be surprise , and , if the truth must be tell , very much delight at the appearance of this charming page , whom she could not remember to have see before .
Thinking he might belong to the household of the Duchess , she say : ` How long have you be one of the King 's page ? ' '
I be not in the service of the King , madam , ' answer he , ` but in yours . '
` In mine ? '
say the Princess with great surprise .
` Then how be it that I have never see you before ? '
` Ah , Princess ! '
say he , ' I have never before dare to present myself to you , but now the King 's marriage threaten you with so many danger that I have resolve to tell you at once how much I love you already , and I trust that in time I may win your regard .
I be Prince Percinet , of whose rich you may have hear , and whose fairy gift will , I hope , be of use to you in all your difficulty , if you will permit me to accompany you under this disguise . '
` Ah , Percinet ! '
cry the Princess , ` be it really you ?
I have so often heard of you and wish to see you .
If you will indeed be my friend , I shall not be afraid of that wicked old Duchess any more . '
So they go back to the palace together , and there Graciosa find a beautiful horse which Percinet have bring for her to ride .
As it be very spirited he lead it by the bridle , and this arrangement enable him to turn and look at the Princess often , which he do not fail to do .
Indeed , she be so pretty that it be a real pleasure to look at her .
When the horse which the Duchess be to ride appeared beside Graciosa 's , it look no good than an old cart horse , and a to their trapping , there be simply no comparison between them , a the Princess 's saddle and bridle be one glitter mass of diamond .
The King have so many other thing to think of that he do not notice this , but all his courtier be entirely take up with admire the Princess and her charming Page in green , who be more handsome and distinguished-looking than all the rest of the court put together .
When they meet the Duchess Grumbly she be seat in an open carriage try in vain to look dignified .
The King and the Princess salute her , and her horse be bring forward for her to mount .
But when she saw Graciosa 's she cry angrily : ` If that child be to have a good horse than mine , I will go back to my own castle this very minute .
What be the good of be a Queen if one be to be slight like this ? '
Upon this the King command Graciosa to dismount and to beg the Duchess to honour her by mount her horse .
The Princess obey in silence , and the Duchess , without look at her or thank her , scramble up upon the beautiful horse , where she sit look like a bundle of clothes , and eight officer have to hold her up for fear she should fall off .
Even then she be not satisfy , and be still grumble and muttering , so they ask her what be the matter . '
I wish that Page in green to come and lead the horse , a he do when Graciosa ride it , ' say she very sharply .
And the King order the Page to come and lead the Queen 's horse .
Percinet and the Princess look at one another , but say never a word , and then he do a the King command , and the procession start in great pomp .
The Duchess be greatly elate , and a she sit there in state would not have wish to change place even with Graciosa .
But at the moment when it be least expect the beautiful horse begin to plunge and rear and kick , and finally to run away at such a pace that it be impossible to stop him .
At first the Duchess clung to the saddle , but she be very soon throw off and fell in a heap among the stone and thorn , and there they find her , shake to a jelly , and collect what be leave of her a if she have be a broken glass .
Her bonnet be here and her shoe there , her face be scratch , and her fine clothes be cover with mud .
Never be a bride see in such a dismal plight .
They carry her back to the palace and put her to bed , but as soon a she recover enough to be able to speak , she begin to scold and rage , and declare that the whole affair be Graciosa 's fault , that she have contrive it on purpose to try and get rid of her , and that if the King would not have her punish , she would go back to her castle and enjoy her rich by herself .
At this the King be terribly frighten , for he do not at all want to lose all those barrel of gold and jewel .
So he hasten to appease the Duchess , and tell her she might punish Graciosa in any way she please .
Thereupon she send for Graciosa , who turn pale and tremble at the summons , for she guess that it promise nothing agreeable for her .
She look all about for Percinet , but he be nowhere to be see ; so she have no choice but to go to the Duchess Grumbly 's room .
She have hardly get inside the door when she be seize by four wait woman , who look so tall and strong and cruel that the Princess shudder at the sight of them , and still more when she saw them arm themselves with great bundle of rod , and hear the Duchess call out to them from her bed to beat the Princess without mercy .
Poor Graciosa wish miserably that Percinet could only know what be happen and come to rescue her .
But no sooner do they begin to beat her than she find , to her great relief , that the rod have change to bundle of peacock 's feather , and though the Duchess 's woman go on till they be so tired that they could no longer raise their arm from their side , yet she be not hurt in the least .
However , the Duchess think she must be black and blue after such a beating ; so Graciosa , when she be release , pretend to feel very bad , and go away into her own room , where she tell her nurse all that have happen , and then the nurse leave her , and when the Princess turn round there stood Percinet beside her .
She thank him gratefully for help her so cleverly , and they laugh and be very merry over the way they have take in the Duchess and her waiting-maids ; but Percinet advise her still to pretend to be ill for a few day , and after promise to come to her aid whenever she need him , he disappear as suddenly a he have come .
The Duchess be so delighted at the idea that Graciosa be really ill , that she herself recover twice as fast a she would have do otherwise , and the wedding be hold with great magnificence .
Now a the King know that , above all other thing , the Queen love to be tell that she be beautiful , he order that her portrait should be paint , and that a tournament should be hold , at which all the brave knight of his court should maintain against all comer that Grumbly be the most beautiful princess in the world .
Numbers of knight come from far and wide to accept the challenge , and the hideous Queen sat in great state in a balcony hung with cloth of gold to watch the contest , and Graciosa have to stand up behind her , where her loveliness be so conspicuous that the combatant could not keep their eye off her .
But the Queen be so vain that she think all their admiring glance be for herself , especially a , in spite of the badness of their cause , the King 's knight be so brave that they be the victor in every combat .
However , when nearly all the stranger have be defeat , a young unknown knight present himself .
He carry a portrait , enclose in a bow encrust with diamond , and he declare himself willing to maintain against them all that the Queen be the ugly creature in the world , and that the Princess whose portrait he carry be the most beautiful .
So one by one the knight come out against him , and one by one he vanquish them all , and then he open the box , and say that , to console them , he would show them the portrait of his Queen of Beauty , and when he do so everyone recognise the Princess Graciosa .
The unknown knight then salute her gracefully and retire , without tell his name to anybody .
But Graciosa have no difficulty in guess that it be Percinet .
As to the Queen , she be so furiously angry that she could hardly speak ; but she soon recover her voice , and overwhelm Graciosa with a torrent of reproach .
` What ! '
she say , ` do you dare to dispute with me for the prize of beauty , and expect me to endure this insult to my knight ?
But I will not bear it , proud Princess .
I will have my revenge . ' '
I assure you , Madam , ' say the Princess , ` that I have nothing to do with it and be quite willing that you shall be declare Queen of Beauty ` Ah !
you be pleased to jest , popinjay ! '
say the Queen , ` but it will be my turn soon ! '
The King be speedily tell what have happen , and how the Princess be in terror of the angry Queen , but he only say : ` The Queen must do a she please .
Graciosa belong to her ! '
The wicked Queen wait impatiently until night fell , and then she order her carriage to be bring .
Graciosa , much against her will , be force into it , and away they drive , and never stop until they reach a great forest , a hundred league from the palace .
This forest be so gloomy , and so full of lion , tiger , bear and wolf , that nobody dare pas through it even by daylight , and here they set down the unhappy Princess in the middle of the black night , and leave her in spite of all her tear and entreaty .
The Princess stand quite still at first from sheer bewilderment , but when the last sound of the retreating carriage die away in the distance she begin to run aimlessly hither and thither , sometimes knock herself against a tree , sometimes trip over a stone , fear every minute that she would be eat up by the lion .
Presently she be too tired to advance another step , so she throw herself down upon the ground and cry miserably : ` Oh , Percinet !
where be you ?
Have you forget me altogether ? '
She have hardly speak when all the forest be light up with a sudden glow .
Every tree seem to be send out a soft radiance , which be clear than moonlight and soft than daylight , and at the end of a long avenue of tree opposite to her the Princess saw a palace of clear crystal which blaze like the sun .
At that moment a slight sound behind her make her start round , and there stood Percinet himself .
` Did I frighten you , my Princess ? '
say he . '
I come to bid you welcome to our fairy palace , in the name of the Queen , my mother , who be prepare to love you as much a I do . '
The Princess joyfully mount with him into a little sledge , draw by two stag , which bound off and draw them swiftly to the wonderful palace , where the Queen receive her with the great kindness , and a splendid banquet be serve at once .
Graciosa be so happy to have find Percinet , and to have escape from the gloomy forest and all it terror , that she be very hungry and very merry , and they be a gay party .
After supper they go into another lovely room , where the crystal wall be cover with picture , and the Princess saw with great surprise that her own history be represent , even down to the moment when Percinet find her in the forest .
` Your painter must indeed be diligent , ' she say , point out the last picture to the Prince .
` They be oblige to be , for I will not have anything forget that happen to you , ' he answer .
When the Princess grow sleepy , twenty-four charming maiden put her to bed in the prettiest room she have ever see , and then sing to her so sweetly that Graciosa 's dream be all of mermaid , and cool sea wave , and cavern , in which she wander with Percinet ; but when she wake up again her first thought be that , delightful a this fairy palace seem to her , yet she could not stay in it , but must go back to her father .
When she have be dress by the four-and-twenty maiden in a charming robe which the Queen have send for her , and in which she look pretty than ever , Prince Percinet come to see her , and be bitterly disappointed when she tell him what she have be think .
He beg her to consider again how unhappy the wicked Queen would make her , and how , if she would but marry him , all the fairy palace would be hers , and his one thought would be to please her .
But , in spite of everything he could say , the Princess be quite determine to go back , though he at last persuade her to stay eight day , which be so full of pleasure and amusement that they pass like a few hour .
On the last day , Graciosa , who have often felt anxious to know what be go on in her father 's palace , say to Percinet that she be sure that he could find out for her , if he would , what reason the Queen have give her father for her sudden disappearance .
Percinet at first offer to send his courier to find out , but the Princess say : ` Oh !
be n't there a quick way of know than that ? '
` Very well , ' say Percinet , ` you shall see for yourself . '
So up they go together to the top of a very high tower , which , like the rest of the castle , be build entirely of rock-crystal .
There the Prince hold Graciosa 's hand in his , and make her put the tip of her little finger into her mouth , and look towards the town , and immediately she saw the wicked Queen go to the King , and hear her say to him , ` That miserable Princess be dead , and no great loss either .
I have order that she shall be bury at once . '
And then the Princess saw how she dress up a log of wood and have it bury , and how the old King cry , and all the people murmur that the Queen have kill Graciosa with her cruelty , and that she ought to have her head cut off .
When the Princess saw that the King be so sorry for her pretended death that he could neither eat nor drink , she cry : ` Ah , Percinet !
take me back quickly if you love me . '
And so , though he do not want to at all , he be oblige to promise that he would let her go .
` You may not regret me , Princess , ' he say sadly , ` for I fear that you do not love me well enough ; but I foresee that you will more than once regret that you leave this fairy palace where we have be so happy . '
But , in spite of all he could say , she bid farewell to the Queen , his mother , and prepare to set out ; so Percinet , very unwillingly , bring the little sledge with the stag and she mount beside him .
But they have hardly go twenty yard when a tremendous noise behind her make Graciosa look back , and she saw the palace of crystal fly into a million splinter , like the spray of a fountain , and vanish .
` Oh , Percinet ! '
she cry , ` what have happen ?
The palace be go . '
` Yes , ' he answer , ` my palace be a thing of the past ; you will see it again , but not until after you have be bury . '
` Now you be angry with me , ' say Graciosa in her most coaxing voice , ` though after all I be more to be pity than you be . '
When they get near the palace the Prince make the sledge and themselves invisible , so the Princess get in unobserved , and run up to the great hall where the King be sit all by himself .
At first he be very much startle by Graciosa 's sudden appearance , but she tell him how the Queen have leave her out in the forest , and how she have cause a log of wood to be bury .
The King , who do not know what to think , send quickly and have it dig up , and sure enough it be a the Princess have say .
Then he caress Graciosa , and make her sit down to supper with him , and they be as happy a possible .
But someone have by this time tell the wicked Queen that Graciosa have come back , and be at supper with the King , and in she fly in a terrible fury .
The poor old King quite tremble before her , and when she declare that Graciosa be not the Princess at all , but a wicked impostor , and that if the King do not give her up at once she would go back to her own castle and never see him again , he have not a word to say , and really seem to believe that it be not Graciosa after all .
So the Queen in great triumph sent for her wait woman , who drag the unhappy Princess away and shut her up in a garret ; they take away all her jewel and her pretty dress , and give her a rough cotton frock , wooden shoe , and a little cloth cap .
There be some straw in a corner , which be all she have for a bed , and they give her a very little bit of black bread to eat .
In this miserable plight Graciosa do indeed regret the fairy palace , and she would have call Percinet to her aid , only she felt sure he be still vexed with her for leave him , and think that she could not expect him to come .
Meanwhile the Queen have send for an old Fairy , as malicious a herself , and say to her : ` You must find me some task for this fine Princess which she can not possibly do , for I mean to punish her , and if she do not do what I order , she will not be able to say that I be unjust . '
So the old Fairy say she would think it over , and come again the next day .
When she return she bring with her a skein of thread , three time as big a herself ; it be so fine that a breath of air would break it , and so tangle that it be impossible to see the beginning or the end of it .
The Queen send for Graciosa , and say to her : ` Do you see this skein ?
Set your clumsy finger to work upon it , for I must have it disentangle by sunset , and if you break a single thread it will be the bad for you . '
So say she leave her , lock the door behind her with three key .
The Princess stand dismay at the sight of the terrible skein .
If she do but turn it over to see where to begin , she break a thousand thread , and not one could she disentangle .
At last she throw it into the middle of the floor , cry : ` Oh , Percinet !
this fatal skein will be the death of me if you will not forgive me and help me once more . '
And immediately in come Percinet as easily a if he have all the key in his own possession .
` Here I be , Princess , as much a ever at your service , ' say he , ` though really you be not very kind to me . '
Then he just stroke the skein with his wand , and all the broken thread join themselves together , and the whole skein wind itself smoothly off in the most surprising manner , and the Prince , turn to Graciosa , ask if there be nothing else that she wish him to do for her , and if the time would never come when she would wish for him for his own sake .
` Do n't be vex with me , Percinet , ' she say . '
I be unhappy enough without that . '
` But why should you be unhappy , my Princess ? '
cry he .
` Only come with me and we shall be as happy a the day be long together . '
` But suppose you get tire of me ? '
say Graciosa .
The Prince be so grieve at this want of confidence that he leave her without another word .
The wicked Queen be in such a hurry to punish Graciosa that she think the sun would never set ; and indeed it be before the appointed time that she come with her four Fairies , and a she fit the three key into the lock she say : ` I 'll venture to say that the idle minx have not do anything at all -- she prefer to sit with her hand before her to keep them white . '
But , as soon a she enter , Graciosa present her with the ball of thread in perfect order , so that she have no fault to find , and could only pretend to discover that it be soil , for which imaginary fault she give Graciosa a blow on each cheek , that make her white and pink skin turn green and yellow .
And then she send her back to be lock into the garret once more .
Then the Queen send for the Fairy again and scold her furiously .
` Do n't make such a mistake again ; find me something that it will be quite impossible for her to do , ' she say .
So the next day the Fairy appear with a huge barrel full of the feather of all sort of bird .
There be nightingale , canary , goldfinch , linnet , tomtit , parrot , owl , sparrow , dove , ostrich , bustard , peacock , lark , partridge , and everything else that you can think of .
These feather be all mix up in such confusion that the bird themselves could not have choose out their own .
` Here , ' say the Fairy , ` be a little task which it will take all your prisoner 's skill and patience to accomplish .
Tell her to pick out and lay in a separate heap the feather of each bird .
She would need to be a fairy to do it . '
The Queen be more than delight at the thought of the despair this task would cause the Princess .
She send for her , and with the same threat a before lock her up with the three key , order that all the feather should be sort by sunset .
Graciosa set to work at once , but before she have take out a dozen feather she find that it be perfectly impossible to know one from another .
` Ah !
well , ' she sigh , ` the Queen wish to kill me , and if I must die I must .
I can not ask Percinet to help me again , for if he really love me he would not wait till I call him , he would come without that . ' '
I be here , my Graciosa , ' cried Percinet , spring out of the barrel where he have be hide .
` How can you still doubt that I love you with all my heart ? '
Then he give three stroke of his wand upon the barrel , and all the feather fly out in a cloud and settle down in neat little separate heap all round the room .
` What should I do without you , Percinet ? '
say Graciosa gratefully .
But still she could not quite make up her mind to go with him and leave her father 's kingdom for ever ; so she beg him to give her more time to think of it , and he have to go away disappointed once more .
When the wicked Queen come at sunset she be amaze and infuriate to find the task do .
However , she complain that the heap of feather be badly arrange , and for that the Princess be beat and send back to her garret .
Then the Queen send for the Fairy once more , and scold her until she be fairly terrify , and promise to go home and think of another task for Graciosa , bad than either of the others .
At the end of three day she come again , bring with her a box .
` Tell your slave , ' say he , ` to carry this wherever you please , but on no account to open it .
She will not be able to help do so , and then you will be quite satisfied with the result . '
So the Queen come to Graciosa , and say : ` Carry this box to my castle , and place it upon the table in my own room .
But I forbid you on pain of death to look at what it contain . '
Graciosa set out , wear her little cap and wooden shoe and the old cotton frock , but even in this disguise she be so beautiful that all the passers-by wondered who she could be .
She have not go far before the heat of the sun and the weight of the box tire her so much that she sit down to rest in the shade of a little wood which lay on one side of a green meadow .
She be carefully hold the box upon her lap when she suddenly felt the great desire to open it .
` What could possibly happen if I do ? '
she say to herself . '
I should not take anything out .
I should only just see what be there . '
And without farther hesitation she lift the cover .
Instantly out come swarm of little men and woman , no taller than her finger , and scatter themselves all over the meadow , sing and dancing , and play the merry game , so that at first Graciosa be delight and watch them with much amusement .
But presently , when she be rest and wish to go on her way , she find that , do what she would , she could not get them back into their box .
If she chase them in the meadow they flee into the wood , and if she pursue them into the wood they dodge round tree and behind sprig of moss , and with peal of elfin laughter scamper back again into the meadow .
At last , weary and terrified , she sit down and cry .
` It be my own fault , ' she say sadly .
` Percinet , if you can still care for such an imprudent Princess , do come and help me once more . '
Immediately Percinet stand before her .
` Ah , Princess ! '
he say , ` but for the wicked Queen I fear you would never think of me at all . '
` Indeed I should , ' say Graciosa ; ' I be not so ungrateful a you think .
Only wait a little and I believe I shall love you quite dearly . '
Percinet be please at this , and with one stroke of his wand compel all the wilful little people to come back to their place in the box , and then render the Princess invisible he take her with him in his chariot to the castle .
When the Princess present herself at the door , and say that the Queen have order her to place the box in her own room , the governor laugh heartily at the idea .
` No , no , my little shepherdess , ' say he , ` that be not the place for you .
No wooden shoe have ever be over that floor yet . '
Then Graciosa beg him to give her a write message tell the Queen that he have refuse to admit her .
This he do , and she go back to Percinet , who be wait for her , and they set out together for the palace .
You may imagine that they do not go the short way , but the Princess do not find it too long , and before they part she have promise that if the Queen be still cruel to her , and try again to play her any spiteful trick , she would leave her and come to Percinet for ever .
When the Queen saw her return she fell upon the Fairy , whom she have keep with her , and pull her hair , and scratch her face , and would really have kill her if a Fairy could be kill .
And when the Princess present the letter and the box she throw them both upon the fire without open them , and look very much a if she would like to throw the Princess after them .
However , what she really do do be to have a great hole as deep a a well dug in her garden , and the top of it cover with a flat stone .
Then she go and walk near it , and say to Graciosa and all her lady who be with her : ' I be tell that a great treasure lie under that stone ; let u see if we can lift it . '
So they all begin to push and pull at it , and Graciosa among the others , which be just what the Queen want ; for as soon a the stone be lift high enough , she give the Princess a push which send her down to the bottom of the well , and then the stone be let fall again , and there she be a prisoner .
Graciosa felt that now indeed she be hopelessly lose , surely not even Percinet could find her in the heart of the earth .
` This be like be bury alive , ' she say with a shudder .
` Oh , Percinet !
if you only know how I be suffer for my want of trust in you !
But how could I be sure that you would not be like other men and tire of me from the moment you be sure I love you ? '
As she speak she suddenly saw a little door open , and the sunshine blaze into the dismal well .
Graciosa do not hesitate an instant , but pass through into a charming garden .
Flowers and fruit grow on every side , fountains plash , and bird sang in the branch overhead , and when she reach a great avenue of tree and look up to see where it would lead her , she find herself close to the palace of crystal .
Yes !
there be no mistake it , and the Queen and Percinet be come to meet her .
` Ah , Princess ! '
say the Queen , ` do n't keep this poor Percinet in suspense any long .
You little guess the anxiety he have suffer while you be in the power of that miserable Queen . '
The Princess kiss her gratefully , and promise to do a she wish in everything , and hold out her hand to Percinet , with a smile , she say : ` Do you remember tell me that I should not see your palace again until I have be bury ?
I wonder if you guess then that , when that happen , I should tell you that I love you with all my heart , and will marry you whenever you like ? '
Prince Percinet joyfully take the hand that be give him , and , for fear the Princess should change her mind , the wedding be hold at once with the great splendour , and Graciosa and Percinet live happily ever after .
-LRB- 11 -RRB- -LRB- 11 -RRB- Gracieuse et Percinet .
Mdme .
d'Aulnoy .
THE THREE PRINCESSES OF WHITELAND THERE be once upon a time a fisherman , who live hard by a palace and fish for the King 's table .
One day he be out fishing , but catch nothing at all .
Let him do what he might with rod and line , there be never even so much a a sprat on his hook ; but when the day be well nigh over , a head rise up out of the water , and say : ` If you will give me what your wife show you when you go home , you shall catch fish enough . '
So the man say ` Yes ' in a moment , and then he catch fish in plenty ; but when he get home at night , and his wife show him a baby which have just be bear , and fell a-weeping and wailing when he tell her of the promise which he have give , he be very unhappy .
All this be soon tell to the King up at the palace , and when he hear what sorrow the woman be in , and the reason of it , he say that he himself would take the child and see if he could not save it .
The baby be a boy , and the King take him at once and bring him up a his own son until the lad grow up .
Then one day he beg to have leave to go out with his father to fish ; he have a strong desire to do this , he say .
The King be very unwilling to permit it , but at last the lad get leave .
He stay with his father , and all go prosperously and well with them the whole day , until they come back to land in the evening .
Then the lad find that he have lose his pocket-handkerchief , and would go out in the boat after it ; but no sooner have he get into the boat than it begin to move off with him so quickly that the water foam all round about , and all that the lad do to keep the boat back with the oar be do to no purpose , for it go on and on the whole night through , and at last he come to a white strand that lay far , far away .
There he land , and when he have walk on for some distance he meet an old man with a long white beard .
` What be the name of this country ? '
say the youth .
` Whiteland , ' answer the man , and then he beg the youth to tell him whence he come and what he be go to do , and the youth do so .
` Well , then , ' say the man , ` if you walk on farther along the seashore here , you will come to three princess who be stand in the earth so that their head alone be out of it .
Then the first of them will call you -- she be the eldest -- and will beg you very prettily to come to her and help her , and the second will do the same , but you must not go near either of them .
Hurry past , a if you neither saw nor heard them ; but you shall go to the third and do what she bid you ; it will bring you good fortune . '
When the youth come to the first princess , she call to him and beg him to come to her very prettily , but he walk on a if he do not even see her , and he pass by the second in the same way , but he go up to the third .
` If thou wilt do what I tell thee , thou shalt choose among u three , ' say the Princess .
So the lad say that he be most willing , and she tell him that three Trolls have plant them all three there in the earth , but that formerly they have dwell in the castle which he could see at some distance in the wood .
` Now , ' she say , ` thou shalt go into the castle , and let the Trolls beat thee one night for each of u , and if thou canst but endure that , thou wilt set u free . '
` Yes , ' answer the lad , ' I will certainly try to do so . '
` When thou goest in , ' continue the Princess , ` two lion will stand by the doorway , but if thou only go straight between them they will do thee no harm ; go straight forward into a small dark chamber ; there thou shalt lie down .
Then the Troll will come and beat thee , but thou shalt take the flask which be hang on the wall , and anoint thyself wheresoever he have wound thee , after which thou shalt be as well a before .
Then lay hold of the sword which be hang by the side of the flask , and smite the Troll dead . '
So he do what the Princess have tell him .
He walk straight in between the lion just a if he do not see them , and then into the small chamber , and lay down on the bed .
The first night a Troll come with three head and three rod , and beat the lad most unmercifully ; but he hold out until the Troll be do with him , and then he take the flask and rub himself .
Having do this , he grasp the sword and smite the Troll dead .
In the morning when he go to the sea-shore the Princesses be out of the earth as far a their waist .
The next night everything happen in the same way , but the Troll who come then have six head and six rod , and he beat him much more severely than the first have do but when the lad go out of door next morning , the Princesses be out of the earth as far a their knee .
On the third night a Troll come who have nine head and nine rod , and he strike the lad and flog him so long , that at last he swoon away ; so the Troll take him up and fling him against the wall , and this make the flask of ointment fall down , and it splash all over him , and he become as strong a ever again .
Then , without loss of time , he grasp the sword and strike the Troll dead , and in the morning when he go out of the castle the Princesses be stand there entirely out of the earth .
So he take the young for his Queen , and live with her very happily for a long time .
At last , however , he take a fancy to go home for a short time to see his parent .
His Queen do not like this , but when his longing grow so great that he tell her he must and would go , she say to him : ` One thing shalt thou promise me , and that be , to do what thy father bid thee , but not what thy mother bid thee , ' and this he promise .
So she give him a ring , which enable him who wear it to obtain two wish .
He wish himself at home , and instantly find himself there ; but his parent be so amaze at the splendour of his apparel that their wonder never cease .
When he have be at home for some day his mother want him to go up to the palace , to show the King what a great man he have become .
The father say , ` No ; he must not do that , for if he do we shall have no more delight in him this time ; ` but he speak in vain , for the mother beg and pray until at last he go .
When he arrive there he be more splendid , both in raiment and in all else , than the other King , who do not like it , and say : ` Well , you can see what kind of Queen mine be , but I ca n't see yours .
I do not believe you have such a pretty Queen a I have . '
` Would to heaven she be stand here , and then you would be able to see ! '
say the young King , and in an instant she be stand there .
But she be very sorrowful , and say to him , ` Why didst thou not remember my word , and listen only to what thy father say ?
Now must I go home again at once , and thou hast waste both thy wish . '
Then she tie a ring in his hair , which have her name upon it , and wish herself at home again .
And now the young King be deeply afflict , and day out and day in go about thinking of naught else but how to get back again to his Queen . '
I will try to see if there be any place where I can learn how to find Whiteland , ' he think , and journey forth out into the world .
When he have go some distance he come to a mountain , where he meet a man who be Lord over all the beast in the forest -- for they all come to him when he blow a horn which he have .
So the King ask where Whiteland be . '
I do not know that , ' he answer , ` but I will ask my beast . '
Then he blow his horn and inquire whether any of them know where Whiteland lay , but there be not one who know that .
So the man give him a pair of snow shoe .
` When you have these on , ' he say , ` you will come to my brother , who live hundred of mile from here ; he be Lord over all the bird in the air -- ask him .
When you have get there , just turn the shoe so that the toe point this way , and then they will come home again of their own accord . '
When the King arrive there he turn the shoe a the Lord of the beast have bid him , and they go back .
And now he once more asked after Whiteland , and the man summon all the bird together , and inquired if any of them know where Whiteland lay .
No , none know this .
Long after the others there come an old eagle .
He have be absent ten whole year , but he too know no more than the rest .
` Well , well , ' say the man , ` then you shall have the loan of a pair of snow shoe of mine .
If you wear them you will get to my brother , who live hundred of mile from here .
He be Lord of all the fish in the sea -- you can ask him .
But do not forget to turn the shoe round . '
The King thank him , put on the shoe , and when he have get to him who be Lord of all the fish in the sea , he turn the snow shoe round , and back they go just a the others have go , and he ask once more where Whiteland be .
The man call the fish together with his horn , but none of them know anything about it .
At last come an old , old pike , which he have great difficulty in bring home to him .
When he ask the pike , it say , ` Yes , Whiteland be well know to me , for I have be cook there these ten year .
To-morrow morning I have to go back there , for now the Queen , whose King be stay away , be to marry some one else . '
` If that be the case I will give you a piece of advice , ' say the man .
` Not far from here on a moor stand three brother , who have stand there a hundred year fight for a hat , a cloak , and a pair of boot ; if any one have these three thing he can make himself invisible , and if he desire to go to any place , he have but to wish and he be there .
You may tell them that you have a desire to try these thing , and then you will be able to decide which of the men be to have them . '
So the King thank him and go , and do what he have say .
` What be this that you be stand fight about for ever and ever ? '
say he to the brother ; ` let me make a trial of these thing , and then I will judge between you . '
They willingly consent to this , but when he have get the hat , the cloak , and the boot , he say , ` Next time we meet you shall have my decision , ' and hereupon he wish himself away .
While he be go quickly through the air he fell in with the North Wind .
` And where may you be go ? '
say the North Wind .
` To Whiteland , ' say the King , and then he relate what have happen to him .
` Well , ' say the North Wind , ` you can easily go a little quicker than I can , for I have to puff and blow into every corner ; but when you get there , place yourself on the stair by the side of the door , and then I will come blustering in a if I want to blow down the whole castle , and when the Prince who be to have your Queen come out to see what be astir , just take him by the throat and fling him out , and then I will try to carry him away from court . '
As the North Wind have say , so do the King .
He stand on the stair , and when the North Wind come howl and roaring , and catch the roof and wall of the castle till they shake again , the Prince go out to see what be the matter ; but as soon a he come the King take him by the neck and flung him out , and then the North Wind lay hold of him and carry him off .
And when he be rid of him the King go into the castle .
At first the Queen do not know him , because he have grow so thin and pale from have travel so long and so sorrowfully ; but when she saw her ring she be heartily glad , and then the rightful wedding be hold , and hold in such a way that it be talk about far and wide .
-LRB- 12 -RRB- -LRB- 12 -RRB- From J. Moe .
THE VOICE OF DEATH ONCE upon a time there live a man whose one wish and prayer be to get rich .
Day and night he think of nothing else , and at last his prayer be grant , and he become very wealthy .
Now be so rich , and have so much to lose , he felt that it would be a terrible thing to die and leave all his possession behind ; so he make up his mind to set out in search of a land where there be no death .
He get ready for his journey , take leave of his wife , and start .
Whenever he come to a new country the first question that he ask be whether people die in that land , and when he hear that they do , he set out again on his quest .
At last he reach a country where he be tell that the people do not even know the meaning of the word death .
Our traveller be delighted when he hear this , and say : ` But surely there be great number of people in your land , if no one ever die ? '
` No , ' they reply , ` there be not great number , for you see from time to time a voice be heard call first one and then another , and whoever hear that voice get up and go away , and never come back . '
` And do they see the person who call them , ' he ask , ` or do they only hear his voice ? '
` They both see and hear him , ' be the answer .
Well , the man be amaze when he hear that the people be stupid enough to follow the voice , though they know that if they go when it call them they would never return .
And he go back to his own home and get all his possession together , and , take his wife and family , he set out resolve to go and live in that country where the people do not die , but where instead they hear a voice call them , which they follow into a land from which they never return .
For he have make up his own mind that when he or any of his family heard that voice they would pay no heed to it , however loudly it call .
After he have settle down in his new home , and have get everything in order about him , he warn his wife and family that , unless they want to die , they must on no account listen to a voice which they might some day hear call them .
For some year everything go well with them , and they live happily in their new home .
But one day , while they be all sit-ting together round the table , his wife suddenly start up , exclaim in a loud voice : ' I be come !
I be come ! '
And she begin to look round the room for her fur coat , but her husband jump up , and take firm hold of her by the hand , hold her fast , and reproach her , say : ` Do n't you remember what I tell you ?
Stay where you be unless you wish to die . '
` But do n't you hear that voice call me ? '
she answer . '
I be merely go to see why I be want .
I shall come back directly . '
So she fight and struggle to get away from her husband , and to go where the voice summon .
But he would not let her go , and have all the door of the house shut and bolt .
When she saw that he have do this , she say : ` Very well , dear husband , I shall do what you wish , and remain where I be . '
So her husband believe that it be all right , and that she have think well of it , and have get over her mad impulse to obey the voice .
But a few minute later she make a sudden dash for one of the door , open it and dart out , follow by her husband .
He catch her by the fur coat , and beg and implore her not to go , for if she do she would certainly never return .
She say nothing , but let her arm fall backwards , and suddenly bend herself forward , she slip out of the coat , leave it in her husband 's hand .
He , poor man , seem turn to stone a he gaze after her hurry away from him , and call at the top of her voice , a she run : ' I be come !
I be come ! '
When she be quite out of sight her husband recover his wit and go back into his house , murmur : ` If she be so foolish a to wish to die , I ca n't help it .
I warn and implore her to pay no heed to that voice , however loudly it might call . '
Well , day and week and month and year pass , and nothing happen to disturb the peace of the household .
But one day the man be at the barber 's a usual , be shave .
The shop be full of people , and his chin have just be cover with a lather of soap , when , suddenly start up from the chair , he call out in a loud voice : ' I wo n't come , do you hear ?
I wo n't come ! '
The barber and the other people in the shop listen to him with amazement .
But again look towards the door , he exclaim : ' I tell you , once and for all , I do not mean to come , so go away . '
And a few minute later he call out again : ` Go away , I tell you , or it will be the bad for you .
You may call as much a you like but you will never get me to come . '
And he get so angry that you might have think that some one be actually stand at the door , torment him .
At last he jump up , and catch the razor out of the barber 's hand , exclaiming : ` Give me that razor , and I 'll teach him to let people alone for the future . '
And he rush out of the house a if he be run after some one , whom no one else saw .
The barber , determine not to lose his razor , pursue the man , and they both continue run at full speed till they have get well out of the town , when all of a sudden the man fell head foremost down a precipice , and never be see again .
So he too , like the others , have be force against his will to follow the voice that call him .
The barber , who go home whistling and congratulate himself on the escape he have make , describe what have happen , and it be noise abroad in the country that the people who have go away , and have never return , have all fall into that pit ; for till then they have never know what have happen to those who have hear the voice and obey it call .
But when crowd of people go out from the town to examine the ill-fated pit that have swallow up such number , and yet never seem to be full , they could discover nothing .
