Now Hooty the Owl be a glutton and be lazy .
`` Reddy Fox and Jimmy Skunk and Billy Mink be sure to bring somethink -LSB- Transcriber 's note : something ? -RSB-
I like , so what be the use of spending my time hunt for what someone else will get for me ? ''
say he to himself .
So Hooty the Owl go very early to the Lone Pine and hid among the thick branch where no one could see him .
Shadow the Weasel be sly and a thief and life by his wit .
So because he have rather steal than be honest , he too go to the midnight spread with nothing but his appetite .
Now Reddy Fox be also a glutton and very , very crafty .
When he saw the plump duck bring by Billy Mink , his mouth water , for Reddy Fox be very , very fond of young spring duck .
So straightway he begin to plan how he could get possession of Billy Mink 's duck .
And when Billy Mink saw the fat trout Little Joe Otter have bring , his eye dance and his heart swell with envy , for Billy Mink be very , very fond of fish .
At once he begin to plan how he could secure that particular fat trout Little Joe Otter guard so carefully .
Jimmy Skunk be quite content with the egg he have steal from old Gray Goose -- that be , he be until he saw the plump chicken Reddy Fox have bring from Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
Then suddenly his stomach become very empty , very empty indeed for chicken , and Jimmy Skunk begin to think of a way to add the chicken of Reddy Fox to his own stolen egg .
Because Reddy Fox be the large he be give the place of honor at the head of the table under the Lone Pine .
On his right sat Little Joe Otter and on his left Jerry Muskrat .
Shadow the Weasel be next to Little Joe Otter , while right across from him be Jimmy Skunk .
Peter Rabbit be next , sit opposite his cousin , Jumper the Hare .
At the extreme end , face Reddy Fox , sit Billy Mink , with the plump duck right under his sharp little nose .
Boomer the Nighthawk excuse himself on the plea that he need exercise to aid digestion , and a he have bring nothing to the feast , his excuse be politely accept .
Reddy Fox be very , very cunning , and his crafty brain have be busily work out a plan to get all these good thing for himself .
`` Little brother of the Green Meadows , '' begin Reddy Fox , `` we have meet here to-night for a feast of brotherly love . ''
Reddy Fox pause a moment to look hungrily at Billy Mink 's duck .
Billy Mink cast a longing eye at Little Joe Otter 's trout , while Jimmy Skunk steal an envious glance at Reddy Fox 's chicken .
`` But there be one miss to make our joy complete , '' continue Reddy Fox .
`` Who have see Bobby Coon ? ''
No one have see Bobby Coon .
Somehow happy-go-lucky Bobby Coon have be overlook when the invitation be send out .
`` I move , '' continue Reddy Fox , `` that because Billy Mink run swiftly , and because he know where Bobby Coon usually be to be find , he be appoint a committee of one to find Bobby Coon and bring him to the feast . ''
Now nothing could have be less to the liking of Billy Mink , but there be nothing for him to do but to yield as gracefully a he could and go in search of Bobby Coon .
No sooner have Billy Mink disappear down the Lone Little Path than Reddy Fox recall a nest of grouse egg he have see that day under a big hemlock , and he propose that inasmuch a Jimmy Skunk already wear stripe for have steal a nest of egg from Mrs. Grouse , he be just the one to go steal these egg and bring them to the feast .
Of course there be nothing for Jimmy Skunk to do but to yield as gracefully a he could and go in search of the nest of egg under the big hemlock .
No sooner have Jimmy Skunk start off than Reddy Fox remember a big shining sucker Farmer Brown 's boy have catch that afternoon and toss among the rush beside the Smiling Pool .
Little Joe Otter listen and his mouth water and water until he could sit still no longer .
`` If you please , '' say Little Joe Otter , `` I 'll run down to the Smiling Pool and get that sucker to add to the feast . ''
No sooner be Little Joe Otter out of sight than Reddy Fox be remind of a field of carrot on the other side of the Green Meadows .
Now Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare be very fond of tender young carrot and they volunteer to bring a supply for the feast .
So away they hurry with big jump down the Lone Little Path and out across the Green Meadows .
No sooner be Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare fairly start than Reddy Fox begin to tell of some luscious sweet apple he have notice under a wild apple tree a little way back on the hill .
Now Jerry Muskrat be quite a fond of luscious sweet apple a of fresh-water clam , so quietly slip away , he set out in quest of the wild apple tree a little way back on the hill .
No sooner be Jerry Muskrat lose in the black shadow than Reddy Fox turn to speak to Shadow the Weasel .
But Shadow the Weasel believe that a feast in the stomach be worth two banquet untasted , so while the others have be talk , he have quietly suck dry the three big egg steal by Jimmy Skunk from old Gray Goose , and then because he be so slim and so quick and so sly , he slip away without anyone see him .
So when Reddy Fox turn to speak to Shadow the Weasel , he find himself alone .
At least he think himself alone , and he smile a wicked , selfish smile a he walk over to Billy Mink 's duck .
He be think how smart he have be to get rid of all the others , and of how he would enjoy the feast all by himself .
As Reddy Fox stoop to pick up Billy Mink 's duck , a great shadow drop softly , oh so softly , out of the Lone Pine down onto the plump chicken .
Then without the teeniest , weeny bit of noise , it float back into the Lone Pine and with it go the plump chicken .
Reddy Fox , still with his wicked , selfish smile , trot back with Billy Mink 's duck , but he drop it in sheer surprise when he discover that his plump chicken have disappear .
Now Reddy Fox be very suspicious , a people who be not honest themselves be very apt to be .
So he leave Billy Mink 's duck where he have drop it and trot very , very softly up the Lone Little Path to try to catch the thief who have steal his plump chicken .
No sooner be his back turn than down out of the Lone Pine float the great shadow , and when a minute later Reddy Fox return , Billy Mink 's duck have also disappear .
Reddy Fox could hardly believe his eye .
He do n't smile now .
He be too angry and too frightened .
Yes , Reddy Fox be frighten .
He walk in a big circle round and round the place where the plump chicken and the duck have be , and the more he walk , the more suspicious he become .
He wrinkle and wrinkle his little black nose in an effort to smell the intruder , but not a whiff could he get .
All be a still and peaceful a could be .
Little Joe Otter 's trout lay shin in the moonlight .
The big head of cabbage lay just where Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare have leave it .
Reddy Fox rub his eye to make sure that he be not dream and that the plump chicken and the duck be not there too .
Just then Bowser the Hound , over at Farmer Brown 's , bay at the moon .
Reddy Fox always be nervous and by this time he be so fidgety that he could n't stand still .
When Bowser the Hound bay at the moon Reddy Fox jump a foot off the ground and whirl about in the direction of Farmer Brown 's house .
Then he remember that Bowser the Hound be always chain up at night , so that he have nothing to fear from him .
After listen and look a moment Reddy Fox decide that all be safe .
`` Well , '' say he to himself , `` I 'll have that fat trout anyway , '' and turn to get it .
But the fat trout he have see a minute before shin in the moonlight have also disappear .
Reddy Fox look and look until his eye nearly pop out of his head .
Then he do what all coward do -- run home a fast a his leg could carry him .
Now of course Billy Mink do n't find Bobby Coon , and when he come back up the Lone Little Path he be very tired , very hungry and very cross .
And of course Jimmy Skunk fail to find the nest of Mrs. Grouse , and Little Joe Otter could find no trace of the shin big sucker among the rush beside the Smiling Pool .
They also be very tired , very hungry and very cross .
When the three return to the Lone Pine and find nothing there but the big head of cabbage , which none of them like , the empty egg shell of old Gray Goose and Jerry Muskrat 's clam , they straightway fell to accuse each other of have steal the duck and the fat trout and the egg and begin to quarrel dreadfully .
Pretty soon up come Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare , who have fail to find the tender young carrot .
And up come Jerry Muskrat , who have find no luscious sweet apple .
`` Where be Reddy Fox ? ''
ask Peter Rabbit .
Sure enough , where be Reddy Fox ?
Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jimmy Skunk stop quarrel and look at each other .
`` Reddy Fox be the thief ! ''
they cry all together .
Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare and Jerry Muskrat agree that Reddy Fox must be the thief , and have send them all away on false errand that he might have the feast all to himself .
So because there be nothing else to do , Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter , tire and hungry and angry , start for their home beside the Laughing Brook .
And Jimmy Skunk , also tire and hungry and angry , start off up the Crooked Little Path to look for some beetle .
But Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare sit down to enjoy the big head of cabbage , while close beside them sit Jerry Muskrat smack his lip over his clam , they taste so good .
Mother Moon look down and smiled and smile , for she know that each have a clear conscience , for they have do no harm to anyone .
And up in the thick top of the great pine Hooty the Owl nod sleepily , for his stomach be very full of chicken and duck and trout , although he have not be invite to the party .
And this be why Reddy Fox have no true friend on the Green Meadows .
III WHY PETER RABBIT 'S EARS ARE LONG The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind be tire .
Ever since she have turn them out of her big bag onto the Green Meadows early that morning they have romp and play tag and chased butterfly while Old Mother West Wind herself go to hunt for a raincloud which have wander away before it have water the thirsty little plant who be bravely try to keep the Green Meadows lovely and truly green .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun wear his broad smile and the more he smile the warmer it grow .
Mr. Sun be never thirsty himself , never the least little bit , or perhaps he would have help Old Mother West Wind find the wandering raincloud .
The Merry Little Breezes throw themselves down on the edge of the Smiling Pool , where the rush grow tall , and there they take turn rock the cradle which hold Mrs. Redwing 's four baby .
Pretty soon one of the Merry Little Breezes , peep through the rush , spy Peter Rabbit sit up very straight on the edge of the Green Meadows .
His long ear be point straight up , his big eye be very wide open and he seem to be look and listen with a great deal of curiosity .
`` I wonder why it be that Peter Rabbit have such long ear , '' say the Merry Little Breeze .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
reply a great , deep voice right behind him .
All the Merry Little Breezes jump up and run through the rush to the very edge of the Smiling Pool .
There on a great green lily pad sit Great-Grandfather Frog , his hand fold across his white and yellow waistcoat and his green coat shin spick and span .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , '' cry the Merry Little Breezes all together , `` do tell u why it be that Peter Rabbit have such long ear . ''
Grandfather Frog clear his throat .
He look to the east and clear his throat again .
Then he look to the west , and clear his throat .
He look north and he look south , and each time he clear his throat , but say nothing .
Finally he fold his hand once more over his white and yellow waistcoat , and look straight up at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun he remark in his very deep Voice and to no one in particular : `` If I have four fat , foolish , green fly , it be just possible that I might remember how it happen that Peter Rabbit have such long ear . ''
Then up jump all the Merry Little Breezes and away they race .
Some of them go east , some of them go west , some of them go north , some of them go south , all look for fat , foolish , green fly for Grandfather Frog .
By and by they come skip back , one by one , to the edge of the Smiling Pool , each with a fat , foolish , green fly , and each stop to give Mrs. Redwing 's cradle a gentle push .
When Grandfather Frog have swallow all the fat , foolish , green fly bring by the Merry Little Breezes , he settle himself comfortably on his big lily pad once more and begin : `` Once upon a time , very long ago , when the world be young , Mr. Rabbit -- not our Peter Rabbit , but his grandfather a thousand time remove -- have short ear like all the other meadow people , and also his four leg be all of the same length , just exactly the same length .
`` Now Mr. Rabbit have a great deal of curiosity , a very great deal , indeed .
He be forever push his pry little nose into other people 's affair , which , you know , be a most unpleasant habit .
In fact , Mr. Rabbit have become a nuisance . ''
-LSB- Illustration : Mr. Rabbit have a great deal of curiosity , a very great deal , indeed . -RSB-
`` Whenever Billy Mink stop to pass the time of day with Jerry Muskrat they be sure to find Mr. Rabbit stand close by , listen to all they say .
If Johnny Chuck 's mother run over to have a few minute ' chat with Jimmy Skunk 's mother , the first thing they know Mr. Rabbit would be squat down in the grass right behind them .
`` The older he grow the bad Mr. Rabbit become .
He would spend his evening go from house to house , tiptoe softly up to the window to listen to what the folk inside be say .
And the more he hear the more Mr. Rabbit 's curiosity grow .
`` Now , like most people who meddle in other folk ' affair , Mr. Rabbit have no time to tend to his own business .
His cabbage patch grow up to weed .
His house leak , his fence fell to piece , and altogether his be the bad look place on the Green Meadows .
`` Worse still , Mr. Rabbit be a trouble maker .
He just could n't keep his tongue still .
And like most gossip , he never could tell the exact truth .
`` Dear me !
dear me ! ''
say Grandfather Frog , shake his head solemnly .
`` Things have come to a dreadful pas on the Green Meadows .
Reddy Fox and Bobby Coon never meet without fight .
Jimmy Skunk and Johnny Chuck turn their back on each other .
Jerry Muskrat , Little Joe Otter , and Billy Mink call each other bad name .
All because Mr. Rabbit have tell so many story that be not true .
`` Now when old Mother Nature visit the Green Meadows she soon saw what a dreadful state all the meadow people be in , and she begin to inquire how it all come about . ''
` It 's all because of Mr. Rabbit , ' say Reddy Fox . ''
` No one be to blame but Mr. Rabbit , ' say Striped Chipmunk .
`` Everywhere old Mother Nature inquire it be the same -- Mr. Rabbit , Mr. Rabbit , Mr. Rabbit .
`` So then old Mother Nature send for bluster great Mr. North Wind , who be very strong .
And she send for Mr. Rabbit .
`` Mr. Rabbit tremble in his shoe when he get old Mother Nature 's message .
He would have like to run away and hide .
But he do not dare do that , for he know that there be nowhere he could hide that Mother Nature would not find him sooner or later .
And besides , his curiosity would give him no peace .
He just have to know what old Mother Nature want .
`` So Peter Rabbit put on his best suit , which be very shabby , and set out for the Lone Pine to see what old Mother Nature want .
When he get there , he find all the little people of the Green Meadows and all the little folk of the Green Forest there before him .
There be Reddy Fox , Johnny Chuck , Striped Chipmunk , Happy Jack Squirrel , Mr. Black Snake , old Mr. Crow , Sammy Jay , Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Jerry Muskrat , Spotty the Turtle , old King Bear , his cousin , Mr. Coon , and all the other little people .
`` When he saw all who have gather under the Lone Pine , and how they all look crossly at him , Mr. Rabbit be so frightened that his heart go pit-a-pat , pit-a-pat , pit-a-pat , and he want more than ever to run away .
But he do n't dare to .
No , Sir , he do n't dare to .
And then he be so curious to know what it all mean that he would n't have run if he have dare .
`` Old Mother Nature make Mr. Rabbit sit up on an old log where all could see him .
Then in turn she ask each present who be the cause of all the trouble on the Green Meadows .
And each in turn answer ` Mr. Rabbit . ' ''
` Mr. Rabbit , ' say old Mother Nature , ` you be lazy , for your cabbage patch have all go to weed .
You be shiftless , for your house leak .
You be a sneak , for you creep up where you be not want and listen to thing which do not concern you .
You be a thief , for you steal the secret of others .
You be a prevaricator , for you tell thing which be not so .
Mr. Rabbit , you be all these -- a lazy , shiftless sneak , thief and prevaricator . '
`` It be dreadful .
Mother Nature pause , and Mr. Rabbit felt oh so ashamed .
He do not look up , but he felt , he just felt , all the eye of all the little meadow people and forest folk burn right into him .
So he hang his head and two great tear fell splash , right at his foot .
You see Mr. Rabbit be n't altogether bad .
It be just this dreadful curiosity .
`` Old Mother Nature know this and down in her heart she love Mr. Rabbit and be oh so sorry for him . ''
` Mr. Rabbit , ' continue old Mother Nature , ` because your curiosity be so great , your ear shall be make long , that every one who see you may know that it be not safe to talk when you be near .
Because you be a sneak and steal up to people unseen , your-hind leg shall be make long , so that whenever you sit up straight you will be tall and every one can see you , and whenever you run , you will go with great jump , and every one will know who it be run away .
And because you be shiftless and your house leak , you will hereafter live in a hole in the ground . '
`` Then old Mother Nature take Mr. Rabbit by his two ear and big , strong Mr. North Wind take Peter Rabbit by his hind leg , and they both pull .
And when they put him down Peter Rabbit 's ear and his hind leg be long , many time longer than they use to be .
When he try to run away to hide his shame , he find that the only way he could go be with great jump , and you may be sure he jump as fast a he could .
`` And ever since that long ago time , when the world be young , rabbit have have long ear and long hind leg , all because of the curiosity of their grandfather a thousand time remove .
And now you know why Peter Rabbit 's ear be long , and why he be always sit up and listening , '' conclude Great-Grandfather Frog .
`` Thank you , thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
shout all the Merry Little Breezes , and race away to help old Mother West Wind drive up the wandering raincloud , which she have find at last .
IV REDDY FOX DISOBEYS On the brow of the hill by the Lone Pine sit Reddy Fox .
Every few moment he point his little black nose up at the round , yellow moon and bark .
Way over across the broad White Meadows , which in summer time be green , you know , in the dooryard of Farmer Brown 's house , Bowser the Hound sit and bark at the moon , too .
`` Yap-yap-yap , '' bark Reddy Fox , as loud a he could .
`` Bow-wow-wow , '' say Bowser the Hound in his deep voice .
Then both would listen and watch the million little star twinkle and twinkle in the frosty sky .
Now just why Reddy Fox should bark at the moon he do not know .
He just have to .
Every night for a week he have sit at the foot of the Lone Pine and bark and bark until his throat be sore .
Every night old Mother Fox have warn him that noisy child would come to no good end , and every night Reddy have promise that he would bark no more .
But every night when the first silver flood of witch light crept over the hill and cast strange shadow from the naked branch of the tree , Reddy forget all about his promise .
Deep down under his little red coat be a strange feeling which he could not explain .
He simply must bark , so up to the Lone Pine he would go and yap and yap and yap , until all the little meadow people who be not asleep knew just where Reddy Fox be .
Bowser the Hound know , too , and he make up his mind that Reddy Fox be make fun of him .
Now Bowser do not like to be make fun of any more than little boy and girl do , and he make up his mind that if ever he could break his chain , or that if ever Farmer Brown forget to chain him up , he would teach Reddy Fox a lesson that Reddy would never forget .
`` Yap-yap-yap , '' bark Reddy Fox , and then listen to hear Bowser 's deep voice reply .
But this time there be no reply .
Reddy listen , and listen , and then try it again .
Way off on a distant hill he could hear Hooty the Owl .
Close by him Jack Frost be busy snap stick .
Down on the White Meadows he could see Jimmy Skunk prowl about .
Once he hear a rooster crow sleepily in Farmer Brown 's hen-house , but he think of Bowser the Hound , and though his mouth water , he do not dare risk a close acquaintance with the big dog .
So he sit still and bark , and pretty soon he forget all else but the moon and the sound of his own voice .
Now Bowser the Hound have manage to slip his collar .
`` Aha , '' think Bowser , `` now I 'll teach Reddy Fox to make fun of me , '' and like a shadow he slip through the fence and across the White Meadows towards the Lone Pine .
Reddy Fox have just bark for the hundreth time when he hear a twig crack just back of him .
It have a different sound from the noisy crack of Jack Frost , and Reddy stop a yap right in the middle and whirl about to see what it might be .
There be Bowser the Hound almost upon him , his eye flash fire , his great , red jaw wide open , and every hair on his back bristle with rage .
Reddy Fox do n't wait to say `` Good evening , '' or to see more .
Oh , no !
He turn a back somersault and away he speed over the hard , snowy crust as fast a his leg could carry him .
Bowser baying at the moon he like to hear , but Bowser baying at his heel be another matter , and Reddy run a he have never run before .
Down across the White Meadows he speed , Bowser frighten all the echo with the roar of his big voice a he follow in full cry .
How Reddy do wish that he have mind Mother Fox !
How safe and snug and warm be his home under the root of the old hickory tree , and how he do wish that he be safely there !
But it would never do to go there now , for that would tell Bowser where he live , and Bowser would take Farmer Brown there , and that would be the end of Reddy Fox and of Mother Fox and of all the brother and sister fox .
So Reddy twist and turn , and run this way and run that way , and the longer he run , the short his breath grow .
It be come in great pant now .
His bushy tail , of which he be so proud , have become very heavy .
How Reddy Fox do wish and wish that he have mind Mother Fox !
He twist and turn , and double this way and that way , and all the time Bowser the Hound get closer and closer .
Now way off on the hill behind the White Meadows Mother Fox have be hunt for her supper .
She have hear the `` Yap-yap-yap '' of Reddy Fox a he bark at the moon , and she have hear Bowser bay over in the barnyard of Farmer Brown .
Then she have hear the `` yap '' of Reddy Fox cut short in the middle and the roar of Bowser 's big voice a he start to chase Reddy Fox .
She know that Reddy could run fast , but she also know that Bowser the Hound have a wonderful nose , and that Bowser would never give up .
So Mother Fox patter down the Crooked Little Path onto the White Meadows , where she could see the chase .
When she get near enough , she bark twice to tell Reddy that she would help him .
Now Reddy Fox be so tired that he be almost in despair when he hear Mother Fox bark .
But he know that Mother Fox be so wise , and she have so often fool Bowser the Hound , that if he could hold out just a little long she would help him .
So for a few minute he run faster than ever and he gain a long way on Bowser the Hound .
As he pass a shock of corn that have be leave stand on the White Meadows , Mother Fox step out from behind it .
`` Go home , Reddy Fox , '' say she , sharply , `` go home and stay there until I come . ''
Then she deliberately sit down in front of the shock of corn to wait until Bowser the Hound should come in sight .
Now Bowser the Hound keep his eye and nose on the track of Reddy Fox , look up only once in a while to see where he be go , so he do not see Reddy Fox slip behind the corn shock , and when he do look up , he saw only Mother Fox sit there wait for him .
Now Bowser the Hound think slowly .
When he saw old Mother Fox sit there , he do not stop to think that it be not Reddy Fox whom he have be follow , or he would have know good than to waste his time follow old Mother Fox .
He would have just hunt around until he have find where Reddy have go to .
But Bowser the Hound think slowly .
When he saw old Mother Fox sit there , he think it be Reddy Fox and that now he have him .
With a great roar of his big voice , he spring forward .
Mother Fox wait until he be almost upon her , then spring to one side , she trot off a little way .
At once Bowser the Hound start after her .
She pretend to be very tired .
Every time he rush forward she manage to just slip out of his grasp .
Little by little she lead him across the White Meadows back towards Farmer Brown 's barnyard .
Pretty soon old Mother Fox begin to run as fast a she could , and that be very fast indeed .
She leave Bowser the Hound a long , long way behind .
When she come to a stone wall she jump up on the stone wall and run along it , just like a squirrel .
Every once in a while she would make a long jump and then trot along a little way again .
She know that stone do not carry the scent well , and that Bowser the Hound would have hard work to smell her on the stone wall .
Way down at the end of the pasture an old apple tree stretch a long limb out towards the stone wall .
When she get opposite to this she jump onto this long limb and run up into the tree .
There in the crotch , close to the trunk , she sit and watch .
Bowser the Hound , make a tremendous noise , follow her trail up to the stone wall .
Then he be puzzle .
He sniff this way , and he sniff that way , but he could not tell where Mother Fox have disappear to .
He look up at old Mother Moon and bay and bay , but old Mother Moon do not help him a bit .
Then he jump over the stone wall and look , and look , and smell , and smell , but no track of Mother Fox could he find .
Then he run up along the stone wall a little way , and then down along the stone wall a little way , but still he could not find a track of Mother Fox .
The longer he hunt , the angrier he grow .
Old Mother Fox , sit in the apple tree , watch him and laugh and laugh to herself .
Then when she grow tired of watch him , she make a long jump out into the field and trot off home to punish Reddy Fox for his disobedience .
When she get there she find Reddy Fox very much ashamed , very tired and very sorrowful , and since that time Reddy Fox have never bark at the moon .
V STRIPED CHIPMUNK 'S POCKETS It be one of Striped Chipmunk 's busy day .
Every day be a busy day with Striped Chipmunk at this season of the year , for the sweet acorn be ripe and the hickory nut rattle down whenever Old Mother West Wind shake the tree , while every night Jack Frost open chestnut burr just to see the squirrel scamper for the plump brown nut the next morning .
So Striped Chipmunk be very busy , very busy indeed !
He whisk in and out of the old stone wall along one edge of the Green Meadows .
Back and forth , back and forth , sometimes to the old hickory tree , sometimes to the hollow chestnut tree , sometimes to the great oak on the edge of the Green Forest Striped Chipmunk scamper .
Old Mother West Wind , come down from the Purple Hills very early in the morning , have find Striped Chipmunk up before her and hard at work .
Later , when jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have climb up into the sky , the Merry Little Breezes have spy Striped Chipmunk whisk along the old stone wall and have race over to play with him , for the Merry Little Breezes be very fond of Striped Chipmunk .
They get there just in time to see him disappear under a great stone in the old wall .
In a minute he be out again and off as fast a he could go to the old hickory tree .
`` Oh , Striped Chipmunk , come play with u , '' shout the Merry Little Breezes , run after him .
But Striped Chipmunk just flirt his funny little tail and wink with both his bright eye at them .
`` Busy !
busy !
busy ! ''
say Striped Chipmunk , hurry along as fast a his short leg could take him .
The Merry Little Breezes laugh , and one of them , dance ahead , pull the funny little tail of Striped Chipmunk .
`` It 's a beautiful day ; do come and play with u , '' cry the Merry Little Breeze .
But Striped Chipmunk flirt his tail over his back once more .
`` Busy !
busy !
busy ! ''
he shout over his shoulder and run faster than ever .
In a few minute he be back again , but such a queer-looking fellow a he be !
His head be twice as big a it have be before and you would hardly have know that it be Striped Chipmunk but for the saucy way he twitch his funny little tail and the spry way he scamper along the old stone wall .
`` Oh , Striped Chipmunk 's get the mumps ! ''
shout the Merry Little Breezes .
But Striped Chipmunk say never a word .
He could n't .
He run faster than ever until he disappear under the big stone .
When he pop his head out again he be just his usual saucy little self .
`` Say , Striped Chipmunk , '' cry the Merry Little Breezes , rush over to him , `` tell u how you happen to have pocket in your cheek . ''
But Striped Chipmunk just snap his bright eye at them and say `` Busy !
busy !
busy ! ''
a he scuttle over to the hollow chestnut tree .
The Merry Little Breezes saw that it be no use at all to try to tempt Striped Chipmunk to play with them or to answer question .
`` I tell you what , '' cry one , `` let 's go ask Great-Grandfather Frog how Striped Chipmunk happen to have pocket in his cheek .
He 'll know . ''
So away they start , after they have race over to the big hollow chestnut tree and send a shower of brown nut rattle down to Striped Chipmunk from the burr that Jack Frost have open the night before .
`` Good-bye , Striped Chipmunk , '' they shout a they romp across the Green Meadows .
And Striped Chipmunk stop long enough to shout `` Good-bye '' before he fill his pocket with the brown nut .
Old Grandfather Frog sit on his big green lily pad blink in the sun .
It be very still , very , very still indeed .
Suddenly out of the brown bulrush burst the Merry Little Breezes and surround old Grandfather Frog .
And every one of them have bring to him a fat , foolish , green fly .
Grandfather 's big goggly eye sparkle and he give a funny little hop up into the air a he catch each foolish green fly .
When the last one be safely inside his white and yellow waistcoat he settle himself comfortably on the big green lily pad and fold his hand over the foolish green fly .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog .
`` What be it you want this morning ? ''
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , '' cry the Merry Little Breezes , `` tell u how it happen that Striped Chipmunk have pocket in his cheek .
Do tell u , Grandfather Frog .
Please do ! ''
`` Chug-a-rum , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` How should I know ? ''
`` But you do know , Grandfather Frog , you know you do .
Please tell u ! ''
cry the Merry Little Breezes a they settle themselves among the rush .
And presently Grandfather Frog begin : `` Once upon a time -- a long , long while ago -- '' `` When the world be young ? ''
ask a mischievous little Breeze .
Grandfather Frog pretend to be very much put out by the interruption , and try to look very severe .
But the Merry Little Breezes be all giggling , so that presently he have to smile too .
`` Yes , '' say he , `` it be when the world be young , before old King Bear become king .
Mr. Chipmunk , Striped Chipmunk 's great-great-great-grandfather a thousand time remove , be the small of the squirrel , just a Striped Chipmunk be now .
But he do n't mind that , not the least little bit .
Mr. Gray Squirrel be four time a big and have a handsome tail , Mr. Fox Squirrel be four time a big and he also have a handsome tail , Mr. Red Squirrel be twice as big and he think his tail be very good to see .
But Mr. Chipmunk do n't envy his big cousin their fine tail ; not he !
You see he have himself a beautiful strip coat of which he be very proud and which he think much more to be desire than a big tail .
`` So Mr. Chipmunk go his way happy and contented and he be such a merry little fellow and so full of fun and cut such funny caper that everybody love Mr. Chipmunk .
`` One day , when the night be cool and all the tree have put on their brilliant color , old Mother Nature send word down across the Green Meadows that every squirrel should gather for her and store away until she come a thousand nut .
Now the squirrel have grow fat and lazy through the long summer , all but Mr. Chipmunk , who frisk about so much that he have no chance to grow fat .
`` Mr. Gray Squirrel grumble .
Mr. Fox Squirrel grumble .
Mr. Red Squirrel grumble .
But they do n't dare disobey old Mother Nature , so they all set out , each to gather a thousand nut .
And Mr. Chipmunk alone be pleasant and cheerful .
`` When they reach the nut tree , what do you suppose they discover ?
Why , that they have be so greedy that they have eat most of the nut and it be go to be hard work to find and store a thousand nut for old Mother Nature .
Then they begin to hurry , do Mr. Gray Squirrel and Mr. Fox Squirrel and Mr. Red Squirrel , each try to make sure of his thousand nut .
They quarrel and they fight over the nut on the ground and even up in the tree .
And because they be so big and so strong , they push Mr. Chipmunk this way and they push him that way and often just a he be go to pick up a fat nut one of them would knock him over and make off with the prize .
`` Poor Mr. Chipmunk keep his temper and be as polite a ever , but how he do work !
His cousin be great climber and could get the nut still leave on the tree , but Mr. Chipmunk be a poor climber , so he have to be content with those on the ground .
Of course he could carry only one nut at a time and his leg be so short that he have to run as fast a ever he could to store each nut in his secret store-house and get back for another .
And while the others quarrel and fought , he hurry back and forth , back and forth , from early morning until jolly , round , red Mr. Sun pull his night cap on behind the Purple Hills , hunt for nut and put them away in his secret store-house .
`` But the nut grow scarcer and scarcer on the ground and harder to find , for the other squirrel be pick them up too , and then they do not have so far to carry them .
`` Sometimes one of his cousin up in the tree would drop a nut , but Mr. Chipmunk never would take it , not even when he be have hard work to find any , ` for , ' say he to himself , ` if my cousin drop a nut , it be his nut just the same . '
`` Finally Mr. Gray Squirrel announce that he have get his thousand nut .
Then Mr. Fox Squirrel announce that he have get his thousand nut .
The next day Mr. Red Squirrel stop hunt because he have his thousand nut .
`` But Mr. Chipmunk have hardly more than half a many .
And that night he make a dreadful discovery -- some one have find his secret store-house and have steal some of his precious nut . ''
` It 's of no use to cry over what ca n't be help , ' say Mr. Chipmunk , and the next morning he bravely start out again .
He have work so hard that he have grow thinner and thinner until now he be only a shadow of his old self .
But he be as cheerful a ever and keep right on hunt and hunt for stray nut .
Mr. Gray Squirrel and Mr. Fox Squirrel and Mr. Red Squirrel sit around and rest and make fun of him .
Way up in the top of the tall tree a few nut still cling , but his cousin do not once offer to go up and shake them down for Mr. Chipmunk .
`` And then old Mother Nature come down across the Green Meadows .
First Mr. Gray Squirrel take her to his storehouse and she count his thousand nut .
Then Mr. Fox Squirrel lead her to his storehouse and she count his thousand nut .
Then Mr. Red Squirrel show her his store-house and she count his thousand nut .
`` Last of all Mr. Chipmunk lead her to his secret store-house and show her the pile of nut he have work so hard to get .
Old Mother Nature do n't need to count them to see that there be not a thousand there . ''
` I 've do the best I could , ' say Mr. Chipmunk bravely , and he tremble all over , he be so tired .
`` Old Mother Nature say never a word but go out on the Green Meadows and send the Merry Little Breezes to call together all the little meadow people and all the little forest folk .
When they have all gather before her she suddenly turn to Mr. Gray Squirrel . ''
` Go bring me a hundred nut from your store-house , ' say she .
`` Then she turn to Mr. Fox Squirrel . ''
` Go bring me a hundred nut from your store-house , ' say she .
`` Last of all she call Mr. Red Squirrel out where all could see him .
Mr. Red Squirrel creep out very slowly .
His teeth chatter and his tail , of which he be so proud , drag on the ground , for you see Mr. Red Squirrel have something on his mind .
`` Then old Mother Nature tell how she have order each squirrel to get and store for her a thousand nut .
She tell just how selfish Mr. Gray Squirrel and Mr. Fox Squirrel have be .
She tell just how hard Mr. Chipmunk have work and then she tell how part of his precious store have be steal . ''
` And there , ' say old Mother Nature in a loud voice so that every one should hear , ` there be the thief ! '
`` Then she command Mr. Red Squirrel to go to his store-house and bring her half of the big and best nut he have there !
`` Mr. Red Squirrel sneak off with his head hanging , and begin to bring the nut .
And a he tramp back and forth , back and forth , all the little meadow people and all the little forest folk point their finger at him and cry ` Thief !
Thief !
Thief ! '
`` When all the nut have be bring to her by Mr. Gray Squirrel and Mr. Fox Squirrel and Mr. Red Squirrel , old Mother Nature gather them all up and put them in the secret store-house of Mr. Chipmunk .
Then she set Mr. Chipmunk up on an old stump where all could see him and she say : '' ` Mr. Chipmunk , because you have be faithful , because you have be cheerful , because you have do your best , henceforth you shall have two pocket , one in each cheek , so that you can carry two nut at once , that you may not have to work so hard the next time I tell you to store a thousand nuts . '
`` And all the little meadow people and all the little forest folk shout ` Hurrah for Mr. Chipmunk ! '
All but his cousin , Mr. Gray Squirrel and Mr. Fox Squirrel and Mr. Red Squirrel , who hide themselves for shame .
`` And ever since that time long ago , when the world be young , the Chipmunks have have pocket in their cheek .
`` You ca n't fool old Mother Nature , '' conclude Great-Grandfather Frog .
`` No , Sir , you ca n't fool old Mother Nature and it 's no use to try . ''
`` Thank you , thank you , '' cry the Merry Little Breezes , clap their hand .
Then they all race across the Green Meadows to shake down some more nut for Striped Chipmunk .
VI REDDY FOX , THE BOASTER Johnny Chuck waddle down the Lone Little Path across the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck be very fat and rolly-poly .
His yellow brown coat fit him so snugly that it seem a if it must burst .
Johnny Chuck be feel very happy -- very happy indeed , for you see Johnny Chuck long ago find the best thing in the world , which be contentment .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , look down from the sky , smile and smile to see Johnny Chuck waddle down the Lone Little Path , for he love the merry-hearted little fellow , a do all the little meadow people -- all but Reddy Fox , for Reddy Fox have not forget the surprise Johnny Chuck once give him and how he call him a '' ` fraid cat . ''
Once in a while Johnny Chuck stop to brush his coat carefully , for he be very particular about his appearance , be Johnny Chuck .
By and by he come to the old butternut tree down by the Smiling Pool .
He could see it a long time before he reach it , and up in the top of it he could see Blacky the Crow flap his wing and caw at the top of his voice .
`` There must be something go on , '' say Johnny Chuck to himself , and begin to waddle faster .
He look so very queer when he try to hurry that jolly round , red Mr. Sun smile more than ever .
When he be almost to the old butter-nut tree Johnny Chuck sit up very straight so that his head come just above the tall meadow grass beside the Lone Little Path .
He could see the Merry Little Breezes dance and race under the old butternut tree and have such a good time !
And he could see the long ear of Peter Rabbit stand up straight above the tall meadow grass .
One of the Merry Little Breezes spy Johnny Chuck .
`` Hurry up , Johnny Chuck ! ''
he shout , and Johnny Chuck hurry .
When he reach the old butternut tree he be all out of breath .
He be puff and blowing and he be so warm that he wish just for a minute , a single little minute , that he could swim like Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter , so that he could jump into the Smiling Pool and cool off .
`` Hello , Johnny Chuck ! ''
shout Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello yourself , and see how you like it ! ''
reply Johnny Chuck .
`` Hello myself ! ''
say Peter Rabbit .
And then because it be so very foolish everybody laugh .
It be a good thing to feel foolishly happy on a beautiful sunshiny day , especially down on the Green Meadows .
Jimmy Skunk be there .
He be feel very , very good indeed , be Jimmy Skunk , for he have find some very fine beetle for his breakfast .
Little Joe Otter be there , and Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat and Happy Jack Squirrel , and of course Reddy Fox be there .
Oh my , yes , of course Reddy Fox be there !
Reddy Fox never miss a chance to show off .
He be wear his very newest red coat and his white waistcoat .
He have brush his tail till it look very handsome , and every few minute he would turn and admire it .
Reddy Fox think himself a very fine gentleman .
He admire himself and he want every one else to admire him .
`` Let 's do stunt , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` I can jump farther than anybody here ! ''
Then Peter Rabbit jump a tremendously long jump .
Then everybody jump , everybody but Reddy Fox .
Even Johnny Chuck jump , and because he be so rolly-poly he tumble over and over and everybody laugh and Johnny Chuck laugh loud of all .
And because his hind leg be long and meant for jump Peter Rabbit have jump far than any one else .
`` I can climb to the top of the old butternut tree quicker than anybody else , '' cry Happy Jack Squirrel , and away he start with Bobby Coon and Billy Mink after him , for though Billy Mink be a famous swimmer and can run swiftly , he can also climb when he have to .
But Happy Jack Squirrel be at the top of the old butternut tree almost before the others have start .
The Merry Little Breezes clap their hand and everybody shout for Happy Jack Squirrel , everybody but Reddy Fox .
`` I can swim fast than anybody here , '' shout Little Joe Otter .
In a flash three little brown coat splash into the Smiling Pool so suddenly that they almost upset Great-Grandfather Frog watch from his big green lily pad .
They belong to Little Joe Otter , Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat .
Across the Smiling Pool and back again they race and Little Joe Otter be first out on the bank .
`` Hurrah for Little Joe Otter ! ''
shout Blacky the Crow .
And everybody shout `` Hurrah ! ''
Everybody but Reddy Fox .
`` What can you do , Jimmy Skunk ? ''
ask Peter Rabbit , dance up and down , he be so excited .
Jimmy Skunk yawn lazily .
`` I can throw a wonderful perfume far than anybody here , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
`` We know it !
We know it ! ''
shout the Merry Little Breezes a everybody tumble heel over head away from Jimmy Skunk , even Reddy Fox .
`` But please do n't ! ''
And Jimmy Skunk do n't .
Then they all come back , Reddy Fox carefully brush his handsome red coat which have become sadly mussed , he have flee in such a hurry .
Now for the first time in his life Johnny Chuck begin to feel just a wee , wee bit discontent .
What be there he could do good than any one else ?
He could n't jump and he could n't climb and he could n't swim .
He could n't even run fast , because he be so fat and round and rolly-poly .
He quite forget that he be so sunny-hearted and good-natured that everybody love him , everybody but Reddy Fox .
Just then Reddy Fox begin to boast , for Reddy Fox be a great boaster .
`` Pooh ! ''
say Reddy Fox , `` pooh !
Anybody could jump if their leg be make for jumping .
And what 's the good of climb tree anyway ?
Now I can run fast than anybody here -- fast than anybody in the whole world ! ''
say Reddy Fox , puff himself out .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` You ca n't beat Spotty the Turtle . ''
Then everyone shout and roll over and over in the grass , they be so tickled , for every one remember how Spotty the Turtle have once win a race from Reddy Fox .
For a minute Reddy Fox look very foolish .
Then he lose his temper , which be a very unwise thing to do , for it be hard to find again .
He swell himself out until every hair stand on end and he look twice as big a he do before .
He strut up and down and glare at each in turn .
`` And I 'm not afraid of any living thing on the Green Meadows ! ''
boast Reddy Fox .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` Do I see Bowser the Hound ? ''
Every hair on Reddy Fox suddenly fell back into place .
He whirl about nervously and anxiously look over the Green Meadows .
Then everybody shout again and roll over and over in the grass and hold on to their side , for you see Bowser the Hound be n't there at all .
But everybody take good care to keep away from Reddy Fox , everybody but Johnny Chuck .
He just sit still and chuckle and chuckle till his fat side shake .
`` What be you laugh at ? ''
demand Reddy Fox .
`` I be just thinking , '' say Johnny Chuck , `` that though you can run so fast , you ca n't even catch me . ''
Reddy Fox just glare at him for a minute , he be so mad .
Then he spring straight at Johnny Chuck .
`` I 'll show you ! ''
he snarl .
Now Johnny Chuck have be sit close beside a hole that Grandfather Chuck have dig a long time before and which be empty .
In a flash Johnny Chuck disappear head first in the hole .
Now the hole be too small for Reddy Fox to enter , but he be so angry that he straightway begin to dig it large .
My , how the sand do fly !
It pour out behind Reddy Fox in a stream of shin yellow .
Johnny Chuck run down the long tunnel underground until he reach the end .
Then when he hear Reddy Fox digging and know that he be really coming , Johnny Chuck begin to dig , too , only instead of dig down he dig up towards the sunshine and the blue sky .
My , how his short leg do fly and his stout little claws dug into the soft earth !
His little forepaws fly so fast that if you have be there you could hardly have see them at all .
And with his strong hind leg he kick the sand right back into the face of Reddy Fox .
All the little meadow people gather around the hole where Johnny Chuck and Reddy Fox have disappear .
They be very anxious , very anxious indeed .
Would Reddy Fox catch Johnny Chuck ?
And what would he do to him ?
Was all their fun to end in something terrible to sunny-hearted , merry Johnny Chuck , whom everybody love ?
All of a sudden , pop !
right out of the solid earth among the daisy and buttercup , just like a jack-in-the-box , come Johnny Chuck !
He look very warm and a little tired , but he be still chuckle a he scamper across to another hole of Grandfather Chuck 's .
By and by something else crawl out of the hole Johnny Chuck have make .
Could it be Reddy Fox ?
Where be his white waistcoat and beautiful red coat ?
And be that thing drag behind him his splendid tail ?
He creep out of the hole and then just lay down and pant for breath .
He be almost too tired to move .
Then he begin to spit sand out of his mouth and blow it out of his nose and try to wipe it out of his eye .
The long hair of his fine coat be fill full of sand and no one would ever have guess that this be Reddy Fox .
`` Haw !
haw !
haw ! ''
shout Blacky the Crow .
Then everybody shout `` Haw !
haw !
haw ! ''
and begin to roll in the grass and hold on to their side once more ; everybody but Reddy Fox .
When he could get his breath he do n't look this way or that way , but just sneak off to his home under the big hickory .
-LSB- Illustration : Then everybody shout `` Haw !
haw !
haw ! '' -RSB-
And when Old Mother West Wind come with her big bag to take the Merry Little Breezes to their home behind the Purple Hills , Johnny Chuck waddle back up the Lone Little Path chuckle to himself , for that little feeling of discontent be all go .
He have find that after all he could do something good than anybody else on the Green Meadows , for in his heart he know that none could dig so fast a he .
VII JOHNNY CHUCK 'S SECRET Johnny Chuck push up the last bit of gravel from the hole he have dug between the root of the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows .
He smooth it down on the big , yellow mound he have make in front of his door .
Then he sit up very straight on top of the mound , brush his coat , shake the sand from his trouser and carefully clean his hand .
After he have rest a bit , he turn around and look at his new home , for that be what it be , although he have not come there to live yet , and no one knew of it , no one but jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , who , peep between the branch of the old apple tree , have catch Johnny Chuck at work .
But he would n't tell , not jolly Mr. Sun !
Looking down from the blue sky every day he see all sort of queer thing and he learn all kind of secret , do Mr. Sun , but he never , never tell .
No , Sir !
Mr. Sun never tell one of them , not even to Old Mother West Wind when at night they go down together behind the Purple Hills .
So jolly , round , red Mr. Sun just smile and smile when he discover Johnny Chuck 's secret , for that be just what the new home under the apple tree be -- a secret .
Not even the Merry Little Breezes , who find out almost everything , have discover it .
Johnny Chuck chuckle to himself a he plan a back door , a beautiful back door , hide behind a tall clump of meadow grass where no one would think to look for a door .
When he have satisfy himself a to just where he would put it , he once more sat up very straight on his nice , new mound and look this way and look that way to be sure that no one be near .
Then he start for his old home along a secret little path he have make for himself .
Pretty soon he come to the Lone Little Path that go past his own home .
He dance and he skip along the Lone Little Path , and , because he be so happy , he try to turn a somersault .
But Johnny Chuck be so round and fat and rolly-poly that he just tumble over in a heap .
`` Well , well , well !
What 's the matter with you ? ''
say a voice close beside him before he could pick himself up .
It be Jimmy Skunk , who be out look for some beetle for his dinner .
Johnny Chuck scramble to his foot and look foolish , very foolish indeed .
`` There 's nothing the matter with me , Jimmy Skunk , '' say Johnny .
`` There 's nothing the matter with me .
It 's just because I 've get a secret . ''
`` A secret ! ''
cry Jimmy Skunk .
`` What be it ? ''
`` Yes , a secret , a really , truly secret , '' say Johnny Chuck , and look very important .
`` Tell me , Johnny Chuck .
Come on , tell just me , and then we 'll have the secret together , '' beg Jimmy Skunk .
Now Johnny Chuck be so tickled with his secret that it seem a if he must share it with some one .
He just could n't keep it to himself any longer .
`` You wo n't tell any one ? ''
say Johnny Chuck .
Jimmy Skunk promise that he would n't tell a soul .
`` Cross your heart , '' command Johnny Chuck .
Jimmy Skunk cross his heart .
Then Johnny Chuck look this way and look that way to be sure that no one be listen .
Finally he whisper in Jimmy Skunk 's ear : `` I 've get a new home under the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows , '' say Johnny Chuck .
Of course Jimmy Skunk be very much surprise and very much interested , so Johnny Chuck tell him all about it .
`` Now , remember , it 's a secret , '' say Johnny Chuck , a Jimmy Skunk start off down the Lone Little Path across the Green Meadows , to look for some beetle .
`` I 'll remember , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
`` And do n't tell ! ''
call Johnny Chuck .
Jimmy Skunk promise that he would n't tell .
Then Johnny Chuck start off up the Lone Little Path , whistling , and Jimmy Skunk trot down the Lone Little Path onto the Green Meadows .
Jimmy Skunk be think so much about Johnny Chuck 's new home that he quite forget to look for beetle , and he almost run into Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello , Jimmy Skunk , '' say Peter Rabbit , `` ca n't you see where you be go ?
It must be you have something on your mind ; what be it ? ''
`` I be think of Johnny Chuck 's new home , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
`` Johnny Chuck 's new home ! ''
exclaim Peter Rabbit .
`` Has Johnny Chuck get a new home ?
Where be it ? ''
`` Under the root of the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows , '' say Jimmy Skunk , and then he clap both hand over his mouth .
You see he have n't really mean to tell .
It just slip out .
`` Oh , but it 's a secret ! ''
cry Jimmy Skunk .
`` It 's a secret , and you must n't tell .
I guess Johnny Chuck wo n't mind if you know , Peter Rabbit , but you must n't tell any one else . ''
Peter Rabbit promise he would n't .
Now Peter Rabbit be very inquisitive , very inquisitive indeed .
So as soon a he have part from Jimmy Skunk he make up his mind that he must see the new home of Johnny Chuck .
So off he start as fast a he could go towards the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows .
Half way there he meet Reddy Fox .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit !
Where be you go in such a hurry ? ''
ask Reddy Fox .
`` Over to the old apple tree to see Johnny Chuck 's new home , '' reply Peter Rabbit a he try to dodge past Reddy Fox .
Then of a sudden he remember and clap both hand over his mouth .
`` Oh , but it 's a secret , Reddy Fox .
It 's a secret , and you must n't tell ! ''
cry Peter Rabbit .
But Reddy Fox would n't promise that he would n't tell , for in spite of his handsome coat and fine manner , Reddy Fox be a scamp .
And , besides , he have no love for Johnny Chuck , for he have not forget how Johnny Chuck once make him run and call him a '' ` fraid cat . ''
So when Reddy Fox leave Peter Rabbit he grin a wicked grin and hurry off to find Bobby Coon .
He meet him on his way to the Laughing Brook .
Reddy Fox tell Bobby Coon all about Johnny Chuck 's secret and then hurry away after Peter Rabbit , for Reddy Fox also be very inquisitive .
Bobby Coon go on down to the Laughing Brook .
There he meet Billy Mink and tell him about the new home Johnny Chuck have make under the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows .
Pretty soon Billy Mink meet Little Joe Otter and tell him .
Then Little Joe Otter meet Jerry Muskrat and tell him .
Jerry Muskrat saw Blacky the Crow and tell him , and Great-Grandfather Frog hear him .
Blacky the Crow meet his first cousin , Sammy Jay , and tell him .
Sammy Jay meet Happy Jack Squirrel and tell him .
Happy Jack meet his cousin , Striped Chipmunk , and tell him .
Striped Chipmunk pass the house of old Mr. Toad and tell him .
The next morning , very early , before Old Mother West Wind have come down from the Purple Hills , Johnny Chuck stole over to his new home to begin work on his new back door .
He have hardly begin to dig when he hear some one cough right behind him .
He whirl around and there sat Peter Rabbit look a innocent and surprise a if he have really just discover the new home for the first time .
`` What a splendid new home you have , Johnny Chuck ! ''
say Peter Rabbit .
`` Y -- e -- s , '' say Johnny Chuck , slowly .
`` It 's a secret , '' he add suddenly .
`` You wo n't tell , will you , Peter Rabbit ? ''
Peter Rabbit promise that he would n't tell .
Then Johnny Chuck felt well and go back to work as soon a Peter Rabbit leave .
He have hardly begin , however , when some one just above him say : `` Good morning , Johnny Chuck . ''
Johnny Chuck look up and there in the old apple tree sit Blacky the Crow and his cousin , Sammy Jay .
Just then there be a rustle in the grass and out pop Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat and Happy Jack Squirrel and Striped Chipmunk and Bobby Coon .
When Johnny Chuck have recover from his surprise and look over to the doorway of his new home there sat Reddy Fox on Johnny Chuck 's precious new mound .
It seem a if all the little meadow people be there , all but Jimmy Skunk , who wisely stay away .
`` We 've come to see your new home , '' say Striped Chipmunk , `` and we think it 's the nice home we 've see for a long time . ''
`` It 's so nicely hidden away , it 's really quite secret , '' say Reddy Fox , grin wickedly .
Just then up race the Merry Little Breezes and one of them have a message for Johnny Chuck from Great-Grandfather Frog .
It be this : `` Whisper a secret to a friend and you shout it in the ear of the whole world . ''
After every one have admire the new home , they say good-bye and scatter over the Green Meadows .
Then Johnny Chuck begin to dig again , but this time he be n't make his new back door .
No indeed !
Johnny Chuck be dig at that new mound of yellow gravel of which he have be so proud .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun blink to be sure that he saw aright , for Johnny Chuck be fill up his new home between the root of the old apple tree .
When he get through , there be n't any new home .
Then Johnny Chuck brush his coat carefully , shake the sand out of his trouser , wipe his hand and start off for his old home .
And this time he do n't take his special hidden path , for Johnny Chuck do n't care who saw him go .
Late that afternoon , Johnny Chuck sit on his old doorstep , with his chin in his hand , watch Old Mother West Wind gather her Merry Little Breezes into the big bag in which she carry them to their home behind the Purple Hills . ''
` Whisper a secret to a friend and you shout it in the ear of the whole world . '
Now what do Grandfather Frog mean by that ? ''
think Johnny Chuck .
`` Now I do n't tell anybody but Jimmy Skunk and Jimmy Skunk do n't tell anyone but Peter Rabbit and -- and -- '' Then Johnny Chuck begin to chuckle and finally to laugh . ''
` Whisper a secret to a friend and you shout it in the ear of the whole world . '
My gracious , what a loud voice I must have have and do n't know it ! ''
say Johnny Chuck , wipe the tear of laughter from his eye .
And the next day Johnny Chuck start to make a new home .
Where ?
Oh , that 's Johnny Chuck 's secret .
And no one but jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have find it out yet .
VIII JOHNNY CHUCK 'S GREAT FIGHT Johnny Chuck sit on the doorstep of his new home , look away across the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck felt very well satisfied with himself and with all the world .
He yawn lazily and stretch and stretch and then settle himself comfortably to watch the Merry Little Breezes play down by the Smiling Pool .
By and by he saw Peter Rabbit go bob along down the Lone Little Path .
Lipperty , lipperty , lip , go Peter Rabbit and every other jump he look behind him .
`` Now what be Peter Rabbit up to ? ''
say Johnny Chuck to himself , `` and what do he keep look behind him for ? ''
Johnny Chuck sit up a little straighter to watch Peter Rabbit hop down the Lone Little Path .
Then of a sudden he catch sight of something that make him sit up straighter than ever and open his eye very wide .
Something be follow Peter Rabbit .
Yes , Sir , something be bob along right at Peter Rabbit 's heel .
Johnny Chuck forget the Merry Little Breezes .
He forget how warm it be and how lazy he felt .
He forget everything else in his curiosity to learn what it could be follow so closely at Peter Rabbit 's heel .
Presently Peter Rabbit stop and sit up very straight and then -- Johnny Chuck nearly tumble over in sheer surprise !
He rub his eye to make sure that he saw aright , for there be two Peter Rabbits !
Yes , Sir , there be two Peter Rabbits , only one be very small , very small indeed .
`` Oh ! ''
say Johnny Chuck , `` that must be Peter Rabbit 's baby brother ! ''
Then he begin to chuckle till his fat side shake .
There sat Peter Rabbit with his funny long ears stand straight up , and there right behind him , dress exactly like him , sit Peter Rabbit 's baby brother with his funny little long ear stand straight up .
When Peter Rabbit wiggle his right ear , his baby brother wiggle his right ear .
When Peter Rabbit scratch his left ear , his baby brother scratch his left ear .
Whatever Peter Rabbit do , his baby brother do too .
Presently Peter Rabbit start on down the Lone Little Path -- lipperty , lipperty , lip , and right at his heel go his baby brother -- lipperty , lipperty , lip .
Johnny Chuck watch them out of sight , and then he settle himself on his doorstep once more to enjoy a sun bath .
Every once in a while he chuckle to himself a he remember how funny Peter Rabbit 's baby brother have look .
Presently Johnny Chuck fell asleep .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have climb quite high in the sky when Johnny Chuck awoke .
He yawn and stretch and stretch and yawn , and then he sit up to look over the Green Meadows .
Then he become wide awake , very wide awake indeed !
Way down on the Green Meadows he catch a glimpse of something red jumping about in the long meadow grass .
`` That must be Reddy Fox , '' think Johnny Chuck .
`` Yes , it surely be Reddy Fox .
Now I wonder what mischief he be up to . ''
Then he saw all the Merry Little Breezes race towards Reddy Fox as fast a they could go .
And there be Sammy Jay scream at the top of his voice , and his cousin , Blacky the Crow .
Happy Jack Squirrel be dance up and down excitedly on the branch of an old elm close by .
Johnny Chuck wait to see no more , but start down the Lone Little Path to find out what it all be about .
Half way down the Lone Little Path he meet Peter Rabbit run as hard a he could .
His long ear be lay flat back , his big eye seem to pop right out of his head , and he be run as Johnny Chuck have never see him run before .
`` What be you run so for , Peter Rabbit ? ''
ask Johnny Chuck .
`` To get Bowser the Hound , '' shout Peter Rabbit over his shoulder , a he try to run faster .
`` Now what can be the matter ? ''
say Johnny Chuck to himself , `` to send Peter Rabbit after Bowser the Hound ? ''
He know that , like all the other little meadow people , there be nothing of which Peter Rabbit be so afraid a Farmer Brown 's great dog , Bowser the Hound .
Johnny Chuck hurry down the Lone Little Path a fast a his short leg could take his fat , rolly-poly self .
Presently he come out onto the Green Meadows , and there he saw a sight that set every nerve in his round little body a-tingle with rage .
Reddy Fox have find Peter Rabbit 's baby brother and be do his best to frighten him to death .
`` I 'm go to eat you now , '' shout Reddy Fox , and then he spring on Peter Rabbit 's baby brother and give him a cuff that send him heel over head sprawl in the grass .
`` Coward !
Coward , Reddy Fox ! ''
shriek Sammy Jay .
`` Shame !
Shame ! ''
shout the Merry Little Breezes .
`` You 're nothing but a great big bully ! ''
yell Blacky the Crow .
But no one do anything to help Peter Rabbit 's baby brother , for Reddy Fox be so much big than any of the rest of them , except Bobby Coon , that all the little meadow people be afraid of him .
But Reddy Fox just laugh at them , and nip the long ear of Peter Rabbit 's little brother so hard that he cry with the pain .
Now all be so intent watch Reddy Fox torment the baby brother of Peter Rabbit that no one have see Johnny Chuck come down the Lone Little Path .
And for a few minute no one recognize the furious little yellow-brown bundle that suddenly knock Reddy Fox over and seize him by the throat .
You see it do n't look a bit like Johnny Chuck .
Every hair be stand on end , he be so mad , and this make him appear twice as big a they have ever see him before .
`` Coward !
Coward !
Coward ! ''
shriek Johnny Chuck a he shake Reddy Fox by the throat .
And then begin the great fight that the Green Meadows have ever see .
Now Johnny Chuck be not naturally a fighter .
Oh my , no !
He be so good-natured and so sunny-hearted that he seldom quarrel with any one .
But when he have to fight , there be n't a cowardly hair on him , not the teeny , weeny one .
No one ever have a chance to cry , '' ` Fraid cat !
Cry baby ! ''
after Johnny Chuck .
So though , like all the other little meadow people , he be usually just a little afraid of Reddy Fox , because Reddy be so much big , he forget all about it as soon a he catch sight of Reddy Fox torment Peter Rabbit 's little brother .
He do n't stop to think of what might happen to himself .
He do n't stop to think at all .
He just grit his teeth and in a flash have Reddy Fox on his back .
Such a fight be never see before on the Green Meadows !
Reddy Fox be a bully and a coward , for he never fight with any one of his own size if he can help it , but when he have to fight , he fight hard .
And he certainly have to fight now .
`` Bully ! ''
hiss Johnny Chuck a with his stout little hind foot he rip the bright red coat of Reddy Fox .
`` You great big bully ! ''
Over and over they roll , Johnny Chuck on top , then Reddy Fox on top , then Johnny Chuck up again , claw and snarl .
It seem a if news of the fight have go over all the Green Meadows , for the little meadow people come run from every direction -- Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Jerry Muskrat , Striped Chipmunk , Jimmy Skunk , old Mr. Toad .
Even Great-Grandfather Frog , who leave his big lily pad , and come hurry with great jump across the Green Meadows .
They form a ring around Reddy Fox and Johnny Chuck and dance with excitement .
And all want Johnny Chuck to win .
Peter Rabbit 's poor little brother , so sore and lame from the knock about from Reddy Fox , and so frighten that he hardly dare breathe , lay flat on the ground under a little bush and be forget by all but the Merry Little Breezes , who cover him up with some dead grass , and kiss him and whisper to him not to be afraid now .
How Peter Rabbit 's little brother do hope that Johnny Chuck would win !
His great , big , round , soft eye be wide with terror a he think of what might happen to him if Reddy Fox should whip Johnny Chuck .
But Reddy Fox be n't whip Johnny Chuck .
Try a he would , he could not get a good hold on that round , fat , little body .
And Johnny Chuck 's stout claw be rip his red coat and white vest and Johnny Chuck 's sharp teeth be grip him so that they could not be shake loose .
Pretty soon Reddy Fox begin to think of nothing but get away .
Every one be shout for Johnny Chuck .
Every time Reddy Fox be underneath , he would hear a great shout from all the little meadow people , and he know that they be glad .
Now Johnny Chuck be round and fat and rolly-poly , and when one be round and fat and rolly-poly , one 's breath be apt to be short .
So it be with Johnny Chuck .
He have fight so hard that his breath be nearly go .
Finally he loose his hold on Reddy Fox for just a second to draw in a good breath .
Reddy Fox saw his chance , and , with a quick pull and spring , he break away .
How all the little meadow people do scatter !
You see they be very brave , very brave indeed , so long a Johnny Chuck have Reddy Fox down , but now that Reddy Fox be free , each one be suddenly afraid and think only of himself .
Jimmy Skunk knock Jerry Muskrat flat in his hurry to get away .
Billy Mink trod on Great-Grandfather Frog 's big foot and do n't even say `` Excuse me . ''
Striped Chipmunk run head first into a big thistle and squeal as much from fear a pain .
But Reddy Fox pay no attention to any of them .
He just want to get away , and off he start , limp as fast a he could go up the Lone Little Path .
Such a look sight !
His beautiful red coat be in tatter .
His face be scratch .
He hobble a he run .
And just a he break away , Johnny Chuck make a grab and pull a great mouthful of hair out of the splendid tail Reddy Fox be so proud of .
When the little meadow people saw that Reddy Fox be actually run away , they stop run themselves , and all begin to shout : `` Reddy Fox be a coward and a bully !
Coward !
Coward ! ''
Then they crowd around Johnny Chuck and all begin talk at once about his great fight .
Just then they hear a great noise up on the hill .
They saw Reddy Fox come back down the Lone Little Path , and he be use his leg just as well a he know how .
Right behind him , his great mouth open and wake all the echo with his big voice , be Bowser the Hound .
You see , although Peter Rabbit could n't fight for his little baby brother and be usually very , very timid , he be n't altogether a coward .
Indeed , he have be very brave , very brave indeed .
He have go up to Farmer Brown 's and have jump right under the nose of Bowser the Hound .
Now that be something that Bowser the Hound never can stand .
So off he have start after Peter Rabbit .
And Peter Rabbit have start back for the Green Meadows as fast a his long leg could take him , for he know that if once Bowser the Hound catch sight of Reddy Fox , he would forget all about such a little thing a a saucy rabbit .
Sure enough , half way down the Lone Little Path they meet Reddy Fox sneak off home , and , when Bowser the Hound saw him , he straightway forget all about Peter Rabbit , and , with a great roar , start after Reddy Fox .
When Johnny Chuck have carefully brush his coat and all the little meadow people have wish him good luck , he start off up the Lone Little Path for home , the Merry Little Breezes dance ahead and Peter Rabbit come lipperty , lipperty , lip behind , and right between them hop Peter Rabbit 's little brother , who think Johnny Chuck the great hero in the world .
When they reach Johnny Chuck 's old home , Peter Rabbit and Peter Rabbit 's little brother try to tell him how thankful they be to him , but Johnny Chuck just laugh and say : `` It be nothing at all , just nothing at all . ''
When at last all have go , even the Merry Little Breezes , Johnny Chuck slip away to his new home , which be his secret , you know , which no one know but jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , who wo n't tell .
`` I hope , '' say Johnny Chuck , a he stretch himself out on the mound of warm sand by his doorway , for he be very tired , `` I hope , '' say Johnny Chuck , sigh contentedly , `` that Reddy Fox get away from Bowser the Hound ! ''
And Reddy Fox do .
IX MR. TOAD 'S OLD SUIT Peter Rabbit be tire and very sleepy a he hop along the Crooked Little Path down the hill .
He could see Old Mother West Wind just empty her Merry Little Breezes out of her big bag onto the Green Meadows to play all the bright summer day .
Peter Rabbit yawn and yawn again a he watch them dance over to the Smiling Pool .
Then he hop on down the Crooked Little Path towards home .
Sammy Jay , sit on a fence post , saw him come .
`` Peter Rabbit out all night !
Oh my goodness what a sight !
Peter Rabbit , reprobate !
No good end will be your fate ! ''
shout Sammy Jay .
Peter Rabbit run out his tongue at Sammy Jay .
`` Who steal Happy Jack 's nut ?
Thief !
Thief !
Thief ! ''
shout Peter Rabbit at Sammy Jay , and keep on down the Crooked Little Path .
It be true -- Peter Rabbit have be out all night play in the moonlight , steal a midnight feast in Farmer Brown 's cabbage patch and get into mischief with Bobby Coon .
Now when most of the little meadow people be just wake up Peter Rabbit be think of bed .
Presently he come to a big piece of bark which be the roof of Mr. Toad 's house .
Mr. Toad be sit in his doorway blinking at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , who have just begin to climb up the sky .
`` Good morning , Mr. Toad , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` Good morning , '' say Mr. Toad .
`` You 're look very fine this morning , Mr. Toad , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` I 'm feel very fine this morning , '' say Mr. Toad .
`` Why , my gracious , you have on a new suit , Mr. Toad ! ''
exclaim Peter Rabbit .
`` Well , what if I have , Peter Rabbit ? ''
demand Mr. Toad .
`` Oh , nothing , nothing , nothing at all , Mr. Toad , nothing at all , '' say Peter Rabbit hastily , `` only I do n't know you ever have a new suit .
What have you do with your old suit , Mr. Toad ? ''
`` Swallowed it , '' say Mr. Toad shortly , turn his back on Peter Rabbit .
And that be all Peter Rabbit could get out of Mr. Toad , so he start on down the Crooked Little Path .
Now Peter Rabbit have a great deal of curiosity and be forever poke into other people 's affair .
The more he think about it the more he wonder what Mr. Toad could have do with his old suit .
Of course he have n't swallow it !
Who ever heard of such a thing !
The more he think of it the more Peter Rabbit felt that he must know what Mr. Toad have do with his old suit .
By this time he have forget that he have be out all night .
He have forget that he be sleepy .
He have get to find out about Mr. Toad 's old suit .
`` I 'll just run over to the Smiling Pool and ask Grandfather Frog .
He 'll surely know what Mr. Toad do with his old suit , '' say Peter Rabbit , and begin to hop faster .
When he reach the Smiling Pool there sit Great-Grandfather Frog on his big green lily pad a usual .
There be a hungry look in his big goggly eye , for it be so early that no foolish , green fly have come his way yet .
But Peter Rabbit be too full of curiosity in Mr. Toad 's affair to notice this .
`` Good morning , Grandfather Frog , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` Good morning , '' reply Grandfather Frog a wee bit gruffly .
`` You 're look very fine this morning , Grandfather Frog , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` Not so fine a I 'd feel if I have a few fat , foolish , green fly , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` I 've just meet your cousin , Mr. Toad , and he have on a new suit , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` Indeed ! ''
reply Grandfather Frog .
`` Well , I think it 's high time . ''
`` What do Mr. Toad do with his old suit , Grandfather Frog ? ''
ask Peter Rabbit .
`` Chug-a-rum !
It 's none of my business .
Maybe he swallow it , '' reply Grandfather Frog crossly , and turn his back on Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit saw that his curiosity must remain unsatisfied .
He suddenly remember that he have be out all night and be very , very sleepy , so he start off home across the Green Meadows .
Now the Merry Little Breezes have hear all that Peter Rabbit and Grandfather Frog have say , and they make up their mind that they would find out from Grandfather Frog what Mr. Toad really do do with his old suit .
First of all they scatter over the Green Meadows .
Presently back they all come , each blow ahead of him a fat , foolish , green fly .
Right over to the big green lily pad they blow the green fly .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Chug-a-rum !
Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog , a each fat , foolish , green fly disappear inside his white and yellow waistcoat .
When the last one be out of sight , all but a leg which be leave stick out of a corner of Grandfather Frog 's big mouth , one of the Merry Little Breezes venture to ask him what become of Mr. Toad 's old suit .
Grandfather Frog settle himself comfortably on the big green lily pad and fold his hand across his white and yellow waistcoat .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' begin Grandfather Frog .
`` Once upon a time -- '' The Merry Little Breezes clap their hand and settle themselves among the buttercup and daisy , for they know that soon they would know what Mr. Toad do with his old suit .
`` Once upon a time , '' begin Grandfather Frog again , `` when the world be young , old King Bear receive word that old Mother Nature would visit the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
Of course old King Bear want his kingdom and his subject to look their very best , so he issue a royal order that every one of the little meadow people and every one of the little forest folk should wear a new suit on the day that old Mother Nature be to pay her visit .
`` Now like old King Bear , every one want to appear his very best before old Mother Nature , but a no one know the exact day she be to come , every one begin at once to wear his best suit , and to take the great care of it .
Old King Bear appear every day in a suit of glossy black .
Lightfoot the Deer , throw away his dingy gray suit , and put on a coat of beautiful red and fawn .
Mr. Mink , Mr . Otter , Mr. Muskrat , Mr. Rabbit , Mr. Woodchuck , Mr. Coon , who you know be first cousin to old King Bear , Mr. Gray Squirrel , Mr. Fox Squirrel , Mr. Red Squirrel , all put on brand new suit .
Mr . Skunk change his black and white stripe for a suit of all black , very handsome , very handsome indeed .
Mr. Chipmunk take care to see that his new suit have the most beautiful stripe to be obtain .
`` Mr. Jay , who be something of a dandy , have a wonderful new coat that look for all the world a it if have be cut from the blue patch of sky and trim with edge take from the white cloud .
Even Mr. Crow and Mr. Owl take pain to look their very best .
`` But Mr. Toad could n't see the need of such a fuss .
He think his neighbor spend altogether too much time and thought on dress .
To be sure he be anxious to look his best when old Mother Nature come , so he get a new suit all ready .
But Mr. Toad could n't afford to sit around in idleness admire his new clothes .
No indeed !
Mr. Toad have too much to do .
He be altogether too busy .
He have a large garden to take care of , have Mr. Toad , and work in a garden be very hard on clothes .
So Mr. Toad just wear his old suit over his new one and go on about his business .
`` By and by the great day come when old Mother Nature arrive to inspect the kingdom of old King Bear .
All the little meadow people and all the little forest folk hasten to pay their respect to old Mother Nature and to strut about in their fine clothes -- all but Mr. Toad .
He be so busy that he do n't even know that old Mother Nature have arrive .
`` Late in the afternoon , Mr. Toad stop to rest .
He have just clear his cabbage patch of the slug which threaten to eat up his crop and he be very tired .
Presently he happen to look up the road , and who should he see but old Mother Nature herself come to visit his garden and to find out why Mr. Toad have not be to pay her his respect .
`` Suddenly Mr. Toad remember that he have on his working clothes , which be very old , very dirty and very ragged .
For just a minute he do n't know what to do .
Then he dive under a cabbage leaf and begin to pull off his old suit .
But the old suit stuck !
He be in such a hurry and so excite that he could n't find the button .
Finally he get his trouser off .
Then he reach over and get hold of the back of his coat and tug and haul until finally he pull his old coat off right over his head just a if it be a shirt .
`` Mr. Toad give a great sigh of relief a he step out in his new suit , for you remember that he have be wear that new suit underneath the old one all the time .
`` Mr. Toad be very well pleased with himself until he think how terribly untidy that rag old suit look lie on the ground .
What should he do with it ?
He could n't hide it in the garden , for old Mother Nature 's eye be so sharp that she would be sure to see it .
What should he do ?
`` Then Mr. Toad have a happy thought .
Every one make fun of his big mouth .
But what be a big mouth for if not to use ?
He would swallow his old suit !
In a flash Mr. Toad dive under the cabbage leaf and cram his old suit into his mouth .
`` When old Mother Nature come into the garden , Mr. Toad be wait in the path to receive her .
Very fine he look in his new suit and you would have think he have be wait all day to receive old Mother Nature , but for one thing -- swallow a much and as hard a he would , he could n't get down quite all of his old suit , and a leg of his trouser hang out of a corner of his big mouth .
`` Of course old Mother Nature saw it right away .
And how she do laugh !
And of course Mr. Toad felt very much mortify .
But Mother Nature be so pleased with Mr. Toad 's garden and with Mr. Toad 's industry that she quite overlook the ragged trouser leg hang from the corner of Mr. Toad 's mouth . ''
` Fine clothes arc not to be compare with fine work , ' say old Mother Nature . '
I herewith appoint you my chief gardener , Mr. Toad .
And a a sign that all may know that this be so , hereafter you shall always swallow your old suit whenever you change your clothes ! '
`` And from that day to this the toad have be the very best of gardener .
And in memory of their great , great , great-grandfather a thousand time remove they have always swallow their old suit .
`` Now you know what my cousin , old Mr. Toad , do with his old suit just before Peter Rabbit pass his house this morning , '' conclude Great-Grandfather Frog .
`` Oh , '' cry the Merry Little Breezes , `` thank you , thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
Then they race away across the Green Meadows and up the Crooked Little Path to see if old Mr. Toad be garden .
And Peter Rabbit still wonder what old Mr. Toad do with his old suit .
X GRANDFATHER FROG GETS EVEN Old Grandfather Frog sit on his big green lily pad in the Smiling Pool dreaming of the day when the world be young and the frog rule the world .
His hand be fold across his white and yellow waistcoat .
Round , red , smile Mr. Sun send down his warm ray on the back of Grandfather Frog 's green coat .
Very early that morning Old Mother West Wind , hurry down from the Purple Hills on her way to help the white-sailed ship across the great ocean , have stop long enough to blow three or four fat , foolish , green fly over to the big lily pad , and they be now safely inside the white and yellow waistcoat .
A thousand little tadpole , the great , great-grandchildren of Grandfather Frog , be play in the Smiling Pool , and every once in a while wriggle up to the big lily pad to look with awe at Grandfather Frog and wonder if they would ever be a handsome and big and wise a he .
And still old Grandfather Frog sit dream and dreaming of the day when all the frog have tail and rule the world .
Presently Billy Mink come hop and skip down the Laughing Brook .
Sometimes he swim a little way and sometimes he run a little way along the bank , and sometimes he jump from stone to stone .
Billy Mink be feel very good -- very good indeed .
He have catch a fine fat trout for breakfast .
He have hide two more away for dinner in a snug little hole no one knew of but himself .
Now he have nothing to do but get into mischief .
You can always depend upon Billy Mink to get into mischief .
He just ca n't help it .
So Billy Mink come hop and skip down the Laughing Brook to the Smiling Pool .
Then he stop , as still a the rock he be stand on , and peep through the bulrush .
Billy Mink be very cautious , very cautious indeed .
He always look well before he show himself , that nothing may surprise him .
So Billy Mink look all over the Smiling Pool and the grassy bank .
He saw the sunbeam dance on the water .
He saw the tadpole have such a good time in the Smiling Pool .
He saw the Merry Little Breezes kiss the buttercup and daisy on the bank , and he saw old Grandfather Frog with his hand fold across his white , and yellow waistcoat sit on the green lily pad , dreaming of the day when the world be young .
Then Billy Mink take a long breath , a very long breath , and dive into the Smiling Pool .
Now , Billy Mink can swim very fast , very fast indeed .
For a little way he can swim even faster than Mr. Trout .
And he can stay under water a long time .
Straight across the Smiling Pool , with not even the tip of his nose out of water , swim Billy Mink .
The thousand little tadpole saw him come and flee in all direction to bury themselves in the mud at the bottom of the Smiling Pool , for when he think no one be look Billy Mink sometimes gobble up a fat tadpole for breakfast .
Straight across the Smiling Pool swam Billy Mink toward the big green lily pad where Grandfather Frog sit dreaming of the day when the world be young .
When he be right under the big green lily pad he suddenly kick up hard with his hind foot .
Up go the big green lily pad , and , of course , up go Grandfather Frog -- up and over flat on his back , with a great splash into the Smiling Pool !
Now , Grandfather Frog 's mouth be very big .
Indeed , no one else have so big a mouth , unless it be his cousin , old Mr. Toad .
And when Grandfather Frog go over flat on his back , splash in the Smiling Pool , his mouth be wide open .
You see he be so surprised he forget to close it .
So , of course , Grandfather Frog swallow a great deal of water , and he choke and splutter and swim around in foolish little circle try to find himself .
Finally he climb out on his big green lily pad .
-LSB- Illustration : He be so surprised he forget to close it . -RSB-
`` Chug-a-rum ? ''
say Grandfather Frog , and look this way and look that way .
Then he give a funny hop and turn about in the opposite direction and look this way and look that way , but all he saw be the Smiling Pool dimpling and smiling , Mrs. Redwing bring a fat worm to her hungry little baby in their snug nest in the bulrush , and the Merry Little Breezes hurry over to see what the trouble might be .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog .
`` It be very strange .
I must have fall asleep and have a bad dream . ''
Then he once more settled himself comfortably on the big green lily pad , fold his hand across his white and yellow waistcoat , and seem to be dream again , only his big goggly eye be not dream .
No , indeed !
They be very much awake , and they saw all that be go on in the Smiling Pool .
Great-Grandfather Frog be just pretend .
You may fool him once , but Grandfather Frog have live so long that he have become very wise , and though Billy Mink be very smart , it take some one a great deal smart than Billy Mink to fool Grandfather Frog twice in the same way .
Billy Mink , hide behind the Big Rock , have laugh and laugh till he have to hold his side when Grandfather Frog have choke and splutter and hop about on the big lily pad try to find out what it all meant .
He think it such a good joke that he could n't keep it to himself , so when he saw Little Joe Otter come to try his slippery slide he swim across to tell him all about it .
Little Joe Otter laugh and laugh until he have to hold his side .
Then they both swim back to hide behind the Big Rock to watch until Grandfather Frog should forget all about it , and they could play the trick over again .
Now , out of the corner of one of his big goggly eye , Grandfather Frog have see Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter with their head close together , laugh and hold their side , and he saw them swim over behind the Big Rock .
Pretty soon one of the Merry Little Breezes dance over to see if Grandfather Frog have really go to sleep .
Grandfather Frog do n't move , not the teeny , weeny bit , but he whisper something to the Merry Little Breeze , and the Merry Little Breeze fly away , shake with laughter , to where the other Merry Little Breezes be play with the buttercup and daisy .
Then all the Merry Little Breezes clap their hand and laugh too .
They leave the buttercup and daisy and begin to play tag across the Smiling Pool .
Now , right on the edge of the Big Rock lay a big stick .
Pretty soon the Merry Little Breezes dance over to the Big Rock , and then , suddenly , all together they give the big stick a push .
Off it go , and then such a splashing and squealing a there be behind the Big Rock !
In a few moment Little Joe Otter creep out beside his slippery slide and slip away hold on to his head .
And , sneak through the bulrush , so a not to be see , crawl Billy Mink , back towards his home on the Laughing Brook .
Billy Mink be n't laugh now .
Oh , no !
He be limp and he be hold on to his head .
Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink have be sit right underneath the big stick .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog and hold on to his side and open his mouth very wide in a noiseless laugh , for Grandfather Frog never make a sound when he laugh .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog once more .
Then he fold his hand across his white and yellow waistcoat and begin again to dream of the day when the frog have long tail and rule the world .
XI THE DISAPPOINTED BUSH Way down beside the Laughing Brook grow a little bush .
It look a whole lot like other little bush all around it .
But really it be quite different , a you shall see .
When in the spring warm , jolly , round Mr. Sun bring back the bird and set them sing , when the little flower pop their head out of the ground to have a look around , then all the little bush put out their green leaf .
This little bush of which I be tell you put out it green leaf with the rest .
The little leaf grow big and big on all the little bush .
By and by on some of the other little bush , little brown bud begin to appear and grow and grow .
Then on more and more of the little bush the little brown bud come and grow and grow .
But on this little bush of which I be tell you no little brown bud appear .
The little bush felt very sad indeed .
Pretty soon all the little brown bud on the other little brown bush burst their brown coat , and then all the little bush be cover with little flower .
Some be white and some be yellow and some be pink ; and the air be fill with the sweet odor of all the little flower .
It bring the bee from far , far away to gather the honey , and all the little bush be very happy indeed .
But the little bush of which I be tell you have no little flower , for you see it have have no little bud , and it felt lonely and shut away from the other little bush , and very sad indeed .
But it bravely keep on grow and grow and grow .
Its little leaf grow big and big and big , and it try it best not to mind because it have no little flower .
Then one by one , and two by two , and three by three , and finally in whole shower , the little flower of all the other little bush fell off , and they look very much like the little bush of which I be tell you , so that the little bush no longer felt sad .
All summer long all the little bush grow and grow and grow .
The bird come and build their nest among them .
Peter Rabbit and his brother and sister scamper under them .
The butterfly fly over them .
By and by come the fall , and with the fall come Jack Frost .
He go about among the little bush , pinch the leaf .
Then the little green leaf turn to brown and red and yellow and pretty soon they flutter down to the ground , the Merry Little Breezes blow them about and all the little bush be bare .
They have no leaf at all to cover their little naked brown limb .
The little bush of which I be tell you lose it leaf with the rest .
But all the summer long this little bush have be grow some of those little brown bud , which the other bush have have in the spring , and now , when all the other little bush have lose all the green leaf , and have nothing at all upon their little brown twig , behold !
one beautiful day , the little bush of which I be tell you be cover with gold , for each little brown bud have burst it little brown coat and there be a beautiful little yellow flower .
Such a multitude of these little yellow flower !
They cover the little bush from top to bottom .
Then the little bush felt very happy indeed , for it be the only bush which have any flower .
And every one who pass that way stop to look at it and to praise it .
Colder grow the weather and colder .
Johnny Chuck tuck himself away to sleep all winter .
Grandfather Frog go deep , deep down in the mud , not to come out again until spring .
By and by the little yellow flower drop off the little bush , just a the other little flower in spring have drop off the other bush .
But they leave behind them tiny little package , one for every little flower that have be on the bush .
All winter long these little package cling to the little bush .
In the spring when the little leaf burst forth in all the little bush , these little package on the little bush of which I be tell you grow and grow and grow .
While the other little bush have a lot of little flower a they have have the year before , these little brown package on the little bush of which I be tell you keep on grow .
And they comfort the little bush because it felt that it really have something worth while .
All the summer long the little brown package grow and grow until they look like little nut .
When the fall come again and all the little leaf drop off all the little bush , and the little bush of which I be tell you be cover with another lot of little yellow flower and be very happy , then these little brown nut , one bright autumn day , suddenly pop open !
And out of each one fly two brown shiny little seed .
You never saw such a popping and a snapping and a jumping !
Pop !
pop !
snap !
snap !
hippetty hop !
they go , faster than the corn pop in the corn popper .
Reddy Fox , who always be suspicious , think some one be shoot at him .
Down on the ground fell the little brown shin seed and tucked themselves into the warm earth under the warm leaf , there to stay all winter long .
And when the third spring come with all it little bird and all it little flower and the warm sunshine , every one of these little brown seed which have tuck themselves into the warm earth , burst it little brown skin , and up into the sunshine come a little green plant , which would grow and grow and grow , and by and by become just like the little bush I be tell you about .
When the little bush look down and saw all these little green child pop out of the ground , it be very happy indeed , for it know that it would no longer be lonely .
It no longer felt bad when all the other bush be cover with flower , for it know that by and by when all the other little bush have lose all their leaf and all their flower , then would come it turn , and it know that for a whole year it little brown child would be hold safe on it branch .
Now , what do you think be the name of this little bush ?
Why , it be the witch hazel .
And sometime when you fall down and bump yourself hard grandma will go to the medicine closet and will bring out a bottle , and from that bottle she will pour something on that little sore place and it will make it feel well .
Do you know what it be ?
It be the gift of the witch hazel bush to little boy and big men to make them feel well when they be hurt .
XII WHY BOBBY COON WASHES HIS FOOD Happy-Go-Lucky Bobby Coon sit on the edge of the Laughing Brook just a round , red Mr. Sun pop up from behind the Purple Hills and Old Mother West Wind turn all her Merry Little Breezes out to romp on the Green Meadows .
Bobby Coon have be out all night .
You see Bobby Coon be very apt to get into mischief , and because usually it be safe to get into mischief under cover of the darkness Bobby Coon prefer the night wherein to go abroad .
Not that Bobby Coon be really bad !
Oh my , no !
Everybody like Bobby Coon .
But he can no more keep out of mischief than a duck can keep out of water .
So Bobby Coon sit on the edge of the Laughing Brook and he be very busy , very busy indeed .
He be wash his breakfast .
Really , it be his dinner , for turn night into day just turn everything topsy-turvy .
So Bobby Coon eats dinner when most of the little meadow people be eat breakfast .
This morning he be very busy wash a luscious ear of sweet corn just in the milk .
He dip it in the water and with one little black paw rub it thoroughly .
Then he look it over carefully before , with a sigh of contentment , he sit down to put it in his empty little stomach .
When he have finish it to the last sweet , juicy kernel , he amble sleepily up the Lone Little Path to the big hollow chestnut tree where he live , and in it great hollow in a soft bed of leaf Bobby Coon curl himself up in a tight little ball to sleep the long , bright day away .
One of the Merry Little Breezes softly follow him .
When he have crawl into the hollow chestnut and only his funny , ring tail hung out , the Merry Little Breezes tweak it sharply just for fun , and then dance away down the Lone Little Path to join the other Merry Little Breezes around the Smiling Pool .
`` Oh !
Grandfather Frog , '' cry a Merry Little Breeze , `` tell u why it be that Bobby Coon always wash his food .
He never eat it where he get it or take it home to his hollow in the big chestnut , but always come to the Laughing Brook to wash it .
None of the other meadow people do that . ''
Now Great-Grandfather Frog be count very wise .
He be very , very old and he know the history of all the tribe of little meadow people way back to the time when the frog rule the world .
When the Merry Little Breeze ask him why Bobby Coon always wash his food , Grandfather Frog stop to snap up a particularly fat , foolish , green fly that come his way .
Then , while all the Merry Little Breezes gather around him , he settle himself on his big green lily pad and begin : `` Once upon a time , when the world be young , old King Bear rule in the Green Forest .
Of course old Mother Nature , who be even more beautiful then than she be now , be the real ruler , but she let old King Bear think he rule so long a he rule wisely .
`` All the little Green Forest folk and all the little people of the Green Meadows use to take present of food to old King Bear , so that he never have to hunt for thing to eat .
He grow fatter and fatter and fatter until it seem a if his skin must burst .
And the fatter he grow the lazier he grow . ''
Grandfather Frog pause with an expectant far-away look in his great bulging eye .
Then he leap into the air so far that when he come down it be with a great splash in the Smiling Pool .
But a he swim back to his big lily pad the leg of a foolish green fly could be see stick out of one corner of his big mouth , and he settle himself with a sigh of great contentment .
`` Old King Bear , '' continue Grandfather Frog , just a if there have be no interruption , `` grow fatter and lazy every day , and like a great many other fat and lazy people who have nothing to do for themselves but be always wait on by others , he grow short and shorter in temper and harder and harder to please .
`` Now perhaps you do n't know it , but the Bear family and the Coon family be very closely relate .
In fact , they be second cousin .
Old Mr. Coon , Bobby Coon 's father with a thousand great tack on before , be young then , and he be very , very proud of be relate to old King Bear .
He begin to pass some of his old playfellow on the Green Meadows without see them .
He spend a great deal of time brush his coat and comb his whisker and care for his big ring tail .
He hold his head very high and he put on such air that pretty soon he could see no one at all but member of his own family and of the royal family of Bear .
`` Now a old King Bear grow fat and lazy he grow fussy , so that he be no longer content to take everything bring him , but pick out the choice portion for himself and leave the rest .
Mr. Coon take charge of all the thing bring a tribute to old King Bear and of course where there be so many goody leave he get all he want without work .
`` So just a old King Bear have grow fat and lazy and selfish , Mr. Coon grow fat and lazy and selfish .
Pretty soon he begin to pick out the best thing for himself and hide them before old King Bear saw them .
When old King Bear be asleep he would go get them and stuff himself like a greedy pig .
And because he be steal and want no one to see him he always eat his stolen feast at night .
`` Now old Mother Nature be , a you all know , very , very wise , oh very wise indeed .
One of the first law she make when the world be young be that every living thing shall work for what it have , and the harder it work the strong it shall grow .
So when Old Mother Nature saw how fat and lazy and selfish old King Bear be get and how fat and lazy and dishonest his cousin , Mr. Coon , be become , she determine that they should be teach a lesson which they would remember for ever and ever and ever .
`` First she proclaim that old King Bear should be king no longer , and no more need the little folk of the Green Forest and the little people of the Green Meadows bring him tribute .
`` Now when old Mother Nature make this proclamation old King Bear be fast asleep .
It be just on the edge of winter and he have pick out a nice warm cave with a great pile of leaf for a bed .
Old Mother Nature peep in at him .
He be snore and probably dream of more good thing to eat .
` If he be to be king no longer , there be no use in wake him now , ' say old Mother Nature to herself , ` he be so fat and so stupid .
He shall sleep until gentle Sister South Wind come in the spring to kiss away the snow and ice .
Then he shall waken with a lean stomach and a great appetite and there shall be none to fee him . '
`` Now old Mother Nature always have a warm heart and she be very fond of Bobby Coon 's grandfather a thousand time remove .
So when she saw what a selfish glutton and thief he have become she decide to put him to sleep just a she have old King Bear .
But first she would teach Mr. Coon that steal food be not the sweet .
`` So old Mother Nature find some tender , juicy corn just in the milk which Mr. Coon have steal from old King Bear .
Then she go down on the Green Meadows where the wild mustard grows and gather a lot of this she rub the juice into the corn and then put it back where Mr. Coon have leave it .
`` Now I have tell you that it be night when Mr. Coon have his stolen feast , for he want no one to see him .
So no one be there when he take a great bite of the tender , juicy corn old Mother Nature have put back for him .
Being greedy and a glutton , he swallow the first mouthful before he have fairly taste it , and take a second , and then such a time a there be on the edge of the Green Forest !
Mr. Coon roll over and over with both of his forepaw clasp over his stomach and groan and groan and groan .
He have rub his eye and of course have get mustard into them and could not see .
He wake up all the little Green Forest folk who sleep through the night , a good people should , and they all gather around to see what be the matter with Mr. Coon .
`` Finally old Mother Nature come to his relief and bring him some water .
Then she lead him to his home in the great hollow in the big chestnut tree , and when she have see him curl up in a tight little ball among the dry leave she put him into the long sleep a she have old King Bear .
`` In the spring , when gentle Sister South Wind kiss away all the snow and ice , old King Bear , who be king no longer , and Mr. Coon awake and both be very thin , and both be very hungry , oh very , very hungry indeed .
Old King Bear , who be king no longer , be n't the least mite fussy about what he have to eat , but ate gladly any food he could find .
`` But Mr. Coon remember the burning of his stomach and mouth and could not forget it .
So whenever he find anything to eat he first take it to the Laughing Brook or the Smiling Pool and wash it very carefully , l there be some mustard on it .
`` And ever since that long ago time , when the world be young , the Coon family have remember that experience of Mr. Coon , who be second cousin to old King Bear , and that be why Bobby Coon wash his food , travel about at night , and sleep all winter , '' conclude Grandfather Frog , fix his great goggle eye on a foolish green fly head his way .
`` Oh thank you , thank you , Grandfather Frog , '' cry the Merry Little Breezes a they dance away over the Green Meadows .
But one of them slip back long enough to get behind the foolish green fly and blow him right up to Grandfather Frog 's big lily pad .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' say Grandfather Frog , smack his lip .
XIII THE MERRY LITTLE BREEZES HAVE A BUSY DAY Old Mother West Wind come down from the Purple Hills in the shadowy coolness of the early morning , before even jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have throw off his rosy coverlids for his daily climb up through the blue sky .
The last little star be blink sleepily a Old Mother West Wind turn her big bag upside down on the Green Meadows and all her child , the Merry Little Breezes , tumble out on the soft green grass .
Then Old Mother West Wind kiss them all around and hurry away to hunt for a rain cloud which have go astray .
The Merry Little Breezes watch her go .
Then they play hide and seek until jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have climb out of bed and be smile down on the Green Meadows .
Pretty soon along come Peter Rabbit , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit ! ''
shout the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Come play with u ! ''
`` Ca n't , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` I have to go find some tender young carrot for my breakfast , '' and away be hurry , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
In a few minute Jimmy Skunk come in sight and he seem to be almost hurry along the Crooked Little Path down the hill .
The Merry Little Breezes dance over to meet him .
`` Hello , Jimmy Skunk ! ''
they cry .
`` Come play with u ! ''
Jimmy Skunk shake his head .
`` Ca n't , '' say he .
`` I have to go look for some beetle for my breakfast , '' and off he go look under every old stick and pulling over every stone not too big for his strength .
The Merry Little Breezes watch him for a few minute and then race over to the Laughing Brook .
There they find Billy Mink steal softly down towards the Smiling Pool .
`` Oh , Billy Mink , come play with u , '' beg the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Ca n't , '' say Billy Mink .
`` I have to catch a trout for Grandfather Mink 's breakfast , '' and he creep on towards the Smiling Pool .
Just then along come Bumble the Bee .
Now Bumble the Bee be a lazy fellow who always make a great fuss , a if he be the busy and most important fellow in the world .
`` Good morning , Bumble , '' cry the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Come play with u ! ''
`` Buzz , buzz , buzz , '' grumble Bumble the Bee .
`` Ca n't , for I have to get a sack of honey , '' and off he hurry to the near dandelion .
Then the Merry Little Breezes hunt up Johnny Chuck .
But Johnny Chuck be busy , too busy to play .
Bobby Coon be asleep , for he have be out all night .
Reddy Fox also be asleep .
Striped Chipmunk be in such a hurry to fill the pocket in his cheek that he could hardly stop to say good morning .
Happy Jack Squirrel just flirt his big tail and rush away a if he have many important thing to attend to .
Finally the Merry Little Breezes give it up and sit down among the buttercup and daisy to talk it over .
Every one seem to have something to do , every one but themselves .
It be such a busy world that sunshiny morning !
Pretty soon one of the Merry Little Breezes hop up very suddenly and begin the mad little dance among the buttercup .
`` As we have n't anything to do for ourselves let 's do something for somebody else ! ''
he shout .
Up jump all the Little Breezes , clap their hand .
`` Oh let 's ! ''
they shout .
Way over across the Green Meadows they could see two long ear above the nodding daisy .
`` There 's Peter Rabbit , '' cry one .
`` Let 's help him find those tender young carrot ! ''
No sooner propose than off they all race to see who could reach Peter first .
Peter be sit up very straight , look this way and look that way for some tender young carrot , but not one have he find , and his stomach be empty .
The Merry Little Breezes stop just long enough to tickle his long ear and pull his whisker , then away they race , scatter in all direction , to see who could first find a tender young carrot for Peter Rabbit .
By and by when one of them do find a field of tender young carrot he rush off , take the smell of them with him to tickle the nose of Peter Rabbit .
Peter wriggle his nose , his funny little nose , very fast when it be tickle with the smell of tender young carrot , and the Merry Little Breeze laugh to see him .
`` Come on , Peter Rabbit , for this be my busy day ! ''
he cry .
Peter Rabbit do n't have to be invite twice .
Away he go , lipperty-lipperty-lip , a fast a his long leg could take him after the Merry Little Breeze .
And presently they come to the field of tender young carrot .
`` Oh thank you , Merry Little Breeze ! ''
cry Peter Rabbit , and straightway begin to eat his breakfast .
Another Merry Little Breeze , slip up the Crooked Little Path on the hill , spy the hind leg of a fat beetle stick out from under a flat stone .
At once the Little Breeze remember Jimmy Skunk , who be hunt for beetle for his breakfast .
Off rush the Little Breeze in merry whirl that make the grass sway and bend and the daisy nod .
When after a long , long hunt he find Jimmy Skunk , Jimmy be very much out of sort .
In fact Jimmy Skunk be positively cross .
You see , he have n't have any breakfast , for hunt a he would he could n't find a single beetle .
When the Merry Little Breeze dance up behind Jimmy Skunk and , just in fun , rumple up his black and white coat , Jimmy quite lose his temper .
In fact he say some thing not at all nice to the Merry Little Breeze .
But the Merry Little Breeze just laugh .
The more he laugh the crosser Jimmy Skunk grow , and the crosser Jimmy Skunk grow the more the Merry Little Breeze laugh .
It be such a jolly laugh that pretty soon Jimmy Skunk begin to grin a little sheepishly , then to really smile and finally to laugh outright in spite of his empty stomach .
You see it be very hard , very hard indeed and very foolish , to remain cross when someone else be perfectly good natured .
Suddenly the Merry Little Breeze dance up to Jimmy Skunk and whisper in his right ear .
Then he dance around and whisper in his left ear .
Jimmy Skunk 's eye snap and his mouth begin to water .
`` Where , Little Breeze , where ? ''
he beg .
`` Follow me , '' cry the Merry Little Breeze , race off up the Crooked Little Path so fast that Jimmy Skunk lose his breath try to keep up , for you know Jimmy Skunk seldom hurry .
When they come to the big flat stone Jimmy Skunk grasp it with both hand and pull and pull .
Up come the stone so suddenly that Jimmy Skunk fell over flat on his back .
When he have scramble to his foot there be beetle and beetle , run in every direction to find a place to hide .
`` Thank you , thank you , Little Breeze , '' shout Jimmy Skunk a he start to catch beetle for his breakfast .
And the Little Breeze laugh happily a he dance away to join the other Merry Little Breezes on the Green Meadows .
There he find them very , very busy , very busy indeed , so busy that they could hardly find time to nod to him .
What do you think they be do ?
They be tot gold !
Yes , Sir , tot gold !
And this be how it happen : While the first Little Breeze be show Peter Rabbit the field of tender young carrot , and while the second Little Breeze be lead Jimmy Skunk to the flat stone and the beetle , the other Merry Little Breezes have find Bumble the Bee .
Now Bumble the Bee be a lazy fellow , though he pretend to be the busy fellow in the world , and they find him grumble a he buzz with a great deal of fuss from one flower to another .
`` What 's the matter , Bumble ? ''
cry the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Matter enough , '' grumble Bumble the Bee .
`` I 've get to make a sack of honey , and a if that be n't enough , old Mother Nature have order me to carry a sack of gold from each flower I visit to the next flower I visit .
If I do n't I can get no honey .
Buzz-buzz-buzz , '' grumble Bumble the Bee .
The Merry Little Breezes look at the million little flower on the Green Meadows , each wait a sack of gold to give and a sack of gold to receive .
Then they look at each other and shout happily , for they too would now be able to cry `` busy , busy , busy . ''
From flower to flower they hurry , each with a bag of gold over his shoulder .
Wherever they leave a bag they take a bag , and all the little flower nod happily to see the Merry Little Breezes at work .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun climb high and high and higher in the blue sky , where he can look down and see all thing , great and small .
His smile be broad than ever a he watch the hurrying , scurry Little Breezes work instead of play .
Yet after all it be a kind of play , for they dance from flower to flower and run race across bare place where no flower grow .
By and by the Merry Little Breezes meet Peter Rabbit .
Now Peter Rabbit have make a good breakfast of tender young carrot , so he felt very good , very good indeed .
`` Hi ! ''
shout Peter Rabbit , `` come play with me . ''
`` Ca n't , '' cry the Merry Little Breezes all together , `` we have work to do ! ''
Off they hurry , while Peter Rabbit stretch himself out full length in a sunny spot , for Peter Rabbit also be a lazy fellow .
Down the Crooked Little Path onto the Green Meadows come Jimmy Skunk .
`` Ho ! ''
shout Jimmy Skunk as soon a he saw the Little Breezes , `` come play with me . ''
`` Ca n't , '' cry the Little Breezes , `` for we be busy , busy , busy , '' and they laugh happily .
When they reach the Laughing Brook they find Billy Mink curl up in a round ball , fast asleep .
It be n't often that Billy Mink be catch nap , but he have have a good breakfast of trout , he have find no one to play with and , a he never work and the day be so bright and warm , he have first look for a place where he think no one would find him and have then curl himself up to sleep , One of the Little Breezes lay down the bag of gold he be carry and creep ever so softly over to Billy Mink begin to tickle one of Billy 's ear with a straw .
At first Billy Mink do n't open his eye , but rub his ear with a little black hand .
Finally he jump to his foot wide awake and ready to fight whoever be bother him .
But all he saw be a laughing Little Breeze run away with a bag of gold on his back .
So all day long , till Old Mother West Wind come with her big bag to carry them to their home behind the Purple Hills , the Merry Little Breezes hurry this way and that way over the Green Meadows .
No wee flower be too tiny to give and receive it share of gold , and not one be overlook by the Merry Little Breezes .
Old Mother Nature , who know everything , heard of the busy day of the Merry Little Breezes .
Nobody know how she hear of it .
Perhaps jolly , round , red Mr. Sun tell her .
Perhaps -- but never mind .
You ca n't fool old Mother Nature anyway and it 's of no use to try .
So old Mother Nature visit the Green Meadows to see for herself , and when she find how the Merry Little Breezes have distribute the gold she be so pleased that straightway she announce to all the world that thenceforth and for all time the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind should have charge of the distribution of the gold of the flower on the Green Meadows , which they have to this day .
And since that day the Merry Little Breezes have be merry than ever , for they have find that it be not nearly so much fun to play all the time , but that to work for some good in the world be the great fun of all .
So every year when the gold of the flower , which some people do not know be gold at all but call pollen , be ready you will find the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind very , very busy among the flower on the Green Meadows .
And this be the happy time of all .
XIV WHY HOOTY THE OWL DOES NOT PLAY ON THE GREEN MEADOWS The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind be have a good-night game of tag down on the Green Meadows .
They be have such a jolly time while they wait for Old Mother West Wind and her big bag to take them to their home behind the Purple Hills .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have already put his nightcap on .
Black shadow creep softly out from the Purple Hills onto the Green Meadows .
The Merry Little Breezes grow sleepy , almost too sleepy to play , for Old Mother West Wind be very , very late .
Farther and far and far out onto the Green Meadows creep the black shadow .
Suddenly one seem to separate from the others .
Softly , oh so softly , yet swiftly , it float over towards the Merry Little Breezes .
One of them happen to look up and saw it come .
It be the same Little Breeze who one time stay out all night .
When he look up and saw this seem shadow move so swiftly he know that it be no shadow at all .
`` Here come Hooty the Owl , '' cry the Little Breeze .
Then all the Merry Little Breezes stop their game of tag to look at Hooty the Owl .
It be seldom they have a chance to see him , for usually Hooty the Owl do not come out on the Green Meadows until after the Merry Little Breezes be snugly tuck in bed behind the Purple Hills .
`` Perhaps Hooty the Owl will tell u why it be that he never come out to play with u , '' say one of the Little Breezes .
But just a Hooty the Owl float over to them up come Old Mother West Wind , and she be in a great hurry , for she be late , and she be tire .
She have have a busy day , a very busy day indeed , hunt for a rain cloud which have go astray .
So now she just open her big bag and tumble all the Merry Little Breezes into it as fast a she could without give them so much a a chance to say `` Good evening '' to Hooty the Owl .
Then she take them off home behind the Purple Hills .
Of course the Merry Little Breezes be disappointed , very much disappoint .
But they be also very sleepy , for they have play hard all day .
`` Never mind , '' say one of them , drowsily , `` to-morrow we 'll ask Great-Grandfather Frog why it be that Hooty the Owl never come out to play with u on the Green Meadows .
He 'll know . ''
The next morning Old Mother West Wind be late in come down from the Purple Hills .
When she finally do turn the Merry Little Breezes out of her big bag onto the Green Meadows jolly , round , red Mr. Sun be already quite high in the blue sky .
The Merry Little Breezes wait just long enough to say `` Good-by '' to Old Mother West Wind , and then start a mad race to see who could reach the Smiling Pool first .
There they find Great-Grandfather Frog sit on his big green lily pad a usual .
He be very contented with the world , be Grandfather Frog , for fat green fly have be more foolish than usual that morning and already he have all that he could safely tuck inside his white and yellow waistcoat .
`` Good morning , Grandfather Frog , '' shout the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Will you tell u why it be that Hooty the Owl never come out to play with u on the Green Meadows ? ''
`` Chug-a-rum , '' say Great-Grandfather Frog , gruffly , `` how should I know ? ''
You see , Grandfather Frog like to be tease a little .
`` Oh , but you do know , for you be so old and so very wise , '' cry the Merry Little Breezes all together .
Grandfather Frog smile , for he like to be think very wise , and also he be feel very good , very good indeed that morning .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` If you 'll sit perfectly still I 'll tell you what I know about Hooty the Owl .
But remember , you must sit perfectly still , per-fect-ly still . ''
The Merry Little Breezes sigh , for it be the hard thing in the world for them to keep perfectly still unless they be asleep .
But they promise that they would , and when they have settle down , each one in the heart of a great white water lily , Grandfather Frog begin : `` Once upon a time , when the world be young , Hooty the Owl 's grandfather a thousand time remove use to fly about in daylight with the other bird .
He be very big and very strong and very fierce , be Mr. Owl .
He have great big claw and a hooked bill , just a Hooty the Owl have now , and he be afraid of nothing and nobody .
`` Now when people be very big and very strong and afraid of nothing and nobody they be very apt to care for nothing and nobody but themselves .
So it be with Mr. Owl .
Whatever he saw that he want he take , no matter to whom it belong , for there be no one to stop him .
`` As I have already tell you , Mr. Owl be very big and very strong and very fierce and he be a very great glutton .
It take a great many little bird and little animal to satisfy his appetite .
But he do n't stop there !
No , Sir , he do n't stop there !
He use to kill harmless little meadow people just for the fun of killing , and because he could .
Every day he grow more savage .
Finally no one small than himself dare stir on the Green Meadows when he be around .
The little bird no longer sing .
The Fieldmice child no longer play among the meadow grass .
Those be sad day , very sad day indeed on the Green Meadows , '' say Grandfather Frog , with a sigh .
`` At last old Mother Nature come to visit the Green Meadows and she soon saw what a terrible state thing be in .
No one come to meet her , for you see no one dare to show himself for fear of fierce old Mr. Owl .
`` Now I have tell you that Mr. Owl be afraid of nothing and nobody , but this be not quite true , for he be afraid , very much afraid of old Mother Nature .
When he saw her come he be sit on top of a tall dead stump and he at once try to look very meek and very innocent .
`` Old Mother Nature waste no time .
` Where be all my little meadow people and why do they not come to give me greet ? '
demand old Mother Nature of Mr. Owl .
`` Mr. Owl bow very low .
` I 'm sure I do n't know .
I think they must all be take a nap , ' say he .
`` Now you ca n't fool old Mother Nature and it 's of no use to try .
No , Sir , you ca n't fool old Mother Nature .
She just look at Mr. Owl and she look at the feather and fur scatter about the foot of the dead stump .
Mr. Owl stand first on one foot and then on the other .
He try to look old Mother Nature in the face , but he could n't .
You see , Mr. Owl have a guilty conscience and a guilty conscience never look anyone straight in the face .
He do wish that Mother Nature would say something , do Mr. Owl .
But she do n't .
She just look and look and look and look straight at Mr. Owl .
The long she look the uneasier he get and the faster he shift from one foot to the other .
Finally he shift so fast that he seem to be dance on top of the old stump .
`` Gradually , a few at a time , the little meadow people creep out from their hiding place and form a great circle around the old dead stump .
With old Mother Nature there they felt sure that no harm could come to them .
Then they begin to laugh at the funny sight of fierce old Mr. Owl hop from one foot to the other on top of the old dead stump .
It be the first laugh on the Green Meadows for a long , long , long time .
`` Of course Mr. Owl saw them laugh at him , but he could think of nothing but the sharp eye of old Mother Nature bore straight through him , and he dance faster than ever .
The faster he dance the funnier he look , and the funnier he look the harder the little meadow people laugh .
`` Finally old Mother Nature slowly raise a hand and point a long forefinger at Mr. Owl .
All the little meadow people stop laugh to hear what she would say . ''
` Mr. Owl , ' she begin , ' I know and you know why none of my little meadow people be here to give me greet .
And this shall be your punishment : From now on your eye shall become so tender that they can not stand the light of day , so that hereafter you shall fly about only after round , red Mr. Sun have go to bed behind the Purple Hills .
No more shall my little people who play on the Green Meadows all the day long have cause to fear you , for no more shall you see to do them harm . '
`` When she cease speak all the little meadow people give a great shout , for they know that it would be even a Mother Nature have say .
Then begin such a frolic a the Green Meadows have not know for many a long day .
`` But Mr. Owl fly slowly and with difficulty over to the dark part of the deep wood , for the light hurt his eye dreadfully and he could hardly see .
And a he fly the little bird fly around him in a great cloud and pluck out his feather and torment him for he could not see to harm them . ''
Grandfather Frog pause and look dreamily across the Smiling Pool .
Suddenly he open his big mouth and then close it with a snap .
One more foolish green fly have disappear inside the white and yellow waistcoat .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' say Grandfather Frog , `` those be sad day , sad day indeed for Mr. Owl .
He could n't hunt for his meal by day , for the light blind him .
At night he could see but little in the darkness .
So he get little to eat and he grow thinner and thinner and thinner until he be but a shadow of his former self .
He be always hungry , be Mr. Owl , always hungry .
No one be afraid of him now , for it be the easy thing in the world to keep out of his way .
`` At last old Mother Nature come again to visit the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
Far , far in the dark part of the deep wood she find Mr. Owl .
When she saw how very thin and how very , very miserable he be her heart be move to pity , for old Mother Nature love all her subject , even the bad of them .
All the fierceness be go from Mr. Owl .
He be so weak that he just sit huddle in the thick part of the great pine .
You see he have be able to catch very little to eat . ''
` Mr. Owl , ' say old Mother Nature gently , ` you now know something of the misery and the suffering which you have cause others , and I think you have be punish enough .
No more may you fly abroad over the Green Meadows while the day be bright , for still be the fear of you in the heart of all my little meadow people , but hereafter you shall not find it so difficult to get enough to eat .
Your eye shall grow big , big than the eye of any other bird , so that you shall be able to see in the dusk and even in the dark .
Your ear shall grow large , large than the ear of any of the little forest or meadow people , so that you can hear the very least sound .
Your feather shall become as soft a down , so that when you fly none shall hear you . '
`` And from that day it be even so .
Mr. Owl 's eye grow big and big until he could see as well in the dusk a he use to see in the full light of day .
His ear grow large and large until his hearing become so keen that he could hear the least rustle , even at a long distance .
And when he fly he make no sound , but float like a great shadow .
`` The little meadow people no longer fear him by day , but when the shadow begin to creep out from the Purple Hills each night and they hear his voice ` Whoo-too-whoo-hoo-hoo ' they felt all the old fear of him .
If they be wise they do not stir , but if they be foolish and so much a shivered Mr. Owl be sure to hear them and silently pounce upon them .
`` So once more Mr. Owl grow strong and fierce .
But only at night have anyone cause to fear him , and then only the foolish and timid .
`` And now you know , '' conclude Grandfather Frog , `` why it be that Hooty the Owl never come out to play with you on the Green Meadows , and why his eye be so big and his ear so large . ''
`` Thank you , thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
cry the Merry Little Breezes , spring up from the white water lily and stretch themselves .
`` We 'll bring you the first foolish green fly we can find . ''
Then away they rush to hunt for it .
XV DANNY MEADOW MOUSE LEARNS TO LAUGH Danny Meadow Mouse sit on his doorstep and sulk .
The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind run past , one after another , and point their finger at him cry : `` Fie , Danny Meadow Mouse !
Better go inside the house !
Babies cry -- oh my !
oh my !
You 're a baby -- go and cry ! ''
Pretty soon along the Lone Little Path come Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit look at Danny Meadow Mouse .
Then he point a finger at him and say : `` Cry , Danny , cry !
Mammy 'll whip you by and by !
Then we 'll all come ` round to see How big a baby you can be .
Cry , Danny , cry ! ''
Danny Meadow Mouse begin to snivel .
He cry softly to himself a Peter Rabbit hop off down the Lone Little Path .
Soon along come Reddy Fox .
He saw Danny Meadow Mouse sit on his doorstep cry all by himself .
Reddy Fox creep up behind a tall bunch of grass .
Then suddenly he jump out right in front of Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Boo ! ''
cry Reddy Fox .
It frighten Danny Meadow Mouse .
He jump almost out of his skin , and run into the house cry at the top of his voice .
`` Ha , ha , ha , '' laugh Reddy Fox `` Danny , Danny , cry Dan Boo-hoo-hooed and off he run ! ''
Then Reddy Fox chase his tail all the way down the Lone Little Path onto the Green Meadows .
By and by Danny Meadow Mouse come out again and sit on his doorstep .
He have stop cry , but he look very unhappy and cross and sulky .
Hopping and skip down the Lone Little Path come Striped Chipmunk .
`` Come play with me , '' call Danny Meadow Mouse .
Striped Chipmunk keep right on hop and skip down the Lone Little Path .
`` Do n't want to , '' say Striped Chipmunk , stick his tongue in his cheek .
`` Cry-baby Danny Never 'll be a manny !
Run to mamma , Danny , dear , And she will wipe away your tear ! ''
Striped Chipmunk hop and skip out of sight , and Danny Meadow Mouse begin to cry again because Striped Chipmunk would not play with him .
It be true , dreadfully true !
Danny Meadow Mouse be a cry-baby and no one want to play with him .
If he stub his toe he cry .
If Striped Chipmunk beat him in a race he cry .
If the Merry Little Breezes pull his whisker just in fun he cry .
It have come to such a pas that all the little meadow people delight to tease him just to make him cry .
Nowhere on all the Green Meadows be there such a cry-baby a Danny Meadow Mouse .
So Danny sit on his doorstep and cry because no one would play with him and he be lonely .
The more he think how lonely he be , the more he cry .
Presently along come old Mr. Toad .
Now Mr. Toad look very grumpy and out of sort , but that be because you do not know old Mr. Toad .
When he reach the house of Danny Meadow Mouse he stop right in front of Danny .
He put his right hand behind his right ear and listen .
Then he put his left hand behind his left ear and listen some more .
Finally he put both hand on his hip and begin to laugh .
Now Mr. Toad 's mouth be very big indeed , and when he open it to laugh he open it very wide indeed .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
laugh Mr. Toad .
Danny Meadow Mouse cry hard than ever , and the harder he cry the harder old Mr. Toad laugh .
By and by Danny Meadow Mouse stop cry long enough to say to Mr. Toad : `` What be you laugh for , Mr. Toad ? ''
Mr. Toad stop laugh long enough to reply : `` I 'm laugh , Danny Meadow Mouse , because you be cry at me .
What be you cry for ? ''
`` I 'm cry , '' say Danny Meadow Mouse , `` because you be laugh at me . ''
Then Danny begin to cry again , and Mr. Toad begin to laugh again .
`` What 's all this about ? ''
demand some one right behind them .
It be Jimmy Skunk .
`` It 's a new kind of game , '' say old Mr. Toad .
`` Danny Meadow Mouse be try to see if he can cry long than I can laugh . ''
Then old Mr. Toad once more open his big mouth and begin to laugh hard than ever .
Jimmy Skunk look at him for just a minute and he look so funny that Jimmy Skunk begin to laugh too .
Now a good honest laugh be like whoop cough -- it be catch .
The first thing Danny Meadow Mouse know his tear would not come .
It 's a fact , Danny Meadow Mouse have run short of tear .
The next thing he know he be n't cry at all -- he be laugh .
Yes , Sir , he actually be laugh .
He try to cry , but it be of no use at all ; he just have to laugh .
The more he laugh the harder old Mr. Toad laugh .
And the hard Mr. Toad laugh the funnier he look .
Pretty soon all three of them , Danny Meadow Mouse , old Mr. Toad and Jimmy Skunk , be hold their side and roll over and over in the grass , they be laugh so hard .
By and by Mr. Toad stop laugh .
`` Dear me , dear me , this will never do ! ''
say Mr. Toad .
`` I must get busy in my garden .
`` The little slug , they creep and crawl And eat and eat from spring to fall They never stop to laugh nor cry , And really could n't if they 'd try .
So if you 'll excuse me I 'll hurry along to get them out of my garden . ''
Mr. Toad start down the Lone Little Path .
After a few hop he pause and turn around .
`` Danny Meadow Mouse , '' say old Mr. Toad , `` an honest laugh be like sunshine ; it brighten the whole world .
Do n't forget it . ''
Jimmy Skunk remember that he have start out to find some beetle , so still chuckle he start for the Crooked Little Path up the hill .
Danny Meadow Mouse , once more alone , sit down on his doorstep .
His side be sore , he have laugh so hard , and somehow the whole world have change .
The grass seem green than he have ever see it before .
The sunshine be brighter and the song of the bird be sweeter .
Altogether it be a very nice world , a very nice world indeed to live in .
Somehow he felt a if he never want to cry again .
Pretty soon along come the Merry Little Breezes again , chase butterfly .
When they saw Danny Meadow Mouse sit on his doorstep they point their finger at him , just a before , and shout : `` Fie , Danny Meadow Mouse !
Better go inside the house !
Babies cry -- oh my !
oh my !
You 're a baby -- go and cry ! ''
For just a little minute Danny Meadow Mouse want to cry .
Then he remember old Mr. Toad and instead begin to laugh .
The Merry Little Breezes do n't know just what to make of it .
They stop chase butterfly and crowd around Danny Meadow Mouse .
They begin to tease him .
They pull his whisker and rumple his hair .
The more they tease the more Danny Meadow Mouse laugh .
When they find that Danny Meadow Mouse really be n't go to cry , they stop tease and invite him to come play with them in the long meadow grass .
Such a good frolic a they do have !
When it be over Danny Meadow Mouse once more sat down on his doorstep to rest .
Hopping and skip back up the Lone Little Path come Striped Chipmunk .
When he saw Danny Meadow Mouse he stick his tongue in his cheek and cry : `` Cry-baby Danny Never 'll be a manny !
Run to mamma , Danny dear , And she will wipe away your tear ! ''
Instead of cry Danny Meadow Mouse begin to laugh .
Striped Chipmunk stop and take his tongue out of his cheek .
Then he begin to laugh too .
`` Do you want me to play with you ? ''
ask Striped Chipmunk , suddenly .
Of course Danny do , and soon they be have the merry kind of a game of hide and seek .
Right in the midst of it Danny Meadow Mouse catch his left foot in a root and twist his ankle .
My , how it do hurt !
In spite of himself tear do come into his eye .
But he wink them back and bravely begin to laugh .
Striped Chipmunk help him back to his doorstep and cut funny caper while Mother Meadow Mouse bind up the hurt foot , and all the time Danny Meadow Mouse laugh until pretty soon he forget that his foot ache at all .
When Peter Rabbit come jump along up the Lone Little Path he begin to shout as soon a he saw Danny Meadow Mouse : `` Cry , Danny , cry !
Mammy 'll whip you by and by !
Then we 'll all come ` round to see How big a baby you can be .
Cry , Danny , cry ! ''
But Danny do n't cry .
My , no !
He laugh instead .
Peter Rabbit be so surprised that he stop to see what have come over Danny Meadow Mouse .
When he saw the bandaged foot and hear how Danny have twist his ankle Peter Rabbit sit right down on the doorstep beside Danny Meadow Mouse and tell him how sorry he be , for happy-go-lucky Peter Rabbit be very tender-hearted .
Then he tell Danny all about the wonderful thing he have see in his travel , and of all the scrape he have get into .
When Peter Rabbit finally start off home Danny Meadow Mouse still sit on his doorstep .
But no longer be he lonely .
He watch Old Mother West Wind try to gather her Merry Little Breezes into her big bag to take to their home behind the Purple Hills , and he laugh right out when he saw her catch the last mischievous Little Breeze and tumble him , heel over head , in with the others .
`` Old Mr. Toad be right , just exactly right , '' think Danny Meadow Mouse , a he rock to and fro on his doorstep .
`` It be much well , oh very much well , to laugh than to cry . ''
And since that day when Danny Meadow Mouse learn to laugh , no one have have a chance to point a finger at him and call him a cry-baby .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Mother_West_Wind_ '' How '' _Stories.txt.out
I HOW OLD KING EAGLE WON HIS WHITE HEAD MOTHER WEST WIND `` HOW '' STORIES I HOW OLD KING EAGLE WON HIS WHITE HEAD Peter Rabbit sit on the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch , star up into the sky with his head tip back until it make his neck ache .
Way , way up in the sky be a black speck sail across the snowy white face of a cloud .
It do n't seem possible that it could be alive way up there .
But it be .
Peter know that it be , and he know who it be .
It be King Eagle .
By and by it disappear over towards the Great Mountain .
Peter rub the back of his neck , which ache because he have tip his head back so long .
Then he give a little sigh .
`` I wonder what it seem like to be able to fly like that , '' say he out loud , a way he sometimes have .
`` Are you envious ? ''
ask a voice so close to him that Peter jump .
There be Sammy Jay sit in a little tree just over his head .
`` No ! ''
snap Peter , for it make him a wee bit cross to be so startled .
`` No , I 'm not envious , Sammy Jay .
I 'm not envious of any bird .
The ground be good enough for me .
I be just wonder , that 's all . ''
`` Have you ever see King Eagle close to ? ''
ask Sammy .
`` Once , '' reply Peter .
`` Once he come down to the Green Meadows and sit in that lone tree over there , and I be squat in a bunch of grass quite near and could see him very plainly .
He be big and fierce-looking , but he look his name , every inch a king .
I 've wonder a good many time since how it happen that he have a white head . ''
`` Because , '' reply Sammy , `` he be just what he look to be , -- king of the bird , -- and that white head be the sign of his royalty give his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather by Old Mother Nature , way back in the beginning of thing . ''
Peter 's eye sparkle .
`` Tell me about it , Sammy , '' he beg .
`` Tell me about it , and I wo n't quarrel with you any more . ''
`` All right , Peter .
I 'll tell you the story , because it will do you good to hear it .
I suppose everybody know it .
All bird do .
That be why we all look up to King Eagle , '' reply Sammy .
`` Way back in the beginning of thing , old King Bear rule in the Green Forest , a you know .
That be , he rule the animal and all the little people who live on the ground , but he do n't rule the bird .
You see the bird be not willing to be rule over by an animal .
They want one of their own kind .
So they refuse to have old King Bear a their king and go to Old Mother Nature to ask her to appoint a king of the air .
Now Mr. Eagle be one of the big and strong and most respect of all the bird of the air .
There be some , like Mr . Goose and Mr. Swan , who be big , but they spend most of their time on the water or the earth , and they have no great claw or hooked beak to command respect a do Mr. Eagle .
So Old Mother Nature make Mr. Eagle king of the air , and a be quite right and proper , all the bird hasten to pay him homage .
`` So King Eagle rule the air and none dare to cross him or to disobey him .
Unlike old King Bear , he accept no tribute from his subject but hunt for himself , and instead of grow fat and lazy , a do old King Bear , he grow strong of wing and fear no one and nothing .
Now this be in the day when the world be young , and Old Mother Nature be very busy try to make the world a good place to live in , so she have very little time to look after the bird and the animal .
Thus she leave matter very much to King Eagle and old King Bear .
They settle all the quarrel between their subject , and for a while everything go smoothly .
`` King Eagle make his home on the cliff of a mountain , so that he could look down on all below and see what be go on .
Every day he go down to the Green Forest and sit on the tall tree while he listen to the complaint of the other bird and settle their dispute , and none question his decision .
Now after a while , this little part of the earth where the animal and the bird first live become overcrowded .
It become hard and hard to get enough to eat .
Quarrels become more frequent , until King Eagle have little time for anything but straighten out these trouble and try to keep peace .
`` Old Mother Nature have be away a long time try to make other part of the world fit to live in .
No one know when she be come back or just where she be .
King Eagle , sit on the edge of the cliff on the mountain , think it all over .
Old Mother Nature ought to know how thing be .
He would send a messenger to try to find her .
So the next day he call all the bird together and ask who would go out into the unknown Great World to look for Old Mother Nature and take a message to her .
`` No one offer .
This one have a family to look after .
That one be not feel well .
Another have a pain in his wing .
One and all they have an excuse until Hummer , the tiny of all the bird , be reach .
He dart into the air before King Eagle .
` I 'll go , ' say he .
`` All the others laugh .
The very idea of such a tiny fellow go out to dare the danger of the unknown Great World seem to them so absurd that they just have to laugh .
But King Eagle do n't laugh .
He thank Hummer and tell him that his heart be as big a his body be small , but that he would not send him out into the Great World , for he would go himself .
He have be but try out his subject , and he have find but one who be worthy , and that one be the small of them all .
Then King Eagle say thing that make all the other bird hang their head for shame and want to sneak out of sight .
`` After that , he tell them that no king who be worthy to be king would ask his subject to do what he would not do himself , and that where there be danger to be face or something hard to do , it be the king 's place to do it , so he himself be go out into the unknown Great World to find Mother Nature and see what could be do to make thing good and happy for them .
Then he spread his great wing and sail away , every inch a king .
They watch him until he be a speck in the sky , and finally he disappear altogether .
`` Day after day they watch for him to come back , but there be no sign of him ; they begin to shake their head and openly talk of choose a new king .
Only little Mr. Hummer keep his faith and day after day fly away in the direction old King Eagle have go , hop to meet him come back .
At last a day be set to choose a new king .
That morning , as soon a it be light enough to see , little Mr. Hummer dart away , and his heart be heavy .
He would take no part in choose a new king .
He would go until he find King Eagle or until something happen to him .
Pretty soon he saw a speck way up against a cloud , a speck no big than himself .
It grow big and big , and at last he know that it be King Eagle himself .
Little Mr. Hummer turn and fly a he never have fly before .
He want to get back before a new king be choose , so that King Eagle might never know that his subject have lose faith in him .
`` He be so out of breath when he reach the other bird that he could n't say a word for a few minute .
Then he tell them that King Eagle be come .
The other bird have prove that they be not brave when they have refuse to go out in search of Old Mother Nature , and now they prove it again .
Instead of wait to give King Eagle a royal welcome , they hurry away , one after another .
They be afraid to meet him , because in their heart they know that they have do a cowardly thing in decide to choose a new king .
So when King Eagle , weary and with torn wing and broken tail feather , drop down to the tall tree in the Green Forest , there be none to give him greet save little Mr. Hummer .
`` King Eagle say nothing about the failure of the other bird to give him greet but at once send little Mr. Hummer around to tell all the others that far away he have find Old Mother Nature prepare a new land for them , and that when she give the word , he would lead them to it .
Then King Eagle fly to his home on the cliff of the mountain , and not one word do he ever say of his terrible journey , of how he have go hungry , have be beat by storm , and have suffer from cold and weariness , yet never once have turn back .
`` But when Old Mother Nature come later and announce that the new land be ready for the bird , she first call them together and tell them all that King Eagle have suffer , and how he have prove himself a royal king .
As a reward she promise that his family should be ruler over the bird forever , and a a sign that this should be so , she reach forth and touch his black head , and it become snowy white , and all the bird cry ` Long live the king ! '
`` Then Old Mother Nature turn to tiny Mr. Hummer and touch his throat , and behold a shin ruby be there , the reward of loyalty , faith , and bravery .
`` Then King Eagle mount into the air and proudly lead the way to the promised land .
And so the bird go forth and people the Great World , and King Eagle and his child and his child 's child have rule the air ever since and have wear the snowy crown which King Eagle of long ago so bravely win . ''
II HOW OLD MR. MINK TAUGHT HIMSELF TO SWIM II HOW OLD MR. MINK TAUGHT HIMSELF TO SWIM Of all the little people who live in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows or around the Smiling Pool , Billy Mink have the most accomplishment .
At least , it seem that way to his friend and neighbor .
He can run very swiftly ; he can climb very nimbly ; his eye and his ear and his nose be all wonderfully keen , and -- he can swim like a fish .
Yes , Sir , Billy Mink be just as much at home in the water a out of it .
So , wherever he happen to be , in the Green Forest , out on the Green Meadows , along the Laughing Brook , or in the Smiling Pool , he feel perfectly at home and quite able to look out for himself .
Once Billy Mink have boast that he could do anything that any one else who wear fur could do , but boaster almost always come to grief , and Grandfather Frog have bring Billy to grief that time .
He have invite every one to meet at the Smiling Pool and see Billy Mink do whatever any one else who wear fur could do , and then , when Billy have run and jump and climb and swim , Grandfather Frog have call Flitter the Bat .
There be some one wearing fur who could fly , and of course Billy Mink could n't do that .
It cure Billy of boasting , -- for a while , anyway .
Now Peter Rabbit , who can do little but run and jump , use sometimes to feel a wee bit of envy in his heart when he think of all the thing that Billy Mink could do and do well .
Somehow Peter could never make it seem quite right that one person should be able to do so many thing when others could do only one or two thing .
He say as much to Grandfather Frog one day , a they watch Billy Mink catch a fat trout .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog and look sharply at Peter .
`` Chug-a-rum !
People never know what they can do till they try .
Once upon a time Billy Mink 's great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather could n't swim any more than you can , but he do n't waste any time foolishly wishing that he could . ''
`` What do he do ? ''
ask Peter eagerly .
`` Learned how , '' reply Grandfather Frog gruffly .
`` Made it his business to learn how .
Then he teach his child , and they teach their child , and after a long time it come natural to the Mink family to swim . ''
`` Did it take old Mr. Mink very long to learn how ? ''
ask Peter wistfully .
`` Quite a while , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` Quite a while .
Perhaps you would like to hear about it . ''
`` Oh , if you please , Grandfather Frog , '' cry Peter .
`` If you please .
I should love dearly to hear about it .
Perhaps then I can learn to swim . ''
Grandfather Frog snap up a foolish green fly that happen his way , and Peter hear something that sound very much like a chuckle .
He look at Grandfather Frog suspiciously .
Was that chuckle because of the foolish green fly , or be Grandfather Frog laugh at him ?
Peter be n't sure .
`` It all happen a long time ago when the world be young , a a great many other thing happen , '' begin Grandfather Frog .
`` Old Mr. Mink , the ever-so-great-grandfather of Billy Mink , could n't do all the thing that Billy can now .
For instance , he could n't swim .
But he could do a great many thing , and he be very smart .
It have always run in the Mink family to be smart .
He dress very much a Billy do now , except that he do n't have the waterproof coat that Billy have .
And he be a great traveler , just a Billy be .
Everybody small than he and some who be big be a little bit afraid of old Mr. Mink , for he be quite a sly and cunning a Mr. Fox , and it be suspect that he know a great deal more than he ever admit about egg that be steal and nest that be break up , and other strange thing that happen in the Green Forest and along the Laughing Brook .
But he never be catch do anything wrong and always seem to be mind his own business , so , all thing consider , he get along very well with his neighbor .
`` Now Mr. Mink be small and spry , and his wit be as nimble a his foot .
He saw all that be go on about him , and he be wise enough to keep his tongue still , so that it never get him into trouble a gossipy tongue do some people I know . ''
Peter Rabbit fidget uneasily .
It seem to him that Grandfather Frog have look at him very hard when he say this .
But Grandfather Frog just clear his throat and go on with his story .
`` Yes , Sir , old Mr. Mink keep his eye wide open and his ear wide open and the wit in his little brown head always work .
He notice that those who be fussy about what they eat and insist on have a special kind of food often go hungry or have to hunt long and hard to find what they like , so he make up his mind to learn to eat many kind of food .
This be how it happen that he learn to like fish .
His big cousin , Mr . Otter , often catch a big fish than he could eat all himself and would leave some of it on the bank .
Mr. Mink would find it and help himself .
`` But have to depend on Mr . Otter to get the fish for him do n't suit Mr. Mink at all .
In the first place , he do n't have as much a he want .
And then again he do n't have it when he want it .
` If I could learn to catch fish for myself , I would be much good off , ' think Mr. Mink .
After this he spend a great deal of time on the bank of the Smiling Pool watch Mr . Otter swim to see just how he do it .
` If he can swim , I can swim , ' say Mr. Mink to himself , and go off up the Laughing Brook to a quiet little pool where the water be not deep .
`` At first he do n't like it at all .
The water get in his ear and up his nose and choke him .
And then it be so dreadfully wet !
But he would grit his teeth and keep at it .
After a while he get so that he could paddle around a little .
Gradually he lose his fear of the water .
Then he find that because he naturally move so quickly he could sometimes catch foolish minnow who swim in where the water be very shallow .
This be great sport , and he quite often have fish for dinner now .
`` But he be n't satisfy .
No , Sir , he be n't satisfy .
Whatever Mr. Mink do , he want to do well .
He could run well and climb well , and there be no good hunter in all the Green Forest .
He be bound that he would swim well .
So he keep try and try .
He learn to fill his lung with air and hold his breath for a long time , while he swim as fast a ever he could with his head under water a he have see his cousin , Mr . Otter , swim .
The more he do this , the longer he could hold his breath .
After a while he find that because he be slim and trim and move so fast , he could out-swim Mr. Muskrat , and this make him feel very good indeed , for Mr. Muskrat spend nearly all his time in the water and be account a very good swimmer .
There be only one thing that bother Mr. Mink .
The water be so dreadfully wet !
Every time he come out of it , he have to run his hard to dry off and keep from get cold .
This be very tiresome and he do wish that there be an easy way of dry off .
`` Then come the bad time , the sad time , when food be scarce , and most of the little people in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadow go hungry .
But Mr. Mink do n't go hungry .
Oh , my , no !
You see , he have learn to catch fish , and so he have plenty to eat .
When Old Mother Nature come to see how all the little people be get along , she be very much surprise to find that Mr. Mink have become a famous swimmer .
She watch him catch a fish .
Then she watch him run about to dry off and keep from get cold , and her eye twinkle . ''
` He who help himself deserve to be help , ' say Old Mother Nature .
Mr. Mink do n't know what she mean by that , but the next morning he find out .
Yes , Sir , the next morning he find out .
He find that he have a brand new coat over his old one , and the new one be waterproof .
He could swim as much a he please and not get the least bit wet , because the water could n't get through that new coat .
And ever since that long-ago day when the world be young , the Minks have have waterproof coat and have be famous fisherman .
Hello , Peter Rabbit !
What under the sun be you try to do , swell yourself up that way ? ''
`` I -- I be just practise hold my breath , '' reply Peter and look very , very foolish .
`` Ho , ho , ho !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
laugh Grandfather Frog .
`` You ca n't learn to swim by hold your breath on dry land , Peter Rabbit . ''
III HOW OLD MR. TOAD LEARNED TO SING III HOW OLD MR. TOAD LEARNED TO SING Peter Rabbit never will forget how he laugh the first time he hear Old Mr. Toad say that he could sing and be go to sing .
Why , Peter would as soon think of sing himself , and that be something he can no more do than he can fly .
Peter have know Old Mr. Toad ever since he could remember .
He be rather fond of him , even if he do play joke on him once in a while .
But he always think of Old Mr. Toad a one of the homely of all his friend , -- slow , awkward , and too commonplace to be very interesting .
So when , in the glad joyousness of the spring , Old Mr. Toad have tell Jimmy Skunk that he be go down to the Smiling Pool to sing because without him the great chorus there would lack one of it sweet voice , Peter and Jimmy have laugh till the tear come .
A few day later Peter happen over to the Smiling Pool for a call on Grandfather Frog .
A mighty chorus of joy from unseen singer rise from all about the Smiling Pool .
Peter know about those singer .
They be Hylas , the little cousin of Sticky-toes the Tree Toad .
Peter sit very still on the edge of the bank try to see one of them .
Suddenly he become aware of a new note , one he never have notice before and sweet than any of the others .
Indeed it be one of the sweet of all the spring song , as sweet a the love note of Tommy Tit the Chickadee , than which there be none sweeter .
It seem to come from the shallow water just in front of Peter , and he look eagerly for the singer .
Then his eye open until it seem a if they would pop right out of his head , and he drop his low jaw foolishly .
There be Old Mr. Toad with a queer bag Peter never have see before swell out under his chin , and as surely a Peter be sit on that bank , it be Old Mr. Toad who be the sweet singer !
Old Mr. Toad pay no attention to Peter , not even when he be speak to .
He be so absorb in his singing that he just do n't hear .
Peter sit there a while to listen ; then he call Jimmy Skunk and Unc ' Billy Possum , who be also listen to the music , and they be just as surprised a Peter .
Then he spy Jerry Muskrat at the other end of the Smiling Pool and hurry over there .
Peter be so full of the discovery he have make that he could think of nothing else .
He fairly ache to tell .
`` Jerry ! ''
he cry .
`` Oh , Jerry Muskrat !
Do you know that Old Mr. Toad can sing ? ''
Jerry look surprise that Peter should ask such a question .
`` Of course I know it , '' say he .
`` It would be mighty funny if I do n't know it , see that he be the sweet singer in the Smiling Pool and have sing here every spring since I can remember . ''
Peter look very much chagrin .
`` I do n't know it until just how , '' he confess .
`` I do n't believe him when he tell me that he could sing .
I wonder how he ever learn . ''
`` He do n't learn any more than you learn how to jump , '' reply Jerry .
`` It just come to him naturally .
His father sang , and his grandfather , and his great grandfather , way back to the beginning of thing .
I think everybody know about that . ''
`` I do n't .
Tell me about it .
Please do , Jerry , '' beg Peter .
`` All right , I will , '' reply Jerry good-naturedly .
`` It 's something you ought to know about , anyway .
In the first place , Old Mr. Toad belong to a very old and honorable family , one of the very old .
I 've hear say that it go way back almost to the very beginning of thing when there be n't much land .
Anyway , the first Toad , the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Old Mr. Toad and own cousin to the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Grandfather Frog , be one of the first to leave the water for the dry land .
`` Old Mother Nature meet him hop along and make hard work of it because , of course , it be so new .
She look at him sharply .
` What be you do here ? '
she demand .
` Are n't you content with the water where you be bear ? '
`` Mr. Toad bow very low .
` Yes 'm , ' say he very humbly .
` I 'll go right back there if you say so .
I think there must be some thing worth find out on the land , and that I might be of some use in the Great World . '
`` His answer please Old Mother Nature .
She be worry .
She have plant all kind of thing on the land , and they be spring up everywhere , but she have discover that bug of many kind like the tender green thing and be increase so fast and be so greedy that they threaten to strip the land of all that she have plant .
She have so many thing to attend to that she have n't time to take care of the bug .
` If you truly want to be of some use , ' say she , ` you can attend to some of those bug . '
`` Mr. Toad go right to work , and Old Mother Nature go about some other business .
Having so many other thing to look after , she quite forget about Mr. Toad , and it be several week before she come that way again .
Right in the middle of a great bare place where the bug have eat everything be a beautiful green spot , and patiently hop from plant to plant be Mr. Toad , snap up every bug he could see .
He do n't see Old Mother Nature and keep right on work .
She watch him a while a he hop from plant to plant catch bug as fast a he could , and then she speak . ''
` Have you stay right here ever since I last saw you ? '
she ask .
`` Mr. Toad give a start of surprise .
` Yes 'm , ' say he . ''
` But I think you want to see the Great World and learn thing , ' say she .
`` Mr. Toad look a little embarrassed .
` So I do , ' he reply , ` but I want to be of some use , and the bug have keep me so busy there be no time to travel .
Besides , I have learn a great deal right here .
I -- I could n't get around fast enough to save all the plant , but I have save what I could . '
`` Old Mother Nature be more pleased than she be willing to show , for Mr. Toad be the first of all the little people who have try to help her , and he have do what he could willingly and faithfully . '' '
I suppose , ' say she , speak a little gruffly , ` you expect me to reward you . '
`` Mr. Toad look surprised and a little hurt . '
I do n't want any reward , ' say he . '
I do n't do it for that .
It will be reward enough to know that I really have help and to be allow to continue to help . '
`` At that Old Mother Nature 's face light with one of her most beautiful smile .
` Mr. Toad , ' say she , ` if you could have just what you want , what would it be ? '
`` Mr. Toad hesitate a few minute and then say shyly , ' A beautiful voice . '
`` It be Old Mother Nature 's turn to look surprised . '
A beautiful voice ! '
she exclaim .
` Pray , why do you want a beautiful voice ? ' ''
` So that I can express my happiness in the most beautiful way I know of , -- by sing , ' reply Mr. Toad . ''
` You shall have it , ' declare Old Mother Nature , ` but not all the time l you be tempt to forget your work , which , you know , be the real source of true happiness .
In the spring of each year you shall go back to your home in the water , and there for a time you shall sing to your heart 's content , and there shall be no sweeter voice than yours . '
`` Sure enough , when the next spring come , Mr. Toad be fill with a great longing to go home .
When he get there , he find that in his throat be a little music bag ; and when he swell it out , he have one of the sweet voice in the world .
And so it have be ever since with the Toad family .
Old Mr. Toad be one of the sweet singer in the Smiling Pool , but when it be time to go back to work he never grumble , but be one of the most faithful worker in Mother Nature 's garden , '' conclude Jerry Muskrat .
Peter sigh .
`` I never could work , '' say he .
`` Perhaps that be why I can not sing . ''
`` Very likely , '' reply Jerry Muskrat , quite forget that he can not sing himself although he be a great worker .
IV HOW OLD MR. CROW LOST HIS DOUBLE TONGUE IV HOW OLD MR. CROW LOST HIS DOUBLE TONGUE `` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
Blacky the Crow sit in the top of a tall tree and seem try to see just how much noise he could make with that harsh voice of his .
Peter Rabbit peer out from the dear Old Briar-patch and frown .
`` If I have a voice as unpleasant a that , I 'd forget I could talk .
Yes , Sir , I 'd forget I have a tongue , '' declare Peter .
Somebody laugh , and Peter turn quickly to find Jimmy Skunk .
`` What be you laugh at ? ''
demand Peter .
`` At the idea of you forget that you have a tongue , '' reply Jimmy .
`` Well , I would if I have a voice like Blacky 's , '' persist Peter , although he grin a wee bit foolishly a he look at Jimmy Skunk , for you know Peter be a great gossip .
`` It 's lucky for you that you have n't then , '' retort Jimmy .
`` I 'm afraid that you would lose your tongue just a old Mr. Crow do . ''
That sound like a story .
Right away Peter sit up and take notice .
`` Did old Mr. Crow really lose his tongue ?
How do he lose it ?
Why do he lose it ?
When -- '' Jimmy Skunk clap a hand over each ear and pretend that he be go to run away .
Peter jump in front of him .
`` No , you do n't ! ''
he cry .
`` You 've just get to tell me that story , Jimmy Skunk . ''
`` What story ? ''
ask Jimmy , a if he have n't the least idea in the world what Peter be talk about , though of course he know perfectly well .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
shout Blacky the Crow from the distant tree-top .
`` The story of how old Mr. Crow lose his tongue .
You may as well tell me first a last , because I 'll give you no peace until you do , '' insist Peter .
Jimmy grin .
`` If that 's the case , I guess I 'll have to , '' say he .
`` Wait until I find a comfortable place to sit down .
I never could tell a story stand up . ''
At last he find a place to suit him and after change his position two or three time to make sure that he be perfectly comfortable , he begin .
`` Once upon a time -- '' `` Never mind about that , '' interrupt Peter .
`` I do n't see why all story have to begin ` Once upon a time . '
It seem a if everything interesting happen long ago . ''
`` If you do n't watch out , this story wo n't begin at all , '' declare Jimmy .
Peter look properly ashamed for interrupting , and Jimmy start again .
`` Once upon a time old Mr. Crow , the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Blacky , over there , possess the most wonderful tongue of any of the little people who run , walk , crawl , or flew .
He could imitate any and everybody , and he do .
He could sing like Mr. Meadow Lark , or he could bark like Mr. Wolf .
He could whistle like Mr. Quail , or he could growl like old King Bear .
There be n't anybody whose voice he could n't imitate and do it so well that if you have be there and hear but not see him , you never would have guess that it be an imitation .
`` Now the imp of mischief be in old Mr. Crow , just a it be in Blacky to-day , and he be smart too .
There be n't anybody smarter than old Mr. Crow .
It 's from him that Blacky get his smartness .
It do n't take him long to discover that no one else have such a wonderful tongue .
It be even more wonderful than the tongue of old Mr. Mocker the Mocking Bird .
Mr. Mocker could imitate the song of other bird , but old Mr. Crow could imitate anybody , a I have say .
He puzzle over it a good deal himself for a while .
He could n't understand how he could make any sound he please , while his neighbor could make only a few special sound .
`` Being very smart and shrewd , just a Blacky be , he finally make up his mind that it must be in his tongue .
As soon a he think of that , he start out to find out , and on one excuse or another he manage to get all his neighbor to show him their tongue .
Sure enough , his own tongue be different from any of the others .
It be split a little , so that it be almost like two tongue in one . ''
` That 's it , ' he chuckle . '
I know it .
It 's this little old tongue of mine .
Nobody else have get one like it , but nobody know that but me .
I must make good use of it .
Yes , Sir , I must make good use of it . '
`` Now when old Mr. Crow say that , he do n't really mean good use at all .
That be , he do n't mean what you or I or any of his neighbor would have call good use .
What he do mean be the use that would bring to himself the great gain in pleasure , and be a great joker , he begin by have a lot of fun with his neighbor .
When he saw Mr. Rabbit , your grandfather a thousand time remove , come along , he would hide , and just a Mr. Rabbit be pass , he would snarl like Mr. Lynx .
Of course Mr. Rabbit would be scar almost to death , and away he would go , lipperty-lipperty-lip , and old Mr. Crow would laugh so that he have to hold his black side .
He would hide in the top of a tree near Mr. Squirrel 's home , and just when Mr. Squirrel have find a fat nut and start to eat it , he would scream like Mr. Hawk and then laugh to see Mr. Squirrel drop his nut and dive headfirst into the near hole .
He would squeak like a mouse when Mr. Fox be pass , just to see Mr. Fox hunt and hunt for the dinner he felt sure be close at hand .
`` But after a while Mr. Crow be n't satisfy with harmless joke .
Times be get hard , and everybody have to work to get enough to eat .
This do n't suit Mr. Crow at all , and one day when he chance to discover one of his neighbor just sit down to a good meal , a new idea come to him .
He steal as near a he could without be see and suddenly growl like old King Bear .
Of course that meal be leave in a hurry .
` It be too bad to see all that good food go to waste , ' say Mr. Crow and promptly eat it .
`` After that , instead of hunt for food himself , he just keep a sharp eye on his neighbor , and when they have find something he want , he frighten them away and help himself .
All the time he be so sly about it that never once be he suspect .
He be a great talker , be Mr. Crow , and spend a great deal of time gossiping , and he be always one of the first to offer sympathy to those who have lose a meal .
`` Now all this time , unknown to old Mr. Crow , Old Mother Nature know just what be go on , for you ca n't fool her , and it 's of no use to try .
One morning Mr. Crow discover Mr. Coon just sit down to a good breakfast .
He steal up behind Mr. Coon and open his mouth to bark like Mr. Coyote , but instead of a bark , there come forth a harsh ` Caw , caw , caw . '
It be a question which be the more surprised , Mr. Coon or Mr. Crow .
Mr. Coon do n't forget his manner .
He politely invite Mr. Crow to sit down and take breakfast with him .
But Mr. Crow have lose his appetite .
Somehow his tongue felt very queer .
He thank Mr. Coon and beg to be excuse .
Then he hurry over to the near pool of water in which he could see his reflection and stick out his tongue .
It be no long split into a double tongue .
Then old Mr. Crow guess that Old Mother Nature have find him out and punish him , but to make sure , he fly to the most lonesome place he know of , and there he try to imitate the voice of his neighbor ; but try a he would , all he could say be ` Caw , caw , caw . '
`` For a long , long time after that no one ever hear Mr. Crow say a word .
His neighbor do n't know what to make of it , for you remember he have be a great gossip .
They say that he must have lose his tongue .
Of course he have n't , but he felt that he might as well have .
And ever since then the Crow family have have the harsh of all voice . ''
`` Caw , caw , caw ! ''
shout Blacky from the top of the tree where he be sit .
`` I wonder , '' say Peter Rabbit thoughtfully , `` if he could imitate other people if his tongue should be split . ''
`` I 've hear say that he could , '' reply Jimmy Skunk , `` but I do n't know .
One thing be sure , and that be that he be just a smart and sly a his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather be , and I guess it be just as well that his tongue be just a it be . ''
V HOW HOWLER THE WOLF GOT HIS NAME V HOW HOWLER THE WOLF GOT HIS NAME Peter Rabbit never have see Howler the Wolf , but he have hear his voice in the distance , and the mere sound have give him cold shiver .
It just go all through him .
It be very different from the voice of Old Man Coyote .
The latter be bad enough , sound a it do like many voice , but there be not in it that terrible fierceness which the voice of his big cousin contains .
Peter have no desire to hear it any nearer .
The first time he meet his cousin , Jumper the Hare , he ask him about Howler , for Jumper have come down to the Green Forest from the Great Woods where Howler live and be fear .
`` Did you hear him ? ''
exclaim Jumper .
`` I hope he wo n't take it into his head to come down here .
I do n't believe he will , because it be too near the home of men .
If the sound of his voice way off there give you cold shiver , I 'm afraid you 'd shake all to piece if you hear him close by .
He 's just as fierce a his voice sound .
There be one thing about him that I like , though , and that be that he give fair warning when he be hunt .
He do n't come sneak about without a sound , like Tufty the Lynx .
He hunt like Bowser the Hound and let you know that he be out hunt .
Did you ever hear how he get his name ? ''
`` No .
How do he get his name ? ''
ask Peter eagerly .
`` Well , of course it 's a family name now and be hand down and have be for year and year , ever since the first Wolf begin hunt way back when the world be young , '' explain Jumper .
`` For a long time the first Wolf have no name .
Most of the other animal and bird have name , but nothing seem to just fit the big gray Wolf .
He look a great deal like his cousin , Mr. Dog , and still more like his other cousin , Mr. Coyote .
But he be strong than either , could run far and fast than either , and have quite as wonderful a nose a either .
`` With Mr. Wolf , a with all the other animal , life be an easy matter at first .
There be plenty to eat , and everybody be on good term with everybody else .
But there come a time , a you know , when food become scarce .
It be then that the big learn to hunt the small , and fear be bear into the world .
Mr. Wolf be swift of leg and keen of nose .
His teeth be long and sharp , and he be so strong that there be few he fear to fight with .
In fact , he do n't know fear at all , for he simply keep out of the way of those who be too big and strong for him to fight .
`` Most people like to do the thing they know they can do well .
Mr. Wolf early learn the joy of hunting .
I ca n't understand it myself .
Can you ? ''
Peter shake his head .
You see neither Jumper nor Peter ever have hunt any one in all their life .
It be always they who be hunt .
`` Perhaps it be because he be so strong of wind and leg that he enjoy run , and because he be so keen of nose that he enjoy follow a trail .
Anyway , he scorn to spend his time sneak about a do his cousin , Mr. Coyote , but choose to follow the swift runner and to match his nose and speed and skill against their speed and wit .
He do n't bother to hunt little people like u when there be big people like Mr . Deer .
The longer and harder the hunt , the more Mr. Wolf seem to enjoy it .
`` At first he hunt silently , run swiftly with his nose to the ground .
But this give the one he hunt very little chance ; he be upon them before they even suspect that he be on their trail .
It always make Mr. Wolf feel mean .
He never could hold his head and his tail up after that kind of a hunt .
He felt so like a sneak that he just have to put his tail between his leg for very shame .
There be nothing to be proud about in such a hunt .
`` One night he sit think about it .
Gentle Mistress Moon look down at him through the tree-tops , and something inside him urge him to tell her his trouble .
He point his sharp nose up at her , open his mouth and , because she be so far away , do his best to make her hear .
That be the very first Wolf howl ever heard .
There be something very lonely and shivery and terrible in the sound , and all who hear it shook with fear .
Mr. Wolf do n't know this , but he do know that he felt well for howl .
So every night he point his nose up at Mistress Moon and howl .
`` It happen that once a he do this , a Deer jumped at the first sound and rush away in great fright .
This give Mr. Wolf an idea .
The next day when he go hunt he throw up his head and howl at the very first smell of fresh track .
That day he have the long hunt he ever have know , for the Deer have have fair warning .
Mr. Wolf do n't get the Deer , because the latter swam across a lake and so get away , but he return home in high spirit in spite of an empty stomach .
You see , he felt that it have be a fair hunt .
After that he always give fair warning .
As he run , he howl for very joy .
No longer do he carry his bushy tail between his leg , for no longer do he feel like a coward and a sneak .
Instead , he carry it proudly .
Of all the animal who hunt , he be the only one who give fair warning , and he felt that he have a right to be proud .
All the others hunt by stealth .
He alone hunt openly and boldly .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Old King Bear , who be king no longer , would growl a deep , rumbly-grumbly growl . ''
Page 66 . -RSB-
`` Now this earn for him first the dislike and then the hatred of the other hunter .
You see , when he be hunt , he spoil the hunting of those who steal soft-footed through the Green Forest and catch their victim by surprise .
The little people hear his voice and either hide away or be on guard , so that it be hard work for the silent hunter to surprise them .
At the sound of his hunt cry , old King Bear , who be king no longer , would growl a deep , rumbly-grumbly growl , though he do n't mind so much a some , because he do very little hunting .
He would n't have do any if food have not be so scarce , because he would have be entirely satisfied with berry and root , if he could have find enough .
Mr. Lynx and Mr. Panther would snarl angrily .
Mr. Coyote and Mr. Fox would show their teeth and mutter about what they would do to Mr. Wolf if only they be big enough and strong enough and brave enough .
`` Of course , it be n't long before Mr. Wolf discover that he have no friend .
The little people fear him , and the big people hat him because he spoil their hunting .
But he do n't mind .
In fact , he look down on Mr. Lynx and Mr. Panther and Mr. Coyote and Mr. Fox , and when he meet them , he lift his tail a little more proudly than ever .
Sometimes he would howl out of pure mischief just to spoil the hunting of the others .
So , little by little , he begin to be speak of a Howler the Wolf , and after a while everybody call him Howler .
`` Of course , Howler teach his child how to hunt and that the only honorable and fair way be to give those they hunt fair warning .
So it grow to be a fixed habit of the Wolf family to give fair warn that they be abroad and then trust to their wind and wit and speed and nose to catch those they be after .
The result be that they grow strong , able to travel long distance , keen of nose , and sharp of wit .
Because the big people hat them , and the little people fear them , they live by themselves and so form the habit of hunt together for company .
`` It have be so ever since , and the name Howler have be hand down to this day .
No sound in all the Great Woods carry with it more fear than do the voice of Howler the Wolf , and no one hunt so openly , boldly , and honorably .
Be thankful , Peter , that Howler never come down to the Green Forest , but stay far from the home of men . ''
`` I be , '' reply Peter .
`` Just the same , I think he deserve a good name for the fair way in which he hunt , though his name certainly do fit him .
I would a lot rather be catch by some one who have give me fair warn than by some one who come sneak after me and give me no warning .
But I do n't want to be catch at all , so I think I 'll hurry back to the dear Old Briar-patch . ''
And Peter do .
VI HOW OLD MR. SQUIRREL BECAME THRIFTY VI HOW OLD MR. SQUIRREL BECAME THRIFTY Grandfather Frog sit on his big green lily-pad in the Smiling Pool and shake his head reprovingly at Peter Rabbit .
Peter be such a happy-go-lucky little fellow that he never think of anything but the good time he can have in the present .
He never look ahead to the future .
So of course Peter seldom worry .
If the sun shin to-day , Peter take it for grant that it will shine to-morrow ; so he hop and skip and have a good time and just trust to luck .
Now Grandfather Frog be very old and very wise , and he do n't believe in luck .
No , Sir , Grandfather Frog do n't believe in luck .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog , `` Luck never just happen .
What people call bad luck be just the result of their own foolishness or carelessness or both , and what people call good luck be just the result of their own wisdom and carefulness and common sense . ''
Peter Rabbit have be make fun of Happy Jack Squirrel because Happy Jack say that he have too much to do to stop and play that morning .
Here it be summer , and winter be a long way off .
What be summer for if not to play in and have a good time ?
Yet Happy Jack be already think of winter and be hunt for a new storehouse so a to have it ready when the time to fill it with nut should come .
It be much good to play and take sun-naps among the buttercup and daisy and just have a good time all day long .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog , `` Did you ever hear how old Mr. Squirrel learn thrift ? ''
`` No , '' cry Peter Rabbit , stretch himself out in the soft grass on the edge of the Smiling Pool .
`` Do tell u about it .
Please do , Grandfather Frog ! ''
You know Peter dearly love a story .
All the other little meadow and forest people who be about the Smiling Pool join Peter Rabbit in beg Grandfather Frog for the story , and after they have tease for it a long time -LRB- Grandfather Frog dearly love to be tease -RRB- , he clear his throat and begin .
`` Once upon a time when the world be young , in the day when old King Bear rule in the Green Forest , everybody have to take King Bear present of thing to eat .
That be because he be king .
You know king never have to work like other people to get enough to eat ; everybody bring them a little of their best , and so king have the best in the land without the trouble of work for it .
It be just this way with old King Bear .
That be before he grow so fat and lazy and selfish that Old Mother Nature declare that he should be king no longer .
`` Now in those day live old Mr. Squirrel , the grandfather a thousand time remove of Happy Jack Squirrel whom you all know .
Of course , he be n't old then .
He be young and frisky , just like Happy Jack , and he be a great favorite with old King Bear .
He be a saucy fellow , be Mr. Squirrel , and he use to spend most of his time play trick on the other meadow and forest people .
He even dare to play joke on old King Bear .
Sometimes old King Bear would lose his temper , and then Mr. Squirrel would whisk up in the top of a tall tree and keep out of sight until old King Bear have recover his good nature .
`` Those be happy day , very happy day indeed , and old King Bear be a very wise ruler .
There be plenty of everything to eat , and so nobody miss the little they bring to old King Bear .
Having so much brought to him , he grow very particular .
Yes , Sir , old King Bear grow very particular indeed .
Some begin to whisper behind his back that he be fussy .
He would pick out the very best of everything for himself and give the rest to his family and special friend or else just let it go to waste .
`` Now old King Bear be very fond of lively little Mr. Squirrel , and often he would give Mr. Squirrel some of the good thing for which he have no room in his own stomach .
Mr. Squirrel be smart .
He soon find out that the more he amuse old King Bear , the more of King Bear 's good thing he have .
It be a lot easy to get his living this way than to hunt for his food a he always have in the past .
Besides , it be a lot more fun .
So little Mr. Squirrel study how to please old King Bear , and he grow fat on the good thing which other people have earn .
`` One day old King Bear give little Mr. Squirrel six big , fat nut .
You see , old King Bear do n't care for nut himself , not the kind with the hard shell , anyway , so he really be n't as generous a he seem , which be the way with a great many people .
It be easy to give what you do n't want yourself .
Little Mr. Squirrel bow very low and thanked old King Bear in his best manner .
He really do n't want those nut , for his stomach be full at the time , but it would n't do to refuse a gift from the king .
So he take the nut and pretend to be delight with them . ''
` What shall I do with them ? '
say little Mr. Squirrel as soon a he be alone .
` It wo n't do for me to leave them where old King Bear will find them , for it might make him very angry . '
At last he remember a certain hollow tree .
` The very place ! '
cry little Mr. Squirrel .
` I 'll drop them in there , and no one will be any the wiser . '
`` No sooner think of than it be do , and little Mr. Squirrel frisk away in his usual happy-go-lucky fashion and forget all about the nut in the hollow tree .
It be n't very long after this that Old Mother Nature begin to hear complaint of old King Bear and his rule in the Green Forest .
He have grow fat and lazy , and all his relative have grow fat and lazy because , you see , none of them have to work for the thing they eat .
The little forest and meadow people be grow tire of feed the Bear family .
It be just at the beginning of winter when Old Mother Nature come to see for herself what the trouble be .
It do n't take her long to find out .
No , Sir , it do n't take her long .
You ca n't fool Old Mother Nature , and it 's of no use to try .
She take one good look at old King Bear nodding in the cave where he use to sleep .
He be so fat he look a if he would burst his skin .
`` Old Mother Nature frown .
` You be such a lazy fellow that you shall be king no longer .
Instead , you shall sleep all winter and grow thin and thinner till you awake in the spring , and then you will have to hunt for your own food , for never again shall you live on the gift of others , ' say she .
`` All the little forest and meadow people who have be bring tribute , that be thing to eat , to old King Bear rejoice that they need do so no long and go about their business .
All of old King Bear 's family , include his cousin Mr. Coon , have be put to sleep just like old King Bear himself .
Yes , Sir , they be all asleep , fast asleep .
`` Little Mr. Squirrel felt lonesome .
He grow more lonesome every day .
None of the other little people would have anything to do with him because they remember how he have live without work when he be the favorite of King Bear .
The weather be cold , and it be hard work to find anything to eat .
Mr. Squirrel be hungry all the time .
He could n't think of anything but his stomach and how empty it be .
He grow thin and thinner .
`` One cold day when the snow cover the earth , little Mr. Squirrel go without breakfast .
Then he go without dinner .
You see , he could n't find so much a a pine-seed to eat .
Late in the afternoon he creep into a hollow tree to get away from the cold , bitter wind .
He be very tired and very cold and very , very hungry .
Tears fill his eye and run over and drip from his nose .
He curl up on the leaf at the bottom of the hollow to try to go to sleep and forget .
Under him be something hard .
He twist and turn , but he could n't get in a comfortable position .
Finally he look to see what the trouble be cause by .
What do you think he find ?
Six big , fat nut !
Yes , Sir , six big , fat nut !
Little Mr. Squirrel be so glad that he cry for very joy .
`` When he have eat two , he felt well and decide to keep the others for the next day .
Then he begin to wonder how those nut happen to be in that hollow tree .
He think and think , and at last he remember how he have hide six nut in this very hollow a long time before , when he have have more than he know what to do with .
These be the very nuts , the present of old King Bear .
`` Right then a he think about it , little Mr. Squirrel have a bright idea .
He make up his mind that thereafter he would stop his happy-go-lucky idleness , and the first time that ever he find plenty of food , he would fill that hollow tree just as full a he could pack it , and then if there should come a time when food be scarce , he would have plenty .
And that be just what he do do .
The next fall when nut be plentiful , he work from morning till night store them away in the hollow tree , and all that winter he be happy and fat , for he have plenty to eat .
He never have to beg of any one .
He have learn to save .
`` And ever since then the Squirrels have be among the wise of all the little forest people and always the busy .
`` The Squirrel family long since learn That thing be best when duly earn ; That play and fun be find in work By him who do not try to shirk .
`` And that 's all , '' finish Grandfather Frog .
`` Thank you !
Thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
cry Peter Rabbit .
VII HOW LIGHTFOOT THE DEER LEARNED TO JUMP VII HOW LIGHTFOOT THE DEER LEARNED TO JUMP It be n't often that Peter Rabbit be fill with envy .
As a rule , Peter be very free from anything like envy .
Usually he be quite content with the gift bestow upon him by Old Mother Nature , and if others have more than he have , he be glad for them and waste no time fretting because he have not be so fortunate .
But once in a great while Peter become really and truly envious .
It be that way the first time he saw Lightfoot the Deer leap over a fall tree , and ever after , when he saw Lightfoot , a little of that same feeling stir in his heart .
You see , Peter always have be very proud of his own power of jumping .
To be sure Jumper the Hare could jump high and far than he could , but Jumper be his own cousin , so it be all in the family , so to speak , and Peter do n't mind .
But to see Lightfoot the Deer go sail over the top of the bush and over the fallen tree a if he have spring in his leg be quite another matter .
`` I wish I could jump like that , '' say Peter right out loud one day , a he stand with his hand on his hip watch Lightfoot leap over a pile of brush .
`` Why do n't you learn to ? ''
ask Jimmy Skunk with a mischievous twinkle in the eye which Peter could n't see .
`` Lightfoot could n't always jump like that ; he have to learn .
Why do n't you find out how ?
Probably Grandfather Frog know all about it .
He know about almost everything .
If I be you , I 'd ask him . ''
`` I -- I -- I do n't just like to , '' reply Peter .
`` I 've ask him so many question that I be afraid he 'll think me a nuisance .
I tell you what , Jimmy , you ask him ! ''
Peter 's eye brighten a he say this .
Jimmy chuckle .
`` No , you do n't ! ''
say he .
`` If there be anything you want to know from Grandfather Frog , ask him yourself .
I do n't want to know how Lightfoot learn to jump .
He may jump over the moon , for all I care .
Have you see any fat beetle this morning , Peter ? ''
`` No , '' reply Peter shortly .
`` I 'm not interested in beetle .
There may never be any fat beetle , for all I care . ''
Jimmy laugh .
It be a good-natured , chuckle kind of a laugh .
`` Do n't get huffy , Peter , '' say he .
`` Here 's hop that you learn how to jump like Lightfoot the Deer , and that I get a stomachful of fat beetle . ''
With that Jimmy Skunk slowly amble along down the Crooked Little Path .
Peter watch him out of sight , sigh , start for the dear Old Briar-patch , stop , sigh again , and then head straight for the Smiling Pool .
Grandfather Frog be there on his big green lily-pad , and Peter waste no time .
`` How do Lightfoot the Deer learn to jump so splendidly , Grandfather Frog ? ''
he blurt out almost before he have stop run .
Grandfather Frog blink his great , goggly eye .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say he .
`` If you 'll jump across the Laughing Brook over there where it come into the Smiling Pool , I 'll tell you . ''
Peter look at the Laughing Brook in dismay .
It be quite wide at that point .
`` I -- I ca n't , '' he stammer .
`` Then I ca n't tell you how Lightfoot learn to jump , '' reply Grandfather Frog , quite a if the matter be settle .
`` I -- I 'll try ! ''
Peter hasten to blurt out .
`` All right .
While you be try , I 'll see if I can remember the story , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
Peter go back a little so a to get a good start .
Then he run as hard a he know how , and when he reach the bank of the Laughing Brook , he jump with all his might .
It be a good jump -- a splendid jump -- but it be n't quite enough of a jump , and Peter land with a great splash in the water !
Grandfather Frog open his great mouth as wide a he could , which be very wide indeed , and laugh until the tear roll down from his great , goggly eye .
Jerry Muskrat and Billy Mink roll over and over on the bank , laugh until their side ache .
Even Spotty the Turtle smile , which be very unusual for Spotty .
Now Peter do not like the water , and though he can swim , he do n't feel at all at home in it .
He paddle for the shore as fast a he could , and in his heart be something very like anger .
No one like to be laugh at .
Peter intend to start for home the very minute he reach the shore .
But just before his foot touch bottom , he hear the great , deep voice of Grandfather Frog .
`` That be just the way Lightfoot the Deer learn to jump -- try to do what he could n't do and keep at it until he could .
It all happen a great while ago when the world be young . ''
Grandfather Frog be talk quite a if nothing have happen , and he have never think of laugh .
Peter be so put out that he want to keep right on , but he just could n't miss that story .
His curiosity would n't let him .
So he shake himself and then lay down in the sunny spot he could find within hearing .
`` Lightfoot 's great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather be name Lightfoot too , and be not a whit less handsome than Lightfoot be now , '' continue Grandfather Frog in his best story-telling voice .
`` He have just such slim leg a Lightfoot have now and just such wonderful , branch horn .
When he have the latter , he be not much afraid of anybody .
Those enemy swift enough of foot to catch him he could successfully fight with his horn , and those too big and strong for him to fight be not swift enough to catch him .
But there be a season in every year when he have no horn , a be the case with Lightfoot .
You know , or ought to know , that every spring Lightfoot lose his horn and through the summer a new pair grows .
It be so with Mr . Deer of that long-ago time , and when he lose those great horn , he felt very helpless and timid .
`` Now old Mr . Deer love the open meadow and spend most of his time there .
When he have to run , he want nothing in the way of his slim leg .
And how he could run !
My , my , my , how he could run !
But there be others who could run swiftly in those day too , -- Mr. Wolf and Mr. Dog .
Mr . Deer always have a feeling that some day one or the other would catch him .
When he have his horn , this thought do n't worry him much , but when he have lose his horn , it worry him a great deal .
He felt perfectly helpless then .
` The thing for me to do be to keep out of sight , ' say he to himself , and so instead of go out on the meadow and in the open place , he hide among the bush and in the brush on the edge of the Green Forest and behind the fall tree in the Green Forest .
`` But one thing trouble old Mr . Deer , who be n't old then , you know .
Yes , Sir , one thing trouble him a great deal .
He could n't run fast at all among the bush and the fall tree and the old log .
This be a new worry , and it trouble him almost as much a the old worry .
He felt that he be in a dreadful fix .
You see , hard time have come , and the big and strong be prey on the weak and small in order to live . ''
` If I stay out on the meadow , I can not fight if I be catch ; and if I stay here , I can not run fast if I be find by my enemy .
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
What shall I do ? '
cry Mr . Deer , a he lay hide among the branch of a fall hemlock-tree .
`` Just at that very minute along come Mr. Hare , the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of your cousin Jumper .
A big log be in his path , and he jump over it as lightly a a feather .
Mr . Deer watch him and sigh .
If only he could jump like that in proportion to his size , he would just jump over the bush and the fall log and the fall tree instead of try to run around them or squeeze between them .
Right then he have an idea .
Why should n't he learn to jump ?
He could try , anyway .
So when he be sure that no one be around to see him , he practise jump over little low bush .
At first he could n't do much , but he keep try and try , and little by little he jump high .
It be hard work , and he scrap his slim legs many time when he try to jump over old log and stump .
`` Now all this time some one have be watch him , though he do n't know it .
It be Old Mother Nature .
One day she stop him a he be trot along a path .
` What be this you be do when you think no one be watch ? '
she demand , look very cross .
` Have n't I give you beauty and speed ?
And yet you be not satisfied ! '
Mr . Deer hang his head .
Then suddenly he throw it up proudly and tell Old Mother Nature that he have not complain , but that through his own effort he be just try to add to the blessing which he do have , and he explain why he want to learn to jump .
Old Mother Nature hear him through .
` Let me see you jump over that bush , ' she snap crossly , point to a bush almost as high a Mr . Deer himself . ''
` Oh , I ca n't jump nearly as high a that ! '
he cry .
Then toss his head proudly , he add , ` But I 'll try . '
So just a Peter Rabbit try to jump the Laughing Brook when he felt sure that he could n't , Mr . Deer try to jump the bush .
Just imagine how surprised he be when he sail over it without even touch the top of it with his hoof !
Old Mother Nature have give him the gift of jumping a a reward for his perseverance and because she saw that he really have need of it .
`` So ever since that long-ago day , the Deer have live where the brush be thick and the Green Forest most tangle , because they be such great jumper that they can travel faster there than their enemy , and they be no longer so swift of foot in the open meadow .
Now , Peter , let 's see you jump over the Laughing Brook . ''
What do you think Peter do ?
Why , he try again , and laugh just as hard a the others when once more he land in the water with a great splash .
VIII HOW MR . FLYING SQUIRREL ALMOST GOT WINGS VIII HOW MR . FLYING SQUIRREL ALMOST GOT WINGS Jimmy Skunk and Peter Rabbit be have a dispute .
It be a good-natured dispute , but both Jimmy and Peter be very decide in their opinion , and neither would give in to the other .
Finally they decide that a neither could convince the other , they should leave it for Grandfather Frog to decide which be right .
So they straightway start for the Smiling Pool , where on his big green lily-pad Grandfather Frog be enjoy the twilight and lead the great Frog chorus .
Both agree that they would accept Grandfather Frog 's decision .
You see , each be sure that he be right .
When they reach the Smiling Pool , they find Grandfather Frog look very comfortable and old and wise .
`` Good evening , Grandfather Frog .
I hope you be feel just as fine a you look , '' say Jimmy Skunk , who never forget to be polite .
`` Chug-a-rum !
I 'm feel very well , thank you , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` What bring you to the Smiling Pool this fine evening ? ''
He look very hard at Peter Rabbit , for he suspect that Peter have come for a story .
`` To get the wise person of whom we know to decide a matter on which Peter and I can not agree ; and who be there so wise a Grandfather Frog ? ''
replied Jimmy .
Grandfather Frog look immensely pleased .
It always please him to be consider wise .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say he gruffly .
`` You have a very smooth tongue , Jimmy Skunk .
But what be this matter on which you can not agree ? ''
`` How many animal can fly ? ''
return Jimmy , by way of answer .
`` One , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` I think everybody know that .
Flitter the Bat be the only animal who can fly . ''
`` You forget Timmy , the Flying Squirrel ! ''
cry Peter excitedly .
`` That make two . ''
Grandfather Frog shake his head .
`` Peter , Peter , whatever be the matter with those eye of yours ? ''
he exclaim .
`` They certainly be big enough .
I wonder if you ever will learn to use them .
Half-seeing be sometimes bad than not see at all .
Timmy can not fly any more than I can . ''
`` What do I tell you ? ''
cry Jimmy Skunk triumphantly .
`` But I 've see him fly lot of time ! ''
persist Peter .
`` I guess that any one who have envy him as often a I have ought to know . ''
`` Hump ! ''
grunt Grandfather Frog .
`` I guess that 's the trouble .
There be so much envy that it get into your eye , and you could n't see straight .
Envy be a bad thing . ''
Jimmy Skunk chuckle .
`` Did you ever see him away from tree ? ''
continued Grandfather Frog .
`` No , '' confess Peter .
`` Did you ever see him cut circle in the air like Flitter the Bat ? ''
`` No-o , '' reply Peter slowly .
`` Of course not , '' retort Grandfather Frog .
`` The reason be because he do n't fly .
He have n't any wing .
What he do do be to coast on the air .
He 's the great jumper and coaster in the Green Forest . ''
`` Coast on the air ! ''
exclaim Peter .
`` I never heard of such a thing . ''
`` There be many thing you never have hear of , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` Sit down , Peter , and stop fidgeting , and I 'll tell you a story . ''
The very word story be enough to make Peter forget everything else , and he promptly sit down with his big eye fix on Grandfather Frog .
`` It happen , '' begin Grandfather Frog , `` that way back in the beginning of thing , there live a very timid member of the Squirrel family , own cousin to Mr. Red Squirrel and Mr. Gray Squirrel , but not at all like them , for he be very gentle and very shy .
Perhaps this be partly because he be very small and be not big enough or strong enough to fight his way a the others do .
In fact , this little Mr. Squirrel be so timid that he prefer to stay out of sight during the day , when so many be abroad .
He felt safer in the dusk of evening , and so he use to wait until jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have go to bed behind the Purple Hills before he venture out to hunt for his food .
Then his quarrelsome cousin have go to bed , and there be no one to drive him away when he find a feast of good thing .
`` But even at night there be plenty of danger .
There be Mr. Owl to be watch out for , and other night prowler .
In fact , little Mr. Squirrel do n't feel safe on the ground a minute , and so he keep to the tree as much a possible .
Of course , when the branch of one tree reach to the branch of another tree , it be an easy matter to travel through the tree-tops , but every once in a while there would be open place to cross , and many a fright do timid little Mr. Squirrel have a he scamper across these open place .
He use to sit and watch old Mr . Bat fly about and wish that he have wing .
Then he think how foolish it be to wish for something he have n't get and could n't have . ''
` The thing to do , ' say little Mr. Squirrel to himself , ` be to make the most of what I have get .
Now I be a pretty good jumper , but if I keep jump , perhaps I can learn to jump good than I do now . '
`` So every night Mr. Squirrel use to go off by himself , where he be sure no one would see him , and practise jumping .
He would climb an old stump and then jump as far a he could .
Then he would do it all over again ever so many time , and after a little he find that he go far , quite a little farther , than when he begin .
Then one night he make a discovery .
He find that by spread his arm and legs out just as far a possible and make himself as flat a he could , he could go almost twice as far a he have be able to go before , and he land a great deal easy .
It be like slide down on the air .
It be great fun , and pretty soon he be spend all his spare time do it .
`` One moonlight night , Old Mother Nature happen along and sit down on a log to watch him .
Little Mr. Squirrel do n't see her , and when at last she ask him what he be do , he be so surprised and confuse that he could hardly find his tongue .
At last he tell her that he be try to learn to jump well that he might better take care of himself .
The idea please Old Mother Nature .
You know she be always please when she find people try to help themselves . ''
` That 's a splendid idea , ' say she .
` I 'll help you .
I 'll make you the great jumper in the Green Forest . '
`` Then she give to little Mr. Squirrel something almost but not quite like wing .
Between his fore leg and hind leg on each side she stretch a piece of skin that fold right down against his body when he be walk or run so a to hardly show and be n't in the way at all . ''
` Now , ' say she , ` climb that tall tree over yonder clear to the top and then jump with all your might for that tree over there across that open place . '
`` It be ten time as far a little Mr. Squirrel ever have jump before , and the tree be so tall that he felt sure that he would break his neck when he strike the ground .
He be afraid , very much afraid .
But Old Mother Nature have tell him to do it .
He know that he ought to trust her .
So he climb the tall tree .
It be a frightful distance down to the ground , and that other tree be so far away that it be foolish to even think of reach it . ''
` Jump ! '
command Old Mother Nature .
`` Little Mr. Squirrel gulp very hard , try to swallow his fear .
Then he jump with all his might , and just a he have teach himself to do , spread himself out as flat a he could .
Just imagine how surprised he be and how tickled when he just coast down on the air clear across the open place and land as lightly a a feather on the foot of that distant tree !
You see , the skin between his leg when he spread them out have keep him from fall straight down .
Of course if he have n't jump with all his might , a Old Mother Nature have tell him to , even though he think it would n't be of any use , he would n't have reach that other tree .
`` He be so delighted that he want to do it right over again , but he do n't forget his manner .
He first thank Old Mother Nature .
`` She smile .
` See that you keep out of danger , for that be why I have make you the great jumper in the Green Forest , ' say she .
`` Little Mr. Squirrel do .
People who , like Peter , do not use their eye , think that he could fly , and he be call the Flying Squirrel .
He be the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Timmy whom you both know . ''
`` And Timmy do n't really fly at all , do he ? ''
ask Jimmy Skunk .
`` Certainly not .
He jump and slide on the air , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` What do I tell you ? ''
cry Jimmy triumphantly to Peter .
`` Well , anyway , it 's next thing to fly .
I wish I could do it , '' reply Peter .
IX HOW MR. WEASEL WAS MADE AN OUTCAST IX HOW MR. WEASEL WAS MADE AN OUTCAST Chatterer the Red Squirrel peer down from the edge of an old nest build long ago in a big hemlock-tree in the Green Forest , and if you could have look into Chatterer 's eye , you would have see there a great fear .
He look this way ; he look that way .
Little by little , the fear leave him , and when at last he saw Peter Rabbit come his way , he give a little sigh of relief and run down the tree .
Peter saw him and head straight toward him to pass the time of day .
`` Peter , '' whisper Chatterer , as soon a Peter be near enough to hear , `` have you see Shadow the Weasel ? ''
It be Peter 's turn to look frightened , and he hastily glance this way and that way .
`` No , '' he reply .
`` Is he anywhere about here ? ''
`` I saw him pass about five minute ago , but he seem to be in a hurry , and I guess he have go now , '' return Chatterer , still whisper .
`` I hope so !
My goodness , I hope so ! ''
exclaim Peter , still look this way and that way uneasily .
`` I hate him ! ''
declare Chatterer fiercely .
`` So do I , '' reply Peter .
`` I guess everybody do .
It must be dreadful to be hat by everybody .
I do n't believe he have get a single friend in the wide , wide world , not even among his own relative .
I wonder why it be he never try to make any friend . ''
`` Here come Jimmy Skunk .
Let 's ask him .
He ought to know , for he be Shadow 's cousin , '' say Chatterer .
Jimmy come amble up in his usual lazy way , for you know he never hurry .
It seem to Chatterer and Peter that he be slow than usual .
But he get there at last .
`` Why be it , Jimmy Skunk , that your cousin , Shadow the Weasel , never try to make any friend ? ''
cried Chatterer , as soon a Jimmy be near enough .
`` I 've never ask him , but I suppose it 's because he do n't want them , '' reply Jimmy .
`` But why ? ''
ask Peter .
`` I guess it 's because he be an outcast , '' reply Jimmy .
`` What be an outcast , '' demand Peter .
`` Why , somebody with whom nobody else will have anything to do , stupid , '' reply Jimmy .
`` I think everybody know that . ''
`` But how do it happen that he become an outcast in the first place ? ''
persist Peter .
`` He 's always be an outcast , ever since he be bear , and I suppose he be use to it , '' declare Jimmy .
`` His father be an outcast , and his grandfather , and his great-grandfathers way back to the day when the world be young . ''
`` Tell u about it .
Do tell u about it ! ''
beg Peter .
Jimmy smile good-naturedly .
`` Well , see that I have n't anything else to do just now , I will .
Perhaps you fellows may learn something from the story , '' say he .
Then he settle himself comfortably with his back to an old stump and begin .
-LSB- Illustration : `` One day Mr. Rabbit surprise Mr. Weasel make a meal of young mouse . ''
Page 124 . -RSB-
`` When old King Bear rule in the forest long , long ago , and the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfathers of all of u and of everybody else live in peace and happiness with each other , slim , trim , spry Mr. Weasel live with the rest .
He be small , just a Shadow be now , and he look just the same a Shadow do now .
He be on the best of term with all his neighbor , and no one have a word to say against him .
In fact , he be rather liked and have quite a many friend a anybody .
But all the time he have a mean disposition .
He hide it from his neighbor , but he have it just the same .
Now mean disposition be easily hide when everything be pleasant and there be no worry , and that be the way it be then .
No one suspect any one else of meanness , for with plenty to eat and nothing to worry about , there be no cause for meanness .
`` With his mean disposition , Mr. Weasel be also very crafty .
Being small and move so swiftly , he be hard to keep track of .
You know how it be with Shadow -- now you see him , and now you do n't . ''
Chatterer and Peter nod .
They know that it be because of this that he be call Shadow .
`` Well , '' continue Jimmy , `` it do n't take him long to find that if he be careful , he could go where he please , and no one would be the wiser .
They say that he use to practise dodge out of sight when he saw any one coming , and after a while he get so that he could disappear right under the very nose of his neighbor .
Being so slim , he could go where any of his four-footed neighbor could , and it be n't long before he know all about every hole and nook and corner anywhere around .
There be no secret that he do n't find out , and all the time no one suspect him .
`` Of course hard time come to Mr. Weasel at last , just a to everybody else , but they do n't worry him much .
You see , he know all about the secret hiding-places in which some of his neighbor have store away food , so when he be hungry , all he have to do be to help himself .
So Mr. Weasel become a thief , and still no one suspect him .
Now one bad habit almost always lead to another .
Mr. Weasel develop a great fondness for egg .
Our whole family have always have rather a weakness that way . ''
Jimmy grin , for he know that Peter and Chatterer know that he himself never could pass a fresh egg when he find it .
`` One day he find a nest in which be four little baby bird instead of the egg he have be expect to find there and , have a mean disposition , he fly into a rage and kill those four little bird .
Yes , Sir , that 's what he do .
He find the taste of young bird very much to his liking , and he begin to hunt for more .
Then he discover a nest of young mouse , and he find these quite as good a young bird .
Then come a great fear upon the little people , but not once do they suspect Mr. Weasel .
He be very crafty and go and come among them just a always .
They suspect only the large and strong people of the forest who , because food be get very scarce , have begin to hunt the small people .
`` But you know wrongdoing be bind to be find out sooner or later .
One day Mr. Rabbit surprise Mr. Weasel make a meal of young mouse , and of course he hurry to tell all his neighbor .
Then Mr. Weasel know that it be no long of use to pretend that he be what he be not , and he boldly join the big animal in hunt the small one .
It make most people angry to be catch in wrongdoing and it be just that way with Mr. Weasel .
He fly into a great rage and vow that he would kill Mr. Rabbit , and when he could n't catch Mr. Rabbit , he hunt others of his neighbor until there be no one , not even fierce Mr. Wolf or Mr. Panther or Mr. Lynx , of whom the little people be in such fear .
You see , they could hide from the big hunter , but they could n't hide from Mr. Weasel because he know all their hiding-places , and he be so slim and small that wherever they could go , he could go .
`` Now the big people , like Mr. Wolf and Mr. Panther , kill only for food that they might live , and when they find Mr. Weasel kill more than he could eat , they would have nothing to do with him and even threaten to kill him if they catch him .
So pretty soon Mr. Weasel find that he have n't a friend in the world .
This make him more savage than ever , and he hunt and kill just for the pleasure of it .
He take pleasure in the fear which he read in the eye of his neighbor when they saw him .
`` Old Mother Nature be terribly shock when she discover what be go on , but she find that she could do nothing with Mr. Weasel .
He be n't sorry for what he have do and he would n't promise to do good .
` Very well , ' say Old Mother Nature , ` from this time on you and your child and your child 's child forever and ever shall be outcast among the people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , hat by all , little and big . '
And it have be so to this day .
Even I be not on speak term with Shadow , although he be my own cousin , '' conclude Jimmy Skunk .
Peter Rabbit shudder .
`` Is n't it dreadful not to have a single friend ? ''
he exclaim .
`` I would rather have to run for my life twenty time a day than to be hat and fear and without a single friend .
I would n't be an outcast for all the world . ''
`` There 's not the least bit of danger of that for you , Peter , '' laugh Jimmy Skunk .
X HOW THE EYES OF OLD MR. OWL BECAME FIXED X HOW THE EYES OF OLD MR. OWL BECAME FIXED Blacky the Crow have discover Hooty the Owl doze the bright day away in a thick hemlock-tree .
Blacky know that the bright light hurt Hooty 's big eye and half blind him .
This meant that he could have no end of fun tease Hooty , and that Hooty would have to sit still and take it all , because he could n't see well enough to fly away or to try to catch Blacky .
Now if the day have be dark , a it sometimes be on cloudy day , or if the dusk of evening have be settle over the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , matter would have be very different .
Blacky would have take care , the very great care , not to let Hooty know that he be anywhere around .
But a it be , here be a splendid chance to spoil Hooty 's sleep and to see him grow very , very angry and do it without run any great risk .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
yell Blacky at the top of his voice , and at once all his relative come flock over to join in the fun .
Dear me , dear me , such a racket a there be then !
They fly over his head , and they settle in the tree all around him , all yell as hard a ever they could .
Everybody within hear know what it mean , and everybody who dare to hurry over to watch the fun .
Somehow most people seem to take pleasure in see some one else make uncomfortable , especially if it be some one of whom they stand in fear and who be for the time be helpless .
Most of the little meadow and forest people be very much afraid of Hooty the Owl as soon a it begin to grow dark , for that be when he can see best and do all his hunting .
So , though it be n't at all nice of them , they enjoy see him torment by Blacky and his relative .
But all the time they take the great care to keep out of sight themselves .
Peter Rabbit be there .
So be Jumper the Hare and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel and Chatterer the Red Squirrel and Whitefoot the Wood Mouse and Striped Chipmunk and a lot more .
Of course , Sammy Jay be there , but Sammy do n't try to keep out of sight .
Oh , my , no !
He join right in with the Crows , call Hooty all sort of bad name and fly about just out of reach in the most impudent way .
You see he know just how helpless Hooty be .
Hooty be very , very angry .
He hiss , and he snap his bill , and he tell his tormentor what he would do to them if he catch them after dark .
And all the time he keep turn his head with it great , round , glaring , yellow eye so a not to give his tormentor a chance to pull out any of his feather , a the boldest of them try to do .
Now Hooty can turn his head a no one else can .
He can turn it so that he look straight back over his tail , so that his head look a if it be put on the wrong way .
Then he can snap it around in the other direction so quickly that you can hardly see him do it , and sometimes it seem a if he turn his head clear around .
That interested Peter Rabbit immensely .
He could n't think of anything else .
He keep try to do the same thing himself , but of course he could n't .
He could turn his head sideways , but that be all .
He puzzle over it all the rest of the day , and that night , when his cousin , Jumper the Hare , call at the dear Old Briar-patch , the first thing he do be to ask a question .
`` Cousin Jumper , do you know why it be that Hooty the Owl can turn his head way around , and nobody else can ? ''
`` Of course I know , '' reply Jumper .
`` I think everybody know that .
It 's because his eye be fix in their socket , and he ca n't turn them .
So he turn his whole head in order to see in all direction .
The rest of u can roll our eye , but Hooty ca n't . ''
Peter scratch his long left ear with his long right hindfoot , a way he have when he be think or be puzzle .
`` That 's funny , '' say he .
`` I wonder why his eye be fix . ''
`` Because his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather roll his eye too much , '' reply Jumper , yawning .
`` He saw too much .
It 's a bad thing to see too much . ''
`` Tell me about it .
Please do , Cousin Jumper , '' beg Peter .
Jumper look up at the moon to see what time of night it be .
`` All right , '' say he , settle himself comfortably .
`` All the Owl family , way back to the very beginning , have have very big eye .
Old Mr. Owl have them .
He could move them just a we can ours .
And because they be so big , and because he could roll them , there be very little go on that Mr. Owl do n't see .
It happen one day that Old Mother Nature take it into her wise old head to put the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest to a test .
She want to see just how many of them she could trust to obey her order .
So she line them all up in a row .
Then she make them turn so that their back be to her . ''
` Now , ' say she , ` everybody be to keep eye to the front .
I be go to be very busy back here for a few minute , but not one of you be to peek .
I shall know if you do , and I shall see to it that you never forget it as long a you live . '
`` That sound a if something dreadful might happen , so everybody sit perfectly still look straight before them .
Some of them felt a if they would die of curiosity to know what Old Mother Nature be do , but for a while no one thought of disobey .
Old Mr. Rabbit just itch all over with curiosity .
It seem to him that he just must turn his head .
But for once he manage to get the best of his curiosity and star straight ahead .
`` Now Mr. Owl have tremendous great ear , just a Hooty have to-day .
You ca n't see them because the feather cover them , but they be there just the same . ''
Peter nod .
He know all about those wonderful ear and how they hear the teeny , weeny noise when Hooty be fly at night .
`` Those , big ear , '' continue Jumper , `` heard every little sound that Old Mother Nature make , and they sound queer to Mr. Owl .
` If I roll back my eye without turn my head , I believe I can see what she be do , and she wo n't be any the wiser , ' think he .
So he roll his eye back and then look straight ahead again .
What he have see make him want to see more .
He try it again .
Just imagine how he felt when he find that his eye would n't roll .
He could n't move them a bit .
All he could do be to stare straight ahead .
It frighten him dreadfully , and he keep try and try to roll his eye , but they be fix fast .
He could see in only one direction , the way his head be turn .
`` When at last Old Mother Nature tell all the little people that they might look , Mr. Owl do n't want to look .
He do n't want to face Old Mother Nature , for he know perfectly well what have happen to his eye .
He know that Old Mother Nature have see him roll them back , and that a a punishment she have fix them so that he would always stare straight ahead .
He do n't say anything .
He be too ashamed to .
He fly away home the very first chance he get .
For a long time after that , Mr. Owl never could see behind him at all .
He could only turn his head part way , the same a most folk , and he could n't roll his eye to see the rest of the way .
It make him dreadfully nervous and unhappy .
He felt all the time a if people be do thing behind his back .
But he do n't complain .
He be ashamed to do that .
`` Old Mother Nature be watch him all the time .
After a long , long while , she decide that he have be punish enough .
But she do n't want him to forget , so she keep his eye fix so that they would look straight ahead ; but she give him the power to turn his head far than any one else , so that he could look straight behind him without turn his body at all .
And ever since that time , all Owls have have fix eye , but have be able to turn their head so a to make them look a if they be face the wrong way . ''
`` Thank you , Cousin Jumper , '' cry Peter .
`` But there be one thing you forget to tell .
What be it that Old Mother Nature be do when Mr. Owl roll his eye to look back . ''
`` That , '' reply Jumper , `` Mr. Owl never tell , and nobody else know , so I ca n't tell you . ''
XI HOW IT HAPPENS JOHNNY CHUCK SLEEPS ALL WINTER XI HOW IT HAPPENS JOHNNY CHUCK SLEEPS ALL WINTER Peter Rabbit be bother .
He be bother in his mind , and when Peter be bother in his mind , he lose his appetite .
It be so now .
He have be up in the Old Orchard and , a be his way , have stop at Johnny Chuck 's for a bit of gossip .
As he sit there talk , it suddenly come over him that Johnny be look unusually fat .
He say so .
Johnny yawn in a very sleepy way a he reply : `` One have to get fat in order to sleep comfortably all winter .
I 've get to get fat than I be now before I turn in . ''
And with that , Johnny Chuck fell to eat a if his side be fall in instead of threaten to burst , and Peter could get no more from him .
So he go home to think it over , and the more he think , the more troubled he become .
How could anybody sleep all winter ?
And what good do just get fat do ?
Johnny Chuck could n't eat his own fat , so what be the use of it ?
`` Must be it 's to keep him warm , '' think Peter and brighten up .
But why be n't a good thick coat of fur just as good or even good ?
He do n't have any trouble keep warm .
Neither do Billy Mink or Little Joe Otter or Reddy Fox .
No , it could n't be that Johnny Chuck put on all that fat just to keep warm .
Besides , he would spend the winter way down deep in the ground , and there be no excuse for be cold there .
`` I could n't sleep all winter if I want to , and I would n't if I could , for there be too much fun to miss , '' mutter Peter , a he start for the Smiling Pool in search of Grandfather Frog .
He find him sit on his big lily-pad , but somehow Grandfather Frog do n't look a chipper and smart a usual .
`` He certainly be grow old , '' think Peter .
`` He be n't as spry a he use to be .
Seems a if he have grow old in the last two or three week .
Too bad , too bad . ''
Aloud , Peter say : `` Why , Grandfather Frog , how well you be look !
You be enough to make u young fellows envious . ''
Grandfather Frog look at Peter sharply .
Perhaps he read the truth in Peter 's eye .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say he .
`` Be honest , Peter .
Be honest .
Do n't try to flatter , because it be a bad habit to get into .
I know how I look .
I look old and tired .
Now be n't that so ? ''
Peter look a little shamefaced .
He do n't know just what to say , so he say nothing and just nod his head .
`` That 's good , '' say Grandfather Frog gruffly .
`` Always tell the truth .
The fact be I be tire .
I be so tired that I 'm go to sleep for the winter , and I 'm go to do it this very day . ''
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , '' -LRB- Peter have find his tongue -RRB- , `` please tell me something before you go .
I can understand how you may want to sleep all winter because you have no nice fur coat to keep you warm , but why do Johnny Chuck do it , and how do he do it ?
Why do n't he starve to death ? ''
Grandfather Frog have to smile at the eager curiosity in Peter 's voice .
`` I see you be just a full of question a ever , Peter , '' say he .
`` I suppose I may as well tell you one more story , because it will be a long time before you will get another from me .
Johnny Chuck sleep all winter because he be sensible , and he be sensible because it run in the family to be sensible .
His great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather be sensible .
It 's a very good thing to have good sound common sense run in the family , Peter . ''
Once more Peter nod his head .
Jerry Muskrat , who be sit on the Big Rock , listening , wink at Peter , and Peter wink back .
Then he make himself comfortable and prepare not to miss a word of Grandfather Frog 's story .
`` You must know , Peter , that a long time ago when the world be young , there be a time when there be no winter , '' begin Grandfather Frog .
`` That be before the hard time of which I have tell you before .
Everybody have plenty to eat , and everybody be on the best of term with all his neighbor .
Then come the hard time , and the beginning of the hard time be the come of rough Brother North Wind and Jack Frost .
Their come make the first winter .
It be n't a very long or a very hard winter , but it be long enough and hard enough to make a great deal of discomfort , particularly for those little people who live altogether on tender young green plant .
Yes , Sir , it certainly be hard on them .
Some of them nearly starve to death that first winter , short a it be .
Old Mr. Chuck , who , of course , be n't old then , be one of them .
By the time the tender , young , green thing begin to grow again , he be just a shadow of what he use to be .
He be so thin that sometimes he use to listen to see if he could n't hear his bone rattle inside his skin .
`` Of course he could n't , but he be quite sure that when the wind blew , it go right through him .
At last warm weather return , just a it do now every summer , and once more there be plenty to eat .
Some of the little people seem to forget all about the hard time of the cold weather , but not Mr. Chuck .
He have be too cold and too hungry to ever forget .
Of course , with plenty to eat , he soon grow fat and comfortable again , but all the time he keep think about the terrible visit of rough Brother North Wind and Jack Frost and wonder if they would come again .
He talk about it with his neighbor but most of them laugh and tell him that he be borrow trouble , and that they do n't believe that Brother North Wind and Jack Frost ever would come again .
`` So after a while Mr. Chuck keep his thought to himself and go about his business a usual .
But all the time he be turn over and over in his mind the possibility of another period of cold and starvation and try to think of some way to prepare for it .
He do n't once think of go to Old Mother Nature and beg her to take care of him , for he be very independent , be Mr. Chuck , and believe that those be best helped who help themselves .
So he keep study and study how he could live through another cold spell , if it should come . '' '
I have n't get a thick a fur coat a Mr. Mink or Mr . Otter or Mr. Squirrel or some others , and I ca n't run around as fast a they can , so of course I ca n't keep a warm , ' say he to himself , a he sit take a sun-bath one day . '
I must find some other way of keep warm .
Now I do n't believe the cold can get very deep down in the ground , so if I build me a house way down deep in the ground , it always will be comfortable .
Anyway , it never will be very cold .
I believe that be a good idea .
I 'll try it at once . '
`` So without waste any time , Mr. Chuck begin to dig .
He dig and he dug and he dig .
When his neighbor grow curious and asked question , he smile good-naturedly and say that he be try an experiment .
When he have make a long hall which go down so deep that he be quite sure that Jack Frost could not get down there , he make a bedroom and put in it a bed of soft grass .
When it be finish , he be so pleased with it that he retire to it every night as soon a the sun go down and do n't come out again until morning . ''
` Anyway , I wo n't freeze to death , ' say he .
Then he sigh a he remember how hungry , how terribly hungry he have be .
` Now if only I can think of some way to get food enough to carry me through , I 'll be all right . '
`` At first he think of store up food , but when he try that , he soon find that the tender green thing on which he live would n't keep .
They shrivel and dry , so that he could n't eat them at all .
He be still try to think of some plan when Old Mother Nature send warn that rough Brother North Wind and Jack Frost be come again .
Mr. Chuck 's heart sank .
He think of how soon all the tender green thing would disappear .
Right then an idea be bear in Mr. Chuck 's head .
He would eat all he could while he could , and then he would go down into his bedroom and sleep just as long a he could !
`` So day after day he spend stuff himself , and his neighbor call him Mr. Greedy .
But he do n't mind that .
He keep right on eating , and of course he grow fatter and fatter , so that at last he be so fat he could hardly get about .
The day grow cooler and cooler , and then Mr. Chuck notice that because he be so fat , he do n't feel the cold a he have before .
There come a morning at last when Mr. Chuck stick his nose out to find Jack Frost wait to pinch it .
All the tender green thing be black and dead .
Back to his bed scramble Mr. Chuck and curl up to sleep just as long a he could .
He make up his mind that he would n't worry until he have to .
He have do his best , and that be all he could do .
`` When Old Mother Nature come to see how the little people be fare , she miss Mr. Chuck .
She ask his neighbor what have become of him , but no one knew .
At length she come to his house and look inside find him fast asleep .
She saw right away what he have do and how fat he have grow .
She know without be tell what it all mean , and the idea amuse her .
Instead of waken him , a she have at first intend to do , she touch Mr. Chuck and put him into a deep sleep , say : '' ` You shall sleep , Mr. Chuck , Through the time of frost and snow .
For your courage and your pluck You shall no discomfort know . '
`` And so Mr. Chuck sleep on until the tender young green thing begin once more to grow .
The cold could not reach him , and the fat he have store under his skin take the place of food .
When he awake in the spring , he know nothing of the hard time his neighbor be talk about .
And ever since then the Chuck family have sleep through the winter , because it be the most comfortable and sensible thing to do .
I know , because I have do the same thing for year .
Good-by , Peter Rabbit !
No more story until spring . ''
Before Peter could say a word , there be a splash in the Smiling Pool , and Grandfather Frog be nowhere to be see .
`` I -- I do n't see how they do it , '' say Peter , shake his head in a puzzled way a he slowly hop towards the dear Old Briar-patch .
XII HOW OLD MR . OTTER LEARNED TO SLIDE XII HOW OLD MR . OTTER LEARNED TO SLIDE Little Joe Otter be have the jolly kind of a time .
Little Joe Otter be a jolly little chap , anyway , and just now he be extra happy .
You see , he have a brand new slippery-slide .
Yes , Sir , Little Joe have just build a new slippery-slide down the steep part of the bank into the Smiling Pool .
It be longer and smooth than his old slippery-slide , and it seem to Little Joe a if he could slide and slide all day long .
Of course he enjoy it more because he have build it himself .
He would stretch out full length at the top of the slippery-slide , give a kick to start himself , shoot down the slippery-slide , disappear headfirst with a great splash into the Smiling Pool , and then climb up the bank and do it all over again .
Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck sit watch him from the bank on the other side of the Smiling Pool .
Right down below them , sit on his big green lily-pad , be Grandfather Frog , and there be a sparkle in his big , goggly eye and his great mouth be stretch in a broad grin a he watch Little Joe Otter .
He even let a foolish green fly brush the tip of his nose and do n't snap at it .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
exclaim Grandfather Frog to no one in particular .
`` That remind me of the day when I be young and the great diver in the Smiling Pool .
My goodness , it make me feel young just to watch Little Joe shoot down that slippery-slide .
If I be n't so old , I 'd try it myself .
Wheee ! ''
With , that , Grandfather Frog suddenly jump .
It be a great , long , beautiful jump , and with his long hind leg straight out behind him , Grandfather Frog disappear in the Smiling Pool so neatly that he make hardly a splash at all , only a whole lot of ring on the surface of the water that grow big and big until they meet the ring make by Little Joe Otter and then become all mix up .
Half a minute later Grandfather Frog 's head bob up out of the water , and for the first time he saw Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit .
`` Come on in ; the water 's fine ! ''
he cry , and roll one big , goggly eye up at jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun and wink it in the most comical way , for he know , and he know that Mr. Sun know , just how Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit dislike the water .
`` No , thanks , '' reply Peter , but there be a wistful look in his big eye a he watch Little Joe Otter splash into the Smiling Pool .
Little Joe be have such a good time !
Peter actually be wish that he do like the water .
Grandfather Frog climb out on his big green lily-pad .
He settle himself comfortably so a to face Johnny Chuck and Peter and at the same time watch Little Joe out of the corner of one big , goggly eye .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say he , a once more Little Joe splash into the Smiling Pool .
`` Did you ever hear about Little Joe 's family secret ? ''
he ask in his deep gruff voice .
`` No , '' cry Peter Rabbit .
`` Do tell u about it !
I just love secret . ''
There be a great deal of eagerness in Peter 's voice , and it make Grandfather Frog smile .
`` Is that the reason you never can keep them ? ''
he ask .
Peter look a wee bit foolish , but he keep still and wait patiently .
After what seem a long , long time , Grandfather Frog clear his throat two or three time , and this be the story he tell Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit : `` Once upon a time when the world be young , the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Little Joe Otter get into a peck of trouble .
Yes , Sir , he certainly do get into a peck of trouble .
You see , it be winter , and everything be cover with snow , so that food be hard to get .
Most of the little forest and meadow people find little to eat , and it take a great deal of hunt to find that little .
Only those who , like old Mr. Squirrel , have be wise enough to lay up a store of food when there be plenty , and two or three others like Mr. Mink and Mr . Otter , who could go fishing in the spring-holes which have not freeze over , have full stomach .
`` Now an empty stomach almost always make a short temper .
It be hard , very hard indeed to be hungry and good-natured at the same time .
So a most of the people of the Green Forest be hungry all the time , they be also short-tempered all the time .
Mr . Otter know this .
When any of them come prowl around the spring-hole where he be fish , he would tease them by let them see how fat he be .
Sometimes he would bring up a fine fish and eat it right before them without offer to share so much a a mouthful .
He have do this several time to Mr. Lynx , and though Mr. Lynx have beg and beg for just a bite , Mr . Otter have refuse the teeniest , weeny bit and have even make fun of Mr. Lynx for not be smart enough to get sufficient to eat .
`` Now it happen that one fine morning Mr . Otter take it into his head to take a walk in the Green Forest .
It be a beautiful morning , and Mr . Otter go far than he intend .
He be just try to make up his mind whether to turn back or go just a little farther , when he hear stealthy footstep behind him .
He look over his shoulder , and what he saw help him to make up his mind in a hurry .
There , creep over the frozen snow , be Mr. Lynx , and the side of Mr. Lynx be very thin , and the eye of Mr. Lynx look very hungry and fierce , and the claw of Mr. Lynx be very long and strong and cruel look .
Mr . Otter make up his mind right away that the cold , black water of that open spring-hole be the only place for him , and he start for it without even pass the time of day with Mr. Lynx .
`` Now Mr . Otter 's leg be very short , just a Little Joe 's be , but it be surprise how fast he get over the snow that beautiful morning .
When he come to the top of a little hill , he would slide down , because he find that he could go faster that way .
But in spite of all he could do , Mr. Lynx travel faster , come with great jump and snarl and spit with every jump .
Mr . Otter be almost out of breath when he reach the high bank just above the open spring-hole .
It be very steep , very steep indeed .
Mr . Otter throw a hasty glance over his shoulder .
Mr. Lynx be so near that in one more jump he would catch him .
There be n't time to run around to the place where the bank be low .
Mr . Otter throw himself flat , give a frantic kick with his hind leg , shut his eye , and shoot down , down , down the slippery bank so fast that he lose what little breath he have leave .
Then he land with a great splash in the cold , black water and be safe , for Mr. Lynx be afraid of the water .
He stop right on the very edge of the steep bank , where he growl and screech and tell Mr . Otter what dreadful thing he would do to him if ever he catch him .
`` Now in spite of his dreadful fright , Mr . Otter have enjoy that excite slide down the steep bank .
He get to think about it after Mr. Lynx have slink away into the Green Forest , and when he be rest and could breathe comfortably again , he make up his mind to try it once more .
So he climb out where the bank be low and run around to the steep place and once more slid down into the water .
It be great fun , the great fun Mr . Otter ever have have .
He do it again and again .
In fact , he keep do it all the rest of that day .
And he find that the more he slide , the smoother and more slippery become the slippery-slide , for the water drip from his brown coat and froze on the slide .
`` After that , as long a the snow last , Mr . Otter spend all his time , between eat and sleep , slide down his slippery-slide .
He learn just how to hold his leg so that they would not be hurt .
When gentle Sister South Wind come in the spring and take away all the snow , Mr . Otter hardly know what to do with himself , until one day a bright idea pop into his head and make him laugh aloud .
Why not make a slippery-slide of mud and clay ?
Right away he try it .
It be n't as good a the snow slide , but by try and try , he find a way to make it good than at first .
After that Mr . Otter be perfectly happy , for summer and winter he have a slippery-slide .
He teach his child , and they teach their child how to make slippery-slides , and ever since that long-ago day when the world be young , the making of slippery-slides have be the family secret of the Otters . ''
`` And it 's the best secret in the world , '' say Little Joe Otter , swim up behind Grandfather Frog just then .
`` I wish -- I wish I have a slippery-slide , '' say Peter Rabbit wistfully .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Be content with the blessing you have get , Peter Rabbit .
Be content with the blessing you have get .
No good come of wish for thing which it never be mean that you should have .
It be a bad habit and it make discontent . ''
XIII HOW DRUMMER THE WOODPECKER CAME BY HIS RED CAP XIII HOW DRUMMER THE WOODPECKER CAME BY HIS RED CAP Drummer the Woodpecker be beat his long roll on a hollow tree in the Green Forest .
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat-tat !
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat-tat !
Drummer think it the most beautiful sound in the world .
After each long roll he would stop and listen for a reply .
You see , sometimes one of his family in another part of the Green Forest , or over in the Old Orchard , would hear him drum and would hasten to find a hollow tree himself and drum too .
Then they would drum back and forth to each other for the long time , until all the other little people would scold because of the racket and would wish they could stop their ear .
But it be music , real music to Drummer and all the member of his family , and Drummer never be happy than when beat his long roll a he be do now .
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat !
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat !
Suddenly Drummer hear a scratch sound inside the hollow tree .
Once more he beat the long roll and the scratching sound grow louder .
Then he hear a voice just a little way above him .
`` Do Ah hear some one knocking ? ''
ask the voice .
Drummer look up .
There be Unc ' Billy Possum 's sharp little face stick out of his doorway , and Unc ' Billy look very sleepy and very cross and at the same time a if he be try very hard to be polite and pleasant .
`` Hello , Unc ' Billy !
Is this your house ?
I do n't know it when I begin to drum .
I be n't knock ; I be drum .
I just love to drum , '' reply Drummer .
`` Ah reckons yo ' do by the noise yo ' have be make , but Ah do n't like be inside the drum .
Ah 'm feelin ' powerful bad in the haid just now , Brer Drummer , and Ah cert ` nly will take it kindly if yo ' will find another drum , '' say Unc ' Billy , hold his head in both hand a if he have a terrible headache .
Drummer look disappointed and a little bit hurt , but he be one of the best-natured little people in the Green Forest and always willing to be oblige .
`` I 'm sorry if I have disturb you , Unc ' Billy , '' he reply promptly .
`` Of course I wo n't drum here any longer , if you do n't like it .
I 'll look for another hollow tree , though I do n't believe I can find another a good .
It be one of the best sounding tree I have ever drum on .
It 's simply beautiful ! ''
There be a great deal of regret in his voice , a if it be the hard work to give up that tree .
`` Ah 'll tell yo ' where there 's another just as good , '' reply Unc ' Billy .
`` Yo ' see the top of that ol ' chestnut-tree way down there in the holler ?
Well , yo ' try that .
Ah 'm sure yo ' will like it . ''
Drummer thank Unc ' Billy politely and bob his red-capped head a he spread his wing and start in the direction of the big chestnut-tree .
Unc ' Billy grin a he watch him .
Then he slowly and solemnly wink one eye at Peter Rabbit , who have just come along .
`` What 's the joke ? ''
ask Peter .
`` Ah do just send Brer Drummer down to the big chestnut-tree to drum , '' Unc ' Billy reply , wink again .
`` Why , that 's Bobby Coon 's house ! ''
cry Peter , and then he saw the joke and begin to grin too .
In a few minute they hear Drummer 's long roll .
Then again and again .
The third time it break off right in the middle , and right away a terrible fuss start down at the big chestnut-tree .
They could hear Drummer 's voice , and it sound very angry .
`` Ah reckon Brer Coon be wake up and lose his temper , '' chuckle Unc ' Billy .
`` It 's a bad habit to lose one 's temper .
Yes , Sah , it cert ` nly be a bad habit .
Ah reckons Ah well be turn in fo ' another nap , Brer Rabbit . ''
With that Unc ' Billy disappear , still chuckle .
Hardly be he out of sight when Peter saw Drummer head that way , and Drummer look very much put out about something .
He just nod to Peter and fly straight to Unc ' Billy 's tree .
Then he begin to drum .
How he do drum !
His red-capped head fly back and forth a Peter never have see it fly before .
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat-tat !
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat !
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat-tat !
Drummer hardly pause for breath .
There be too much noise for Peter , and he kick up his heel and start for the Smiling Pool , and all the way there he laugh .
`` I hope Unc ' Billy be enjoy a good nap , '' he chuckle .
`` Drummer certainly have turn the joke back on Unc ' Billy this time , and I guess it serve him right . ''
He be still laugh when he reach the Smiling Pool .
Grandfather Frog watch him until he begin to smile too .
You know laughter be catch .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Ho , ho , ho ! ''
laugh Peter and hold his side .
`` What be the joke ? ''
demand Grandfather Frog in his deep voice .
When Peter could get his breath , he tell Grandfather Frog all about the joke on Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` Listen ! ''
say Peter at the end of the story .
They both listen .
Rat-a-tat-tat-tat-tat !
The long roll of Drummer the Woodpecker could be hear clear down to the Smiling Pool , and Peter and Grandfather Frog knew by the sound that it still come from Unc ' Billy 's house .
`` Chug-a-rum !
That remind me , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` Did you ever hear how Drummer come by his red cap ? ''
`` No , '' reply Peter .
`` How do he ? ''
There be great eagerness in Peter 's voice .
`` Well , '' say Grandfather Frog , settle himself in a way that Peter know mean a story , `` of course Drummer over there come by his red cap because it be hand down in the family , but of course there 's a reason . ''
`` Of course , '' say Peter , quite a if he know all about it .
Grandfather Frog roll his great , goggly eye and look at Peter suspiciously , but Peter look so innocent and eager that he go on with his story .
`` Of course , it all happen way back in the day when the world be young . ''
`` Of course ! ''
say Peter .
This time Grandfather Frog take no notice .
`` Drummer 's grandfather a thousand time remove be just a plain little black and white bird without the least bit of bright color on him .
He do n't have any sweet voice than Drummer have to-day .
Altogether he seem to his neighbor a no-account little fellow , and they do n't have much to do with him .
So Mr. Woodpecker live pretty much alone .
In fact , he live alone so much that when he find a hollow tree he use to pound on it just to make a noise and keep from be lonesome , and that be how he learn to drum .
You see , he have n't any voice for singing , and so he get in the habit of drum to keep his spirit up .
`` Now all the time , right down in his heart , Mr. Woodpecker envy the bird who have handsome coat .
He use to wish and wish that he have something bright , if it be no more than a pretty necktie .
But he never say anything about it , and no one suspect it but Old Mother Nature , and Mr. Woodpecker do n't know that she know it .
Whenever he get to wish too much , he would try to forget it by hunt for worm that bore into the tree of the Green Forest and which other bird could not get because they do not have the stout bill and the long tongue Mr. Woodpecker possess .
`` Now it happen that while Old Mother Nature be busy elsewhere , a great number of worm settle in the Green Forest and begin to bore into the tree , so that after a while many tree grow sickly and then die .
None of the other little people seem to notice it , or if they do , they say it be none of their business and that Old Mother Nature ought to look out for such thing .
They shrug their shoulder and go on playing and have a good time .
But Mr. Woodpecker be worry .
He love the Green Forest dearly , and he begin to fear that if something be n't do , there would n't be any Green Forest .
He say as much to some of his neighbor , but they only laugh at him .
The more he think about it , the more Mr. Woodpecker worry . ''
` Something must be do , ' say he to himself .
` Yes , Sir , something must be do .
If Old Mother Nature do n't come to attend to thing pretty soon , it will be too late . '
Then he make up his mind that he would do what he could .
From early morning until night he hunt worm and dig them out of the tree .
He would start at the bottom of a tree and work up , go all over it until he be sure that there be n't another worm leave .
Then he would fly to the next tree .
He pound with his bill until his neck ache .
He do n't even take time to drum .
His neighbor laugh at him at first , but he keep right on work , work , work every hour of the day .
`` At last Old Mother Nature appear very unexpectedly .
She go all through the Green Forest , and her sharp eye saw all that Mr. Woodpecker have do .
She do n't say a word to him , but she call all the little people of the Green Forest before her , and when they be all gather around , she send for Mr. Woodpecker .
She make him sit up on a dead limb of a tall chestnut-tree where all could see him .
Then she tell just what he have do , and how he have save the Green Forest , and how great a debt the other little people owe to him . ''
` And now that you may never forget it , ' she conclude , ' I herewith make Mr. Woodpecker the policeman of the tree , and this be his reward to be wear by him and his child forever and ever . '
With that she call Mr. Woodpecker down before her and put on his head a beautiful red cap , for she know how in his heart he have long to wear something bright .
Mr. Woodpecker thank Old Mother Nature a best he could and then slip away where he could be alone with his happiness .
All the rest of the day the other little people hear him drum off by himself in the Green Forest and smile , for they know that that be the way he be express his joy , have no voice to sing .
`` And that , '' conclude Grandfather Frog , `` be how Drummer whom you know come by his red cap . ''
`` Is n't it splendid ! ''
cry Peter Rabbit , and then he and Grandfather Frog both smile a they hear a long rat-a-tat-tat-tat roll out from the Green Forest .
XIV HOW OLD MR. TREE TOAD FOUND OUT HOW TO CLIMB XIV HOW OLD MR. TREE TOAD FOUND OUT HOW TO CLIMB Of all the puzzling thing over which Peter Rabbit have sit and think and wonder until the brain in that funny little head of his be topsy-turvy , none be more puzzling than the fact that Sticky-toes the Tree Toad could climb .
Often Peter have watch him climb up the trunk of a tree or jump from one branch to another and then thought of Old Mr. Toad , own cousin to Sticky-toes , and of Grandfather Frog , another own cousin , who could n't climb at all , and wonder how it have all come about that one cousin could climb and be just as much at home in the tree a the bird , while the others could n't climb at all .
He have it on his mind one morning when he meet Old Mr. Toad solemnly hop down the Lone Little Path .
Right then and there Peter resolve to ask Old Mr. Toad .
`` Good morning , Mr. Toad , '' say Peter politely .
`` Have you a few minute to spare ? ''
Old Mr. Toad hop into the shade of a big mullein leaf .
`` I guess so , if it be anything important , '' say he .
`` Phew !
Hot , be n't it ?
I simply ca n't stand the sun .
Now what be that you 've get on your mind , Peter ? ''
Peter hesitate a minute , for he be n't at all sure that Old Mr. Toad would think the matter sufficiently important for him to spend his time in story telling .
Then he blurt out the whole matter and how he have puzzle and puzzle why Sticky-toes be able to climb when none of the rest of the Toad family could .
Old Mr. Toad chuckle .
`` Looking for a story a usual , I see , '' say he .
`` You ought to go to Grandfather Frog for this one , because Sticky-toes be really a Frog and not a Toad .
But we be all cousin , and I do n't mind tell you about Sticky-toes , or rather about his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather , who be the first of the family ever to climb a tree .
You see , it be all in the family , and I be very proud of my family , which be one of the very old . ''
Peter settle himself comfortably and prepare to listen .
Old Mr. Toad snap up a foolish spider who come too near and then clear his throat .
`` Once on a time , '' he begin , `` when Old Mother Nature make the first land and the first tree and plant , the Toads and the Frogs be the first to leave the water to see what dry land be like .
The Toads , be bold than the Frogs , go all over the new land while the Frogs keep within jump distance of the water , just a Grandfather Frog do to this day .
There be one Frog , however , who , see how bravely and boldly the Toads go forth to see all that be to be see in the new land , make up his mind that he too would see the Great World .
He be the small of the Frogs , and his friend and relative warn him not to go , say that he would come to no good end .
`` But he would n't listen to their dismal croaking and hurry after the Toads .
Being able to make long jump than they could , he soon catch up with them , and they all journey on together .
The Toads be so pleased that one of their cousin be brave enough to join them that they make him very welcome and treat him a one of themselves , so that they soon get to think of him a a Toad and not a a Frog at all .
`` Now the Toads soon find that Old Mother Nature be have a hard time to make plant grow , because as fast a they come up , they be eat by insect .
You see , she have so many thing to attend to in those day when the world be young that she have to leave a great many thing to take care of themselves and get along the best they could , and it be this way with the plant .
It be then that the great idea come to my great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather , and he call all the Toads together and propose that they help Old Mother Nature by catch the bug and worm that be destroy the plant .
`` Little Mr. Frog , who have be adopt by the Toads , be one of the most eager to help , and he be busy every minute .
After a while the Toads have catch most of the bug and worm on the ground and within reach , and the plant begin to grow .
But when the plant get above the reach of the Toads , the bug and the worm be safe once more and begin to multiply so that the plant suffer and stop grow .
You see , there be no bird in those day to help .
One day little Mr. Frog sit under a bush on which most of the leaf have be eat .
He saw a worm eat a leaf on one of the low branch .
It be quite a way above his head .
It worry him .
He keep his eye on that worm and thought and think until his head ache .
At last he get an idea . '
I wonder , ' think he , ` if I jump as hard a I can , if I can catch that fellow .
I 'll try it .
It will do no harm to try . '
`` So he draw his long leg close under him , and then he jump up with all his might .
He do n't quite reach the bug , but he get his hand on the branch and by pull and struggle , he manage to get up on it .
It be a very uncertain seat , but he hang on and creep along until he could dart his tongue out and catch that worm .
Then he saw another , and in try to catch that one he lose his balance and fell to the ground with a thump .
It quite knock the wind from his body .
`` That night little Mr. Frog study and study , try to think of some way by which he could get up in the bush and tree and clear them of bug and worm .
` If only I could hold on once I get up there , I would be all right , ' think he .
` Then I could leave the bug and worm on the ground for my cousin the Toads to look after , while I look after those beyond their reach . '
`` The next day and the next , and for many day thereafter , little Mr. Frog keep jump for bug on the bush .
He get many thump and bump , but he do n't mind these , for little by little he be learn how to hang on to the branch once he get up in them .
Then one day , just by accident , he put one hand against the trunk of a young pine-tree , and when he start to take it away , he find it stick fast .
He have to pull to get it free .
Like a flash an idea pop into his head .
He rub a little of the pitch , for that be what have make his hand stick , on both hand , and then he start to climb a tree .
As long a the pitch last , he could climb .
`` Little Mr. Frog be tickle to death , with his discovery , but he do n't say a word to any one about it .
Every day he rub pitch on his hand and then climb about in the bush and low tree , rid them of bug and worm .
Of course , it be n't very pleasant to have that pitch on his hand , because dirt and all sort of thing which he happen to touch stick to them , but he make the best of a bad matter and wash them carefully when he be through with his day 's work .
`` Quite unexpectedly Old Mother Nature return to see how the tree and the plant be get on .
You see , she be worry about them .
When she find what the Toads have be do , she be mightily pleased .
Then she notice that some of the bush and low tree have very few leaf leave , while others look thrifty and strong . ''
` That 's queer , ' say Old Mother Nature to herself and go over to examine a bush .
Hanging on to a branch for dear life she saw a queer little fellow who be so busy that he do n't see her at all .
It be little Mr. Frog .
He be catch bug as fast a he could .
Old Mother Nature wrinkle up her brow .
` Now however do he learn to climb ? '
think she .
Then she hide where she could watch .
By and by she saw little Mr. Frog tumble out of the bush , because , you know , the pitch on his hand have wear off .
He hurry over to a pine-tree and rub more pitch on and then jump up into the bush and go to work again .
`` You can guess how astonished Old Mother Nature be when she saw this performance .
And she be pleased .
Oh , yes , indeed , Old Mother Nature be wonderfully pleased .
She be pleased because little Mr. Frog be try so hard to help her , and she be pleased because he have be so smart in find a way to climb .
When she have laugh until she could laugh no more at the way little Mr. Frog have manage to stick to his work , she take him down very gently and wipe the pitch from his hand .
Then she gently pinch the end of each finger and each toe so that they end in little round disc instead of be point a before , and in each little disc be a clean , sticky substance .
Then she toss him up in a tree , and when he touch a branch , he find that he could hold on without the least danger of fall . '' '
I appoint you caretaker of my tree , ' say Old Mother Nature , and from that day on little Mr. Frog live in the tree , a do his child and his child 's child , even a Sticky-toes do to-day .
And though he be really a Frog , he be call the Tree Toad , and the Toads have always be proud to have him so call .
And this be the end of the story , '' conclude Old Mr. Toad .
XV HOW OLD MR. HERON LEARNED PATIENCE XV HOW OLD MR. HERON LEARNED PATIENCE Whenever in the spring or summer Peter Rabbit visit the Smiling Pool or the Laughing Brook , he be pretty sure to run across Longlegs the Heron .
The first tune Peter saw him , he think that never in all his life have he see such a homely fellow .
Longlegs be stand with his foot in the water and his head drawn back on his shoulder so that he do n't seem to have any neck at all .
Peter sit and star at him most impolitely .
He know that he be impolite , but for the life of him he could n't help staring .
`` He 's all leg , '' think Peter .
`` Old Mother Nature must have be in a hurry when she make his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather way back when the world be young and forget to give him a neck .
I wonder why he do n't move . ''
But Longlegs do n't move .
Peter star as long a his patience hold out .
Then he give up and go on to see what else he could find .
But in a little while Peter be back again at the place where he have see Longlegs .
He do n't really expect to find him there , but he do .
So far a Peter could see , Longlegs have n't move .
`` Must be asleep , '' think Peter , and after watch for a few minute , go away again .
Half an hour later Peter be once more back .
There stand Longlegs just a before .
`` Now I know he be asleep , '' mutter Peter .
No sooner be the word out of his mouth than something happen , something so sudden and surprising that Peter lose his balance and nearly fell over backward .
The long bill which Peter have see stick forth from between those humped-up shoulder dart out and down into the water like a flash .
Behind that bill be the long neck Peter ever have see !
It be so long that Peter blink to be perfectly sure that his eye have not be play him a trick .
But they have n't , for Longlegs be gulp down a little fish he have just catch , and when at last it be down , he stretch his neck up very straight while he look this way and that way , and Peter just gasp .
`` I think he be all leg , but instead of that he 's all neck , '' mutter Peter .
Then Longlegs slowly draw his head down , and it seem to Peter a if he must somehow wind that long neck up inside his body to get it so completely out of the way .
In a minute Longlegs be stand just a before , with seemingly no neck at all .
Peter watch until he grow tired , but Longlegs do n't move again .
After that Peter go every chance he have to watch Longlegs , but he never have patience to watch long enough to see Longlegs catch another fish .
He speak of it one day to Grandfather Frog .
At the mere mention of Longlegs , Grandfather Frog sit up and take notice .
`` Where do you see him ? ''
ask Grandfather Frog , and Peter think his voice sound anxious .
`` Down the Laughing Brook , '' reply Peter .
`` Why ? ''
`` Oh , nothing , '' say Grandfather Frog , try to make his voice sound a if he be n't interested .
`` I just wonder where the long-legged nuisance might be . ''
`` He 's the lazy fellow I ever saw , '' declare Peter .
`` He just stand do nothing all day . ''
`` Huh ! ''
exclaim Grandfather Frog .
`` If your family have suffer from him as much a mine have , you would say that he be altogether too busy .
Ask the Trout what they think , or the Minnow family . ''
`` Oh , '' say Peter , `` you mean that when he stand still that way he be fish . ''
Grandfather Frog nod .
`` Well , '' say Peter , `` all I can say be that he be the most patient fellow I ever saw .
I do n't suppose there be such patience . ''
`` He come rightly by it , '' return Grandfather Frog .
`` He get it from his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather , who live when the world be young .
He learn it then . ''
`` How ? ''
demand Peter , eager for a story .
Grandfather Frog 's eye take on a far-away look , a if he be see into that long-ago past .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
he begin .
`` It always seem to old Mr. Heron a if Old Mother Nature must have make him last of all the bird and be in such a hurry that she do n't care how he look .
His leg be so long and his neck be so long that all his neighbor laugh at him and make fun of him .
He be just as awkward a he look .
His long leg be in his way .
He do n't know what to do with his long neck .
When he try to run , everybody shout with laughter .
When he try to fly , he stretch his long neck out , and then he could n't keep his balance and just flop about , while all his neighbor laugh hard than ever .
Poor Mr. Heron be ashamed of himself , actually ashamed of himself .
He quite overlook the fact that Old Mother Nature have give him a really beautiful coat of feather .
Some of those who laugh at him would have give anything to have possess such a beautiful coat .
But Mr. Heron do n't know this .
He could n't bear to be laugh at , wherein he be very like most people .
`` So he try his best to keep out of sight as much a possible .
Now in those day , a at present , the rush grow tall beside the Smiling Pool , and among them Mr. Heron find a hiding-place .
Because his leg be long , he could wade out in the water and keep quite out of sight of those who live on the land .
So he find a use for his long leg and be glad that they be long .
At first he use to go ashore to hunt for food .
One day a he be wad ashore , he surprise a school of little fish and manage to catch one .
It taste so good that he want more , and every day he go fishing .
Whenever he saw little fish swimming where the water be shallow , he would rush in among them and do his best to catch one .
Sometimes he do , but more often he do n't .
You see , he be so clumsy and awkward that he make a great splashing , and the fish would hear him come and get away .
`` One day after he have try and try without catch even one , he stop just at the edge of the rush to rest .
His long neck ache , and to rest it he lay it back on his shoulder .
For a long time he stand there , rest .
The water around his foot be cool and comforting .
He be very comfortable but for one thing , -- he be hungry .
He be just make up his mind to go on and hunt for something to eat when he saw a school of little fish swimming straight towards him .
` Perhaps , ' think he , ` if I keep perfectly still , they will come near enough for me to catch one . '
So he keep perfectly still .
He do n't dare even stretch his long neck up .
Sure enough , the little fish swam almost to his very foot .
They do n't see him at all .
When they be near enough , he dart his long neck forward and catch one without any trouble at all .
Mr. Heron be almost as surprised a the fish he have catch .
You see , he discover that with his neck lay back on his shoulder that way , he could dart his head forward ever so much quick than when he be hold it up straight .
It really be a great discovery for Mr. Heron .
`` Of course all the other fish dart away in great fright , but Mr. Heron do n't mind .
He settle himself in great contentment , for now he be less hungry .
By and by some foolish tadpole come wriggle along .
` I 'll just try catch one of them for practice .
Maybe they be good to eat , ' think Mr. Heron , and just a before dart his head and great bill downward and catch a tadpole . ''
` Um-m , they be good ! '
exclaim Mr. Heron , and once more settle himself to watch and wait .
`` That be a sad day for the Frog family , but a great day for Mr. Heron when he discover that tadpole be good to eat . ''
Grandfather Frog sigh mournfully .
`` Yes , '' he continue , `` that be a great day for Mr. Heron .
He have discover that he could gain more by patient wait than by frantic hunting , and he have find that his long neck really be a blessing .
After that , whenever he be hungry , he would stand perfectly still beside some little pool where foolish young fish or careless tadpole be at play and wait patiently until they come within reach .
`` One day he be startle into an attempt to fly by hear the stealthy footstep of Mr. Fox behind him .
His head be draw back on his shoulder at the time , and he be so excited that he forget to straighten it out .
Just imagine how surprised he be , and how surprised Mr. Fox be , when he sail away in beautiful flight , his long leg trail behind him .
With his neck carry that way , he could fly as well a any one .
From that day on , no one laugh at Mr. Heron because of his long leg and long neck .
Mr. Heron himself become proud of them .
You see , he have learn how to use what he have be give .
Also he have learn the value of patience .
So he be happy and envy no one .
But he still like best to keep by himself and become know a the lone fisherman , just a Longlegs be to-day .
Chug-a-rum !
Is n't that Longlegs come this way this very minute ?
This be no place for me ! ''
With a great splash Grandfather Frog dive into the Smiling Pool .
-LSB- Illustration : `` His leg be so long , and his neck be so long that all his neighbor laugh at him . ''
Page 210 . -RSB-
XVI HOW TUFTY THE LYNX HAPPENS TO HAVE A STUMP OF A TAIL XVI HOW TUFTY THE LYNX HAPPENS TO HAVE A STUMP OF A TAIL In all his life Peter Rabbit have see Tufty the Lynx but once , but that once be enough .
Tufty , you know , live in the Great Woods .
But once , when the winter be very cold , he have venture down into the Green Forest , hop that it would be easy to get a living there .
It be then that Peter have see him .
In fact , Peter have have the narrow of escape , and the very memory of it make him shiver .
He never would forget that great , gray , skulk form that slip like a shadow through the tree , that fierce , beard face , those cruel , pale yellow-green eye , or that switch stump of a tail .
That tail fascinate Peter .
It be just an apology for a tail .
For Tufty 's size it be hardly a much of a tail a Peter himself have .
It make Peter feel a lot well .
Also it make him very curious .
The first chance he get , he ask his cousin , Jumper the Hare , about it .
You know Jumper use to live in the Great Woods where Tufty live , and Peter felt sure that he must know the reason why Tufty have such a ridiculous stub of a tail .
Jumper do know , and this be the story he tell Peter : `` Way back in the beginning of thing live old Mr. Lynx . ''
`` I know , '' interrupt Peter .
`` He be the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Tufty , and he be n't old then . ''
`` Who 's tell this story ? ''
demand Jumper crossly .
`` If you know it why do you ask me ? ''
`` I beg your pardon .
Indeed I do .
I wo n't say another word , '' reply Peter hastily .
`` All right , see that you do n't .
Interruptions always spoil a story , '' say Jumper .
`` You be quite right about old Mr. Lynx .
He be n't old then .
No one be old , because it be in the beginning of thing .
At that time Mr. Lynx boast a long tail , quite a fine a tail a his cousin , Mr. Panther .
He be very proud of it .
You know there be a say that pride go before a fall .
It be so with Mr. Lynx .
He boast about his tail .
He say that it be the fine tail in the world .
He say so much that his neighbor get tire of hear about it .
He make a perfect nuisance of himself .
He switch and wave his long tail about continually .
It seem a if that tail be never still .
He make fun of those whose tail be short or of different shape or less handsome .
He quite forget that that tail have be give him by Old Mother Nature , but talk and act a if he have grow that tail himself .
`` When at last his neighbor could stand it no longer , they decide to teach him a lesson .
One day while he be off hunt , they hold a meeting , and it be decide that the very next time that Mr. Lynx boast of his tail old King Bear should slip up behind him and step on it a close to his body a he could , and then each of the others should pull a little tuft of hair from it , so that it would be a long time before Mr. Lynx would be able to boast of it beauty again .
`` The chance come that very even .
Mr. Lynx have have a very successful day , and he be feel very fine .
He begin to boast of what a great hunter he be , and of how very clever and very smart he be , and then , a usual , he get to boast about his tail .
He be so intent on his boasting that he do n't notice old King Bear slip around behind him .
Old King Bear wait until that long tail be still for just an instant , and then he step on it a close to the root of it a he could .
Then all the other little people shout with glee and begin to pull little tuft of hair from it , until it be the most disreputable-looking tail ever see .
`` Old Mr. Lynx let out a yowl and a screech that be enough to make your blood run cold .
But he could n't do a thing , though he tear the ground up with his great claw and pull with all his might .
You see , old King Bear be very big and very heavy , and Mr. Lynx could n't budge his tail a bit .
And he could n't turn to fight old King Bear , though it seem a if he would turn himself inside out try to .
`` At last , when old King Bear think he have be punish enough , he give the word to the others , and they all scatter to safe hiding-places , for they be of no mind to be within reach of those great claw of Mr. Lynx .
Then old King Bear let him go . ''
` By the look of it , I hardly think that you will boast of that tail for a long time to come , Mr. Lynx , ' say he in his deep , rumbly-grumbly voice .
`` Mr. Lynx turn and scream in old King Bear 's face , but that be all he dare do , for you know old King Bear be very big and strong .
Then he turn and slink away in the shadow by himself .
Now Mr. Lynx have a terrible temper , and when he saw how ragged and disreputable his once beautiful tail look , he fly into a terrible rage , and he swear that no one should laugh at his tail .
What do you think he do ? ''
`` What ? ''
ask Peter eagerly .
`` He bite it off , '' reply Jumper slowly .
`` Yes , Sir , he bite it off right at the place where old King Bear have step on it .
Of course he be sorry the minute he have do it , but it be do , and that be all there be to it .
After that he keep out of sight of all his neighbor .
He prowl around mostly at night and be very stealthy and soft-footed , always keep in the shadow .
His temper grow bad and bad from brood over his lose tail .
When any one chance to surprise him , he would switch his stub of a tail just a he use to switch his long tail .
You see he would forget .
Then when he be laugh at by those big than he , he would scream angrily and slink away like a great , gray shadow .
`` Once he beseech Old Mother Nature to give him a new tail , but in vain .
She give him a lecture which he never forget .
She tell him that it be no one 's fault but his own that he have lose the beautiful tail that he do have and have nothing but a stub left .
Mr. Lynx crawl on his stomach to the foot of Old Mother Nature and beg with tear in his eye .
Old Mother Nature look him straight in the eye , but he could n't look straight back .
He try , but he could n't do it .
He would shift his eye from side to side . ''
` Look me straight in the face , Mr. Lynx , and tell me that if I give you a handsome new tail , you will never boast about it or take undue pride in it , ' say she .
`` Mr. Lynx look her straight in the face and say ` I -- ' Then his eye shift .
He bring them back to Old Mother Nature 's face with a jerk and begin again . '
I promise -- ' Once more his eye shift .
Then he give up and sneak away into the darkest shadow he could find .
You see , he could n't look Old Mother Nature in the face and tell a lie , and that be just what he have be try to do .
The only reason he want a new tail be so that he could be proud of it and boast of it a he have of the old one .
He have n't a single real use for it , a he have find out since he have have only that stub .
`` Old Mother Nature know this perfectly well , for you ca n't fool her , and it 's of no use to try .
So Mr. Lynx never do get a new tail .
He continue to live very much by himself in the dark part of the Green Forest , never show himself to others if he could help it .
To the little people , he be like a fearsome shadow to be watch out for at all time .
His child be just like him , and his child 's child .
Tufty be the same way .
No one like him .
All who be small than he fear him .
And if he know why he have only a stub of a tail , he never mention it .
But you will notice that he switch it just a if it be a real tail .
I think he like to imagine that it be a real one . ''
`` I 've notice , '' reply Peter .
He be silent for a few minute .
Then he add : `` Is n't it curious how often we want thing we do n't need at all , and how those be the thing that make u the most trouble in this world ? ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Mother_West_Wind_ '' Where '' _Stories.txt.out
I WHERE GRANDFATHER FROG GOT HIS BIG MOUTH Everybody know that Grandfather Frog have a big mouth .
Of course !
It would n't be possible to look him straight in the face and not know that he have a big mouth .
In fact , about all you see when you look Grandfather Frog full in the face be his great big mouth and two great big goggly eye .
He seem then to be all mouth and eye .
Anyway , that be what Peter Rabbit say .
Peter never will forget the first time he saw Grandfather Frog .
Peter be very young then .
He have run away from home to see the Great World , and in the course of his wandering he come to the Smiling Pool .
Never before have he see so much water .
The most water he have ever see before be a little puddle in the Lone Little Path .
So when Peter , who be only half grown then , hop out on the bank of the Smiling Pool and saw it dimple and smile in the sunshine , he think it the most wonderful thing he ever have see .
The truth be that in those day Peter be in the habit of think everything he saw for the first time the most wonderful thing yet , and a he be continually see new thing , and a his eye always nearly pop out of his head whenever he saw something new , it be a wonder that he do n't become pop-eyed .
Peter star and star at the Smiling Pool , and little by little he begin to see other thing .
First he notice the bulrush grow with their foot in the water .
They look to him like giant grass , and he begin to be a little fearful l this should prove to be a sort of magic place -- a place of giant .
Then he notice the lily-pads , and he star very hard at these .
They look like grow thing , and yet they seem to be float right on top of the water .
It be n't until a Merry Little Breeze come along and turn the edge of one up so that Peter saw the long stem run down in the water out of sight , that he be able to understand how those lily-pads could be grow there .
He be still star at those lily-pads when a great deep voice say : `` Chug-a-rum !
Chug-a-rum !
Do n't you know it be n't polite to stare at people ? ''
That voice be so unexpected and so deep that Peter be startle .
He jump , start to run , then stop .
He want to run , but curiosity would n't let him .
He simply could n't run away until he have find out where that voice come from and to whom it belong .
It seem to Peter that it have come from right out of the Smiling Pool , but look a he would , he could n't see any one there .
`` If you please , '' say Peter timidly , `` I 'm not star at anybody . ''
All the time he be star down into the Smiling Pool with eye fairly pop out of his head .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Have a care , young fellow !
Have a care how you talk to your elder .
Do you mean to be impudent enough to tell me to my face that I be not anybody ? ''
The voice be deep and gruffer than ever , and it make Peter more uncomfortable than ever .
`` Oh , no , Sir !
No , indeed ! ''
exclaim Peter .
`` I do n't mean anything of the kind .
I -- I -- well , if you please , Sir , I do n't see you at all , so how can I be star at you ?
I 'm sure from the sound of your voice that you must be somebody very important .
Please excuse me for seem to stare .
I be just look for you , that be all . ''
A little movement in the water close to a big green lily-pad caught Peter 's eye , and then out on the big green lily-pad climb Grandfather Frog .
If Peter have star before he doubly star now , eye and mouth wide open .
Grandfather Frog be look his very best in his handsome green coat and white-and-yellow waistcoat .
But Peter have hardly notice these at all .
`` Why , you 're all mouth ! ''
he exclaim , and then look very much ashamed of his impoliteness .
Grandfather Frog 's great goggly eye twinkle .
He know that Peter be very young and innocent and just start out in the Great World .
He know that Peter do n't intend to be impolite .
`` Not quite , '' say he good-naturedly .
`` Not quite all mouth , though I must admit that it be of good size .
The fact be , I would n't have it a bit small if I could .
If it be any small , I should miss many a good meal , and if I be force to do that , I be afraid I should be very ill-tempered indeed .
The truth be , I be very proud of my big mouth .
I do n't know of any one who have a big one for their size . ''
He open his mouth wide , and it seem to Peter that Grandfather Frog 's whole head simply split in half .
He have n't suppose anybody in all the Great World possess such a mouth .
`` Where do you get it ? ''
gasp Peter , and then felt that he have ask a very foolish question .
Grandfather Frog chuckle .
`` I get it from my father , and he get his from his father , and so on , way back to the day when the world be young and the Frogs rule the world , '' say he .
`` Would you like to hear about it ? ''
`` I 'd love to ! ''
cry Peter .
So he settle himself comfortably on the bank of the Smiling Pool for the first of many , many story he be to hear from Grandfather Frog .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
begin Grandfather Frog .
You know he always begin a story that way .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Once upon a time the Great World be mostly water , and most of the people live in the water .
It be in those day that my great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather live .
Those be happy day for the Frogs .
Yes , indeed , those be happy day for the Frogs .
Of course they have enemy , but those enemy be all in the water .
They do n't have to be watch out for danger from the air and from the land , a I do now .
There be plenty to eat and little to do , and the Frog tribe increase very fast .
In fact , the Frogs increase so fast that after a while there be n't plenty to eat .
That be , there be n't plenty of the kind of food they have be use to , which be mostly water plant , and water bug and such thing .
`` Of course there be many fish , and these also increase very fast , and the big fish eat the Frogs whenever they could catch them , just a they do to this day .
The big fish also eat the little fish , and it be n't long before the Frogs and the little fish take to live where the water be not deep enough for the big fish to swim , and this make it all the harder to get enough to eat .
The mouth of the Frogs in those day be not big .
In fact , they be quite small .
You see , live on the kind of food they do , they have no need of big mouth .
`` One day a a Great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather Frog sit with just his head out of water , wonder what it would seem like to have his stomach really fill , a school of little fish come swim about him , and it pop into his head that if little fish be good for big fish to eat , they might be good for a Frog to eat .
So he catch the first one that come within reach , and he find it be good to eat .
He like it so well that after that he catch fish whenever he could .
Of course he swallow them whole .
He have to , because he have no chewing or biting teeth .
`` Now the Frogs always have be famous for their appetite , and Great-grandfather Frog find that it take a great many of these teeny weeny fish to make a comfortable meal .
He be think of this one day when a large fish come within reach , and almost without realize what he be do Great-grandfather snap at and catch him .
He catch the fish by the tail and at once begin to swallow it , which , of course , be no way to swallow a fish .
But Great-grandfather Frog have much to learn in those day , and so he try to swallow that fish tail first instead of head first .
He get the tail down and the small part of the body , and then that fish stuck .
Yes , Sir , that fish stuck .
The fact be , Great-grandfather Frog 's mouth be n't wide enough .
It be bad enough not to be able to swallow all of that fish , but what be bad be the discovery that he could n't get up again what he have swallow .
That fish be stick !
It would go neither down nor up .
`` Poor Great-grandfather Frog be in a terrible fix .
Big tear roll down his cheek .
He choke and choke and choke , until it look very much a if he might choke to death .
Just in time , in the very nick of time , who should come along but Old Mother Nature .
She saw right away what the trouble be , and she pull out the fish .
Then she ask how that fish have happen to be in such a place a Great-grandfather Frog 's mouth .
When he could get his breath , he tell her all about it -- how food have be get scarce and how he have discover that fish be good to eat , and how he have make a mistake in catch a fish too big for his mouth .
Old Mother Nature look thoughtful .
She saw the great number of young fish .
Suddenly she reach over and put a finger in Great-grandfather Frog 's mouth and stretch it sideways .
Then she do the same thing to the other corner .
Great-grandfather Frog 's mouth be three time as big a it have be before . ''
` Now , ' say she , ' I do n't believe you 'll have any more trouble , and I 'm go to do the same thing for all the other Frogs . '
`` She do that very day , and from then on the Frogs no longer have any trouble in get plenty to eat .
So that be where I get my big mouth , and I tell you right now I would n't trade it for anything anybody else have got , '' conclude Grandfather Frog , a he snap up a foolish green fly who come too near .
`` I think it be splendid , perfectly splendid , '' cry Peter .
`` I wish I have one just like it . ''
And then he wonder why Grandfather Frog laugh so hard .
II WHERE MISER THE TRADE RAT FIRST SET UP SHOP It be quite by accident that Peter Rabbit first heard of Miser the Trade Rat .
You know how it be with Peter ; he be forever use those big ear of his to learn interesting thing .
That be what ear be for ; but there be a right way and a wrong way to use them , and I be afraid that Peter be n't always over-particular in this respect .
I suspect , in fact I know , that Peter sometimes listen when he have no business to listen and know he have no business to listen .
Again he sometimes overhear thing quite by accident when he can not very well help hearing .
It be in this way that he first heard of Miser the Trade Rat .
Peter have creep into a hollow log in the Green Forest to rest and to feel absolutely safe while he be do it .
He have be there only a little while when he hear light footstep outside and a moment later a voice which make him shiver a little in spite of himself and the knowledge that he be perfectly safe .
The footstep and the voice be Old Man Coyote 's .
Very carefully Peter peep out .
Old Man Coyote have sit down close by the log in which Peter be hide .
On a dead tree close at hand sit Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , who have come up from way down south for the summer , and it be to him that Old Man Coyote be talk .
`` I be over by Farmer Brown 's barn last night , '' say Old Man Coyote , `` and I catch a glimpse of Robber the Brown Eat .
What a disgrace he be to the whole Rat tribe !
For that matter , he be a disgrace to all who live on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest .
He be n't much like his cousin , Miser the Trade Rat . ''
`` Mah goodness !
Do yo ' know Miser ? ''
exclaim Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Do I know Miser ?
I should say I do ! ''
reply Old Man Coyote .
`` I 've try to catch him enough time to know him .
He keep a junk shop very near where I use to live way out west .
Do you know him , Mr. Buzzard ? ''
`` Ah cert ` nly do , '' chuckle Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Ah cert ` nly do .
Ah never do see such a busy fellow a he be .
Ah do see his junk shop many time , and always it do be growin ' big .
Ah wonder , Brer Coyote , if yo ' ever hear the story of his Great-great-ever-so-great-gran ' - daddy , the first of the family , and how and where he start the business that 's be keep in the family ever since . ''
`` No , '' say Old Man Coyote , `` I never do , and I 've wonder about it a great deal . ''
Peter Rabbit almost forget that he be hide .
He be so eager to hear that story that he be right on the point of speak up and beg Ol ' Mistah Buzzard to tell it when he remember Old Man Coyote .
Just in the nick of time he clap a hand over his mouth .
It seem to Peter a long , long time before Old Man Coyote say : `` I 'd like to hear that story , Mr. Buzzard , if it be n't too much to ask of you . ''
`` Not at all , Brer Coyote ; not at all .
Ah 'll be mor 'n please to tell it to yo ' .
Ah cert ` nly will , '' say Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , and Peter settle himself comfortably to listen .
`` Yo ' see it be this way , '' begin Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Ah get it from mah gran ` daddy , and he get it from his gran ` daddy , and his gran ` daddy get it from -- '' `` I know , '' interrupt Old Man Coyote .
`` It be hand down from your greatest-great-grandfather , who live in the day when the world be young and what you be go to tell me about happen .
Is n't that it ? ''
`` Yes , Suh , '' reply Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Yes , Suh , that 's it .
Ol ' Mother Nature treat 'em all alike in those day .
She 's a right smart busy person , and she ai n't get no time fo ' to answer foolish question .
No , Suh , she ai n't .
So , quick a she get a new kind of critter make , she turn him loose and tell him if he want to live he get to be right smart and find out for hisself how to do it .
Ah reckons yo ' know all about that , Brer Coyote . ''
Old Man Coyote nod , and Ol ' Mistah Buzzard scratch his bald head gently a if try to stir up his memory .
Peter Rabbit almost squeal aloud in his impatience while he wait for Ol ' Mistah Buzzard to go on .
`` When Ol ' Mother Nature make Brer Trade Rat in the beginning and turn him loose in the Great World , he be just plain Mistah Rat and nothing more , same a his no ` count cousin , Robber the Brown Rat , '' continue Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
`` He have to win a name for hisself same a ev ` ybody else .
He have mighty sharp wit , have this Mistah Rat , and directly he find he have to shift for hisself he begin to study and study and study what he gwine to do to live well and be happy .
He watch his neighbor to see what they do , and it do n't take him long to find out that if he would be respect he must have a home .
Those without home be mostly no ` count folk , same a they be today .
`` So Brer Rat make a nest close to the trunk of a tree on the edge of the Green Forest , a soft , warm nest , and in collectin ' the stuff to make it of he learn the joy of bein ' busy .
Person ` ly , yo ' understand , Ah think he be all wrong .
Ah never be so happy a when Ah can take a sun-bath with nothin ' to do .
But Brer Rat be never so happy a when he be busy , and when he get that li'l nest finish time begin to hang heavy on his hand .
Yes , Suh , it cert ` nly do .
Just because he do n't have anything else to do he begin to add a little more to his house .
One day he step on a thorn .
` Ouch ! '
cry Brer Rat , and then right away forget the pain in a new idea .
He would cover his house with thorn , leavin ' just a little secret entrance for hisself !
Then he would be safe , wholly safe from his big neighbor , some of whom have begin to look at him with such a hungry look in their eye that they make him right smart uncomfortable .
So he spend his time , do Brer Rat , in huntin ' for the long and sharp thorn and in cuttin ' the branch on which they grow .
These he carry to his house and pile them around it and on it until it have become a great pile with sharp thorn stickin ' out in every direction , and the hungriest of the big people of the forest pass it at a respectful distance .
`` When Brer Rat have all the thorn he need and more , he begin to collect other thing and add these to his pile .
Yo ' see , he have find that it be great fun to collect thing ; to find the queer thing he could and bring them home and look at them and wonder about them .
So little by little his house become a sort of junk shop , the very first one in all the Great World .
Bright stone and shell , bone , anything that catch his bright eye and please them , he bring home .
When he be tire of huntin ' fo ' food or more strange thing he would sit and gloat over his treasure and play with them .
And then the first thing he know he have a name .
Yes , Suh , he have a name .
He be call Miser .
`` Of course Brer Miser have n't live ve ' y long befo ' he find out that one law of the Great World be that thing belong to whoever could get them and keep them .
He saw that some think themselves ve ' y smart when they steal from their neighbor .
Brer Miser do n't like this at all .
He be ve ` y , ye ' y honest , be Brer Miser .
Perhaps he be n't really much tempt , not fo ' a long time anyway .
`` But at last come a time when he be tempt .
Quite by accident he find one of Mr. Squirrel 's storehouse .
In it be some nut different from any he ever have see befo ' .
` Brer Squirrel wo n't mind if Ah taste just one , ' say he , and do it .
It taste good ; it taste ve ' y good indeed .
Brer Miser begin to wish he have some nut like those .
When he get home he could n't think of anything but how good those nut taste .
He know that all he have to do be to watch until Brer Squirrel be away and then go he ' p hisself .
He know that be just what any of his neighbor would do in his place .
But Brer Miser could n't make it seem just right any way he look at it .
He be too honest , be Brer Miser , to do anything like that .
`` He be sit star at his treasure but think about those nut when an idea pop into his head , an idea that make him smile until Ah reckons he most split his cheek .
` Ah know what Ah 'll do , ' say he .
` Ah 'll just he ' p mahself to some of those nut and Ah 'll leave something of mine in place of them .
That 's what Ah 'll do . '
`` And that 's what he do do .
He pick out a bright shell of which he be very fond and he leave it in Brer Squirrel 's storehouse to pay fo ' the nut that he take .
After that he always help himself to anything he want , but he always leave something to pay fo ' it .
It be n't long befo ' his neighbor find out what he be do , and then they call him Miser the Trade Rat .
Whenever anybody find something he do n't want hisself , he take it to the little junk shop of Miser the Trade Rat and trade it fo ' something else , or leave it where Miser would find it , know that Miser would leave something in it place .
`` And it 's be just so with Miser 's family ever since .
There be one Rat who be a credit to his family instead of a disgrace , '' conclude Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
III WHERE YAP-YAP THE PRAIRIE DOG USED HIS WITS Peter Rabbit have just have a great fright .
He be use to have great fright , but this time it be a different kind of a fright .
It be not for himself that he have be afraid but for one of his old friend and neighbor .
Now that it be over , Peter draw a little breath of sheer relief .
You see it be this way : Peter have start over for a call on Johnny Chuck .
When he reach Johnny Chuck 's house he find no one at home .
At first he think he would go look for Johnny , for he know that Johnny must be somewhere near , a he never go far from his own doorstep .
Then he change his mind and decide to wait for Johnny to return .
So he stretch himself out in some tall grass beside Johnny Chuck 's house , intend to jump out and give Johnny a scare when he come home .
Hardly have he settle himself when he hear Johnny come , and he know by the sound that Johnny be run from some danger .
Very , very carefully Peter raise his head to see .
Then he duck it again and hold his breath .
Johnny Chuck be run as Peter never have see him run before and with very good reason .
Just a few jump behind Johnny 's twinkle little black heel be Old Man Coyote .
It look to Peter a if Old Man Coyote certainly would catch Johnny Chuck this time .
He be so frightened for Johnny that he quite forget that he himself might be in danger .
Head first through his doorway plunge Johnny , and Old Man Coyote 's teeth snap together on nothing .
Old Man Coyote back away a few step and sit down with his head on one side a he study Johnny Chuck 's house in the ground .
It be plain to be see that he be try to make up his mind whether it would be worth while to try to dig Johnny out .
Presently Johnny come half-way up his long hall where he could look out .
Then he begin to scold Old Man Coyote .
Old Man Coyote grin .
`` I give up , Johnny Chuck , '' say he .
`` You do well when you make your home between the root of this old tree .
If it be n't for those root , I certainly would dig you out .
As it be you be safe .
You remind me very much of your cousin , Yap-Yap the Prairie Dog , who live out where I come from .
There 's a fellow who certainly know how to make a house in the ground .
He do n't have to depend on the root of tree to keep from be dig out .
Well , I guess it be a waste of time to hang around here .
You 'll make just as good a dinner some other time a you would now , so I 'll wait until then . ''
Old Man Coyote grin wickedly and trot off .
Now at the mention of Yap-Yap the Prairie Dog , the long ear of Peter Rabbit have prick up at once .
It be the first time he have hear of Yap-Yap , and when at last Johnny Chuck venture out Peter be a full of question a a pea-pod be of pea .
But Johnny Chuck know nothing about his cousin , Yap-Yap , and be n't even interested in him .
So finally Peter leave him and go back home to the dear Old Briar-patch .
But he could n't get Yap-Yap out of his mind , and he resolve that the first chance he get he would ask Old Man Coyote about him .
The chance come that very night .
Old Man Coyote come along by the dear Old Briar-patch and stop to peer in and grin at Peter .
Peter grin back , for he know that under those friendly bramble he be quite safe .
`` I hear what you say to Johnny Chuck about his cousin , Yap-Yap , '' say Peter .
Old Man Coyote look as surprised a he felt .
`` Where be you ? ''
he demand gruffly .
`` Lying flat in the grass close by Johnny Chuck 's house , '' reply Peter , and grin more broadly than ever .
`` And to think I do n't know it ! ''
sigh Old Man Coyote .
`` When I fail to catch Johnny Chuck , I think I have miss only one dinner , but it seem I miss two .
Next time I shall look around a little more sharply .
Do you know , the sight of Johnny Chuck always make me homesick , he remind me so much of his cousin , Yap-Yap , and the day when I be young . ''
`` I do n't know that Johnny Chuck have a cousin until you mention it , '' say Peter .
`` Does he look like Johnny ?
Wo n't you tell me about him , Mr. Coyote ? ''
`` Seeing that I have n't anything in particular to do , I do n't know but I will , '' reply Old Man Coyote , who happen to be feeling very good-natured .
`` Many and many a time I have chase Yap-Yap into his house .
Seems a if I can hear the rascal scolding me and call me names right this minute .
He use to get me so provoke that it be all I could do to keep from try to dig him out . ''
`` Why do n't you ? ''
ask Peter .
`` Because it would have mean a waste of time , sore foot , and nothing to show for my trouble , '' retort Old Man Coyote .
`` Yap-Yap never have forget what his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather learn when he first take to live on the open prairie . ''
`` What do he learn ?
Tell me about it , Mr. Coyote , '' beg Peter .
`` He learn to use his wit , '' reply Old Man Coyote , with a provoking grin .
`` He learn to use his wit , that 's all . ''
`` Please tell me about it , Mr. Coyote .
Please , '' beg Peter .
`` Once upon a time , '' begin Old Man Coyote , `` so my grandfather tell me , and he get it from his grandfather , who get it from his grandfather , who -- '' `` I know , '' interrupt Peter .
`` It happen in the day when the world be young . ''
Old Man Coyote look at Peter very hard a if he have half a mind not to tell the story , but Peter look so innocent and so eager that he begin again .
`` Once upon a time live the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Yap-Yap , the very first of all the Prairie Dogs , and his name be Yap-Yap too .
He be own cousin to old Mr. Woodchuck , who of course be n't old then , and the two cousin look much alike , save that Yap-Yap be a little small than Mr. Woodchuck and perhaps a little smarter look .
`` From the very begin Yap-Yap be a keen lover of the great open space .
Trees be all very well for those who like them , but he prefer to have nothing above him but the blue , blue sky .
It seem to him that he never could find a big enough open space , so he never stay very long in any one place , but keep push on and on , look for a spot in the Great World that would just suit him .
At last he come to the edge of the Green Forest , and before him , as far a he could see , stretch the Green Meadows .
At least it be like the Green Meadows , only a million thousand time as big a the Green Meadows we be on now , Peter , and be really the Great Prairie .
`` Yap-Yap look and look , then he draw a long breath of pure joy and start out across the green grass .
On and on he go , until when he sit up and look this way or that way or the other way he could see nothing but grass and flower , and over him be naught but the blue , blue sky .
He have find the great open space of which he have dream , and he be happy .
So he eat and sleep and play with the Merry Little Breezes and grow fat .
`` Then one day come Skimmer the Swallow and bring him news of the hard time which have come to the rest of the Great World and how a a result the big and the strong be hunt the small and the weak in order that they themselves might live .
When Skimmer have go , Yap-Yap grow uneasy .
What if some of the big and strong people he have know should come out there in quest of food and should find him ?
There be no place in which to hide .
There be no cave or hollow log .
`` Yap-Yap look at the strong claw Old Mother Nature have give him and an idea come to him .
He would dig a hole in the ground .
So he dig a hole on a long slant very much like the hole of Johnny Chuck ; but when it be finish a little doubt creep into his head and grow and grow .
What be to prevent some one who be very hungry from dig him out ?
So he move on a little way and start another hole , and this time he make it almost straight down .
Every day he make that hole deep until it be many foot deep .
Then he make a turn in it and dig a long tunnel , at the end of which he hollow out a comfortable bedroom and line it with grass .
When it be finish he be quite satisfied . '' '
I do n't believe , ' say he , ` that any one will have the patience to dig to the bottom of this . '
`` So at night he sleep in his bed at the end of his long hall far below the surface , but all day he spend above ground , for he dearly love the sunshine .
All go well until there come a time of heavy rain .
Then Yap-Yap discover that the water run down his hole , and if he do n't do something , he be likely to be drown out .
Right away he set his sharp wit to work .
He notice that when the water on the surface reach the little pile of sand he have make , it run around them .
So he make a great mound of sand around his hole with the entrance in the middle and press it firm on the inside so that the rain would not wash it down in .
Then , although the water stand all around , it no longer run down in his house .
In fair weather that mound be a splendid place on which to sit and watch for danger .
So once more Yap-Yap be happy and care-free , all because he have use his wit .
`` And from that day to this the Prairie Dogs have make their house in just that way , and no one that I know care to try to dig one out , '' conclude Old Man Coyote .
IV WHERE YELLOW-WING GOT HIS LIKING FOR THE GROUND Peter Rabbit be hop along on the edge of the Green Meadows , look for a new patch of sweet clover .
It be very beautiful that morning , and Peter be in the best of spirit .
It be good just to be alive .
Every once in a while Peter would jump up and kick his long heel together just from pure happiness .
He be so happy that he do n't pay particular attention to where he be go or what be about him .
The result be that Peter get a fright .
Right from under his very nose something spring out of the grass so suddenly and so wholly unexpectedly that Peter very nearly tumble over backward .
He make two long jump off to one side and then turn to see what have startle him so .
But all he saw be an old feathered acquaintance head towards the Old Orchard .
He seem to bind along through the air much a Peter bound along over the ground when he be in a hurry .
It be Yellow-Wing the Flicker .
Peter grin and look a little foolish .
He felt a little foolish .
You know it always make you feel foolish to be frighten when there be nothing to be afraid of .
Peter watch Yellow-Wing until he disappear among the tree of the Old Orchard , from which presently his voice sound clear and loud , and in it there be a mocking note a if Yellow-Wing be laugh at him .
Peter suspect that he be .
But Peter be feel too happy to mind be laugh at .
In fact , he chuckle himself .
It be something of a joke to be frighten by one who be so wholly harmless .
Peter recall how many time he have frighten other people and think it the best of joke .
Peter go on until he find a new patch of sweet clover .
Then he forget all about Yellow-Wing .
He be too busy fill that big stomach of his to think of anything else .
When he could n't find room for another leaf of clover he go home to the dear Old Briar-patch , and there in his favorite spot he settle himself to rest and think or dream a the case might be .
Presently his thought return to Yellow-Wing , and he chuckle again at the memory of his fright that morning .
And then for the first time it strike Peter a queer that Yellow-Wing should have be out there on the Green Meadows on the ground .
He often have see Yellow-Wing on the ground , but until that moment there never have seem anything queer about that .
Now , however , it suddenly come to Peter that Yellow-Wing belong in tree , not on the ground .
Peter scratch his long left ear with his long left hind foot , which be a sign that he be think of something that puzzle him .
`` He belong to the Woodpecker family , '' think Peter , `` and never have I see any of his relative on the ground .
They get all their food in the tree .
Now why be Yellow-Wing so different from his relative ? ''
The more Peter think about it , the queerer it seem that a Woodpecker should spend so much time on the ground , or visit the ground at all , for that matter .
But just wonder about it do n't get him anywhere , and at last Peter decide that the only way to find out would be to ask question .
So Peter make up his mind to watch for Yellow-Wing and ask him all about it the first chance he get .
The chance come the very next day in the very same place where Peter have be so startled .
This time he be on the watch and saw Yellow-Wing very busy about something .
Peter steal up within speak distance .
`` Good morning , Yellow-Wing , '' say he .
`` I wonder if you will tell me something . ''
It be Yellow-Wing 's turn to be startle , for he have not see Peter approach .
He half lift his wing to fly , but when he saw who it be , he change his mind .
`` It all depend on what it be you want me to tell you , '' he reply rather shortly .
`` It be just this , '' reply Peter .
`` Why do you spend so much time on the ground ? ''
`` That 's easily answer , '' laugh Fellow-Wing .
`` I do it because it be the easy way to get enough to eat . ''
Peter look as surprised a he felt .
`` I think that all your family get their living in the tree ! ''
he exclaim .
`` All do but me , '' reply Yellow-Wing a wee bit testily .
`` But I do n't have to do what they do just because they do it .
No , Siree , I 'm independent !
Do you like ant , Peter ? ''
`` What ? ''
exclaim Peter .
`` I ask if you like ant , '' repeat Yellow-Wing .
`` I 've never try them , '' Peter reply , `` but I 've hear Old Mr. Toad say they be very nice . ''
`` They be , '' say Yellow-Wing .
`` They be more than nice -- they be de-li-cious .
It be because of them that I spend so much time on the ground .
Ants change the habit of the Flicker branch of the Woodpecker family .
I would n't be surprised if we become regular ground bird one of these day . ''
Peter look puzzle .
He keep turn it over in his mind a he watch Yellow-Wing plunge his long stout bill into an ant hill and then gobble up the ant a they come rush out to see what the trouble be .
`` I do n't see how ant could change the habit of anybody , '' he venture after a while .
Yellow-Wing 's eye twinkle .
`` Why do n't you learn to eat them ? ''
he demand .
`` If you would , they might change your habit .
The beginning of the change in the habit of my folk begin a long time ago . ''
`` Way back in the beginning of thing , when the world be young ? ''
ask Peter .
`` No , not quite so far back a that , '' reply Yellow-Wing .
`` Great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather , who be the first Flicker , be , of course , a member of the Woodpecker family , and he get his living in regular Woodpecker fashion .
It never enter his head to look for food anywhere but in the tree , and I do n't suppose that it ever enter his head to set foot on the ground .
It be the same with his child and his child 's child for a long time .
`` But though they live a true Woodpeckers should , the Flickers always be a bit sharper-witted and more independent than most of their relative .
For one thing they have discover that ant be fine eating and that great number of them be to be find run up and down the trunk of certain tree .
So the Flickers use to look for these tree and feast on the ant .
It save a lot of labor .
A stomachful of ant could be pick from the trunk of a tree in the time it would take to dig out one worm in the wood , to say nothing of the saving of hard work .
`` One day a few year ago my great-great-great-grandfather , so the story go , have stuff himself with ant from the trunk of a tree and have settle himself for a rest .
From where he sit he could see a procession of ant go up and down the tree , and he get to wonder where they all come from and where they all go to .
So he watch and presently discover that that double line of ant lead out along the ground from the foot of the tree .
This make him still more curious and he follow it , fly along just over it .
He have go but a short distance when he come to a little mound of sand , and there the line of ant end .
Grandfather Flicker fly up in a tree from which he could look right down on that mound , and it do n't take him long to discover that those ant be go in and out of little hole in that mound . ''
` As I live , that must be their home ! '
exclaim he .
` That place be alive with them .
What a place to fill one 's stomach !
I never be on the ground in my life , but the next time I 'm hungry , I 'm go to see what the ground be like .
I wo n't have to stay on it long to get my dinner here . '
`` Grandfather Flicker be as good a his word .
When he be ready for another meal , he fly down to that ant hill .
He find that when he plunge his bill into it , the ant fairly pour out to see what be happen , and all he have to do be to thrust out his long sticky tongue and lick them up .
Never in all his life before have he fill his stomach so easily .
After that , instead of waste time hunt for worm and insect in the tree where he could find only one at a time , Grandfather Flicker keep his eye open for ant hill on the ground .
He teach his child to do the same thing .
That be the beginning of the change of habit with the Flickers .
Ever since we have spend more and more time on the ground , so that now we feel quite at home there .
We still get some of our food in the tree by way of variety , and we make our home there , but a good big part of our food we get just a I be do now . ''
With this Yellow-Wing once more plunge his bill into the ant hill and lick up a dozen ant who have come rush out to see what be go on .
And so once more the curiosity of Peter Rabbit be satisfy , and he have learn something .
V WHERE LITTLE CHIEF LEARNED TO MAKE HAY No one in all the Great World think more of the present and less of the future than do careless , happy-go-lucky Peter Rabbit .
Everybody who know Peter at all know that Peter do n't waste any time worrying over what may happen in a day that may never be .
So Peter be n't thrifty a be Happy Jack Squirrel and Chatterer the Red Squirrel and Whitefoot the Wood Mouse and Paddy the Beaver and Striped Chipmunk .
`` I 've get enough to eat today , and enough be enough , so what be the use of work when I do n't have to ? ''
say Peter .
`` I do n't believe in work today so that I wo n't have to work tomorrow , because when tomorrow come there may be no need of work , and then I would feel that I have waste all this good time today . ''
No , Peter be n't the least bit thrifty .
It be the same way with Peter 's big cousin , Jumper the Hare .
The truth be the whole family be happy-go-lucky .
Happy Jack Squirrel say that every bless one of them be shiftless .
It do look that way .
It be a pity that Peter and Jumper never have learn a lesson from Little Chief Hare , who be commonly suppose to be a relative of theirs , although , a a matter of fact , he be neither a Hare nor a Rabbit , but be a Pika , which be another family altogether .
He be also call a Coney and sometimes the Calling Hare .
But if you want sure-enough proof that he be neither a Rabbit nor a Hare , just watch him , if you be lucky enough to have a chance , cut and dry and store away a great pile of hay for winter use .
No true member of Peter 's family ever would think of do such a thing a that , more be the pity .
Peter never have see Little Chief , because Little Chief live high up on a mountain of the Far West among the rock where Peter would never go , even if he could , but he have hear all about him .
Old Man Coyote tell him all about him , and he get the story from his grandfather , who get it from his grandfather , who have one time visit the great mountain where Little Chief 's ever-so-great-grandfather live in the very place where Little Chief life now .
Old Man Coyote have chase Peter into the dear Old Briar-patch one cold winter day , and a he peer through the bramble at Peter he notice that Peter be very thin , very thin indeed .
Old Man Coyote grin .
`` I 'm just as well pleased not to have catch you this time , Peter , '' say he .
`` You would n't make much of a dinner just now .
When I dine I want something more than skin and bone .
It must be that you be have a hard work a I be to get a living these day . ''
`` I be , '' reply Peter .
`` With all this snow and ice on the ground , there be nothing to eat but bark and such tender twig a I can reach , and they be not very fill .
But they 'll keep me alive until good time come , and then perhaps I 'll get fat enough to suit you . ''
It be Peter 's turn to grin .
Old Man Coyote grin back good-naturedly .
`` I should think , Peter , '' say he , `` that when there be so much sweet grass and clover in the summer , you would make some of it into hay and store it away for winter , a Little Chief Hare do .
There 's the thrifty little hay-maker for you ! ''
`` Who be Little Chief , and where do he learn to make hay ? ''
demand Peter , his ear stand straight up with curiosity .
Old Man Coyote like to tell a story once in a while , and have nothing else to do just then , he sit down just outside the dear Old Briar-patch and tell Peter all about Little Chief and his hay-making .
`` Of course , '' say he , `` Little Chief 's father teach him how to make hay , and his father 's father teach him , and so on way back to the day when the world be young and Old Mother Nature make the first Pika or Coney , whichever you please to call him , and set him free on a great mountain to prove whether he be worthy to live or be so helpless that there be no place for him in the Great World .
Now Mr. Pika , who be promptly call Little Chief , no one remember now just why , be exactly like Little Chief of today .
He be just about a fourth as big a you , Peter .
In fact , he look a lot like one of your baby , except his leg and his ear .
His leg be short and rather weak , and his ear be short and round .
He be very gentle and timid .
He have neither the kind of teeth and claw for fight nor long leg for run away , and it do seem a if Little Chief 's chance of a long life and a happy one be very slim indeed , especially a it happen that he be set free to shift for himself just at the beginning of the hard time , when the big and strong have begin to hunt the small and weak .
`` For a while Little Chief have a hard time of it and so many narrow escape that his heart be in his mouth most of the time .
In try to keep out of the way of his enemy he keep climb high and high up the mountain , for the high he get the few enemy he find .
At last he come to a big rock-slide above where the tree grow , and where there be nothing but broken stone and big rock .
The sun lay there very warm , and Little Chief creep out among the stone to take a sun-bath ; a he squat there it would have take keen eye indeed to tell him from a stone himself , though he do n't know this .
`` After he have have a good rest , and jolly Mr. Sun have move so that Little Chief be no longer in the warm ray , Little Chief decide to look about a little .
It do n't take him long to discover that there be wonderful little wind gallery and hiding-places down among the stone .
These lead to little crack and cave deep down in the mountain side .
Little Chief be tickle almost to death . ''
` This be the place for me ! '
he cry .
` No one ever will think to look for me up here , and if they should they could n't find me , for no one , not even King Bear , could pull away these stone fast enough to catch me .
All day long I can enjoy the sun , and at night I can sleep in perfect safety in one of these little cave . '
`` So Little Chief make his home in the rock-slide high up on the mountain and be happy , for it be just a he think it would be -- no one thought of look in that bare place for him .
For food he eat the pea vine and grass and other green thing that grow just at the edge of the rock-slide and be perfectly happy .
One day he decide he would take some of his dinner into his little cave and eat it there .
So he cut a little bundle of pea vine and other green thing .
He leave his little bundle on a flat rock in the sun while he go to look for something else and then forget all about it .
It do n't enter his head again until a few day later he happen along by that flat rock and discover that little bundle .
The pea vine and grass be quite dry , just like the hay Farmer Brown 's boy help his father store away in the barn every summer . '' '
I guess I do n't want to eat that , ' say Little Chief , ` but it will make me a very nice bed . '
So he carry it home and make a bed of it .
There be n't quite enough , so the next day he cut some more and carry it home at once .
But this , be green , soon sour and smell so badly that he be force to take it out and throw it away .
That set him to think .
Why be the first he have bring in so dry and sweet and pleasant ?
Why do n't it spoil a the other have do ?
He cut some more and spread it out on the big flat rock and once again he forget .
When he remember and go to look at it two or three day later , he find it just like the first , dry and sweet and very pleasant to smell .
This he take home to add to his bed .
Then he take home some more that be green , and this spoiled just a the other have do .
`` Little Chief be puzzle over this a he squat on a rock take a sun-bath .
The sun be very warm and comforting .
After a while the rock on which he sit grow almost hot .
Little Chief have bring along a couple of piece of pea vine on which to lunch , but not be hungry he leave them beside him on the rock .
By and by he happen to glance at them .
They have wilt and already they be begin to dry .
An idea pop into his funny little head . ''
` It 's the sun that do it ! '
he cry .
`` Up he jump and scamper away to cut some more and spread it out on the rock .
Then he discover that the pea vine which he spread in the sun dry a he want it to , while any that happen to be leave in the shadow of a rock do n't dry so well .
He have learn how to make hay .
He be the first hay-maker in the Great World .
He soon have more than enough for a bed , but he keep on make hay and store it away just for fun .
Then come cold weather and all the green thing die .
There be no food for Little Chief .
He hunt and hunt , but there be nothing .
Then because he be so hungry he begin to nibble at his hay .
It taste good , very good indeed .
It taste almost as good a the fresh green thing .
Little Chief 's heart give a great leap .
He have food in plenty !
He have nothing to worry about , for his hay would last him until the green thing come again , a come they would , he felt sure .
`` And so it prove .
And that be how Little Chief the Pika learn to make hay while the sun shone in the day of plenty .
He teach his child and they teach their child , and Little Chief of today do it just a his great-great-ever-so-great-grand-daddy do .
I do n't see why you do n't do the same thing , Peter .
You would make me a great deal finer dinner if you do . ''
`` Perhaps that be the reason I do n't , '' reply Peter with a grin .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Little Chief 's father teach him how to make hay . ''
Page 67 .
-RSB- VI WHERE GLUTTON THE WOLVERINE GOT HIS NAME Glutton the Wolverine be a dweller in the depth of the Great Forests of the Far North , and it be doubtful if Peter Rabbit would ever have know that there be such a person but for his acquaintance with Honker the Goose , who spend his summer in the Far North , but each spring and fall stop over for a day or two in a little pond in the Green Forest , a pond Peter often visit .
This acquaintance with Honker and Peter 's everlasting curiosity have result in many strange story .
At least they have seem strange to Peter because they have be about furred and feather people whom Peter have never see .
And one of the strange of these be the story of how Glutton the Wolverine get his name .
Of course you know what a glutton be .
It be one who be very , very , very greedy and eats and eats a if eating be the only thing in life worth while .
It be one who be all the time thinking of his stomach .
No one like to be call a glutton .
So when Honker the Goose happen to mention Glutton , it cause Peter to prick up his ear at once .
`` Who 's a glutton ? ''
he demand .
`` I do n't say any one be a glutton , '' reply Honker .
`` I be speak of Glutton the Wolverine who live in the Great Forests of the Far North , and whom everybody hat . ''
`` Is Glutton his name ? ''
ask Peter , wrinkle his brow in perplexity , for it seem a very queer name for any one .
`` Certainly , '' reply Honker .
`` Certainly that be his name , and a very good name for him it be .
But then of course it be because he be a glutton that he be name Glutton .
Rather I should say that be the reason the first Wolverine be name Glutton .
The name have be hand down ever since , and it fit Mr. Wolverine of today quite as well a ever it do his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather . ''
`` Tell me about it , '' Peter beg .
`` Please tell me about it . ''
`` Tell you about what ? ''
ask Honker , pretend not to understand .
`` About how the first Wolverine get the name of Glutton , '' reply Peter promptly .
`` There must have be a very good reason , and if there be a very good reason , there must be a story .
Please , Honker , tell me all about it . ''
Honker swim a little way out from shore , and with head hold high and very still , he look and listen and listen and look until he be quite certain that no danger lurk near .
Then he swim back to where Peter be sit on the bank .
`` Peter , '' say he , `` I never in all my born day have see such a fellow for question a you be .
If I live about here , I think I should swim away every time I saw you come .
But a I only stop here for a day or two twice a year , I guess I can stand it .
Besides , you really ought to know something about some of the people who live in the Great Forest .
It be shameful , Peter , that you should be so ignorant .
And so if you will promise not to ask for another story while I be here , I will tell you about Glutton the Wolverine . ''
Of course Peter promise .
He want that story so much that he would have promise anything .
So Honker tell the story , and here it be just a Peter hear it .
`` Once upon a time long , long , long ago , the first Wolverine be send out to find a place for himself in the Great World just a every one else have be send out .
Old Mother Nature have tell him that he be relate to Mr. Weasel and Mr. Mink and Mr. Fisher and Mr . Skunk , but no one would have guess it just to look at him .
In fact , some of his new neighbor be incline to think that he be relate to Old King Bear .
Certainly he look more like King Bear than he do like little Mr. Weasel .
But for his bushy tail he would have look still more like a member of the Bear family .
He be clumsy-looking .
He be rather slow moving , but he be strong , very strong for his size .
And he have a mean disposition .
Yes , Sir , Mr. Wolverine have a mean disposition .
He have such a mean disposition that he would snarl at his own reflection in a pool of water .
`` Now you know as well a I do that no one with a mean disposition have any friend .
It be so with Mr. Wolverine .
When his neighbor find out what a mean disposition he have , they let him severely alone .
They would go out of their way to avoid meeting him .
This make his disposition all the meaner .
He do n't really care because his neighbor would have nothing to do with him .
No , he do n't really care , for the simple reason that he do n't want anything to do with them .
But just the same it make him angry to have them show that they do n't want to have anything to do with him .
Every time he would see one of them turn aside to avoid meeting him , he would snarl under his breath , and his eye would glow with anger ; he would resolve to get even .
`` Being slow in his movement because of his stout build , he early realize that he must make nimble wit make up for the lack of nimble leg .
He also learn very early in life that patience be a virtue few posse , and that patience and nimble wit will accomplish almost anything .
So , live alone in the Great Forest , he practise patience until no one in all the Great World could be more patient than he .
No one know this because , you see , everybody keep away from him .
And all the time he be practise patience , he be study and study the other people of the Great Forest , both large and small , learn all their habit , how they live , where they live , what they eat , and all about them . ''
` One never know when such knowledge may be useful , ' he would say to himself .
` The more I know about other people and the less they know about me the good . '
`` So Mr. Wolverine keep out of sight as much a possible , and none know how he live or where he live or anything about him save that he have a mean disposition .
Patiently he watch the other people , especially those of nimble wit who live largely by their cunning and cleverness -- Mr. Fox , Mr. Coyote , Mr. Lynx and his own cousin , Mr. Mink and Mr. Weasel .
From each one he learn something , and at last he be more cunning and more clever than any of them or even than all of them , for that matter .
`` Living alone a he do , and have a mean disposition , he grow more and more sullen and savage until those who at first have avoid him simply because of his mean disposition now keep out of his way through fear , for his claw be long and his strength be great and his teeth be sharp .
It do n't take him long to discover that there be few who do not fear him , and he cunningly contrive to increase this fear , for he have a feeling that the time might come when it would be of use to him .
`` The time do come .
As you know , there come a time when food be scarce , and everybody , or almost everybody , have hard work to get enough to keep alive .
Mr. Wolverine do n't .
The fact be , Mr. Wolverine live very well indeed .
He simply reap the reward of his patience in learn all about the way of his neighbor , of his nimble wit and of the fear which he inspire .
Instead of hunt for food himself , he depend on his neighbor to hunt for him .
They do n't know they be hunt for him , but somehow whenever one of them have secure a good meal , Mr. Wolverine be almost sure to happen along .
A growl from him be enough , and that meal be leave in his possession .
`` Knowing how scarce food be and the uncertainty of when he would get the next meal , Mr. Wolverine always make it a point on these occasion to stuff himself until it be a wonder his skin do n't burst .
If there be more than he could eat , he would take a nap right there , and because of fear of him the rightful owner of the food would not dare take what be leave .
When he awake Mr. Wolverine would finish what remain .
`` Those who secure more food than they could eat and try to store away the rest find that no matter how cunningly they choose a hiding-place for it and cover their track , Mr. Wolverine be sure to find it .
In fact , he make a business of rob storehouse , and the habit of greediness become so strong that he would stuff himself at one storehouse and immediately start for another .
When it do happen that he could n't eat all he find and yet do n't want to stay until he could finish it , he would tear to bits all that remain and scatter it all about .
You know I tell you he have a mean disposition .
`` Even when good time return and there be no possible excuse for such greed , Mr. Wolverine continue to stuff himself until it seem that instead of eat in order to live , a the rest of u do , he live in order to eat .
Of course it be n't long before some one call him a glutton , and presently he be name Glutton , and no one call him anything else .
Glutton by name and a glutton in habit he remain as long a he live .
Both name and habit he hand down to his child and they to their child .
So it be that today there be no more cunning thief , no greedier rascal , and no one with a meaner disposition in all the Great Woods of the Far North than Glutton the Wolverine . ''
`` Queer how a habit will stick , be n't it ? ''
say Peter thoughtfully .
`` Particularly a bad habit , '' add Honker .
VII WHERE OLD MRS. ` GATOR MADE THE FIRST INCUBATOR Peter Rabbit and Mrs. Quack the Mallard Duck be great friend .
They have be great friend ever since Peter try to help Mrs. Quack when she and Mr. Quack have spend a whole summer on a little pond hidden deep in the Green Forest because Mr. Quack have a broken wing and so he and Mrs. Quack simply could n't keep on to their home in the Far North for which they have start .
During that long summer Peter have become very well acquaint with them .
In fact he visit them very often , for a you know , Peter be simply brim over with curiosity , and there be wonderful thing which Mr. and Mrs. Quack could tell him , for they be great traveler .
Now once , a Mrs. Quack be tell Peter about the far-away Southland where she and Mr. Quack and many other bird spend each winter , she mention Old Ally the ` Gator .
People who live where he do call him just ` Gator , but you and I would call him Alligator .
At the mention of Old Ally , all Peter 's curiosity be awaken , for Mrs. Quack have say that foolish young duck sometimes mistake him for an old log float in the water and do n't find out the difference until his great mouth fly open and he swallow them whole .
At that Peter 's eye threaten to pop right out of his head and every time he visit that little pond he pester Mrs. Quack with question about Old Ally the ` Gator and Mrs. ` Gator .
It seem a if he could n't think of anything else .
And when Mrs. Quack just happen to mention that little ` Gators be hatch from egg just a her own child be , it be almost too much for Peter to believe .
`` What ? ''
he squeal , hop up and down in excitement .
`` Do you mean to tell me that anything as big a Old Ally , big enough to swallow you whole , can come from an egg ?
I do n't believe it !
Besides , only bird lay egg . ''
`` Quack , quack , quack , quack , quack , quack , quack , Peter , you must take that back ! ''
cried Mrs. Quack .
`` Why must I take it back ? ''
demand Peter .
`` Because as usual you 've let your tongue run loose , and that be a bad habit , Peter .
It certainly be a bad habit .
How about the Snake family ? ''
`` Oh ! ''
say Peter , look very foolish .
`` I forget all about the Snakes .
They do lay egg . ''
`` And how about Spotty the Turtle ?
Did n't he come from an egg ? ''
persist Mrs. Quack .
Peter look more foolish than before , if that be possible .
`` Y-e-s , '' he reply slowly and reluctantly .
`` Then do n't be so quick to doubt a thing just because you 've never see it , '' retort Mrs. Quack .
`` I 've see Mrs. ` Gator build her nest more than once , and I 've see her egg , and I 've see the baby ` Gators ; and what be more , I 'm not in the habit of tell thing that I do n't know be so . ''
`` I beg your pardon , Mrs. Quack . ''
Peter be very humble .
`` I do indeed .
Please forgive me .
Is -- be Mrs. ` Gator 's nest at all like yours ? ''
Peter seem so truly sorry for have doubt her that Mrs. Quack recover her good nature at once .
`` No , '' say she , `` it be n't .
If I have n't see her make it , I would n't have know it be a nest .
You see , one spring I get hurt so that I could n't take my usual long journey to the Far North and have to spend the summer way down in the Southland where I always live in the winter , and that be how I happen to learn about Mrs. ` Gator 's nest and egg and a lot of other thing .
Mrs. ` Gator be lazy , but she be smart .
She 's smart enough to make Mr. Sun do her work .
What do you think of that ? ''
Right away Peter be all excitement .
You see , that sound a if there might be a story behind it .
`` I never have hear of such a thing ! ''
he cry .
`` How do she learn to do such a smart thing a that ?
Of course I do n't for a minute believe that she herself discover a way to get Mr. Sun to work for her .
Probably it be her ever-so-great-grandmother who first do it .
Is n't that so , Mrs. Quack ? ''
Mrs. Quack nod .
`` You 've guess it , Peter , '' say she .
`` It all happen way , way back in the day when the world be young . ''
`` Tell me about it !
Please , please tell me about it , Mrs. Quack , and the first chance I get , I 'll do something for you , '' beg Peter .
Mrs. Quack carefully go over all her feather to see that every one be in place , for she be very particular about how she look .
When she be quite satisfied , she turn to Peter , fidget on the bank .
`` Way back in the day when the world be young , '' say she , `` Old Mother Nature make the first Alligators before she make the first bird , or the first animal , so Old Ally and Mrs. ` Gator , who live way down south now , belong to a very old family and be proud of it .
In the beginning of thing there be very little dry land , a you may have hear , so old Mr. and Mrs. ` Gator , who of course be not old then , be make to live in the water with the fish .
Old Mother Nature be experiment then .
She be plan to make a great deal more land , and she want live creature on it , so she give the ` Gators leg and foot instead of fin , and lung to breathe air instead of gill for breathe in the water a fish do .
Then , have many other thing to attend to , she tell them they would have to take care of themselves , and go about her business .
`` It do n't take Mr. and Mrs. ` Gator long to discover that their leg be not of much use in the water , for they use their powerful tail for swimming .
Then one day Mrs. ` Gator crawl out on land and right away discover what those leg be for .
She could go on dry land while fish could not .
It do n't take her long to find out that nothing be quite so fine a a sun-bath , a she lay stretch out on the bank , so she and Mr. ` Gator spend most of their time on sunny day take sun-baths .
`` One day Old Mother Nature come along and whisper a wonderful secret to Mrs. ` Gator . '
I be go to give you some egg , ' whisper Old Mother Nature , ` some egg of your very own , and if you watch over them and keep them warm , out of each one a baby ` Gator will some day creep .
But if you let those egg get cold , there will be no baby .
Do n't forget that you must keep them warm . '
`` Old Mother Nature be as good a her word .
She give Mrs. ` Gator twenty beautiful white egg , and Mrs. ` Gator be perfectly happy .
Those egg be the most precious thing in all the Great World .
It seem a if she never would grow tired of look at them and admire them and of dreaming of the day when her baby should come out of them .
It be very pleasant to lie there in the sun and dream of the baby to come from those wonderful egg .
Suddenly , right into the midst of those pleasant dream , break the memory of what Old Mother Nature have say about keep those egg warm .
All in a twinkling happiness be turn to worry . ''
` What can I do ?
What can I do ? '
Mrs. ` Gator keep say over and over .
` However can I keep them warm when Mr. Sun go to bed at night ?
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
My beautiful egg never , never will turn to darling baby !
What can I do ? '
`` All this time Mr. ` Gator be a great deal more interested in make himself comfortable than he be in those egg .
He have pick out a place where all day long Mr. Sun pour down his warm ray , and he have dug a place to sprawl out in comfortably .
The sand he have throw in a pile at one side .
When Mrs. ` Gator go to consult Mr. ` Gator about those precious egg and her worry when the cool of even have come , she happen to put one foot in that loose pile of sand , and she find that while the sand on the outside be already cool , that down inside the pile be still warm .
A clever idea come to her like a flash .
`` First she send Mr. ` Gator into the water to get his supper .
Then she scoop a hole in that pile of warm sand , and in it she put her precious egg and carefully cover them up with sand .
When this be do she stretch out close by to keep watch and see that nothing disturb those treasure .
That be a very anxious night for Mrs. ` Gator .
The sand on which she lay grow very cool .
When at last day come and Mr. Sun once more begin to shine , she open that pile of sand and great be her joy to find that inside it be still warm .
When Mr. ` Gator come crawl out of the water to spend the day in that comfortable bed he have dug , she chase him away and be so cross that he go off grumbling and dig another bed .
Mrs. ` Gator wait until Mr. Sun have make the sand very warm indeed , and then she make a great mound of it , and in the middle of it be her precious egg .
Night and day she keep guard , and all the time she worry l those egg should not be warm enough .
Then one day twenty baby ` Gators dig their way out of that mound of sand .
Yes , Sir , they do .
`` All this happen long , long ago when the world be young , and ever since then ` Gators have live only way down south , where it be very warm and where Mr. Sun will hatch their egg for them .
And today it be do just a I 've tell you , for I 've see with my own eye Mrs. ` Gator build her nest , cover her egg , and then lie around while Mr. Sun do the work for her .
What do you think of that ? ''
`` I think that if you have n't tell me that you have see it with your own eye , Mrs. Quack , I should think it a fairy story , '' reply Peter .
VIII WHERE MR. QUACK GOT HIS WEBBED FEET Twice every year , in the early spring and in the late fall , Peter Rabbit watch the Smiling Pool with a great deal of eagerness .
Can you guess why ?
It be because two very good friend of Peter 's be in the habit of stop there for a few day for rest and refreshment before continue the long journey which they be oblige to make .
They be Mr. and Mrs. Quack , the Mallard Ducks .
Peter be very fond of them , and when the time for their arrival draw near , Peter watch for them with a great deal of anxiety .
You see they have tell him something of the terrible danger which they always encounter on these long journey , and so Peter be always afraid that something terrible may have happen to them , and it be a great relief when he find them swim about in the Smiling Pool .
One reason Peter be so fond of Mr. and Mrs. Quack be because they always have a story for him .
Sometimes it be a story of adventure , a tale of terrible danger and narrow escape .
Sometimes it be about their home in the far Northland , and again it be about the wonderful Southland where they spend the winter .
But the story that Peter like best be the one about where and how the Quack family get their funny , webbed foot .
Mr. Quack do n't think those foot funny at all , but Peter do .
He never grow tire of watch Mr. and Mrs. Quack use them , because , you know , they be use so differently from other foot .
And always he go back to the dear Old Briar-patch with renew admiration for the wisdom of Old Mother Nature .
Peter notice those foot the first time he meet Mr. and Mrs. Quack .
He could n't help but notice them .
It happen that Mr. and Mrs. Quack be out on the bank of the Smiling Pool a Peter come hurry over in his usual way , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
They hear him come and not know at first who it be they at once start for the water .
Peter never will forget the funny way in which they waddle .
He never have see anybody quite so awkward .
But when they reach the water he forget to laugh .
He simply star open-mouthed in astonishment .
You see there they be as graceful a they have be awkward on land .
Afterward , when Peter have become acquaint with them and they be the best of friend , he venture to speak of their queer foot .
`` Do you know , '' say he , `` you have the most interesting foot of anybody I know of .
They be so broad that the first time I saw them I could n't believe my own eye .
I do n't suppose anybody have such broad foot .
I suppose there be some special reason why they be so broad and why your leg be so short .
Do you know how Mother Nature happen to give you foot so different from the foot of other bird , Mr. Quack ? ''
Mr. Quack chuckle .
`` I tell you what it be , Peter , '' say he , `` if you 'll tell me why it be you have such long hind leg and such a funny short tail , I 'll tell you why it be that Mrs. Quack and I have such broad foot , though I must confess that I do n't see anything odd about them . ''
Peter agree at once .
He tell Mr. and Mrs. Quack all about what happen to his grandfather a thousand time remove , the very first Rabbit , way back when the world be young , and how ever since then all Rabbits have have long hind leg and short tail .
When he have finish Mr. Quack thoughtfully scratch his handsome green head , look at his reflection in the Smiling Pool to make sure that he be look his very best , look behind to see that the feather in the tip of his tail have the proper curl , and then gaze off over the Green Meadows with a far-away look in his eye a if he be look way back to the time he be to tell about .
At last , just a Peter Rabbit be begin to lose patience Mr. Quack begin .
`` It must be , Peter , '' say he , `` that my great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather live just about the same time a your great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather , way back in the day when the world be young .
Perhaps they know each other .
Perhaps they be acquaint just a you and I be now .
Anyway , accord to what have be hand down in the family , Grandfather Quack be very much such a look fellow a I be now , except in the matter of his bill and foot .
His bill be not broad like mine but more like the bill of other bird , and his foot be like the foot of Mr. Grouse and Bob White .
They be make for scratching , and there be nothing between the toe .
You see , Old Mother Nature be experiment .
She make everybody a little different from everybody else and then start them forth in the Great World to shift for themselves and to find out what they really need that they have n't get .
`` Old Mr. Quack , my great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather , soon discover one thing , and that be that his leg be too short for him to get around very fast .
When he walk , everybody laugh at him .
When he try to run , they laugh hard than ever .
He do n't mind this so very much , though he do a little .
Nobody like to be laugh at , especially when it be because of something they can not help .
But what he do mind be the fact that his neighbor could run about so much fast than he that they get all the best of the food , and quite often he go hungry .
`` One day he happen to be sit on the bank of the Smiling Pool , think the matter over and wonder what he have best do , when Mr. Fox steal up behind him and startle him so that he lose his balance and tumble down the bank into the water .
This frighten him more than ever , and he flap about and squawk and squawk and flap until Mr. Fox nearly split his side laugh at him .
And when he be quite out of breath , Mr. Quack discover that he be make all this fuss for nothing .
He do n't sink , but float on the water , and what be more the water do n't get under his feather at all .
When he try to walk , of course he could n't , and he have a funny feeling because his foot do n't touch anything and felt so very useless .
But he keep move them back and forth , and pretty soon he discover that he move ahead .
Of course he move very slowly , because his foot be not make for use in the water , but he move , and that be enough .
He know then that he could get back to land .
Then he try his wing and he find that he could rise into the air from the water quite as easily a from the land .
Right then and there all fear of the water leave him .
In fact , he like it .
`` Little by little , Grandfather Quack begin to understand that he have make a great discovery .
He have discover the safe place in all the Great World for him .
Out on the water he be safe from Mr. Fox and Mr. Wolf and all the other four-footed hunter .
So he take to spend most of his time on the water or near it .
When he want a nap , he would hide among the rush that grow in the water .
` If only I do n't have to leave the water for food ! '
sigh Grandfather Quack .
` If only I could find food here , I would never leave the water . '
`` At the time he be squat at the very edge of the Smiling Pool .
Presently he notice a funny water bug crawl on the bottom where the water be only an inch or two deep . '
I wonder if that fellow be good to eat , ' think he , and almost without think he plunge his head under water and catch the bug .
It be good .
Grandfather Quack at once start to look for more , and while do this he discover that there be a great many seed from the rush scatter about in the mud at the bottom of the Smiling Pool , and that these also be good to eat .
Then quite by accident he get hold of a tender root in the mud and find that this be especially good .
`` This be enough for Grandfather Quack .
He have find that he could get plenty to eat without leave the Smiling Pool .
Moreover , he do n't have to share it with anybody , because there be no one else who think of look for food there .
He know when he be well off .
So Grandfather Quack grow fat and be happy .
The only thing that bother him be the slowness with which he have to pick up seed , one at a time , and the slowness with which he could paddle about , for you could n't really call it swim .
But in spite of these thing he be happy and make the best of his lot .
`` One day he tug and tug at a root with his head under water .
When at last he have to bring his head up for a breath , whom should he discover but Old Mother Nature watch him from the opposite bank .
` Come over here , Mr. Quack , and tell me all about it , ' she command .
`` Grandfather Quack start across the Smiling Pool , but because his foot be not make for swimming , it take him a long time to get there .
Old Mother Nature smile a she watch him .
` You look good on the water than you do on land , ' say she .
` In fact , I believe that be just where you belong .
Now tell me how you happen to take to the water . '
`` Grandfather Quack tell her the whole story and how Old Mother Nature do laugh when he describe how frightened he be when he fell in that time .
Suddenly she reach out and catch him by the bill . '
I do n't think much of that bill for poke about in the mud , ' say she .
` How will this do ? '
She let go , and Grandfather Quack find he have a broad bill just suit for get food out of the mud .
Then Old Mother Nature bid him hold forth first one foot and then the other .
Between the toe she stretch a tough skin clear to the toe nail .
` Now let me see you swim , ' say she .
`` Grandfather Quack try .
He kick one foot and then the other , and to his great joy he shoot along swiftly .
When he draw his foot back for another kick his toe close together , and so his foot come through the water easily .
But when he kick back they be wide spread , and the skin between them push against the water , and drive him ahead .
It be wonderful !
It be splendid !
He hurry over to Old Mother Nature , and with tear of joy in his eye he thank her .
And from that day to this member of my family have have the same broad bill and webbed foot , and have live on the water , '' conclude Mr. Quack .
-LSB- Illustration : Peter notice those foot the first time he meet Mr. and Mrs. Quack .
Page 111 .
-RSB- IX WHERE THUNDERFOOT THE BISON GOT HIS HUMP Thunderfoot the Bison , often call Buffalo , be not a handsome fellow , a you very well know if you have see him or a picture of him .
His head be carry low , very near the ground , and on his shoulder be a great hump .
No , you would n't call him handsome .
You would hardly call him good-looking even .
In fact , you would , I suspect , call him homely .
Certainly there be nothing about him to suggest pride .
Yet accord to the story Digger the Badger once tell Peter Rabbit , pride and nothing le be the cause of that big hump which make Thunderfoot appear so clumsy and homely .
Peter Rabbit , a you know , be very fond of story .
In this respect he be very like some other folk I know .
Anyway , he never miss a chance for a story if he can help it .
He have discover that Digger the Badger and Old Man Coyote , both of whom have come to the Green Meadows from the Far West , be full of story about their neighbor of the distant prairie , folk whom Peter never have see .
Sometimes when he have nothing else to do , Old Man Coyote would come over to the dear Old Briar-patch and tell story to Peter , who sit safe behind the bramble .
Perhaps Old Man Coyote hop that Peter would become so interested that he would forget and come out of the dear Old Briar-patch .
But Peter never do .
But most of the story of the people of the Far West Peter get from Digger the Badger because , you see , he be n't afraid to go beg for them .
He know that Digger could n't catch him if he want to , and so when Grandfather Frog have n't a story for him , Peter would go tease Digger for one .
It be thus that he hear about Thunderfoot the Bison and where he get that great hump of his .
`` I do n't suppose , '' say Peter , `` that there be any very big people out there on those prairie where you use to live any more than there be here on the Green Meadows .
All the very big people seem to prefer to live in the Green Forest . ''
`` It be that way now , I must admit , '' say Digger the Badger , `` but it be n't so in the old day , in the good old day when there be no terrible gun , and Thunderfoot and his follower shake the ground with their foot . ''
Digger shake his head sadly .
Instantly Peter prick up his ear .
`` Who be Thunderfoot ? ''
he demand .
Digger look at Peter with such a look of pity for Peter 's ignorance that Peter felt almost ashamed .
`` He do n't live here and never do , so far a I have hear , so how should I know anything about him ? ''
he add a wee bit defiantly .
`` If that 's the case , '' reply Digger , `` it be time you learn about the Lord of the Prairies . ''
`` But I want to know about Thunderfoot first ! ''
cry Peter .
`` You can tell me about the Lord of the Prairies another time . ''
`` Were you bear stupid or have you grow so ? ''
ask Digger impatiently .
Then without wait for an answer he add : `` Thunderfoot be the Lord of the Prairies .
He rule over the Wide Prairies just a Old King Bear rule in the Green Forest .
He rule by might .
He rule because no one dare deny him the right to rule .
He rule because of his great size and his great strength .
And all who live on the Wide Prairies look up to him and admire him and bow before him and pay him the utmost respect .
When he and his follower run the earth shook , and the noise be like thunder , and everybody hasten to get out of the way and to warn his neighbor , cry : ` Here come my Lord of the Prairies !
Make way !
Make way ! '
And truly Thunderfoot and his follower be a magnificent sight , so my great-grandfather tell me , and he have it from his great-grandfather , who be tell so by his great-grandfather , who saw it all with his own eye .
But that be in the day before Thunderfoot 's head be bring low , and he be give the great hump which none of his descendant have ever be able to get rid of . ''
`` Tell me about that hump and where my Lord of the Prairies , Thunderfoot the Bison , get it ! ''
beg Peter , with shin eye .
That there be a story he have n't the least doubt .
Digger the Badger flatten himself out on the ground , and into his eye creep a dreamy , far-away look a if he be see thing a great , great way off .
`` Way back In the day when the world be young , so my great-grandfather say , '' he begin , `` Thunderfoot , the first Bison , be give the Wide Prairies for a kingdom by Old Mother Nature and stride forth to take possession .
Big be he , the big of all living creature thereabouts .
Strong be he with a strength none care to test .
And he be handsome .
He hold his head proudly .
All who live on the Wide Prairies admire him with a great admiration and hasten to pay homage to him .
`` For a long time he rule wisely .
All the other people bring their dispute to him to be settle , and so wisely do he decide them that the fame of his wisdom spread even beyond the Wide Prairies and be talk about in the Green Forest .
The humblest of his subject could come to him freely and be sure of a hearing and that justice would be do .
Big a he be and mighty a he be , he take the great care never to forget the right of others .
`` But there come a time when flattery turn his head , a the saying be .
Mr. Coyote and Mr. Fox be the chief flatterer , and in all the Great World there be no smoother tongue than theirs .
They never lose an opportunity to tell him how handsome he be , and how mighty he be , and how they admire him and look up to him , and how unequaled be his wisdom .
You see , be themselves dishonest and mischief-maker , they frequently be in trouble with their neighbor and would have to appear before Thunderfoot for judgment .
Even when it go against them they praise the wisdom of it , admit that they be in the wrong and beg forgiveness , all of which be very flatter to Thunderfoot .
`` Little by little , without know it , he yield to the flattery of Mr. Coyote and Mr. Fox .
He like to hear the pleasant thing they say .
Little by little it become easier to find them in the right than in the wrong when they be accuse of wrong their neighbor .
Of course they flatter him still more .
They hint to him that it be beneath the dignity of one so big and strong and handsome to take notice of the very small and humble people like Mr. Meadow Mouse and Mr. Toad and Mr. Meadow Lark and others of his subject .
`` Gradually the little people of the Wide Prairies begin to notice a change in Thunderfoot .
He become proud and vain .
He openly boast of his strength and fine appearance .
When he meet them he pass them haughtily , not see them at all , or at least appear not to .
No longer do he regard the right of others .
No longer do he watch out not to crush the nest of Mrs. Meadow Lark or to step on the baby of Danny Meadow Mouse .
It come about that when the thunder of his foot be hear , those with home on the ground shiver with fright and hop that my Lord of the Prairies would not come their way .
`` One day , a he race over the Wide Prairies for no reason but that he felt like run , Mr. Meadow Lark fly to meet him .
Mr. Meadow Lark be in great distress .
` Turn aside , my Lord ! '
he beg .
` Turn aside , my Lord of the Prairies , for before you lie my nest with four precious egg , and I fear you will step on them ! '
`` Thunderfoot the Bison , Lord of the Wide Prairies , toss his head .
` If you will build your nest where it can be tread on , you ca n't expect me to look out for it , ' say he .
` If anything so unfortunate happens to it , it be your own fault , and you must n't blame me . '
And he neither look down to see where he be put his foot nor turn aside so much a an inch .
On he gallop , and presently with a cry of fright out from beneath his foot fly Mrs. Meadow Lark , and at the very next step he tread on the little nest in the grass and crush the four egg .
`` Mr. Coyote , who be race beside him on one side and saw what have happen , grin .
Mr. Fox , who be race beside him on the other side and saw what have happen , grin .
Seeing them grin , Thunderfoot himself grin .
Thus grin heartlessly , they continue to run until they come to a place where Mother Nature walk among the flower of the Wide Prairies .
Mr. Coyote and Mr. Fox , whose head be not hold so high , saw her in time to put their tail between their leg and slink away .
Thunderfoot , hold his head high , fail to see her until he be so close to her that it be with difficulty he stop before run her down . ''
` My Lord of the Prairies seem in fine spirit , ' say Mother Nature softly .
` Is all well with my Lord ? '
`` Thunderfoot toss his head proudly .
` All be well , ' say he . '' '
I be sorry that others can not say a much , ' reply Mother Nature , and all the softness be go from her voice , and it be sharp . '
I seem to hear the sob of a broken-hearted little Meadow Lark , ' she continue .
` Little though she be and humble , she be as much to me a be my Lord of the Prairies who have make her suffer . '
`` Stooping swiftly , Mother Nature pick up her staff and with it strike Thunderfoot on the neck , so that his head be bring low , and in fear of another blow he hump his shoulder up .
` Thus shall you be , still big , still strong , but hump-shouldered and carry your head low in shame , no longer Lord of the Prairies , until such time a you restore to Mrs. Meadow Lark the egg you destroy , ' say she , and turn her back on him .
`` It be so .
From that day on , Thunderfoot cease to rule over the Wide Prairies .
He be hump-shouldered and he carry his head low , look and look for the egg he never could find to restore to Mrs. Meadow Lark .
And though his child and his child 's child become many , there never be one without the hump or who cease to carry his head low in shame , '' conclude Digger the Badger .
X WHERE LIMBERHEELS GOT HIS LONG TAIL .
Have you ever see Limberheels the Jumping Mouse when he be in a hurry ?
If you have , very likely the first time you felt very much a Peter Rabbit do when he saw Limberheels for the first time .
He be hop along across the Green Meadows with nothing much on his mind when from right under his wobbly nose something shot into the air over the top of the grass for eight or ten foot and then down and out of sight .
Peter rub his eye .
`` Did I see it , or do n't I ?
And if I do , what be it ? ''
gasp Peter .
A squeaky little laugh answer him .
`` You saw it all right , Peter , but it be n't polite to call any one it .
He would be quite provoked if he have hear you .
That be my cousin , Limberheels , '' reply a voice quite as squeaky a the laugh have be .
Peter turn to see the bright eye of Danny Meadow Mouse twinkle at him from the entrance to a tiny little path that join the big path in which Peter be sit .
`` Hello , Danny ! ''
he exclaim .
`` Do you mean to tell me that be a relative of yours ?
Since when have any of your relative take to fly ? ''
Danny chuckle .
`` He be n't fly , '' he retort .
`` He just jump , that be all . ''
Danny chuckle again , for he know that Peter consider himself quite a jumper and be incline to be a bit jealous of any one else who pretend to jump save his cousin , Jumper the Hare .
`` Jumped ! ''
snort Peter .
`` Jumped !
Do you expect me to believe that any Mouse can jump like that ?
I do n't get a good look at that fellow , but whoever he be I tell you he fly .
Nobody can jump like that . ''
Danny chuckle again .
`` Wait a minute , Peter , '' say he .
He disappear , and Peter wait .
He wait one minute , two minute , three minute , and then suddenly Danny poke his head out from the grass beside the path .
`` Here he be , Peter , '' say he , come wholly out into the path .
`` Let me introduce my cousin , Limberheels . ''
As he speak the grass beside him rustle , and out creep some one beside whom Danny Meadow Mouse look big , clumsy and homely .
One glance be enough to tell Peter that the stranger be a sure-enough member of the Mouse family , but such a member a he never have see before .
He be trim and slender .
He wear a reddish-brown coat with a white waistcoat .
But the thing that make Peter stare very impolitely be his tail and his leg .
His tail be nearly twice as long a his body , slim and tapering , and his hind leg be very long , while his fore leg be short .
It take only one glance to convince Peter that here be a born jumper .
Any one built like that must jump .
`` You two must become acquainted and be friend , '' continue Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Peter be one of my best friend , Limberheels .
He would n't hurt a flea .
I 'm sure that from now on he will be one of your best friend . ''
`` I 'll be happy to , '' say Peter promptly .
`` Danny have be tell me what a wonderful jumper you be .
Would you mind show me how you jump ?
I guess you jump right in front of me a few minute ago , but I be so surprised that I do n't really see you . ''
`` I guess I do , '' reply Limberheels rather timidly .
`` You see , I do n't hear you come until you be almost on top of me , and then I do n't know who it be so I get away as quickly a I could .
I 'll be ever so glad to have you for a friend and next time I wo n't run away . ''
`` Show him how you can jump , '' interrupt Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` He would n't believe me when I tell him that you do n't fly . ''
Limberheels grin rather sheepishly .
`` Of course I do n't fly , '' say he .
`` No animal can fly but Flitter the Bat .
I just jump like this . ''
With a tremendous spring from his long hind leg Limberheels leap , while Peter Rabbit star , his mouth wide open with astonishment .
He have n't dream that any one could jump so far in proportion to his size a this slim , trim little cousin of Danny 's .
Later , after Limberheels have jump for Peter 's benefit until he be tire and have go to hunt for a lunch of grass seed , Peter want to know all about Limberheels .
`` Never in my life have I see such jumping , '' he declare .
`` And never have I see such a tail .
I think Whitefoot the Wood Mouse have a fine tail , but it do n't compare with that of Limberheels . ''
`` It be a fine tail , '' reply Danny , whose own tail , a you know , be very short .
`` It be a fine tail , '' he repeat rather wistfully .
`` Would you like to hear where he get it ? ''
`` I know , '' retort Peter with a grin .
`` He get it from his father , who get it from his father , and so on way back to the day when the world be young . ''
Then , see a look of disappointment on Danny 's face , and eager for a story a usual , he add : `` But I would like to know how such a tail a that come in the family . ''
Danny brighten up at once .
`` It 's funny how thing come about in this world , '' he begin .
`` The great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of Limberheels , the first one , you know , be quite an ordinary Mouse when Old Mother Nature make him and start him out to make his way in the Great World .
He be little , one of the small of the family , and his tail be short , no long than mine .
His hind leg be like those of all his relative .
He run about just a his relative do .
He be so small and keep out of sight so much that he do n't even have a name .
There be nothing about him to suggest a name .
`` For a long time he be content and happy .
Then one day he happen to see Mr. Hare jump .
It seem to him the most wonderful thing in the world that any one should be able to jump like that .
So he begin to spend most of his spare time where he could watch Mr. Hare .
One day Old Mother Nature happen along unseen by him , a he be watch Mr. Hare jump , and she overhear him say very , very wistfully , ` How I wish I could jump like that !
I wish I have long hind legs like Mr. Hare . '
`` Old Mother Nature 's kindly eye twinkle .
` That 's easily arrange , ' say she .
` If you think long hind leg will be of more use to you than the one you have , you shall have them . '
`` The next morning when little Mr . Mouse awake , he discover that in the night something have happen to his hind leg .
They be very long and strong , regular jumping leg like those of Mr. Hare .
Of course he be in such a great hurry to try them that he could n't wait for his breakfast .
He begin by make little short hop , and in no time at all he be get about splendidly .
At last he get up his courage to try a long jump .
Up in the air he shoot , and then something happen .
Yes , Sir , something happen .
He could n't keep his balance .
He turn two or three somersault and land on his back . '' '
I guess , ' say he to himself , ` I 've get to learn to make long jump . '
So he keep try and try , but always with the same result -- he never know when , where , or how he be go to land .
As long a he make short jump he have no trouble , but every time he try a long jump he lose his balance , and try a he would he could n't discover why .
So at last he give up try and content himself with short jump .
Finally Old Mother Nature come that way again . ''
` How do you like your long hind leg ? '
she ask . ''
` Very much , thank you , ' reply little Mr . Mouse politely . ''
` Let me see you jump , ' say Old Mother Nature .
`` Little Mr . Mouse make half a dozen little jump .
They be not much more than hop .
` You do n't call that jumping , do you ? '
laugh Old Mother Nature .
` With such long , strong leg a I 've give you , you ought to be one of the best jumper anywhere about .
Now let me see you make a long jump . '
`` Little Mr . Mouse try his best to think of some excuse , but he could n't .
So he make a long jump , and the usual thing happen -- he turn two or three somersault and land on his back .
Old Mother Nature look astonish .
Then she laugh until she have to hold her side .
` Do it again , ' she command .
`` With the most shamefaced air that you can imagine , little Mr . Mouse jump again .
Old Mother Nature watch him closely .
` Come here to me , ' say she a he scramble to his foot after his tumble .
` It 's all my fault , ' say she kindly , a he obey her .
` It be very stupid of me .
What you need be a long tail to balance you on a long jump .
That short tail be all right for short jump , but it wo n't do for long jump .
It wo n't do at all .
I should have think of that when I make your leg long . '
`` She reach down and take hold of the tip of that little short tail and draw it out until it be long , almost twice as long a the body of little Mr . Mouse .
` Now jump , ' she command , ` and jump with all your might . '
`` A little fearfully but with the beginning of a little hope Mr . Mouse jump with all his might .
Away he sail straight and true and land lightly on his foot so far from where he have leave the ground that he could hardly believe his own eye a he look back .
Mother Nature be smile . ''
` There you be , Mr. Limberheels .
I guess that that will make you quite the most wonderful jumper of all my child , ' say she .
`` And so it be that little Mr . Mouse , all at one time , become possess of a long tail , a name , and the ability to out jump all his neighbor , '' conclude Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Do you know , '' he add wistfully , `` sometimes I envy my cousin Limberheels . ''
`` I envy him myself , '' declare Peter .
XI WHERE OLD MR. GOBBLER GOT THE STRUTTING HABIT Peter Rabbit never will forget the first time he saw Big Tom Gobbler .
It be very early one spring morning , when Peter be not yet old enough to have make the acquaintance of all the people who live in the Green Forest , and when it seem a if the chief thing in life with him be to satisfy his curiosity about the way of the Great World .
Several time when he have be hop along , lipperty-lipperty-lip , through the Green Forest just after sun-up , he have hear a strange sound quite unlike any other of all the many sound his long ear have learn to know .
He know that it be the voice of some one who live in the Green Forest , but though he have look and look he have be unable to discover the owner of that voice .
On this particular morning Peter happen to be sit under some fern on the edge of a little open space among the tree when again he hear that strange voice .
It seem to come from somewhere back in the wood in the very direction from which he have just come .
`` Gobble-obble-obble ! ''
say the voice , and again a moment later `` Gobble-obble-obble ! ''
Peter be just prepare to go back to see if he could find the owner of that voice when the noise of great wing cause him to look up just in time to see a big bird than he ever have even dream of come swiftly over the tree-tops .
With his eye pop out and his mouth wide open with astonishment , Peter saw the great bird set it wing and sail down into the little opening on the edge of which Peter be sit .
The instant this great bird be on the ground , he stand as still a if he be make of stone , his long neck stretch up .
Only the shine of a pair of the sharp eye Peter ever have see show that he be alive .
Peter hold his breath , and it be so still that you could have hear a leaf drop have you be there .
When at last the stranger move , it be his head only .
He turn it suddenly to the right and a moment later to the left .
It be plain that he be listen for suspicious sound .
All the time his bright eye search the edge of the opening until Peter , although he be well hidden , felt that he must be see .
At last , satisfy that all be safe , the stranger draw in his neck and begin to walk about , peck at the ground here and there and swallow what he pick up , though what it be Peter could n't tell .
A sound seem to catch the stranger 's quick ear , for he stop and star very hard at a little clump of brush .
Peter star at it too .
At first he saw nothing , but presently he saw a head poke out , and this also be a stranger .
Peter glance at the big stranger in the opening , and for a minute he wonder if it could be that something be wrong with his eye .
Never have he see such a change in anybody .
This stranger do n't look like the same bird at all .
He be swell up until Peter be afraid he would burst .
His tail be spread out like a great fan .
His head be lay back on his humped shoulder .
His wing be drop until the stiffly spread feather brush the ground .
His head and neck be as red a blood , and there be no feather on either .
All the feather of his body be ruff out so that the sun shone on them and make them shimmer and shine in color that seem to constantly change .
Back and forth in front of the brush from which the other stranger be peep very shyly this great bird strut .
He would stand still so that the sun would fall full on his shin coat and show it off to the best advantage , and at the same time he would draw in a great deal of air and then puff it out all at once .
Then he would walk a few step , turn , drag his wing on the ground to make them rustle , wheel , and run a few step .
Never have Peter see such vanity , such conceit , such imposing , puffed-up pride .
He watch until he grow tired , and then he steal away and hurry over to the Smiling Pool to tell Grandfather Frog all about it and ask who these stranger be .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
exclaim Grandfather Frog , open his big mouth very wide to laugh at Peter and his excitement .
`` That be Big Tom Gobbler , and he be do all that for the benefit of Mrs. Gobbler , who be hide in that brush .
It be her head you saw .
Big Tom be the most conceited fellow in the Green Forest .
He dearly love to strut .
He be just like his father and his grandfather and his great-grandfather .
The Gobblers never have get over strut since Old Mr. Gobbler , the first of the family , get the habit . ''
`` Tell me about it .
Please , Grandfather Frog , tell me about it , '' beg Peter .
`` How do Old Mr. Gobbler get the habit ? ''
Grandfather Frog chuckle .
`` He get it from admire his own reflection in a pool of water , '' say he .
`` You see , in those day way back when the world be young , people have more time to form habit than they do now .
With plenty to eat and little to do , they have more time to think about themselves than they do now .
Old Mr. Gobbler soon discover that he be the big of all the bird in that part of the Great World where he live , and this discovery be , I suspect , the beginning of his vanity .
Then one day a he be walk along , he come to a little pool of water .
It be very clear , and there be n't a ripple on the surface .
There for the first time Mr. Gobbler saw his reflection .
The more he look , the good he like his own appearance .
He spread his tail just to see how it would look in the water .
Then he puff himself out and strut . ''
` There be nobody to compare with me , ' think he , and strut more than ever .
`` After that he use to steal away every day to admire himself in that little pool of water .
He try new way of strut and of puff himself out .
After a while he be no longer content to admire himself .
He want others to admire him .
So the first chance he get he begin to strut and show off all his grand air before Mrs. Gobbler .
At first she pay no attention to him .
At least that be the way she appear .
She would turn her back on him and walk off into the bush .
This make Old Mr. Gobbler very angry until he discover that she would tiptoe back and watch him admiringly when she think he do n't know it .
That make him strut all the more .
`` At first all the neighbor use to gather around and admire him and tell him how handsome he be until his head be quite turned , a the saying be , and he spend most of his time strutting and show off .
Then he take to brag and boast that there be no bird to compare with him .
Thus he become quite unbearable , and all his neighbor would turn their back on him when they saw him come .
Only Mrs. Gobbler continue to watch in secret and to admire him .
`` Now in those day Mr. Gobbler do n't have a red head and neck .
One day Old Mother Nature happen along when Mr. Gobbler be strut and boast how big and brave he be .
He do n't see her , and she watch him quietly for a few minute .
Then she slip away and hunt up Mr. Wolf . '' '
I want you to steal over where Mr. Gobbler be strut , ' say she , ` and suddenly spring out at him a if you intend to catch him . '
`` Mr. Wolf grin and trot off to do her bidding .
He find Mr. Gobbler swell up until he look a if he must burst , and brag to Mrs. Gobbler . ''
` I 'm the big of all the bird , ' brag Mr. Gobbler .
` I 'm afraid of no one .
While you have me with you , my dear , you have nothing in all the Great World to fear . '
`` Just then out spring Mr. Wolf with all his long , sharp teeth showing .
Mr. Gobbler give a yelp of fright .
He lose his swelled-up appearance as suddenly a a bubble flattens out when it be prick .
With a frantic beating of his wing he take to the air .
Being in such a fright , he do n't see where he be go , and strike his head against a sharp twig , which tear the skin , for there be no feather to protect it , and make it bleed .
The blood run all over his head and down his neck , though he really be hardly hurt at all .
From the top of a tall tree he look down .
There stand Old Mother Nature , look up at him . ''
` Mr. Gobbler , ' say she , ` you have acquire a bad habit , a very bad habit .
Hereafter , whenever you become vain and strut , your head and neck shall become as red a they now be , a a reminder to you and all who see you of how silly it be to be vain and boastful . '
`` And so it be .
And so it be with Big Tom Gobbler to this day .
There be nothing in the world more foolish than vanity , '' conclude Grandfather Frog .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Do n't call me Striped Chipmunk , and do n't call me Gopher ! ''
say he .
Page 172 .
-RSB- XII WHERE SEEK-SEEK GOT HIS PRETTY COAT Peter Rabbit never will forget the first time he saw Seek-Seek the Ground Squirrel , often wrongly call Gopher or Gopher Squirrel , but whose real name be Spermophile , which mean seed eater .
Peter wo n't forget that meeting , because of the funny mistake he make and the foolish feeling he have a a result of it .
You see , Peter do n't know that there be such a person a Seek-Seek .
He be hop along across the Green Meadows in his usual happy-go-lucky way when , right in front of him , he saw what at first he take to be a stake , a small stake , drive in the ground .
But a he draw nearer , it suddenly move .
It be n't a stake at all , but a very lively small person in a striped coat who have be sit up very straight and motionless .
`` Hello , Striped Chipmunk !
What be you do way out here so far from the old stone wall ? ''
exclaim Peter .
The small person in the striped coat whirl and face Peter with snap eye .
`` Do n't call me Striped Chipmunk , and do n't call me Gopher ! ''
say he very fiercely for so small a person .
`` I be neither one .
I be Seek-Seek the Ground Squirrel , and I 'll thank you to call me by my own name .
I be get everlastingly tire of be call the name of other people . ''
Peter look very foolish .
`` I beg your pardon , '' say he .
`` I do indeed .
I 'm sorry .
Perhaps you do n't know it , but you look very much like Striped Chipmunk , who be one of my best friend .
You look so much like him that I think you must be him .
I wonder if you be relate to him . ''
`` Certainly I 'm related to him , or he be relate to me , whichever way you please to put it , '' snap Seek-Seek .
`` We be cousin .
But he be a Rock Squirrel , and I be a Ground Squirrel which be altogether different .
You do n't find me where there be rock and stone in the way if I know it .
Besides , if you use your eye , you would see that we be not dress alike either .
Just because we both happen to wear stripe be no reason why we should be mistake for each other . ''
Peter look at Seek-Seek more closely than he have , and at once he make a discovery .
`` Why ! ''
he exclaim , `` your coat have more stripe than Striped Chipmunk 's have , have n't it ? ''
`` I should hope so , '' retort Seek-Seek .
`` And it have little row of spot , too ! ''
cry Peter .
`` If I have notice those spot at first , I would n't have make such a foolish mistake .
I do believe that your coat be pretty than Striped Chipmunk 's , and I have think his as pretty a a coat can be . ''
Seek-Seek look rather pleased , though he try not to .
`` Huh ! ''
he sniff .
`` Of course it 's pretty .
It take you a long time to find it out .
I would n't trade coat with Striped Chipmunk or anybody else of my acquaintance . ''
`` Neither would I if I be in your place , '' declare Peter .
`` I wish Old Mother Nature have give me a coat like that . ''
He say this so wistfully that Seek-Seek , who have start to laugh , turn his head so that Peter might not know it .
`` I 'm afraid it would n't look so well on one as big a you , '' he reply .
`` Anyway , you would n't be able to hide from your enemy a you can now . ''
`` That 's so , '' say Peter thoughtfully .
`` I would be easily see in a coat like that , for a fact .
I have n't think of that .
I guess Old Mother Nature know best .
I -- I wonder how she ever happen to think of a coat like yours . ''
Seek-Seek chuckle .
He have quite forget that he have felt offend because Peter have mistake him for his cousin , Striped Chipmunk .
He enjoy Peter 's admiration of his coat .
He be naturally rather talkative , and like most folk he enjoy talk about himself .
`` This coat , '' say he , `` have be in the family a very great while .
Of course , I do n't mean this particular coat that I be wear , '' he hasten to add , a he saw Peter begin to grin .
`` I mean this style of coat have be in the family a very long time .
My father be dress just a I be .
So be his father and -- '' `` I know , '' interrupt Peter .
`` You be go to say that so be all your grandfather way back to the day when the world be young , and Old Mother Nature make the very first one of your family .
It 's funny to me that all the interesting thing happen such a long time ago .
Now be n't that what you be go to say ? ''
Seek-Seek admit that it be , and look a little disappointed that Peter have guess it .
But a second later he felt well when Peter ask him very politely but very earnestly for the story of how the first Ground Squirrel get such a pretty coat .
`` There be a story .
I know there be a story , '' declare Peter .
`` Wo n't you tell it to me please , Seek-Seek ? ''
Now Peter do n't want to hear it any more than Seek-Seek wanted to tell it , so while Peter squat down comfortably , Seek-Seek sit up very straight and begin the story .
`` First of all , you must know that Seek-Seek be an old family name which have be hand down just a the pattern of my coat have be .
The very first of all my great-great-grandfathers be call Seek-Seek .
When Old Mother Nature make Seek-Seek she must have have two family in mind at one time , the Marmot family and the Squirrel family , for she make him a little like each , so that in his look he sort of fit in between the two .
Mother Nature tell him that he be a member of the Squirrel family and set him free to find a place for himself in the Great World .
`` Now it do n't take Grandfather Seek-Seek long to find out that though he might be a member of the Squirrel family , Old Mother Nature have fail to furnish him with the right kind of claw for climb tree , a most of his cousin do .
True , he could climb a little , but it be not easy , and he felt anything but comfortable off the ground .
But if those claw be of little use for climb they be splendid tool for digging , just a be the claw of the Marmot family .
So Old Mother Nature must have be think of the Marmots when she fashion those claw .
`` At first Seek-Seek wander about try to find a place for himself in the Great World .
Being a Squirrel , he try to live a do his cousin , Mr. Red Squirrel and Mr. Gray Squirrel , but on account of those claw he do n't make much of a success of it .
Then one day he meet Mr. Chipmunk .
They stop and star at each other in surprise because , you know , their coat be so much alike .
At that time Seek-Seek be wear plain stripe , just a Striped Chipmunk do to this day . ''
` What do you mean by steal my coat ? '
demand Mr. Chipmunk angrily . '' '
I be just about to ask you the same question , ' retort Seek-Seek .
`` Mr. Chipmunk have a sharp reply right on the tip of his tongue , but he check it just in time .
` What 's the use of quarrel over something neither of u have anything to do with ? '
say he .
` It must be that we be cousin .
Where do you live ? '
`` Seek-Seek explain that he do n't live anywhere in particular but be try to find his place in the Great World .
He tell how he have try to live like the other Squirrels and fail . '
I know !
I know all about it , ' interrupt Mr. Chipmunk .
` I 've be all through it .
The place for u be on the ground or at least close to it .
Come see how I live . '
`` So Seek-Seek go with Mr. Chipmunk and saw how he live among the rock and stone .
For a time he try live there too , but he do n't like the rock and stone much good than he do the tree .
Besides , all the neighbor be forever mistake him for Mr. Chipmunk because they look so much alike , and he do n't like this .
One day he wander out on the Green Meadows .
It be very lovely out there among the grass and flower .
He wander far and far , and the farther he wander the good he like it .
By and by he come to the home of Yap-Yap the Prairie Dog , who be one of the Marmot family , a you know . '' '
A home like that would suit me , ' think Grandfather Seek-Seek wistfully , a he journey on . '
I wonder if I could dig one .
I believe I 'll try . '
`` So when he find a place to suit him he begin to dig .
There be no stone to hurt his foot and dull his nail , and he actually enjoy digging .
So he dig and dig until he have a wonderful underground home .
All about be plenty of seed and tender grass to eat , and he be happy .
He have find his place in the Great World .
Then one day along come Old Mother Nature .
` Hello , Mr. Chipmunk , ' she exclaim , a she catch sight of his striped coat , ` what be you do way out here ? '
`` Then she discover her mistake .
` Dear me , ' say she , ` this will never do at all .
If I ca n't tell my own child apart , how can I expect others to ?
Your coat be altogether too much like that of Mr. Chipmunk .
I must change it .
I certainly must change it . '
`` She lean over and lightly tap Seek-Seek right down the length of the broad brown stripe of his coat .
Wherever her finger touch a little spot of yellow be leave .
Then she do the same thing to each of the other brown stripe .
When she have finish Grandfather Seek-Seek have a coat exactly like the one I be now wear , and his cup of happiness be fill to the brim .
From that day on he never be mistake for Mr. Chipmunk or any one else .
That 's the story of my coat , and now I must get busy collect seed for my storehouse , '' conclude Seek-Seek .
`` Come and see me again , Peter Rabbit . ''
`` I will , '' reply Peter , a he start for the dear Old Briar-patch to tell Mrs. Peter all about Seek-Seek and his pretty coat .
XIII WHERE OLD MR. OSPREY LEARNED TO FISH Peter Rabbit have see a very strange thing .
It be strange to Peter , anyway .
It give him something to think about , and this , I be sure you will agree , be a most excellent thing , for it keep him out of mischief for a while .
He have be over to the Smiling Pool for a call on Jerry Muskrat and have just start back for the dear Old Briar-patch when he chance to look over in the direction of the Big River .
Coming straight towards him , but high in the air , be a big bird , a bird with broad wing .
Peter do n't have to look twice to know that it be a member of the Hawk family .
At first he think it be Redtail .
Then he catch a flash of white , and he think it be Whitetail the Marsh Hawk , in spite of the fact that it do n't fly like him .
Peter do n't stop to think of that .
It be enough for him that a member of the Hawk family be head that way , and he do n't care a twitch of his funny little tail which member it be .
He felt that the stomach of one be quite a undesirable a place for Peter Rabbit a the stomach of another , and he have no intention of fill any if he could help it .
He remember that there be an old house of Johnny Chuck 's under the Big Hickory-tree on the bank of the Smiling Pool , and he waste no time in get there , lipperty-lipperty-lip , a fast a he could go .
He would stay there until the way be clear to get home to the dear Old Briar-patch .
As soon a he be safe in the old house of Johnny Chuck , he turn and poke his head out of the doorway .
He want to see if any one would be catch .
He hop not , but if any one be catch , he want to see .
You know Peter never miss anything if he can help it .
On come Mr. Hawk , and when he be right over the Smiling Pool , he turn and make a short circle high in the air .
Then Peter saw that he have a white waist-coat and be a stranger .
`` I wonder who he be ? ''
thought Peter , star very hard .
`` He 's big than either Redtail or Whitetail .
I hope he be n't go to make his home here , because we have trouble enough a it be . ''
Suddenly Mr. Hawk pause high up in the air , then close his wing and shot straight down like an arrow .
Plunge !
Peter could n't believe his own eye .
Mr. Hawk actually have disappear in the Smiling Pool !
A second later there be a great splashing , and out of the water rise Mr. Hawk , flap his great wing heavily , scatter spray in all direction .
Up , up he go , and then Peter saw that in his great claw be a fish .
Peter watch him fly away with the fish , and when he felt that it be quite safe to do so , he come out .
Over on the end of an old log among the bulrush sit Jerry Muskrat just where Peter have leave him .
It be very plain that Jerry have n't be the least bit frighten by Mr. Hawk .
Peter could n't understand it .
His eye fairly pop out of his head with excitement and curiosity .
`` Who be that ? ''
he ask eagerly .
`` That ?
Why , that be Plunger the Osprey , though some people call him Fish Hawk , '' reply Jerry .
`` I think everybody know him .
Why do you run away , Peter ?
He would n't hurt you . ''
`` Huh !
I would n't trust any Hawk ! ''
snap Peter .
`` Which go to show how little you know ! ''
retort Jerry Muskrat .
`` Plunger never bother anybody but the fish , but he surely be a terror to them .
Old Mother Nature know what she be do when she make fisherman out of that family , do n't she ? ''
`` She certainly do , though I 've never hear how she come to do it .
How do it happen , Jerry ? ''
Peter be do some fishing himself .
He be fish for a story .
Jerry Muskrat grin .
`` Think you 'll sleep any good if I tell you ? ''
he inquire .
Peter grin back and nod .
So Jerry Muskrat tell him this story : `` Way back in the day when the world be young , and the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfathers of all the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest of today be be start out in life by Old Mother Nature , they have everything to learn .
The Great World be a new place , and they be new in it .
No one know exactly his place or what be expect of him , and Old Mother Nature be too busy to be bother with question .
She expect each one to work out for himself a way in which to make himself useful , or at least to take care of himself , without bother her .
If he could n't do that , she do n't want him around at all , and the sooner something happen to him the good .
So the Great World begin to be people with bird and animal .
`` It do n't take them long to learn that it would n't be possible for all to live if they all eat the same kind of food .
So some learn to eat one thing and some another , and all go happily until there come a time when all food be scarce , and more stomach be empty than full .
You 've hear about that hard time and sad time ? ''
Peter nod , and Jerry take a drink of water and then go on with his tale .
`` Of course , that be really a very dreadful time , for it be then that the strong begin to hunt the weak , and fear be bear into the world .
And yet I guess it be n't wholly bad .
Nothing be , so far a I can find out .
Anyway , because of that hard time , everybody become a little smart than before .
You know an empty stomach sharpens wit , and fear put a fine edge on it .
Now Mr. Osprey , who be one of the big of the cousin of old King Eagle , could n't get over a feeling of meanness whenever he hunt those small than himself .
One day he catch little Mr. Sparrow when little Mr. Sparrow be so busy that he forget to watch out . ''
` I 'm powerful sorry , Mr. Sparrow , ' apologize Mr. Osprey , ` but there 's an emptiness just about your size in my stomach , and it wo n't give me any peace of mind until it 's fill .
I hate to make a neighbor uncomfortable , and I 'll be just a quick and accommodate about this little matter a I can .
If you 'll just shut your eye , you wo n't see anything unpleasant , and I wo n't be a minute in get that peace of mind I 've be without so long .
I just must have it , or I would n't bother you at all .
I hope you wo n't hold it against me , Mr. Sparrow . '
`` Mr. Osprey be so nice and polite about it that little Mr. Sparrow perk up a little and start his wit work .
He try to be just a nice and polite a Mr. Osprey . '
I know just how you feel , Mr. Osprey , ' say he , in a trembling voice , ` and during these hard time I 've have that same ailment of the mind because of lonesomeness of the stomach , which be trouble you .
So long a that emptiness be fill , I do n't suppose it matter to you if I should n't happen to fill it . ' ''
` Not at all , ' reply Mr. Osprey . ''
` Mr. Osprey , ' say little Mr. Sparrow very earnestly , ` if I be in your place , I never would go hungry .
No , Sir , I never would go hungry .
And I certainly never , never would trouble any of my neighbor who wear feather .
I certainly would feel most happy if Old Mother Nature have give me what she have give you .
Indeed I would . '
`` Mr. Osprey look down at little Mr. Sparrow and blink at him in a puzzled way .
` What have Old Mother Nature give me that you would be happy to have ? '
he ask . ''
` Fishhooks ! '
reply little Mr. Sparrow , point to Mr. Osprey 's great claw , ` the fine fishhook in the world .
You do n't hear Billy Mink or Little Joe Otter or Mr. Heron complain about hard time .
Why ?
Because they do n't know what hard time be .
There be plenty of fish to be catch , and when they be hungry they go fish .
Fish be very filling and satisfying , I 've hear say .
When I fly across the Smiling Pool a little while ago , I saw a fat fish take a sun-bath right close to the top of the water .
Seemed like he be just wait for some one with hook to come along and snatch him right out of the water . ' ''
` Where 'd you say that fish be ? '
ask Mr. Osprey . ''
` If you 'll let me go , I 'll show you , ' reply little Mr. Sparrow .
`` So Mr. Osprey let little Mr. Sparrow go , but he follow him right close .
Mr. Sparrow lead the way straight to the Smiling Pool .
Sure enough , there be the big fish take a sun-bath .
Mr. Osprey hardly wet his foot put those big hook into that fish .
He fly away with it , and presently he be rid of that emptiness in his stomach and have back his peace of mind .
After that , whenever he be hungry , he go fish instead of hunt the bird and the animal .
By practice he learn how to use those big fishhook of his and become one of the smart of all fisherman .
He and little Mr. Sparrow become great friend , in fact , such friend that when Mr. Osprey build a great nest , little Mr. Sparrow build his right in the side of it , and there he be perfectly safe from others who might be hunt him .
And it 's be just that way ever since .
If you wear scale instead of fur , and live in the water instead of on the land , Peter Rabbit , you would have reason to fear Plunger the Osprey , but a it be , you be safer when he be about than when he be n't .
There come old Redtail the Hawk .
You 'd better get out of sight , Peter . ''
Peter do .
XIV WHERE OLD MR. BOB-CAT LEFT HIS HONOR Of all those who be forever try to catch Peter Rabbit , he fear none more than Yowler the Bob-cat .
And from that fear have grow hate .
You will find it true all through life that hate often spring from great fear .
Peter be n't much give to hate , but he do hate Yowler the Bob-cat .
It be partly because of his fear of Yowler , but it be still more because he feel that Yowler be not fair in his hunting .
He have no honor .
There be many others whom Peter fear , -- Reddy Fox , Old Man Coyote , Hooty the Owl , -- and with very good reason .
But Peter considers that these hunt him fairly .
He know when and where to be on the watch for them .
But with Yowler it be altogether different .
Yowler hide beside one of Peter 's favorite little path , and there he wait patiently for unsuspecting Peter to come along .
He wait and watch much a Black Pussy , who be a cousin of Yowler , wait and watch at a mousehole .
Peter feel that it do n't give him a chance , and everybody be entitle to at least a chance to live .
`` I hate him !
hate him !
hate him ! ''
exclaim Peter fiercely , a he crawl under the very middle of a great pile of brush after the narrow of narrow escape .
He have be hop along one of his favorite little path without a thought of danger .
Presently he come to a little branch path .
There he hesitate .
He have intend to keep on along the main path , but suddenly he have a feeling that it would be good to take the branch path .
He know no reason why he should n't keep on a he have plan .
It be just a feeling that it would be good to take the other path , a feeling without any real reason .
So he hesitate and finally turn down the little branch path .
As he do so he catch a glimpse of a brown form move stealthily from behind a log far up the main little path .
It be move swiftly in the direction of the little branch path .
That glimpse be enough for Peter .
That stealthy form could be but one person -- Yowler the Bob-cat .
He turn and dart back the way he have come and then off to one side to the great pile of brush under which he have crawl .
`` Who be it you hate ? ''
ask a voice .
For just a second Peter be startle , then he recognize the voice of Mrs. Grouse , one of his very best friend .
`` Yowler the Bob-cat , '' say he as fiercely a before .
`` I do n't love him myself , '' reply Mrs. Grouse .
`` I suspect that he be somewhere about , and that be why I be here .
Did you see him ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Peter , `` I saw him .
He be hide beside my favorite little path , and it be a wonder I do n't hop straight into his jaw .
That fellow do n't hunt fairly .
He do n't give u a chance .
He have n't any honor . ''
`` Honor ! ''
exclaim Mrs. Grouse .
`` Honor !
Of course he have n't any honor .
There have n't be any honor in Yowler 's family since old Mr. Bob-cat , the first of all the Bob-cats , leave his honor in Turkey Wood , way back in the day when the world be young , and fail to get it again .
Honor !
Of course Yowler have n't any .
What could you expect ? ''
At once Peter be all ear .
`` I 've never hear about that , '' say he .
`` Tell me about it , Mrs. Grouse .
We 've get to stay right where we be for a long time to make sure that Yowler have give u up and go away , so you will have plenty of time to tell me the story .
Where be Turkey Wood , and how do old Mr. Bob-cat happen to leave his honor there ? ''
`` He do n't happen to ; he do it deliberately , '' reply Mrs. Grouse .
`` You see , it be like this : In the beginning of thing , when Old Mother Nature make the first little people and the first big people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , she be too busy to watch over them all the time , so for a while she put them on their honor not to harm one another or interfere with one another in any way , for she want them to live in peace and happiness and raise family to people the Great World .
`` Now it chance that Mr. and Mrs. Gobbler , the first of the Turkey family , choose a certain little grove of tree in which to make their home , and it become know a Turkey Wood .
There , in course of time , Mrs. Turkey make her nest on the ground , well hide among some bush , and in it lay twelve big egg .
It be the day on which she lay the twelfth big egg that old Mr. Bob-cat , who , of course , be n't old then , take it into his head to prowl about in Turkey Wood .
Already Mr. Bob-cat have begin to form a sneaky habit of stealth .
He be very fond of watch his neighbor to find out what they be about , and it be this fondness of mind the business of other people instead of his own that be make him sneaky and stealthy , for of course he do n't want any one to know what he be do .
`` It happen that a he steal into Turkey Wood , Mrs. Gobbler leave her nest to get a bite to eat .
Mr. Bob-cat saw her , but she do n't see him .
He crouch flat until she be out of sight . ''
` She seem mighty careful about how she slip out of those bush , ' think Mr. Bob-cat .
` She act a if she do n't want to be see .
I wonder why .
I wonder if she have a secret hidden in those bush .
I suppose the way to find out be to look . '
`` First making sure that no one saw him , Mr. Bob-cat creep in his sneaky way into the bush , and it do n't take him long to find that nest with the twelve big egg .
He do n't know what they be , for they be the first egg he have ever see .
He star at them and wonder if they be good to eat .
He glance this way and that way to be sure that no one be watch him . ''
` Do n't touch them , ' warn something inside of him .
` These belong to Mrs. Gobbler , and Old Mother Nature have put you on your honor not to interfere with others or their affair . ' ''
` It wo n't do any harm just to touch them and see what they be like , ' say another little tempting voice inside of him . ''
` Remember your honor , ' warn the first little voice . ''
` Bother my honor !
I 'm not go to do any harm , ' mutter Mr. Bob-cat , and pick up one of the egg in his mouth .
He try it with his teeth to see if it be hard , and of course he put his teeth right through the shell .
He start to put it back in a hurry , but just then he notice a good taste in his mouth .
The inside of that egg be good to eat , very good indeed ! ''
` One wo n't be miss , ' think Mr. Bob-cat , and then , fear that Mrs. Gobbler would return , he bound away , take the egg with him .
`` When Mrs. Gobbler return , she do miss that egg .
She look all about for it , but there be nothing to show what have become of it .
With a troubled mind she begin to sit on her egg .
She be so worried that she do n't leave them until she simply have to get something to eat .
`` Meanwhile Mr. Bob-cat have eat that egg , and it have taste so good that he could think of nothing but how he could get another .
So at the first opportunity he sneak back to Turkey Wood , and without make a sound crept in among the bush until he could see Mrs. Gobbler sit on her egg .
There he lay and watch and watch until Mrs. Gobbler leave to get something to eat .
No sooner be she out of sight than Mr. Bob-cat steal to the nest . ''
` Remember your honor , ' warn the little voice inside . ''
` Bother honor .
I 'd rather have an egg , ' mutter Mr. Bob-cat , and pull one out of the nest .
He bite a hole in one end and suck out the content .
It be so good he take another .
This lead to a third , and finally Mr. Bob-cat have suck every one of those egg .
Then silently he sneak away -- away from Turkey Wood to a distant part of the Green Forest .
Behind him in Turkey Wood he leave a nestful of empty shell and his honor . ''
` Nobody know who do it , and nobody ever will find out , ' think Mr. Bob-cat , but all the time he know that he have leave his honor behind , and this make him more sneaky than ever .
He never would meet any one face to face .
You know that be something that one who have lose his honor never can do .
It be n't long before all his neighbor know that he be without honor , and so would have nothing to do with him .
They shun him .
He grow to be more and more of a sneak .
And all the time he believe that no one know what he have do or where he have leave his honor .
`` But Old Mother Nature know .
Of course Mrs. Gobbler tell her what have happen to her egg .
Old Mother Nature tell her to make a new nest and hide it more carefully than before , which Mrs. Gobbler do and hatch out ten fine young Gobblers .
Meanwhile Old Mother Nature go about her business , but all the time she be watch to see who would fail to look her straight in the face .
The first time she meet Mr. Bob-cat he try to slip past unseen .
When Old Mother Nature step in front of him , he could n't look her in the face , try a he would . ''
` Ah-ha ! '
say she .
` You be the one who leave his honor in Turkey Wood .
From this time forth you shall be an outcast , friendless and alone , hat by every one . '
`` And so it be , and have be ever since .
And so it be with Yowler today .
You say truly , Peter , that he have n't any honor .
Is n't it dreadful ? ''
And Peter agree that it be .
XV WHERE DIPPY THE LOON GOT THE NAME OF BEING CRAZY As you all know , Peter Rabbit be out and about at a time when most folk be snugly tuck in bed .
The fact be , Peter be very fond of roam around at night .
He say he feel safe then in spite of the fact that some of his smart enemy be also out and about , among them Hooty the Owl and Reddy Fox and Old Man Coyote .
The two latter also hunt by day when the fancy take them or they have be so unsuccessful at night that their stomach wo n't give them any peace , and Peter be sure that though they can see very well at night , they can see still well in the light of day .
Anyway , that be one of the reason he give for his own liking for roam after jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have go to bed behind the Purple Hills .
Now it happen one moonlight night that Peter have venture way over almost to the Big River .
He have hear Hooty the Owl 's fierce hunting call far off in the Green Forest .
He have hear Reddy Fox bark up in the Old Pasture .
So Peter felt quite safe .
He felt so safe that he have almost forget that there could be such a thing a fear .
And then , from the direction of the Big River , there come such a sound a Peter never have hear before .
It be a sound that make his heart seem to quite stop beating for an instant .
It be a sound that send cold chill race and chase all over him .
It be a sound that make him wish with all his might that he be that instant right in the heart of the dear Old Briar-patch instead of way over there near the bank of the Big River .
He do n't waste much time get back to the dear Old Briar-patch , once he be sure his heart have n't really stopped beating .
The way he go across the Green Meadows , lipperty-lipperty-lip , lipperty-lipperty-lip , be positive proof that in spite of his fright his heart be quite all right .
He do n't run a little way , stop , run a little farther and stop again , a be his usual way .
He keep lipperty-lipperty-lipping without a single stop until he reach the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch and once more felt really safe .
Two or three time he have felt that he must stop to get his breath , but each time that sound , that dreadful sound , have seem to be follow right at his heel , and he have suddenly discover that he do n't need to stop after all .
But have reach the dear Old Briar-patch Peter stop and pant for breath while he anxiously watch for the appearance of some unknown enemy follow him .
It be then that he realize that that sound come from the Big River , and that whoever make it have not leave the Big River at all .
It make Peter feel a wee bit foolish a he think how he have be sure that there be danger right at his very heels all the way home , when all the time there have n't be any danger at all .
Peter sit there and listen , and despite the fact that he now felt absolutely safe , the cold chill run over him every time he hear it .
It be a voice ; Peter be sure of that .
It be a voice , but such a voice a Peter never in his life have hear before .
It be quite a bad if not bad than the voice of Old Man Coyote .
In a way it remind him of Old Man Coyote 's voice , but while Old Man Coyote 's voice sound like many voice in one , it be not so fearsome a this voice , for this voice sound like a human voice , yet be n't .
Something inside Peter tell him that it be n't a human voice , in spite of it sounding so .
The next morning Peter run over to the Smiling Pool to ask Grandfather Frog if he have any idea who could have such a voice a that .
When he try to tell Grandfather Frog what that voice be like , he could n't .
He just could n't describe it .
`` It be the lonesome and crazy sound I 've ever hear , '' declare Peter , `` and that be all I can tell you .
It be crazy than the voice of Old Man Coyote . ''
`` That be all you need tell me , '' chuckle Grandfather Frog .
`` That be the voice of Dippy the Loon .
And let me tell you something , Peter : you be not the first one to think his voice have a crazy sound .
Oh , my , no !
No , indeed !
Why , a lot of people think Dippy be crazy , and when any one do queer thing they say of him that he be ` crazy a a Loon . '
`` But be he crazy ? ''
ask Peter .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
exclaim Grandfather Frog .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Not half so crazy a you be , Peter , come over here to the Smiling Pool in broad daylight .
He like to be think crazy , just a his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather do before him , that 's all .
Everybody think his great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather be crazy , and it pay Mr. Loon to have them think so .
So he do his best to make them keep think so . ''
`` Tell me about it .
Do please tell me about it , Grandfather Frog , '' beg Peter .
`` Please , please , please . ''
Now how could Grandfather Frog resist that ?
He could n't .
He do n't even try to .
He just clear his throat once or twice and begin .
`` Once on a time , long , long ago , live the very first of all the Loons , the ever-and-ever-and-ever-so-great-grandfather of Dippy , whose voice frighten you so last night . ''
`` How do you know it frighten me ? ''
exclaim Peter , for he have take care not to tell Grandfather Frog anything about that .
Grandfather Frog chuckle and go right on with his story .
`` Right from the begin Mr. Loon be a mighty independent fellow .
It do n't take him long to find out that Old Mother Nature have too much to do to waste any time on those who do n't try to take care of themselves , and that those would live long who be smart and most independent .
He have sharp eye , have old Mr. Loon , just a Dippy have today , and he use them to good account .
He saw at once that with so many bird and animal live on the land it be likely to get crowd after a while , and that when such become the case , it be go to be mighty hard work for some to get a living .
So Mr. Loon go to Mother Nature and tell her that if she have no objection he would like a pair of swim foot and would live on the water .
`` Now Old Mother Nature have just fit out Mr . Duck with a pair of webbed foot that he might swim , so she be quite prepared to fit Mr. Loon out in like manner . '' '
I suppose , ' say she , ` that you want a bill like Mr . Duck 's . '
`` Mr. Loon shake his head .
` Thank you , ' say he , ` but I would prefer a sharp bill to a broad one . ' ''
` How be that ? '
exclaim Mother Nature .
` Mr . Duck have be delight with his bill ever since I give it to him . ' ''
` And with good reason , ' reply Mr. Loon .
` Did I propose to live a Mr . Duck live , I should want a bill just like his , but I find that fish be more to my liking .
Also I have notice that there be few who eat fish . '
`` So Mother Nature give him the kind of bill he want , and Mr. Loon go about his business .
He manage to get fish enough to keep from go hungry , but he find that the only way he could do it be to sit perfectly still until a fish swam within reach and then strike swiftly .
In fact , his fishing be much like that of Mr. Heron , save that the latter stood instead of sit .
Success be chiefly the result of luck and patience .
`` Now this sort of thing be not at all to the liking of Mr. Loon .
He glory in his strength and he want to hunt for his fish and catch them in fair chase instead of wait for them to unsuspectingly swim within reach .
He practise and practise swimming and diving , but he soon make up his mind that he never would be able to move through the water fast enough to catch a fish unless there be some change .
He watch the fish swim , and he saw that the power which drive them through the water come from their tail .
Mr. Loon grow very thoughtful .
`` The next time Mother Nature come around to see how everybody be get on , to hear complaint , and to grant such request a seemed wise , Mr. Loon be on hand .
` If you please , ' say he when his turn come , ' I would like my leg move back to the low end of my body . '
`` Mother Nature be surprise .
She look it .
` But you 'll hardly be able to walk at all with your leg there ! '
she exclaim .
`` Mr. Loon say that he know that , and that he do n't want to walk .
He would far rather spend all his time on the water .
So Mother Nature grant his request .
Mr. Loon thank her and start for the water .
He could n't keep his balance .
He simply flop along , while all his neighbor , who have hear his queer request , jeer at him and call him crazy .
He just do n't pay any attention , but flop along until he reach the water .
Then he swim away swiftly .
When he be quite by himself with none to see , he dive , and a he have hop , he find that he could drive himself through the water at great speed .
He practise a while and then he go fishing .
When he catch his first fish in a fair chase , he be so delighted that he shriek and shout and laugh in the wild fashion far into the night .
And those who have hear his strange request and think him crazy be sure of it , a they listen to his wild laughter .
`` So little by little it be spread about among all the other people that Mr. Loon be crazy , and he be left much to himself , which be just what he desire .
He be quick to note that the sound of his voice send shiver over some of his neighbor , and so he would shriek and laugh just to drive them away .
It please him to have them think him crazy , and he keep it up .
`` So it be with Dippy today , and last night you run from the voice of a crazy Loon who be n't crazy at all , but like to make people think he be , '' conclude Grandfather Frog .
XVI WHERE BIG-HORN GOT HIS CURVED HORNS It be Digger the Badger who tell Peter Rabbit the story of the great Ram who be the first of all the wild Sheep who live on the top of the mountain bound the great plain of the Far West on which Digger be bear .
It happen that Farmer Brown 's flock of Sheep be graze in the Old Pasture in plain sight of Digger a he sit on his doorstep watch his shadow grow longer .
At the head of the flock be a Ram whose horn curve around in almost a circle , and whom Peter Rabbit often have admire .
Peter happen along a Digger sit there on his doorstep watch his shadow grow longer , so he sit down at a safe and respectful distance and help Digger watch his shadow grow longer .
Peter delight in do thing like this , because it be n't hard work at all .
It be only when there be real work concern that Peter lose interest .
A lot of people be just like Peter in this respect .
Peter gaze over at the Old Pasture and he , too , saw Farmer Brown 's Sheep and the big Ram with the curving horn at his head .
For a long time Peter have greatly admire those horn , though he never have tell any one so .
He have admire those horn because they be different from any other horn Peter ever have see .
They look perfectly useless for fight because they curve so that the point never could be make to hurt any one , but just the same Peter admire them .
Now a he watch he speak aloud , without think what he be do .
`` I wish I have a pair of horn like those , '' say he wistfully .
Digger the Badger stop watch his shadow , and turn to stare at Peter .
Then he laugh until finally he choke .
Peter look at him in surprise .
`` What 's the matter with you , Mr. Badger ? ''
ask he .
`` What be there to laugh at ? ''
`` Only you , Peter .
Only you , '' reply Digger faintly , for he have laugh so hard that he have almost lose his voice .
`` I be afraid you would find a pair of horn like those rather heavy , Peter , rather heavy . ''
Peter grin .
`` Of course I do n't really mean that , '' say he .
`` Of course not .
I be just think how nice it would be to have such fine horn , if one be big enough to have horn .
I do n't believe there be any other such horn in all the Great World . ''
`` And that show how little you know about the Great World , Peter , '' retort Digger the Badger .
`` Did you ever see such horn before ? ''
demand Peter .
`` No , I never do , '' confess Digger , `` but I 've hear my grandfather tell of Sheep that live on the top of the great mountain as free a Light-foot the Deer or any other of the Green Forest people , and with horn so large that they , the Sheep , be call Big-Horns .
From what I have hear my grandfather say , those horn over there of Mr. Ram 's be nothing to brag about .
No , Sir , they be nothing to brag about .
One of those wild , free cousin of Mr. Ram over there would laugh at those horn .
But they be funny horn , and they 've be like that always since the day of the first great Ram , the great-great-ever-so-great-grandfather of all the Sheep , so my grandfather tell me .
It be way back in those long-ago day that they become curve and quite useless for fight , and all because of old Big-Horn go about with a chip on his shoulder . ''
Peter prick up his ear .
`` That be a funny thing for Big-Horn to be do , '' say he .
`` What under the sun do he have a chip on his shoulder for ?
And what harm be there in that , even if he do ? ''
Once more Digger begin to laugh .
`` Peter , '' say he , `` you certainly be the funny fellow I know .
Of course old Big-Horn do n't really have a chip on his shoulder .
That be just a saying , Peter , just a say .
When any one go about look for trouble and ready to quarrel at the least pretext , he be say to be carry a chip on his shoulder and dare anybody to knock it off . ''
`` Oh ! ''
say Peter .
`` And so , '' continue Digger , `` Big-Horn do n't have anything to do with a really , truly chip , but just go about always try to get somebody to fight with him .
It be n't that Big-Horn be ugly .
He be n't .
You see Old Mother Nature have give him great strength .
Yes , Sir , for his size Big-Horn be very strong , and in that strength be take great pride .
And Mother Nature have give him a pair of very large and strong horn with which to defend himself if there should be need .
Those horn be almost straight , and with Big-Horn 's great strength behind them , they be truly dangerous weapon .
He do n't think of that .
No , Sir , he do n't think of that .
He be just brim full of life , and he dearly love to try his strength against the strength of others .
It get so that the instant he saw anybody , down would go his head and at them he would go full tilt .
`` It be great fun -- for him .
Sometimes he get the bad of it , a when Old King Bear step aside at the very last instant and hit him such a clip with his great paw that Big-Horn be send rolling over and over and lose his breath for a few minute .
But usually it be the other who get the bad of it , for those great , sharp-pointed horn of Big-Horn 's tore and hurt .
Indeed , even when he try to be gentle with those small than himself he be forever hurt some one .
`` Finally some of his neighbor wish to go to Old Mother Nature and complain about Big-Horn , but others be against this plan because they know that Old Mother Nature be quite load down with care and worry a it be .
So instead they call a meeting to which everybody except Big-Horn be invite .
If Big-Horn could have hear all that be say about him , his ear surely would have burn .
Every one be of the opinion that something must be do , but just what no one could suggest .
At last , just when it seem that the meeting would break up without anything be do , Old Man Coyote step forward .
Now Old Man Coyote already be know a a very clever fellow , more clever even than Mr. Fox , though it would never have do to say so where it would get back to the ear of Mr. Fox . ''
` Friends and neighbor , ' say Old Man Coyote , ` it seem to me a very simple matter to teach Neighbor Big-Horn a lesson that he will not soon forget .
Being rather bashful , I have n't like to suggest it before , because I think surely some one else would do it .
I suggest that some one be select to fight Big-Horn , and when that one can fight no longer , some one else be select to fight him , and so on until he get tire , and some one can whip him .
Then I think he will have have enough of fight . '
`` Up speak Mr. Fox and he wink at his neighbor on the right and he wink at his neighbor on the left .
` That be a very good idea of Neighbor Coyote 's , ' say he , ' a very good idea indeed , and I suggest that Mr. Coyote be select for the honor of be the first one to fight Big-Horn . '
Mr. Fox grin in a sly way , and everybody else grin , for everybody know that Old Man Coyote never be know to fight when there be a chance to run away .
So with one accord everybody agree with Mr. Fox , and Old Man Coyote be select a the first one to face Big-Horn .
To everybody 's surprise , Old Man Coyote make no objection .
Instead he express himself a highly honor , and say that he hop to do so well that there would be no need for others to fight Big-Horn .
So it be arrange that Big-Horn should be invite to fight Old Man Coyote the very next day .
`` You may be sure that everybody be on hand the next day to see that fight .
No one expect Old Man Coyote to appear .
But he do .
Yes , Sir , he do .
He be right on hand at the appointed time .
Big-Horn have n't be tell whom he be to fight , and when he find that it be Old Man Coyote , he be disappoint .
You see , there be no anger in Big-Horn 's fighting ; he fight just for the love of use his great strength and big horn .
Fighting be fun to him , and he want some one who would stand up to him .
As soon a it be explain to him that when he have dispose of Old Man Coyote there would be some one else for him to fight -LRB- Mr . Deer have offer to be the next -RRB- , he felt well .
Mr . Deer have horn and be somewhere near his size .
`` Old Man Coyote slip around until he have his back to a great rock .
` I 'm ready any time , ' say he .
`` Big-Horn , who have be stamp with impatience , lower his head so that his horn point straight at Old Man Coyote .
He grin a he do it , for he saw that with that great rock behind him , Old Man Coyote would have no chance to run away a he always have do in the past .
Everybody else saw the same thing , and wonder what could have happen to make Old Man Coyote so stupid a to do such a thing a that , he who always have be account so clever .
But they have hardly time to think of this , for with a snort Big-Horn bound forward .
All the others hold their breath a they saw those great horn drive straight at Old Man Coyote , who be crouch with his back to the great rock .
Then everybody close their eye for a second , for nobody want to see Old Man Coyote kill , and everybody know that that be what be go to happen .
`` Then there be a crash , and everybody 's eye fly open .
There lay Big-Horn on the ground , look mighty puzzle , a if he be n't quite sure what have happen .
And there sat Old Man Coyote , grin at him !
They be still star at Old Man Coyote a if they could n't believe their own eye when some one cry , ` Look at the horn of Big-Horn ! '
`` Instead of be long and straight , those great horn be curve over and round into almost a circle , and there be no longer danger from their sharp point .
What have happen ?
Why , at just the right instant Old Man Coyote have leap over Big-Horn , and Big-Horn have butt into that great rock with all his might .
He have hit so hard , biff !
bang !
that he have bend his horn , just a crafty , clever Old Man Coyote have hop he would .
`` When Old Mother Nature heard of the affair and saw those bent horn , she chuckle at the cleverness of Old Man Coyote and decide to leave those horn just a they be for the safety of Big-Horn 's neighbor .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Mother_West_Wind_'Why'_Stories.txt.out
I WHY STRIPED CHIPMUNK IS PROUD OF HIS STRIPES The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind be great friend of Striped Chipmunk .
They hurry to call on him the very first thing every morning after Old Mother West Wind have bring them down from the Purple Hills .
They always beg him to stop and play with them , but often he refuse .
But he do it in such a merry way and with such a twinkle in his eye that the Merry Little Breezes never get cross because he wo n't play .
No , Sir , they never get cross .
If anything , they think just a little bit more of Striped Chipmunk because he wo n't play .
You see , they know that the reason he wo n't play be because he have work to do , and Striped Chipmunk believe and say : `` When there be work for me to do The sooner start , sooner through . ''
So every morning they ask him to play , and every morning they laugh when he say he have too much to do .
Then they rumple up his hair and pull his whisker and give him last tag and race down to the Smiling Pool to see Grandfather Frog and beg him for a story .
Now Grandfather Frog be very old and very wise , and he know all about the day when the world be young .
When he be feel just right , he dearly love to tell about those long-ago day .
One morning the Merry Little Breezes find Grandfather Frog sit as usual on his big green lily-pad , and they know by the way he fold his hand across his white and yellow waistcoat that it be full of foolish green fly .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , please do tell u why it be that Striped Chipmunk have such beautiful stripe on his coat , '' beg one of the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Chug-a-rum !
They be stripe of honor , '' reply Grandfather Frog , in his deep , gruff voice .
`` Honor !
Oh , how lovely !
Do tell u about it !
Please do ! ''
beg the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
begin Grandfather Frog , his big , goggly eyes twinkling .
`` Once upon a time , when the world be young , old Mr. Chipmunk , the grandfather a thousand time remove of Striped Chipmunk , live very much a Striped Chipmunk do now .
He be always very busy , very busy , indeed , and it be always about his own affair .
` By attend strictly to my own business , I have no time to meddle with the affair of my neighbor , and so I keep out of trouble , ' say old Mr. Chipmunk , '' `` Just what Striped Chipmunk say now , '' break in one of the Merry Little Breezes .
`` That show that he be just as wise a be his grandfather a thousand time remove , about whom I be tell you , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` Old Mr. Chipmunk wear just a little , plain brown coat .
It do n't worry him a bit , not a bit , that his coat be just plain brown .
It keep him just as warm a if it be a beautiful red , like that of Mr. Fox , or handsome black and white , like that of Mr . Skunk .
He be perfectly satisfy with his little plain brown coat and take the best of care of it .
`` One day a he be hurry home to dinner , he climb up on an old stump to look around and make sure that the way be clear .
