They be just set out again , but now the horse be not able to draw the coach .
They have six horse already , and now they put in eight , and then ten , and then twelve , but the more they put in , and the more the coachman whip them , the less good it do ; and the coach never stir from the spot .
It be already begin to be late in the day , and to church they must and would go , so everyone who be in the palace be in a state of distress .
Then the bailiff speak up and say : `` Out there in the gilded cottage in the thicket dwell a girl , and if you could but get her to lend you her calf I know it could draw the coach , even if it be as heavy a a mountain . ''
They all think that it be ridiculous to be draw to church by a calf , but there be nothing else for it but to send a messenger once more , and beg as prettily a they could , on behalf of the King , that she would let them have the loan of the calf that the bailiff have tell them about .
The Master-maid let them have it immediately -- this time also she would not say `` no . ''
Then they harness the calf to see if the coach would move ; and away it go , over rough and smooth , over stock and stone , so that they could scarcely breathe , and sometimes they be on the ground , and sometimes up in the air ; and when they come to the church the coach begin to go round and round like a spinning-wheel , and it be with the utmost difficulty and danger that they be able to get out of the coach and into the church .
And when they go back again the coach go quick still , so that most of them do not know how they get back to the palace at all .
When they have seat themselves at the table the Prince who have be in service with the giant say that he think they ought to have invite the maiden who have lend them the shovel-handle , and the porch-door , and the calf up to the palace , `` for , '' say he , `` if we have not get these three thing , we should never have get away from the palace . ''
The King also think that this be both just and proper , so he send five of his best men down to the gild hut , to greet the maiden courteously from the King , and to beg her to be so good a to come up to the palace to dinner at mid-day .
`` Greet the King , and tell him that , if he be too good to come to me , I be too good to come to him , '' reply the Master-maid .
So the King have to go himself , and the Master-maid go with him immediately , and , a the King believe that she be more than she appear to be , he seat her in the place of honor by the young bridegroom .
When they have sit at the table for a short time , the Master-maid take out the cock , and the hen , and the golden apple which she have bring away with her from the giant 's house , and set them on the table in front of her , and instantly the cock and the hen begin to fight with each other for the golden apple .
`` Oh !
look how those two there be fight for the golden apple , '' say the King 's son .
`` Yes , and so do we two fight to get out that time when we be in the mountain , '' say the Master-maid .
So the Prince know her again , and you may imagine how delighted he be .
He order the troll-witch who have roll the apple to him to be tear in piece between four-and-twenty horse , so that not a bit of her be leave , and then for the first time they begin really to keep the wedding , and , weary a they be , the sheriff , the attorney , and the bailiff keep it up too .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Asbjornsen and Moe .
WHY THE SEA IS SALT Once upon a time , long , long ago , there be two brother , the one rich and the other poor .
When Christmas Eve come , the poor one have not a bite in the house , either of meat or bread ; so he go to his brother , and beg him , in God 's name , to give him something for Christmas Day .
It be by no mean the first time that the brother have be force to give something to him , and he be not well please at be ask now than he generally be .
`` If you will do what I ask you , you shall have a whole ham , '' say he .
The poor one immediately thank him , and promise this .
`` Well , here be the ham , and now you must go straight to Dead Man 's Hall , '' say the rich brother , throw the ham to him .
`` Well , I will do what I have promise , '' say the other , and he take the ham and set off .
He go on and on for the livelong day , and at nightfall he come to a place where there be a bright light .
`` I have no doubt this be the place , '' think the man with the ham .
An old man with a long white beard be stand in the outhouse , chop Yule log .
`` Good-evening , '' say the man with the ham .
`` Good-evening to you .
Where be you go at this late hour ? ''
say the man .
`` I be go to Dead Man 's Hall , if only I be on the right track , '' answer the poor man .
`` Oh !
yes , you be right enough , for it be here , '' say the old man .
`` When you get inside they will all want to buy your ham , for they do n't get much meat to eat there ; but you must not sell it unless you can get the hand-mill which stand behind the door for it .
When you come out again I will teach you how to stop the hand-mill , which be useful for almost everything . ''
So the man with the ham thank the other for his good advice , and rap at the door .
When he get in , everything happen just a the old man have say it would : all the people , great and small , come round him like ant on an ant-hill , and each try to outbid the other for the ham .
`` By right my old woman and I ought to have it for our Christmas dinner , but , since you have set your heart upon it , I must just give it up to you , '' say the man .
`` But , if I sell it , I will have the hand-mill which be stand there behind the door . ''
At first they would not hear of this , and haggle and bargain with the man , but he stick to what he have say , and the people be force to give him the hand-mill .
When the man come out again into the yard , he ask the old wood-cutter how he be to stop the hand-mill , and when he have learn that , he thank him and set off home with all the speed he could , but do not get there until after the clock have strike twelve on Christmas Eve .
`` Where in the world have you be ? ''
say the old woman .
`` Here I have sit wait hour after hour , and have not even two stick to lay across each other under the Christmas porridge-pot . ''
`` Oh !
I could not come before ; I have something of importance to see about , and a long way to go , too ; but now you shall just see ! ''
say the man , and then he set the hand-mill on the table , and bid it first grind light , then a table-cloth , and then meat , and beer , and everything else that be good for a Christmas Eve 's supper ; and the mill ground all that he order .
`` Bless me ! ''
say the old woman a one thing after another appear ; and she want to know where her husband have get the mill from , but he would not tell her that .
`` Never mind where I get it ; you can see that it be a good one , and the water that turn it will never freeze , '' say the man .
So he ground meat and drink , and all kind of good thing , to last all Christmas-tide , and on the third day he invite all his friend to come to a feast .
Now when the rich brother saw all that there be at the banquet and in the house , he be both vexed and angry , for he grudge everything his brother have .
`` On Christmas Eve he be so poor that he come to me and beg for a trifle , for God 's sake , and now he give a feast a if he be both a count and a king ! ''
thought he .
`` But , for heaven 's sake , tell me where you get your rich from , '' say he to his brother .
`` From behind the door , '' say he who own the mill , for he do not choose to satisfy his brother on that point ; but later in the evening , when he have take a drop too much , he could not refrain from tell how he have come by the hand-mill .
`` There you see what have bring me all my wealth ! ''
say he , and bring out the mill , and make it grind first one thing and then another .
When the brother saw that , he insist on have the mill , and after a great deal of persuasion get it ; but he have to give three hundred dollar for it , and the poor brother be to keep it till the haymaking be over , for he think : `` If I keep it as long a that , I can make it grind meat and drink that will last many a long year . ''
During that time you may imagine that the mill do not grow rusty , and when hay-harvest come the rich brother get it , but the other have take good care not to teach him how to stop it .
It be even when the rich man get the mill home , and in the morning he bid the old woman go out and spread the hay after the mower , and he would attend to the house himself that day , he say .
So , when dinner-time draw near , he set the mill on the kitchen-table , and say : `` Grind herring and milk pottage , and do it both quickly and well . ''
So the mill begin to grind herring and milk pottage , and first all the dish and tub be fill , and then it come out all over the kitchen-floor .
The man twist and turn it , and do all he could to make the mill stop , but , howsoever he turn it and screw it , the mill go on grinding , and in a short time the pottage rise so high that the man be like to be drown .
So he throw open the parlor door , but it be not long before the mill have grind the parlor full too , and it be with difficulty and danger that the man could go through the stream of pottage and get hold of the door-latch .
When he get the door open , he do not stay long in the room , but run out , and the herring and pottage come after him , and it stream out over both farm and field .
Now the old woman , who be out spread the hay , begin to think dinner be long in coming , and say to the woman and the mower : `` Though the master do not call u home , we may as well go .
It may be that he find he be not good at make pottage and I should do well to help him . ''
So they begin to straggle homeward , but when they have get a little way up the hill they meet the herring and pottage and bread , all pour forth and wind about one over the other , and the man himself in front of the flood .
`` Would to heaven that each of you have a hundred stomach !
Take care that you be not drown in the pottage ! ''
he cry a he go by them a if Mischief be at his heel , down to where his brother dwelt .
Then he beg him , for God 's sake , to take the mill back again , and that in an instant , for , say he : `` If it grind one hour more the whole district will be destroy by herring and pottage . ''
But the brother would not take it until the other pay him three hundred dollar , and that he be oblige to do .
Now the poor brother have both the money and the mill again .
So it be not long before he have a farmhouse much fine than that in which his brother live , but the mill grind him so much money that he cover it with plate of gold ; and the farmhouse lay close by the sea-shore , so it shone and glitter far out to sea .
Everyone who sail by there now have to be put in to visit the rich man in the gold farmhouse , and everyone want to see the wonderful mill , for the report of it spread far and wide , and there be no one who have not hear tell of it .
After a long , long time come also a skipper who wish to see the mill .
He ask if it could make salt .
`` Yes , it could make salt , '' say he who own it , and when the skipper heard that , he wish with all his might and main to have the mill , let it cost what it might , for , he think , if he have it , he would get off have to sail far away over the perilous sea for freight of salt .
At first the man would not hear of part with it , but the skipper beg and pray , and at last the man sell it to him , and get many , many thousand dollar for it .
When the skipper have get the mill on his back he do not stay there long , for he be so afraid that the man would change his mind , and he have no time to ask how he be to stop it grind , but get on board his ship as fast a he could .
When he have go a little way out to sea he take the mill on deck .
`` Grind salt , and grind both quickly and well , '' say the skipper .
So the mill begin to grind salt , till it spout out like water , and when the skipper have get the ship fill he want to stop the mill , but whichsoever way he turn it , and how much soever he try , it go on grinding , and the heap of salt grow high and high , until at last the ship sank .
There lie the mill at the bottom of the sea , and still , day by day , it grind on ; and that be why the sea be salt .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Asbjornsen and Moe .
THE MASTER CAT ; OR , PUSS IN BOOTS There be a miller who leave no more estate to the three son he have than his mill , his as , and his cat .
The partition be soon make .
Neither scrivener nor attorney be send for .
They would soon have eat up all the poor patrimony .
The eldest have the mill , the second the as , and the young nothing but the cat .
The poor young fellow be quite comfortless at have so poor a lot .
`` My brother , '' say he , `` may get their living handsomely enough by join their stock together ; but for my part , when I have eat up my cat , and make me a muff of his skin , I must die of hunger . ''
The Cat , who hear all this , but make a if he do not , say to him with a grave and serious air : `` Do not thus afflict yourself , my good master .
You have nothing else to do but to give me a bag and get a pair of boot make for me that I may scamper through the dirt and the bramble , and you shall see that you have not so bad a portion in me a you imagine . ''
The Cat 's master do not build very much upon what he say .
He have often see him play a great many cunning trick to catch rat and mouse , a when he use to hang by the heel , or hide himself in the meal , and make a if he be dead ; so that he do not altogether despair of his afford him some help in his miserable condition .
When the Cat have what he ask for he boot himself very gallantly , and put his bag about his neck , he hold the string of it in his two forepaw and go into a warren where be great abundance of rabbit .
He put bran and sow-thistle into his bag , and stretch out at length , a if he have be dead , he wait for some young rabbit , not yet acquaint with the deceit of the world , to come and rummage his bag for what he have put into it .
Scarce be he lie down but he have what he want .
A rash and foolish young rabbit jump into his bag , and Monsieur Puss , immediately draw close the string , take and kill him without pity .
Proud of his prey , he go with it to the palace and ask to speak with his majesty .
He be show upstairs into the King 's apartment , and , make a low reverence , say to him : `` I have bring you , sir , a rabbit of the warren , which my noble lord the Marquis of Carabas '' -LRB- for that be the title which pus be pleased to give his master -RRB- `` have command me to present to your majesty from him . ''
`` Tell thy master , '' say the king , `` that I thank him and that he do me a great deal of pleasure . ''
Another time he go and hide himself among some stand corn , hold still his bag open , and when a brace of partridge run into it he draw the string and so catch them both .
He go and make a present of these to the king , a he have do before of the rabbit which he take in the warren .
The king , in like manner , receive the partridge with great pleasure , and order him some money for drink .
The Cat continue for two or three month thus to carry his Majesty , from time to time , game of his master 's taking .
One day in particular , when he know for certain that he be to take the air along the river-side , with his daughter , the most beautiful princess in the world , he say to his master : `` If you will follow my advice your fortune be make .
You have nothing else to do but go and wash yourself in the river , in that part I shall show you , and leave the rest to me . ''
The Marquis of Carabas do what the Cat advise him to , without know why or wherefore .
While he be wash the King pass by , and the Cat begin to cry out : `` Help !
help !
My Lord Marquis of Carabas be go to be drown . ''
At this noise the King put his head out of the coach-window , and , find it be the Cat who have so often bring him such good game , he command his guard to run immediately to the assistance of his Lordship the Marquis of Carabas .
While they be draw the poor Marquis out of the river , the Cat come up to the coach and tell the King that , while his master be wash , there come by some rogue , who go off with his clothes , though he have cry out : `` Thieves !
thief ! ''
several time , as loud a he could .
This cunning Cat have hide them under a great stone .
The King immediately command the officer of his wardrobe to run and fetch one of his best suit for the Lord Marquis of Carabas .
The King caress him after a very extraordinary manner , and a the fine clothes he have give him extremely set off his good mien -LRB- for he be well make and very handsome in his person -RRB- , the King 's daughter take a secret inclination to him , and the Marquis of Carabas have no sooner cast two or three respectful and somewhat tender glance but she fell in love with him to distraction .
The King would need have him come into the coach and take part of the airing .
The Cat , quite overjoy to see his project begin to succeed , march on before , and , meet with some countryman , who be mow a meadow , he say to them : `` Good people , you who be mow , if you do not tell the King that the meadow you mow belongs to my Lord Marquis of Carabas , you shall be chop as small a herb for the pot . ''
The King do not fail ask of the mower to whom the meadow they be mow belong .
`` To my Lord Marquis of Carabas , '' answer they altogether , for the Cat 's threat have make them terribly afraid .
`` You see , sir , '' say the Marquis , `` this be a meadow which never fail to yield a plentiful harvest every year . ''
The Master Cat , who go still on before , meet with some reaper , and say to them : `` Good people , you who be reap , if you do not tell the King that all this corn belong to the Marquis of Carabas , you shall be chop as small a herb for the pot . ''
The King , who pass by a moment after , would need know to whom all that corn , which he then saw , do belong .
`` To my Lord Marquis of Carabas , '' reply the reaper , and the King be very well pleased with it , as well a the Marquis , whom he congratulate thereupon .
The Master Cat , who go always before , say the same word to all he meet , and the King be astonish at the vast estate of my Lord Marquis of Carabas .
Monsieur Puss come at last to a stately castle , the master of which be an ogre , the richest have ever be know ; for all the land which the King have then go over belong to this castle .
The Cat , who have take care to inform himself who this ogre be and what he could do , ask to speak with him , say he could not pass so near his castle without have the honor of pay his respect to him .
The ogre receive him as civilly a an ogre could do , and make him sit down .
`` I have be assure , '' say the Cat , `` that you have the gift of be able to change yourself into all sort of creature you have a mind to ; you can , for example , transform yourself into a lion , or elephant , and the like . ''
`` That be true , '' answer the ogre very briskly ; `` and to convince you , you shall see me now become a lion . ''
Puss be so sadly terrify at the sight of a lion so near him that he immediately get into the gutter , not without abundance of trouble and danger , because of his boot , which be of no use at all to him in walk upon the tile .
A little while after , when Puss saw that the ogre have resume his natural form , he come down , and own he have be very much frighten .
`` I have be , moreover , inform , '' say the Cat , `` but I know not how to believe it , that you have also the power to take on you the shape of the small animal ; for example , to change yourself into a rat or a mouse ; but I must own to you I take this to be impossible . ''
`` Impossible ! ''
cry the ogre ; `` you shall see that presently . ''
And at the same time he change himself into a mouse , and begin to run about the floor .
Puss no sooner perceive this but he fell upon him and eat him up .
Meanwhile the King , who saw , a he pass , this fine castle of the ogre 's , have a mind to go into it .
Puss , who hear the noise of his Majesty 's coach running over the draw-bridge , run out , and say to the King : `` Your Majesty be welcome to this castle of my Lord Marquis of Carabas . ''
`` What !
my Lord Marquis , '' cry the King , `` and do this castle also belong to you ?
There can be nothing fine than this court and all the stately building which surround it ; let u go into it , if you please . ''
The Marquis give his hand to the Princess , and follow the King , who go first .
They pass into a spacious hall , where they find a magnificent collation , which the ogre have prepare for his friend , who be that very day to visit him , but dare not to enter , know the King be there .
His Majesty be perfectly charm with the good quality of my Lord Marquis of Carabas , a be his daughter , who have fall violently in love with him , and , see the vast estate he possess , say to him , after have drunk five or six glass : `` It will be owe to yourself only , my Lord Marquis , if you be not my son-in-law . ''
The Marquis , make several low bow , accept the honor which his Majesty confer upon him , and forthwith , that very same day , marry the Princess .
Puss become a great lord , and never run after mouse any more but only for his diversion .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Charles Perrault .
FELICIA AND THE POT OF PINKS Once upon a time there be a poor laborer who , feel that he have not much longer to live , wish to divide his possession between his son and daughter , whom he love dearly .
So he call them to him , and say : `` Your mother bring me a her dowry two stool and a straw bed ; I have , besides , a hen , a pot of pink , and a silver ring , which be give me by a noble lady who once lodge in my poor cottage .
When she go away she say to me : '' ` Be careful of my gift , good man ; see that you do not lose the ring or forget to water the pink .
As for your daughter , I promise you that she shall be more beautiful than anyone you ever saw in your life ; call her Felicia , and when she grow up give her the ring and the pot of pink to console her for her poverty . '
Take them both , then , my dear child , '' he add , `` and your brother shall have everything else . ''
The two child seem quite content , and when their father die they weep for him , and divide his possession a he have tell them .
Felicia believe that her brother love her , but when she sit down upon one of the stool he say angrily : `` Keep your pot of pink and your ring , but let my thing alone .
I like order in my house . ''
Felicia , who be very gentle , say nothing , but stand up cry quietly ; while Bruno , for that be her brother 's name , sit comfortably by the fire .
Presently , when supper-time come , Bruno have a delicious egg , and he throw the shell to Felicia , say : `` There , that be all I can give you ; if you do n't like it , go out and catch frog ; there be plenty of them in the marsh close by . ''
Felicia do not answer , but she cry more bitterly than ever , and go away to her own little room .
She find it fill with the sweet scent of the pink , and , go up to them , she say sadly : `` Beautiful pink , you be so sweet and so pretty , you be the only comfort I have leave .
Be very sure that I will take care of you , and water you well , and never allow any cruel hand to tear you from your stem . ''
As she lean over them she notice that they be very dry .
So take her pitcher , she run off in the clear moonlight to the fountain , which be at some distance .
When she reach it she sit down upon the brink to rest , but she have hardly do so when she saw a stately lady come toward her , surround by number of attendant .
Six maid of honor carry her train , and she lean upon the arm of another .
When they come near the fountain a canopy be spread for her , under which be place a sofa of cloth-of-gold , and presently a dainty supper be serve , upon a table cover with dish of gold and crystal , while the wind in the tree and the fall water of the fountain murmur the soft music .
Felicia be hide in the shade , too much astonish by all she saw to venture to move ; but in a few moment the Queen say : `` I fancy I see a shepherdess near that tree ; bid her come hither . ''
So Felicia come forward and salute the Queen timidly , but with so much grace that all be surprise .
`` What be you do here , my pretty child ? ''
ask the Queen .
`` Are you not afraid of robber ? ''
`` Ah !
madam , '' say Felicia , `` a poor shepherdess who have nothing to lose do not fear robber . ''
`` You be not very rich , then ? ''
say the Queen , smile .
`` I be so poor , '' answer Felicia , `` that a pot of pink and a silver ring be my only possession in the world . ''
`` But you have a heart , '' say the Queen .
`` What should you say if anybody want to steal that ? ''
`` I do not know what it be like to lose one 's heart , madam , '' she reply ; `` but I have always hear that without a heart one can not live , and if it be broken one must die ; and in spite of my poverty I should be sorry not to live . ''
`` You be quite right to take care of your heart , pretty one , '' say the Queen .
`` But tell me , have you sup ? ''
`` No , madam , '' answer Felicia ; `` my brother ate all the supper there be . ''
Then the Queen order that a place should be make for her at the table , and herself load Felicia 's plate with good thing ; but she be too much astonish to be hungry .
`` I want to know what you be do at the fountain so late ? ''
say the Queen presently .
`` I come to fetch a pitcher of water for my pink , madam , '' she answer , stoop to pick up the pitcher which stand beside her ; but when she show it to the Queen she be amaze to see that it have turn to gold , all sparkle with great diamond , and the water , of which it be full , be more fragrant than the sweet rose .
She be afraid to take it until the Queen say : `` It be yours , Felicia ; go and water your pink with it , and let it remind you that the Queen of the Woods be your friend . ''
The shepherdess throw herself at the Queen 's foot , and thank her humbly for her gracious word .
`` Ah !
madam , '' she cry , `` if I might beg you to stay here a moment I would run and fetch my pot of pink for you -- they could not fall into good hand . ''
`` Go , Felicia , '' say the Queen , stroke her cheek softly ; `` I will wait here until you come back . ''
So Felicia take up her pitcher and ran to her little room , but while she have be away Bruno have go in and take the pot of pink , leave a great cabbage in it place .
When she saw the unlucky cabbage Felicia be much distress , and do not know what to do ; but at last she run back to the fountain , and , kneel before the Queen , say : `` Madam , Bruno have steal my pot of pink , so I have nothing but my silver ring ; but I beg you to accept it a a proof of my gratitude . ''
`` But if I take your ring , my pretty shepherdess , '' say the Queen , `` you will have nothing leave ; and what will you do then ? ''
`` Ah !
madam , '' she answer simply , `` if I have your friendship I shall do very well . ''
So the Queen take the ring and put it on her finger , and mount her chariot , which be make of coral stud with emerald , and drawn by six milk-white horse .
And Felicia look after her until the winding of the forest path hid her from her sight , and then she go back to the cottage , think over all the wonderful thing that have happen .
The first thing she do when she reach her room be to throw the cabbage out of the window .
But she be very much surprise to hear an odd little voice cry out : `` Oh !
I be half kill ! ''
and could not tell where it come from , because cabbage do not generally speak .
As soon a it be light , Felicia , who be very unhappy about her pot of pink , go out to look for it , and the first thing she find be the unfortunate cabbage .
She give it a push with her foot , say : `` What be you do here , and how dared you put yourself in the place of my pot of pink ? ''
`` If I have n't be carry , '' reply the cabbage , `` you may be very sure that I should n't have think of go there . ''
It make her shiver with fright to hear the cabbage talk , but he go on : `` If you will be good enough to plant me by my comrade again , I can tell you where your pink be at this moment -- hidden in Bruno 's bed ! ''
Felicia be in despair when she hear this , not know how she be to get them back .
But she replant the cabbage very kindly in his old place , and , a she finish do it , she saw Bruno 's hen , and say , catch hold of it : `` Come here , horrid little creature !
you shall suffer for all the unkind thing my brother have do to me . ''
`` Ah !
shepherdess , '' say the hen , `` do n't kill me ; I be rather a gossip , and I can tell you some surprising thing that you will like to hear .
Do n't imagine that you be the daughter of the poor laborer who bring you up ; your mother be a queen who have six girl already , and the King threaten that unless she have a son who could inherit his kingdom she should have her head cut off .
`` So when the Queen have another little daughter she be quite frighten , and agree with her sister -LRB- who be a fairy -RRB- to exchange her for the fairy 's little son .
Now the Queen have be shut up in a great tower by the King 's order , and when a great many day go by and still she hear nothing from the Fairy she make her escape from the window by mean of a rope ladder , take her little baby with her .
After wander about until she be half dead with cold and fatigue she reach this cottage .
I be the laborer 's wife , and be a good nurse , and the Queen give you into my charge , and tell me all her misfortune , and then die before she have time to say what be to become of you .
`` As I never in all my life could keep a secret , I could not help tell this strange tale to my neighbor , and one day a beautiful lady come here , and I tell it to her also .
When I have finish she touch me with a wand she hold in her hand , and instantly I become a hen , and there be an end of my talk !
I be very sad , and my husband , who be out when it happen , never know what have become of me .
After seek me everywhere he believe that I must have be drown , or eat up by wild beast in the forest .
That same lady come here once more , and command that you should be call Felicia , and leave the ring and the pot of pink to be give to you ; and while she be in the house twenty-five of the King 's guard come to search for you , doubtless mean to kill you ; but she mutter a few word , and immediately they all turn into cabbage .
It be one of them whom you throw out of your window yesterday .
`` I do n't know how it be that he could speak -- I have never hear either of them say a word before , nor have I be able to do it myself until now . ''
The Princess be greatly astonish at the hen 's story , and say kindly : `` I be truly sorry for you , my poor nurse , and wish it be in my power to restore you to your real form .
But we must not despair ; it seem to me , after what you have tell me , that something must be go to happen soon .
Just now , however , I must go and look for my pink , which I love good than anything in the world . ''
Bruno have go out into the forest , never think that Felicia would search in his room for the pink , and she be delight by his unexpected absence , and think to get them back without far trouble .
But as soon a she enter the room she saw a terrible army of rat , who be guard the straw bed ; and when she attempt to approach it they spring at her , bite and scratch furiously .
Quite terrify , she draw back , cry out : `` Oh !
my dear pink , how can you stay here in such bad company ? ''
Then she suddenly bethink herself of the pitcher of water , and , hop that it might have some magic power , she run to fetch it , and sprinkle a few drop over the fierce-looking swarm of rat .
In a moment not a tail or a whisker be to be see .
Each one have make for his hole as fast a his leg could carry him , so that the Princess could safely take her pot of pink .
She find them nearly die for want of water , and hastily pour all that be leave in the pitcher upon them .
As she bend over them , enjoy their delicious scent , a soft voice , that seem to rustle among the leaf , say : `` Lovely Felicia , the day have come at last when I may have the happiness of tell you how even the flower love you and rejoice in your beauty . ''
The Princess , quite overcome by the strangeness of hear a cabbage , a hen , and a pink speak , and by the terrible sight of an army of rat , suddenly become very pale , and faint away .
At this moment in come Bruno .
Working hard in the heat have not improve his temper , and when he saw that Felicia have succeed in find her pink he be so angry that he drag her out into the garden and shut the door upon her .
The fresh air soon make her open her pretty eye , and there before her stand the Queen of the Woods , look as charming a ever .
`` You have a bad brother , '' she say ; `` I saw he turn you out .
Shall I punish him for it ? ''
`` Ah !
no , madam , '' she say ; `` I be not angry with him .
`` But suppose he be not your brother , after all , what would you say then ? ''
ask the Queen .
`` Oh !
but I think he must be , '' say Felicia .
`` What ! ''
say the Queen , `` have you not hear that you be a Princess ? ''
`` I be tell so a little while ago , madam , but how could I believe it without a single proof ? ''
`` Ah !
dear child , '' say the Queen , `` the way you speak assures me that , in spite of your humble upbringing , you be indeed a real princess , and I can save you from be treat in such a way again . ''
She be interrupt at this moment by the arrival of a very handsome young man .
He wear a coat of green velvet fasten with emerald clasp , and have a crown of pink on his head .
He kneel upon one knee and kiss the Queen 's hand .
`` Ah ! ''
she cry , `` my pink , my dear son , what a happiness to see you restore to your natural shape by Felicia 's aid ! ''
And she embrace him joyfully .
Then , turn to Felicia , she say : `` Charming Princess , I know all the hen tell you , but you can not have hear that the zephyr , to whom be entrust the task of carry my son to the tower where the Queen , your mother , so anxiously wait for him , leave him instead in a garden of flower , while they fly off to tell your mother .
Whereupon a fairy with whom I have quarrel change him into a pink , and I could do nothing to prevent it .
`` You can imagine how angry I be , and how I try to find some mean of undo the mischief she have do ; but there be no help for it .
I could only bring Prince Pink to the place where you be be bring up , hop that when you grow up he might love you , and by your care be restore to his natural form .
And you see everything have come right , a I hop it would .
Your give me the silver ring be the sign that the power of the charm be nearly over , and my enemy 's last chance be to frighten you with her army of rat .
That she do not succeed in do ; so now , my dear Felicia , if you will be marry to my son with this silver ring your future happiness be certain .
Do you think him handsome and amiable enough to be willing to marry him ? ''
`` Madam , '' reply Felicia , blushing , `` you overwhelm me with your kindness .
I know that you be my mother 's sister , and that by your art you turn the soldier who be send to kill me into cabbage , and my nurse into a hen , and that you do me only too much honor in propose that I shall marry your son .
How can I explain to you the cause of my hesitation ?
I feel , for the first time in my life , how happy it would make me to be beloved .
Can you indeed give me the Prince 's heart ? ''
`` It be yours already , lovely Princess ! ''
he cry , take her hand in his ; `` but for the horrible enchantment which keep me silent I should have tell you long ago how dearly I love you . ''
This make the Princess very happy , and the Queen , who could not bear to see her dress like a poor shepherdess , touch her with her wand , say : `` I wish you to be attire a befits your rank and beauty . ''
And immediately the Princess 's cotton dress become a magnificent robe of silver brocade embroider with carbuncle , and her soft dark hair be encircle by a crown of diamond , from which float a clear white veil .
With her bright eye , and the charm color in her cheek , she be altogether such a dazzling sight that the Prince could hardly bear it .
`` How pretty you be , Felicia ! ''
he cry .
`` Do n't keep me in suspense , I entreat you ; say that you will marry me . ''
`` Ah ! ''
say the Queen , smiling , `` I think she will not refuse now . ''
Just then Bruno , who be go back to his work , come out of the cottage , and think he must be dream when he saw Felicia ; but she call him very kindly , and beg the Queen to take pity on him .
`` What ! ''
she say , `` when he be so unkind to you ? ''
`` Ah !
madam , '' say the Princess , `` I be so happy that I should like everybody else to be happy too . ''
The Queen kiss her , and say : `` Well , to please you , let me see what I can do for this cross Bruno . ''
And with a wave of her wand she turn the poor little cottage into a splendid palace , full of treasure ; only the two stool and the straw bed remain just a they be , to remind him of his former poverty .
Then the Queen touch Bruno himself , and make him gentle and polite and grateful , and he thank her and the Princess a thousand time .
Lastly , the Queen restore the hen and the cabbage to their natural form , and leave them all very content .
The Prince and Princess be marry as soon a possible with great splendor , and live happily ever after .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Fortunee .
Par Madame la Comtesse d'Aulnoy .
THE WHITE CAT Once upon a time there be a king who have three son , who be all so clever and brave that he begin to be afraid that they would want to reign over the kingdom before he be dead .
Now the King , though he felt that he be grow old , do not at all wish to give up the government of his kingdom while he could still manage it very well , so he think the best way to live in peace would be to divert the mind of his son by promise which he could always get out of when the time come for keep them .
So he send for them all , and , after speak to them kindly , he add : `` You will quite agree with me , my dear child , that my great age make it impossible for me to look after my affair of state as carefully a I once do .
I begin to fear that this may affect the welfare of my subject , therefore I wish that one of you should succeed to my crown ; but in return for such a gift a this it be only right that you should do something for me .
Now , a I think of retire into the country , it seem to me that a pretty , lively , faithful little dog would be very good company for me ; so , without any regard for your age , I promise that the one who bring me the most beautiful little dog shall succeed me at once . ''
The three Princes be greatly surprise by their father 's sudden fancy for a little dog , but a it give the two young one a chance they would not otherwise have have of be king , and a the eldest be too polite to make any objection , they accept the commission with pleasure .
They bid farewell to the King , who give them present of silver and precious stone , and appoint to meet them at the same hour , in the same place , after a year have pass , to see the little dog they have bring for him .
Then they go together to a castle which be about a league from the city , accompany by all their particular friend , to whom they give a grand banquet , and the three brother promise to be friend always , to share whatever good fortune befall them , and not to be part by any envy or jealousy ; and so they set out , agree to meet at the same castle at the appointed time , to present themselves before the King together .
Each one take a different road , and the two eldest meet with many adventure ; but it be about the young that you be go to hear .
He be young , and gay , and handsome , and know everything that a prince ought to know ; and a for his courage , there be simply no end to it .
Hardly a day pass without his buy several dog -- big and little , greyhound , mastiff , spaniel , and lapdog .
As soon a he have buy a pretty one he be sure to see a still prettier , and then he have to get rid of all the others and buy that one , a , be alone , he find it impossible to take thirty or forty thousand dog about with him .
He journey from day to day , not know where he be go , until at last , just at nightfall , he reach a great , gloomy forest .
He do not know his way , and , to make matter bad , it begin to thunder , and the rain pour down .
He take the first path he could find , and after walk for a long time he fancy he saw a faint light , and begin to hope that he be come to some cottage where he might find shelter for the night .
At length , guide by the light , he reach the door of the most splendid castle he could have imagine .
This door be of gold cover with carbuncle , and it be the pure red light which shone from them that have show him the way through the forest .
The wall be of the fine porcelain in all the most delicate color , and the Prince saw that all the story he have ever read be picture upon them ; but a he be terribly wet , and the rain still fell in torrent , he could not stay to look about any more , but come back to the golden door .
There he saw a deer 's foot hanging by a chain of diamond , and he begin to wonder who could live in this magnificent castle .
`` They must feel very secure against robber , '' he say to himself .
`` What be to hinder anyone from cut off that chain and dig out those carbuncle , and make himself rich for life ? ''
He pull the deer 's foot , and immediately a silver bell sound and the door fly open , but the Prince could see nothing but number of hand in the air , each hold a torch .
He be so much surprise that he stand quite still , until he felt himself push forward by other hand , so that , though he be somewhat uneasy , he could not help go on .
With his hand on his sword , to be prepare for whatever might happen , he enter a hall pave with lapis-lazuli , while two lovely voice sing : `` The hand you see float above Will swiftly your bidding obey ; If your heart dread not conquer Love , In this place you may fearlessly stay . ''
The Prince could not believe that any danger threaten him when he be welcome in this way , so , guide by the mysterious hand , he go toward a door of coral , which open of it own accord , and he find himself in a vast hall of mother-of-pearl , out of which open a number of other room , glitter with thousand of light , and full of such beautiful picture and precious thing that the Prince felt quite bewilder .
After pass through sixty room the hand that conduct him stop , and the Prince saw a most comfortable-looking arm-chair drawn up close to the chimney-corner ; at the same moment the fire light itself , and the pretty , soft , clever hand take off the Prince 's wet , muddy clothes , and present him with fresh one make of the rich stuff , all embroider with gold and emerald .
He could not help admire everything he saw , and the deft way in which the hand wait on him , though they sometimes appear so suddenly that they make him jump .
When he be quite ready -- and I can assure you that he look very different from the wet and weary Prince who have stand outside in the rain , and pull the deer 's foot -- the hand lead him to a splendid room , upon the wall of which be paint the history of Puss in Boots and a number of other famous cat .
The table be lay for supper with two golden plate , and golden spoon and fork , and the sideboard be cover with dish and glass of crystal set with precious stone .
The Prince be wonder who the second place could be for , when suddenly in come about a dozen cat carry guitar and roll of music , who take their place at one end of the room , and under the direction of a cat who beat time with a roll of paper begin to mew in every imaginable key , and to draw their claw across the string of the guitar , make the strange kind of music that could be hear .
The Prince hastily stop up his ear , but even then the sight of these comical musician send him into fit of laughter .
`` What funny thing shall I see next ? ''
he say to himself , and instantly the door open , and in come a tiny figure cover by a long black veil .
It be conduct by two cat wear black mantle and carry sword , and a large party of cat follow , who bring in cage full of rat and mouse .
The Prince be so much astonish that he think he must be dream , but the little figure come up to him and throw back it veil , and he saw that it be the lovely little white cat it be possible to imagine .
She look very young and very sad , and in a sweet little voice that go straight to his heart she say to the Prince : `` King 's son , you be welcome ; the Queen of the Cats be glad to see you . ''
`` Lady Cat , '' reply the Prince , `` I thank you for receive me so kindly , but surely you be no ordinary pussy-cat ?
Indeed , the way you speak and the magnificence of your castle prove it plainly . ''
`` King 's son , '' say the White Cat , `` I beg you to spare me these compliment , for I be not use to them .
But now , '' she add , `` let supper be serve , and let the musician be silent , a the Prince do not understand what they be say . ''
So the mysterious hand begin to bring in the supper , and first they put on the table two dish , one containing stew pigeon and the other a fricassee of fat mouse .
The sight of the latter make the Prince feel a if he could not enjoy his supper at all ; but the White Cat , see this , assure him that the dish intend for him be prepare in a separate kitchen , and he might be quite certain that they contain neither rat nor mouse ; and the Prince felt so sure that she would not deceive him that he have no more hesitation in begin .
Presently he notice that on the little paw that be next him the White Cat wear a bracelet contain a portrait , and he beg to be allow to look at it .
To his great surprise he find it represent an extremely handsome young man , who be so like himself that it might have be his own portrait !
The White Cat sigh a he look at it , and seem sad than ever , and the Prince dare not ask any question for fear of displease her ; so he begin to talk about other thing , and find that she be interested in all the subject he care for himself , and seem to know quite well what be go on in the world .
After supper they go into another room , which be fit up a a theatre , and the cat act and dance for their amusement , and then the White Cat say good-night to him , and the hand conduct him into a room he have not see before , hung with tapestry work with butterfly ' wing of every color ; there be mirror that reach from the ceiling to the floor , and a little white bed with curtain of gauze tie up with ribbon .
The Prince go to bed in silence , a he do not quite know how to begin a conversation with the hand that wait on him , and in the morning he be awaken by a noise and confusion outside of his window , and the hand come and quickly dress him in hunt costume .
When he look out all the cat be assemble in the courtyard , some lead greyhound , some blowing horn , for the White Cat be go out hunt .
The hand lead a wooden horse up to the Prince , and seem to expect him to mount it , at which he be very indignant ; but it be no use for him to object , for he speedily find himself upon it back , and it prance gaily off with him .
The White Cat herself be rid a monkey , which climb even up to the eagle ' nest when she have a fancy for the young eaglet .
Never be there a pleasanter hunt party , and when they return to the castle the Prince and the White Cat sup together a before , but when they have finish she offer him a crystal goblet , which must have contain a magic draught , for , as soon a he have swallow it content , he forget everything , even the little dog that he be seek for the King , and only think how happy he be to be with the White Cat !
And so the day pass , in every kind of amusement , until the year be nearly go .
The Prince have forget all about meet his brother : he do not even know what country he belong to ; but the White Cat know when he ought to go back , and one day she say to him : `` Do you know that you have only three day leave to look for the little dog for your father , and your brother have find lovely one ? ''
Then the Prince suddenly recover his memory , and cry : `` What can have make me forget such an important thing ?
My whole fortune depend upon it ; and even if I could in such a short time find a dog pretty enough to gain me a kingdom , where should I find a horse who would carry me all that way in three day ? ''
And he begin to be very vexed .
But the White Cat say to him : `` King 's son , do not trouble yourself ; I be your friend , and will make everything easy for you .
You can still stay here for a day , a the good wooden horse can take you to your country in twelve hour . ''
`` I thank you , beautiful Cat , '' say the Prince ; `` but what good will it do me to get back if I have not a dog to take to my father ? ''
`` See here , '' answer the White Cat , hold up an acorn ; `` there be a pretty one in this than in the Dogstar ! ''
`` Oh !
White Cat dear , '' say the Prince , `` how unkind you be to laugh at me now ! ''
`` Only listen , '' she say , hold the acorn to his ear .
And inside it he distinctly hear a tiny voice say : `` Bow-wow ! ''
The Prince be delight , for a dog that can be shut up in an acorn must be very small indeed .
He want to take it out and look at it , but the White Cat say it would be well not to open the acorn till he be before the King , in case the tiny dog should be cold on the journey .
He thank her a thousand time , and say good-by quite sadly when the time come for him to set out .
`` The day have pass so quickly with you , '' he say , `` I only wish I could take you with me now . ''
But the White Cat shake her head and sigh deeply in answer .
After all the Prince be the first to arrive at the castle where he have agree to meet his brother , but they come soon after , and star in amazement when they saw the wooden horse in the courtyard jumping like a hunter .
The Prince meet them joyfully , and they begin to tell him all their adventure ; but he manage to hide from them what he have be do , and even lead them to think that a turnspit dog which he have with him be the one he be bring for the King .
Fond a they all be of one another , the two eldest could not help be glad to think that their dog certainly have a good chance .
The next morning they start in the same chariot .
The elder brother carry in basket two such tiny , fragile dog that they hardly dare to touch them .
As for the turnspit , he run after the chariot , and get so cover with mud that one could hardly see what he be like at all .
When they reach the palace everyone crowd round to welcome them a they go into the King 's great hall ; and when the two brother present their little dog nobody could decide which be the prettier .
They be already arrange between themselves to share the kingdom equally , when the young stepped forward , draw from his pocket the acorn the White Cat have give him .
He open it quickly , and there upon a white cushion they saw a dog so small that it could easily have be put through a ring .
The Prince lay it upon the ground , and it get up at once and begin to dance .
The King do not know what to say , for it be impossible that anything could be pretty than this little creature .
Nevertheless , a he be in no hurry to part with his crown , he tell his son that , a they have be so successful the first time , he would ask them to go once again , and seek by land and sea for a piece of muslin so fine that it could be draw through the eye of a needle .
The brother be not very willing to set out again , but the two eldest consent because it give them another chance , and they start a before .
The young again mount the wooden horse , and ride back at full speed to his beloved White Cat .
Every door of the castle stand wide open , and every window and turret be illuminate , so it look more wonderful than before .
The hand hasten to meet him , and lead the wooden horse off to the stable , while he hurry in to find the White Cat .
She be asleep in a little basket on a white satin cushion , but she very soon start up when she hear the Prince , and be overjoy at see him once more .
`` How could I hope that you would come back to me King 's son ? ''
she say .
And then he stroke and pet her , and tell her of his successful journey , and how he have come back to ask her help , a he believe that it be impossible to find what the King demand .
The White Cat look serious , and say she must think what be to be do , but that , luckily , there be some cat in the castle who could spin very well , and if anybody could manage it they could , and she would set them the task herself .
And then the hand appear carry torch , and conduct the Prince and the White Cat to a long gallery which overlook the river , from the window of which they saw a magnificent display of firework of all sort ; after which they have supper , which the Prince like even good than the firework , for it be very late , and he be hungry after his long ride .
And so the day pass quickly a before ; it be impossible to feel dull with the White Cat , and she have quite a talent for invent new amusement -- indeed , she be clever than a cat have any right to be .
But when the Prince ask her how it be that she be so wise , she only say : `` King 's son , do not ask me ; guess what you please .
I may not tell you anything . ''
The Prince be so happy that he do not trouble himself at all about the time , but presently the White Cat tell him that the year be go , and that he need not be at all anxious about the piece of muslin , a they have make it very well .
`` This time , '' she add , `` I can give you a suitable escort '' ; and on look out into the courtyard the Prince saw a superb chariot of burnished gold , enamel in flame color with a thousand different device .
It be draw by twelve snow-white horse , harness four abreast ; their trapping be flame-colored velvet , embroider with diamond .
A hundred chariot follow , each drawn by eight horse , and fill with officer in splendid uniform , and a thousand guard surround the procession .
`` Go ! ''
say the White Cat , `` and when you appear before the King in such state he surely will not refuse you the crown which you deserve .
Take this walnut , but do not open it until you be before him , then you will find in it the piece of stuff you ask me for . ''
`` Lovely Blanchette , '' say the Prince , `` how can I thank you properly for all your kindness to me ?
Only tell me that you wish it , and I will give up for ever all thought of be king , and will stay here with you always . ''
`` King 's son , '' she reply , `` it show the goodness of your heart that you should care so much for a little white cat , who be good for nothing but to catch mouse ; but you must not stay . ''
So the Prince kiss her little paw and set out .
You can imagine how fast he travel when I tell you that they reach the King 's palace in just half the time it have take the wooden horse to get there .
This time the Prince be so late that he do not try to meet his brother at their castle , so they think he could not be come , and be rather glad of it , and display their piece of muslin to the King proudly , feel sure of success .
And indeed the stuff be very fine , and would go through the eye of a very large needle ; but the King , who be only too glad to make a difficulty , send for a particular needle , which be keep among the Crown jewel , and have such a small eye that everybody saw at once that it be impossible that the muslin should pass through it .
The Princes be angry , and be begin to complain that it be a trick , when suddenly the trumpet sound and the young Prince come in .
His father and brother be quite astonish at his magnificence , and after he have greet them he take the walnut from his pocket and open it , fully expect to find the piece of muslin , but instead there be only a hazel-nut .
He crack it , and there lay a cherry-stone .
Everybody be look on , and the King be chuckle to himself at the idea of find the piece of muslin in a nutshell .
However , the Prince crack the cherry-stone , but everyone laugh when he saw it contain only it own kernel .
He open that and find a grain of wheat , and in that be a millet seed .
Then he himself begin to wonder , and mutter softly : `` White Cat , White Cat , be you make fun of me ? ''
In an instant he felt a cat 's claw give his hand quite a sharp scratch , and hop that it be mean a an encouragement he open the millet seed , and draw out of it a piece of muslin four hundred ell long , woven with the lovely color and most wonderful pattern ; and when the needle be bring it go through the eye six time with the great ease !
The King turn pale , and the other Princes stand silent and sorrowful , for nobody could deny that this be the most marvelous piece of muslin that be to be find in the world .
Presently the King turn to his son , and say , with a deep sigh : `` Nothing could console me more in my old age than to realize your willingness to gratify my wish .
Go then once more , and whoever at the end of a year can bring back the lovely princess shall be marry to her , and shall , without further delay , receive the crown , for my successor must certainly be marry . ''
The Prince consider that he have earn the kingdom fairly twice over but still he be too well breed to argue about it , so he just go back to his gorgeous chariot , and , surround by his escort , return to the White Cat faster than he have come .
This time she be expect him , the path be strew with flower , and a thousand brazier be burn scent wood which perfume the air .
Seated in a gallery from which she could see his arrival , the White Cat wait for him .
`` Well , King 's son , '' she say , `` here you be once more , without a crown . ''
`` Madam , '' say he , `` thanks to your generosity I have earn one twice over ; but the fact be that my father be so loth to part with it that it would be no pleasure to me to take it . ''
`` Never mind , '' she answer , `` it 's just as well to try and deserve it .
As you must take back a lovely princess with you next time I will be on the look-out for one for you .
In the meantime let u enjoy ourselves ; to-night I have order a battle between my cat and the river rat on purpose to amuse you . ''
So this year slip away even more pleasantly than the preceding one .
Sometimes the Prince could not help ask the White Cat how it be she could talk .
`` Perhaps you be a fairy , '' he say .
`` Or have some enchanter change you into a cat ? ''
But she only give him answer that tell him nothing .
Days go by so quickly when one be very happy that it be certain the Prince would never have think of it be time to go back , when one evening a they sit together the White Cat say to him that if he want to take a lovely princess home with him the next day he must be prepare to do what she tell him .
`` Take this sword , '' she say , `` and cut off my head ! ''
`` I ! ''
cry the Prince , `` I cut off your head !
Blanchette darling , how could I do it ? ''
`` I entreat you to do a I tell you , King 's son , '' she reply .
The tear come into the Prince 's eye a he beg her to ask him anything but that -- to set him any task she please a a proof of his devotion , but to spare him the grief of kill his dear Pussy .
But nothing he could say alter her determination , and at last he draw his sword , and desperately , with a tremble hand , cut off the little white head .
But imagine his astonishment and delight when suddenly a lovely princess stand before him , and , while he be still speechless with amazement , the door open and a goodly company of knight and lady enter , each carry a cat 's skin !
They hasten with every sign of joy to the Princess , kiss her hand and congratulate her on be once more restored to her natural shape .
She receive them graciously , but after a few minute beg that they would leave her alone with the Prince , to whom she say : `` You see , Prince , that you be right in suppose me to be no ordinary cat .
My father reign over six kingdom .
The Queen , my mother , whom he love dearly , have a passion for travel and explore , and when I be only a few week old she obtain his permission to visit a certain mountain of which she have hear many marvelous tale , and set out , take with her a number of her attendant .
On the way they have to pass near an old castle belonging to the fairy .
Nobody have ever be into it , but it be report to be full of the most wonderful thing , and my mother remember to have hear that the fairy have in their garden such fruit a be to be see and taste nowhere else .
She begin to wish to try them for herself , and turn her step in the direction of the garden .
On arrive at the door , which blaze with gold and jewel , she order her servant to knock loudly , but it be useless ; it seem a if all the inhabitant of the castle must be asleep or dead .
Now the more difficult it become to obtain the fruit , the more the Queen be determine that have it she would .
So she order that they should bring ladder , and get over the wall into the garden ; but though the wall do not look very high , and they tie the ladder together to make them very long , it be quite impossible to get to the top .
`` The Queen be in despair , but a night be come on she order that they should encamp just where they be , and go to bed herself , feel quite ill , she be so disappointed .
In the middle of the night she be suddenly awaken , and saw to her surprise a tiny , ugly old woman seat by her bedside , who say to her : '' ' I must say that we consider it somewhat troublesome of your Majesty to insist upon taste our fruit ; but to save you annoyance , my sister and I will consent to give you as much a you can carry away , on one condition -- that be , that you shall give u your little daughter to bring up a our own . ' ''
` Ah !
my dear madam , ' cry the Queen , ` be there nothing else that you will take for the fruit ?
I will give you my kingdom willingly . ' ''
` No , ' reply the old fairy , ` we will have nothing but your little daughter .
She shall be as happy a the day be long , and we will give her everything that be worth have in fairy-land , but you must not see her again until she be married . ' ''
` Though it be a hard condition , ' say the Queen , ' I consent , for I shall certainly die if I do not taste the fruit , and so I should lose my little daughter either way . '
`` So the old fairy lead her into the castle , and , though it be still the middle of the night , the Queen could see plainly that it be far more beautiful than she have be tell , which you can easily believe , Prince , '' say the White Cat , `` when I tell you that it be this castle that we be now in .
` Will you gather the fruit yourself , Queen ? '
say the old fairy , ` or shall I call it to come to you ? ' '' '
I beg you to let me see it come when it be call , ' cry the Queen ; ` that will be something quite new . '
The old fairy whistle twice , then she cry : '' ` Apricots , peach , nectarine , cherry , plum , pear , melon , grape , apple , orange , lemon , gooseberry , strawberry , raspberry , come ! '
`` And in an instant they come tumble in one over another , and yet they be neither dusty nor spoilt , and the Queen find them quite as good a she have fancy them .
You see they grow upon fairy tree .
`` The old fairy give her golden basket in which to take the fruit away , and it be as much a four hundred mule could carry .
Then she remind the Queen of her agreement , and lead her back to the camp , and next morning she go back to her kingdom , but before she have go very far she begin to repent of her bargain , and when the King come out to meet her she look so sad that he guess that something have happen , and ask what be the matter .
At first the Queen be afraid to tell him , but when , as soon a they reach the palace , five frightful little dwarf be send by the fairy to fetch me , she be oblige to confess what she have promise .
The King be very angry , and have the Queen and myself shut up in a great tower and safely guard , and drive the little dwarf out of his kingdom ; but the fairy send a great dragon who eat up all the people he meet , and whose breath burn up everything a he pass through the country ; and at last , after try in vain to rid himself of this monster , the King , to save his subject , be oblige to consent that I should be give up to the fairy .
This time they come themselves to fetch me , in a chariot of pearl draw by sea-horses , follow by the dragon , who be lead with chain of diamond .
My cradle be place between the old fairy , who load me with caress , and away we whirl through the air to a tower which they have build on purpose for me .
There I grow up surrounded with everything that be beautiful and rare , and learn everything that be ever teach to a princess , but without any companion but a parrot and a little dog , who could both talk ; and receive every day a visit from one of the old fairy , who come mount upon the dragon .
One day , however , a I sit at my window I saw a handsome young prince , who seem to have be hunt in the forest which surround my prison , and who be stand and look up at me .
When he saw that I observe him he salute me with great deference .
You can imagine that I be delight to have some one new to talk to , and in spite of the height of my window our conversation be prolong till night fell , then my prince reluctantly bid me farewell .
But after that he come again many time and at last I consent to marry him , but the question be how be I to escape from my tower .
The fairy always supply me with flax for my spinning , and by great diligence I make enough cord for a ladder that would reach to the foot of the tower ; but , ala !
just a my prince be help me to descend it , the crossest and ugliest of the old fairy fly in .
Before he have time to defend himself my unhappy lover be swallow up by the dragon .
As for me , the fairy , furious at have their plan defeat , for they intend me to marry the king of the dwarf , and I utterly refuse , change me into a white cat .
When they bring me here I find all the lord and lady of my father 's court await me under the same enchantment , while the people of less rank have be make invisible , all but their hand .
`` As they lay me under the enchantment the fairy tell me all my history , for until then I have quite believe that I be their child , and warn me that my only chance of regain my natural form be to win the love of a prince who resemble in every way my unfortunate lover .
`` And you have win it , lovely Princess , '' interrupt the Prince .
`` You be indeed wonderfully like him , '' resume the Princess -- `` in voice , in feature , and everything ; and if you really love me all my trouble will be at an end . ''
`` And mine too , '' cry the Prince , throw himself at her foot , `` if you will consent to marry me . ''
`` I love you already good than anyone in the world , '' she say ; `` but now it be time to go back to your father , and we shall hear what he say about it . ''
So the Prince give her his hand and lead her out , and they mount the chariot together ; it be even more splendid than before , and so be the whole company .
Even the horse ' shoe be of ruby with diamond nail , and I suppose that be the first time such a thing be ever see .
As the Princess be a kind and clever a she be beautiful , you may imagine what a delightful journey the Prince find it , for everything the Princess say seem to him quite charm .
When they come near the castle where the brother be to meet , the Princess get into a chair carry by four of the guard ; it be hew out of one splendid crystal , and have silken curtain , which she draw round her that she might not be see .
The Prince saw his brother walk upon the terrace , each with a lovely princess , and they come to meet him , ask if he have also find a wife .
He say that he have find something much rarer -- a white cat !
At which they laugh very much , and ask him if he be afraid of be eat up by mouse in the palace .
And then they set out together for the town .
Each prince and princess rode in a splendid carriage ; the horse be deck with plume of feather , and glitter with gold .
After them come the young prince , and last of all the crystal chair , at which everybody look with admiration and curiosity .
When the courtier saw them come they hasten to tell the King .
`` Are the lady beautiful ? ''
he ask anxiously .
And when they answer that nobody have ever before see such lovely princess he seem quite annoy .
However , he receive them graciously , but find it impossible to choose between them .
Then turn to his young son he say : `` Have you come back alone , after all ? ''
`` Your Majesty , '' reply the Prince , `` will find in that crystal chair a little white cat , which have such soft paw , and mew so prettily , that I be sure you will be charm with it . ''
The King smile , and go to draw back the curtain himself , but at a touch from the Princess the crystal shiver into a thousand splinter , and there she stand in all her beauty ; her fair hair float over her shoulder and be crown with flower , and her softly fall robe be of the pure white .
She salute the King gracefully , while a murmur of admiration rise from all around .
`` Sire , '' she say , `` I be not come to deprive you of the throne you fill so worthily .
I have already six kingdom , permit me to bestow one upon you , and upon each of your son .
I ask nothing but your friendship , and your consent to my marriage with your young son ; we shall still have three kingdom leave for ourselves . ''
The King and all the courtier could not conceal their joy and astonishment , and the marriage of the three Princes be celebrate at once .
The festivity last several month , and then each king and queen depart to their own kingdom and live happily ever after .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- La Chatte blanche .
Par Madame la Comtesse d'Aulnoy .
THE WATER-LILY .
THE GOLD-SPINNERS Once upon a time , in a large forest , there live an old woman and three maiden .
They be all three beautiful , but the young be the fair .
Their hut be quite hide by tree , and none saw their beauty but the sun by day , and the moon by night , and the eye of the star .
The old woman keep the girl hard at work , from morning till night , spin gold flax into yarn , and when one distaff be empty another be give them , so they have no rest .
The thread have to be fine and even , and when do be lock up in a secret chamber by the old woman , who twice or thrice every summer go a journey .
Before she go she give out work for each day of her absence , and always return in the night , so that the girl never saw what she bring back with her , neither would she tell them whence the gold flax come , nor what it be to be use for .
Now , when the time come round for the old woman to set out on one of these journey , she give each maiden work for six day , with the usual warning : `` Children , do n't let your eye wander , and on no account speak to a man , for , if you do , your thread will lose it brightness , and misfortune of all kind will follow . ''
They laugh at this oft-repeated caution , say to each other : `` How can our gold thread lose it brightness , and have we any chance of speak to a man ? ''
On the third day after the old woman 's departure a young prince , hunt in the forest , get separate from his companion , and completely lose .
Weary of seek his way , he fling himself down under a tree , leave his horse to browse at will , and fell asleep .
The sun have set when he awake and begin once more to try and find his way out of the forest .
At last he perceive a narrow foot-path , which he eagerly follow and find that it lead him to a small hut .
The maiden , who be sit at the door of their hut for coolness , saw him approach , and the two elder be much alarm , for they remember the old woman 's warning ; but the young say : `` Never before have I see anyone like him ; let me have one look . ''
They entreat her to come in , but , see that she would not , leave her , and the Prince , come up , courteously greet the maiden , and tell her he have lose his way in the forest and be both hungry and weary .
She set food before him , and be so delighted with his conversation that she forget the old woman 's caution , and linger for hour .
In the meantime the Prince 's companion seek him far and wide , but to no purpose , so they send two messenger to tell the sad news to the King , who immediately order a regiment of cavalry and one of infantry to go and look for him .
After three day ' search , they find the hut .
The Prince be still sit by the door and have be so happy in the maiden 's company that the time have seem like a single hour .
Before leave he promise to return and fetch her to his father 's court , where he would make her his bride .
When he have go , she sit down to her wheel to make up for lose time , but be dismay to find that her thread have lose all it brightness .
Her heart beat fast and she weep bitterly , for she remember the old woman 's warning and know not what misfortune might now befall her .
The old woman return in the night and knew by the tarnished thread what have happen in her absence .
She be furiously angry and tell the maiden that she have bring down misery both on herself and on the Prince .
The maiden could not rest for thinking of this .
At last she could bear it no longer , and resolve to seek help from the Prince .
As a child she have learn to understand the speech of bird , and this be now of great use to her , for , see a raven plume itself on a pine bough , she cry softly to it : `` Dear bird , cleverest of all bird , as well a swiftest on wing , wilt thou help me ? ''
`` How can I help thee ? ''
ask the raven .
She answer : `` Fly away , until thou comest to a splendid town , where stand a king 's palace ; seek out the king 's son and tell him that a great misfortune have befall me . ''
Then she tell the raven how her thread have lose it brightness , how terribly angry the old woman be , and how she fear some great disaster .
The raven promise faithfully to do her bidding , and , spread it wing , fly away .
The maiden now go home and work hard all day at wind up the yarn her elder sister have spin , for the old woman would let her spin no longer .
Toward even she hear the raven 's `` craa , craa , '' from the pine tree and eagerly hasten thither to hear the answer .
By great good fortune the raven have find a wind wizard 's son in the palace garden , who understand the speech of bird , and to him he have entrust the message .
When the Prince hear it , he be very sorrowful , and take counsel with his friend how to free the maiden .
Then he say to the wind wizard 's son : `` Beg the raven to fly quickly back to the maiden and tell her to be ready on the ninth night , for then will I come and fetch her away . ''
The wind wizard 's son do this , and the raven fly so swiftly that it reach the hut that same evening .
The maiden thank the bird heartily and go home , tell no one what she have hear .
As the ninth night draw near she become very unhappy , for she fear l some terrible mischance should arise and ruin all .
On this night she creep quietly out of the house and wait trembling at some little distance from the hut .
Presently she hear the muffled tramp of horse , and soon the arm troop appear , lead by the Prince , who have prudently mark all the tree beforehand , in order to know the way .
When he saw the maiden he spring from his horse , lift her into the saddle , and then , mount behind , ride homeward .
The moon shone so brightly that they have no difficulty in see the marked tree .
By and by the come of dawn loosen the tongue of all the bird , and , have the Prince only know what they be say , or the maiden be listen , they might have be spar much sorrow , but they be think only of each other , and when they come out of the forest the sun be high in the heaven .
Next morning , when the young girl do not come to her work , the old woman ask where she be .
The sister pretend not to know , but the old woman easily guess what have happen , and , a she be in reality a wicked witch , determine to punish the fugitive .
Accordingly , she collect nine different kind of enchanter ' nightshade , add some salt , which she first bewitch , and , do all up in a cloth into the shape of a fluffy ball , send it after them on the wing of the wind , say : `` Whirlwind !
-- mother of the wind !
Lend thy aid ` gainst her who sin !
Carry with thee this magic ball .
Cast her from his arm for ever , Bury her in the rippling river . ''
At midday the Prince and his men come to a deep river , span by so narrow a bridge that only one rider could cross at a time .
The horse on which the Prince and the maiden be rid have just reach the middle when the magic ball fly by .
The horse in it fright suddenly rear , and before anyone could stop it fling the maiden into the swift current below .
The Prince try to jump in after her , but his men hold him back , and in spite of his struggle lead him home , where for six week he shut himself up in a secret chamber , and would neither eat nor drink , so great be his grief .
At last he become so ill his life be despair of , and in great alarm the King cause all the wizard of his country to be summon .
But none could cure him .
At last the wind wizard 's son say to the King : `` Send for the old wizard from Finland he know more than all the wizard of your kingdom put together . ''
A messenger be at once send to Finland , and a week later the old wizard himself arrive on the wing of the wind .
`` Honored King , '' say the wizard , `` the wind have blow this illness upon your son , and a magic ball have snatch away his beloved .
This it be which make him grieve so constantly .
Let the wind blow upon him that it may blow away his sorrow . ''
Then the King make his son go out into the wind , and he gradually recover and tell his father all .
`` Forget the maiden , '' say the King , `` and take another bride '' ; but the Prince say he could never love another .
A year afterward he come suddenly upon the bridge where his beloved meet her death .
As he recall the misfortune he weep bitterly , and would have give all he possess to have her once more alive .
In the midst of his grief he think he hear a voice singing , and look round , but could see no one .
Then he hear the voice again , and it say : `` Alas !
bewitch and all forsaken , 'T be I must lie for ever here !
My beloved no thought have take To free his bride , that be so dear . ''
He be greatly astonish , sprang from his horse , and look everywhere to see if no one be hide under the bridge ; but no one be there .
Then he notice a yellow water-lily floating on the surface of the water , half hide by it broad leaf ; but flower do not sing , and in great surprise he wait , hop to hear more .
Then again the voice sang : `` Alas !
bewitch and all forsaken , 'T be I must lie for ever here !
My beloved no thought have take To free his bride , that be so dear . ''
The Prince suddenly remember the gold-spinners , and say to himself : `` If I ride thither , who know but that they could explain this to me ? ''
He at once rode to the hut , and find the two maiden at the fountain .
He tell them what have befall their sister the year before , and how he have twice hear a strange song , but yet could see no singer .
They say that the yellow water-lily could be none other than their sister , who be not dead , but transform by the magic ball .
Before he go to bed , the eldest make a cake of magic herb , which she give him to eat .
In the night he dream that he be live in the forest and could understand all that the bird say to each other .
Next morning he tell this to the maiden , and they say that the charmed cake have cause it , and advise him to listen well to the bird , and see what they could tell him , and when he have recover his bride they beg him to return and deliver them from their wretched bondage .
Having promise this , he joyfully return home , and a he be rid through the forest he could perfectly understand all that the bird say .
He hear a thrush say to a magpie : `` How stupid men be !
they can not understand the simple thing .
It be now quite a year since the maiden be transform into a water-lily , and , though she sing so sadly that anyone go over the bridge must hear her , yet no one come to her aid .
Her former bridegroom rode over it a few day ago and hear her singing , but be no wiser than the rest . ''
`` And he be to blame for all her misfortune , '' add the magpie .
`` If he heed only the word of men she will remain a flower for ever .
She be soon deliver be the matter only lay before the old wizard of Finland . ''
After hear this , the Prince wonder how he could get a message convey to Finland .
He hear one swallow say to another : `` Come , let u fly to Finland ; we can build good nest there . ''
`` Stop , kind friend ! ''
cry the Prince .
`` Will you do something for me ? ''
The bird consent , and he say : `` Take a thousand greeting from me to the wizard of Finland , and ask him how I may restore a maiden transform into a flower to her own form . ''
The swallow fly away , and the Prince rode on to the bridge .
There he wait , hop to hear the song .
But he hear nothing but the rushing of the water and the moaning of the wind , and , disappointed , rode home .
Shortly after , he be sit in the garden , think that the swallow must have forget his message , when he saw an eagle fly above him .
The bird gradually descend until it perch on a tree close to the Prince and say : `` The wizard of Finland greets thee and bid me say that thou mayest free the maiden thus : Go to the river and smear thyself all over with mud ; then say : ` From a man into a crab , ' and thou wilt become a crab .
Plunge boldly into the water , swim as close a thou canst to the water-lily 's root , and loosen them from the mud and reed .
This do , fasten thy claw into the root and rise with them to the surface .
Let the water flow all over the flower , and drift with the current until thou comest to a mountain ash tree on the left bank .
There be near it a large stone .
Stop there and say : ` From a crab into a man , from a water-lily into a maiden , ' and ye both will be restore to your own form . ''
Full of doubt and fear , the Prince let some time pas before he be bold enough to attempt to rescue the maiden .
Then a crow say to him : `` Why dost thou hesitate ?
The old wizard have not tell thee wrong , neither have the bird deceive thee ; hasten and dry the maiden 's tear . ''
`` Nothing bad than death can befall me , '' think the Prince , `` and death be well than endless sorrow . ''
So he mount his horse and go to the bridge .
Again he hear the water-lily 's lament , and , hesitate no longer , smear himself all over with mud , and , say : `` From a man into a crab , '' plunge into the river .
For one moment the water hiss in his ear , and then all be silent .
He swim up to the plant and begin to loosen it root , but so firmly be they fix in the mud and reeds that this take him a long time .
He then grasp them and rise to the surface , let the water flow over the flower .
The current carry them down the stream , but nowhere could he see the mountain ash .
At last he saw it , and close by the large stone .
Here he stop and say : `` From a crab into a man , from a water-lily into a maiden , '' and to his delight find himself once more a prince , and the maiden be by his side .
She be ten time more beautiful than before , and wear a magnificent pale yellow robe , sparkle with jewel .
She thank him for have free her from the cruel witch 's power , and willingly consent to marry him .
But when they come to the bridge where he have leave his horse it be nowhere to be see , for , though the Prince think he have be a crab only a few hour , he have in reality be under the water for more than ten day .
While they be wonder how they should reach his father 's court , they saw a splendid coach drive by six gaily caparison horse come along the bank .
In this they drive to the palace .
The King and Queen be at church , weep for their son , whom they have long mourn for dead .
Great be their delight and astonishment when the Prince enter , lead the beautiful maiden by the hand .
The wedding be at once celebrate and there be feast and merry-making throughout the kingdom for six week .
Some time afterward the Prince and his bride be sit in the garden , when a crow say to them : `` Ungrateful creature !
Have you forget the two poor maiden who help you in your distress ?
Must they spin gold flax for ever ?
Have no pity on the old witch .
The three maiden be princess , whom she steal away when they be child together , with all the silver utensil , which she turn into gold flax .
Poison be her fit punishment . ''
The Prince be ashamed of have forget his promise and set out at once , and by great good fortune reach the hut when the old woman be away .
The maiden have dream that he be come , and be ready to go with him , but first they make a cake in which they put poison , and leave it on a table where the old woman be likely to see it when she return .
She do see it , and think it look so tempting that she greedily eat it up and at once die .
In the secret chamber be find fifty wagon-loads of gold flax , and as much more be discover bury .
The hut be raze to the ground , and the Prince and his bride and her two sister live happily ever after .
THE TERRIBLE HEAD Once upon a time there be a king whose only child be a girl .
Now the King have be very anxious to have a son , or at least a grandson , to come after him , but he be tell by a prophet whom he consult that his own daughter 's son should kill him .
This news terrify him so much that he determine never to let his daughter be marry , for he think it be well to have no grandson at all than to be kill by his grandson .
He therefore call his workman together , and bid them dig a deep round hole in the earth , and then he have a prison of brass build in the hole , and then , when it be finish , he lock up his daughter .
No man ever saw her , and she never saw even the field and the sea , but only the sky and the sun , for there be a wide open window in the roof of the house of brass .
So the Princess would sit look up at the sky , and watch the cloud float across , and wonder whether she should ever get out of her prison .
Now one day it seem to her that the sky open above her , and a great shower of shin gold fell through the window in the roof , and lay glitter in her room .
Not very long after , the Princess have a baby , a little boy , but when the King her father heard of it he be very angry and afraid , for now the child be bear that should be his death .
Yet , cowardly a he be , he have not quite the heart to kill the Princess and her baby outright , but he have them put in a huge brass-bound chest and thrust out to sea , that they might either be drown or starve , or perhaps come to a country where they would be out of his way .
So the Princess and the baby float and drift in the chest on the sea all day and night , but the baby be not afraid of the wave nor of the wind , for he do not know that they could hurt him , and he sleep quite soundly .
And the Princess sing a song over him , and this be her song : `` Child , my child , how sound you sleep !
Though your mother 's care be deep , You can lie with heart at rest In the narrow brass-bound chest ; In the starless night and drear You can sleep , and never hear Billows breaking , and the cry Of the night-wind wandering by ; In soft purple mantle sleep With your little face on mine , Hearing not your mother weeping And the breaking of the brine . ''
Well , the daylight come at last , and the great chest be drive by the wave against the shore of an island .
There the brass-bound chest lay , with the Princess and her baby in it , till a man of that country come past , and saw it , and drag it on to the beach , and when he have break it open , behold !
there be a beautiful lady and a little boy .
So he take them home , and be very kind to them , and bring up the boy till he be a young man .
Now when the boy have come to his full strength the King of that country fell in love with his mother , and want to marry her , but he know that she would never part from her boy .
So he think of a plan to get rid of the boy , and this be his plan : A great Queen of a country not far off be go to be marry , and this king say that all his subject must bring him wed present to give her .
And he make a feast to which he invite them all , and they all bring their present ; some bring gold cup , and some brought necklace of gold and amber , and some bring beautiful horse ; but the boy have nothing , though he be the son of a princess , for his mother have nothing to give him .
Then the rest of the company begin to laugh at him , and the King say : `` If you have nothing else to give , at least you might go and fetch the Terrible Head . ''
The boy be proud , and speak without thinking : `` Then I swear that I will bring the Terrible Head , if it may be bring by a living man .
But of what head you speak I know not . ''
Then they tell him that somewhere , a long way off , there dwell three dreadful sister , monstrous ogrish woman , with golden wing and claw of brass , and with serpent grow on their head instead of hair .
Now these woman be so awful to look on that whoever saw them be turn at once into stone .
And two of them could not be put to death , but the young , whose face be very beautiful , could be kill , and it be her head that the boy have promise to bring .
You may imagine it be no easy adventure .
When he hear all this he be perhaps sorry that he have swear to bring the Terrible Head , but he be determine to keep his oath .
So he go out from the feast , where they all sit drinking and make merry , and he walk alone beside the sea in the dusk of the evening , at the place where the great chest , with himself and his mother in it , have be cast ashore .
There he go and sit down on a rock , look toward the sea , and wonder how he should begin to fulfill his vow .
Then he felt some one touch him on the shoulder ; and he turn , and saw a young man like a king 's son , have with him a tall and beautiful lady , whose blue eye shine like star .
They be tall than mortal men , and the young man have a staff in his hand with golden wing on it , and two golden serpent twist round it , and he have wing on his cap and on his shoe .
He speak to the boy , and ask him why he be so unhappy ; and the boy tell him how he have swear to bring the Terrible Head , and know not how to begin to set about the adventure .
Then the beautiful lady also speak , and say that `` it be a foolish oath and a hasty , but it might be keep if a brave man have swear it . ''
Then the boy answer that he be not afraid , if only he know the way .
Then the lady say that to kill the dreadful woman with the golden wing and the brass claw , and to cut off her head , he need three thing : first , a Cap of Darkness , which would make him invisible when he wear it ; next , a Sword of Sharpness , which would cleave iron at one blow ; and last , the Shoes of Swiftness , with which he might fly in the air .
The boy answer that he know not where such thing be to be procure , and that , want them , he could only try and fail .
Then the young man , take off his own shoe , say : `` First , you shall use these shoe till you have take the Terrible Head , and then you must give them back to me .
And with these shoe you will fly as fleet a a bird , or a thought , over the land or over the wave of the sea , wherever the shoe know the way .
But there be way which they do not know , roads beyond the border of the world .
And these road have you to travel .
Now first you must go to the Three Gray Sisters , who live far off in the north , and be so very cold that they have only one eye and one tooth among the three .
You must creep up close to them , and a one of them pass the eye to the other you must seize it , and refuse to give it up till they have tell you the way to the Three Fairies of the Garden , and they will give you the Cap of Darkness and the Sword of Sharpness , and show you how to wing beyond this world to the land of the Terrible Head . ''
Then the beautiful lady say : `` Go forth at once , and do not return to say good-by to your mother , for these thing must be do quickly , and the Shoes of Swiftness themselves will carry you to the land of the Three Gray Sisters -- for they know the measure of that way . ''
So the boy thank her , and he fasten on the Shoes of Swiftness , and turn to say good-by to the young man and the lady .
But , behold !
they have vanish , he know not how or where !
Then he leap in the air to try the Shoes of Swiftness , and they carry him more swiftly than the wind , over the warm blue sea , over the happy land of the south , over the northern people who drink mare 's milk and live in great wagon , wander after their flock .
Across the wide river , where the wild fowl rise and flee before him , and over the plain and the cold North Sea he go , over the field of snow and the hill of ice , to a place where the world end , and all water be frozen , and there be no men , nor beast , nor any green grass .
There in a blue cave of the ice he find the Three Gray Sisters , the old of living thing .
Their hair be as white a the snow , and their flesh of an icy blue , and they mumble and nod in a kind of dream , and their frozen breath hung round them like a cloud .
Now the opening of the cave in the ice be narrow , and it be not easy to pass in without touch one of the Gray Sisters .
But , float on the Shoes of Swiftness , the boy just manage to steal in , and wait till one of the sister say to another , who have their one eye : `` Sister , what do you see ?
do you see old time come back ? ''
`` No , sister . ''
`` Then give me the eye , for perhaps I can see farther than you . ''
Then the first sister pass the eye to the second , but a the second groped for it the boy catch it cleverly out of her hand .
`` Where be the eye , sister ? ''
say the second gray woman .
`` You have take it yourself , sister , '' say the first gray woman .
`` Have you lose the eye , sister ?
have you lose the eye ? ''
say the third gray woman ; `` shall we never find it again , and see old time come back ? ''
Then the boy slip from behind them out of the cold cave into the air , and he laugh aloud .
When the gray woman hear that laugh they begin to weep , for now they know that a stranger have rob them , and that they could not help themselves , and their tear freeze a they fell from the hollow where no eye be , and rattle on the icy ground of the cave .
Then they begin to implore the boy to give them their eye back again , and he could not help be sorry for them , they be so pitiful .
But he say he would never give them the eye till they tell him the way to the Fairies of the Garden .
Then they wring their hand miserably , for they guess why he have come , and how he be go to try to win the Terrible Head .
Now the Dreadful Women be akin to the Three Gray Sisters , and it be hard for them to tell the boy the way .
But at last they tell him to keep always south , and with the land on his left and the sea on his right , till he reach the Island of the Fairies of the Garden .
Then he give them back the eye , and they begin to look out once more for the old time come back again .
But the boy fly south between sea and land , keep the land always on his left hand , till he saw a beautiful island crown with flower tree .
There he alight , and there he find the Three Fairies of the Garden .
They be like three very beautiful young woman , dress one in green , one in white , and one in red , and they be dance and sing round an apple tree with apple of gold , and this be their song : THE SONG OF THE WESTERN FAIRIES Round and round the apple of gold , Round and round dance we ; Thus do we dance from the day of old About the enchanted tree ; Round , and round , and round we go , While the spring be green , or the stream shall flow , Or the wind shall stir the sea !
There be none may taste of the golden fruit Till the golden new time come Many a tree shall spring from shoot , Many a blossom be wither at root , Many a song be dumb ; Broken and still shall be many a lute Or ever the new time come !
Round and round the tree of gold , Round and round dance we , So doth the great world spin from of old , Summer and winter , and fire and cold , Song that be sing , and tale that be tell , Even a we dance , that fold and unfold Round the stem of the fairy tree !
These grave dance fairy be very unlike the Grey Women , and they be glad to see the boy , and treat him kindly .
Then they ask him why he have come ; and he tell them how he be send to find the Sword of Sharpness and the Cap of Darkness .
And the fairy give him these , and a wallet , and a shield , and belt the sword , which have a diamond blade , round his waist , and the cap they set on his head , and tell him that now even they could not see him though they be fairy .
Then he take it off , and they each kiss him and wish him good fortune , and then they begin again their eternal dance round the golden tree , for it be their business to guard it till the new time come , or till the world 's end .
So the boy put the cap on his head , and hang the wallet round his waist , and the shin shield on his shoulder , and fly beyond the great river that lie coil like a serpent round the whole world .
And by the bank of that river , there he find the three Terrible Women all asleep beneath a poplar tree , and the dead poplar leaf lay all about them .
Their golden wing be fold and their brass claw be cross , and two of them sleep with their hideous head beneath their wing like bird , and the serpent in their hair writhe out from under the feather of gold .
But the young slept between her two sister , and she lay on her back , with her beautiful sad face turn to the sky ; and though she sleep her eye be wide open .
If the boy have see her he would have be change into stone by the terror and the pity of it , she be so awful ; but he have think of a plan for kill her without look on her face .
As soon a he catch sight of the three from far off he take his shin shield from his shoulder , and hold it up like a mirror , so that he saw the Dreadful Women reflect in it , and do not see the Terrible Head itself .
Then he come nearer and nearer , till he reckon that he be within a sword 's stroke of the young , and he guess where he should strike a back blow behind him .
Then he draw the Sword of Sharpness and strike once , and the Terrible Head be cut from the shoulder of the creature , and the blood leap out and strike him like a blow .
But he thrust the Terrible Head into his wallet , and fly away without look behind .
Then the two Dreadful Sisters who be leave waken , and rise in the air like great bird ; and though they could not see him because of his Cap of Darkness , they fly after him up the wind , follow by the scent through the cloud , like hound hunt in a wood .
They come so close that he could hear the clatter of their golden wing , and their shriek to each other : '' here , here , '' '' no , there ; this way he go , '' a they chase him .
But the Shoes of Swiftness fly too fast for them , and at last their cry and the rattle of their wing die away a he cross the great river that run round the world .
Now when the horrible creature be far in the distance , and the boy find himself on the right side of the river , he fly straight eastward , try to seek his own country .
But a he look down from the air he saw a very strange sight -- a beautiful girl chain to a stake at the high-water mark of the sea .
The girl be so frightened or so tired that she be only prevent from fall by the iron chain about her waist , and there she hang , a if she be dead .
The boy be very sorry for her and fly down and stand beside her .
When he speak she raise her head and look round , but his voice only seem to frighten her .
Then he remember that he be wear the Cap of Darkness , and that she could only hear him , not see him .
So he take it off , and there he stand before her , the handsome young man she have ever see in all her life , with short curly yellow hair , and blue eye , and a laughing face .
And he think her the most beautiful girl in the world .
So first with one blow of the Sword of Sharpness he cut the iron chain that bind her , and then he ask her what she do there , and why men treat her so cruelly .
And she tell him that she be the daughter of the King of that country , and that she be tie there to be eat by a monstrous beast out of the sea ; for the beast come and devour a girl every day .
Now the lot have fall on her ; and a she be just say this a long fierce head of a cruel sea creature rise out of the wave and snap at the girl .
But the beast have be too greedy and too hurried , so he miss his aim the first time .
Before he could rise and bite again the boy have whip the Terrible Head out of his wallet and hold it up .
And when the sea beast leap out once more it eye fell on the head , and instantly it be turn into a stone .
And the stone beast be there on the sea-coast to this day .
Then the boy and the girl go to the palace of the King , her father , where everyone be weep for her death , and they could hardly believe their eye when they saw her come back well .
And the King and Queen make much of the boy , and could not contain themselves for delight when they find he want to marry their daughter .
So the two be marry with the most splendid rejoicing , and when they have pass some time at court they go home in a ship to the boy 's own country .
For he could not carry his bride through the air , so he take the Shoes of Swiftness , and the Cap of Darkness , and the Sword of Sharpness up to a lonely place in the hill .
There he leave them , and there they be find by the man and woman who have meet him at home beside the sea , and have help him to start on his journey .
When this have be do the boy and his bride set forth for home , and land at the harbor of his native land .
But whom should he meet in the very street of the town but his own mother , fly for her life from the wicked King , who now wish to kill her because he find that she would never marry him !
For if she have like the King ill before , she like him far bad now that he have cause her son to disappear so suddenly .
She do not know , of course , where the boy have go , but think the King have slay him secretly .
So now she be run for her very life , and the wicked King be follow her with a sword in his hand .
Then , behold !
she run into her son 's very arm , but he have only time to kiss her and step in front of her , when the King struck at him with his sword .
The boy catch the blow on his shield , and cry to the King : `` I swear to bring you the Terrible Head , and see how I keep my oath ! ''
Then he draw forth the head from his wallet , and when the King 's eye fell on it , instantly he be turn into stone , just a he stand there with his sword lift !
Now all the people rejoice , because the wicked King should rule them no longer .
And they ask the boy to be their king , but he say no , he must take his mother home to her father 's house .
So the people choose for king the man who have be kind to his mother when first she be cast on the island in the great chest .
Presently the boy and his mother and his wife set sail for his mother 's own country , from which she have be drive so unkindly .
But on the way they stay at the court of a king , and it happen that he be hold game , and give prize to the best runner , boxer , and quoit-throwers .
Then the boy would try his strength with the rest , but he throw the quoit so far that it go beyond what have ever be throw before , and fell in the crowd , strike a man so that he die .
Now this man be no other than the father of the boy 's mother , who have flee away from his own kingdom for fear his grandson should find him and kill him after all .
Thus he be destroy by his own cowardice and by chance , and thus the prophecy be fulfil .
But the boy and his wife and his mother go back to the kingdom that be theirs , and live long and happily after all their trouble .
THE STORY OF PRETTY GOLDILOCKS Once upon a time there be a princess who be the pretty creature in the world .
And because she be so beautiful , and because her hair be like the fine gold , and wave and ripple nearly to the ground , she be call Pretty Goldilocks .
She always wear a crown of flower , and her dress be embroider with diamond and pearl , and everybody who saw her fell in love with her .
Now one of her neighbor be a young king who be not marry .
He be very rich and handsome , and when he hear all that be say about Pretty Goldilocks , though he have never see her , he fell so deeply in love with her that he could neither eat nor drink .
So he resolve to send an ambassador to ask her in marriage .
He have a splendid carriage make for his ambassador , and give him more than a hundred horse and a hundred servant , and tell him to be sure and bring the Princess back with him .
After he have start nothing else be talk of at Court , and the King felt so sure that the Princess would consent that he set his people to work at pretty dress and splendid furniture , that they might be ready by the time she come .
Meanwhile , the ambassador arrive at the Princess 's palace and deliver his little message , but whether she happen to be cross that day , or whether the compliment do not please her , be not know .
She only answer that she be very much oblige to the King , but she have no wish to be marry .
The ambassador set off sadly on his homeward way , bring all the King 's present back with him , for the Princess be too well bring up to accept the pearl and diamond when she would not accept the King , so she have only keep twenty-five English pin that he might not be vex .
When the ambassador reach the city , where the King be wait impatiently , everybody be very much annoy with him for not bring the Princess , and the King cry like a baby , and nobody could console him .
Now there be at the Court a young man , who be more clever and handsome than anyone else .
He be call Charming , and everyone love him , except a few envious people who be angry at his be the King 's favorite and know all the State secret .
He happen to one day be with some people who be speak of the ambassador 's return and say that his go to the Princess have not do much good , when Charming say rashly : `` If the King have send me to the Princess Goldilocks I be sure she would have come back with me . ''
His enemy at once go to the King and say : `` You will hardly believe , sire , what Charming have the audacity to say -- that if he have be send to the Princess Goldilocks she would certainly have come back with him .
He seem to think that he be so much handsome than you that the Princess would have fall in love with him and follow him willingly . ''
The King be very angry when he hear this .
`` Ha , ha ! ''
say he ; `` do he laugh at my unhappiness , and think himself more fascinating than I be ?
Go , and let him be shut up in my great tower to die of hunger . ''
So the King 's guard go to fetch Charming , who have think no more of his rash speech , and carry him off to prison with great cruelty .
The poor prisoner have only a little straw for his bed , and but for a little stream of water which flow through the tower he would have die of thirst .
One day when he be in despair he say to himself : `` How can I have offend the King ?
I be his most faithful subject , and have do nothing against him . ''
The King chance to be pass the tower and recognize the voice of his former favorite .
He stop to listen in spite of Charming 's enemy , who try to persuade him to have nothing more to do with the traitor .
But the King say : `` Be quiet , I wish to hear what he say . ''
And then he open the tower door and call to Charming , who come very sadly and kiss the King 's hand , say : `` What have I do , sire , to deserve this cruel treatment ? ''
`` You mock me and my ambassador , '' say the King , `` and you say that if I have send you for the Princess Goldilocks you would certainly have bring her back . ''
`` It be quite true , sire , '' reply Charming ; `` I should have draw such a picture of you , and represent your good quality in such a way , that I be certain the Princess would have find you irresistible .
But I can not see what there be in that to make you angry . ''
The King could not see any cause for anger either when the matter be present to him in this light , and he begin to frown very fiercely at the courtier who have so misrepresent his favorite .
So he take Charming back to the palace with him , and after see that he have a very good supper he say to him : `` You know that I love Pretty Goldilocks as much a ever , her refusal have not make any difference to me ; but I do n't know how to make her change her mind ; I really should like to send you , to see if you can persuade her to marry me . ''
Charming reply that he be perfectly willing to go , and would set out the very next day .
`` But you must wait till I can get a grand escort for you , '' say the King .
But Charming say that he only want a good horse to ride , and the King , who be delight at his be ready to start so promptly , give him letter to the Princess , and bid him good speed .
It be on a Monday morning that he set out all alone upon his errand , thinking of nothing but how he could persuade the Princess Goldilocks to marry the King .
He have a writing-book in his pocket , and whenever any happy think strike him he dismount from his horse and sit down under the tree to put it into the harangue which he be prepare for the Princess , before he forget it .
One day when he have start at the very early dawn , and be rid over a great meadow , he suddenly have a capital idea , and , spring from his horse , he sit down under a willow tree which grow by a little river .
When he have write it down he be look round him , please to find himself in such a pretty place , when all at once he saw a great golden carp lie gasping and exhaust upon the grass .
In leap after little fly she have throw herself high upon the bank , where she have lain till she be nearly dead .
Charming have pity upon her , and , though he could n't help think that she would have be very nice for dinner , he pick her up gently and put her back into the water .
As soon a Dame Carp felt the refresh coolness of the water she sink down joyfully to the bottom of the river , then , swim up to the bank quite boldly , she say : `` I thank you , Charming , for the kindness you have do me .
You have save my life ; one day I will repay you . ''
So say , she sink down into the water again , leave Charming greatly astonish at her politeness .
Another day , a he journey on , he saw a raven in great distress .
The poor bird be closely pursue by an eagle , which would soon have eat it up , have not Charming quickly fit an arrow to his bow and shoot the eagle dead .
The raven perch upon a tree very joyfully .
`` Charming , '' say he , `` it be very generous of you to rescue a poor raven ; I be not ungrateful , some day I will repay you . ''
Charming think it be very nice of the raven to say so , and go on his way .
Before the sun rise he find himself in a thick wood where it be too dark for him to see his path , and here he hear an owl cry a if it be in despair .
`` Hark ! ''
say he , `` that must be an owl in great trouble , I be sure it have go into a snare '' ; and he begin to hunt about , and presently find a great net which some bird-catchers have spread the night before .
`` What a pity it be that men do nothing but torment and persecute poor creature which never do them any harm ! ''
say he , and he take out his knife and cut the cord of the net , and the owl flit away into the darkness , but then turn , with one flicker of her wing , she come back to Charming and say : `` It do not need many word to tell you how great a service you have do me .
I be catch ; in a few minute the fowler would have be here -- without your help I should have be kill .
I be grateful , and one day I will repay you . ''
These three adventure be the only one of any consequence that befall Charming upon his journey , and he make all the haste he could to reach the palace of the Princess Goldilocks .
When he arrive he think everything he saw delightful and magnificent .
Diamonds be as plentiful a pebble , and the gold and silver , the beautiful dress , the sweetmeat and pretty thing that be everywhere quite amazed him ; he think to himself : `` If the Princess consent to leave all this , and come with me to marry the King , he may think himself lucky ! ''
Then he dress himself carefully in rich brocade , with scarlet and white plume , and throw a splendid embroider scarf over his shoulder , and , look a gay and as graceful a possible , he present himself at the door of the palace , carry in his arm a tiny pretty dog which he have buy on the way .
The guard salute him respectfully , and a messenger be send to the Princess to announce the arrival of Charming a ambassador of her neighbor the King .
`` Charming , '' say the Princess , `` the name promise well ; I have no doubt that he be good look and fascinates everybody . ''
`` Indeed he do , madam , '' say all her maid of honor in one breath .
`` We saw him from the window of the garret where we be spin flax , and we could do nothing but look at him as long a he be in sight . ''
`` Well to be sure , '' say the Princess , `` that 's how you amuse yourselves , be it ?
Looking at stranger out of the window !
Be quick and give me my blue satin embroider dress , and comb out my golden hair .
Let somebody make me fresh garland of flower , and give me my high-heeled shoe and my fan , and tell them to sweep my great hall and my throne , for I want everyone to say I be really ` Pretty Goldilocks . ' ''
You can imagine how all her maid scurry this way and that to make the Princess ready , and how in their haste they knock their head together and hinder each other , till she think they would never have do .
However , at last they lead her into the gallery of mirror that she might assure herself that nothing be lack in her appearance , and then she mount her throne of gold , ebony , and ivory , while her lady take their guitar and begin to sing softly .
Then Charming be lead in , and be so struck with astonishment and admiration that at first not a word could he say .
But presently he take courage and deliver his harangue , bravely end by beg the Princess to spare him the disappointment of go back without her .
`` Sir Charming , '' answer she , `` all the reason you have give me be very good one , and I assure you that I should have more pleasure in oblige you than anyone else , but you must know that a month ago a I be walk by the river with my lady I take off my glove , and a I do so a ring that I be wear slip off my finger and roll into the water .
As I value it more than my kingdom , you may imagine how vexed I be at lose it , and I vow to never listen to any proposal of marriage unless the ambassador first bring me back my ring .
So now you know what be expect of you , for if you talk for fifteen day and fifteen night you could not make me change my mind . ''
Charming be very much surprise by this answer , but he bow low to the Princess , and beg her to accept the embroidered scarf and the tiny dog he have bring with him .
But she answer that she do not want any present , and that he be to remember what she have just tell him .
When he get back to his lodging he go to bed without eat any supper , and his little dog , who be call Frisk , could n't eat any either , but come and lay down close to him .
All night Charming sigh and lament .
`` How be I to find a ring that fell into the river a month ago ? ''
say he .
`` It be useless to try ; the Princess must have tell me to do it on purpose , know it be impossible . ''
And then he sigh again .
Frisk hear him and say : `` My dear master , do n't despair ; the luck may change , you be too good not to be happy .
Let u go down to the river as soon a it be light . ''
But Charming only give him two little pat and say nothing , and very soon he fell asleep .
At the first glimmer of dawn Frisk begin to jump about , and when he have wake Charming they go out together , first into the garden , and then down to the river 's brink , where they wander up and down .
Charming be think sadly of have to go back unsuccessful when he hear someone call : `` Charming , Charming ! ''
He look all about him and think he must be dream , a he could not see anybody .
Then he walk on and the voice call again : `` Charming , Charming ! ''
`` Who call me ? ''
say he .
Frisk , who be very small and could look closely into the water , cry out : `` I see a golden carp come . ''
And sure enough there be the great carp , who say to Charming : `` You save my life in the meadow by the willow tree , and I promise that I would repay you .
Take this , it be Princess Goldilock 's ring . ''
Charming take the ring out of Dame Carp 's mouth , thank her a thousand time , and he and tiny Frisk go straight to the palace , where someone tell the Princess that he be ask to see her .
`` Ah !
poor fellow , '' say she , `` he must have come to say good-by , find it impossible to do a I ask . ''
So in come Charming , who present her with the ring and say : `` Madam , I have do your bidding .
Will it please you to marry my master ? ''
When the Princess saw her ring bring back to her unhurt she be so astonished that she think she must be dream .
`` Truly , Charming , '' say she , `` you must be the favorite of some fairy , or you could never have find it . ''
`` Madam , '' answer he , `` I be help by nothing but my desire to obey your wish . ''
`` Since you be so kind , '' say she , `` perhaps you will do me another service , for till it be do I will never be marry .
There be a prince not far from here whose name be Galifron , who once want to marry me , but when I refuse he utter the most terrible threat against me , and vow that he would lay waste my country .
But what could I do ?
I could not marry a frightful giant a tall a a tower , who eat up people a a monkey eats chestnut , and who talk so loud that anybody who have to listen to him become quite deaf .
Nevertheless , he do not cease to persecute me and to kill my subject .
So before I can listen to your proposal you must kill him and bring me his head . ''
Charming be rather dismay at this command , but he answer : `` Very well , Princess , I will fight this Galifron ; I believe that he will kill me , but at any rate I shall die in your defense . ''
Then the Princess be frighten and say everything she could think of to prevent Charming from fight the giant , but it be of no use , and he go out to arm himself suitably , and then , take little Frisk with him , he mount his horse and set out for Galifron 's country .
Everyone he meet tell him what a terrible giant Galifron be , and that nobody dare go near him ; and the more he heard , the more frightened he grow .
Frisk try to encourage him by say : `` While you be fight the giant , dear master , I will go and bite his heel , and when he stoop down to look at me you can kill him . ''
Charming praise his little dog 's plan , but know that this help would not do much good .
At last he draw near the giant 's castle , and saw to his horror that every path that lead to it be strew with bone .
Before long he saw Galifron come .
His head be high than the tall tree , and he sing in a terrible voice : `` Bring out your little boy and girl , Pray do not stay to do their curl , For I shall eat so very many , I shall not know if they have any . ''
Thereupon Charming sing out as loud a he could to the same tune : `` Come out and meet the valiant Charming Who find you not at all alarm ; Although he be not very tall , He 's big enough to make you fall . ''
The rhyme be not very correct , but you see he have make them up so quickly that it be a miracle that they be not bad ; especially a he be horribly frighten all the time .
When Galifron hear these word he look all about him , and saw Charming standing , sword in hand this put the giant into a terrible rage , and he aim a blow at Charming with his huge iron club , which would certainly have kill him if it have reach him , but at that instant a raven perch upon the giant 's head , and , peck with it strong beak and beating with it great wing so confused and blind him that all his blow fell harmlessly upon the air , and Charming , rush in , give him several stroke with his sharp sword so that he fell to the ground .
Whereupon Charming cut off his head before he know anything about it , and the raven from a tree close by croak out : `` You see I have not forget the good turn you do me in kill the eagle .
To-day I think I have fulfil my promise of repay you . ''
`` Indeed , I owe you more gratitude than you ever owe me , '' reply Charming .
And then he mount his horse and ride off with Galifron 's head .
When he reach the city the people run after him in crowd , cry : `` Behold the brave Charming , who have kill the giant ! ''
And their shout reach the Princess 's ear , but she dare not ask what be happen , for fear she should hear that Charming have be kill .
But very soon he arrive at the palace with the giant 's head , of which she be still terrify , though it could no longer do her any harm .
`` Princess , '' say Charming , `` I have kill your enemy ; I hope you will now consent to marry the King my master . ''
`` Oh dear !
no , '' say the Princess , `` not until you have bring me some water from the Gloomy Cavern .
`` Not far from here there be a deep cave , the entrance to which be guard by two dragon with fiery eye , who will not allow anyone to pass them .
When you get into the cavern you will find an immense hole , which you must go down , and it be full of toad and snake ; at the bottom of this hole there be another little cave , in which rise the Fountain of Health and Beauty .
It be some of this water that I really must have : everything it touch becomes wonderful .
The beautiful thing will always remain beautiful , and the ugly thing become lovely .
If one be young one never grow old , and if one be old one become young .
You see , Charming , I could not leave my kingdom without take some of it with me . ''
`` Princess , '' say he , `` you at least can never need this water , but I be an unhappy ambassador , whose death you desire .
Where you send me I will go , though I know I shall never return . ''
And , a the Princess Goldilocks show no sign of relent , he start with his little dog for the Gloomy Cavern .
Everyone he meet on the way say : `` What a pity that a handsome young man should throw away his life so carelessly !
He be go to the cavern alone , though if he have a hundred men with him he could not succeed .
Why do the Princess ask impossibility ? ''
Charming say nothing , but he be very sad .
When he be near the top of a hill he dismount to let his horse graze , while Frisk amuse himself by chase fly .
Charming know he could not be far from the Gloomy Cavern , and on look about him he saw a black hideous rock from which come a thick smoke , follow in a moment by one of the dragon with fire blazing from his mouth and eye .
His body be yellow and green , and his claw scarlet , and his tail be so long that it lay in a hundred coil .
Frisk be so terrify at the sight of it that he do not know where to hide .
Charming , quite determine to get the water or die , now draw his sword , and , take the crystal flask which Pretty Goldilocks have give him to fill , say to Frisk : `` I feel sure that I shall never come back from this expedition ; when I be dead , go to the Princess and tell her that her errand have cost me my life .
Then find the King my master , and relate all my adventure to him . ''
As he speak he hear a voice call : `` Charming , Charming ! ''
`` Who call me ? ''
say he ; then he saw an owl sit in a hollow tree , who say to him : `` You save my life when I be catch in the net , now I can repay you .
Trust me with the flask , for I know all the way of the Gloomy Cavern , and can fill it from the Fountain of Beauty . ''
Charming be only too glad to give her the flask , and she flit into the cavern quite unnoticed by the dragon , and after some time return with the flask , fill to the very brim with sparkling water .
Charming thank her with all his heart , and joyfully hasten back to the town .
He go straight to the palace and give the flask to the Princess , who have no further objection to make .
So she thank Charming , and order that preparation should be make for her departure , and they soon set out together .
The Princess find Charming such an agreeable companion that she sometimes say to him : `` Why do n't we stay where we be ?
I could have make you king , and we should have be so happy ! ''
But Charming only answer : `` I could not have do anything that would have vex my master so much , even for a kingdom , or to please you , though I think you be as beautiful a the sun . ''
At last they reach the King 's great city , and he come out to meet the Princess , bring magnificent present , and the marriage be celebrate with great rejoicing .
But Goldilocks be so fond of Charming that she could not be happy unless he be near her , and she be always sing his praise .
`` If it have n't be for Charming , '' she say to the King , `` I should never have come here ; you ought to be very much oblige to him , for he do the most impossible thing and get me water from the Fountain of Beauty , so I can never grow old , and shall get pretty every year . ''
Then Charming 's enemy say to the King : `` It be a wonder that you be not jealous , the Queen think there be nobody in the world like Charming .
As if anybody you have send could not have do just as much ! ''
`` It be quite true , now I come to think of it , '' say the King .
`` Let him be chain hand and foot , and thrown into the tower . ''
So they take Charming , and a a reward for have serve the King so faithfully he be shut up in the tower , where he only saw the jailer , who bring him a piece of black bread and a pitcher of water every day .
However , little Frisk come to console him , and tell him all the news .
When Pretty Goldilocks hear what have happen she throw herself at the King 's foot and beg him to set Charming free , but the more she cry , the more angry he be , and at last she saw that it be useless to say any more ; but it make her very sad .
Then the King take it into his head that perhaps he be not handsome enough to please the Princess Goldilocks , and he think he would bathe his face with the water from the Fountain of Beauty , which be in the flask on a shelf in the Princess 's room , where she have place it that she might see it often .
Now it happen that one of the Princess 's lady in chase a spider have knock the flask off the shelf and break it , and every drop of the water have be spill .
Not know what to do , she have hastily sweep away the piece of crystal , and then remember that in the King 's room she have see a flask of exactly the same shape , also fill with sparkling water .
So , without say a word , she fetch it and stand it upon the Queen 's shelf .
Now the water in this flask be what be use in the kingdom for get rid of troublesome people .
Instead of have their head cut off in the usual way , their face be bath with the water , and they instantly fell asleep and never wake up any more .
So , when the King , think to improve his beauty , take the flask and sprinkle the water upon his face , he fell asleep , and nobody could wake him .
Little Frisk be the first to hear the news , and he run to tell Charming , who send him to beg the Princess not to forget the poor prisoner .
All the palace be in confusion on account of the King 's death , but tiny Frisk make his way through the crowd to the Princess 's side , and say : `` Madam , do not forget poor Charming . ''
Then she remember all he have do for her , and without say a word to anyone go straight to the tower , and with her own hand take off Charming 's chain .
Then , put a golden crown upon his head , and the royal mantle upon his shoulder , she say : `` Come , faithful Charming , I make you king , and will take you for my husband . ''
Charming , once more free and happy , fell at her foot and thank her for her gracious word .
Everybody be delighted that he should be king , and the wedding , which take place at once , be the pretty that can be imagine , and Prince Charming and Princess Goldilocks live happily ever after .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Madame d'Aulnoy .
THE HISTORY OF WHITTINGTON Dick Whittington be a very little boy when his father and mother die ; so little , indeed , that he never know them , nor the place where he be bear .
He stroll about the country as rag a a colt , till he meet with a wagoner who be go to London , and who give him leave to walk all the way by the side of his wagon without pay anything for his passage .
This pleased little Whittington very much , a he want to see London sadly , for he have hear that the street be pave with gold , and he be willing to get a bushel of it ; but how great be his disappointment , poor boy !
when he saw the street cover with dirt instead of gold , and find himself in a strange place , without a friend , without food , and without money .
Though the wagoner be so charitable a to let him walk up by the side of the wagon for nothing , he take care not to know him when he come to town , and the poor boy be , in a little time , so cold and hungry that he wish himself in a good kitchen and by a warm fire in the country .
In his distress he ask charity of several people , and one of them bid him `` Go to work for an idle rogue . ''
`` That I will , '' say Whittington , `` with all my heart ; I will work for you if you will let me . ''
The man , who think this savor of wit and impertinence -LRB- though the poor lad intend only to show his readiness to work -RRB- , give him a blow with a stick which break his head so that the blood run down .
In this situation , and faint for want of food , he lay himself down at the door of one Mr. Fitzwarren , a merchant , where the cook saw him , and , be an ill-natured hussy , order him to go about his business or she would scald him .
At this time Mr. Fitzwarren come from the Exchange , and begin also to scold at the poor boy , bid him to go to work .
Whittington answer that he should be glad to work if anybody would employ him , and that he should be able if he could get some victual to eat , for he have have nothing for three day , and he be a poor country boy , and know nobody , and nobody would employ him .
He then endeavor to get up , but he be so very weak that he fell down again , which excite so much compassion in the merchant that he order the servant to take him in and give him some meat and drink , and let him help the cook to do any dirty work that she have to set him about .
People be too apt to reproach those who beg with be idle , but give themselves no concern to put them in the way of get business to do , or consider whether they be able to do it , which be not charity .
But we return to Whittington , who could have live happy in this worthy family have he not be bump about by the cross cook , who must be always roast and basting , or when the spit be idle employ her hand upon poor Whittington !
At last Miss Alice , his master 's daughter , be inform of it , and then she take compassion on the poor boy , and make the servant treat him kindly .
Besides the crossness of the cook , Whittington have another difficulty to get over before he could be happy .
He have , by order of his master , a flock-bed place for him in a garret , where there be a number of rat and mouse that often run over the poor boy 's nose and disturb him in his sleep .
After some time , however , a gentleman who come to his master 's house give Whittington a penny for brush his shoe .
This he put into his pocket , be determine to lay it out to the best advantage ; and the next day , see a woman in the street with a cat under her arm , he run up to know the price of it .
The woman -LRB- a the cat be a good mouser -RRB- ask a deal of money for it , but on Whittington 's tell her he have but a penny in the world , and that he want a cat sadly , she let him have it .
This cat Whittington conceal in the garret , for fear she should be beat about by his mortal enemy the cook , and here she soon kill or frighten away the rat and mouse , so that the poor boy could now sleep as sound a a top .
Soon after this the merchant , who have a ship ready to sail , call for his servant , a his custom be , in order that each of them might venture something to try their luck ; and whatever they send be to pay neither freight nor custom , for he think justly that God Almighty would bless him the more for his readiness to let the poor partake of his fortune .
All the servant appear but poor Whittington , who , have neither money nor good , could not think of send anything to try his luck ; but his good friend Miss Alice , think his poverty keep him away , order him to be call .
She then offer to lay down something for him , but the merchant tell his daughter that would not do , it must be something of his own .
Upon which poor Whittington say he have nothing but a cat which he buy for a penny that be give him .
`` Fetch thy cat , boy , '' say the merchant , `` and send her . ''
Whittington bring poor pus and deliver her to the captain , with tear in his eye , for he say he should now be disturb by the rat and mouse as much a ever .
All the company laugh at the adventure but Miss Alice , who pity the poor boy , and give him something to buy another cat .
While pus be beat the billow at sea , poor Whittington be severely beat at home by his tyrannical mistress the cook , who use him so cruelly , and make such game of him for send his cat to sea , that at last the poor boy determine to run away from his place , and have pack up the few thing he have , he set out very early in the morning on All-Hallows day .
He travel as far a Holloway , and there sit down on a stone to consider what course he should take ; but while he be thus ruminate , Bow bell , of which there be only six , begin to ring ; and he think their sound address him in this manner : `` Turn again , Whittington , Thrice Lord Mayor of London . ''
`` Lord Mayor of London ! ''
say he to himself , `` what would not one endure to be Lord Mayor of London , and ride in such a fine coach ?
Well , I 'll go back again , and bear all the pummelling and ill-usage of Cicely rather than miss the opportunity of be Lord Mayor ! ''
So home he go , and happily get into the house and about his business before Mrs. Cicely make her appearance .
We must now follow Miss Puss to the coast of Africa .
How perilous be voyage at sea , how uncertain the wind and the wave , and how many accident attend a naval life !
The ship that have the cat on board be long beat at sea , and at last , by contrary wind , drive on a part of the coast of Barbary which be inhabit by Moors unknown to the English .
These people receive our countryman with civility , and therefore the captain , in order to trade with them , show them the pattern of the good he have on board , and send some of them to the King of the country , who be so well pleased that he send for the captain and the factor to come to his palace , which be about a mile from the sea .
Here they be place , accord to the custom of the country , on rich carpet , flower with gold and silver ; and the King and Queen be seat at the upper end of the room , dinner be bring in , which consist of many dish ; but no sooner be the dish put down but an amazing number of rat and mouse come from all quarter and devour all the meat in an instant .
The factor , in surprise , turn round to the noble and ask if these vermin be not offensive .
`` Oh !
yes , '' say they , `` very offensive ; and the King would give half his treasure to be free of them , for they not only destroy his dinner , a you see , but they assault him in his chamber , and even in bed , so that he be oblige to be watch while he be sleep , for fear of them . ''
The factor jump for joy ; he remember poor Whittington and his cat , and tell the King he have a creature on board the ship that would despatch all these vermin immediately .
The King 's heart heave so high at the joy which this news give him that his turban drop off his head .
`` Bring this creature to me , '' say he ; `` vermin be dreadful in a court , and if she will perform what you say I will load your ship with gold and jewel in exchange for her . ''
The factor , who know his business , take this opportunity to set forth the merit of Miss Puss .
He tell his Majesty that it would be inconvenient to part with her , a , when she be go , the rat and mouse might destroy the good in the ship -- but to oblige his Majesty he would fetch her .
`` Run , run , '' say the Queen ; `` I be impatient to see the dear creature . ''
Away fly the factor , while another dinner be provide , and return with the cat just a the rat and mouse be devour that also .
He immediately put down Miss Puss , who kill a great number of them .
The King rejoice greatly to see his old enemy destroy by so small a creature , and the Queen be highly pleased , and desire the cat might be bring near that she might look at her .
Upon which the factor call `` Pussy , pussy , pussy ! ''
and she come to him .
He then present her to the Queen , who start back , and be afraid to touch a creature who have make such havoc among the rat and mouse ; however , when the factor stroke the cat and call `` Pussy , pussy ! ''
the Queen also touch her and cry `` Putty , putty ! ''
for she have not learn English .
He then put her down on the Queen 's lap , where she , purr , play with her Majesty 's hand , and then sing herself to sleep .
The King , have see the exploit of Miss Puss , and be inform that her kitten would stock the whole country , bargain with the captain and factor for the whole ship 's cargo , and then give them ten time as much for the cat a all the rest amount to .
On which , take leave of their Majesties and other great personage at court , they sail with a fair wind for England , whither we must now attend them .
The morn have scarcely dawn when Mr. Fitzwarren arise to count over the cash and settle the business for that day .
He have just enter the counting-house , and seat himself at the desk , when somebody come , tap , tap , at the door .
`` Who 's there ? ''
say Mr. Fitzwarren .
`` A friend , '' answer the other .
`` What friend can come at this unseasonable time ? ''
`` A real friend be never unseasonable , '' answer the other .
`` I come to bring you good news of your ship Unicorn . ''
The merchant bustle up in such a hurry that he forget his gout ; instantly open the door , and who should be see wait but the captain and factor , with a cabinet of jewel , and a bill of lading , for which the merchant lift up his eye and thank heaven for send him such a prosperous voyage .
Then they tell him the adventure of the cat , and show him the cabinet of jewel which they have bring for Mr. Whittington .
Upon which he cry out with great earnestness , but not in the most poetical manner : `` Go , send him in , and tell him of his fame , And call him Mr. Whittington by name . ''
It be not our business to animadvert upon these line ; we be not critic , but historian .
It be sufficient for u that they be the word of Mr. Fitzwarren ; and though it be beside our purpose , and perhaps not in our power to prove him a good poet , we shall soon convince the reader that he be a good man , which be a much good character ; for when some who be present tell him that this treasure be too much for such a poor boy a Whittington , he say : `` God forbid that I should deprive him of a penny ; it be his own , and he shall have it to a farthing . ''
He then order Mr. Whittington in , who be at this time clean the kitchen and would have excuse himself from go into the counting-house , say the room be swept and his shoe be dirty and full of hob-nails .
The merchant , however , make him come in , and order a chair to be set for him .
Upon which , think they intend to make sport of him , a have be too often the case in the kitchen , he beseech his master not to mock a poor simple fellow , who intend them no harm , but let him go about his business .
The merchant , take him by the hand , say : `` Indeed , Mr. Whittington , I be in earnest with you , and send for you to congratulate you on your great success .
Your cat have procure you more money than I be worth in the world , and may you long enjoy it and be happy ! ''
At length , be show the treasure , and convince by them that all of it belong to him , he fell upon his knee and thank the Almighty for his providential care of such a poor and miserable creature .
He then lay all the treasure at his master 's foot , who refuse to take any part of it , but tell him he heartily rejoice at his prosperity , and hop the wealth he have acquire would be a comfort to him , and would make him happy .
He then apply to his mistress , and to his good friend Miss Alice , who refuse to take any part of the money , but tell him she heartily rejoice at his good success , and wish him all imaginable felicity .
He then gratify the captain , factor , and the ship 's crew for the care they have take of his cargo .
He likewise distribute present to all the servant in the house , not forget even his old enemy the cook , though she little deserve it .
After this Mr. Fitzwarren advise Mr. Whittington to send for the necessary people and dress himself like a gentleman , and make him the offer of his house to live in till he could provide himself with a good .
Now it come to pass when Mr. Whittington 's face be wash , his hair curl , and he dress in a rich suit of clothes , that he turn out a genteel young fellow ; and , a wealth contributes much to give a man confidence , he in a little time drop that sheepish behavior which be principally occasion by a depression of spirit , and soon grow a sprightly and good companion , insomuch that Miss Alice , who have formerly pity him , now fell in love with him .
When her father perceive they have this good liking for each other he propose a match between them , to which both party cheerfully consent , and the Lord Mayor , Court of Aldermen , Sheriffs , the Company of Stationers , the Royal Academy of Arts , and a number of eminent merchant attend the ceremony , and be elegantly treat at an entertainment make for that purpose .
History further relates that they live very happy , have several child , and die at a good old age .
Mr. Whittington serve a Sheriff of London and be three time Lord Mayor .
In the last year of his mayoralty he entertain King Henry V and his Queen , after his conquest of France , upon which occasion the King , in consideration of Whittington 's merit , say : `` Never have prince such a subject '' ; which be tell to Whittington at the table , he reply : `` Never have subject such a king . ''
His Majesty , out of respect to his good character , confer the honor of knighthood on him soon after .
Sir Richard many year before his death constantly feed a great number of poor citizen , build a church and a college to it , with a yearly allowance for poor scholar , and near it erect a hospital .
He also build Newgate for criminal , and give liberally to St. Bartholomew 's Hospital and other public charity .
THE WONDERFUL SHEEP Once upon a time -- in the day when the fairy live -- there be a king who have three daughter , who be all young , and clever , and beautiful ; but the young of the three , who be call Miranda , be the prettiest and the most beloved .
The King , her father , give her more dress and jewel in a month than he give the others in a year ; but she be so generous that she share everything with her sister , and they be all a happy and a fond of one another a they could be .
Now , the King have some quarrelsome neighbor , who , tire of leave him in peace , begin to make war upon him so fiercely that he fear he would be altogether beaten if he do not make an effort to defend himself .
So he collect a great army and set off to fight them , leave the Princesses with their governess in a castle where news of the war be bring every day -- sometimes that the King have take a town , or win a battle , and , at last , that he have altogether overcome his enemy and chase them out of his kingdom , and be come back to the castle as quickly a possible , to see his dear little Miranda whom he love so much .
The three Princesses put on dress of satin , which they have have make on purpose for this great occasion , one green , one blue , and the third white ; their jewel be the same color .
The eldest wore emerald , the second turquoise , and the young diamond , and thus adorn they go to meet the King , sing verse which they have compose about his victory .
When he saw them all so beautiful and so gay he embrace them tenderly , but give Miranda more kiss than either of the others .
Presently a splendid banquet be serve , and the King and his daughter sit down to it , and a he always think that there be some special meaning in everything , he say to the eldest : `` Tell me why you have choose a green dress . ''
`` Sire , '' she answer , `` have heard of your victory I think that green would signify my joy and the hope of your speedy return . ''
`` That be a very good answer , '' say the King ; `` and you , my daughter , '' he continue , `` why do you take a blue dress ? ''
`` Sire , '' say the Princess , `` to show that we constantly hop for your success , and that the sight of you be as welcome to me a the sky with it most beautiful star . ''
`` Why , '' say the King , `` your wise answer astonish me , and you , Miranda .
What make you dress yourself all in white ?
`` Because , sire , '' she answer , `` white suit me good than anything else . ''
`` What ! ''
say the King angrily , `` be that all you think of , vain child ? ''
`` I think you would be please with me , '' say the Princess ; `` that be all . ''
The King , who love her , be satisfy with this , and even pretend to be please that she have not tell him all her reason at first .
`` And now , '' say he , `` a I have sup well , and it be not time yet to go to bed , tell me what you dream last night . ''
The eldest say she have dream that he bring her a dress , and the precious stone and gold embroidery on it be bright than the sun .
The dream of the second be that the King have bring her a spinning wheel and a distaff , that she might spin him some shirt .
But the young say : `` I dream that my second sister be to be marry , and on her wedding-day , you , father , hold a golden ewer and say : ` Come , Miranda , and I will hold the water that you may dip your hand in it . ' ''
The King be very angry indeed when he hear this dream , and frown horribly ; indeed , he make such an ugly face that everyone know how angry he be , and he get up and go off to bed in a great hurry ; but he could not forget his daughter 's dream .
`` Does the proud girl wish to make me her slave ? ''
he say to himself .
`` I be not surprised at her choose to dress herself in white satin without a thought of me .
She do not think me worthy of her consideration !
But I will soon put an end to her pretension ! ''
He rise in a fury , and although it be not yet daylight , he send for the Captain of his Bodyguard , and say to him : `` You have hear the Princess Miranda 's dream ?
I consider that it mean strange thing against me , therefore I order you to take her away into the forest and kill her , and , that I may be sure it be do , you must bring me her heart and her tongue .
If you attempt to deceive me you shall be put to death ! ''
The Captain of the Guard be very much astonish when he hear this barbarous order , but he do not dare to contradict the King for fear of make him still more angry , or cause him to send someone else , so he answer that he would fetch the Princess and do a the King have say .
When he go to her room they would hardly let him in , it be so early , but he say that the King have send for Miranda , and she get up quickly and come out ; a little black girl call Patypata hold up her train , and her pet monkey and her little dog ran after her .
The monkey be call Grabugeon , and the little dog Tintin .
The Captain of the Guard beg Miranda to come down into the garden where the King be enjoy the fresh air , and when they get there , he pretend to search for him , but a he be not to be find , he say : `` No doubt his Majesty have stroll into the forest , '' and he open the little door that lead to it and they go through .
By this time the daylight have begin to appear , and the Princess , look at her conductor , saw that he have tear in his eye and seem too sad to speak .
`` What be the matter ? ''
she say in the kind way .
`` You seem very sorrowful . ''
`` Alas !
Princess , '' he answer , `` who would not be sorrowful who be order to do such a terrible thing a I be ?
The King have command me to kill you here , and carry your heart and your tongue to him , and if I disobey I shall lose my life . ''
The poor Princess be terrify , she grow very pale and begin to cry softly .
Looking up at the Captain of the Guard with her beautiful eye , she say gently : `` Will you really have the heart to kill me ?
I have never do you any harm , and have always speak well of you to the King .
If I have deserve my father 's anger I would suffer without a murmur , but , ala !
he be unjust to complain of me , when I have always treat him with love and respect . ''
`` Fear nothing , Princess , '' say the Captain of the Guard .
`` I would far rather die myself than hurt you ; but even if I be kill you will not be safe : we must find some way of make the King believe that you be dead . ''
`` What can we do ? ''
say Miranda ; `` unless you take him my heart and my tongue he will never believe you . ''
The Princess and the Captain of the Guard be talk so earnestly that they do not think of Patypata , but she have overhear all they say , and now come and throw herself at Miranda 's foot .
`` Madam , '' she say , `` I offer you my life ; let me be kill , I shall be only too happy to die for such a kind mistress . ''
`` Why , Patypata , '' cry the Princess , kiss her , `` that would never do ; your life be as precious to me a my own , especially after such a proof of your affection a you have just give me . ''
`` You be right , Princess , '' say Grabugeon , come forward , `` to love such a faithful slave a Patypata ; she be of more use to you than I be , I offer you my tongue and my heart most willingly , especially a I wish to make a great name for myself in Goblin Land . ''
`` No , no , my little Grabugeon , '' reply Miranda , `` I can not bear the thought of take your life . ''
`` Such a good little dog a I be , '' cry Tintin , `` could not think of let either of you die for his mistress .
If anyone be to die for her it must be me . ''
And then begin a great dispute between Patypata , Grabugeon , and Tintin , and they come to high word , until at last Grabugeon , who be quick than the others , run up to the very top of the near tree , and let herself fall , head first , to the ground , and there she lay -- quite dead !
The Princess be very sorry , but a Grabugeon be really dead , she allow the Captain of the Guard to take her tongue ; but , ala !
it be such a little one -- not big than the Princess 's thumb -- that they decide sorrowfully that it be of no use at all : the King would not have be take in by it for a moment !
`` Alas !
my little monkey , '' cry the Princess , `` I have lose you , and yet I be no good off than I be before . ''
`` The honor of save your life be to be mine , '' interrupt Patypata , and , before they could prevent her , she have pick up a knife and cut her head off in an instant .
But when the Captain of the Guard would have take her tongue it turn out to be quite black , so that would not have deceive the King either .
`` Am I not unlucky ? ''
cry the poor Princess ; `` I lose everything I love , and be none the good for it . ''
`` If you have accept my offer , '' say Tintin , `` you would only have have me to regret , and I should have have all your gratitude . ''
Miranda kiss her little dog , cry so bitterly , that at last she could bear it no longer , and turn away into the forest .
When she look back the Captain of the Guard be go , and she be alone , except for Patypata , Grabugeon , and Tintin , who lay upon the ground .
She could not leave the place until she have bury them in a pretty little mossy grave at the foot of a tree , and she write their name upon the bark of the tree , and how they have all die to save her life .
And then she begin to think where she could go for safety -- for this forest be so close to her father 's castle that she might be see and recognize by the first passer-by , and , besides that , it be full of lion and wolf , who would have snap up a princess just as soon a a stray chicken .
So she begin to walk as fast a she could , but the forest be so large and the sun be so hot that she nearly die of heat and terror and fatigue ; look which way she would there seem to be no end to the forest , and she be so frightened that she fancy every minute that she hear the King running after her to kill her .
You may imagine how miserable she be , and how she cry a she go on , not know which path to follow , and with the thorny bush scratch her dreadfully and tear her pretty frock to piece .
At last she hear the bleating of a sheep , and say to herself : `` No doubt there be shepherd here with their flock ; they will show me the way to some village where I can live disguise a a peasant girl .
Alas !
it be not always king and prince who be the happy people in the world .
Who could have believe that I should ever be oblige to run away and hide because the King , for no reason at all , wish to kill me ? ''
So say she advance toward the place where she hear the bleating , but what be her surprise when , in a lovely little glade quite surround by tree , she saw a large sheep ; it wool be as white a snow , and it horn shone like gold ; it have a garland of flower round it neck , and string of great pearl about it leg , and a collar of diamond ; it lay upon a bank of orange-flowers , under a canopy of cloth of gold which protect it from the heat of the sun .
Nearly a hundred other sheep be scatter about , not eat the grass , but some drinking coffee , lemonade , or sherbet , others eat ice , strawberry and cream , or sweetmeat , while others , again , be play game .
Many of them wear golden collar with jewel , flower , and ribbon .
Miranda stop short in amazement at this unexpected sight , and be look in all direction for the shepherd of this surprising flock , when the beautiful sheep come bound toward her .
`` Approach , lovely Princess , '' he cry ; `` have no fear of such gentle and peaceable animal a we be . ''
`` What a marvel ! ''
cry the Princess , start back a little .
`` Here be a sheep that can talk . ''
`` Your monkey and your dog could talk , madam , '' say he ; `` be you more astonish at u than at them ? ''
`` A fairy give them the power to speak , '' reply Miranda .
`` So I be use to them . ''
`` Perhaps the same thing have happen to u , '' he say , smile sheepishly .
`` But , Princess , what can have lead you here ? ''
`` A thousand misfortune , Sir Sheep , '' she answer .
`` I be the unhappy princess in the world , and I be seek a shelter against my father 's anger . ''
`` Come with me , madam , '' say the Sheep ; `` I offer you a hiding-place which you only will know of , and where you will be mistress of everything you see . ''
`` I really can not follow you , '' say Miranda , `` for I be too tired to walk another step . ''
The Sheep with the golden horn order that his chariot should be fetch , and a moment after appear six goat , harness to a pumpkin , which be so big that two people could quite well sit in it , and be all line with cushion of velvet and down .
The Princess step into it , much amuse at such a new kind of carriage , the King of the Sheep take his place beside her , and the goat run away with them at full speed , and only stop when they reach a cavern , the entrance to which be block by a great stone .
This the King touch with his foot , and immediately it fell down , and he invite the Princess to enter without fear .
Now , if she have not be so alarmed by everything that have happen , nothing could have induce her to go into this frightful cave , but she be so afraid of what might be behind her that she would have throw herself even down a well at this moment .
So , without hesitation , she follow the Sheep , who go before her , down , down , down , until she think they must come out at the other side of the world -- indeed , she be not sure that he be n't lead her into Fairyland .
At last she saw before her a great plain , quite cover with all sort of flower , the scent of which seem to her nicer than anything she have ever smell before ; a broad river of orange-flower water flow round it and fountain of wine of every kind ran in all direction and make the pretty little cascade and brook .
The plain be cover with the strangest tree , there be whole avenue where partridge , ready roast , hung from every branch , or , if you prefer pheasant , quail , turkey , or rabbit , you have only to turn to the right hand or to the left and you be sure to find them .
In place the air be darken by shower of lobster-patties , white pudding , sausage , tart , and all sort of sweetmeat , or with piece of gold and silver , diamond and pearl .
This unusual kind of rain , and the pleasantness of the whole place , would , no doubt , have attract number of people to it , if the King of the Sheep have be of a more sociable disposition , but from all account it be evident that he be as grave a a judge .
As it be quite the nice time of the year when Miranda arrive in this delightful land the only palace she saw be a long row of orange tree , jasmine , honeysuckle , and musk-roses , and their interlacing branch make the pretty room possible , which be hung with gold and silver gauze , and have great mirror and candlestick , and most beautiful picture .
The Wonderful Sheep beg that the Princess would consider herself queen over all that she saw , and assure her that , though for some year he have be very sad and in great trouble , she have it in her power to make him forget all his grief .
`` You be so kind and generous , noble Sheep , '' say the Princess , `` that I can not thank you enough , but I must confess that all I see here seem to me so extraordinary that I do n't know what to think of it . ''
As she speak a band of lovely fairy come up and offer her amber basket full of fruit , but when she hold out her hand to them they glide away , and she could feel nothing when she try to touch them .
`` Oh ! ''
she cry , `` what can they be ?
Whom be I with ? ''
and she begin to cry .
At this instant the King of the Sheep come back to her , and be so distracted to find her in tear that he could have tear his wool .
`` What be the matter , lovely Princess ? ''
he cry .
`` Has anyone fail to treat you with due respect ? ''
`` Oh !
no , '' say Miranda ; `` only I be not use to live with sprite and with sheep that talk , and everything here frighten me .
It be very kind of you to bring me to this place , but I shall be even more grateful to you if you will take me up into the world again . ''
`` Do not be afraid , '' say the Wonderful Sheep ; `` I entreat you to have patience , and listen to the story of my misfortune .
I be once a king , and my kingdom be the most splendid in the world .
My subject love me , my neighbor envy and fear me .
I be respect by everyone , and it be say that no king ever deserve it more .
`` I be very fond of hunting , and one day , while chase a stag , I leave my attendant far behind ; suddenly I saw the animal leap into a pool of water , and I rashly urge my horse to follow it , but before we have go many step I felt an extraordinary heat , instead of the coolness of the water ; the pond dry up , a great gulf open before me , out of which flame of fire shot up , and I fell helplessly to the bottom of a precipice .
`` I give myself up for lose , but presently a voice say : ` Ungrateful Prince , even this fire be hardly enough to warm your cold heart ! ' ''
` Who complain of my coldness in this dismal place ? '
I cry . ''
` An unhappy be who love you hopelessly , ' reply the voice , and at the same moment the flame begin to flicker and cease to burn , and I saw a fairy , whom I have know as long a I could remember , and whose ugliness have always horrify me .
She be lean upon the arm of a most beautiful young girl , who wear chain of gold on her wrist and be evidently her slave . ''
` Why , Ragotte , ' I say , for that be the fairy 's name , ` what be the meaning of all this ?
Is it by your order that I be here ? ' ''
` And whose fault be it , ' she answer , ` that you have never understand me until now ?
Must a powerful fairy like myself condescend to explain her doings to you who be no good than an ant by comparison , though you think yourself a great king ? ' ''
` Call me what you like , ' I say impatiently ; ` but what be it that you want -- my crown , or my city , or my treasure ? ' ''
` Treasures ! '
say the fairy , disdainfully .
` If I choose I could make any one of my scullion rich and more powerful than you .
I do not want your treasure , but , ' she add softly , ` if you will give me your heart -- if you will marry me -- I will add twenty kingdom to the one you have already ; you shall have a hundred castle full of gold and five hundred full of silver , and , in short , anything you like to ask me for . ' ''
` Madam Ragotte , ' say I , ` when one be at the bottom of a pit where one have fully expect to be roast alive , it be impossible to think of ask such a charm person a you be to marry one !
I beg that you will set me at liberty , and then I shall hope to answer you fittingly . ' ''
` Ah ! '
say she , ` if you really love me you would not care where you be -- a cave , a wood , a fox-hole , a desert , would please you equally well .
Do not think that you can deceive me ; you fancy you be go to escape , but I assure you that you be go to stay here and the first thing I shall give you to do will be to keep my sheep -- they be very good company and speak quite as well a you do .
`` As she speak she advance , and lead me to this plain where we now stand , and show me her flock , but I pay little attention to it or to her .
`` To tell the truth , I be so lose in admiration of her beautiful slave that I forget everything else , and the cruel Ragotte , perceive this , turn upon her so furious and terrible a look that she fell lifeless to the ground .
`` At this dreadful sight I draw my sword and rush at Ragotte , and should certainly have cut off her head have she not by her magic art chain me to the spot on which I stand ; all my effort to move be useless , and at last , when I throw myself down on the ground in despair , she say to me , with a scornful smile : '' ' I intend to make you feel my power .
It seem that you be a lion at present , I mean you to be a sheep . '
`` So saying , she touch me with her wand , and I become what you see .
I do not lose the power of speech , or of feel the misery of my present state . ''
` For five year , ' she say , ` you shall be a sheep , and lord of this pleasant land , while I , no longer able to see your face , which I love so much , shall be well able to hate you a you deserve to be hat . '
`` She disappear a she finish speaking , and if I have not be too unhappy to care about anything I should have be glad that she be go .
`` The talk sheep receive me a their king , and tell me that they , too , be unfortunate prince who have , in different way , offend the revengeful fairy , and have be add to her flock for a certain number of year ; some more , some le .
From time to time , indeed , one regain his own proper form and go back again to his place in the upper world ; but the other being whom you saw be the rival or the enemy of Ragotte , whom she have imprison for a hundred year or so ; though even they will go back at last .
The young slave of whom I tell you about be one of these ; I have see her often , and it have be a great pleasure to me .
She never speak to me , and if I be nearer to her I know I should find her only a shadow , which would be very annoy .
However , I notice that one of my companion in misfortune be also very attentive to this little sprite , and I find out that he have be her lover , whom the cruel Ragotte have take away from her long before ; since then I have care for , and thought of , nothing but how I might regain my freedom .
I have often be in the forest ; that be where I have see you , lovely Princess , sometimes drive your chariot , which you do with all the grace and skill in the world ; sometimes rid to the chase on so spirit a horse that it seem a if no one but yourself could have manage it , and sometimes run race on the plain with the Princesses of your Court -- run so lightly that it be you always who win the prize .
Oh !
Princess , I have love you so long , and yet how dare I tell you of my love !
what hope can there be for an unhappy sheep like myself ? ''
Miranda be so surprised and confuse by all that she have heard that she hardly know what answer to give to the King of the Sheep , but she manage to make some kind of little speech , which certainly do not forbid him to hope , and say that she should not be afraid of the shadow now she know that they would some day come to life again .
`` Alas ! ''
she continue , `` if my poor Patypata , my dear Grabugeon , and pretty little Tintin , who all die for my sake , be equally well off , I should have nothing leave to wish for here ! ''
Prisoner though he be , the King of the Sheep have still some power and privilege .
`` Go , '' say he to his Master of the Horse , `` go and seek the shadow of the little black girl , the monkey , and the dog : they will amuse our Princess . ''
And an instant afterward Miranda saw them come toward her , and their presence give her the great pleasure , though they do not come near enough for her to touch them .
The King of the Sheep be so kind and amusing , and love Miranda so dearly , that at last she begin to love him too .
Such a handsome sheep , who be so polite and considerate , could hardly fail to please , especially if one know that he be really a king , and that his strange imprisonment would soon come to an end .
So the Princess 's day pass very gaily while she wait for the happy time to come .
The King of the Sheep , with the help of all the flock , get up ball , concert , and hunt party , and even the shadow join in all the fun , and come , make believe to be their own real self .
One evening , when the courier arrive -LRB- for the King send most carefully for news -- and they always bring the very best kind -RRB- , it be announce that the sister of the Princess Miranda be go to be marry to a great Prince , and that nothing could be more splendid than all the preparation for the wedding .
`` Ah ! ''
cry the young Princess , `` how unlucky I be to miss the sight of so many pretty thing !
Here be I imprison under the earth , with no company but sheep and shadow , while my sister be to be adorn like a queen and surround by all who love and admire her , and everyone but myself can go to wish her joy ! ''
`` Why do you complain , Princess ? ''
say the King of the Sheep .
`` Did I say that you be not to go to the wedding ?
Set out as soon a you please ; only promise me that you will come back , for I love you too much to be able to live without you . ''
Miranda be very grateful to him , and promise faithfully that nothing in the world should keep her from come back .
The King cause an escort suitable to her rank to be get ready for her , and she dress herself splendidly , not forget anything that could make her more beautiful .
Her chariot be of mother-of-pearl , draw by six dun-colored griffin just bring from the other side of the world , and she be attend by a number of guard in splendid uniform , who be all at least eight foot high and have come from far and near to ride in the Princess 's train .
Miranda reach her father 's palace just a the wedding ceremony begin , and everyone , as soon a she come in , be strike with surprise at her beauty and the splendor of her jewel .
She hear exclamation of admiration on all side ; and the King her father look at her so attentively that she be afraid he must recognize her ; but he be so sure that she be dead that the idea never occur to him .
However , the fear of not get away make her leave before the marriage be over .
She go out hastily , leave behind her a little coral casket set with emerald .
On it be write in diamond letter : `` Jewels for the Bride , '' and when they open it , which they do as soon a it be find , there seem to be no end to the pretty thing it contain .
The King , who have hop to join the unknown Princess and find out who she be , be dreadfully disappointed when she disappear so suddenly , and give order that if she ever come again the door be to be shut that she might not get away so easily .
Short a Miranda 's absence have be , it have seem like a hundred year to the King of the Sheep .
He be wait for her by a fountain in the thick part of the forest , and the ground be strew with splendid present which he have prepare for her to show his joy and gratitude at her come back .
As soon a she be in sight he rush to meet her , leap and bound like a real sheep .
He caress her tenderly , throw himself at her foot and kiss her hand , and tell her how uneasy he have be in her absence , and how impatient for her return , with an eloquence which charm her .
After some time come the news that the King 's second daughter be go to be marry .
When Miranda hear it she beg the King of the Sheep to allow her to go and see the wedding a before .
This request make him feel very sad , a if some misfortune must surely come of it , but his love for the Princess be strong than anything else he do not like to refuse her .
`` You wish to leave me , Princess , '' say he ; `` it be my unhappy fate -- you be not to blame .
I consent to your go , but , believe me , I can give you no strong proof of my love than by so do . ''
The Princess assure him that she would only stay a very short time , a she have do before , and beg him not to be uneasy , a she would be quite as much grieve if anything detain her a he could possibly be .
So , with the same escort , she set out , and reach the palace a the marriage ceremony begin .
Everybody be delight to see her ; she be so pretty that they think she must be some fairy princess , and the Princes who be there could not take their eye off her .
The King be more glad than anyone else that she have come again , and give order that the door should all be shut and bolt that very minute .
When the wedding be all but over the Princess get up quickly , hop to slip away unnoticed among the crowd , but , to her great dismay , she find every door fasten .
She felt more at ease when the King come up to her , and with the great respect beg her not to run away so soon , but at least to honor him by stay for the splendid feast which be prepare for the Princes and Princesses .
He lead her into a magnificent hall , where all the Court be assemble , and himself take up the golden bowl full of water , he offer it to her that she might dip her pretty finger into it .
At this the Princess could no longer contain herself ; throw herself at the King 's foot , she cry out : `` My dream have come true after all -- you have offer me water to wash my hand on my sister 's wedding day , and it have not vex you to do it . ''
The King recognize her at once -- indeed , he have already think several time how much like his poor little Miranda she be .
`` Oh !
my dear daughter , '' he cry , kiss her , `` can you ever forget my cruelty ?
I order you to be put to death because I think your dream portend the loss of my crown .
And so it do , '' he add , `` for now your sister be both married and have kingdom of their own -- and mine shall be for you . ''
So say he put his crown on the Princess 's head and cry : `` Long live Queen Miranda ! ''
All the Court cry : `` Long live Queen Miranda ! ''
after him , and the young Queen 's two sister come run up , and throw their arm round her neck , and kiss her a thousand time , and then there be such a laughing and cry , talk and kissing , all at once , and Miranda thank her father , and begin to ask after everyone -- particularly the Captain of the Guard , to whom she owe so much ; but , to her great sorrow , she hear that he be dead .
Presently they sit down to the banquet , and the King ask Miranda to tell them all that have happen to her since the terrible morning when he have send the Captain of the Guard to fetch her .
This she do with so much spirit that all the guest listen with breathless interest .
But while she be thus enjoy herself with the King and her sister , the King of the Sheep be wait impatiently for the time of her return , and when it come and go , and no Princess appear , his anxiety become so great that he could bear it no longer .
`` She be not come back any more , '' he cry .
`` My miserable sheep 's face displease her , and without Miranda what be leave to me , wretched creature that I be !
Oh !
cruel Ragotte ; my punishment be complete . ''
For a long time he bewail his sad fate like this , and then , see that it be grow dark , and that still there be no sign of the Princess , he set out as fast a he could in the direction of the town .
When he reach the palace he ask for Miranda , but by this time everyone have hear the story of her adventure , and do not want her to go back again to the King of the Sheep , so they refuse sternly to let him see her .
In vain he beg and pray them to let him in ; though his entreaty might have melt heart of stone they do not move the guard of the palace , and at last , quite broken-hearted , he fell dead at their foot .
In the meantime the King , who have not the least idea of the sad thing that be happen outside the gate of his palace , propose to Miranda that she should be drive in her chariot all round the town , which be to be illuminate with thousand and thousand of torch , place in window and balcony , and in all the grand square .
But what a sight meet her eye at the very entrance of the palace !
There lay her dear , kind sheep , silent and motionless , upon the pavement !
She throw herself out of the chariot and run to him , cry bitterly , for she realize that her broken promise have cost him his life , and for a long , long time she be so unhappy that they think she would have die too .
So you see that even a princess be not always happy -- especially if she forget to keep her word ; and the great misfortune often happen to people just a they think they have obtain their heart 's desire !
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Madame d'Aulnoy .
LITTLE THUMB There be , once upon a time , a man and his wife fagot-makers by trade , who have several child , all boy .
The eldest be but ten year old , and the young only seven .
They be very poor , and their seven child incommode them greatly , because not one of them be able to earn his bread .
That which give them yet more uneasiness be that the young be of a very puny constitution , and scarce ever speak a word , which make them take that for stupidity which be a sign of good sense .
He be very little , and when bear no big than one 's thumb , which make him be call Little Thumb .
The poor child bore the blame of whatsoever be do amiss in the house , and , guilty or not , be always in the wrong ; he be , notwithstanding , more cunning and have a far great share of wisdom than all his brother put together ; and , if he spake little , he hear and think the more .
There happen now to come a very bad year , and the famine be so great that these poor people resolve to rid themselves of their child .
One evening , when they be all in bed and the fagot-maker be sit with his wife at the fire , he say to her , with his heart ready to burst with grief : `` Thou seest plainly that we be not able to keep our child , and I can not see them starve to death before my face ; I be resolve to lose them in the wood to-morrow , which may very easily be do ; for , while they be busy in tie up fagot , we may run away , and leave them , without their take any notice . ''
`` Ah ! ''
cry his wife ; `` and canst thou thyself have the heart to take thy child out along with thee on purpose to lose them ? ''
In vain do her husband represent to her their extreme poverty : she would not consent to it ; she be indeed poor , but she be their mother .
However , have consider what a grief it would be to her to see them perish with hunger , she at last consented , and go to bed all in tear .
Little Thumb heard every word that have be speak ; for observe , a he lay in his bed , that they be talk very busily , he get up softly , and hide himself under his father 's stool , that he might hear what they say without be see .
He go to bed again , but do not sleep a wink all the rest of the night , think on what he have to do .
He get up early in the morning , and go to the river-side , where he fill his pocket full of small white pebble , and then return home .
They all go abroad , but Little Thumb never tell his brother one syllable of what he know .
They go into a very thick forest , where they could not see one another at ten pace distance .
The fagot-maker begin to cut wood , and the child to gather up the stick to make fagot .
Their father and mother , see them busy at their work , get away from them insensibly , and run away from them all at once , along a by-way through the winding bush .
When the child saw they be leave alone , they begin to cry as loud a they could .
Little Thumb let them cry on , know very well how to get home again , for , a he come , he take care to drop all along the way the little white pebble he have in his pocket .
Then he say to them : `` Be not afraid , brother ; father and mother have leave u here , but I will lead you home again , only follow me . ''
They do so , and he bring them home by the very same way they come into the forest .
They dare not go in , but sit themselves down at the door , listen to what their father and mother be say .
The very moment the fagot-maker and his wife reach home the lord of the manor send them ten crown , which he have owe them a long while , and which they never expect .
This give them new life , for the poor people be almost famish .
The fagot-maker send his wife immediately to the butcher 's .
As it be a long while since they have eat a bit , she buy thrice as much meat a would sup two people .
When they have eat , the woman say : `` Alas !
where be now our poor child ?
they would make a good feast of what we have leave here ; but it be you , William , who have a mind to lose them : I tell you we should repent of it .
What be they now do in the forest ?
Alas !
dear God , the wolf have perhaps already eat them up ; thou art very inhuman thus to have lose thy child . ''
The fagot-maker grow at last quite out of patience , for she repeat it above twenty time , that they should repent of it , and that she be in the right of it for so say .
He threaten to beat her if she do not hold her tongue .
It be not that the fagot-maker be not , perhaps , more vexed than his wife , but that she tease him , and that he be of the humor of a great many others , who love wife to speak well , but think those very importunate who be continually do so .
She be half-drowned in tear , cry out : `` Alas !
where be now my child , my poor child ? ''
She speak this so very loud that the child , who be at the gate , begin to cry out all together : `` Here we be !
Here we be ! ''
She run immediately to open the door , and say , hug them : `` I be glad to see you , my dear child ; you be very hungry and weary ; and my poor Peter , thou art horribly bemire ; come in and let me clean thee . ''
Now , you must know that Peter be her eldest son , whom she love above all the rest , because he be somewhat carroty , a she herself be .
They sit down to supper , and eat with such a good appetite a pleased both father and mother , whom they acquaint how frightened they be in the forest , speak almost always all together .
The good folk be extremely glad to see their child once more at home , and this joy continue while the ten crown last ; but , when the money be all go , they fell again into their former uneasiness , and resolve to lose them again ; and , that they might be the surer of do it , to carry them to a much great distance than before .
They could not talk of this so secretly but they be overhear by Little Thumb , who make account to get out of this difficulty as well a the former ; but , though he get up very early in the morning to go and pick up some little pebble , he be disappointed , for he find the house-door double-locked , and be at a stand what to do .
When their father have give each of them a piece of bread for their breakfast , Little Thumb fancy he might make use of this instead of the pebble by throw it in little bit all along the way they should pass ; and so he put the bread in his pocket .
Their father and mother bring them into the thickest and most obscure part of the forest , when , steal away into a by-path , they there leave them .
Little Thumb be not very uneasy at it , for he think he could easily find the way again by mean of his bread , which he have scatter all along a he come ; but he be very much surprise when he could not find so much a one crumb ; the bird have come and have eat it up , every bit .
They be now in great affliction , for the farther they go the more they be out of their way , and be more and more bewilder in the forest .
Night now come on , and there arise a terribly high wind , which make them dreadfully afraid .
They fancy they hear on every side of them the howling of wolf come to eat them up .
They scarce dare to speak or turn their head .
After this , it rain very hard , which wet them to the skin ; their foot slip at every step they take , and they fell into the mire , whence they get up in a very dirty pickle ; their hand be quite benumb .
Little Thumb climb up to the top of a tree , to see if he could discover anything ; and have turn his head about on every side , he saw at last a glimmering light , like that of a candle , but a long way from the forest .
He come down , and , when upon the ground , he could see it no more , which grieve him sadly .
However , have walk for some time with his brother toward that side on which he have see the light , he perceive it again a he come out of the wood .
They come at last to the house where this candle be , not without an abundance of fear : for very often they lose sight of it , which happen every time they come into a bottom .
They knock at the door , and a good woman come and open it ; she ask them what they would have .
Little Thumb tell her they be poor child who have be lose in the forest , and desire to lodge there for God 's sake .
The woman , see them so very pretty , begin to weep , and say to them : `` Alas !
poor baby ; whither be ye come ?
Do ye know that this house belong to a cruel ogre who eat up little child ? ''
`` Ah !
dear madam , '' answer Little Thumb -LRB- who tremble every joint of him , as well a his brother -RRB- , `` what shall we do ?
To be sure the wolf of the forest will devour u to-night if you refuse u to lie here ; and so we would rather the gentleman should eat u ; and perhaps he may take pity upon u , especially if you please to beg it of him . ''
The Ogre 's wife , who believe she could conceal them from her husband till morning , let them come in , and bring them to warm themselves at a very good fire ; for there be a whole sheep upon the spit , roast for the Ogre 's supper .
As they begin to be a little warm they hear three or four great rap at the door ; this be the Ogre , who have come home .
Upon this she hide them under the bed and go to open the door .
The Ogre presently ask if supper be ready and the wine drawn , and then sit himself down to table .
The sheep be a yet all raw and bloody ; but he like it the good for that .
He sniff about to the right and leave , say : `` I smell fresh meat . ''
`` What you smell so , '' say his wife , `` must be the calf which I have just now kill and flay . ''
`` I smell fresh meat , I tell thee once more , '' reply the Ogre , look crossly at his wife ; `` and there be something here which I do not understand . ''
As he speak these word he get up from the table and go directly to the bed .
`` Ah , ah ! ''
say he ; `` I see then how thou wouldst cheat me , thou cursed woman ; I know not why I do not eat thee up too , but it be well for thee that thou art a tough old carrion .
Here be good game , which come very quickly to entertain three ogre of my acquaintance who be to pay me a visit in a day or two . ''
With that he drag them out from under the bed one by one .
The poor child fell upon their knee , and beg his pardon ; but they have to do with one of the most cruel ogre in the world , who , far from have any pity on them , have already devour them with his eye , and tell his wife they would be delicate eating when toss up with good savory sauce .
He then take a great knife , and , come up to these poor child , whet it upon a great whet-stone which he hold in his left hand .
He have already take hold of one of them when his wife say to him : `` Why need you do it now ?
Is it not time enough to-morrow ? ''
`` Hold your prating , '' say the Ogre ; `` they will eat the tenderer .
`` But you have so much meat already , '' reply his wife , `` you have no occasion ; here be a calf , two sheep , and half a hog . ''
`` That be true , '' say the Ogre ; `` give them their belly full that they may not fall away , and put them to bed . ''
The good woman be overjoy at this , and give them a good supper ; but they be so much afraid they could not eat a bit .
As for the Ogre , he sit down again to drink , be highly pleased that he have get wherewithal to treat his friend .
He drink a dozen glass more than ordinary , which get up into his head and oblige him to go to bed .
The Ogre have seven daughter , all little child , and these young ogress have all of them very fine complexion , because they use to eat fresh meat like their father ; but they have little gray eye , quite round , hooked nose , and very long sharp teeth , stand at a good distance from each other .
They be not a yet over and above mischievous , but they promise very fair for it , for they have already bite little child , that they might suck their blood .
They have be put to bed early , with every one a crown of gold upon her head .
There be in the same chamber a bed of the like bigness , and it be into this bed the Ogre 's wife put the seven little boy , after which she go to bed to her husband .
Little Thumb , who have observe that the Ogre 's daughter have crown of gold upon their head , and be afraid l the Ogre should repent his not kill them , get up about midnight , and , take his brother ' bonnet and his own , go very softly and put them upon the head of the seven little ogress , after have take off their crown of gold , which he put upon his own head and his brother ' , that the Ogre might take them for his daughter , and his daughter for the little boys whom he want to kill .
All this succeed accord to his desire ; for , the Ogre wake about midnight , and sorry that he defer to do that till morning which he might have do over-night , throw himself hastily out of bed , and , take his great knife , `` Let u see , '' say he , `` how our little rogue do , and not make two job of the matter . ''
He then go up , grope all the way , into his daughter ' chamber , and , come to the bed where the little boys lay , and who be every soul of them fast asleep , except Little Thumb , who be terribly afraid when he find the Ogre fumble about his head , a he have do about his brother ' , the Ogre , feel the golden crown , say : `` I should have make a fine piece of work of it , truly ; I find I drink too much last night . ''
Then he go to the bed where the girl lay ; and , have find the boy ' little bonnet , `` Ah ! ''
say he , `` my merry lad , be you there ?
Let u work a we ought . ''
And say these word , without more ado , he cut the throat of all his seven daughter .
Well pleased with what he have do , he go to bed again to his wife .
So soon a Little Thumb hear the Ogre snore , he wake his brother , and bid them all put on their clothes presently and follow him .
They steal down softly into the garden , and get over the wall .
They keep run about all night , and tremble all the while , without know which way they go .
The Ogre , when he awake , say to his wife : `` Go upstairs and dress those young rascal who come here last night . ''
The wife be very much surprise at this goodness of her husband , not dream after what manner she should dress them ; but , think that he have order her to go and put on their clothes , she go up , and be strangely astonish when she perceive her seven daughter kill , and welter in their blood .
She faint away , for this be the first expedient almost all woman find in such case .
The Ogre , fear his wife would be too long in do what he have order , go up himself to help her .
He be no less amaze than his wife at this frightful spectacle .
`` Ah !
what have I do ? ''
cry he .
`` The wretch shall pay for it , and that instantly . ''
He throw a pitcher of water upon his wife 's face , and , have bring her to herself , say : `` Give me quickly my boot of seven league , that I may go and catch them . ''
He go out , and , have run over a vast deal of ground , both on this side and that , he come at last into the very road where the poor child be , and not above a hundred pace from their father 's house .
They espy the Ogre , who go at one step from mountain to mountain , and over river as easily a the narrow kennel .
Little Thumb , see a hollow rock near the place where they be , make his brother hide themselves in it , and crowd into it himself , mind always what would become of the Ogre .
The Ogre , who find himself much tire with his long and fruitless journey -LRB- for these boot of seven league greatly fatigue the wearer -RRB- , have a great mind to rest himself , and , by chance , go to sit down upon the rock where the little boy have hide themselves .
As it be impossible he could be more weary than he be , he fell asleep , and , after repose himself some time , begin to snore so frightfully that the poor child be no less afraid of him than when he hold up his great knife and be go to cut their throat .
Little Thumb be not so much frighten a his brother , and tell them that they should run away immediately toward home while the Ogre be asleep so soundly , and that they should not be in any pain about him .
They take his advice , and get home presently .
Little Thumb come up to the Ogre , pull off his boot gently and put them on his own leg .
The boot be very long and large , but , a they be fairy , they have the gift of become big and little , accord to the leg of those who wear them ; so that they fit his foot and leg as well a if they have be make on purpose for him .
He go immediately to the Ogre 's house , where he saw his wife cry bitterly for the loss of the Ogre 's murdered daughter .
`` Your husband , '' say Little Thumb , `` be in very great danger , be take by a gang of thief , who have swear to kill him if he do not give them all his gold and silver .
The very moment they hold their dagger at his throat he perceive me , and desire me to come and tell you the condition he be in , and that you should give me whatsoever he have of value , without retain any one thing ; for otherwise they will kill him without mercy ; and , a his case be very pressing , he desire me to make use -LRB- you see I have them on -RRB- of his boot , that I might make the more haste and to show you that I do not impose upon you . ''
The good woman , be sadly frighten , give him all she have : for this Ogre be a very good husband , though he use to eat up little child .
Little Thumb , have thus get all the Ogre 's money , come home to his father 's house , where he be receive with abundance of joy .
There be many people who do not agree in this circumstance , and pretend that Little Thumb never rob the Ogre at all , and that he only think he might very justly , and with a safe conscience , take off his boot of seven league , because he make no other use of them but to run after little child .
These folk affirm that they be very well assure of this , and the more a have drunk and eat often at the fagot-maker 's house .
They aver that when Little Thumb have take off the Ogre 's boot he go to Court , where he be inform that they be very much in pain about a certain army , which be two hundred league off , and the success of a battle .
He go , say they , to the King , and tell him that , if he desire it , he would bring him news from the army before night .
The King promise him a great sum of money upon that condition .
Little Thumb be as good a his word , and return that very same night with the news ; and , this first expedition cause him to be know , he get whatever he please , for the King pay him very well for carry his order to the army .
After have for some time carry on the business of a messenger , and gain thereby great wealth , he go home to his father , where it be impossible to express the joy they be all in at his return .
He make the whole family very easy , buy place for his father and brother , and , by that mean , settle them very handsomely in the world , and , in the meantime , make his court to perfection .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Charles Perrault .
THE FORTY THIEVES In a town in Persia there dwell two brother , one name Cassim , the other Ali Baba .
Cassim be marry to a rich wife and live in plenty , while Ali Baba have to maintain his wife and child by cut wood in a neighboring forest and sell it in the town .
One day , when Ali Baba be in the forest , he saw a troop of men on horseback , come toward him in a cloud of dust .
He be afraid they be robber , and climb into a tree for safety .
When they come up to him and dismount , he count forty of them .
They unbridle their horse and tie them to tree .
The fine man among them , whom Ali Baba take to be their captain , go a little way among some bush , and say : `` Open , Sesame ! ''
-LRB- 1 -RRB- so plainly that Ali Baba hear him .
A door open in the rock , and have make the troop go in , he follow them , and the door shut again of itself .
They stay some time inside , and Ali Baba , fear they might come out and catch him , be force to sit patiently in the tree .
At last the door open again , and the Forty Thieves come out .
As the Captain go in last he come out first , and make them all pas by him ; he then close the door , say : `` Shut , Sesame ! ''
Every man bridle his horse and mount , the Captain put himself at their head , and they return a they come .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- Sesame be a kind of grain .
Then Ali Baba climb down and go to the door conceal among the bush , and say : `` Open , Sesame ! ''
and it fly open .
Ali Baba , who expect a dull , dismal place , be greatly surprised to find it large and well light , hollow by the hand of man in the form of a vault , which receive the light from an opening in the ceiling .
He saw rich bale of merchandise -- silk , stuff-brocades , all pile together , and gold and silver in heap , and money in leather purse .
He go in and the door shut behind him .
He do not look at the silver , but bring out a many bag of gold a he think his ass , which be browse outside , could carry , load them with the bag , and hide it all with fagot .
Using the word : `` Shut , Sesame ! ''
he close the door and go home .
Then he drive his ass into the yard , shut the gate , carry the money-bags to his wife , and empty them out before her .
He bid her keep the secret , and he would go and bury the gold .
`` Let me first measure it , '' say his wife .
`` I will go borrow a measure of someone , while you dig the hole . ''
So she run to the wife of Cassim and borrow a measure .
Knowing Ali Baba 's poverty , the sister be curious to find out what sort of grain his wife wish to measure , and artfully put some suet at the bottom of the measure .
Ali Baba 's wife go home and set the measure on the heap of gold , and fill it and empty it often , to her great content .
She then carry it back to her sister , without notice that a piece of gold be stick to it , which Cassim 's wife perceive directly her back be turn .
She grow very curious , and say to Cassim when he come home : `` Cassim , your brother be rich than you .
He do not count his money , he measure it . ''
He beg her to explain this riddle , which she do by show him the piece of money and tell him where she find it .
Then Cassim grow so envious that he could not sleep , and go to his brother in the morning before sunrise .
`` Ali Baba , '' he say , show him the gold piece , `` you pretend to be poor and yet you measure gold . ''
By this Ali Baba perceive that through his wife 's folly Cassim and his wife know their secret , so he confess all and offer Cassim a share .
`` That I expect , '' say Cassim ; `` but I must know where to find the treasure , otherwise I will discover all , and you will lose all . ''
Ali Baba , more out of kindness than fear , tell him of the cave , and the very word to use .
Cassim leave Ali Baba , mean to be beforehand with him and get the treasure for himself .
He rise early next morning , and set out with ten mule load with great chest .
He soon find the place , and the door in the rock .
He say : `` Open , Sesame ! ''
and the door open and shut behind him .
He could have feast his eye all day on the treasure , but he now hasten to gather together a much of it a possible ; but when he be ready to go he could not remember what to say for thinking of his great rich .
Instead of `` Sesame , '' he say : `` Open , Barley ! ''
and the door remain fast .
He name several different sort of grain , all but the right one , and the door still stick fast .
He be so frighten at the danger he be in that he have a much forgotten the word a if he have never hear it .
About noon the robber return to their cave , and saw Cassim 's mule rove about with great chest on their back .
This give them the alarm ; they draw their sabre , and go to the door , which open on their Captain 's saying : `` Open , Sesame ! ''
Cassim , who have hear the trampling of their horse ' foot , resolve to sell his life dearly , so when the door open he leap out and throw the Captain down .
In vain , however , for the robber with their sabre soon kill him .
On enter the cave they saw all the bag lay ready , and could not imagine how anyone have get in without know their secret .
They cut Cassim 's body into four quarter , and nail them up inside the cave , in order to frighten anyone who should venture in , and go away in search of more treasure .
As night drew on Cassim 's wife grow very uneasy , and run to her brother-in-law , and tell him where her husband have go .
Ali Baba do his best to comfort her , and set out to the forest in search of Cassim .
The first thing he saw on enter the cave be his dead brother .
Full of horror , he put the body on one of his ass , and bag of gold on the other two , and , cover all with some fagot , return home .
He drive the two ass laden with gold into his own yard , and lead the other to Cassim 's house .
The door be open by the slave Morgiana , whom he know to be both brave and cunning .
Unloading the as , he say to her : `` This be the body of your master , who have be murder , but whom we must bury a though he have die in his bed .
I will speak with you again , but now tell your mistress I be come . ''
The wife of Cassim , on learn the fate of her husband , break out into cry and tear , but Ali Baba offer to take her to live with him and his wife if she would promise to keep his counsel and leave everything to Morgiana ; whereupon she agree , and dry her eye .
Morgiana , meanwhile , seek an apothecary and ask him for some lozenge .
`` My poor master , '' she say , `` can neither eat nor speak , and no one know what his distemper be . ''
She carry home the lozenge and return next day weeping , and ask for an essence only give to those just about to die .
Thus , in the evening , no one be surprise to hear the wretched shriek and cry of Cassim 's wife and Morgiana , tell everyone that Cassim be dead .
The day after Morgiana go to an old cobbler near the gate of the town who open his stall early , put a piece of gold in his hand , and bid him follow her with his needle and thread .
Having bind his eye with a handkerchief , she take him to the room where the body lay , pull off the bandage , and bid him sew the quarter together , after which she cover his eye again and lead him home .
Then they bury Cassim , and Morgiana his slave follow him to the grave , weep and tear her hair , while Cassim 's wife stay at home utter lamentable cry .
Next day she go to live with Ali Baba , who give Cassim 's shop to his eldest son .
The Forty Thieves , on their return to the cave , be much astonish to find Cassim 's body go and some of their money-bags .
`` We be certainly discover , '' say the Captain , `` and shall be undone if we can not find out who it be that know our secret .
Two men must have know it ; we have kill one , we must now find the other .
To this end one of you who be bold and artful must go into the city dress a a traveler , and discover whom we have kill , and whether men talk of the strange manner of his death .
If the messenger fail he must lose his life , lest we be betray . ''
One of the thief start up and offer to do this , and after the rest have highly commend him for his bravery he disguise himself , and happen to enter the town at daybreak , just by Baba Mustapha 's stall .
The thief bid him good-day , say : `` Honest man , how can you possibly see to stitch at your age ? ''
`` Old a I be , '' reply the cobbler , `` I have very good eye , and will you believe me when I tell you that I sew a dead body together in a place where I have less light than I have now . ''
The robber be overjoy at his good fortune , and , give him a piece of gold , desire to be show the house where he stitch up the dead body .
At first Mustapha refuse , say that he have be blindfold ; but when the robber give him another piece of gold he begin to think he might remember the turning if blindfold a before .
This mean succeed ; the robber partly lead him , and be partly guide by him , right in front of Cassim 's house , the door of which the robber mark with a piece of chalk .
Then , well pleased , he bid farewell to Baba Mustapha and return to the forest .
By and by Morgiana , go out , saw the mark the robber have make , quickly guess that some mischief be brewing , and fetch a piece of chalk mark two or three door on each side , without say anything to her master or mistress .
The thief , meantime , tell his comrade of his discovery .
The Captain thank him , and bid him show him the house he have mark .
But when they come to it they saw that five or six of the house be chalk in the same manner .
The guide be so confounded that he know not what answer to make , and when they return he be at once behead for have fail .
Another robber be dispatch , and , have win over Baba Mustapha , mark the house in red chalk ; but Morgiana be again too clever for them , the second messenger be put to death also .
The Captain now resolve to go himself , but , wise than the others , he do not mark the house , but look at it so closely that he could not fail to remember it .
He return , and order his men to go into the neighboring village and buy nineteen mule , and thirty-eight leather jar , all empty except one , which be full of oil .
The Captain put one of his men , fully arm , into each , rub the outside of the jar with oil from the full vessel .
Then the nineteen mule be load with thirty-seven robber in jar , and the jar of oil , and reach the town by dusk .
The Captain stop his mule in front of Ali Baba 's house , and say to Ali Baba , who be sit outside for coolness : `` I have bring some oil from a distance to sell at to-morrow 's market , but it be now so late that I know not where to pass the night , unless you will do me the favor to take me in . ''
Though Ali Baba have see the Captain of the robber in the forest , he do not recognize him in the disguise of an oil merchant .
He bid him welcome , open his gate for the mule to enter , and go to Morgiana to bid her prepare a bed and supper for his guest .
He bring the stranger into his hall , and after they have sup go again to speak to Morgiana in the kitchen , while the Captain go into the yard under pretense of see after his mule , but really to tell his men what to do .
Beginning at the first jar and end at the last , he say to each man : `` As soon a I throw some stone from the window of the chamber where I lie , cut the jar open with your knife and come out , and I will be with you in a trice . ''
He return to the house , and Morgiana lead him to his chamber .
She then tell Abdallah , her fellow-slave , to set on the pot to make some broth for her master , who have go to bed .
Meanwhile her lamp go out , and she have no more oil in the house .
`` Do not be uneasy , '' say Abdallah ; `` go into the yard and take some out of one of those jar . ''
Morgiana thank him for his advice , take the oil pot , and go into the yard .
When she come to the first jar the robber inside say softly : `` Is it time ? ''
Any other slave but Morgiana , on find a man in the jar instead of the oil she want , would have scream and make a noise ; but she , know the danger her master be in , bethink herself of a plan , and answer quietly : `` Not yet , but presently . ''
She go to all the jar , give the same answer , till she come to the jar of oil .
She now saw that her master , think to entertain an oil merchant , have let thirty-eight robber into his house .
She fill her oil pot , go back to the kitchen , and , have light her lamp , go again to the oil jar and fill a large kettle full of oil .
When it boil she go and pour enough oil into every jar to stifle and kill the robber inside .
When this brave deed be do she go back to the kitchen , put out the fire and the lamp , and wait to see what would happen .
In a quarter of an hour the Captain of the robber awake , get up , and open the window .
As all seem quiet , he throw down some little pebble which hit the jar .
He listen , and a none of his men seem to stir he grow uneasy , and go down into the yard .
On go to the first jar and say , `` Are you asleep ? ''
he smelt the hot boiled oil , and know at once that his plot to murder Ali Baba and his household have be discover .
He find all the gang be dead , and , miss the oil out of the last jar , become aware of the manner of their death .
He then force the lock of a door lead into a garden , and climb over several wall make his escape .
Morgiana heard and saw all this , and , rejoice at her success , go to bed and fell asleep .
At daybreak Ali Baba arise , and , see the oil jar still there , ask why the merchant have not go with his mule .
Morgiana bid him look in the first jar and see if there be any oil .
Seeing a man , he start back in terror .
`` Have no fear , '' say Morgiana ; `` the man can not harm you : he be dead . ''
Ali Baba , when he have recover somewhat from his astonishment , ask what have become of the merchant .
`` Merchant ! ''
say she , `` he be no more a merchant than I be ! ''
and she tell him the whole story , assure him that it be a plot of the robber of the forest , of whom only three be leave , and that the white and red chalk mark have something to do with it .
Ali Baba at once give Morgiana her freedom , say that he owe her his life .
They then bury the body in Ali Baba 's garden , while the mule be sell in the market by his slave .
The Captain return to his lonely cave , which seem frightful to him without his lost companion , and firmly resolve to avenge them by kill Ali Baba .
He dress himself carefully , and go into the town , where he take lodging in an inn .
In the course of a great many journey to the forest he carry away many rich stuff and much fine linen , and set up a shop opposite that of Ali Baba 's son .
He call himself Cogia Hassan , and a he be both civil and well dress he soon make friend with Ali Baba 's son , and through him with Ali Baba , whom he be continually ask to sup with him .
Ali Baba , wish to return his kindness , invite him into his house and receive him smile , thank him for his kindness to his son .
When the merchant be about to take his leave Ali Baba stop him , say : `` Where be you go , sir , in such haste ?
Will you not stay and sup with me ? ''
The merchant refuse , say that he have a reason ; and , on Ali Baba 's ask him what that be , he reply : `` It be , sir , that I can eat no victual that have any salt in them . ''
`` If that be all , '' say Ali Baba , `` let me tell you that there shall be no salt in either the meat or the bread that we eat to-night . ''
He go to give this order to Morgiana , who be much surprise .
`` Who be this man , '' she say , `` who eat no salt with his meat ? ''
`` He be an honest man , Morgiana , '' return her master ; `` therefore do a I bid you . ''
But she could not withstand a desire to see this strange man , so she help Abdallah to carry up the dish , and saw in a moment that Cogia Hassan be the robber Captain , and carry a dagger under his garment .
`` I be not surprised , '' she say to herself , `` that this wicked man , who intend to kill my master , will eat no salt with him ; but I will hinder his plan . ''
She send up the supper by Abdallah , while she make ready for one of the bold act that could be think on .
When the dessert have be serve , Cogia Hassan be leave alone with Ali Baba and his son , whom he think to make drunk and then to murder them .
Morgiana , meanwhile , put on a head-dress like a dancing-girl 's , and clasp a girdle round her waist , from which hang a dagger with a silver hilt , and say to Abdallah : `` Take your tabor , and let u go and divert our master and his guest . ''
Abdallah take his tabor and play before Morgiana until they come to the door , where Abdallah stop play and Morgiana make a low courtesy .
`` Come in , Morgiana , '' say Ali Baba , `` and let Cogia Hassan see what you can do '' ; and , turn to Cogia Hassan , he say : `` She 's my slave and my housekeeper . ''
Cogia Hassan be by no mean please , for he fear that his chance of kill Ali Baba be go for the present ; but he pretend great eagerness to see Morgiana , and Abdallah begin to play and Morgiana to dance .
After she have perform several dance she draw her dagger and make pass with it , sometimes point it at her own breast , sometimes at her master 's , a if it be part of the dance .
Suddenly , out of breath , she snatch the tabor from Abdallah with her left hand , and , hold the dagger in her right hand , hold out the tabor to her master .
Ali Baba and his son put a piece of gold into it , and Cogia Hassan , see that she be come to him , pull out his purse to make her a present , but while he be put his hand into it Morgiana plunge the dagger into his heart .
`` Unhappy girl ! ''
cry Ali Baba and his son , `` what have you do to ruin u ? ''
`` It be to preserve you , master , not to ruin you , '' answer Morgiana .
`` See here , '' open the false merchant 's garment and show the dagger ; `` see what an enemy you have entertain !
Remember , he would eat no salt with you , and what more would you have ?
Look at him !
he be both the false oil merchant and the Captain of the Forty Thieves . ''
Ali Baba be so grateful to Morgiana for thus save his life that he offer her to his son in marriage , who readily consent , and a few day after the wedding be celebrate with great splendor .
At the end of a year Ali Baba , hear nothing of the two remain robber , judge they be dead , and set out to the cave .
The door open on his saying : `` Open Sesame ! ''
He go in , and saw that nobody have be there since the Captain leave it .
He bring away a much gold a he could carry , and return to town .
He tell his son the secret of the cave , which his son hand down in his turn , so the child and grandchild of Ali Baba be rich to the end of their life .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Arabian Nights .
HANSEL AND GRETTEL Once upon a time there dwell on the outskirt of a large forest a poor woodcutter with his wife and two child ; the boy be call Hansel and the girl Grettel .
He have always little enough to live on , and once , when there be a great famine in the land , he could n't even provide them with daily bread .
One night , a he be toss about in bed , full of care and worry , he sigh and say to his wife : `` What 's to become of u ?
how be we to support our poor child , now that we have nothing more for ourselves ? ''
`` I 'll tell you what , husband , '' answer the woman ; `` early to-morrow morning we 'll take the child out into the thick part of the wood ; there we shall light a fire for them and give them each a piece of bread ; then we 'll go on to our work and leave them alone .
They wo n't be able to find their way home , and we shall thus be rid of them . ''
`` No , wife , '' say her husband , `` that I wo n't do ; how could I find it in my heart to leave my child alone in the wood ?
The wild beast would soon come and tear them to piece . ''
`` Oh !
you fool , '' say she , `` then we must all four die of hunger , and you may just as well go and plane the board for our coffin '' ; and she leave him no peace till he consent .
`` But I ca n't help feeling sorry for the poor child , '' add the husband .
The child , too , have not be able to sleep for hunger , and have hear what their step-mother have say to their father .
Grettel weep bitterly and speak to Hansel : `` Now it 's all up with u . ''
`` No , no , Grettel , '' say Hansel , `` do n't fret yourself ; I 'll be able to find a way to escape , no fear . ''
And when the old people have fall asleep he get up , slip on his little coat , open the back door and stole out .
The moon be shin clearly , and the white pebble which lay in front of the house glitter like bit of silver .
Hansel bend down and fill his pocket with a many of them a he could cram in .
Then he go back and say to Grettel : `` Be comfort , my dear little sister , and go to sleep : God will not desert u '' ; and he lay down in bed again .
At daybreak , even before the sun be up , the woman come and wake the two child : `` Get up , you lie-abeds , we 're all go to the forest to fetch wood . ''
She give them each a bit of bread and say : `` There 's something for your luncheon , but do n't you eat it up before , for it 's all you 'll get . ''
Grettel take the bread under her apron , a Hansel have the stone in his pocket .
Then they all set out together on the way to the forest .
After they have walk for a little , Hansel stand still and look back at the house , and this maneuver he repeat again and again .
His father observe him , and say : `` Hansel , what be you gaze at there , and why do you always remain behind ?
Take care , and do n't lose your footing . ''
`` Oh !
father , '' say Hansel , `` I be look back at my white kitten , which be sit on the roof , wave me a farewell . ''
The woman exclaim : `` What a donkey you be !
that be n't your kitten , that 's the morning sun shin on the chimney . ''
But Hansel have not look back at his kitten , but have always drop one of the white pebble out of his pocket on to the path .
When they have reach the middle of the forest the father say : `` Now , child , go and fetch a lot of wood , and I 'll light a fire that you may not feel cold . ''
Hansel and Grettel heap up brushwood till they have make a pile nearly the size of a small hill .
The brushwood be set fire to , and when the flame leap high the woman say : `` Now lie down at the fire , child , and rest yourselves : we be go into the forest to cut down wood ; when we 've finish we 'll come back and fetch you . ''
Hansel and Grettel sit down beside the fire , and at midday eat their little bit of bread .
They hear the stroke of the axe , so they think their father be quite near .
But it be no axe they hear , but a bough he have tie on a dead tree , and that be blow about by the wind .
And when they have sit for a long time their eye close with fatigue , and they fell fast asleep .
When they awake at last it be pitch dark .
Grettel begin to cry , and say : `` How be we ever to get out of the wood ? ''
But Hansel comfort her .
`` Wait a bit , '' he say , `` till the moon be up , and then we 'll find our way sure enough . ''
And when the full moon have rise he take his sister by the hand and follow the pebble , which shine like new threepenny bit , and show them the path .
They walk on through the night , and at daybreak reach their father 's house again .
They knock at the door , and when the woman open it she exclaim : `` You naughty child , what a time you 've sleep in the wood !
we think you be never go to come back . ''
But the father rejoice , for his conscience have reproach him for leave his child behind by themselves .
Not long afterward there be again great dearth in the land , and the child hear their mother address their father thus in bed one night : `` Everything be eat up once more ; we have only half a loaf in the house , and when that 's do it 's all up with u .
The child must be get rid of ; we 'll lead them deep into the wood this time , so that they wo n't be able to find their way out again .
There be no other way of save ourselves . ''
The man 's heart smite him heavily , and he think : `` Surely it would be good to share the last bite with one 's child ! ''
But his wife would n't listen to his argument , and do nothing but scold and reproach him .
If a man yield once he 's do for , and so , because he have give in the first time , he be force to do so the second .
But the child be awake , and have hear the conversation .
When the old people be asleep Hansel get up , and want to go out and pick up pebble again , a he have do the first time ; but the woman have bar the door , and Hansel could n't get out .
But he console his little sister , and say : `` Do n't cry , Grettel , and sleep peacefully , for God be sure to help u . ''
At early dawn the woman come and make the child get up .
They receive their bit of bread , but it be even small than the time before .
On the way to the wood Hansel crumble it in his pocket , and every few minute he stand still and drop a crumb on the ground .
`` Hansel , what be you stop and look about you for ? ''
say the father .
`` I 'm look back at my little pigeon , which be sit on the roof wave me a farewell , '' answer Hansel .
`` Fool ! ''
say the wife ; `` that be n't your pigeon , it 's the morning sun glitter on the chimney . ''
But Hansel gradually throw all his crumb on the path .
The woman lead the child still deeper into the forest farther than they have ever be in their life before .
Then a big fire be light again , and the mother say : `` Just sit down there , child , and if you 're tire you can sleep a bit ; we 're go into the forest to cut down wood , and in the evening when we 're finish we 'll come back to fetch you . ''
At midday Grettel divide her bread with Hansel , for he have strew his all along their path .
Then they fell asleep , and even pass away , but nobody come to the poor child .
They do n't awake till it be pitch dark , and Hansel comfort his sister , say : `` Only wait , Grettel , till the moon rise , then we shall see the bread-crumbs I scatter along the path ; they will show u the way back to the house . ''
When the moon appear they get up , but they find no crumb , for the thousand of bird that fly about the wood and field have pick them all up .
`` Never mind , '' say Hansel to Grettel ; `` you 'll see we 'll find a way out '' ; but all the same they do not .
They wander about the whole night , and the next day , from morning till evening , but they could not find a path out of the wood .
They be very hungry , too , for they have nothing to eat but a few berry they find grow on the ground .
And at last they be so tired that their leg refuse to carry them any longer , so they lay down under a tree and fell fast asleep .
On the third morning after they have leave their father 's house they set about their wandering again , but only get deep and deeply into the wood , and now they felt that if help do not come to them soon they must perish .
At midday they saw a beautiful little snow-white bird sit on a branch , which sing so sweetly that they stop still and listen to it .
And when it song be finish it flap it wing and fly on in front of them .
They follow it and come to a little house , on the roof of which it perch ; and when they come quite near they saw that the cottage be make of bread and roofed with cake , while the window be make of transparent sugar .
`` Now we 'll set to , '' say Hansel , `` and have a regular blow-out .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- I 'll eat a bit of the roof , and you , Grettel , can eat some of the window , which you 'll find a sweet morsel . ''
Hansel stretch up his hand and break off a little bit of the roof to see what it be like , and Grettel go to the casement and begin to nibble at it .
Thereupon a shrill voice call out from the room inside : `` Nibble , nibble , little mouse , Who 's nibble my house ? ''
The child answer : `` Tis Heaven 's own child , The tempest wild , '' and go on eating , without put themselves about .
Hansel , who thoroughly appreciate the roof , tore down a big bit of it , while Grettel push out a whole round window-pane , and sit down the good to enjoy it .
Suddenly the door open , and an ancient dame lean on a staff hobble out .
Hansel and Grettel be so terrify that they let what they have in their hand fall .
But the old woman shake her head and say : `` Oh , ho !
you dear child , who lead you here ?
Just come in and stay with me , no ill shall befall you . ''
She take them both by the hand and let them into the house , and lay a most sumptuous dinner before them -- milk and sugar pancake , with apple and nut .
After they have finish , two beautiful little white bed be prepare for them , and when Hansel and Grettel lay down in them they felt a if they have get into heaven .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- He be a vulgar boy !
The old woman have appear to be most friendly , but she be really an old witch who have waylay the child , and have only build the little bread house in order to lure them in .
When anyone come into her power she kill , cook , and eat him , and hold a regular feast-day for the occasion .
Now witch have red eye , and can not see far , but , like beast , they have a keen sense of smell , and know when human being pas by .
When Hansel and Grettel fell into her hand she laugh maliciously , and say jeeringly : `` I 've get them now ; they sha 'n ' t escape me . ''
Early in the morning , before the child be awake , she rise up , and when she saw them both sleep so peacefully , with their round rosy cheek , she mutter to herself : `` That 'll be a dainty bite . ''
Then she seize Hansel with her bony hand and carry him into a little stable , and bar the door on him ; he might scream as much a he like , it do him no good .
Then she go to Grettel , shake her till she awake , and cry : `` Get up , you lazy-bones , fetch water and cook something for your brother .
When he 's fat I 'll eat him up . ''
Grettel begin to cry bitterly , but it be of no use ; she have to do what the wicked witch bid her .
So the best food be cook for poor Hansel , but Grettel get nothing but crab-shells .
Every morning the old woman hobble out to the stable and cry : `` Hansel , put out your finger , that I may feel if you be get fat . ''
But Hansel always stretch out a bone , and the old dame , whose eye be dim , could n't see it , and think always it be Hansel 's finger , wonder why he fatten so slowly .
When four week have pass and Hansel still remain thin , she lose patience and determine to wait no longer .
`` Hi , Grettel , '' she call to the girl , `` be quick and get some water .
Hansel may be fat or thin , I 'm go to kill him to-morrow and cook him . ''
Oh !
how the poor little sister sob a she carry the water , and how the tear roll down her cheek !
`` Kind heaven help u now ! ''
she cry ; `` if only the wild beast in the wood have eat u , then at least we should have die together . ''
`` Just hold your peace , '' say the old hag ; `` it wo n't help you . ''
Early in the morning Grettel have to go out and hang up the kettle full of water , and light the fire .
`` First we 'll bake , '' say the old dame ; `` I 've heat the oven already and knead the dough . ''
She push Grettel out to the oven , from which fiery flame be already issue .
`` Creep in , '' say the witch , `` and see if it 's properly heat , so that we can shove in the bread . ''
For when she have get Grettel in she mean to close the oven and let the girl bake , that she might eat her up too .
But Grettel perceive her intention , and say : `` I do n't know how I 'm to do it ; how do I get in ? ''
`` You silly goose ! ''
say the hag , `` the opening be big enough ; see , I could get in myself , '' and she crawl toward it , and poke her head into the oven .
Then Grettel give her a shove that send her right in , shut the iron door , and draw the bolt .
Gracious !
how she yell , it be quite horrible ; but Grettel flee , and the wretched old woman be leave to perish miserably .
Grettel fly straight to Hansel , open the little stable-door , and cry : `` Hansel , we be free ; the old witch be dead . ''
Then Hansel spring like a bird out of a cage when the door be open .
How they rejoice , and fell on each other 's neck , and jump for joy , and kiss one another !
And a they have no longer any cause for fear , they go in the old hag 's house , and here they find , in every corner of the room , box with pearl and precious stone .
`` These be even good than pebble , '' say Hansel , and cram his pocket full of them ; and Grettel say : `` I too will bring something home , '' and she fill her apron full .
`` But now , '' say Hansel , `` let 's go and get well away from the witch 's wood . ''
When they have wander about for some hour they come to a big lake .
`` We ca n't get over , '' say Hansel ; `` I see no bridge of any sort or kind . ''
`` Yes , and there 's no ferry-boat either , '' answer Grettel ; `` but look , there swim a white duck ; if I ask her she 'll help u over , '' and she call out : `` Here be two child , mournful very , Seeing neither bridge nor ferry ; Take u upon your white back , And row u over , quack , quack ! ''
The duck swam toward them , and Hansel get on her back and bid his little sister sit beside him .
`` No , '' answer Grettel , `` we should be too heavy a load for the duck : she shall carry u across separately . ''
The good bird do this , and when they be land safely on the other side , and have go for a while , the wood become more and more familiar to them , and at length they saw their father 's house in the distance .
Then they set off to run , and bound into the room fell on their father 's neck .
The man have not pass a happy hour since he leave them in the wood , but the woman have die .
Grettel shake out her apron so that the pearl and precious stone roll about the room , and Hansel throw down one handful after the other out of his pocket .
Thus all their trouble be end , and they live happily ever afterward .
My story be do .
See !
there run a little mouse ; anyone who catch it may make himself a large fur cap out of it .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Grimm .
SNOW-WHITE AND ROSE-RED A poor widow once live in a little cottage with a garden in front of it , in which grow two rise tree , one bearing white rose and the other red .
She have two child , who be just like the two rise tree ; one be call Snow-white and the other Rose-red , and they be the sweet and best child in the world , always diligent and always cheerful ; but Snow-white be quiet and more gentle than Rose-red .
Rose-red love to run about the field and meadow , and to pick flower and catch butterfly ; but Snow-white sit at home with her mother and help her in the household , or read aloud to her when there be no work to do .
The two child love each other so dearly that they always walk about hand in hand whenever they go out together , and when Snow-white say , `` We will never desert each other , '' Rose-red answer : `` No , not as long a we live '' ; and the mother add : `` Whatever one get she shall share with the other . ''
They often roam about in the wood gathering berry and no beast offer to hurt them ; on the contrary , they come up to them in the most confiding manner ; the little hare would eat a cabbage leaf from their hand , the deer graze beside them , the stag would bind past them merrily , and the bird remain on the branch and sang to them with all their might .
No evil ever befall them ; if they tarry late in the wood and night overtake them , they lay down together on the moss and slept till morning , and their mother know they be quite safe , and never felt anxious about them .
Once , when they have sleep all night in the wood and have be waken by the morning sun , they perceive a beautiful child in a shin white robe sit close to their resting-place .
The figure get up , look at them kindly , but say nothing , and vanish into the wood .
And when they look round about them they become aware that they have sleep quite close to a precipice , over which they would certainly have fall have they go on a few step far in the darkness .
And when they tell their mother of their adventure , she say what they have see must have be the angel that guard good child .
Snow-white and Rose-red keep their mother 's cottage so beautifully clean and neat that it be a pleasure to go into it .
In summer Rose-red look after the house , and every morning before her mother awake she place a bunch of flower before the bed , from each tree a rise .
In winter Snow-white light the fire and put on the kettle , which be make of brass , but so beautifully polish that it shine like gold .
In the evening when the snowflake fell their mother say : `` Snow-white , go and close the shutter , '' and they draw round the fire , while the mother put on her spectacle and read aloud from a big book and the two girl listen and sit and span .
Beside them on the ground lay a little lamb , and behind them perch a little white dove with it head tuck under it wing .
One evening a they sit thus cosily together someone knock at the door a though he desire admittance .
The mother say : `` Rose-red , open the door quickly ; it must be some traveler seek shelter . ''
Rose-red hasten to unbar the door , and think she saw a poor man stand in the darkness outside ; but it be no such thing , only a bear , who poke his thick black head through the door .
Rose-red scream aloud and sprang back in terror , the lamb begin to bleat , the dove flap it wing , and Snow-white ran and hid behind her mother 's bed .
But the bear begin to speak , and say : `` Do n't be afraid : I wo n't hurt you .
I be half frozen , and only wish to warm myself a little . ''
`` My poor bear , '' say the mother , `` lie down by the fire , only take care you do n't burn your fur . ''
Then she call out : `` Snow-white and Rose-red , come out ; the bear will do you no harm ; he be a good , honest creature . ''
So they both come out of their hiding-places , and gradually the lamb and dive drew near too , and they all forget their fear .
The bear ask the child to beat the snow a little out of his fur , and they fetch a brush and scrub him till he be dry .
Then the beast stretch himself in front of the fire , and growl quite happily and comfortably .
The child soon grow quite at their ease with him , and lead their helpless guest a fearful life .
They tug his fur with their hand , put their small foot on his back , and roll him about here and there , or take a hazel wand and beat him with it ; and if he growl they only laugh .
The bear submit to everything with the best possible good-nature , only when they go too far he cry : `` Oh !
child , spare my life !
`` Snow-white and Rose-red , Do n't beat your lover dead . ''
When it be time to retire for the night , and the others go to bed , the mother say to the bear : `` You can lie there on the hearth , in heaven 's name ; it will be shelter for you from the cold and wet . ''
As soon a day dawn the child lead him out , and he trot over the snow into the wood .
From this time on the bear come every evening at the same hour , and lay down by the hearth and let the child play what prank they like with him ; and they get so accustomed to him that the door be never shut till their black friend have make his appearance .
When spring come , and all outside be green , the bear say one morning to Snow-white : `` Now I must go away , and not return again the whole summer . ''
`` Where be you go to , dear bear ? ''
ask Snow-white .
`` I must go to the wood and protect my treasure from the wicked dwarf .
In winter , when the earth be frozen hard , they be oblige to remain underground , for they ca n't work their way through ; but now , when the sun have thaw and warm the ground , they break through and come up above to spy the land and steal what they can ; what once fall into their hand and into their cave be not easily bring back to light . ''
Snow-white be quite sad over their friend 's departure , and when she unbar the door for him , the bear , step out , catch a piece of his fur in the door-knocker , and Snow-white think she catch sight of glitter gold beneath it , but she could n't be certain of it ; and the bear run hastily away , and soon disappear behind the tree .
A short time after this the mother send the child into the wood to collect fagot .
They come in their wandering upon a big tree which lay fell on the ground , and on the trunk among the long grass they notice something jump up and down , but what it be they could n't distinguish .
When they approach nearer they perceive a dwarf with a wizened face and a beard a yard long .
The end of the beard be jam into a cleft of the tree , and the little man spring about like a dog on a chain , and do n't seem to know what he be to do .
He glare at the girl with his fiery red eye , and scream out : `` What be you stand there for ?
Ca n't you come and help me ? ''
`` What be you do , little man ? ''
ask Rose-red .
`` You stupid , inquisitive goose ! ''
reply the dwarf ; `` I want to split the tree , in order to get little chip of wood for our kitchen fire ; those thick log that serve to make fire for coarse , greedy people like yourselves quite burn up all the little food we need .
I have successfully drive in the wedge , and all be go well , but the cursed wood be so slippery that it suddenly spring out , and the tree close up so rapidly that I have no time to take my beautiful white beard out , so here I be stuck fast , and I ca n't get away ; and you silly , smooth-faced , milk-and-water girl just stand and laugh !
Ugh !
what wretches you be ! ''
The child do all in their power , but they could n't get the beard out ; it be wedge in far too firmly .
`` I will run and fetch somebody , '' say Rose-red .
`` Crazy blockhead ! ''
snap the dwarf ; `` what 's the good of call anyone else ?
You 're already two too many for me .
Does nothing well occur to you than that ? ''
`` Do n't be so impatient , '' say Snow-white , `` I 'll see you get help , '' and take her scissors out of her pocket she cut off the end of his beard .
As soon a the dwarf felt himself free he seize a bag full of gold which be hide among the root of the tree , lift it up , and mutter aloud : `` Curse these rude wretch , cut off a piece of my splendid beard ! ''
With these word he swing the bag over his back , and disappear without as much a look at the child again .
Shortly after this Snow-white and Rose-red go out to get a dish of fish .
As they approach the stream they saw something which look like an enormous grasshopper spring toward the water a if it be go to jump in .
They run forward and recognize their old friend the dwarf .
`` Where be you go to ? ''
ask Rose-red ; `` you 're surely not go to jump into the water ? ''
`` I 'm not such a fool , '' scream the dwarf .
`` Do n't you see that cursed fish be try to drag me in ? ''
The little man have be sit on the bank fishing , when unfortunately the wind have entangle his beard in the line ; and when immediately afterward a big fish bit , the feeble little creature have no strength to pull it out ; the fish have the upper fin , and drag the dwarf toward him .
He cling on with all his might to every rush and blade of grass , but it do n't help him much ; he have to follow every movement of the fish , and be in great danger of be draw into the water .
The girl come up just at the right moment , hold him firm , and do all they could to disentangle his beard from the line ; but in vain , beard and line be in a hopeless muddle .
Nothing remain but to produce the scissors and cut the beard , by which a small part of it be sacrifice .
When the dwarf perceive what they be about he yell to them : `` Do you call that manner , you toad-stools !
to disfigure a fellow 's face ?
It be n't enough that you shorten my beard before , but you must now need cut off the best bit of it .
I ca n't appear like this before my own people .
I wish you 'd be in Jericho first . ''
Then he fetch a sack of pearl that lay among the rush , and without say another word he drag it away and disappear behind a stone .
It happen that soon after this the mother send the two girl to the town to buy needle , thread , lace , and ribbon .
Their road lead over a heath where huge boulder of rock lay scatter here and there .
While trudge along they saw a big bird hovering in the air , circle slowly above them , but always descend low , till at last it settle on a rock not far from them .
Immediately afterward they hear a sharp , pierce cry .
They run forward , and saw with horror that the eagle have pounce on their old friend the dwarf , and be about to carry him off .
The tender-hearted child seize hold of the little man , and struggle so long with the bird that at last he let go his prey .
When the dwarf have recover from the first shock he scream in his screeching voice : `` Could n't you have treat me more carefully ?
You have tear my thin little coat all to shred , useless , awkward hussy that you be ! ''
Then he take a bag of precious stone and vanish under the rock into his cave .
The girl be accustom to his ingratitude , and go on their way and do their business in town .
On their way home , a they be again pass the heath , they surprise the dwarf pour out his precious stone on an open space , for he have think no one would pass by at so late an hour .
The evening sun shone on the glittering stone , and they glance and gleam so beautifully that the child stand still and gaze on them .
`` What be you stand there gap for ? ''
scream the dwarf , and his ashen-gray face become scarlet with rage .
He be about to go off with these angry word when a sudden growl be hear , and a black bear trot out of the wood .
The dwarf jump up in great fright , but he have n't time to reach his place of retreat , for the bear be already close to him .
Then he cry in terror : `` Dear Mr. Bear , spare me !
I 'll give you all my treasure .
Look at those beautiful precious stone lie there .
Spare my life !
what pleasure would you get from a poor feeble little fellow like me ?
You wo n't feel me between your teeth .
There , lay hold of these two wicked girl , they will be a tender morsel for you , as fat a young quail ; eat them up , for heaven 's sake . ''
But the bear , pay no attention to his word , give the evil little creature one blow with his paw , and he never move again .
The girl have run away , but the bear call after them : `` Snow-white and Rose-red , do n't be afraid ; wait , and I 'll come with you . ''
Then they recognize his voice and stood still , and when the bear be quite close to them his skin suddenly fell off , and a beautiful man stand beside them , all dress in gold .
`` I be a king 's son , '' he say , `` and have be doom by that unholy little dwarf , who have steal my treasure , to roam about the wood a a wild bear till his death should set me free .
Now he have get his well-merited punishment . ''
Snow-white marry him , and Rose-red his brother , and they divide the great treasure the dwarf have collect in his cave between them .
The old mother live for many year peacefully with her child ; and she carry the two rise tree with her , and they stand in front of her window , and every year they bore the fine red and white rose .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Grimm .
THE GOOSE-GIRL Once upon a time an old queen , whose husband have be dead for many year , have a beautiful daughter .
When she grow up she be betroth to a prince who live a great way off .
Now , when the time draw near for her to be marry and to depart into a foreign kingdom , her old mother give her much costly baggage , and many ornament , gold and silver , trinket and knicknacks , and , in fact , everything that belong to a royal trousseau , for she love her daughter very dearly .
She give her a waiting-maid also , who be to ride with her and hand her over to the bridegroom , and she provide each of them with a horse for the journey .
Now the Princess 's horse be call Falada , and could speak .
When the hour for departure draw near the old mother go to her bedroom , and take a small knife she cut her finger till they bleed ; then she hold a white rag under them , and let three drop of blood fall into it , she give it to her daughter , and say : `` Dear child , take great care of this rag : it may be of use to you on the journey . ''
So they take a sad farewell of each other , and the Princess stick the rag in front of her dress , mount her horse , and set forth on the journey to her bridegroom 's kingdom .
After they have ride for about an hour the Princess begin to feel very thirsty , and say to her waiting-maid : `` Pray get down and fetch me some water in my golden cup out of yonder stream : I would like a drink . ''
`` If you 're thirsty , '' say the maid , `` dismount yourself , and lie down by the water and drink ; I do n't mean to be your servant any longer . ''
The Princess be so thirsty that she get down , bent over the stream , and drank , for she be n't allow to drink out of the golden goblet .
As she drink she murmur : `` Oh !
heaven , what be I to do ? ''
and the three drop of blood reply : `` If your mother only know , Her heart would surely break in two . ''
But the Princess be meek , and say nothing about her maid 's rude behavior , and quietly mount her horse again .
They ride on their way for several mile , but the day be hot , and the sun 's ray smite fiercely on them , so that the Princess be soon overcome by thirst again .
And a they pass a brook she call once more to her waiting-maid : `` Pray get down and give me a drink from my golden cup , '' for she have long ago forget her maid 's rude word .
But the waiting-maid replied , more haughtily even than before : `` If you want a drink , you can dismount and get it ; I do n't mean to be your servant . ''
Then the Princess be compel by her thirst to get down , and bending over the flowing water she cry and say : `` Oh !
heaven , what be I to do ? ''
and the three drop of blood reply : `` If your mother only know , Her heart would surely break in two . ''
And a she drink thus , and lean right over the water , the rag contain the three drop of blood fell from her bosom and float down the stream , and she in her anxiety never even notice her loss .
But the waiting-maid have observe it with delight , a she know it give her power over the bride , for in lose the drop of blood the Princess have become weak and powerless .
When she wish to get on her horse Falada again , the waiting-maid call out : `` I mean to ride Falada : you must mount my beast '' ; and this too she have to submit to .
Then the waiting-maid command her harshly to take off her royal robe , and to put on her common one , and finally she make her swear by heaven not to say a word about the matter when they reach the palace ; and if she have n't take this oath she would have be kill on the spot .
But Falada observe everything , and lay it all to heart .
The waiting-maid now mount Falada , and the real bride the bad horse , and so they continue their journey till at length they arrive at the palace yard .
There be great rejoicing over the arrival , and the Prince spring forward to meet them , and take the waiting-maid for his bride , he lift her down from her horse and lead her upstairs to the royal chamber .
In the meantime the real Princess be leave stand below in the courtyard .
The old King , who be look out of his window , behold her in this plight , and it strike him how sweet and gentle , even beautiful , she look .
He go at once to the royal chamber , and ask the bride who it be she have bring with her and have leave thus stand in the court below .
`` Oh ! ''
reply the bride , `` I bring her with me to keep me company on the journey ; give the girl something to do , that she may not be idle . ''
But the old King have no work for her , and could n't think of anything ; so he say , `` I 've a small boy who look after the goose , she 'd better help him . ''
The youth 's name be Curdken , and the real bride be make to assist him in herd geese .
Soon after this the false bride say to the Prince : `` Dearest husband , I pray you grant me a favor . ''
He answer : `` That I will . ''
`` Then let the slaughterer cut off the head of the horse I ride here upon , because it behave very badly on the journey . ''
But the truth be she be afraid l the horse should speak and tell how she have treat the Princess .
She carry her point , and the faithful Falada be doom to die .
When the news come to the ear of the real Princess she go to the slaughterer , and secretly promise him a piece of gold if he would do something for her .
There be in the town a large dark gate , through which she have to pass night and morning with the goose ; would he `` kindly hang up Falada 's head there , that she might see it once again ? ''
The slaughterer say he would do a she desire , chop off the head , and nail it firmly over the gateway .
Early next morning , a she and Curdken be drive their flock through the gate , she say a she pass under : `` Oh !
Falada , 't be you hang there '' ; and the head reply : '' 'T be you ; pass under , Princess fair : If your mother only know , Her heart would surely break in two . ''
Then she leave the tower and drive the geese into a field .
And when they have reach the common where the geese fed she sit down and unloose her hair , which be of pure gold .
Curdken love to see it glitter in the sun , and want much to pull some hair out .
Then she speak : `` Wind , wind , gently sway , Blow Curdken 's hat away ; Let him chase o'er field and wold Till my lock of ruddy gold , Now astray and hang down , Be comb and plait in a crown . ''
Then a gust of wind blew Curdken 's hat away , and he have to chase it over hill and dale .
When he return from the pursuit she have finish her combing and curling , and his chance of get any hair be go .
Curdken be very angry , and would n't speak to her .
So they herd the geese till even and then go home .
The next morning , a they pass under the gate , the girl say : `` Oh !
Falada , 't be you hang there ; '' and the head reply : '' 'T be you ; pass under , Princess fair : If your mother only know , Her heart would surely break in two . ''
Then she go on her way till she come to the common , where she sit down and begin to comb out her hair ; then Curdken run up to her and want to grasp some of the hair from her head , but she call out hastily : `` Wind , wind , gently sway , Blow Curdken 's hat away ; Let him chase o'er field and wold Till my lock of ruddy gold , Now astray and hang down , Be comb and plait in a crown . ''
Then a puff of wind come and blow Curdken 's hat far away , so that he have to run after it ; and when he return she have long finish put up her golden lock , and he could n't get any hair ; so they watch the geese till it be dark .
But that even when they get home Curdken go to the old King , and say : `` I refuse to herd geese any longer with that girl . ''
`` For what reason ? ''
ask the old King .
`` Because she do nothing but annoy me all day long , '' reply Curdken ; and he proceed to relate all her iniquity , and say : `` Every morning a we drive the flock through the dark gate she say to a horse 's head that hang on the wall : '' ` Oh !
Falada , 't be you hang there ' ; and the head reply : '' '' Tis you ; pass under , Princess fair : If your mother only know , Her heart would surely break in two . ' ''
And Curdken go on to tell what pass on the common where the geese fed , and how he have always to chase his hat .
The old King bade him go and drive forth his flock a usual next day ; and when morning come he himself take up his position behind the dark gate , and hear how the goose-girl greeted Falada .
Then he follow her through the field , and hid himself behind a bush on the common .
He soon saw with his own eye how the goose-boy and the goose-girl look after the geese , and how after a time the maiden sit down and loose her hair , that glitter like gold , and repeat : `` Wind , wind , gently sway , Blow Curdken 's hat away ; Let him chase o'er field and wold Till my lock of ruddy gold Now astray and hang down , Be comb and plait in a crown . ''
Then a gust of wind come and blow Curdken 's hat away , so that he have to fly over hill and dale after it , and the girl in the meantime quietly comb and plait her hair : all this the old King observe , and return to the palace without anyone have notice him .
In the evening when the goose-girl come home he call her aside , and ask her why she behave a she do .
`` I may not tell you why ; how dare I confide my woe to anyone ?
for I swear not to by heaven , otherwise I should have lose my life . ''
The old King beg her to tell him all , and leave her no peace , but he could get nothing out of her .
At last he say : `` Well , if you wo n't tell me , confide your trouble to the iron stove there , '' and he go away .
Then she creep to the stove , and begin to sob and cry and to pour out her poor little heart , and say : `` Here I sit , desert by all the world , I who be a king 's daughter , and a false waiting-maid have force me to take off my own clothes , and have take my place with my bridegroom , while I have to fulfill the lowly office of goose-girl .
`` If my mother only know Her heart would surely break in two . ''
But the old King stand outside at the stove chimney , and listen to her word .
Then he enter the room again , and bid her leave the stove , he order royal apparel to be put on her , in which she look amazingly lovely .
Then he summon his son , and reveal to him that he have get the false bride , who be nothing but a waiting-maid , while the real one , in the guise of the ex-goose-girl , be stand at his side .
The young King rejoice from his heart when he saw her beauty and learn how good she be , and a great banquet be prepare , to which everyone be bid .
The bridegroom sit at the head of the table , the Princess on one side of him and the waiting-maid on the other ; but she be so dazzled that she do not recognize the Princess in her glittering garment .
Now when they have eat and drunk , and be merry , the old King ask the waiting-maid to solve a knotty point for him .
`` What , '' say he , `` should be do to a certain person who have deceive everyone ? ''
and he proceed to relate the whole story , end up with , `` Now what sentence should be pass ? ''
Then the false bride answer : `` She deserve to be put stark naked into a barrel line with sharp nail , which should be drag by two white horse up and down the street till she be dead . ''
`` You be the person , '' say the King , `` and you have pass sentence on yourself ; and even so it shall be do to you . ''
And when the sentence have be carry out the young King be marry to his real bride , and both reign over the kingdom in peace and happiness .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Grimm .
TOADS AND DIAMONDS THERE be once upon a time a widow who have two daughter .
The eldest be so much like her in the face and humor that whoever look upon the daughter saw the mother .
They be both so disagreeable and so proud that there be no living with them .
The young , who be the very picture of her father for courtesy and sweetness of temper , be withal one of the most beautiful girl ever see .
As people naturally love their own likeness , this mother even dot on her eldest daughter and at the same time have a horrible aversion for the young -- she make her eat in the kitchen and work continually .
Among other thing , this poor child be force twice a day to draw water above a mile and a-half off the house , and bring home a pitcher full of it .
One day , a she be at this fountain , there come to her a poor woman , who beg of her to let her drink .
`` Oh !
ay , with all my heart , Goody , '' say this pretty little girl ; and rinse immediately the pitcher , she take up some water from the clear place of the fountain , and give it to her , hold up the pitcher all the while , that she might drink the easy .
The good woman , have drunk , say to her : `` You be so very pretty , my dear , so good and so mannerly , that I can not help give you a gift . ''
For this be a fairy , who have take the form of a poor country woman , to see how far the civility and good manner of this pretty girl would go .
`` I will give you for a gift , '' continue the Fairy , `` that , at every word you speak , there shall come out of your mouth either a flower or a jewel . ''
When this pretty girl come home her mother scold her for stay so long at the fountain .
`` I beg your pardon , mamma , '' say the poor girl , `` for not make more haste . ''
And in speak these word there come out of her mouth two rose , two pearl , and two diamond .
`` What be it I see there ? ''
say the mother , quite astonish .
`` I think I see pearls and diamonds come out of the girl 's mouth !
How happen this , child ? ''
This be the first time she have ever call her child .
The poor creature tell her frankly all the matter , not without drop out infinite number of diamond .
`` In good faith , '' cry the mother , `` I must send my child thither .
Come hither , Fanny ; look what come out of thy sister 's mouth when she speak .
Wouldst not thou be glad , my dear , to have the same gift give thee ?
Thou hast nothing else to do but go and draw water out of the fountain , and when a certain poor woman ask you to let her drink , to give it to her very civilly . ''
`` It would be a very fine sight indeed , '' say this ill-bred minx , `` to see me go draw water . ''
`` You shall go , hussy ! ''
say the mother ; `` and this minute . ''
So away she go , but grumble all the way , take with her the best silver tankard in the house .
She be no sooner at the fountain than she saw come out of the wood a lady most gloriously dress , who come up to her , and ask to drink .
This be , you must know , the very fairy who appear to her sister , but now have take the air and dress of a princess , to see how far this girl 's rudeness would go .
`` Am I come hither , '' say the proud , saucy one , `` to serve you with water , pray ?
I suppose the silver tankard be bring purely for your ladyship , be it ?
However , you may drink out of it , if you have a fancy . ''
`` You be not over and above mannerly , '' answer the Fairy , without put herself in a passion .
`` Well , then , since you have so little breeding , and be so disobliging , I give you for a gift that at every word you speak there shall come out of your mouth a snake or a toad . ''
So soon a her mother saw her come she cry out : `` Well , daughter ? ''
`` Well , mother ? ''
answer the pert hussy , throw out of her mouth two viper and two toad .
`` Oh !
mercy , '' cry the mother ; `` what be it I see ?
Oh !
it be that wretch her sister who have occasion all this ; but she shall pay for it '' ; and immediately she run to beat her .
The poor child flee away from her , and go to hide herself in the forest , not far from thence .
The King 's son , then on his return from hunt , meet her , and see her so very pretty , ask her what she do there alone and why she cry .
`` Alas !
sir , my mamma have turn me out of door . ''
The King 's son , who saw five or six pearl and a many diamond come out of her mouth , desire her to tell him how that happen .
She thereupon tell him the whole story ; and so the King 's son fell in love with her , and , consider himself that such a gift be worth more than any marriage portion , conduct her to the palace of the King his father , and there marry her .
As for the sister , she make herself so much hat that her own mother turn her off ; and the miserable wretch , have wander about a good while without find anybody to take her in , go to a corner of the wood , and there die .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Charles Perrault .
PRINCE DARLING ONCE upon a time there live a king who be so just and kind that his subject call him `` the Good King . ''
It happen one day , when he be out hunting , that a little white rabbit , which his dog be chase , sprang into his arm for shelter .
The King stroke it gently , and say to it : `` Well , bunny , a you have come to me for protection I will see that nobody hurt you . ''
And he take it home to his palace and have it put in a pretty little house , with all sort of nice thing to eat .
That night , when he be alone in his room , a beautiful lady suddenly appear before him ; her long dress be as white a snow , and she have a crown of white rose upon her head .
The good King be very much surprise to see her , for he know his door have be tightly shut , and he could not think how she have get in .
But she say to him : `` I be the Fairy Truth .
I be pass through the wood when you be out hunting , and I wish to find out if you be really good , a everybody say you be , so I take the shape of a little rabbit and come to your arm for shelter , for I know that those who be merciful to animal will be still kinder to their fellow-men .
If you have refuse to help me I should have be certain that you be wicked .
I thank you for the kindness you have show me , which have make me your friend for ever .
You have only to ask me for anything you want and I promise that I will give it to you . ''
`` Madam , '' say the good King , `` since you be a fairy you no doubt know all my wish .
I have but one son whom I love very dearly , that be why he be call Prince Darling .
If you be really good enough to wish to do me a favor , I beg that you will become his friend . ''
`` With all my heart , '' answer the Fairy .
`` I can make your son the handsome prince in the world , or the rich , or the most powerful ; choose whichever you like for him . ''
`` I do not ask either of these thing for my son , '' reply the good King ; `` but if you will make him the best of prince , I shall indeed be grateful to you .
What good would it do him to be rich , or handsome , or to possess all the kingdom of the world if he be wicked ?
You know well he would still be unhappy .
Only a good man can be really content . ''
`` You be quite right , '' answer the Fairy ; `` but it be not in my power to make Prince Darling a good man unless he will help me ; he must himself try hard to become good , I can only promise to give him good advice , to scold him for his fault , and to punish him if he will not correct and punish himself . ''
The good King be quite satisfied with this promise ; and very soon afterward he die .
Prince Darling be very sorry , for he love his father with all his heart , and he would willingly have give all his kingdom and all his treasure of gold and silver if they could have keep the good King with him .
Two day afterward , when the Prince have go to bed , the Fairy suddenly appear to him and say : `` I promise your father that I would be your friend , and to keep my word I have come to bring you a present . ''
At the same time she put a little gold ring upon his finger .
`` Take great care of this ring , '' she say : `` it be more precious than diamond ; every time you do a bad deed it will prick your finger , but if , in spite of it pricking , you go on in your own evil way , you will lose my friendship , and I shall become your enemy . ''
So say , the Fairy disappear , leave Prince Darling very much astonish .
For some time he behave so well that the ring never prick him , and that make him so content that his subject call him Prince Darling the Happy .
One day , however , he go out hunting , but could get no sport , which put him in a very bad temper ; it seem to him a he ride along that his ring be press into his finger , but a it do not prick him he do not heed it .
When he get home and go to his own room , his little dog Bibi run to meet him , jump round him with pleasure .
`` Get away ! ''
say the Prince , quite gruffly .
`` I do n't want you , you be in the way . ''
The poor little dog , who do n't understand this at all , pull at his coat to make him at least look at her , and this make Prince Darling so cross that he give her quite a hard kick .
Instantly his ring prick him sharply , a if it have be a pin .
He be very much surprise , and sit down in a corner of his room feeling quite ashamed of himself .
`` I believe the Fairy be laugh at me , '' he think .
`` Surely I can have do no great wrong in just kick a tiresome animal !
What be the good of my be ruler of a great kingdom if I be not even allow to beat my own dog ? ''
`` I be not make fun of you , '' say a voice , answer Prince Darling 's thought .
`` You have commit three fault .
First of all , you be out of temper because you could not have what you want , and you think all men and animal be only make to do your pleasure ; then you be really angry , which be very naughty indeed ; and lastly , you be cruel to a poor little animal who do not in the least deserve to be ill-treated .
`` I know you be far above a little dog , but if it be right and allowable that great people should ill-treat all who be beneath them , I might at this moment beat you , or kill you , for a fairy be great than a man .
The advantage of possess a great empire be not to be able to do the evil that one desire , but to do all the good that one possibly can . ''
The Prince saw how naughty he have be , and promise to try and do good in future , but he do not keep his word .
The fact be he have be bring up by a foolish nurse , who have spoil him when he be little .
If he want anything he only have to cry and fret and stamp his foot and she would give him whatever he ask for , which have make him self-willed ; also she have tell him from morning to night that he would one day be a king , and that king be very happy , because everyone be bind to obey and respect them , and no one could prevent them from do just a they like .
When the Prince grow old enough to understand , he soon learn that there could be nothing bad than to be proud , obstinate , and conceited , and he have really try to cure himself of these defect , but by that time all his fault have become habit ; and a bad habit be very hard to get rid of .
Not that he be naturally of a bad disposition ; he be truly sorry when he have be naughty , and say : `` I be very unhappy to have to struggle against my anger and pride every day ; if I have be punish for them when I be little they would not be such a trouble to me now . ''
His ring prick him very often , and sometimes he leave off what he be do at once ; but at other time he would not attend to it .
Strangely enough , it give him only a slight prick for a trifling fault , but when he be really naughty it make his finger actually bleed .
At last he get tired of be constantly remind , and want to be able to do a he like , so he throw his ring aside , and think himself the happy of men to have get rid of it teasing prick .
He give himself up to do every foolish thing that occur to him , until he become quite wicked and nobody could like him any longer .
One day , when the Prince be walk about , he saw a young girl who be so very pretty that he make up his mind at once that he would marry her .
Her name be Celia , and she be as good a she be beautiful .
Prince Darling fancy that Celia would think herself only too happy if he offer to make her a great queen , but she say fearlessly : `` Sire , I be only a shepherdess , and a poor girl , but , nevertheless , I will not marry you . ''
`` Do you dislike me ? ''
ask the Prince , who be very much vexed at this answer .
`` No , my Prince , '' reply Celia ; `` I can not help think you very handsome ; but what good would riches be to me , and all the grand dress and splendid carriage that you would give me , if the bad deed which I should see you do every day make me hate and despise you ? ''
The Prince be very angry at this speech , and command his officer to make Celia a prisoner and carry her off to his palace .
All day long the remembrance of what she have say annoy him , but a he love her he could not make up his mind to have her punish .
One of the Prince 's favorite companion be his foster-brother , whom he trust entirely ; but he be not at all a good man , and give Prince Darling very bad advice , and encourage him in all his evil way .
When he saw the Prince so downcast he ask what be the matter , and when he explain that he could not bear Celia 's bad opinion of him , and be resolve to be a good man in order to please her , this evil adviser say to him : `` You be very kind to trouble yourself about this little girl ; if I be you I would soon make her obey me .
Remember that you be a king , and that it would be laughable to see you try to please a shepherdess , who ought to be only too glad to be one of your slave .
Keep her in prison , and fee her on bread and water for a little while , and then , if she still say she will not marry you , have her head cut off , to teach other people that you mean to be obey .
Why , if you can not make a girl like that do a you wish , your subject will soon forget that they be only put into this world for our pleasure . ''
`` But , '' say Prince Darling , `` would it not be a shame if I have an innocent girl put to death ?
For Celia have do nothing to deserve punishment . ''
`` If people will not do a you tell them they ought to suffer for it , '' answer his foster-brother ; `` but even if it be unjust , you have good be accuse of that by your subject than that they should find out that they may insult and thwart you as often a they please . ''
In say this he be touch a weak point in his brother 's character ; for the Prince 's fear of lose any of his power make him at once abandon his first idea of try to be good , and resolve to try and frighten the shepherdess into consent to marry him .
His foster-brother , who want him to keep this resolution , invite three young courtier , as wicked a himself to sup with the Prince , and they persuade him to drink a great deal of wine , and continue to excite his anger against Celia by tell him that she have laugh at his love for her ; until at last , in quite a furious rage , he rush off to find her , declare that if she still refuse to marry him she should be sell a a slave the very next day .
But when he reach the room in which Celia have be lock up , he be greatly surprised to find that she be not in it , though he have the key in his own pocket all the time .
His anger be terrible , and he vow vengeance against whoever have help her to escape .
His bad friend , when they hear him , resolve to turn his wrath upon an old nobleman who have formerly be his tutor ; and who still dare sometimes to tell the Prince of his fault , for he love him a if he have be his own son .
At first Prince Darling have thank him , but after a time he grow impatient and think it must be just mere love of fault-finding that make his old tutor blame him when everyone else be praise and flatter him .
So he order him to retire from his Court , though he still , from time to time , spoke of him a a worthy man whom he respect , even if he no longer love him .
His unworthy friend fear that he might some day take it into his head to recall his old tutor , so they think they now have a good opportunity of get him banish for ever .
They report to the Prince that Suliman , for that be the tutor 's name , have boast of have help Celia to escape , and they bribe three men to say that Suliman himself have tell them about it .
The Prince , in great anger , send his foster-brother with a number of soldier to bring his tutor before him , in chain , like a criminal .
After give this order he go to his own room , but he have scarcely get into it when there be a clap of thunder which make the ground shake , and the Fairy Truth appear suddenly before him .
`` I promise your father , '' say she sternly , `` to give you good advice , and to punish you if you refuse to follow it .
You have despise my counsel , and have go your own evil way until you be only outwardly a man ; really you be a monster -- the horror of everyone who know you .
It be time that I should fulfil my promise , and begin your punishment .
I condemn you to resemble the animal whose way you have imitate .
You have make yourself like the lion by your anger , and like the wolf by your greediness .
Like a snake , you have ungratefully turn upon one who be a second father to you ; your churlishness have make you like a bull .
Therefore , in your new form , take the appearance of all these animal . ''
The Fairy have scarcely finish speaking when Prince Darling saw to his horror that her word be fulfil .
He have a lion 's head , a bull 's horn , a wolf 's foot , and a snake 's body .
At the same instant he find himself in a great forest , beside a clear lake , in which he could see plainly the horrible creature he have become , and a voice say to him : `` Look carefully at the state to which your wickedness have bring you ; believe me , your soul be a thousand time more hideous than your body . ''
Prince Darling recognize the voice of the Fairy Truth and turn in a fury to catch her and eat her up if he possibly could ; but he saw no one , and the same voice go on : `` I laugh at your powerlessness and anger , and I intend to punish your pride by let you fall into the hand of your own subject . ''
The Prince begin to think that the best thing he could do would be to get a far away from the lake a he could , then at least he would not be continually remind of his terrible ugliness .
So he run toward the wood , but before he have go many yard he fell into a deep pit which have be make to trap bear , and the hunter , who be hide in a tree , leap down , and secure him with several chain , and lead him into the chief city of his own kingdom .
On the way , instead of recognize that his own fault have bring this punishment upon him , he accuse the Fairy of be the cause of all his misfortune , and bit and tore at his chain furiously .
As they approach the town he saw that some great rejoicing be be hold , and when the hunter ask what have happen they be tell that the Prince , whose only pleasure it be to torment his people , have be find in his room , kill by a thunder-bolt -LRB- for that be what be suppose to have become of him -RRB- .
Four of his courtier , those who have encourage him in his wicked doings , have try to seize the kingdom and divide it between them , but the people , who know it be their bad counsel which have so change the Prince , have cut off their head , and have offer the crown to Suliman , whom the Prince have leave in prison .
This noble lord have just be crown , and the deliverance of the kingdom be the cause of the rejoice `` For , '' they say , `` he be a good and just man , and we shall once more enjoy peace and prosperity . ''
Prince Darling roar with anger when he hear this ; but it be still bad for him when he reach the great square before his own palace .
He saw Suliman seat upon a magnificent throne , and all the people crowd round , wish him a long life that he might undo all the mischief do by his predecessor .
Presently Suliman make a sign with his hand that the people should be silent , and say : `` I have accept the crown you have offer me , but only that I may keep it for Prince Darling , who be not dead a you suppose ; the Fairy have assure me that there be still hope that you may some day see him again , good and virtuous a he be when he first come to the throne .
Alas ! ''
he continue , `` he be lead away by flatterer .
I know his heart , and be certain that if it have not be for the bad influence of those who surround him he would have be a good king and a father to his people .
We may hate his fault , but let u pity him and hope for his restoration .
As for me , I would die gladly if that could bring back our Prince to reign justly and worthily once more . ''
These word go to Prince Darling 's heart ; he realize the true affection and faithfulness of his old tutor , and for the first time reproach himself for all his evil deed ; at the same instant he felt all his anger melt away , and he begin quickly to think over his past life , and to admit that his punishment be not more than he have deserve .
He leave off tear at the iron bar of the cage in which he be shut up , and become as gentle a a lamb .
The hunter who have catch him take him to a great menagerie , where he be chain up among all the other wild beast , and he determine to show his sorrow for his past bad behavior by be gentle and obedient to the man who have to take care of him .
Unfortunately , this man be very rough and unkind , and though the poor monster be quite quiet , he often beat him without rhyme or reason when he happen to be in a bad temper .
One day when this keeper be asleep a tiger break it chain , and fly at him to eat him up .
Prince Darling , who saw what be go on , at first felt quite pleased to think that he should be deliver from his persecutor , but soon think good of it and wish that he be free .
`` I would return good for evil , '' he say to himself , `` and save the unhappy man 's life . ''
He have hardly wish this when his iron cage fly open , and he rush to the side of the keeper , who be awake and be defend himself against the tiger .
When he saw the monster have get out he give himself up for lose , but his fear be soon change into joy , for the kind monster throw itself upon the tiger and very soon kill it , and then come and crouch at the foot of the man it have save .
Overcome with gratitude , the keeper stoop to caress the strange creature which have do him such a great service ; but suddenly a voice say in his ear : `` A good action should never go unrewarded , '' and at the same instant the monster disappear , and he saw at his foot only a pretty little dog !
Prince Darling , delight by the change , frisk about the keeper , show his joy in every way he could , and the man , take him up in his arm , carry him to the King , to whom he tell the whole story .
The Queen say she would like to have this wonderful little dog , and the Prince would have be very happy in his new home if he could have forget that he be a man and a king .
The Queen pet and take care of him , but she be so afraid that he would get too fat that she consult the court physician , who say that he be to be feed only upon bread , and be not to have much even of that .
So poor Prince Darling be terribly hungry all day long , but he be very patient about it .
One day , when they give him his little loaf for breakfast , he think he would like to eat it out in the garden ; so he take it up in his mouth and trot away toward a brook that he know of a long way from the palace .
But he be surprise to find that the brook be go , and where it have be stand a great house that seem to be build of gold and precious stone .
Numbers of people splendidly dress be go into it , and sound of music and dancing and feasting could be hear from the window .
But what seem very strange be that those people who come out of the house be pale and thin , and their clothes be tear , and hang in rag about them .
Some fell down dead a they come out before they have time to get away ; others crawl far with great difficulty ; while others again lay on the ground , faint with hunger , and beg a morsel of bread from those who be go into the house , but they would not so much a look at the poor creature .
Prince Darling go up to a young girl who be try to eat a few blade of grass , she be so hungry .
Touched with compassion , he say to himself : `` I be very hungry , but I shall not die of starvation before I get my dinner ; if I give my breakfast to this poor creature perhaps I may save her life . ''
So he lay his piece of bread in the girl 's hand , and saw her eat it up eagerly .
She soon seem to be quite well again , and the Prince , delight to have be able to help her , be think of go home to the palace , when he hear a great outcry , and , turn round , saw Celia , who be be carry against her will into the great house .
For the first time the Prince regret that he be no long the monster , then he would have be able to rescue Celia ; now he could only bark feebly at the people who be carry her off , and try to follow them , but they chase and kick him away .
He determine not to quit the place till he know what have become of Celia , and blame himself for what have befall her .
`` Alas ! ''
he say to himself , `` I be furious with the people who be carry Celia off , but be n't that exactly what I do myself , and if I have not be prevent do I not intend to be still more cruel to her ? ''
Here he be interrupt by a noise above his head -- someone be open a window , and he saw with delight that it be Celia herself , who come forward and throw out a plate of most delicious-looking food , then the window be shut again , and Prince Darling , who have not have anything to eat all day , think he might as well take the opportunity of get something .
He run forward to begin , but the young girl to whom he have give his bread give a cry of terror and take him up in her arm , say : `` Do n't touch it , my poor little dog -- that house be the palace of pleasure , and everything that come out of it be poison ! ''
At the same moment a voice say : `` You see a good action always bring it reward , '' and the Prince find himself change into a beautiful white dove .
He remember that white be the favorite color of the Fairy Truth , and begin to hope that he might at last win back her favor .
But just now his first care be for Celia , and rise into the air he fly round and round the house , until he saw an open window ; but he search through every room in vain .
No trace of Celia be to be see , and the Prince , in despair , determine to search through the world till he find her .
He fly on and on for several day , till he come to a great desert , where he saw a cavern , and , to his delight , there sat Celia , share the simple breakfast of an old hermit .
Overjoyed to have find her , Prince Darling perch upon her shoulder , try to express by his caress how glad he be to see her again , and Celia , surprise and delight by the tameness of this pretty white dove , stroke it softly , and say , though she never think of it understand her : `` I accept the gift that you make me of yourself , and I will love you always . ''
`` Take care what you be say , Celia , '' say the old hermit ; `` be you prepared to keep that promise ? ''
`` Indeed , I hope so , my sweet shepherdess , '' cry the Prince , who be at that moment restore to his natural shape .
`` You promise to love me always ; tell me that you really mean what you say , or I shall have to ask the Fairy to give me back the form of the dove which please you so much . ''
`` You need not be afraid that she will change her mind , '' say the Fairy , throw off the hermit 's robe in which she have be disguise and appear before them .
`` Celia have love you ever since she first saw you , only she would not tell you while you be so obstinate and naughty .
Now you have repent and mean to be good you deserve to be happy , and so she may love you as much a she like . ''
Celia and Prince Darling throw themselves at the Fairy 's foot , and the Prince be never tire of thank her for her kindness .
Celia be delight to hear how sorry he be for all his past folly and misdeed , and promise to love him as long a she live .
`` Rise , my child , '' say the Fairy , `` and I will transport you to the palace , and Prince Darling shall have back again the crown he forfeit by his bad behavior . ''
While she be speak , they find themselves in Suliman 's hall , and his delight be great at see his dear master once more .
He give up the throne joyfully to the Prince , and remain always the most faithful of his subject .
Celia and Prince Darling reign for many year , but he be so determined to govern worthily and to do his duty that his ring , which he take to wear again , never once prick him severely .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Cabinet de Fees .
BLUE BEARD There be a man who have fine house , both in town and country , a deal of silver and gold plate , embroidered furniture , and coach gild all over with gold .
But this man be so unlucky a to have a blue beard , which make him so frightfully ugly that all the woman and girl run away from him .
One of his neighbor , a lady of quality , have two daughter who be perfect beauty .
He desire of her one of them in marriage , leave to her choice which of the two she would bestow on him .
They would neither of them have him , and send him backward and forward from one another , not be able to bear the thought of marry a man who have a blue beard , and what besides give them disgust and aversion be his have already be marry to several wife , and nobody ever know what become of them .
Blue Beard , to engage their affection , take them , with the lady their mother and three or four lady of their acquaintance , with other young people of the neighborhood , to one of his country seat , where they stay a whole week .
There be nothing then to be see but party of pleasure , hunting , fishing , dance , mirth , and feasting .
Nobody go to bed , but all pass the night in rally and joke with each other .
In short , everything succeed so well that the young daughter begin to think the master of the house not to have a beard so very blue , and that he be a mighty civil gentleman .
As soon a they return home , the marriage be conclude .
About a month afterward , Blue Beard tell his wife that he be oblige to take a country journey for six week at least , about affair of very great consequence , desire her to divert herself in his absence , to send for her friend and acquaintance , to carry them into the country , if she please , and to make good cheer wherever she be .
`` Here , '' say he , `` be the key of the two great wardrobe , wherein I have my best furniture ; these be of my silver and gold plate , which be not every day in use ; these open my strong box , which hold my money , both gold and silver ; these my casket of jewel ; and this be the master-key to all my apartment .
But for this little one here , it be the key of the closet at the end of the great gallery on the ground floor .
Open them all ; go into all and every one of them , except that little closet , which I forbid you , and forbid it in such a manner that , if you happen to open it , there 's nothing but what you may expect from my just anger and resentment . ''
She promise to observe , very exactly , whatever he have order ; when he , after have embrace her , get into his coach and proceed on his journey .
Her neighbor and good friend do not stay to be send for by the new married lady , so great be their impatience to see all the rich furniture of her house , not dare to come while her husband be there , because of his blue beard , which frighten them .
They run through all the room , closet , and wardrobe , which be all so fine and rich that they seem to surpass one another .
After that they go up into the two great room , where be the best and richest furniture ; they could not sufficiently admire the number and beauty of the tapestry , bed , couch , cabinet , stand , table , and looking-glasses , in which you might see yourself from head to foot ; some of them be frame with glass , others with silver , plain and gild , the fine and most magnificent ever be see .
They cease not to extol and envy the happiness of their friend , who in the meantime in no way divert herself in look upon all these rich thing , because of the impatience she have to go and open the closet on the ground floor .
She be so much press by her curiosity that , without consider that it be very uncivil to leave her company , she go down a little back staircase , and with such excessive haste that she have twice or thrice like to have break her neck .
Coming to the closet-door , she make a stop for some time , think upon her husband 's order , and consider what unhappiness might attend her if she be disobedient ; but the temptation be so strong she could not overcome it .
She then take the little key , and open it , tremble , but could not at first see anything plainly , because the window be shut .
After some moment she begin to perceive that the floor be all cover over with clotted blood , on which lay the body of several dead woman , range against the wall .
-LRB- These be all the wife whom Blue Beard have marry and murder , one after another . -RRB-
She think she should have die for fear , and the key , which she pull out of the lock , fell out of her hand .
After have somewhat recover her surprise , she take up the key , lock the door , and go upstairs into her chamber to recover herself ; but she could not , she be so much frighten .
Having observe that the key of the closet be stain with blood , she try two or three time to wipe it off , but the blood would not come out ; in vain do she wash it , and even rub it with soap and sand ; the blood still remain , for the key be magical and she could never make it quite clean ; when the blood be go off from one side , it come again on the other .
Blue Beard return from his journey the same evening , and say he have receive letter upon the road , inform him that the affair he go about be end to his advantage .
His wife do all she could to convince him she be extremely glad of his speedy return .
Next morning he ask her for the key , which she give him , but with such a trembling hand that he easily guess what have happen .
`` What ! ''
say he , `` be not the key of my closet among the rest ? ''
`` I must certainly have leave it above upon the table , '' say she .
`` Fail not to bring it to me presently , '' say Blue Beard .
After several going backward and forward she be force to bring him the key .
Blue Beard , have very attentively consider it , say to his wife , `` How come this blood upon the key ? ''
`` I do not know , '' cry the poor woman , paler than death .
`` You do not know ! ''
reply Blue Beard .
`` I very well know .
You be resolve to go into the closet , be you not ?
Mighty well , madam ; you shall go in , and take your place among the lady you saw there . ''
Upon this she throw herself at her husband 's foot , and beg his pardon with all the sign of true repentance , vow that she would never more be disobedient .
She would have melt a rock , so beautiful and sorrowful be she ; but Blue Beard have a heart harder than any rock !
`` You must die , madam , '' say he , `` and that presently . ''
`` Since I must die , '' answer she -LRB- look upon him with her eye all bath in tear -RRB- , `` give me some little time to say my prayer . ''
`` I give you , '' reply Blue Beard , `` half a quarter of an hour , but not one moment more . ''
When she be alone she call out to her sister , and say to her : `` Sister Anne '' -LRB- for that be her name -RRB- , `` go up , I beg you , upon the top of the tower , and look if my brother be not come over ; they promise me that they would come to-day , and if you see them , give them a sign to make haste . ''
Her sister Anne go up upon the top of the tower , and the poor afflicted wife cry out from time to time : `` Anne , sister Anne , do you see anyone come ? ''
And sister Anne say : `` I see nothing but the sun , which make a dust , and the grass , which look green . ''
In the meanwhile Blue Beard , hold a great sabre in his hand , cry out as loud a he could bawl to his wife : `` Come down instantly , or I shall come up to you . ''
`` One moment longer , if you please , '' say his wife , and then she cry out very softly , `` Anne , sister Anne , dost thou see anybody come ? ''
And sister Anne answer : `` I see nothing but the sun , which make a dust , and the grass , which be green . ''
`` Come down quickly , '' cry Blue Beard , `` or I will come up to you . ''
`` I be come , '' answer his wife ; and then she cry , `` Anne , sister Anne , dost thou not see anyone come ? ''
`` I see , '' reply sister Anne , `` a great dust , which come on this side here . ''
`` Are they my brother ? ''
`` Alas !
no , my dear sister , I see a flock of sheep . ''
`` Will you not come down ? ''
cry Blue Beard `` One moment longer , '' say his wife , and then she cry out : `` Anne , sister Anne , dost thou see nobody come ? ''
`` I see , '' say she , `` two horseman , but they be yet a great way off . ''
`` God be praise , '' reply the poor wife joyfully ; `` they be my brother ; I will make them a sign , as well a I can , for them to make haste . ''
Then Blue Beard bawl out so loud that he make the whole house tremble .
The distressed wife come down , and throw herself at his foot , all in tear , with her hair about her shoulder .
`` This signify nothing , '' say Blue Beard ; `` you must die '' ; then , take hold of her hair with one hand , and lift up the sword with the other , he be go to take off her head .
The poor lady , turn about to him , and look at him with die eye , desire him to afford her one little moment to recollect herself .
`` No , no , '' say he , `` recommend thyself to God , '' and be just ready to strike ... At this very instant there be such a loud knocking at the gate that Blue Beard make a sudden stop .
The gate be open , and presently enter two horseman , who , draw their sword , run directly to Blue Beard .
He know them to be his wife 's brother , one a dragoon , the other a musketeer , so that he run away immediately to save himself ; but the two brother pursue so close that they overtake him before he could get to the step of the porch , when they run their sword through his body and leave him dead .
The poor wife be almost as dead a her husband , and have not strength enough to rise and welcome her brother .
Blue Beard have no heir , and so his wife become mistress of all his estate .
She make use of one part of it to marry her sister Anne to a young gentleman who have love her a long while ; another part to buy captain commission for her brother , and the rest to marry herself to a very worthy gentleman , who make her forget the ill time she have pass with Blue Beard .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Charles Perrault .
TRUSTY JOHN Once upon a time there be an old king who be so ill that he think to himself , `` I be most likely on my death-bed . ''
Then he say , `` Send Trusty John to me . ''
Now Trusty John be his favorite servant , and be so call because all his life he have serve him so faithfully .
When he approach the bed the King spake to him : `` Most trusty John , I feel my end be draw near , and I could face it without a care be it not for my son .
He be still too young to decide everything for himself , and unless you promise me to instruct him in all he should know , and to be to him a a father , I shall not close my eye in peace . ''
Then Trusty John answer : `` I will never desert him , and will serve him faithfully , even though it should cost me my life . ''
Then the old King say : `` Now I die comfort and in peace '' ; and then he go on : `` After my death you must show him the whole castle , all the room and apartment and vault , and all the treasure that lie in them ; but you must not show him the last room in the long passage , where the picture of the Princess of the Golden Roof be hide .
When he behold that picture he will fall violently in love with it and go off into a dead faint , and for her sake he will encounter many danger ; you must guard him from this . ''
And when Trusty John have again give the King his hand upon it the old man become silent , lay his head on the pillow , and die .
When the old King have be carry to his grave Trusty John tell the young King what he have promise his father on his death-bed , and add : `` And I shall assuredly keep my word , and shall be faithful to you a I have be to him , even though it should cost me my life . ''
Now when the time of mourning be over , Trusty John say to him : `` It be time you should see your inheritance .
I will show you your ancestral castle . ''
So he take him over everything , and let him see all the rich and splendid apartment , only the one room where the picture be he do not open .
But the picture be place so that if the door open you gaze straight upon it , and it be so beautifully paint that you imagine it live and move , and that it be the most lovable and beautiful thing in the whole world .
But the young King notice that Trusty John always miss one door , and say : `` Why do you never open this one for me ? ''
`` There be something inside that would appall you , '' he answer .
But the King reply : `` I have see the whole castle , and shall find out what be in there '' ; and with these word he approach the door and want to force it open .
But Trusty John hold him back , and say : `` I promise your father before his death that you should n't see what that room contains .
It might bring both you and me to great grief . ''
`` Ah !
no , '' answer the young King ; `` if I do n't get in , it will be my certain destruction ; I should have no peace night or day till I have see what be in the room with my own eye .
Now I do n't budge from the spot till you have open the door . ''
Then Trusty John saw there be no way out of it , so with a heavy heart and many sigh he take the key from the big bunch .
When he have open the door he step in first , and think to cover the likeness so that the King might not perceive it ; but it be hopeless : the King stand on tiptoe and look over his shoulder .
And when he saw the picture of the maid , so beautiful and glitter with gold and precious stone , he fell swoon to the ground .
Trusty John lift him up , carry him to bed , and think sorrowfully : `` The curse have come upon u ; gracious heaven !
what will be the end of it all ? ''
Then he pour wine down his throat till he come to himself again .
The first word he speak be : `` Oh !
who be the original of the beautiful picture ? ''
`` She be the Princess of the Golden Roof , '' answer Trusty John .
Then the King continue : `` My love for her be so great that if all the leaf on the tree have tongue they could not express it ; my very life depend on my win her .
You be my most trusty John : you must stand by me . ''
The faithful servant ponder long how they be to set about the matter , for it be say to be difficult even to get into the presence of the Princess .
At length he hit upon a plan , and speak to the King : `` All the thing she have about her -- table , chair , dish , goblet , bowl , and all her household furniture -- be make of gold .
You have in your treasure five ton of gold ; let the goldsmith of your kingdom manufacture them into all manner of vas and vessel , into all sort of bird and game and wonderful beast ; that will please her .
We shall go to her with them and try our luck . ''
The King summon all his goldsmith , and they have to work hard day and night , till at length the most magnificent thing be complete .
When a ship have be lade with them the faithful John disguise himself a a merchant , and the King have to do the same , so that they should be quite unrecognizable .
And so they cross the sea and journeyed till they reach the town where the Princess of the Golden Roof dwelt .
Trusty John make the King remain behind on the ship and await his return .
`` Perhaps , '' he say , `` I may bring the Princess back with me , so see that everything be in order ; let the gold ornament be arrange and the whole ship decorate . ''
Then he take a few of the gold thing in his apron , go ashore , and proceed straight to the palace .
When he come to the courtyard he find a beautiful maiden standing at the well , draw water with two golden pail .
And a she be about to carry away the glittering water she turn round and saw the stranger , and ask him who he be .
Then he reply : `` I be a merchant , '' and open his apron , he let her peep in .
`` Oh !
my , '' she cry ; `` what beautiful gold ware ! ''
she set down her pail , and examine one thing after the other .
Then she say : `` The Princess must see this , she have such a fancy for gold thing that she will buy up all you have . ''
She take him by the hand and let him into the palace , for she be the lady 's maid .
When the Princess have see the ware she be quite enchant , and say : `` They be all so beautifully make that I shall buy everything you have . ''
But Trusty John say : `` I be only the servant of a rich merchant , what I have here be nothing compare to what my master have on his ship ; his merchandise be more artistic and costly than anything that have ever be make in gold before . ''
She desire to have everything bring up to her , but he say : `` There be such a quantity of thing that it would take many day to bring them up , and they would take up so many room that you would have no space for them in your house . ''
Thus her desire and curiosity be excite to such an extent that at last she say : `` Take me to your ship ; I shall go there myself and view your master 's treasure . ''
Then Trusty John be quite delighted , and bring her to the ship ; and the King , when he behold her , saw that she be even more beautiful than her picture , and think every moment that his heart would burst .
She step on to the ship , and the King lead her inside .
But Trusty John remain behind with the steersman , and order the ship to push off .
`` Spread all sail , that we may fly on the ocean like a bird in the air . ''
Meanwhile the King show the Princess inside all his gold ware , every single bit of it -- dish , goblet , bowl , the bird and game , and all the wonderful beast .
Many hour pass thus , and she be so happy that she do not notice that the ship be sail away .
After she have see the last thing she thank the merchant and prepare to go home ; but when she come to the ship 's side she saw that they be on the high sea , far from land , and that the ship be speed on it way under full canvas .
`` Oh ! ''
she cry in terror , `` I be deceive , carry away and betray into the power of a merchant ; I would rather have die ! ''
But the King seize her hand and spake : `` I be no merchant , but a king of as high birth a yourself ; and it be my great love for you that make me carry you off by stratagem .
The first time I saw your likeness I fell to the ground in a swoon . ''
When the Princess of the Golden Roof hear this she be comfort , and her heart go out to him , so that she willingly consent to become his wife .
Now it happen one day , while they be sail on the high sea , that Trusty John , sit on the forepart of the ship , fiddle away to himself , observe three raven in the air fly toward him .
He cease playing , and listen to what they be say , for he understand their language .
The one croaked : `` Ah , ha !
so he 's bring the Princess of the Golden Roof home . ''
`` Yes , '' answer the second , `` but he 's not get her yet . ''
`` Yes , he have , '' spake the third , `` for she 's sit beside him on the ship . ''
Then number one begin again and cry : `` That 'll not help him !
When they reach the land a chestnut horse will dash forward to greet them : the King will wish to mount it , and if he do it will gallop away with him , and disappear into the air , and he will never see his bride again . ''
`` Is there no escape for him ? ''
ask number two .
`` Oh !
yes , if someone else mount quickly and shoot the horse dead with the pistol that be stick in the holster , then the young King be save .
But who 's to do that ?
And anyone who know it and tell him will be turn into stone from his foot to his knee . ''
Then spake number two : `` I know more than that : even if the horse be slay , the young King will still not keep his bride : when they enter the palace together they will find a ready-made wedding shirt in a cupboard , which look a though it be weave of gold and silver , but be really make of nothing but sulphur and tar : when the King put it on it will burn him to his marrow and bone . ''
Number three ask : `` Is there no way of escape , then ? ''
`` Oh !
yes , '' answer number two : `` If someone seize the shirt with gloved hand and throw it into the fire , and let it burn , then the young King be save .
But what 's the good ?
Anyone know this and tell it will have half his body turn into stone , from his knee to his heart . ''
Then number three spake : `` I know yet more : though the bridal shirt too be burnt , the King have n't even then secure his bride : when the dance be hold after the wedding , and the young Queen be dance , she will suddenly grow deadly white , and drop down like one dead , and unless some one lift her up and draw three drop of blood from her right side , and spit them out again , she will die .
But if anyone who know this betray it , he will be turn into stone from the crown of his head to the sol of his foot . ''
When the raven have thus converse they flee onward , but Trusty John have take it all in , and be sad and depress from that time forward ; for if he be silent to his master concern what he have hear , he would involve him in misfortune ; but if he take him into his confidence , then he himself would forfeit his life .
At last he say : `` I will stand by my master , though it should be my ruin . ''
Now when they draw near the land it come to pass just a the raven have predict , and a splendid chestnut horse bound forward .
`` Capital ! ''
say the King ; `` this animal shall carry me to my palace , '' and be about to mount , but Trusty John be too sharp for him , and , spring up quickly , seize the pistol out of the holster and shoot the horse dead .
Then the other servant of the King , who at no time look favorably on Trusty John , cry out : `` What a sin to kill the beautiful beast that be to bear the King to his palace ! ''
But the King spake : `` Silence !
let him alone ; he be ever my most trusty John .
Who know for what good end he may have do this thing ? ''
So they go on their way and enter the palace , and there in the hall stand a cupboard in which lay the ready-made bridal shirt , look for all the world a though it be make of gold and silver .
The young King go toward it and be about to take hold of it , but Trusty John , push him aside , seize it with his gloved hand , throw it hastily into the fire , and let it burn The other servant commence grumble again , and say : `` See , he 's actually burn the King 's bridal shirt . ''
But the young King spoke : `` Who know for what good purpose he do it ?
Let him alone , he be my most trusty John . ''
Then the wedding be celebrate , the dance begin , and the bride join in , but Trusty John watch her countenance carefully .
Of a sudden she grow deadly white , and fell to the ground a if she be dead .
He at once sprang hastily toward her , lift her up , and bore her to a room , where he lay her down , and kneel beside her he draw three drop of blood from her right side , and spat them out .
She soon breathe again and come to herself ; but the young King have watch the proceeding , and not know why Trusty John have act a he do , he fly into a passion , and cry : `` Throw him into prison . ''
On the following morning sentence be pass on Trusty John , and he be condemn to be hang .
As he stand on the gallows he say : `` Every one doom to death have the right to speak once before he die ; and I too have that privilege ? ''
`` Yes , '' say the King , `` it shall be grant to you . ''
So Trusty John speak : `` I be unjustly condemn , for I have always be faithful to you '' ; and he proceed to relate how he have hear the raven ' conversation on the sea , and how he have to do all he do in order to save his master .
Then the King cry : `` Oh !
my most trusty John , pardon !
pardon !
Take him down . ''
But a he utter the last word Trusty John have fall lifeless to the ground , and be a stone .
The King and Queen be in despair , and the King spake : `` Ah !
how ill have I reward such great fidelity ! ''
and make them lift up the stone image and place it in his bedroom near his bed .
As often a he look at it he weep and say : `` Oh !
if I could only restore you to life , my most trusty John ! ''
After a time the Queen give birth to twin , two small son , who thrive and grow , and be a constant joy to her .
One day when the Queen be at church , and the two child sit and play with their father , he gaze again full of grief on the stone statue , and sighing , wail : `` Oh , if I could only restore you to life , my most trusty John ! ''
Suddenly the stone begin to speak , and say : `` Yes , you can restore me to life again if you be prepared to sacrifice what you hold most dear . ''
And the King cry out : `` All I have in the world will I give up for your sake . ''
The stone continue : `` If you cut off with your own hand the head of your two child , and smear me with their blood , I shall come back to life . ''
The King be aghast when he hear that he have himself to put his child to death ; but when he think of Trusty John 's fidelity , and how he have even die for him , he draw his sword , and with his own hand cut the head off his child .
And when he have smear the stone with their blood , life come back , and Trusty John stand once more safe and sound before him .
He spake to the King : `` Your loyalty shall be reward , '' and take up the head of the child , he place them on their body , smear the wound with their blood , and in a minute they be all right again and jump about a if nothing have happen .
Then the King be full of joy , and when he saw the Queen come , he hide Trusty John and the two child in a big cupboard .
As she enter he say to her : `` Did you pray in church ? ''
`` Yes , '' she answer , `` but my thought dwell constantly on Trusty John , and of what he have suffer for u . ''
Then he spake : `` Dear wife , we can restore him to life , but the price ask be our two little son ; we must sacrifice them . ''
The Queen grow white and her heart sank , but she reply : `` We owe it to him on account of his great fidelity . ''
Then he rejoice that she be of the same mind a he have be , and go forward he open the cupboard , and fetch the two child and Trusty John out , say : `` God be praise !
Trusty John be free once more , and we have our two small son again . ''
Then he relate to her all that have pass , and they live together happily ever afterward .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Grimm .
THE BRAVE LITTLE TAILOR One summer 's day a little tailor sit on his table by the window in the best of spirit , and sew for dear life .
As he be sit thus a peasant woman come down the street , call out : `` Good jam to sell , good jam to sell . ''
This sound sweetly in the tailor 's ear ; he put his frail little head out of the window , and shout : `` up here , my good woman , and you 'll find a willing customer . ''
The woman climb up the three flight of stair with her heavy basket to the tailor 's room , and he make her spread out all the pot in a row before him .
He examine them all , lift them up and smell them , and say at last : `` This jam seem good , weigh me four ounce of it , my good woman ; and even if it 's a quarter of a pound I wo n't stick at it . ''
The woman , who have hop to find a good market , give him what he want , but go away grumble wrathfully .
`` Now heaven shall bless this jam for my use , '' cry the little tailor , `` and it shall sustain and strengthen me . ''
He fetch some bread out of a cupboard , cut a round off the loaf , and spread the jam on it .
`` That wo n't taste amiss , '' he say ; `` but I 'll finish that waistcoat first before I take a bite . ''
He place the bread beside him , go on sewing , and out of the lightness of his heart keep on make his stitch big and big .
In the meantime the smell of the sweet jam rise to the ceiling , where heap of fly be sit , and attract them to such an extent that they swarm on to it in mass .
`` Ha !
who invite you ? ''
say the tailor , and chase the unwelcome guest away .
But the fly , who do n't understand English , refuse to let themselves be warn off , and return again in even great number .
At last the little tailor , lose all patience , reach out of his chimney corner for a duster , and exclaiming : `` Wait , and I 'll give it to you , '' he beat them mercilessly with it .
When he leave off he count the slain , and no few than seven lay dead before him with outstretched leg .
`` What a desperate fellow I be ! ''
say he , and be fill with admiration at his own courage .
`` The whole town must know about this '' ; and in great haste the little tailor cut out a girdle , hem it , and embroider on it in big letter , `` Seven at a blow . ''
`` What do I say , the town ?
no , the whole world shall hear of it , '' he say ; and his heart beat for joy a a lamb wag his tail .
The tailor strap the girdle round his waist and set out into the wide world , for he consider his workroom too small a field for his prowess .
Before he set forth he look round about him , to see if there be anything in the house he could take with him on his journey ; but he find nothing except an old cheese , which he take possession of .
In front of the house he observe a bird that have be catch in some bush , and this he put into his wallet beside the cheese .
Then he go on his way merrily , and be light and agile he never felt tired .
His way lead up a hill , on the top of which sit a powerful giant , who be calmly survey the landscape .
The little tailor go up to him , and greet him cheerfully say : `` Good-day , friend ; there you sit at your ease view the whole wide world .
I 'm just on my way there .
What do you say to accompany me ? ''
The giant look contemptuously at the tailor , and say : `` What a poor wretched little creature you be ! ''
`` That 's a good joke , '' answer the little tailor , and unbutton his coat he show the giant the girdle .
`` There now , you can read what sort of a fellow I be . ''
The giant read : `` Seven at a blow '' ; and think they be human being the tailor have slain , he conceive a certain respect for the little man .
But first he think he 'd test him , so take up a stone in his hand , he squeeze it till some drop of water run out .
`` Now you do the same , '' say the giant , `` if you really wish to be think strong . ''
`` Is that all ? ''
say the little tailor ; `` that 's child 's play to me , '' so he dive into his wallet , bring out the cheese , and press it till the whey run out .
`` My squeeze be in sooth well than yours , '' say he .
The giant do n't know what to say , for he could n't have believe it of the little fellow .
To prove him again , the giant lift a stone and throw it so high that the eye could hardly follow it .
`` Now , my little pigmy , let me see you do that . ''
`` Well thrown , '' say the tailor ; `` but , after all , your stone fell to the ground ; I 'll throw one that wo n't come down at all . ''
He dive into his wallet again , and grasp the bird in his hand , he throw it up into the air .
The bird , enchant to be free , soar up into the sky , and fly away never to return .
`` Well , what do you think of that little piece of business , friend ? ''
ask the tailor .
`` You can certainly throw , '' say the giant ; `` but now let 's see if you can carry a proper weight . ''
With these word he lead the tailor to a huge oak tree which have be fell to the ground , and say : `` If you be strong enough , help me to carry the tree out of the wood . ''
`` Most certainly , '' say the little tailor : `` just you take the trunk on your shoulder ; I 'll bear the top and branch , which be certainly the heavy part . ''
The giant lay the trunk on his shoulder , but the tailor sit at his ease among the branch ; and the giant , who could n't see what be go on behind him , have to carry the whole tree , and the little tailor into the bargain .
There he sit behind in the best of spirit , lustily whistle a tune , a if carry the tree be mere sport .
The giant , after drag the heavy weight for some time , could get on no further , and shout out : `` Hi !
I must let the tree fall . ''
The tailor sprang nimbly down , seize the tree with both hand a if he have carry it the whole way and say to the giant : `` Fancy a big lout like you not be able to carry a tree ! ''
They continue to go on their way together , and a they pass by a cherry tree the giant grasp the top of it , where the ripe fruit hung , give the branch into the tailor 's hand , and bid him eat .
But the little tailor be far too weak to hold the tree down , and when the giant let go the tree swung back into the air , bear the little tailor with it .
When he have fall to the ground again without hurt himself , the giant say : `` What !
do you mean to tell me you have n't the strength to hold down a feeble twig ? ''
`` It be n't strength that be want , '' reply the tailor ; `` do you think that would have be anything for a man who have kill seven at a blow ?
I jump over the tree because the huntsman be shoot among the branch near u .
Do you do the like if you dare . ''
The giant make an attempt , but could n't get over the tree , and stick fast in the branch , so that here too the little tailor have the good of him .
`` Well , you 're a fine fellow , after all , '' say the giant ; `` come and spend the night with u in our cave . ''
The little tailor willingly consent to do this , and follow his friend they go on till they reach a cave where several other giant be sit round a fire , each hold a roast sheep in his hand , of which he be eat .
The little tailor look about him , and think : `` Yes , there 's certainly more room to turn round in here than in my workshop . ''
The giant show him a bed and bid him lie down and have a good sleep .
But the bed be too big for the little tailor , so he do n't get into it , but creep away into the corner .
At midnight , when the giant think the little tailor be fast asleep , he rise up , and take his big iron walking-stick , he break the bed in two with a blow , and think he have make an end of the little grasshopper .
At early dawn the giant go off to the wood , and quite forget about the little tailor , till all of a sudden they meet him trudge along in the most cheerful manner .
The giant be terrify at the apparition , and , fearful l he should slay them , they all take to their heel a fast a they could .
The little tailor continue to follow his nose , and after he have wander about for a long time he come to the courtyard of a royal palace , and feeling tire he lay down on the grass and fell asleep .
While he lay there the people come , and look him all over read on his girdle : `` Seven at a blow . ''
`` Oh ! ''
they say , `` what can this great hero of a hundred fight want in our peaceful land ?
He must indeed be a mighty man of valor . ''
They go and tell the King about him , and say what a weighty and useful man he 'd be in time of war , and that it would be well to secure him at any price .
This counsel please the King , and he send one of his courtier down to the little tailor , to offer him , when he awake , a commission in their army .
The messenger remain stand by the sleeper , and wait till he stretch his limb and open his eye , when he tender his proposal .
`` That 's the very thing I come here for , '' he answer ; `` I be quite ready to enter the King 's service . ''
So he be receive with all honor , and give a special house of his own to live in .
But the other officer resent the success of the little tailor , and wish him a thousand mile away .
`` What 's to come of it all ? ''
they ask each other ; `` if we quarrel with him , he 'll let out at u , and at every blow seven will fall .
There 'll soon be an end of u . ''
So they resolve to go in a body to the King , and all to send in their paper .
`` We be not make , '' they say , `` to hold out against a man who kill seven at a blow . ''
The King be grieve at the thought of lose all his faithful servant for the sake of one man , and he wish heartily that he have never set eye on him , or that he could get rid of him .
But he do n't dare to send him away , for he fear he might kill him along with his people , and place himself on the throne .
He ponder long and deeply over the matter , and finally come to a conclusion .
He send to the tailor and tell him that , see what a great and warlike hero he be , he be about to make him an offer .
In a certain wood of his kingdom there dwell two giant who do much harm ; by the way they rob , murder , burn , and plunder everything about them ; `` no one could approach them without endanger his life .
But if he could overcome and kill these two giant he should have his only daughter for a wife , and half his kingdom into the bargain ; he might have a hundred horseman , too , to back him up . ''
`` That 's the very thing for a man like me , '' think the little tailor ; `` one do n't get the offer of a beautiful princess and half a kingdom every day . ''
`` Done with you , '' he answer ; `` I 'll soon put an end to the giant .
But I have n't the small need of your hundred horseman ; a fellow who can slay seven men at a blow need not be afraid of two . ''
The little tailor set out , and the hundred horseman follow him .
When he come to the outskirt of the wood he say to his follower : `` You wait here , I 'll manage the giant by myself '' ; and he go on into the wood , cast his sharp little eye right and leave about him .
After a while he spy the two giant lie asleep under a tree , and snore till the very boughs bent with the breeze .
The little tailor lose no time in fill his wallet with stone , and then climb up the tree under which they lay .
When he get to about the middle of it he slip along a branch till he sit just above the sleeper , when he throw down one stone after the other on the near giant .
The giant felt nothing for a long time , but at last he wake up , and pinch his companion say : `` What do you strike me for ? ''
`` I do n't strike you , '' say the other , `` you must be dream . ''
They both lay down to sleep again , and the tailor throw down a stone on the second giant , who spring up and cry : `` What 's that for ?
Why do you throw something at me ? ''
`` I do n't throw anything , '' growl the first one .
They wrangle on for a time , till , a both be tire , they make up the matter and fell asleep again .
The little tailor begin his game once more , and fling the large stone he could find in his wallet with all his force , and hit the first giant on the chest .
`` This be too much of a good thing ! ''
he yell , and spring up like a madman , he knock his companion against the tree till he tremble .
He give , however , as good a he get , and they become so enrage that they tear up tree and beat each other with them , till they both fell dead at once on the ground .
Then the little tailor jump down .
`` It 's a mercy , '' he say , `` that they do n't root up the tree on which I be perch , or I should have have to jump like a squirrel on to another , which , nimble though I be , would have be no easy job . ''
He draw his sword and give each of the giant a very fine thrust or two on the breast , and then go to the horseman and say : `` The deed be do , I 've put an end to the two of them ; but I assure you it have be no easy matter , for they even tear up tree in their struggle to defend themselves ; but all that 's of no use against one who slay seven men at a blow . ''
`` Were n't you wound ? ''
ask the horseman .
`` No fear , '' answer the tailor ; `` they have n't touch a hair of my head . ''
But the horseman would n't believe him till they ride into the wood and find the giant welter in their blood , and the tree lie around , tear up by the root .
The little tailor now demand the promised reward from the King , but he repent his promise , and ponder once more how he could rid himself of the hero .
`` Before you obtain the hand of my daughter and half my kingdom , '' he say to him , `` you must do another deed of valor .
A unicorn be run about loose in the wood , and do much mischief ; you must first catch it . ''
`` I 'm even less afraid of one unicorn than of two giant ; seven at a blow , that 's my motto . ''
He take a piece of cord and an axe with him , go out to the wood , and again tell the men who have be send with him to remain outside .
He have n't to search long , for the unicorn soon pass by , and , on perceive the tailor , dash straight at him a though it be go to spike him on the spot .
`` Gently , gently , '' say he , `` not so fast , my friend '' ; and stand still he wait till the beast be quite near , when he spring lightly behind a tree ; the unicorn ran with all it force against the tree , and ram it horn so firmly into the trunk that it have no strength leave to pull it out again , and be thus successfully capture .
`` Now I 've catch my bird , '' say the tailor , and he come out from behind the tree , place the cord round it neck first , then strike the horn out of the tree with his axe , and when everything be in order lead the beast before the King .
Still the King do n't want to give him the promise reward and make a third demand .
The tailor be to catch a wild boar for him that do a great deal of harm in the wood ; and he might have the huntsman to help him .
`` Willingly , '' say the tailor ; `` that 's mere child 's play . ''
But he do n't take the huntsman into the wood with him , and they be well enough pleased to remain behind , for the wild boar have often receive them in a manner which do not make them desire it further acquaintance .
As soon a the boar perceive the tailor it run at him with foam mouth and gleam teeth , and try to knock him down ; but our alert little friend run into a chapel that stand near , and get out of the window again with a jump .
The boar pursue him into the church , but the tailor skip round to the door , and close it securely .
So the rag beast be catch , for it be far too heavy and unwieldy to spring out of the window .
The little tailor summon the huntsman together , that they might see the prisoner with their own eye .
Then the hero betook himself to the King , who be oblige now , whether he like it or not , to keep his promise , and hand him over his daughter and half his kingdom .
Had he know that no hero-warrior , but only a little tailor stand before him , it would have go even more to his heart .
So the wedding be celebrate with much splendor and little joy , and the tailor become a king .
After a time the Queen hear her husband say one night in his sleep : `` My lad , make that waistcoat and patch these trouser , or I 'll box your ear . ''
Thus she learn in what rank the young gentleman have be bear , and next day she pour forth her woe to her father , and beg him to help her to get rid of a husband who be nothing more nor less than a tailor .
The King comfort her , and say : `` Leave your bedroom door open to-night , my servant shall stand outside , and when your husband be fast asleep they shall enter , bind him fast , and carry him on to a ship , which shall sail away out into the wide ocean . ''
The Queen be well satisfy with the idea , but the armor-bearer , who have overheard everything , be much attach to his young master , go straight to him and reveal the whole plot .
`` I 'll soon put a stop to the business , '' say the tailor .
That night he and his wife go to bed at the usual time ; and when she think he have fall asleep she get up , open the door , and then lay down again .
The little tailor , who have only pretend to be asleep , begin to call out in a clear voice : `` My lad , make that waistcoat and patch those trouser , or I 'll box your ear .
I have kill seven at a blow , slay two giant , lead a unicorn captive , and catch a wild boar , then why should I be afraid of those men stand outside my door ? ''
The men , when they hear the tailor say these word , be so terrify that they flee a if pursue by a wild army , and do n't dare go near him again .
So the little tailor be and remain a king all the day of his life .
A VOYAGE TO LILLIPUT CHAPTER I My father have a small estate in Nottinghamshire , and I be the third of four son .
He send me to Cambridge at fourteen year old , and after study there three year I be bind apprentice to Mr. Bates , a famous surgeon in London .
There , a my father now and then send me small sum of money , I spend them in learn navigation , and other art useful to those who travel , a I always believe it would be some time or other my fortune to do .
Three year after my leave him my good master , Mr. Bates , recommend me a ship 's surgeon to the `` Swallow , '' on which I voyage three year .
When I come back I settle in London , and , have take part of a small house , I marry Miss Mary Burton , daughter of Mr. Edmund Burton , hosier .
But my good master Bates die two year after ; and a I have few friend my business begin to fail , and I determine to go again to sea .
After several voyage , I accept an offer from Captain W. Pritchard , master of the `` Antelope , '' who be make a voyage to the South Sea .
We set sail from Bristol , May 4 , 1699 ; and our voyage at first be very prosperous .
But in our passage to the East Indies we be drive by a violent storm to the north-west of Van Diemen 's Land .
Twelve of our crew die from hard labor and bad food , and the rest be in a very weak condition .
On the 5th of November , the weather be very hazy , the seaman spy a rock within 120 yard of the ship ; but the wind be so strong that we be drive straight upon it , and immediately split .
Six of the crew , of whom I be one , let down the boat , get clear of the ship , and we row about three league , till we could work no longer .
We therefore trust ourselves to the mercy of the wave ; and in about half an hour the boat be upset by a sudden squall .
What become of my companion in the boat , or those who escape on the rock or be leave in the vessel , I can not tell ; but I conclude they be all lose .
For my part , I swim a fortune direct me , and be push forward by wind and tide ; but when I be able to struggle no longer I find myself within my depth .
By this time the storm be much abate .
I reach the shore at last , about eight o'clock in the evening , and advance nearly half a mile inland , but could not discover any sign of inhabitant .
I be extremely tired , and with the heat of the weather I find myself much incline to sleep .
I lay down on the grass , which be very short and soft , and sleep sounder than ever I do in my life for about nine hour .
When I wake , it be just daylight .
I attempt to rise , but could not ; for a I happen to be lie on my back , I find my arm and leg be fasten on each side to the ground ; and my hair , which be long and thick , tie down in the same manner .
I could only look upward .
The sun begin to grow hot , and the light hurt my eye .
I hear a confused noise about me , but could see nothing except the sky .
In a little time I felt something alive and move on my left leg , which , advance gently over my breast , come almost up to my chin , when , bend my eye downward , I perceive it to be a human creature , not six inch high , with a bow and arrow in his hand , and a quiver at his back .
In the meantime I felt at least forty more follow the first .
I be in the utmost astonishment , and roar so loud that they all run back in a fright ; and some of them be hurt with the fall they get by leap from my side upon the ground .
However , they soon return , and one of them , who venture so far a to get a full sight of my face , lift up his hand in admiration .
I lay all this while in great uneasiness ; but at length , struggle to get loose , I succeed in break the string that fasten my left arm to the ground ; and at the same time , with a violent pull that give me extreme pain , I a little loosen the string that tie down my hair , so that I be just able to turn my head about two inch .
But the creature run off a second time before I could seize them , whereupon there be a great shout , and in an instant I felt above a hundred arrow discharge on my left hand , which prick me like so many needle .
Moreover , they shoot another flight into the air , of which some fell on my face , which I immediately cover with my left hand .
When this shower of arrow be over I groan with grief and pain , and then , strive again to get loose , they discharge another flight of arrow large than the first , and some of them try to stab me with their spear ; but by good luck I have on a leather jacket , which they could not pierce .
By this time I think it most prudent to lie still till night , when , my left hand be already loose , I could easily free myself ; and a for the inhabitant , I think I might be a match for the great army they could bring against me if they be all of the same size a him I saw .
When the people observe that I be quiet they discharge no more arrow , but by the noise I hear I know that their number be increase ; and about four yard from me , for more than an hour , there be a knocking , like people at work .
Then , turn my head that way as well a the peg and string would let me , I saw a stage set up , about a foot and a half from the ground , with two or three ladder to mount it .
From this , one of them , who seem to be a person of quality , make me a long speech , of which I could not understand a word , though I could tell from his manner that he sometimes threaten me , and sometimes speak with pity and kindness .
I answer in few word , but in the most submissive manner ; and , be almost famish with hunger , I could not help show my impatience by put my finger frequently to my mouth , to signify that I want food .
He understand me very well , and , descend from the stage , command that several ladder should be set against my side , on which more than a hundred of the inhabitant mount , and walk toward my mouth with basket full of food , which have be send by the King 's order when he first receive tidings of me .
There be leg and shoulder like mutton but small than the wing of a lark .
I eat them two or three at a mouthful , and take three loaf at a time .
They supply me a fast a they could , with a thousand mark of wonder at my appetite .
I then make a sign that I want something to drink .
They guess that a small quantity would not suffice me , and , be a most ingenious people , they sling up one of their large hogshead , then roll it toward my hand , and beat out the top .
I drink it off at a draught , which I might well do , for it do not hold half a pint .
They bring me a second hogshead , which I drink , and make sign for more ; but they have none to give me .
However , I could not wonder enough at the daring of these tiny mortal , who venture to mount and walk upon my body , while one of my hand be free , without tremble at the very sight of so huge a creature a I must have seem to them .
After some time there appear before me a person of high rank from his Imperial Majesty .
His Excellency , have mount my right leg , advance to my face , with about a dozen of his retinue , and speak about ten minute , often point forward , which , a I afterward find , be toward the capital city , about half a mile distant , whither it be command by his Majesty that I should be convey .
I make a sign with my hand that be loose , put it to the other -LRB- but over his Excellency 's head , for fear of hurt him or his train -RRB- , to show that I desire my liberty .
He seem to understand me well enough , for he shake his head , though he make other sign to let me know that I should have meat and drink enough , and very good treatment .
Then I once more thought of attempt to escape ; but when I felt the smart of their arrow on my face and hand , which be all in blister and observe likewise that the number of my enemy increase , I give token to let them know that they might do with me what they please .
Then they daub my face and hand with a sweet-smelling ointment , which in a few minute remove all the smart of the arrow .
The relief from pain and hunger make me drowsy , and presently I fell asleep .
I sleep about eight hour , a I be tell afterward ; and it be no wonder , for the physician , by the Emperor 's order , have mingle a sleep draught in the hogshead of wine .
It seem that , when I be discover sleep on the ground after my landing , the Emperor have early notice of it , and determine that I should be tie in the manner I have relate -LRB- which be do in the night , while I sleep -RRB- , that plenty of meat and drink should be send me , and a machine prepare to carry me to the capital city .
Five hundred carpenter and engineer be immediately set to work to prepare the engine .
It be a frame of wood , raise three inch from the ground , about seven foot long and four wide , move upon twenty-two wheel .
But the difficulty be to place me on it .
Eighty pole be erect for this purpose , and very strong cord fasten to bandage which the workman have tie round my neck , hand , body , and leg .
Nine hundred of the strong men be employ to draw up these cord by pulley fasten on the pole , and in less than three hour I be raise and sling into the engine , and there tie fast .
Fifteen hundred of the Emperor 's large horse , each about four inch and a half high , be then employ to draw me toward the capital .
But while all this be do I still lay in a deep sleep , and I do not wake till four hour after we begin our journey .
The Emperor and all his Court come out to meet u when we reach the capital ; but his great official would not suffer his Majesty to risk his person by mount on my body .
Where the carriage stop there stand an ancient temple , suppose to be the large in the whole kingdom , and here it be determine that I should lodge .
Near the great gate , through which I could easily creep , they fix ninety-one chain , like those which hang to a lady 's watch , which be lock to my left leg with thirty-six padlock ; and when the workman find it be impossible for me to break loose , they cut all the string that bind me .
Then I rise up , feel as melancholy a ever I do in my life .
But the noise and astonishment of the people on see me rise and walk be inexpressible .
The chain that hold my left leg be about two yard long , and give me not only freedom to walk backward and forward in a semicircle , but to creep in and lie at full length inside the temple .
The Emperor , advance toward me from among his courtier , all most magnificently clad , survey me with great admiration , but keep beyond the length of my chain .
He be taller by about the breadth of my nail than any of his Court , which alone be enough to strike awe into the beholder , and graceful and majestic .
The good to behold him , I lay down on my side , so that my face be level with his , and he stand three yard off .
However , I have have him since many time in my hand , and therefore can not be deceive .
His dress be very simple ; but he wear a light helmet of gold , adorn with jewel and a plume .
He hold his sword drawn in his hand , to defend himself if I should break loose ; it be almost three inch long , and the hilt be of gold , enrich with diamond .
His voice be shrill , but very clear .
His Imperial Majesty speak often to me , and I answer ; but neither of u could understand a word .
CHAPTER II After about two hour the Court retire , and I be leave with a strong guard to keep away the crowd , some of whom have have the impudence to shoot their arrow at me a I sit by the door of my house .
But the colonel order six of them to be seize and deliver bound into my hand .
I put five of them into my coat pocket ; and a to the sixth , I make a face a if I would eat him alive .
The poor man scream terribly , and the colonel and his officer be much distress , especially when they saw me take out my penknife .
But I soon set them at ease , for , cut the string he be bind with , I put him gently on the ground , and away he run .
I treat the rest in the same manner , take them one by one out of my pocket ; and I saw that both the soldier and people be delight at this mark of my kindness .
Toward night I get with some difficulty into my house , where I lay on the ground , a I have to do for a fortnight , till a bed be prepare for me out of six hundred bed of the ordinary measure .
Six hundred servant be appoint me , and three hundred tailor make me a suit of clothes .
Moreover , six of his Majesty 's great scholar be employ to teach me their language , so that soon I be able to converse after a fashion with the Emperor , who often honor me with his visit .
The first word I learn be to desire that he would please to give me my liberty , which I every day repeat on my knee ; but he answer that this must be a work of time , and that first I must swear a peace with him and his kingdom .
He tell me also that by the law of the nation I must be search by two of his officer , and that a this could not be do without my help , he trust them in my hand , and whatever they take from me should be return when I leave the country .
I take up the two officer , and put them into my coat pocket .
These gentleman , have pen , ink , and paper about them , make an exact list of everything they saw , which I afterward translate into English , and which run a follow : `` In the right coat pocket of the great Man-Mountain we find only one great piece of coarse cloth , large enough to cover the carpet of your Majesty 's chief room of state .
In the left pocket we saw a huge silver chest , with a silver cover , which we could not lift .
We desire that it should be open , and one of u step into it find himself up to the mid-leg in a sort of dust , some of which fly into our face send u both into a fit of sneezing .
In his right waistcoat pocket we find a number of white thin substance , fold one over another , about the size of three men , tie with a strong cable , and mark with black figure , which we humbly conceive to be writing .
In the left there be a sort of engine , from the back of which extend twenty long pole , with which , we conjecture , the Man-Mountain comb his head .
In the small pocket on the right side be several round flat piece of white and red metal , of different size .
Some of the white , which appear to be silver , be so large and heavy that my comrade and I could hardly lift them .
From another pocket hang a huge silver chain , with a wonderful kind of engine fasten to it , a globe half silver and half of some transparent metal ; for on the transparent side we saw certain strange figure , and think we could touch them till we find our finger stop by the shin substance .
This engine make an incessant noise , like a water-mill , and we conjecture it be either some unknown animal , or the god he worship , but probably the latter , for he tell u that he seldom do anything without consult it .
`` This be a list of what we find about the body of the Man-Mountain , who treat u with great civility . ''
I have one private pocket which escape their search , contain a pair of spectacle and a small spy-glass , which , be of no consequence to the Emperor , I do not think myself bound in honor to discover .
CHAPTER III My gentleness and good behavior gain so far on the Emperor and his Court , and , indeed , on the people in general , that I begin to have hope of get my liberty in a short time .
The native come by degree to be less fearful of danger from me .
I would sometimes lie down and let five or six of them dance on my hand ; and at last the boy and girl venture to come and play at hide-and-seek in my hair .
The horse of the army and of the royal stable be no long shy , have be daily lead before me ; and one of the Emperor 's huntsman , on a large courser , take my foot , shoe and all , which be indeed a prodigious leap .
I amuse the Emperor one day in a very extraordinary manner .
I take nine stick , and fix them firmly in the ground in a square .
Then I take four other stick , and tie them parallel at each corner , about two foot from the ground .
I fasten my handkerchief to the nine stick that stand erect , and extend it on all side till it be as tight a the top of a drum ; and I desire the Emperor to let a troop of his best horse , twenty-four in number , come and exercise upon this plain .
His majesty approve of the proposal , and I take them up one by one , with the proper officer to exercise them .
As soon a they get into order they divide into two party , discharge blunt arrow , draw their sword , flee and pursue , and , in short , show the best military discipline I ever behold .
The parallel stick secure them and their horse from fall off the stage , and the Emperor be so much delight that he order this entertainment to be repeat several day , and persuade the Empress herself to let me hold her in her chair within two yard of the stage , whence she could view the whole performance .
Fortunately no accident happen , only once a fiery horse , paw with his hoof , strike a hole in my handkerchief , and overthrow his rider and himself .
But I immediately relieve them both , and cover the hole with one hand , I set down the troop with the other a I have take them up .
The horse that fell be strain in the shoulder ; but the rider be not hurt , and I repair my handkerchief as well a I could .
However , I would not trust to the strength of it any more in such dangerous enterprise .
I have send so many petition for my liberty that his Majesty at length mention the matter in a full council , where it be oppose by none except Skyresh Bolgolam , admiral of the realm , who be please without any provocation to be my mortal enemy .
However , he agree at length , though he succeed in himself draw up the condition on which I should be set free .
After they be read I be request to swear to perform them in the method prescribe by their law , which be to hold my right foot in my left hand , and to place the middle finger of my right hand on the crown of my head , and my thumb on the top of my right ear .
But I have make a translation of the condition , which I here offer to the public : `` Golbaste Mamarem Evlame Gurdile Shefin Mully Ully Gue , Most Mighty Emperor of Lilliput , delight and terror of the universe , whose dominion extend to the end of the globe , monarch of all monarch , taller than the son of men , whose foot press down to the center , and whose head strike against the sun , at whose nod the prince of the earth shake their knee , pleasant a the spring , comfortable a the summer , fruitful a autumn , dreadful a winter : His Most Sublime Majesty proposeth to the Man-Mountain , lately arrive at our celestial dominion , the following article , which by a solemn oath he shall be oblige to perform : `` First .
The Man-Mountain shall not depart from our dominion without our license under the great seal .
`` Second .
He shall not presume to come into our metropolis without our express order , at which time the inhabitant shall have two hour ' warn to keep within door .
`` Third .
The say Man-Mountain shall confine his walk to our principal high road , and not offer to walk or lie down in a meadow or field of corn .
`` Fourth .
As he walk the say road he shall take the utmost care not to trample upon the body of any of our loving subject , their horse or carriage , nor take any of our subject into his hand without their own consent .
`` Fifth .
If an express require extraordinary speed the Man-Mountain shall be oblige to carry in his pocket the messenger and horse a six day ' journey , and return the say messenger -LRB- if so required -RRB- safe to our imperial presence .
`` Sixth .
He shall be our ally against our enemy in the island of Blefuscu , and do his utmost to destroy their fleet , which be now prepare to invade u .
`` Lastly .
Upon his solemn oath to observe all the above article , the say Man-Mountain shall have a daily allowance of meat and drink sufficient for the support of 1,724 of our subject , with free access to our royal person , and other mark of our favor .
Given at our palace at Belfaburac , the twelfth day of the ninety-first moon of our reign . ''
I swear to these article with great cheerfulness , whereupon my chain be immediately unlocked , and I be at full liberty .
One morning , about a fortnight after I have obtain my freedom , Reldresal , the Emperor 's secretary for private affair , come to my house , attend only by one servant .
He order his coach to wait at a distance , and desire that I would give him an hour 's audience .
I offer to lie down that he might the more conveniently reach my ear ; but he choose rather to let me hold him in my hand during our conversation .
He begin with compliment on my liberty , but he add that , save for the present state of thing at Court , perhaps I might not have obtain it so soon .
`` For , '' he say , `` however flourish we may seem to foreigner , we be in danger of an invasion from the island of Blefuscu , which be the other great empire of the universe , almost a large and as powerful a this of his Majesty .
For as to what we have hear you say , that there be other kingdom in the world , inhabit by human creature as large a yourself , our philosopher be very doubtful , and rather conjecture that you drop from the moon , or one of the star , because a hundred mortal of your size would soon destroy all the fruit and cattle of his Majesty 's dominion .
Besides , our history of six thousand moon make no mention of any other region than the two mighty empire of Lilliput and Blefuscu , which , a I be go to tell you , be engage in a most obstinate war , which begin in the following manner : It be allow on all hand that the primitive way of break egg be upon the large end ; but his present Majesty 's grandfather , while he be a boy , go to eat an egg , and break it accord to the ancient practice , happen to cut one of his finger .
Whereupon the Emperor , his father , make a law command all his subject to break the small end of their egg .
The people so highly resent this law that there have be six rebellion raise on that account , wherein one emperor lose his life , and another his crown .
It be calculate that eleven hundred person have at different time suffer rather than break their egg at the small end .
But these rebel , the Bigendians , have find so much encouragement at the Emperor of Blefuscu 's Court , to which they always flee for refuge , that a bloody war , a I say , have be carry on between the two empire for six-and-thirty moon ; and now the Blefuscudians have equip a large fleet , and be prepare to descend upon u .
Therefore his Imperial Majesty , place great confidence in your valor and strength , have command me to set the case before you . ''
I desire the secretary to present my humble duty to the Emperor , and to let him know that I be ready , at the risk of my life , to defend him against all invader .
CHAPTER IV It be not long before I communicate to his Majesty the plan I form for seize the enemy 's whole fleet .
The Empire of Blefuscu be an island part from Lilliput only by a channel eight hundred yard wide .
I consult the most experienced seaman on the depth of the channel , and they tell me that in the middle , at high water , it be seventy glumguffs -LRB- about six foot of European measure -RRB- .
I walk toward the coast , where , lie down behind a hillock , I take out my spy-glass , and view the enemy 's fleet at anchor -- about fifty men-of-war , and other vessel .
I then come back to my house and give order for a great quantity of the strong cable and bar of iron .
The cable be about as thick a packthread , and the bar of the length and size of a knitting-needle .
I treble the cable to make it strong , and for the same reason twist three of the iron bar together , bend the end into a hook .
Having thus fix fifty hook to a many cable , I go back to the coast , and take off my coat , shoe , and stocking , walk into the sea in my leather jacket about half an hour before high water .
I wad with what haste I could , swim in the middle about thirty yard , till I felt ground , and thus arrive at the fleet in less than half an hour .
The enemy be so frightened when they saw me that they leap out of their ship and swam ashore , where there could not be few than thirty thousand .
Then , fasten a hook to the hole at the prow of each ship , I tie all the cord together at the end .
Meanwhile the enemy discharge several thousand arrow , many of which stuck in my hand and face .
My great fear be for my eye , which I should have lose if I have not suddenly think of the pair of spectacle which have escape the Emperor 's searcher .
These I take out and fastened upon my nose , and thus arm go on with my work in spite of the arrow , many of which struck against the glass of my spectacle , but without any other effect than slightly disturb them .
Then , take the knot in my hand , I begin to pull ; but not a ship would stir , for they be too fast hold by their anchor .
Thus the bold part of my enterprise remain .
Letting go the cord , I resolutely cut with my knife the cable that fasten the anchor , receive more than two hundred shot in my face and hand .
Then I take up again the knotted end of the cable to which my hook be tie , and with great ease draw fifty of the enemy 's large man-of-war after me .
When the Blefuscudians saw the fleet move in order , and me pull at the end , they set up a scream of grief and despair that it be impossible to describe .
When I have get out of danger I stop awhile to pick out the arrow that stick in my hand and face , and rub on some of the same ointment that be give me at my arrival .
I then take off my spectacle , and after wait about an hour , till the tide be a little fallen , I wad on to the royal port of Lilliput .
The Emperor and his whole Court stand on the shore await me .
They saw the ship move forward in a large half-moon , but could not discern me , who , in the middle of the channel , be under water up to my neck .
The Emperor conclude that I be drown , and that the enemy 's fleet be approach in a hostile manner .
But he be soon set at ease , for , the channel grow shallow every step I make , I come in a short time within hearing , and hold up the end of the cable by which the fleet be fasten , I cry in a loud voice : `` Long live the most puissant Emperor of Lilliput ! ''
The Prince receive me at my land with all possible joy , and make me a Nardal on the spot , which be the high title of honor among them .
His Majesty desire that I would take some opportunity to bring all the rest of his enemy 's ship into his port , and seem to think of nothing less than conquer the whole Empire of Blefuscu , and become the sole monarch of the world .
But I plainly protest that I would never be the mean of bring a free and brave people into slavery ; and though the wise of the Ministers be of my opinion , my open refusal be so opposed to his Majesty 's ambition that he could never forgive me .
And from this time a plot begin between himself and those of his Ministers who be my enemy , that nearly end in my utter destruction .
About three week after this exploit there arrive an embassy from Blefuscu , with humble offer of peace , which be soon conclude , on term very advantageous to our Emperor .
There be six ambassador , with a train of about five hundred person , all very magnificent .
Having be privately tell that I have befriend them , they make me a visit , and pay me many compliment on my valor and generosity , invite me to their kingdom in the Emperor their master 's name .
I ask them to present my most humble respect to the Emperor their master , whose royal person I resolve to attend before I return to my own country .
Accordingly , the next time I have the honor to see our Emperor I desire his general permission to visit the Blefuscudian monarch .
This he grant me , but in a very cold manner , of which I afterward learn the reason .
When I be just prepare to pay my respect to the Emperor of Blefuscu , a distinguish person at Court , to whom I have once do a great service , come to my house very privately at night , and without send his name desire admission .
I put his lordship into my coat pocket , and , give order to a trusty servant to admit no one , I fasten the door , place my visitor on the table , and sit down by it .
His lordship 's face be full of trouble ; and he ask me to hear him with patience , in a matter that highly concerned my honor and my life .
`` You be aware , '' he say , `` that Skyresh Bolgolam have be your mortal enemy ever since your arrival , and his hatred be increase since your great success against Blefuscu , by which his glory a admiral be obscure .
This lord and others have accuse you of treason , and several council have be call in the most private manner on your account .
Out of gratitude for your favor I procure information of the whole proceeding , venture my head for your service , and this be the charge against you : `` First , that you , have bring the imperial fleet of Blefuscu into the royal port , be command by his Majesty to seize all the other ship , and put to death all the Bigendian exile , and also all the people of the empire who would not immediately consent to break their egg at the small end .
And that , like a false traitor to his Most Serene Majesty , you excuse yourself from the service on pretence of unwillingness to force the conscience and destroy the liberty and life of an innocent people .
`` Again , when ambassador arrive from the Court of Blefuscu , like a false traitor , you aid and entertain them , though you know them to be servant of a prince lately in open war against his Imperial Majesty .
`` Moreover , you be now prepare , contrary to the duty of a faithful subject , to voyage to the Court of Blefuscu .
`` In the debate on this charge , '' my friend continue , `` his Majesty often urge the service you have do him , while the admiral and treasurer insist that you should be put to a shameful death .
But Reldresal , secretary for private affair , who have always prove himself your friend suggest that if his Majesty would please to spare your life and only give order to put out both your eye , justice might in some measure be satisfy .
At this Bolgolam rise up in fury , wonder how the secretary dare desire to preserve the life of a traitor ; and the treasurer , point out the expense of keep you , also urge your death .
But his Majesty be graciously pleased to say that since the council think the loss of your eye too easy a punishment , some other might afterward be inflict .
And the secretary , humbly desire to be heard again , say that a to expense your allowance might be gradually lessen , so that , for want of sufficient food you should grow weak and faint , and die in a few month , when his Majesty 's subject might cut your flesh from your bone and bury it , leave the skeleton for the admiration of posterity .
`` Thus , through the great friendship of the secretary the affair be arrange .
It be command that the plan of starve you by degree should be keep a secret ; but the sentence of put out your eye be enter on the book .
In three day your friend the secretary will come to your house and read the accusation before you , and point out the great mercy of his Majesty , that only condemn you to the loss of your eye -- which , he do not doubt , you will submit to humbly and gratefully .
Twenty of his Majesty 's surgeon will attend , to see the operation well perform , by discharge very sharp-pointed arrow into the ball of your eye a you lie on the ground .
`` I leave you , '' say my friend , `` to consider what measure you will take ; and , to escape suspicion , I must immediately return , as secretly a I come . ''
His lordship do so ; and I remain alone , in great perplexity .
At first I be bent on resistance ; for while I have liberty I could easily with stone pelt the metropolis to piece ; but I soon reject that idea with horror , remember the oath I have make to the Emperor , and the favor I have receive from him .
At last , have his Majesty 's leave to pay my respect to the Emperor of Blefuscu , I resolve to take this opportunity .
Before the three day have pass I write a letter to my friend the secretary tell him of my resolution ; and , without wait for an answer , go to the coast , and enter the channel , between wad and swim reach the port of Blefuscu , where the people , who have long expect me , lead me to the capital .
His Majesty , with the royal family and great officer of the Court , come out to receive me , and they entertain me in a manner suit to the generosity of so great a prince .
I do not , however , mention my disgrace with the Emperor of Lilliput , since I do not suppose that prince would disclose the secret while I be out of his power .
But in this , it soon appear , I be deceive .
CHAPTER V Three day after my arrival , walk out of curiosity to the northeast coast of the island , I observe at some distance in the sea something that look like a boat overturn .
I pull off my shoe and stocking , and wad two or three hundred yard , I plainly saw it to be a real boat , which I suppose might by some tempest have be drive from a ship .
I return immediately to the city for help , and after a huge amount of labor I manage to get my boat to the royal port of Blefuscu , where a great crowd of people appear , full of wonder at sight of so prodigious a vessel .
I tell the Emperor that my good fortune have throw this boat in my way to carry me to some place whence I might return to my native country , and beg his order for material to fit it up , and leave to depart -- which , after many kindly speech , he be pleased to grant .
Meanwhile the Emperor of Lilliput , uneasy at my long absence -LRB- but never imagine that I have the least notice of his design -RRB- , send a person of rank to inform the Emperor of Blefuscu of my disgrace ; this messenger have order to represent the great mercy of his master , who be content to punish me with the loss of my eye , and who expect that his brother of Blefuscu would have me send back to Lilliput , bound hand and foot , to be punish a a traitor .
The Emperor of Blefuscu answer with many civil excuse .
He say that a for send me bound , his brother know it be impossible .
Moreover , though I have take away his fleet he be grateful to me for many good office I have do him in make the peace .
But that both their Majesties would soon be make easy ; for I have find a prodigious vessel on the shore , able to carry me on the sea , which he have give order to fit up ; and he hop in a few week both empire would be free from me .
With this answer the messenger return to Lilliput ; and I -LRB- though the monarch of Blefuscu secretly offer me his gracious protection if I would continue in his service -RRB- hasten my departure , resolve never more to put confidence in prince .
In about a month I be ready to take leave .
The Emperor of Blefuscu , with the Empress and the royal family , come out of the palace ; and I lay down on my face to kiss their hand , which they graciously give me .
His Majesty present me with fifty purse of sprugs -LRB- their great gold coin -RRB- and his picture at full length , which I put immediately into one of my glove , to keep it from be hurt .
Many other ceremony take place at my departure .
I store the boat with meat and drink , and take six cow and two bull alive , with a many ewe and ram , intend to carry them into my own country ; and to fee them on board , I have a good bundle of hay and a bag of corn .
I would gladly have take a dozen of the native ; but this be a thing the Emperor would by no mean permit , and besides a diligent search into my pocket , his Majesty pledge my honor not to carry away any of his subject , though with their own consent and desire .
Having thus prepare all thing as well a I be able , I set sail .
When I have make twenty-four league , by my reckoning , from the island of Blefuscu , I saw a sail steer to the northeast .
I hail her , but could get no answer ; yet I find I gain upon her , for the wind slacken ; and in half an hour she spy me , and discharge a gun .
I come up with her between five and six in the evening , Sept. 26 , 1701 ; but my heart leap within me to see her English color .
I put my cow and sheep into my coat pocket , and get on board with all my little cargo .
The captain receive me with kindness , and ask me to tell him what place I come from last ; but at my answer he think I be rave .
However , I take my black cattle and sheep out of my pocket , which , after great astonishment , clearly convince him .
We arrive in England on the 13th of April , 1702 .
I stay two month with my wife and family ; but my eager desire to see foreign country would suffer me to remain no longer .
However , while in England I make great profit by show my cattle to person of quality and others ; and before I begin my second voyage I sell them for 600_l .
I leave 1500_l .
with my wife , and fix her in a good house ; then take leave of her and my boy and girl , with tear on both side , I sail on board the `` Adventure . ''
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Swift .
THE PRINCESS ON THE GLASS HILL Once upon a time there be a man who have a meadow which lay on the side of a mountain , and in the meadow there be a barn in which he store hay .
But there have not be much hay in the barn for the last two year , for every St. John 's eve , when the grass be in the height of it vigor , it be all eaten clean up , just a if a whole flock of sheep have gnaw it down to the ground during the night .
This happen once , and it happen twice , but then the man get tired of lose his crop , and say to his son -- he have three of them , and the third be call Cinderlad -- that one of them must go and sleep in the barn on St. John 's night , for it be absurd to let the grass be eat up again , blade and stalk , a it have be the last two year , and the one who go to watch must keep a sharp look-out , the man say .
The eldest be quite willing to go to the meadow ; he would watch the grass , he say , and he would do it so well that neither man , nor beast , nor even the devil himself should have any of it .
So when evening come he go to the barn , and lay down to sleep , but when night be draw near there be such a rumbling and such an earthquake that the wall and roof shook again , and the lad jump up and take to his heel a fast a he could , and never even look back , and the barn remain empty that year just a it have be for the last two .
Next St. John 's eve the man again say that he could not go on in this way , lose all the grass in the outlying field year after year , and that one of his son must just go there and watch it , and watch well too .
So the next old son be willing to show what he could do .
He go to the barn and lay down to sleep , a his brother have do ; but when night be draw near there be a great rumbling , and then an earthquake , which be even bad than that on the former St. John 's night , and when the youth hear it he be terrify , and go off , run a if for a wager .
The year after , it be Cinderlad 's turn , but when he make ready to go the others laugh at him , and mock him .
`` Well , you be just the right one to watch the hay , you who have never learn anything but how to sit among the ash and bake yourself ! ''
say they .
Cinderlad , however , do not trouble himself about what they say , but when even draw near ramble away to the outlying field .
When he get there he go into the barn and lay down , but in about an hour 's time the rumbling and creaking begin , and it be frightful to hear it .
`` Well , if it get no bad than that , I can manage to stand it , '' think Cinderlad .
In a little time the creaking begin again , and the earth quake so that all the hay fly about the boy .
`` Oh !
if it get no bad than that I can manage to stand it , '' think Cinderlad .
But then come a third rumbling , and a third earthquake , so violent that the boy think the wall and roof have fall down , but when that be over everything suddenly grow as still a death around him .
`` I be pretty sure that it will come again , '' think Cinderlad ; but no , it do not .
Everything be quiet , and everything stay quiet , and when he have lain still a short time he hear something that sound a if a horse be stand chew just outside the barn door .
He steal away to the door , which be ajar , to see what be there , and a horse be stand eating .
It be so big , and fat , and fine a horse that Cinderlad have never see one like it before , and a saddle and bridle lay upon it , and a complete suit of armor for a knight , and everything be of copper , and so bright that it shine again .
`` Ha , ha !
it be thou who eatest up our hay then , '' think the boy ; `` but I will stop that . ''
So he make haste , and take out his steel for strike fire , and throw it over the horse , and then it have no power to stir from the spot , and become so tame that the boy could do what he like with it .
So he mount it and ride away to a place which no one knew of but himself , and there he tie it up .
When he go home again his brother laugh and ask how he have get on .
`` You do n't lie long in the barn , if even you have be so far a the field ! ''
say they .
`` I lay in the barn till the sun rise , but I saw nothing and heard nothing , not I , '' say the boy .
`` God know what there be to make you two so frightened . ''
`` Well , we shall soon see whether you have watch the meadow or not , '' answer the brother , but when they get there the grass be all stand just a long and as thick a it have be the night before .
The next St. John 's eve it be the same thing , once again : neither of the two brother dare to go to the outlying field to watch the crop , but Cinderlad go , and everything happen exactly the same a on the previous St. John 's eve : first there be a rumbling and an earthquake , and then there be another , and then a third : but all three earthquake be much , very much more violent than they have be the year before .
Then everything become still a death again , and the boy heard something chew outside the barn door , so he steal as softly a he could to the door , which be slightly ajar , and again there be a horse stand close by the wall of the house , eat and chewing , and it be far large and fatter than the first horse , and it have a saddle on it back , and a bridle be on it too , and a full suit of armor for a knight , all of bright silver , and as beautiful a anyone could wish to see .
`` Ho , ho ! ''
think the boy , `` be it thou who eatest up our hay in the night ?
but I will put a stop to that . ''
So he take out his steel for strike fire , and throw it over the horse 's mane , and the beast stand there as quiet a a lamb .
Then the boy rode this horse , too , away to the place where he keep the other , and then go home again .
`` I suppose you will tell u that you have watch well again this time , '' say the brother .
`` Well , so I have , '' say Cinderlad .
So they go there again , and there the grass be , stand as high and as thick a it have be before , but that do not make them any kinder to Cinderlad .
When the third St. John 's night come neither of the two elder brother dare to lie in the outlying barn to watch the grass , for they have be so heartily frighten the night that they have sleep there that they could not get over it , but Cinderlad dare to go , and everything happen just the same a on the two former night .
There be three earthquake , each bad than the other , and the last flung the boy from one wall of the barn to the other , but then everything suddenly become still a death .
When he have lie quietly a short time , he hear something chew outside the barn door ; then he once more stole to the door , which be slightly ajar , and behold , a horse be stand just outside it , which be much large and fatter than the two others he have catch .
`` Ho , ho !
it be thou , then , who art eat up our hay this time , '' think the boy ; `` but I will put a stop to that . ''
So he pull out his steel for strike fire , and throw it over the horse , and it stand as still a if it have be nail to the field , and the boy could do just what he like with it .
Then he mount it and ride away to the place where he have the two others , and then he go home again .
Then the two brother mock him just a they have do before , and tell him that they could see that he must have watch the grass very carefully that night , for he look just a if he be walk in his sleep ; but Cinderlad do not trouble himself about that , but just bid them go to the field and see .
They do go , and this time too the grass be stand , look a fine and as thick a ever .
The King of the country in which Cinderlad 's father dwelt have a daughter whom he would give to no one who could not ride up to the top of the glass hill , for there be a high , high hill of glass , slippery a ice , and it be close to the King 's palace .
Upon the very top of this the King 's daughter be to sit with three gold apple in her lap , and the man who could ride up and take the three golden apple should marry her , and have half the kingdom .
The King have this proclaim in every church in the whole kingdom , and in many other kingdom too .
The Princess be very beautiful , and all who saw her fell violently in love with her , even in spite of themselves .
So it be needless to say that all the prince and knight be eager to win her , and half the kingdom besides , and that for this cause they come rid thither from the very end of the world , dress so splendidly that their raiment gleam in the sunshine , and rid on horse which seem to dance a they go , and there be not one of these prince who do not think that he be sure to win the Princess .
When the day appoint by the King have come , there be such a host of knight and prince under the glass hill that they seem to swarm , and everyone who could walk or even creep be there too , to see who win the King 's daughter .
Cinderlad 's two brother be there too , but they would not hear of let him go with them , for he be so dirty and black with sleep and grub among the ash that they say everyone would laugh at them if they be see in the company of such an oaf .
`` Well , then , I will go all alone by myself , '' say Cinderlad .
When the two brother get to the glass hill , all the prince and knight be try to ride up it , and their horse be in a foam ; but it be all in vain , for no sooner do the horse set foot upon the hill than down they slip , and there be not one which could get even so much a a couple of yard up .
Nor be that strange , for the hill be as smooth a a glass window-pane , and as steep a the side of a house .
But they be all eager to win the King 's daughter and half the kingdom , so they ride and they slip , and thus it go on .
At length all the horse be so tired that they could do no more , and so hot that the foam drop from them and the rider be force to give up the attempt .
The King be just think that he would cause it to be proclaim that the riding should begin afresh on the following day , when perhaps it might go well , when suddenly a knight come rid up on so fine a horse that no one have ever see the like of it before , and the knight have armor of copper , and his bridle be of copper too , and all his accoutrement be so bright that they shine again .
The other knight all call out to him that he might just as well spare himself the trouble of try to ride up the glass hill , for it be of no use to try ; but he do not heed them , and ride straight off to it , and go up a if it be nothing at all .
Thus he ride for a long way -- it may have be a third part of the way up -- but when he have get so far he turn his horse round and ride down again .
But the Princess think that she have never yet see so handsome a knight , and while he be rid up she be sit thinking , `` Oh !
how I hope he may be able to come up to the top ! ''
And when she saw that he be turn his horse back she throw one of the golden apple down after him , and it roll into his shoe .
But when he have come down from off the hill he ride away , and that so fast that no one know what have become of him .
So all the prince and knight be bid to present themselves before the King that night , so that he who have ride so far up the glass hill might show the golden apple which the King 's daughter have throw down .
But no one have anything to show .
One knight present himself after the other , and none could show the apple .
At night , too , Cinderlad 's brother come home again and have a long story to tell about rid up the glass hill .
At first , they say , there be not one who be able to get even so much a one step up , but then come a knight who have armor of copper , and a bridle of copper , and his armor and trapping be so bright that they shine to a great distance , and it be something like a sight to see him rid .
He ride one-third of the way up the glass hill , and he could easily have ride the whole of it if he have like ; but he have turn back , for he have make up his mind that that be enough for once .
`` Oh !
I should have like to see him too , that I should , '' say Cinderlad , who be a usual sitting by the chimney among the cinder .
`` You , indeed ! ''
say the brother , `` you look a if you be fit to be among such great lord , nasty beast that you be to sit there ! ''
Next day the brother be for set out again , and this time too Cinderlad beg them to let him go with them and see who ride ; but no , they say he be not fit to do that , for he be much too ugly and dirty .
`` Well , well , then I will go all alone by myself , '' say Cinderlad .
So the brother go to the glass hill , and all the prince and knight begin to ride again , and this time they have take care to roughen the shoe of their horse ; but that do not help them : they ride and they slip a they have do the day before , and not one of them could get even so far a a yard up the hill .
When they have tire out their horse , so that they could do no more , they again have to stop altogether .
But just a the King be think that it would be well to proclaim that the riding should take place next day for the last time , so that they might have one more chance , he suddenly bethink himself that it would be well to wait a little long to see if the knight in copper armor would come on this day too .
But nothing be to be see of him .
Just a they be still look for him , however , come a knight rid on a steed that be much , much fine than that which the knight in copper armor have ride , and this knight have silver armor and a silver saddle and bridle , and all be so bright that they shine and glisten when he be a long way off .
Again the other knight call to him , and say that he might just as well give up the attempt to ride up the glass hill , for it be useless to try ; but the knight pay no heed to that , but ride straight away to the glass hill , and go still far up than the knight in copper armor have go ; but when he have ride two-thirds of the way up he turn his horse around , and ride down again .
The Princess like this knight still well than she have like the other , and sit longing that he might be able to get up above , and when she saw him turn back she throw the second apple after him , and it roll into his shoe , and as soon a he have get down the glass hill he ride away so fast that no one could see what have become of him .
In the evening , when everyone be to appear before the King and Princess , in order that he who have the golden apple might show it , one knight go in after the other , but none of them have a golden apple to show .
At night the two brother go home a they have do the night before , and tell how thing have go , and how everyone have ride , but no one have be able to get up the hill .
`` But last of all , '' they say , `` come one in silver armor , and he have a silver bridle on his horse , and a silver saddle , and oh , but he could ride !
He take his horse two-thirds of the way up the hill , but then he turn back .
He be a fine fellow , '' say the brother , `` and the Princess throw the second golden apple to him ! ''
`` Oh , how I should have like to see him too ! ''
say Cinderlad .
`` Oh , indeed !
He be a little brighter than the ash that you sit grub among , you dirty black creature ! ''
say the brother .
On the third day everything go just a on the former day .
Cinderlad want to go with them to look at the riding , but the two brother would not have him in their company , and when they get to the glass hill there be no one who could ride even so far a a yard up it , and everyone wait for the knight in silver armor , but he be neither to be see nor hear of .
At last , after a long time , come a knight rid upon a horse that be such a fine one , it equal have never yet be see .
The knight have golden armor , and the horse a golden saddle and bridle , and these be all so bright that they shine and dazzle everyone , even while the knight be still at a great distance .
The other prince and knight be not able even to call to tell him how useless it be to try to ascend the hill , so amaze be they at sight of his magnificence .
He ride straight away to the glass hill , and gallop up it a if it be no hill at all , so that the Princess have not even time to wish that he might get up the whole way .
As soon a he have ride to the top , he take the third golden apple from the lap of the Princess and then turn his horse about and ride down again , and vanish from their sight before anyone be able to say a word to him .
When the two brother come home again at night they have much to tell of how the riding have go off that day , and at last they tell about the knight in the golden armor too .
`` He be a fine fellow , that be !
Such another splendid knight be not to be find on earth ! ''
say the brother .
`` Oh , how I should have like to see him too ! ''
say Cinderlad .
`` Well , he shine nearly as brightly a the coal-heaps that thou art always lie rake among , dirty black creature that thou art ! ''
say the brother .
Next day all the knight and prince be to appear before the King and Princess -- it have be too late for them to do it the night before -- in order that he who have the golden apple might produce it .
They all go in turn , first prince , and then knight , but none of them have a golden apple .
`` But somebody must have it , '' say the King , `` for with our own eye we all saw a man ride up and take it . ''
So he command that everyone in the kingdom should come to the palace , and see if he could show the apple .
And one after the other they all come , but no one have the golden apple , and after a long , long time Cinderlad 's two brother come likewise .
They be the last of all , so the King inquired of them if there be no one else in the kingdom leave to come .
`` Oh !
yes , we have a brother , '' say the two , `` but he never get the golden apple !
He never leave the cinder-heap on any of the three day . ''
`` Never mind that , '' say the King ; `` a everyone else have come to the palace , let him come too . ''
So Cinderlad be force to go to the King 's palace .
`` Hast thou the golden apple ? ''
ask the King .
`` Yes , here be the first , and here be the second , and here be the third , too , '' say Cinderlad , and he take all three apple out of his pocket , and with that draw off his sooty rag , and appear there before them in his bright golden armor , which gleam a he stand .
`` Thou shalt have my daughter , and the half of my kingdom , and thou hast well earn both ! ''
say the King .
So there be a wedding , and Cinderlad get the King 's daughter , and everyone make merry at the wedding , for all of them could make merry , though they could not ride up the glass hill , and if they have not leave off their merry-making they must be at it still .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Asbjornsen and Moe .
THE STORY OF PRINCE AHMED AND THE FAIRY PARIBANOU There be a sultan , who have three son and a niece .
The eldest of the Princes be call Houssain , the second Ali , the young Ahmed , and the Princess , his niece , Nouronnihar .
The Princess Nouronnihar be the daughter of the young brother of the Sultan , who die , and leave the Princess very young .
The Sultan take upon himself the care of his daughter 's education , and bring her up in his palace with the three Princes , propose to marry her when she arrive at a proper age , and to contract an alliance with some neighboring prince by that mean .
But when he perceive that the three Princes , his son , love her passionately , he think more seriously on that affair .
He be very much concern ; the difficulty he foresee be to make them agree , and that the two young should consent to yield her up to their elder brother .
As he find them positively obstinate , he send for them all together , and say to them : `` Children , since for your good and quiet I have not be able to persuade you no longer to aspire to the Princess , your cousin , I think it would not be amiss if every one travel separately into different country , so that you might not meet each other .
And , a you know I be very curious , and delight in everything that 's singular , I promise my niece in marriage to him that shall bring me the most extraordinary rarity ; and for the purchase of the rarity you shall go in search after , and the expense of travel , I will give you every one a sum of money . ''
As the three Princes be always submissive and obedient to the Sultan 's will , and each flatter himself fortune might prove favorable to him , they all consent to it .
The Sultan pay them the money he promise them ; and that very day they give order for the preparation for their travel , and take their leave of the Sultan , that they might be the more ready to go the next morning .
Accordingly they all set out at the same gate of the city , each dress like a merchant , attend by an officer of confidence dress like a slave , and all well mount and equip .
They go the first day 's journey together , and lay all at an inn , where the road be divide into three different tract .
At night , when they be at supper together , they all agree to travel for a year , and to meet at that inn ; and that the first that come should wait for the rest ; that , a they have all three take their leave together of the Sultan , they might all return together .
The next morning by break of day , after they have embrace and wish each other good success , they mount their horse and take each a different road .
Prince Houssain , the eldest brother , arrive at Bisnagar , the capital of the kingdom of that name , and the residence of it king .
He go and lodge at a khan appoint for foreign merchant ; and , have learn that there be four principal division where merchant of all sort sell their commodity , and keep shop , and in the midst of which stand the castle , or rather the King 's palace , he go to one of these division the next day .
Prince Houssain could not view this division without admiration .
It be large , and divide into several street , all vault and shade from the sun , and yet very light too .
The shop be all of a size , and all that dealt in the same sort of good live in one street ; a also the handicrafts-men , who keep their shop in the small street .
The multitude of shop , stock with all sort of merchandise , a the fine linen from several part of India , some paint in the most lively color , and represent beast , tree , and flower ; silk and brocade from Persia , China , and other place , porcelain both from Japan and China , and tapestry , surprise him so much that he know not how to believe his own eye ; but when he come to the goldsmith and jeweler he be in a kind of ecstacy to behold such prodigious quantity of wrought gold and silver , and be dazzle by the lustre of the pearl , diamond , ruby , emerald , and other jewel expose to sale .
Another thing Prince Houssain particularly admire be the great number of rose-sellers who crowd the street ; for the Indians be so great lover of that flower that no one will stir without a nosegay in his hand or a garland on his head ; and the merchant keep them in pot in their shop , that the air be perfectly perfume .
After Prince Houssain have run through that division , street by street , his thought fully employ on the rich he have see , he be very much tire , which a merchant perceiving , civilly invite him to sit down in his shop , and he accept ; but have not be sit down long before he saw a crier pas by with a piece of tapestry on his arm , about six foot square , and cry at thirty purse .
The Prince call to the crier , and ask to see the tapestry , which seem to him to be value at an exorbitant price , not only for the size of it , but the meanness of the stuff ; when he have examine it well , he tell the crier that he could not comprehend how so small a piece of tapestry , and of so indifferent appearance , could be set at so high a price .
The crier , who take him for a merchant , reply : `` If this price seem so extravagant to you , your amazement will be great when I tell you I have order to raise it to forty purse , and not to part with it under . ''
`` Certainly , '' answer Prince Houssain , `` it must have something very extraordinary in it , which I know nothing of . ''
`` You have guess it , sir , '' reply the crier , `` and will own it when you come to know that whoever sit on this piece of tapestry may be transport in an instant wherever he desire to be , without be stop by any obstacle . ''
At this discourse of the crier the Prince of the Indies , consider that the principal motive of his travel be to carry the Sultan , his father , home some singular rarity , think that he could not meet with any which could give him more satisfaction .
`` If the tapestry , '' say he to the crier , `` have the virtue you assign it , I shall not think forty purse too much , but shall make you a present besides . ''
`` Sir , '' reply the crier , `` I have tell you the truth ; and it be an easy matter to convince you of it , as soon a you have make the bargain for forty purse , on condition I show you the experiment .
But , a I suppose you have not so much about you , and to receive them I must go with you to your khan , where you lodge , with the leave of the master of the shop , we will go into the back shop , and I will spread the tapestry ; and when we have both sit down , and you have form the wish to be transport into your apartment of the khan , if we be not transport thither it shall be no bargain , and you shall be at your liberty .
As to your present , though I be pay for my trouble by the seller , I shall receive it a a favor , and be very much oblige to you , and thankful . ''
On the credit of the crier , the Prince accept the condition , and conclude the bargain ; and , have get the master 's leave , they go into his back shop ; they both sit down on it , and as soon a the Prince form his wish to be transport into his apartment at the khan he presently find himself and the crier there ; and , a he want not a more sufficient proof of the virtue of the tapestry , he count the crier out forty piece of gold , and give him twenty piece for himself .
In this manner Prince Houssain become the possessor of the tapestry , and be overjoy that at his arrival at Bisnagar he have find so rare a piece , which he never dispute would gain him the hand of Nouronnihar .
In short , he look upon it a an impossible thing for the Princes his young brother to meet with anything to be compare with it .
It be in his power , by sit on his tapestry , to be at the place of meeting that very day ; but , a he be oblige to stay there for his brother , a they have agree , and a he be curious to see the King of Bisnagar and his Court , and to inform himself of the strength , law , custom , and religion of the kingdom , he choose to make a longer abode there , and to spend some month in satisfy his curiosity .
Prince Houssain might have make a longer abode in the kingdom and Court of Bisnagar , but he be so eager to be nearer the Princess that , spread the tapestry , he and the officer he have bring with him sit down , and as soon a he have form his wish be transport to the inn at which he and his brother be to meet , and where he pass for a merchant till they come .
Prince Ali , Prince Houssain 's second brother , who design to travel into Persia , take the road , have three day after he part with his brother join a caravan , and after four day ' travel arrive at Schiraz , which be the capital of the kingdom of Persia .
Here he pass for a jeweler .
The next morning Prince Ali , who travel only for his pleasure , and have bring nothing but just necessary along with him , after he have dress himself , take a walk into that part of the town which they at Schiraz call the bezestein .
Among all the crier who pass backward and forward with several sort of good , offer to sell them , he be not a little surprised to see one who hold an ivory telescope in his hand of about a foot in length and the thickness of a man 's thumb , and cry it at thirty purse .
At first he think the crier mad , and to inform himself go to a shop , and say to the merchant , who stand at the door : `` Pray , sir , be not that man '' -LRB- point to the crier who cry the ivory perspective glass at thirty purse -RRB- `` mad ?
If he be not , I be very much deceive . ''
`` Indeed , sir , '' answer the merchant , `` he be in his right sens yesterday ; I can assure you he be one of the able crier we have , and the most employed of any when anything valuable be to be sell .
And if he cry the ivory perspective glass at thirty purse it must be worth a much or more , on some account or other .
He will come by presently , and we will call him , and you shall be satisfy ; in the meantime sit down on my sofa , and rest yourself . ''
Prince Ali accept the merchant 's obliging offer , and presently afterward the crier pass by .
The merchant call him by his name , and , point to the Prince , say to him : `` Tell that gentleman , who ask me if you be in your right sens , what you mean by cry that ivory perspective glass , which seem not to be worth much , at thirty purse .
I should be very much amaze myself if I do not know you . ''
The crier , address himself to Prince Ali , say : `` Sir , you be not the only person that take me for a madman on account of this perspective glass .
You shall judge yourself whether I be or no , when I have tell you it property and I hope you will value it at as high a price a those I have show it to already , who have a bad an opinion of me a you .
`` First , sir , '' pursue the crier , present the ivory pipe to the Prince , `` observe that this pipe be furnish with a glass at both end ; and consider that by look through one of them you see whatever object you wish to behold . ''
`` I be , '' say the Prince , `` ready to make you all imaginable reparation for the scandal I have throw on you if you will make the truth of what you advance appear , '' and a he have the ivory pipe in his hand , after he have look at the two glass he say : `` Show me at which of these end I must look that I may be satisfy . ''
The crier presently show him , and he look through , wish at the same time to see the Sultan his father , whom he immediately behold in perfect health , set on his throne , in the midst of his council .
Afterward , a there be nothing in the world so dear to him , after the Sultan , a the Princess Nouronnihar , he wish to see her ; and saw her at her toilet laughing , and in a pleasant humor , with her woman about her .
Prince Ali want no other proof to be persuade that this perspective glass be the most valuable thing in the world , and believe that if he should neglect to purchase it he should never meet again with such another rarity .
He therefore take the crier with him to the khan where he lodge , and count him out the money , and receive the perspective glass .
Prince Ali be overjoy at his bargain , and persuade himself that , a his brother would not be able to meet with anything so rare and admirable , the Princess Nouronnihar would be the recompense of his fatigue and trouble ; that he think of nothing but visit the Court of Persia incognito , and see whatever be curious in Schiraz and thereabouts , till the caravan with which he come return back to the Indies .
As soon a the caravan be ready to set out , the Prince join them , and arrive happily without any accident or trouble , otherwise than the length of the journey and fatigue of travel , at the place of rendezvous , where he find Prince Houssain , and both wait for Prince Ahmed .
Prince Ahmed , who take the road of Samarcand , the next day after his arrival there go , a his brother have do , into the bezestein , where he have not walk long but hear a crier , who have an artificial apple in his hand , cry it at five and thirty purse ; upon which he stop the crier , and say to him : `` Let me see that apple , and tell me what virtue and extraordinary property it have , to be value at so high a rate . ''
`` Sir , '' say the crier , give it into his hand , `` if you look at the outside of this apple , it be very worthless , but if you consider it property , virtue , and the great use and benefit it be to mankind , you will say it be no price for it , and that he who possess it be master of a great treasure .
In short , it cure all sick person of the most mortal disease ; and if the patient be die it will recover him immediately and restore him to perfect health ; and this be do after the easy manner in the world , which be by the patient 's smell the apple . ''
`` If I may believe you , '' reply Prince Ahmed , `` the virtue of this apple be wonderful , and it be invaluable ; but what ground have I , for all you tell me , to be persuade of the truth of this matter ? ''
`` Sir , '' reply the crier , `` the thing be know and aver by the whole city of Samarcand ; but , without go any further , ask all these merchant you see here , and hear what they say .
You will find several of them will tell you they have not be alive this day if they have not make use of this excellent remedy .
And , that you may better comprehend what it be , I must tell you it be the fruit of the study and experiment of a celebrated philosopher of this city , who apply himself all his lifetime to the study and knowledge of the virtue of plant and mineral , and at last attained to this composition , by which he perform such surprising cure in this town as will never be forget , but die suddenly himself , before he could apply his sovereign remedy , and leave his wife and a great many young child behind him , in very indifferent circumstance , who , to support her family and provide for her child , be resolve to sell it . ''
While the crier inform Prince Ahmed of the virtue of the artificial apple , a great many person come about them and confirm what he say ; and one among the rest say he have a friend dangerously ill , whose life be despair of ; and that be a favorable opportunity to show Prince Ahmed the experiment .
Upon which Prince Ahmed tell the crier he would give him forty purse if he cure the sick person .
The crier , who have order to sell it at that price , say to Prince Ahmed : `` Come , sir , let u go and make the experiment , and the apple shall be yours ; and I can assure you that it will always have the desired effect . ''
In short , the experiment succeed , and the Prince , after he have count out to the crier forty purse , and he have deliver the apple to him , wait patiently for the first caravan that should return to the Indies , and arrive in perfect health at the inn where the Princes Houssain and Ali wait for him .
When the Princes meet they show each other their treasure , and immediately saw through the glass that the Princess be die .
They then sit down on the carpet , wish themselves with her , and be there in a moment .
Prince Ahmed no sooner perceive himself in Nouronnihar 's chamber than he rise off the tapestry , a do also the other two Princes , and go to the bedside , and put the apple under her nose ; some moment after the Princess open her eye , and turn her head from one side to another , look at the person who stand about her ; and then rise up in the bed , and ask to be dress , just a if she have wake out of a sound sleep .
Her woman have presently inform her , in a manner that show their joy , that she be oblige to the three Princes for the sudden recovery of her health , and particularly to Prince Ahmed , she immediately express her joy to see them , and thank them all together , and afterward Prince Ahmed in particular .
While the Princess be dress the Princes go to throw themselves at the Sultan their father 's foot , and pay their respect to him .
But when they come before him they find he have be inform of their arrival by the chief of the Princess 's eunuch , and by what mean the Princess have be perfectly cure .
The Sultan receive and embrace them with the great joy , both for their return and the recovery of the Princess his niece , whom he love as well a if she have be his own daughter , and who have be give over by the physician .
After the usual ceremony and compliment the Princes present each his rarity : Prince Houssain his tapestry , which he have take care not to leave behind him in the Princess 's chamber ; Prince Ali his ivory perspective glass , and Prince Ahmed his artificial apple ; and after each have commend their present , when they put it into the Sultan 's hand , they beg of him to pronounce their fate , and declare to which of them he would give the Princess Nouronnihar for a wife , accord to his promise .
The Sultan of the Indies , have hear , without interrupt them , all that the Princes could represent far about their rarity , and be well inform of what have happen in relation to the Princess Nouronnihar 's cure , remain some time silent , a if he be think on what answer he should make .
At last he break the silence , and say to them : `` I would declare for one of you child with a great deal of pleasure if I could do it with justice ; but consider whether I can do it or no .
'T be true , Prince Ahmed , the Princess my niece be oblige to your artificial apple for her cure ; but I must ask you whether or no you could have be so serviceable to her if you have not know by Prince Ali 's perspective glass the danger she be in , and if Prince Houssain 's tapestry have not bring you so soon .
Your perspective glass , Prince Ali , inform you and your brother that you be like to lose the Princess your cousin , and there you must own a great obligation .
`` You must also grant that that knowledge would have be of no service without the artificial apple and the tapestry .
And lastly , Prince Houssain , the Princess would be very ungrateful if she should not show her acknowledgment of the service of your tapestry , which be so necessary a mean toward her cure .
But consider , it would have be of little use if you have not be acquaint with the Princess 's illness by Prince Ali 's glass , and Prince Ahmed have not apply his artificial apple .
Therefore , a neither tapestry , ivory perspective glass , nor artificial apple have the least preference one before the other , but , on the contrary , there 's a perfect equality , I can not grant the Princess to any one of you ; and the only fruit you have reap from your travel be the glory of have equally contribute to restore her health .
`` If all this be true , '' add the Sultan , `` you see that I must have recourse to other mean to determine certainly in the choice I ought to make among you ; and that , a there be time enough between this and night , I 'll do it to-day .
Go and get each of you a bow and arrow , and repair to the great plain , where they exercise horse .
I 'll soon come to you , and declare I will give the Princess Nouronnihar to him that shoot the farthest . ''
The three Princes have nothing to say against the decision of the Sultan .
When they be out of his presence they each provide themselves with a bow and arrow , which they deliver to one of their officer , and go to the plain appoint , follow by a great concourse of people .
The Sultan do not make them wait long for him , and as soon a he arrive Prince Houssain , a the eldest , take his bow and arrow and shot first ; Prince Ali shot next , and much beyond him ; and Prince Ahmed last of all , but it so happen that nobody could see where his arrow fell ; and , notwithstanding all the diligence that be use by himself and everybody else , it be not to be find far or near .
And though it be believe that he shoot the farthest , and that he therefore deserve the Princess Nouronnihar , it be , however , necessary that his arrow should be find to make the matter more evident and certain ; and , notwithstanding his remonstrance , the Sultan judged in favor of Prince Ali , and give order for preparation to be make for the wedding , which be celebrate a few day after with great magnificence .
Prince Houssain would not honor the feast with his presence .
In short , his grief be so violent and insupportable that he leave the Court , and renounce all right of succession to the crown , to turn hermit .
Prince Ahmed , too , do not come to Prince Ali 's and the Princess Nouronnihar 's wed any more than his brother Houssain , but do not renounce the world a he have do .
But , a he could not imagine what have become of his arrow , he steal away from his attendant and resolve to search after it , that he might not have anything to reproach himself with .
With this intent he go to the place where the Princes Houssain 's and Ali 's be gather up , and , go straight forward from there , look carefully on both side of him , he go so far that at last he begin to think his labor be all in vain ; but yet he could not help go forward till he come to some steep craggy rock , which be bound to his journey , and be situate in a barren country , about four league distant from where he set out .
II When Prince Ahmed come pretty nigh to these rock he perceive an arrow , which he gather up , look earnestly at it , and be in the great astonishment to find it be the same he shoot away .
`` Certainly , '' say he to himself , `` neither I nor any man living could shoot an arrow so far , '' and , find it lay flat , not stick into the ground , he judge that it rebound against the rock .
`` There must be some mystery in this , '' say he to himself again , `` and it may be advantageous to me .
Perhaps fortune , to make me amends for deprive me of what I think the great happiness , may have reserve a great blessing for my comfort . ''
As these rock be full of cave and some of those cave be deep , the Prince enter into one , and , look about , cast his eye on an iron door , which seem to have no lock , but he fear it be fasten .
However , thrust against it , it open , and discover an easy descent , but no step , which he walk down with his arrow in his hand .
At first he think he be go into a dark , obscure place , but presently a quite different light succeed that which he come out of , and , enter into a large , spacious place , at about fifty or sixty pace distant , he perceive a magnificent palace , which he have not then time enough to look at .
At the same time a lady of majestic port and air advance as far a the porch , attend by a large troop of lady , so finely dressed and beautiful that it be difficult to distinguish which be the mistress .
As soon a Prince Ahmed perceive the lady , he make all imaginable haste to go and pay his respect ; and the lady , on her part , see him come , prevent him from address his discourse to her first , but say to him : `` Come nearer , Prince Ahmed , you be welcome . ''
It be no small surprise to the Prince to hear himself name in a place he have never hear of , though so nigh to his father 's capital , and he could not comprehend how he should be know to a lady who be a stranger to him .
At last he return the lady 's compliment by throw himself at her foot , and , rise up again , say to her : `` Madam , I return you a thousand thanks for the assurance you give me of a welcome to a place where I believe my imprudent curiosity have make me penetrate too far .
But , madam , may I , without be guilty of ill manner , dare to ask you by what adventure you know me ?
and how you , who live in the same neighborhood with me , should be so great a stranger to me ? ''
`` Prince , '' say the lady , `` let u go into the hall , there I will gratify you in your request . ''
After these word the lady lead Prince Ahmed into the hall .
Then she sit down on a sofa , and when the Prince by her entreaty have do the same she say : `` You be surprise , you say , that I should know you and not be know by you , but you will be no longer surprise when I inform you who I be .
You be undoubtedly sensible that your religion teach you to believe that the world be inhabit by genie as well a men .
I be the daughter of one of the most powerful and distinguished genie , and my name be Paribanou .
The only thing that I have to add be , that you seem to me worthy of a more happy fate than that of possess the Princess Nouronnihar ; and , that you might attain to it , I be present when you draw your arrow , and foresee it would not go beyond Prince Houssain 's .
I take it in the air , and give it the necessary motion to strike against the rock near which you find it , and I tell you that it lie in your power to make use of the favorable opportunity which present itself to make you happy . ''
As the Fairy Paribanou pronounce these last word with a different tone , and look , at the same time , tenderly upon Prince Ahmed , with a modest blush on her cheek , it be no hard matter for the Prince to comprehend what happiness she mean .
He presently consider that the Princess Nouronnihar could never be his and that the Fairy Paribanou excel her infinitely in beauty , agreeableness , wit , and , as much a he could conjecture by the magnificence of the palace , in immense rich .
He bless the moment that he think of seek after his arrow a second time , and , yield to his love , `` Madam , '' reply he , `` should I all my life have the happiness of be your slave , and the admirer of the many charm which ravish my soul , I should think myself the most blessed of men .
Pardon in me the boldness which inspire me to ask this favor , and do n't refuse to admit me into your Court , a prince who be entirely devote to you . ''
`` Prince , '' answer the Fairy , `` will you not pledge your faith to me , as well a I give mine to you ? ''
`` Yes , madam , '' reply the Prince , in an ecstacy of joy ; `` what can I do good , and with great pleasure ?
Yes , my sultaness , my queen , I 'll give you my heart without the least reserve . ''
`` Then , '' answer the Fairy , `` you be my husband , and I be your wife .
But , a I suppose , '' pursue she , `` that you have eat nothing to-day , a slight repast shall be serve up for you , while preparation be make for our wedding feast at night , and then I will show you the apartment of my palace , and you shall judge if this hall be not the mean part of it . ''
Some of the Fairy 's woman , who come into the hall with them , and guess her intention , go immediately out , and return presently with some excellent meat and wine .
When Prince Ahmed have ate and drunk as much a he care for , the Fairy Paribanou carry him through all the apartment , where he saw diamond , ruby , emerald and all sort of fine jewel , intermix with pearl , agate , jasper , porphyry , and all sort of the most precious marble .
But , not to mention the richness of the furniture , which be inestimable , there be such a profuseness throughout that the Prince , instead of ever have see anything like it , own that he could not have imagine that there be anything in the world that could come up to it .
`` Prince , '' say the Fairy , `` if you admire my palace so much , which , indeed , be very beautiful , what would you say to the palace of the chief of our genie , which be much more beautiful , spacious , and magnificent ?
I could also charm you with my garden , but we will let that alone till another time .
Night draw near , and it will be time to go to supper . ''
The next hall which the Fairy lead the Prince into , and where the cloth be lay for the feast , be the last apartment the Prince have not see , and not in the least inferior to the others .
At his entrance into it he admire the infinite number of sconce of wax candle perfume with amber , the multitude of which , instead of be confuse , be place with so just a symmetry a form an agreeable and pleasant sight .
A large side table be set out with all sort of gold plate , so finely wrought that the workmanship be much more valuable than the weight of the gold .
Several chorus of beautiful woman richly dress , and whose voice be ravish , begin a concert , accompany with all sort of the most harmonious instrument ; and when they be set down at table the Fairy Paribanou take care to help Prince Ahmed to the most delicate meat , which she name a she invite him to eat of them , and which the Prince find to be so exquisitely nice that he commend them with exaggeration , and say that the entertainment far surpass those of man .
He find also the same excellence in the wine , which neither he nor the Fairy taste of till the dessert be serve up , which consist of the choicest sweetmeat and fruit .
The wedding feast be continue the next day , or , rather , the day follow the celebration be a continual feast .
At the end of six month Prince Ahmed , who always love and honor the Sultan his father , conceive a great desire to know how he be , and that desire could not be satisfy without his go to see ; he tell the Fairy of it , and desire she would give him leave .
`` Prince , '' say she , `` go when you please .
But first , do n't take it amiss that I give you some advice how you shall behave yourself where you be go .
First , I do n't think it proper for you to tell the Sultan your father of our marriage , nor of my quality , nor the place where you have be .
Beg of him to be satisfy in know you be happy , and desire no more ; and let him know that the sole end of your visit be to make him easy , and inform him of your fate . ''
She appoint twenty gentleman , well mount and equip , to attend him .
When all be ready Prince Ahmed take his leave of the Fairy , embrace her , and renew his promise to return soon .
Then his horse , which be most finely caparison , and be a beautiful a creature a any in the Sultan of Indies ' stable , be lead to him , and he mount him with an extraordinary grace ; and , after he have bid her a last adieu , set forward on his journey .
As it be not a great way to his father 's capital , Prince Ahmed soon arrive there .
The people , glad to see him again , receive him with acclamation of joy , and follow him in crowd to the Sultan 's apartment .
The Sultan receive and embrace him with great joy , complain at the same time , with a fatherly tenderness , of the affliction his long absence have be to him , which he say be the more grievous for that , fortune have decide in favor of Prince Ali his brother , he be afraid he might have commit some rash action .
The Prince tell a story of his adventure without speaking of the Fairy , whom he say that he must not mention , and end : `` The only favor I ask of your Majesty be to give me leave to come often and pay you my respect , and to know how you do . ''
`` Son , '' answer the Sultan of the Indies , `` I can not refuse you the leave you ask me ; but I should much rather you would resolve to stay with me ; at least tell me where I may send to you if you should fail to come , or when I may think your presence necessary . ''
`` Sir , '' reply Prince Ahmed , `` what your Majesty asks of me be part of the mystery I speak to your Majesty of .
I beg of you to give me leave to remain silent on this head , for I shall come so frequently that I be afraid that I shall sooner be think troublesome than be accuse of negligence in my duty . ''
The Sultan of the Indies press Prince Ahmed no more , but say to him : `` Son , I penetrate no farther into your secret , but leave you at your liberty ; but can tell you that you could not do me a great pleasure than to come , and by your presence restore to me the joy I have not felt this long time , and that you shall always be welcome when you come , without interrupt your business or pleasure . ''
Prince Ahmed stay but three day at the Sultan his father 's Court , and the fourth return to the Fairy Paribanou , who do not expect him so soon .
A month after Prince Ahmed 's return from pay a visit to his father , a the Fairy Paribanou have observe that the Prince , since the time that he give her an account of his journey , his discourse with his father , and the leave he ask to go and see him often , have never talk of the Sultan , a if there have be no such person in the world , whereas before he be always speak of him , she think he forebore on her account ; therefore she take an opportunity to say to him one day : `` Prince , tell me , have you forget the Sultan your father ?
Do n't you remember the promise you make to go and see him often ?
For my part I have not forget what you tell me at your return , and so put you in mind of it , that you may not be long before you acquit yourself of your promise . ''
So Prince Ahmed go the next morning with the same attendance a before , but much finer , and himself more magnificently mount , equip , and dress , and be receive by the Sultan with the same joy and satisfaction .
For several month he constantly pay his visit , always in a richer and finer equipage .
At last some vizier , the Sultan 's favorite , who judge of Prince Ahmed 's grandeur and power by the figure he cut , make the Sultan jealous of his son , say it be to be fear he might inveigle himself into the people 's favor and dethrone him .
The Sultan of the Indies be so far from think that Prince Ahmed could be capable of so pernicious a design a his favorite would make him believe that he say to them : `` You be mistake ; my son love me , and I be certain of his tenderness and fidelity , a I have give him no reason to be disgust . ''
But the favorite go on abuse Prince Ahmed till the Sultan say : `` Be it a it will , I do n't believe my son Ahmed be so wicked a you would persuade me he be ; how ever , I be oblige to you for your good advice , and do n't dispute but that it proceed from your good intention . ''
The Sultan of the Indies say this that his favorite might not know the impression their discourse have make on his mind ; which have so alarmed him that he resolve to have Prince Ahmed watch unknown to his grand vizier .
So he send for a female magician , who be introduce by a back door into his apartment .
`` Go immediately , '' he say , `` and follow my son , and watch him so well a to find out where he retire , and bring me word . ''
The magician leave the Sultan , and , know the place where Prince Ahmed find his arrow , go immediately thither , and hide herself near the rock , so that nobody could see her .
The next morning Prince Ahmed set out by daybreak , without take leave either of the Sultan or any of his Court , accord to custom .
The magician , see him come , follow him with her eye , till on a sudden she lose sight of him and his attendant .
As the rock be very steep and craggy , they be an insurmountable barrier , so that the magician judge that there be but two thing for it : either that the Prince retire into some cavern , or an abode of genie or fairy .
Thereupon she come out of the place where she be hid and go directly to the hollow way , which she trace till she come to the farther end , look carefully about on all side ; but , notwithstanding all her diligence , could perceive no opening , not so much a the iron gate which Prince Ahmed discover , which be to be see and open to none but men , and only to such whose presence be agreeable to the Fairy Paribanou .
The magician , who saw it be in vain for her to search any farther , be oblige to be satisfy with the discovery she have make , and return to give the Sultan an account .
The Sultan be very well pleased with the magician 's conduct , and say to her : `` Do you a you think fit ; I 'll wait patiently the event of your promise , '' and to encourage her make her a present of a diamond of great value .
As Prince Ahmed have obtain the Fairy Paribanou 's leave to go to the Sultan of the Indies ' Court once a month , he never fail , and the magician , know the time , go a day or two before to the foot of the rock where she lose sight of the Prince and his attendant , and wait there .
The next morning Prince Ahmed go out , a usual , at the iron gate , with the same attendant a before , and pass by the magician , whom he know not to be such , and , see her lie with her head against the rock , and complain a if she be in great pain , he pity her , turn his horse about , go to her , and ask her what be the matter with her , and what he could do to ease her .
The artful sorceress look at the Prince in a pitiful manner , without ever lift up her head , and answer in broken word and sigh , a if she could hardly fetch her breath , that she be go to the capital city , but on the way thither she be take with so violent a fever that her strength fail her , and she be force to lie down where he saw her , far from any habitation , and without any hope of assistance .
`` Good woman , '' reply Prince Ahmed , `` you be not so far from help a you imagine .
I be ready to assist you , and convey you where you will meet with a speedy cure ; only get up , and let one of my people take you behind him . ''
At these word the magician , who pretend sickness only to know where the Prince live and what he do , refuse not the charitable offer he make her , and that her action might correspond with her word she make many pretended vain endeavor to get up .
At the same time two of the Prince 's attendant , alight off their horse , help her up , and set her behind another , and mount their horse again , and follow the Prince , who turn back to the iron gate , which be open by one of his retinue who ride before .
And when he come into the outward court of the Fairy , without dismount himself , he send to tell her he want to speak with her .
The Fairy Paribanou come with all imaginable haste , not know what make Prince Ahmed return so soon , who , not give her time to ask him the reason , say : `` Princess , I desire you would have compassion on this good woman , '' point to the magician , who be hold up by two of his retinue .
`` I find her in the condition you see her in , and promise her the assistance she stand in need of , and be persuade that you , out of your own goodness , as well a upon my entreaty , will not abandon her . ''
The Fairy Paribanou , who have her eye fix upon the pretended sick woman all the time that the Prince be talk to her , order two of her woman who follow her to take her from the two men that hold her , and carry her into an apartment of the palace , and take as much care of her a she would herself .
While the two woman execute the Fairy 's command , she go up to Prince Ahmed , and , whisper in his ear , say : `` Prince , this woman be not so sick a she pretend to be ; and I be very much mistake if she be not an impostor , who will be the cause of a great trouble to you .
But do n't be concern , let what will be devise against you ; be persuade that I will deliver you out of all the snare that shall be lay for you .
Go and pursue your journey . ''
This discourse of the Fairy 's do not in the least frighten Prince Ahmed .
`` My Princess , '' say he , `` a I do not remember I ever do or design anybody an injury , I can not believe anybody can have a thought of do me one , but if they have I shall not , nevertheless , forbear do good whenever I have an opportunity . ''
Then he go back to his father 's palace .
In the meantime the two woman carry the magician into a very fine apartment , richly furnish .
First they sit her down upon a sofa , with her back support with a cushion of gold brocade , while they make a bed on the same sofa before her , the quilt of which be finely embroider with silk , the sheet of the fine linen , and the coverlet cloth-of-gold .
When they have put her into bed -LRB- for the old sorceress pretend that her fever be so violent she could not help herself in the least -RRB- one of the woman go out , and return soon again with a china dish in her hand , full of a certain liquor , which she present to the magician , while the other help her to sit up .
`` Drink this liquor , '' say she ; `` it be the Water of the Fountain of Lions , and a sovereign remedy against all fever whatsoever .
You will find the effect of it in less than an hour 's time . ''
The magician , to dissemble the good , take it after a great deal of entreaty ; but at last she take the china dish , and , hold back her head , swallow down the liquor .
When she be lay down again the two woman cover her up .
`` Lie quiet , '' say she who bring her the china cup , `` and get a little sleep if you can .
We 'll leave you , and hope to find you perfectly cure when we come again an hour hence . ''
The two woman come again at the time they say they should , and find the magician up and dress , and sit upon the sofa .
`` Oh , admirable potion ! ''
she say : `` it have work it cure much sooner than you tell me it would , and I shall be able to prosecute my journey . ''
The two woman , who be fairy as well a their mistress , after they have tell the magician how glad they be that she be cure so soon , walk before her , and conduct her through several apartment , all more noble than that wherein she lay , into a large hall , the most richly and magnificently furnish of all the palace .
Fairy Paribanou sit in this hall on a throne of massive gold , enrich with diamond , ruby , and pearl of an extraordinary size , and attend on each hand by a great number of beautiful fairy , all richly clothe .
At the sight of so much majesty , the magician be not only dazzled , but be so amazed that , after she have prostrate herself before the throne , she could not open her lip to thank the Fairy a she propose .
However , Paribanou save her the trouble , and say to her : `` Good woman , I be glad I have an opportunity to oblige you , and to see you be able to pursue your journey .
I wo n't detain you , but perhaps you may not be displease to see my palace ; follow my woman , and they will show it you . ''
Then the magician go back and relate to the Sultan of the Indies all that have happen , and how very rich Prince Ahmed be since his marriage with the Fairy , rich than all the king in the world , and how there be danger that he should come and take the throne from his father .
Though the Sultan of the Indies be very well persuade that Prince Ahmed 's natural disposition be good , yet he could not help be concern at the discourse of the old sorceress , to whom , when she be take her leave , he say : `` I thank thee for the pain thou hast take , and thy wholesome advice .
I be so sensible of the great importance it be to me that I shall deliberate upon it in council . ''
Now the favorite advise that the Prince should be kill , but the magician advise differently : `` Make him give you all kind of wonderful thing , by the Fairy 's help , till she tire of him and send him away .
As , for example , every time your Majesty go into the field , you be oblige to be at a great expense , not only in pavilion and tent for your army , but likewise in mule and camel to carry their baggage .
Now , might not you engage him to use his interest with the Fairy to procure you a tent which might be carry in a man 's hand , and which should be so large a to shelter your whole army against bad weather ? ''
When the magician have finish her speech , the Sultan ask his favorite if they have anything well to propose ; and , find them all silent , determine to follow the magician 's advice , a the most reasonable and most agreeable to his mild government .
Next day the Sultan do a the magician have advise him , and ask for the pavilion .
Prince Ahmed never expect that the Sultan his father would have ask such a thing , which at first appear so difficult , not to say impossible .
Though he know not absolutely how great the power of genie and fairy be , he doubt whether it extend so far a to compass such a tent a his father desire .
At last he reply : `` Though it be with the great reluctance imaginable , I will not fail to ask the favor of my wife your Majesty desire , but will not promise you to obtain it ; and if I should not have the honor to come again to pay you my respect that shall be the sign that I have not have success .
But beforehand , I desire you to forgive me , and consider that you yourself have reduce me to this extremity . ''
`` Son , '' reply the Sultan of the Indies , `` I should be very sorry if what I ask of you should cause me the displeasure of never see you more .
I find you do n't know the power a husband have over a wife ; and yours would show that her love to you be very indifferent if she , with the power she have of a fairy , should refuse you so trifle a request a this I desire you to ask of her for my sake . ''
The Prince go back , and be very sad for fear of offend the Fairy .
She keep press him to tell her what be the matter , and at last he say : `` Madam , you may have observe that hitherto I have be content with your love , and have never ask you any other favor .
Consider then , I conjure you , that it be not I , but the Sultan my father , who indiscreetly , or at least I think so , begs of you a pavilion large enough to shelter him , his Court , and army from the violence of the weather , and which a man may carry in his hand .
But remember it be the Sultan my father ask this favor . ''
`` Prince , '' reply the Fairy , smiling , `` I be sorry that so small a matter should disturb you , and make you so uneasy a you appear to me . ''
Then the Fairy sent for her treasurer , to whom , when she come , she say : `` Nourgihan '' -- which be her name -- `` bring me the large pavilion in my treasury . ''
Nourgiham return presently with the pavilion , which she could not only hold in her hand , but in the palm of her hand when she shut her finger , and present it to her mistress , who give it to Prince Ahmed to look at .
When Prince Ahmed saw the pavilion which the Fairy call the large in her treasury , he fancy she have a mind to jest with him , and thereupon the mark of his surprise appear presently in his countenance ; which Paribanou perceive burst out laughing .
`` What !
Prince , '' cry she , `` do you think I jest with you ?
You 'll see presently that I be in earnest .
Nourgihan , '' say she to her treasurer , take the tent out of Prince Ahmed 's hand , `` go and set it up , that the Prince may judge whether it may be large enough for the Sultan his father . ''
The treasurer go immediately with it out of the palace , and carry it a great way off ; and when she have set it up one end reach to the very palace ; at which time the Prince , think it small , find it large enough to shelter two great army than that of the Sultan his father 's , and then say to Paribanou : `` I ask my Princess a thousand pardon for my incredulity ; after what I have see I believe there be nothing impossible to you . ''
`` You see , '' say the Fairy , `` that the pavilion be large than what your father may have occasion for ; for you must know that it have one property -- that it be large or small accord to the army it be to cover . ''
The treasurer take down the tent again , and bring it to the Prince , who take it , and , without stay any long than till the next day , mount his horse , and go with the same attendant to the Sultan his father .
The Sultan , who be persuade that there could not be any such thing a such a tent a he ask for , be in a great surprise at the Prince 's diligence .
He take the tent and after he have admire it smallness his amazement be so great that he could not recover himself .
When the tent be set up in the great plain , which we have before mention , he find it large enough to shelter an army twice as large a he could bring into the field .
But the Sultan be not yet satisfy .
`` Son , '' say he , `` I have already express to you how much I be oblige to you for the present of the tent you have procure me ; that I look upon it a the most valuable thing in all my treasury .
But you must do one thing more for me , which will be every whit a agreeable to me .
I be inform that the Fairy , your spouse , make use of a certain water , call the Water of the Fountain of Lions , which cure all sort of fever , even the most dangerous , and , a I be perfectly well persuaded my health be dear to you , I do n't doubt but you will ask her for a bottle of that water for me , and bring it me a a sovereign medicine , which I may make use of when I have occasion .
Do me this other important piece of service , and thereby complete the duty of a good son toward a tender father . ''
The Prince return and tell the Fairy what his father have say ; `` There 's a great deal of wickedness in this demand ? ''
she answer , `` a you will understand by what I be go to tell you .
The Fountain of Lions be situate in the middle of a court of a great castle , the entrance into which be guard by four fierce lion , two of which sleep alternately , while the other two be awake .
But do n't let that frighten you : I 'll give you mean to pass by them without any danger . ''
The Fairy Paribanou be at that time very hard at work , and , a she have several clew of thread by her , she take up one , and , present it to Prince Ahmed , say : `` First take this clew of thread .
I 'll tell you presently the use of it .
In the second place , you must have two horse ; one you must ride yourself , and the other you must lead , which must be load with a sheep cut into four quarter , that must be kill to-day .
In the third place , you must be provide with a bottle , which I will give you , to bring the water in .
Set out early to-morrow morning , and when you have pass the iron gate throw the clew of thread before you , which will roll till it come to the gate of the castle .
Follow it , and when it stop , a the gate will be open , you will see the four lion : the two that be awake will , by their roaring , wake the other two , but do n't be frighten , but throw each of them a quarter of mutton , and then clap spur to your horse and ride to the fountain ; fill your bottle without alight , and then return with the same expedition .
The lion will be so busy eat they will let you pass by them . ''
Prince Ahmed set out the next morning at the time appoint by the Fairy , and follow her direction exactly .
When he arrive at the gate of the castle he distribute the quarter of mutton among the four lion , and , pass through the midst of them bravely , get to the fountain , fill his bottle , and return back a safe and sound a he go .
When he have go a little distance from the castle gate he turn him about , and , perceive two of the lion come after him , he draw his sabre and prepare himself for defense .
But a he go forward he saw one of them turn out of the road at some distance , and show by his head and tail that he do not come to do him any harm , but only to go before him , and that the other stay behind to follow , he put his sword up again in it scabbard .
Guarded in this manner , he arrive at the capital of the Indies , but the lion never leave him till they have conduct him to the gate of the Sultan 's palace ; after which they return the same way they come , though not without frighten all that saw them , for all they go in a very gentle manner and show no fierceness .
A great many officer come to attend the Prince while he dismount his horse , and afterward conduct him into the Sultan 's apartment , who be at that time surround with his favorite .
He approach toward the throne , lay the bottle at the Sultan 's foot , and kiss the rich tapestry which cover his footstool , and then say : `` I have bring you , sir , the healthful water which your Majesty desire so much to keep among your other rarity in your treasury , but at the same time wish you such extraordinary health a never to have occasion to make use of it . ''
After the Prince have make an end of his compliment the Sultan place him on his right hand , and then say to him : `` Son , I be very much oblige to you for this valuable present , a also for the great danger you have expose yourself to upon my account -LRB- which I have be inform of by a magician who know the Fountain of Lions -RRB- ; but do me the pleasure , '' continue he , `` to inform me by what address , or , rather , by what incredible power , you have be secure . ''
`` Sir , '' reply Prince Ahmed , `` I have no share in the compliment your Majesty be pleased to make me ; all the honor be due to the Fairy my spouse , whose good advice I follow . ''
Then he inform the Sultan what those direction be , and by the relation of this his expedition let him know how well he have behave himself .
When he have do the Sultan , who show outwardly all the demonstration of great joy , but secretly become more jealous , retire into an inward apartment , where he send for the magician .
The magician , at her arrival , save the Sultan the trouble to tell her of the success of Prince Ahmed 's journey , which she have hear of before she come , and therefore be prepare with an infallible mean , a she pretend .
This mean she communicate to the Sultan who declare it the next day to the Prince , in the midst of all his courtier , in these word : `` Son , '' say he , `` I have one thing more to ask of you , after which I shall expect nothing more from your obedience , nor your interest with your wife .
This request be , to bring me a man not above a foot and a half high , and whose beard be thirty foot long who carry a bar of iron upon his shoulder of five hundredweight , which he use a a quarterstaff . ''
Prince Ahmed , who do not believe that there be such a man in the world a his father described , would gladly have excuse himself ; but the Sultan persist in his demand , and tell him the Fairy could do more incredible thing .
The next day the Prince return to his dear Paribanou , to whom he tell his father 's new demand , which , he say , he look upon to be a thing more impossible than the two first ; `` for , '' add he , `` I can not imagine there can be such a man in the world ; without doubt , he have a mind to try whether or no I be so silly a to go about it , or he have a design on my ruin .
In short , how can he suppose that I should lay hold of a man so well arm , though he be but little ?
What arm can I make use of to reduce him to my will ?
If there be any mean , I beg you will tell them , and let me come off with honor this time . ''
`` Do n't affright yourself , Prince , '' reply the Fairy ; `` you run a risk in fetch the Water of the Fountain of Lions for your father , but there 's no danger in find out this man , who be my brother Schaibar , but be so far from be like me , though we both have the same father , that he be of so violent a nature that nothing can prevent his give cruel mark of his resentment for a slight offense ; yet , on the other hand , be so good a to oblige anyone in whatever they desire .
He be make exactly a the Sultan your father have describe him , and have no other arm than a bar of iron of five hundred pound weight , without which he never stir , and which make him respect .
I 'll send for him , and you shall judge of the truth of what I tell you ; but be sure to prepare yourself against be frighten at his extraordinary figure when you see him . ''
`` What !
my Queen , '' reply Prince Ahmed , `` do you say Schaibar be your brother ?
Let him be never so ugly or deform I shall be so far from be frighten at the sight of him that , a our brother , I shall honor and love him . ''
The Fairy order a gold chafing-dish to be set with a fire in it under the porch of her palace , with a box of the same metal , which be a present to her , out of which take a perfume , and throw it into the fire , there arise a thick cloud of smoke .
Some moment after the Fairy say to Prince Ahmed : `` See , there come my brother . ''
The Prince immediately perceive Schaibar come gravely with his heavy bar on his shoulder , his long beard , which he hold up before him , and a pair of thick mustachio , which he tuck behind his ear and almost cover his face ; his eye be very small and deep-set in his head , which be far from be of the small size , and on his head he wear a grenadier 's cap ; besides all this , he be very much hump-backed .
If Prince Ahmed have not know that Schaibar be Paribanou 's brother , he would not have be able to have look at him without fear , but , know first who he be , he stand by the Fairy without the least concern .
Schaibar , a he come forward , look at the Prince earnestly enough to have chill his blood in his vein , and ask Paribanou , when he first accost her , who that man be .
To which she reply : `` He be my husband , brother .
His name be Ahmed ; he be son to the Sultan of the Indies .
The reason why I do not invite you to my wedding be I be unwilling to divert you from an expedition you be engage in , and from which I hear with pleasure you return victorious , and so take the liberty now to call for you . ''
At these word , Schaibar , look on Prince Ahmed favorably , say : `` Is there anything else , sister , wherein I can serve him ?
It be enough for me that he be your husband to engage me to do for him whatever he desire . ''
`` The Sultan , his father , '' reply Paribanou , `` have a curiosity to see you , and I desire he may be your guide to the Sultan 's Court . ''
`` He need but lead me the way I 'll follow him . ''
`` Brother , '' reply Paribanou , `` it be too late to go to-day , therefore stay till to-morrow morning ; and in the meantime I 'll inform you of all that have pass between the Sultan of the Indies and Prince Ahmed since our marriage . ''
The next morning , after Schaibar have be inform of the affair , he and Prince Ahmed set out for the Sultan 's Court .
When they arrive at the gate of the capital the people no sooner saw Schaibar but they run and hid themselves ; and some shut up their shop and lock themselves up in their house , while others , fly , communicate their fear to all they meet , who stay not to look behind them , but run too ; insomuch that Schaibar and Prince Ahmed , a they go along , find the street all desolate till they come to the palace where the porter , instead of keep the gate , run away too , so that the Prince and Schaibar advance without any obstacle to the council-hall , where the Sultan be seat on his throne , and give audience .
Here likewise the usher , at the approach of Schaibar , abandon their post , and give them free admittance .
Schaibar go boldly and fiercely up to the throne , without wait to be present by Prince Ahmed , and accost the Sultan of the Indies in these word : `` Thou hast ask for me , '' say he ; `` see , here I be ; what wouldst thou have with me ? ''
The Sultan , instead of answer him , clap his hand before his eye to avoid the sight of so terrible an object ; at which uncivil and rude reception Schaibar be so much provoked , after he have give him the trouble to come so far , that he instantly lift up his iron bar and kill him before Prince Ahmed could intercede in his behalf .
All that he could do be to prevent his kill the grand vizier , who sit not far from him , represent to him that he have always give the Sultan his father good advice .
`` These be they , then , '' say Schaibar , `` who give him bad , '' and a he pronounce these word he kill all the other vizier and flatter favorite of the Sultan who be Prince Ahmed 's enemy .
Every time he strike he kill some one or other , and none escape but they who be not so frightened a to stand star and gaping , and who save themselves by flight .
When this terrible execution be over Schaibar come out of the council-hall into the midst of the courtyard with the iron bar upon his shoulder , and , look hard at the grand vizier , who owe his life to Prince Ahmed , he say : `` I know here be a certain magician , who be a great enemy of my brother-in-law than all these base favorite I have chastise .
Let the magician be bring to me presently . ''
The grand vizier immediately send for her , and as soon a she be bring Schaibar say , at the time he fetch a stroke at her with his iron bar : `` Take the reward of thy pernicious counsel , and learn to feign sickness again . ''
After this he say : `` This be not yet enough ; I will use the whole town after the same manner if they do not immediately acknowledge Prince Ahmed , my brother-in-law , for their Sultan and the Sultan of the Indies . ''
Then all that be there present make the air echo again with the repeated acclamation of : `` Long life to Sultan Ahmed '' ; and immediately after he be proclaim through the whole town .
Schaibar make him be clothe in the royal vestment , instal him on the throne , and after he have cause all to swear homage and fidelity to him go and fetch his sister Paribanou , whom he bring with all the pomp and grandeur imaginable , and make her to be own Sultaness of the Indies .
As for Prince Ali and Princess Nouronnihar , a they have no hand in the conspiracy against Prince Ahmed and know nothing of any , Prince Ahmed assign them a considerable province , with it capital , where they spend the rest of their life .
Afterwards he send an officer to Prince Houssain to acquaint him with the change and make him an offer of which province he like best ; but that Prince think himself so happy in his solitude that he bid the officer return the Sultan his brother thanks for the kindness he design him , assure him of his submission ; and that the only favor he desire of him be to give him leave to live retire in the place he have make choice of for his retreat .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Arabian Nights .
THE HISTORY OF JACK THE GIANT-KILLER In the reign of the famous King Arthur there live in Cornwall a lad name Jack , who be a boy of a bold temper , and take delight in hearing or reading of conjurer , giant , and fairy ; and use to listen eagerly to the deed of the knight of King Arthur 's Round Table .
In those day there live on St. Michael 's Mount , off Cornwall , a huge giant , eighteen foot high and nine foot round ; his fierce and savage look be the terror of all who behold him .
He dwell in a gloomy cavern on the top of the mountain , and use to wade over to the mainland in search of prey ; when he would throw half a dozen ox upon his back , and tie three time a many sheep and hog round his waist , and march back to his own abode .
The giant have do this for many year when Jack resolve to destroy him .
Jack take a horn , a shovel , a pickaxe , his armor , and a dark lantern , and one winter 's evening he go to the mount .
There he dig a pit twenty-two foot deep and twenty broad .
He cover the top over so a to make it look like solid ground .
He then blow his horn so loudly that the giant awoke and come out of his den cry out : `` You saucy villain !
you shall pay for this I 'll broil you for my breakfast ! ''
He have just finish , when , take one step far , he tumble headlong into the pit , and Jack strike him a blow on the head with his pickaxe which kill him .
Jack then return home to cheer his friend with the news .
Another giant , call Blunderbore , vow to be revenge on Jack if ever he should have him in his power .
This giant keep an enchanted castle in the midst of a lonely wood ; and some time after the death of Cormoran Jack be pass through a wood , and be weary , sit down and go to sleep .
The giant , passing by and see Jack , carry him to his castle , where he lock him up in a large room , the floor of which be cover with the body , skull and bone of men and woman .
Soon after the giant go to fetch his brother who be likewise a giant , to take a meal off his flesh ; and Jack saw with terror through the bar of his prison the two giant approach .
Jack , perceive in one corner of the room a strong cord , take courage , and make a slip-knot at each end , he throw them over their head , and tie it to the window-bars ; he then pull till he have choke them .
When they be black in the face he slide down the rope and stab them to the heart .
Jack next take a great bunch of key from the pocket of Blunderbore , and go into the castle again .
He make a strict search through all the room , and in one of them find three lady tie up by the hair of their head , and almost starve to death .
They tell him that their husband have be kill by the giant , who have then condemn them to be starve to death because they would not eat the flesh of their own dead husband .
`` Ladies , '' say Jack , `` I have put an end to the monster and his wicked brother ; and I give you this castle and all the rich it contain , to make some amends for the dreadful pain you have felt . ''
He then very politely give them the key of the castle , and go far on his journey to Wales .
As Jack have but little money , he go on a fast a possible .
At length he come to a handsome house .
Jack knock at the door , when there come forth a Welsh giant .
Jack say he be a traveler who have lose his way , on which the giant make him welcome , and let him into a room where there be a good bed to sleep in .
Jack take off his clothes quickly , but though he be weary he could not go to sleep .
Soon after this he hear the giant walking backward and forward in the next room , and say to himself : `` Though here you lodge with me this night , You shall not see the morning light ; My club shall dash your brain out quite . ''
`` Say you so ? ''
think Jack .
`` Are these your trick upon traveler ?
But I hope to prove as cunning a you be . ''
Then , get out of bed , he grope about the room , and at last find a large thick billet of wood .
He lay it in his own place in the bed , and then hide himself in a dark corner of the room .
The giant , about midnight , enter the apartment , and with his bludgeon strike many blow on the bed , in the very place where Jack have lay the log ; and then he go back to his own room , think he have break all Jack 's bone .
Early in the morning Jack put a bold face upon the matter , and walk into the giant 's room to thank him for his lodging .
The giant start when he saw him , and begin to stammer out : `` Oh !
dear me ; be it you ?
Pray how do you sleep last night ?
Did you hear or see anything in the dead of the night ? ''
`` Nothing to speak of , '' say Jack , carelessly ; `` a rat , I believe , give me three or four slap with it tail , and disturb me a little ; but I soon go to sleep again . ''
The giant wonder more and more at this ; yet he do not answer a word , but go to bring two great bowl of hasty-pudding for their breakfast .
Jack want to make the giant believe that he could eat as much a himself , so he contrive to button a leathern bag inside his coat , and slip the hasty-pudding into this bag , while he seem to put it into his mouth .
When breakfast be over he say to the giant : `` Now I will show you a fine trick .
I can cure all wound with a touch ; I could cut off my head in one minute , and the next put it sound again on my shoulder .
You shall see an example . ''
He then take hold of the knife , rip up the leathern bag , and all the hasty-pudding tumble out upon the floor .
`` Ods splutter hur nail ! ''
cry the Welsh giant , who be ashamed to be outdo by such a little fellow a Jack , `` hur can do that hurself '' ; so he snatch up the knife , plunge it into his own stomach , and in a moment drop down dead .
Jack , have hitherto be successful in all his undertaking , resolve not to be idle in future ; he therefore furnish himself with a horse , a cap of knowledge , a sword of sharpness , shoe of swiftness , and an invisible coat , the good to perform the wonderful enterprise that lay before him .
He travel over high hill , and on the third day he come to a large and spacious forest through which his road lay .
Scarcely have he enter the forest when he behold a monstrous giant drag along by the hair of their head a handsome knight and his lady .
Jack alight from his horse , and tie him to an oak tree , put on his invisible coat , under which he carry his sword of sharpness .
When he come up to the giant he make several stroke at him , but could not reach his body , but wound his thigh in several place ; and at length , put both hand to his sword and aim with all his might , he cut off both his leg .
Then Jack , set his foot upon his neck , plunge his sword into the giant 's body , when the monster give a groan and expire .
The knight and his lady thank Jack for their deliverance , and invite him to their house , to receive a proper reward for his service .
`` No , '' say Jack , `` I can not be easy till I find out this monster 's habitation . ''
So , take the knight 's direction , he mount his horse and soon after come in sight of another giant , who be sit on a block of timber wait for his brother 's return .
Jack alight from his horse , and , put on his invisible coat , approach and aim a blow at the giant 's head , but , miss his aim , he only cut off his nose .
On this the giant seize his club and lay about him most unmercifully .
`` Nay , '' say Jack , `` if this be the case I 'd better dispatch you ! ''
so , jump upon the block , he stab him in the back , when he drop down dead .
Jack then proceed on his journey , and travel over hill and dale , till arrive at the foot of a high mountain he knock at the door of a lonely house , when an old man let him in .
When Jack be seat the hermit thus address him : `` My son , on the top of this mountain be an enchanted castle , keep by the giant Galligantus and a vile magician .
I lament the fate of a duke 's daughter , whom they seize a she be walk in her father 's garden , and bring hither transform into a deer . ''
Jack promise that in the morning , at the risk of his life , he would break the enchantment ; and after a sound sleep he rise early , put on his invisible coat , and get ready for the attempt .
When he have climb to the top of the mountain he saw two fiery griffin , but he pass between them without the least fear of danger , for they could not see him because of his invisible coat .
On the castle gate he find a golden trumpet , under which be write these line : `` Whoever can this trumpet blow Shall cause the giant 's overthrow . ''
As soon a Jack have read this he seize the trumpet and blow a shrill blast , which make the gate fly open and the very castle itself tremble .
The giant and the conjurer now know that their wicked course be at an end , and they stand bite their thumb and shake with fear .
Jack , with his sword of sharpness , soon kill the giant , and the magician be then carry away by a whirlwind ; and every knight and beautiful lady who have be change into bird and beast return to their proper shape .
The castle vanish away like smoke , and the head of the giant Galligantus be then send to King Arthur .
The knight and lady rest that night at the old man 's hermitage , and next day they set out for the Court .
Jack then go up to the King , and give his Majesty an account of all his fierce battle .
Jack 's fame have now spread through the whole country , and at the King 's desire the duke give him his daughter in marriage , to the joy of all his kingdom .
After this the King give him a large estate , on which he and his lady live the rest of their day in joy and contentment .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Old Chapbook .
THE BLACK BULL OF NORROWAY And many a hunting song they sing , And song of game and glee ; Then tune to plaintive strain their tongue , `` Of Scotland 's luve and lee . ''
To wilder measure next they turn `` The Black , Black Bull of Norroway ! ''
Sudden the taper cease to burn , The minstrel cease to play .
`` The Cout of Keeldar , '' by J. Leyden .
In Norroway , langsyne , there live a certain lady , and she have three dochters .
The auld o ' them say to her mither : `` Mither , bake me a bannock , and roast me a collop , for I 'm gaun awa ' to seek my fortune . ''
Her mither do sae ; and the dochter gaed awa ' to an auld witch washerwife and tell her purpose .
The auld wife bid her stay that day , and gang and look out o ' her back door , and see what she could see .
She saw nocht the first day .
The second day she do the same , and saw nocht .
On the third day she look again , and saw a coach-and-six come along the road .
She run in and tell the auld wife what she saw .
`` Aweel , '' quo ' the auld wife , `` yon 's for you . ''
Sae they take her into the coach , and gallop aff .
The second dochter next say to her mither : `` Mither , bake me a bannock , and roast me a collop , fur I 'm gaun awa ' to seek my fortune . ''
Her mither do sae ; and awa ' she gaed to the auld wife , a her sister have dune .
On the third day she look out o ' the back door , and saw a coach-and-four come along the road .
`` Aweel , '' quo ' the auld wife , `` yon 's for you . ''
Sae they take her in , and aff they set .
The third dochter say to her mither : `` Mither , bake me a bannock , and roast me a collop , for I 'm gaun awa ' to seek my fortune . ''
Her mither do sae ; and awa ' she gaed to the auld witch-wife .
She bid her look out o ' her back door , and see what she could see .
She do sae ; and when she come back say she saw nocht .
The second day she do the same , and saw nocht .
The third day she look again , and on come back say to the auld wife she saw nocht but a muckle Black Bull come roar alang the road .
`` Aweel , '' quo ' the auld wife , `` yon 's for you . ''
On hear this she be next to distracted wi ' grief and terror ; but she be lift up and set on his back , and awa ' they go .
Aye they travel , and on they travel , till the lady grow faint wi ' hunger .
`` Eat out o ' my right lug , '' say the Black Bull , `` and drink out o ' my left lug , and set by your leaving . ''
Sae she do a he say , and be wonderfully refresh .
And lang they gaed , and sair they rade , till they come in sight o ' a very big and bonny castle .
`` Yonder we maun be this night , '' quo ' the bull ; `` for my auld brither live yonder '' ; and presently they be at the place .
They lift her aff his back , and take her in , and send him away to a park for the night .
In the morning , when they bring the bull hame , they take the lady into a fine shining parlor , and give her a beautiful apple , tell her no to break it till she be in the great strait ever mortal be in in the world , and that wad bring her o ` t. Again she be lift on the bull 's back , and after she have ridden far , and far than I can tell , they come in sight o ' a far bonny castle , and far far awa ' than the last .
Says the bull till her : `` Yonder we maun be the night , for my second brither live yonder '' ; and they be at the place directly .
They lift her down and take her in , and send the bull to the field for the night .
In the morning they take the lady into a fine and rich room , and give her the fine pear she have ever see , bid her no to break it till she be in the great strait ever mortal could be in , and that wad get her out o ` t. Again she be lift and set on his back , and awa ' they go .
And lang they gaed , and sair they rade , till they come in sight o ' the far big castle , and far farthest aff , they have yet see .
`` We maun be yonder the night , '' say the bull , `` for my young brither live yonder '' ; and they be there directly .
They lift her down , take her in , and send the bull to the field for the night .
In the morning they take her into a room , the fine of a ' , and gi her a plum , tell her no to break it till she be in the great strait mortal could be in , and that wad get her out o ` t. Presently they bring hame the bull , set the lady on his back , and awa ' they go .
And aye they gaed , and on they rade , till they come to a dark and ugsome glen , where they stop , and the lady light down .
Says the bull to her : `` Here ye maun stay till I gang and fight the deil .
Ye maun seat yoursel ' on that stane , and move neither hand nor fit till I come back , else I 'll never find ye again .
And if everything round about ye turn blue I hae beat the deil ; but should a ' thing turn red he 'll hae conquer me . ''
She set hersel ' down on the stane , and by-and-by a ' round her turned blue .
O'ercome wi ' joy , she lift the ae fit and cross it owre the ither , sae glad be she that her companion be victorious .
The bull return and seek for but never could find her .
Lang she sit , and aye she grat , till she weary .
At last she rase and gaed awa ' , she kedna whaur till .
On she wander till she come to a great hill o ' glass , that she try a ' she could to climb , bat wasna able .
Round the bottom o ' the hill she gaed , sabbing and seek a passage owre , till at last she come to a smith 's house ; and the smith promise , if she wad serve him seven year , he wad make her iron shoon , wherewi ' she could climb owre the glassy hill .
At seven year ' end she get her iron shoon , clamb the glassy hill , and chance to come to the auld washerwife 's habitation .
There she be tell of a gallant young knight that have give in some bluidy sarks to wash , and whaever wash thae sarks be to be his wife .
The auld wife have wash till she be tire , and then she set to her dochter , and baith wash , and they wash , and they good wash , in hope of get the young knight ; but a ' they could do they couldna bring out a stain .
At length they set the stranger damosel to wark ; and whenever she begin the stain come out pure and clean , but the auld wife make the knight believe it be her dochter have wash the sarks .
So the knight and the eldest dochter be to be marry , and the stranger damosel be distract at the thought of it , for she be deeply in love wi ' him .
So she bethink her of her apple , and break it , find it fill with gold and precious jewelry , the rich she have ever see .
`` All these , '' she say to the eldest dochter , `` I will give you , on condition that you put off your marriage for ae day , and allow me to go into his room alone at night . ''
So the lady consent ; but meanwhile the auld wife have prepare a sleeping-drink , and give it to the knight , wha drink it , and never waken till next morning .
The lee-lang night ther damosel sabbed and sing : `` Seven lang year I serve for thee , The glassy hill I clamb for thee , The bluidy shirt I wrang for thee ; And wilt thou no wauken and turn to me ? ''
Next day she kentna what to do for grief .
She then brak the pear , and find it fill wi ' jewelry far rich than the content o ' the apple .
Wi ' thae jewel she bargain for permission to be a second night in the young knight 's chamber ; but the auld wife gi him anither sleeping-drink , and he again sleepit till morning .
A ' night she keep sigh and sing a before : `` Seven lang year I serve for thee , '' & c. Still he sleepit , and she nearly lose hope a ` thegither .
But that day when he be out at the hunting , somebody ask him what noise and moaning be yon they hear all last night in his bedchamber .
He say he heardna ony noise .
But they assure him there be sae ; and he resolve to keep waking that night to try what he could hear .
That be the third night , and the damosel be between hope and despair , she brak her plum , and it hold far the rich jewelry of the three .
She bargain a before ; and the auld wife , a before , take in the sleeping-drink to the young knight 's chamber ; but he tell her he couldna drink it that night without sweeten .
And when she gaed awa ' for some honey to sweeten it wi ' , he pour out the drink , and sae make the auld wife think he have drunk it .
They a ' go to bed again , and the damosel begin , a before , singing : `` Seven lang year I serve for thee , The glassy hill I clamb for thee , The bluidy shirt I wrang for thee ; And wilt thou no wauken and turn to me ? ''
He hear , and turn to her .
And she tell him a ' that have befa'en her , and he tell her a ' that have happen to him .
And he cause the auld washerwife and her dochter to be burn .
And they be marry , and he and she be live happy till this day , for aught I ken .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Chambers , Popular Traditions of Scotland .
THE RED ETIN There be ance twa widow that live on a small bit o ' ground , which they rent from a farmer .
Ane of them have twa son , and the other have ane ; and by-and-by it be time for the wife that have twa son to send them away to seeke their fortune .
So she tell her eldest son ae day to take a can and bring her water from the well , that she might bake a cake for him ; and however much or however little water he might bring , the cake would be great or sma ' accordingly ; and that cake be to be a ' that she could gie him when he go on his travel .
The lad gaed away wi ' the can to the well , and fill it wi ' water , and then come away hame again ; but the can be break the maist part of the water have run out before he get back .
So his cake be very sma ' ; yet sma ' a it be , his mother ask if he be willing to take the half of it with her bless , tell him that , if he choose rather to have the hale , he would only get it wi ' her curse .
The young man , think he might hae to travel a far way , and not know when or how he might get other provision , say he would like to hae the hale cake , com of his mother 's malison what like ; so she give him the hale cake , and her malison alang wi ` t .
Then he take his brither aside , and give him a knife to keep till he should come back , desire him to look at it every morning , and as lang a it continue to be clear , then he might be sure that the owner of it be well ; but if it grow dim and rusty , then for certain some ill have befall him .
So the young man set out to seek his fortune .
And he gaed a ' that day , and a ' the next day ; and on the third day , in the afternoon , he come up to where a shepherd be sit with a flock o ' sheep .
And he gaed up to the shepherd and ask him wha the sheep belanged to ; and the man answer : `` The Red Etin of Ireland Ance live in Bellygan , And stole King Malcolm 's daughter , The King of fair Scotland .
He beat her , he bind her , He lay her on a band ; And every day he ding her With a bright silver wand Like Julian the Roman He 's one that fear no man .
It 's say there 's ane predestinate To be his mortal foe ; But that man be yet unborn And lang may it be so . ''
The young man then go on his journey ; and he have not go far when he espy an old man with white lock herd a flock of swine ; and he gaed up to him and ask whose swine these be , when the man answer : `` The Red Etin of Ireland '' -- -LRB- Repeat the verse above . -RRB-
Then the young man gaed on a bit far , and come to another very old man herd goat ; and when he ask whose goat they be , the answer be : `` The Red Etin of Ireland '' -- -LRB- Repeat the verse again . -RRB-
This old man also tell him to beware of the next beast that he should meet , for they be of a very different kind from any he have yet see .
So the young man go on , and by-and-by he saw a multitude of very dreadfu ' beast , ilk ane o ' them wi ' twa head , and on every head four horn .
And he be sore frightened , and run away from them as fast a he could ; and glad be he when he come to a castle that stand on a hillock , wi ' the door stand wide to the wa ' .
And he gaed into the castle for shelter , and there he saw an auld wife sit beside the kitchen fire .
He ask the wife if he might stay there for the night , a he be tire wi ' a lang journey ; and the wife say he might , but it be not a good place for him to be in , a it belanged to the Red Etin , who be a very terrible beast , wi ' three head , that spar no living man he could get hold of .
The young man would have go away , but he be afraid of the beast on the outside of the castle ; so he beseech the old woman to conceal him as well a she could , and not to tell the Etin that he be there .
He think , if he could put over the night , he might get away in the morning without meet wi ' the beast , and so escape .
But he have not be long in his hidy-hole before the awful Etin come in ; and nae sooner be he in than he be hear cry : `` Snouk but and snouk ben , I find the smell of an earthly man ; Be he live , or be he dead , His heart this night shall kitchen -LRB- 1 -RRB- my bread . ''
-LRB- 1 -RRB- `` Kitchen , '' that be , `` season . ''
The monster soon find the poor young man , and pull him from his hole .
And when he have get him out he tell him that if he could answer him three question his life should be spar .
The first be : Whether Ireland or Scotland be first inhabit ?
The second be : Whether man be make for woman , or woman for man ?
The third be : Whether men or brute be make first ?
The lad not be able to answer one of these question , the Red Etin take a mace and knock him on the head , and turn him into a pillar of stone .
On the morning after this happen the young brither take out the knife to look at it , and he be grieve to find it a ' brown wi ' rust .
He tell his mother that the time be now come for him to go away upon his travel also ; so she request him to take the can to the well for water , that she might bake a cake for him .
The can be break , he bring hame a little water a the other have do , and the cake be as little .
She ask whether he would have the hale cake wi ' her malison , or the half wi ' her blessing ; and , like his brither , he think it best to have the hale cake , come o ' the malison what might .
So he gaed away ; and everything happen to him that have happen to his brother !
The other widow and her son heard of a ' that have happen frae a fairy , and the young man determine that he would also go upon his travel , and see if he could do anything to relieve his twa friend .
So his mother give him a can to go to the well and bring home water , that she might bake him a cake for his journey .
And he gaed , and a he be bring hame the water , a raven owre abune his head cry to him to look , and he would see that the water be run out .
And he be a young man of sense , and see the water run out , he take some clay and patch up the hole , so that he bring home enough water to bake a large cake .
When his mother put it to him to take the half-cake wi ' her blessing , he take it in preference to have the hale wi ' her malison ; and yet the half be big than what the other lad have get a ` thegither .
So he gaed away on his journey ; and after he have travel a far way he meet wi ' an auld woman , that ask him if he would give her a bit of his bannock .
And he say he would gladly do that , and so he give her a piece of the bannock ; and for that she gi him a magical wand , that she say might yet be of service to him if he take care to use it rightly .
Then the auld woman , who be a fairy , tell him a great deal that whould happen to him , and what he ought to do in a ' circumstance ; and after that she vanish in an instant out o ' his sight .
He gaed on a great way farther , and then he come up to the old man herd the sheep ; and when he ask whose sheep these be , the answer be : `` The Red Etin of Ireland Ance live in Bellygan , And stole King Malcolm 's daughter , The King of fair Scotland .
He beat her , he bind her , He lay her on a band ; And every day he ding her With a bright silver wand .
Like Julian the Roman , He 's one that fear no man , But now I fear his end be near , And destiny at hand ; And you 're to be , I plainly see , The heir of all his land . ''
-LRB- Repeat the same inquiry to the man attend the swine and the man attend the goat , with the same answer in each case . -RRB-
When he come to the place where the monstrous beast be stand , he do not stop nor run away , but go boldly through among them .
One come up roar with open mouth to devour him , when he strike it with his wand , and lay it in an instant dead at his foot .
He soon come to the Etin 's castle , where he knock , and be admit .
The auld woman that sit by the fire warn him of the terrible Etin , and what have be the fate of the twa brithers ; but he be not to be daunt .
The monster soon come in , say : `` Snouk but and snouk ben , I find the smell of an earthly man ; Be he live , or be he dead , His heart shall be kitchen to my bread . ''
He quickly espy the young man , and bid him come forth on the floor .
And then he put the three question to him , but the young man have be tell everything by the good fairy , so he be able to answer all the question .
When the Etin find this he know that his power be go .
The young man then take up the axe and hew off the monster 's three head .
He next ask the old woman to show him where the King 's daughter lay ; and the old woman take him upstairs and open a great many door , and out of every door come a beautiful lady who have be imprison there by the Etin ; and ane o ' the lady be the King 's daughter .
She also take him down into a low room , and there stand two stone pillar that he have only to touch wi ' his wand , when his two friend and neighbor start into life .
And the hale o ' the prisoner be overjoy at their deliverance , which they all acknowledge to be owe to the prudent young man .
Next day they a ' set out for the King 's Court , and a gallant company they make .
And the King marry his daughter to the young man that have deliver her , and give a noble 's daughter to ilk ane o ' the other young men ; and so they a ' live happily a ' the rest o ' their day .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Brown_Fairy_Book.txt.out
The Brown Fairy Book What the Rose do to the Cypress -LSB- 1 -RSB- Once upon a time a great king of the East , name Saman-lalposh , -LSB- 2 -RSB- have three brave and clever son -- Tahmasp , Qamas , and Almas-ruh-baksh .
-LSB- 3 -RSB- One day , when the king be sit in his hall of audience , his eldest son , Prince Tahmasp , come before him , and after greet his father with due respect , say : ' O my royal father !
I be tire of the town ; if you will give me leave , I will take my servant to-morrow and will go into the country and hunt on the hill-skirts ; and when I have take some game I will come back , at evening-prayer time . '
His father consent , and send with him some of his own trusted servant , and also hawk , and falcon , hunt dog , cheetah and leopard .
At the place where the prince intend to hunt he saw a most beautiful deer .
He order that it should not be kill , but trap or capture with a noose .
The deer look about for a place where he might escape from the ring of the beater , and spy one unwatched close to the prince himself .
It bound high and leap right over his head , get out of the ring , and tore like the eastern wind into the waste .
The prince put spur to his horse and pursue it ; and be soon lose to the sight of his follower .
Until the world-lighting sun stand above his head in the zenith he do not take his eye off the deer ; suddenly it disappear behind some rise ground , and with all his search he could not find any further trace of it .
He be now drench in sweat , and he breathe with pain ; and his horse 's tongue hung from it mouth with thirst .
He dismount and toil on , with bridle on arm , pray and cast himself on the mercy of heaven .
Then his horse fell and surrender it life to God .
On and on he go across the sandy waste , weep and with burn breast , till at length a hill rise into sight .
He muster his strength and climb to the top , and there he find a giant tree whose foot keep firm the wrinkled earth , and whose crest touch the very heaven .
Its branch have put forth a glory of leaf , and there be grass and a spring underneath it , and flower of many colour .
Gladdened by this sight , he drag himself to the water 's edge , drink his fill , and return thanks for his deliverance from thirst .
He look about him and , to his amazement , saw close by a royal seat .
While he be ponder what could have bring this into the merciless desert , a man draw near who be dress like a faqir , and have bare head and foot , but walk with the free carriage of a person of rank .
His face be kind , and wise and thoughtful , and he come on and speak to the prince . '
O good youth !
how do you come here ?
Who be you ?
Where do you come from ? '
The prince tell everything just a it have happen to him , and then respectfully add : ' I have make know my own circumstance to you , and now I venture to beg you to tell me your own .
Who be you ?
How do you come to make your dwelling in this wilderness ? '
To this the faqir reply : ' O youth !
it would be best for you to have nothing to do with me and to know nothing of my fortune , for my story be fit neither for tell nor for hear . '
The prince , however , plead so hard to be tell , that at last there be nothing to be do but to let him hear .
` Learn and know , O young man !
that I be King Janangir -LSB- 4 -RSB- of Babylon , and that once I have army and servant , family and treasure ; untold wealth and belonging .
The Most High God give me seven son who grow up well verse in all princely art .
My eldest son heard from traveller that in Turkistan , on the Chinese frontier , there be a king name Quimus , the son of Timus , and that he have an only child , a daughter name Mihr-afruz , -LSB- 5 -RSB- who , under all the azure heaven , be unrivalled for beauty .
Princes come from all quarter to ask her hand , and on one and all she impose a condition .
She say to them : `` I know a riddle ; and I will marry anyone who answer it , and will bestow on him all my possession .
But if a suitor can not answer my question I cut off his head and hang it on the battlement of the citadel . ''
The riddle she ask be , `` What do the rise do to the cypress ? ''
` Now , when my son heard this tale , he fell in love with that unseen girl , and he come to me lament and bewail himself .
Nothing that I could say have the slight effect on him .
I say : `` Oh my son !
if there must be fruit of this fancy of yours , I will lead forth a great army against King Quimus .
If he will give you his daughter freely , well and good ; and if not , I will ravage his kingdom and bring her away by force . ''
This plan do not please him ; he say : `` It be not right to lay a kingdom waste and to destroy a palace so that I may attain my desire .
I will go alone ; I will answer the riddle , and win her in this way . ''
At last , out of pity for him , I let him go .
He reach the city of King Quimus .
He be ask the riddle and could not give the true answer ; and his head be cut off and hang upon the battlement .
Then I mourn him in black raiment for forty day .
After this another and another of my son be seize by the same desire , and in the end all my seven son go , and all be kill .
In grief for their death I have abandon my throne , and I abide here in this desert , withhold my hand from all State business and wear myself away in sorrow . '
Prince Tahmasp listen to this tale , and then the arrow of love for that unseen girl strike his heart also .
Just at this moment of his ill-fate his people come up , and gather round him like moth round a light .
They bring him a horse , fleet a the breeze of the dawn ; he set his willing foot in the stirrup of safety and ride off .
As the day go by the thorn of love rankle in his heart , and he become the very example of lover , and grow faint and feeble .
At last his confidant search his heart and lift the veil from the face of his love , and then set the matter before his father , King Saman-lal-posh .
` Your son , Prince Tahmasp , love distractedly the Princess Mihr-afruz , daughter of King Quimus , son of Timus . '
Then they tell the king all about her and her doings .
A mist of sadness cloud the king 's mind , and he say to his son : ` If this thing be so , I will in the first place send a courier with friendly letter to King Quimus , and will ask the hand of his daughter for you .
I will send an abundance of gift , and a string of camel lade with flashing stone and ruby of Badakhsham In this way I will bring her and her suite , and I will give her to you to be your solace .
But if King Quimus be unwilling to give her to you , I will pour a whirlwind of soldier upon him , and I will bring to you , in this way , that most consequential of girl . '
But the prince say that this plan would not be right , and that he would go himself , and would answer the riddle .
Then the king 's wise men say : ` This be a very weighty matter ; it would be best to allow the prince to set out accompany by some person in whom you have confidence .
Maybe he will repent and come back . '
So King Saman order all preparation for the journey to be make , and then Prince Tahmasp take his leave and set out , accompany by some of the courtier , and take with him a string of two-humped and raven-eyed camel lade with jewel , and gold , and costly stuff .
By stage after stage , and after many day ' journeying , he arrive at the city of King Quimus .
What do he see ?
A tower citadel whose foot keep firm the wrinkled earth , and whose battlement touch the blue heaven .
He saw hang from it battlement many head , but it have not the least effect upon him that these be head of men of rank ; he listen to no advice about lay aside his fancy , but ride up to the gate and on into the heart of the city .
The place be so splendid that the eye of the age have never see it like , and there , in an open square , he find a tent of crimson satin set up , and beneath it two jewel drum with jewelled stick .
These drum be put there so that the suitor of the princess might announce their arrival by beat on them , after which some one would come and take them to the king 's presence .
The sight of the drum stir the fire of Prince Tahmasp 's love .
He dismount , and move towards them ; but his companion hurry after and beg him first to let them go and announce him to the king , and say that then , when they have put their possession in a place of security , they would enter into the all important matter of the princess .
The prince , however , reply that he be there for one thing only ; that his first duty be to beat the drum and announce himself a a suitor , when he would be take , a such , to the king , who would then give him proper lodgment .
So he strike upon the drum , and at once summon an officer who take him to King Quimus .
When the king saw how very young the prince look , and that he be still drink of the fountain of wonder , he say : ' O youth !
leave aside this fancy which my daughter have conceive in the pride of her beauty .
No one can answer er her riddle , and she have do to death many men who have have no pleasure in life nor taste it charm .
God forbid that your spring also should be ravage by the autumn wind of martyrdom . '
All his urgency , however , have no effect in make the prince withdraw .
At length it be settle between them that three day should be give to pleasant hospitality and that then should follow what have to be say and do .
Then the prince go to his own quarter and be treat a become his station .
King Quimus now send for his daughter and for her mother , Gulrukh , -LSB- 6 -RSB- and talk to them .
He say to Mibrafruz : ` Listen to me , you cruel flirt !
Why do you persist in this folly ?
Now there have come to ask your hand a prince of the east , so handsome that the very sun grows modest before the splendour of his face ; he be rich , and he have bring gold and jewel , all for you , if you will marry him .
A good husband you will not find . '
But all the argument of father and mother be waste , for her only answer be : ' O my father !
I have swear to myself that I will not marry , even if a thousand year go by , unless someone answer my riddle , and that I will give myself to that man only who do answer it . '
The three day pass ; then the riddle be ask : ` What do the rise do to the cypress ? '
The prince have an eloquent tongue , which could split a hair , and without hesitation he reply to her with a verse : ` Only the Omnipotent have knowledge of secret ; if any man say , `` I know '' do not believe him . '
Then a servant fetch in the polluted , blue-eyed headsman , who ask : ` Whose sun of life have come near it setting ? '
take the prince by the arm , place him upon the cloth of execution , and then , all merciless and stony hearted , cut his head from his body and hung it on the battlement .
The news of the death of Prince Tahmasp plunge his father into despair and stupefaction .
He mourn for him in black raiment for forty day ; and then , a few day later , his second son , Prince Qamas , extract from him leave to go too ; and he , also , be put to death .
One son only now remain , the brave , eloquent , happy-natured Prince Almas-ruh-bakhsh .
One day , when his father sit brood over his lost child , Almas come before him and say : ' O father mine !
the daughter of King Quimus have do my two brother to death ; I wish to avenge them upon her . '
These word bring his father to tear . '
O light of your father ! '
he cry , ' I have no one leave but you , and now you ask me to let you go to your death . '
` Dear father ! '
plead the prince , ` until I have lower the pride of that beauty , and have set her here before you , I can not settle down or indeed sit down off my foot . '
In the end he , too , get leave to go ; but he go a without a following and alone .
Like his brother , he make the long journey to the city of Quimus the son of Timus ; like them he saw the citadel , but he saw there the head of Tahmasp and Qamas .
He go about in the city , saw the tent and the drum , and then go out again to a village not far off .
Here he find out a very old man who have a wife 120 year old , or rather more .
Their life be come to their end , but they have never behold face of child of their own .
They be glad when the prince come to their house , and they deal with him a with a son .
He put all his belonging into their charge , and fasten his horse in their out-house .
Then he ask them not to speak of him to anyone , and to keep his affair secret .
He exchange his royal dress for another , and next morning , just a the sun look forth from it eastern oratory , he go again into the city .
He turn over in his mind without cease how he be to find out the meaning of the riddle , and to give them a right answer , and who could help him , and how to avenge his brother .
He wander about the city , but hear nothing of service , for there be no one in all that land who understand the riddle of Princess Mihr-afruz .
One day he think he would go to her own palace and see if he could learn anything there , so he go out to her garden-house .
It be a very splendid place , with a wonderful gateway , and wall like Alexander 's rampart .
Many gate-keepers be on guard , and there be no chance of pass them .
His heart be full of bitterness , but he say to himself : ` All will be well !
it be here I shall get what I want . '
He go round outside the garden wall hop to find a gap , and he make supplication in the Court of Supplications and pray , ' O Holder of the hand of the helpless !
show me my way . '
While he pray he bethink himself that he could get into the garden with a stream of inflowing water .
He look carefully round , fear to be see , strip , slide into the stream and be carry within the great wall .
There he hide himself till his loin cloth be dry .
The garden be a very Eden , with running water amongst it lawn , with flower and the lament of dove and the jug-jug of nightingale .
It be a place to steal the sens from the brain , and he wander about and saw the house , but there seem to be no one there .
In the forecourt be a royal seat of polished jasper , and in the middle of the platform be a basin of pure water that flash like a mirror .
He please himself with these sight for a while , and then go back to the garden and hid himself from the gardener and pass the night .
Next morning he put on the appearance of a madman and wander about till he come to a lawn where several pert-faced girl be amuse themselves .
On a throne , jewel and overspread with silken stuff , sit a girl the splendour of whose beauty light up the place , and whose ambergris and attar perfume the whole air .
` That must be Mihrafruz , ' he think , ` she be indeed lovely . '
Just then one of the attendant come to the water 's edge to fill a cup , and though the prince be in hiding , his face be reflect in the water .
When she saw this image she be frighten , and let her cup fall into the stream , and think , ` Is it an angel , or a peri , or a man ? '
Fear and tremble take hold of her , and she scream a woman scream .
Then some of the other girl come and take her to the princess who ask : ` What be the matter , pretty one ? ' '
O princess !
I go for water , and I saw an image , and I be afraid . '
So another girl go to the water and saw the same thing , and come back with the same story .
The princess wish to see for herself ; she rise and pace to the spot with the march of a prancing peacock .
When she saw the image she say to her nurse : ` Find out who be reflect in the water , and where he live . '
Her word reach the prince 's ear , he lift up his head ; she saw him and behold beauty such a she have never see before .
She lose a hundred heart to him , and sign to her nurse to bring him to her presence .
The prince let himself be persuade to go with the nurse , but when the princess question him a to who he be and how he have get into her garden , he behave like a man out of his mind -- sometimes smile , sometimes cry , and say : ' I be hungry , ` Or word misplace and random , civil mixed with the rude .
` What a pity ! '
say the princess , ` he be mad ! '
As she like him she say : ` He be my madman ; let no one hurt him . '
She take him to her house and tell him not to go away , for that she would provide for all his want .
The prince think , ` It would be excellent if here , in her very house , I could get the answer to her riddle ; but I must be silent , on pain of death . '
Now in the princess 's household there be a girl call Dil-aram -LSB- 7 -RSB- ; she it be who have first see the image of the prince .
She come to love him very much , and she spend day and night think how she could make her affection know to him .
One day she escape from the princess 's notice and go to the prince , and lay her head on his foot and say : ` Heaven have bestow on you beauty and charm .
Tell me your secret ; who be you , and how do you come here ?
I love you very much , and if you would like to leave this place I will go with you .
I have wealth equal to the treasure of the miserly Qarun . '
But the prince only make answer like a man distraught , and tell her nothing .
He say to himself , ` God forbid that the veil should be take in vain from my secret ; that would indeed disgrace me . '
So , with stream eye and burn breast , Dil-aram arose and go to her house and lament and fret .
Now whenever the princess command the prince 's attendance , Dil-aram , of all the girl , pay him attention and wait on him best .
The princess notice this , and say : ' O Dil-aram !
you must take my madman into your charge and give him whatever he want . '
This be the very thing Dilaram have pray for .
A little late she take the prince into a private place and she make him take an oath of secrecy , and she herself take one and swore , ` By Heaven !
I will not tell your secret .
Tell me all about yourself so that I may help you to get what you want . '
The prince now recognise in her word the perfume of true love , and he make compact with her . '
O lovely girl !
I want to know what the rise do to the cypress .
Your mistress cut off men 's head because of this riddle ; what be at the bottom of it , and why do she do it ? '
Then Dil-aram answer : ` If you will promise to marry me and to keep me always amongst those you favour , I will tell you all I know , and I will keep watch about the riddle . ' '
O lovely girl , ' rejoin he , ` if I accomplish my purpose , so that I need no longer strive for it , I will keep my compact with you .
When I have this woman in my power and have avenge my brother , I will make you my solace . ' '
O wealth of my life and source of my joy ! '
respond Dil-aram , ' I do not know what the rise do to the cypress ; but so much I know that the person who tell Mihr-afruz about it be a negro whom she hide under her throne .
He flee here from Waq of the Caucasus -- it be there you must make inquiry ; there be no other way of get at the truth .
` On hear these word , the prince say to his heart , ' O my heart !
your task will yet wear away much of your life . '
He fell into long and far think , and Dil-aram look at him and say : ' O my life and my soul !
do not be sad .
If you would like this woman kill , I will put poison into her cup so that she will never lift her head from her drugged sleep again . ' '
O Dil-aram !
such a vengeance be not manly .
I shall not rest till I have go to Waq of the Caucasus and have clear up the matter . '
Then they repeat the agreement about their marriage , and bid one another goodbye .
The prince now go back to the village , and tell the old man that he be set out on a long journey , and beg him not to be anxious , and to keep safe the good which have be entrust to him .
The prince have not the least knowledge of the way to Waq of the Caucasus , and be cast down by the sense of his helplessness .
He be walk along by his horse 's side when there appear before him an old man of serene countenance , dress in green and carry a staff , who resemble Khizr .
-LSB- 8 -RSB- The prince thank heaven , lay the hand of reverence on his breast and salaam .
The old man return the greeting graciously , and ask : ` How fare you ?
Whither be you bound ?
You look like a traveller . ' '
O revere saint !
I be in this difficulty : I do not know the way to Waq of the Caucasus . '
The old man of good counsel look at the young prince and say : ` Turn back from this dangerous undertaking .
Do not go ; choose some other task !
If you have a hundred life you would not bring one out safe from this journey . '
But his word have no effect on the prince 's resolve .
` What object have you , ' the old man ask , ` in thus consume your life ? ' '
I have an important piece of business to do , and only this journey make it possible .
I must go ; I pray you , ill God 's name , tell me the way . '
When the saint saw that the prince be not to be move , he say : ` Learn and know , O youth !
that Waq of Qaf be in the Caucasus and be a dependency of it .
In it there be jins , demon , and peri .
You must go on along this road till it fork into three ; take neither the right hand nor the left , but the middle path .
Follow this for a day and a night .
Then you will come to a column on which be a marble slab inscribe with Cufic character .
Do what be write there ; beware of disobedience . '
Then he give his good wish for the journey and his blessing , and the prince kiss his foot , say good-bye , and , with thanks to the Causer of Causes , take the road .
After a day and a night he saw the column rise in silent beauty to the heaven .
Everything be a the wise old man have say it would be , and the prince , who be skilled in all tongue , read the following Cufic inscription : ' O traveller !
be it know to you that this column have be set up with it tablet to give true direction about these road .
If a man would pass his life in ease and pleasantness , let him take the right-hand path .
If he take the left , he will have some trouble , but he will reach his goal without much delay .
Woe to him who choose the middle path !
if he have a thousand live he would not save one ; it be very hazardous ; it lead to the Caucasus , and be an endless road .
Beware of it ! '
The prince read and bar his head and lift his hand in supplication to Him who have no need , and pray , ' O Friend of the traveller !
I , Thy servant , come to Thee for succour .
My purpose lie in the land of Qaf and my road be full of peril .
Lead me by it . '
Then he take a handful of earth and cast it on his collar , and say : ' O earth !
be thou my grave ; and O vest !
tee thou my winding-sheet ! '
Then he take the middle road and go along it , day after day , with many a silent prayer , till he saw tree rise from the weary waste of sand .
They grow in a garden , and he go up to the gate and find it a slab of beautifully work marble , and that near it there lay sleeping , with his head on a stone , a negro whose face be so black that it make darkness round him .
His upper lip , arch like an eyebrow , curve upwards to his nostril and his low hung down like a camel 's .
Four millstone form his shield , and on a box-tree close by hung his giant sword .
His loin-cloth be fashion of twelve skin of beast , and be bind round his waist by a chain of which each link be as big a an elephant 's thigh .
The prince approach and tie up his horse near the negro 's head .
Then he let fall the Bismillah from his lip , enter the garden and walk through it till he come to the private part , delight in the great tree , the lovely verdure , and the flowery border .
In the inner garden there be very many deer .
These sign to him with eye and foot to go back , for that this be enchant ground ; but he do not understand them , and think their pretty gesture be a welcome .
After a while he reach a palace which have a porch more splendid than Caesar 's , and be build of gold and silver brick .
In it midst be a high seat , overlay with fine carpet , and into it open eight door , each have opposite to it a marble basin .
Banishing care , Prince Almas walk on through the garden , when suddenly a window open and a girl , who be lovely enough to make the moon writhe with jealousy , put out her head .
She lose her heart to the good look of the prince , and send her nurse to fetch him so that she might learn where he come from and how he have get into her private garden where even lion and wolf do not venture .
The nurse go , and be strike with amazement at the sun-like radiance of his face ; she salaam and say : ' O youth !
welcome !
the lady of the garden call you ; come ! '
He go with her and into a palace which be like a house in Paradise , and saw seat on the royal carpet of the throne a girl whose brilliance sham the shin sun .
He salaam ; she rise , take him by the hand and place him near her . '
O young man !
who be you ?
Where do you come from ?
How do you get into this garden ? '
He tell her his story from begin to end , and Lady Latifa -LSB- 9 -RSB- reply : ` This be folly !
It will make you a vagabond of the earth , and lead you to destruction .
Come , cease such talk !
No one can go to the Caucasus .
Stay with me and be thankful , for here be a throne which you can share with me , and in my society you can enjoy my wealth .
I will do whatever you wish ; I will bring here King Qulmus and his daughter , and you can deal with them a you will . ' '
O Lady Latifa , ' he say , ' I have make a compact with heaven not to sit down off my foot till I have be to Waq of Qaf and have clear up this matter , and have take Mihrafruz from her father , a brave men take , and have put her in prison .
When I have do all this I will come back to you in state and with a great following , and I will marry you accord to the law . '
Lady Latifa argue and urge her wish , but in vain ; the prince be not to be move .
Then she call to the cupbearer for new wine , for she think that when his head be hot with it he might consent to stay .
The pure , clear wine be bring ; she fill a cup and give to him .
He say : ' O most enchanting sweetheart !
it be the rule for the host to drink first and then the guest . '
So to make him lose his head , she drain the cup ; then fill it again and give him .
He drink it off , and she take a lute from one of the singer and play upon it with skill which witch away the sense of all who hear .
But it be all in vain ; three day pass in such festivity , and on the fourth the prince say : ' O joy of my eye !
I beg now that you will bid me farewell , for my way be long and the fire of your love dart flame into the harvest of my heart .
By heaven 's grace I may accomplish my purpose , and , if so , I will come back to you . '
Now she saw that she could not in any way change his resolve , she tell her nurse to bring a certain casket which contain , she say , something exhilarate which would help the prince on his journey .
The box be bring , and she divide off a portion of what be within and give it to the prince to eat .
Then , and while he be all unaware , she put forth her hand to a stick fashion like a snake ; she say some word over it and strike him so sharply on the shoulder that he cry out ; then he make a pirouette and find that he be a deer .
When he know what have be do to him he think , ` All the thread of affliction be gather together ; I have lose my last chance ! '
He try to escape , but the magician sent for her goldsmith , who , come , overlay the deer-horns with gold and jewel .
The kerchief which that day she have have in her hand be then tie round it neck , and this free it from her attention .
The prince-deer now bound into the garden and at once seek some way of escape .
It find none , and it join the other deer , which soon make it their leader .
Now , although the prince have be transform into the form of a deer , he keep his man 's heart and mind .
He say to himself , ` Thank heaven that the Lady Latifa have change me into this shape , for at least deer be beautiful . '
He remain for some time living a a deer amongst the rest , but at length resolve that an end to such a life must be put ill some way .
He look again for some place by which he could get out of the magic garden .
Following round the wall he reach a low part ; he remember the Divine Names and flung himself over , say , ` Whatever happens be by the will of God . '
When he look about he find that he be in the very same place he have jump from ; there be the palace , there the garden and the deer !
Eight time he leap over the wall and eight time find himself where he have start from ; but after the ninth leap there be a change , there be a palace and there be a garden , but the deer be go .
Presently a girl of such moon-like beauty open a window that the prince lose to her a hundred heart .
She be delight with the beautiful deer , and cry to her nurse : ` Catch it !
if you will I will give you this necklace , every pearl of which be worth a kingdom . '
The nurse covet the pearl , but a she be three hundred year old she do not know how she could catch a deer .
However , she go down into the garden and hold out some grass , but when she go near the creature run away .
The girl watch with great excitement from the palace window , and call : ' O nurse , if you do n't catch it , I will kill you ! ' '
I be kill myself , ' shout back the old woman .
The girl saw that nurse totter along and go down to help , march with the gait of a prancing peacock .
When she saw the gilded horn and the kerchief she say : ` It must be accustom to the hand , and be some royal pet ! '
The prince have it in mind that this might be another magician who could give him some other shape , but still it seem best to allow himself to be catch .
So he play about the girl and let her catch him by the neck .
A leash be bring , fruit be give , and it be caress with delight .
It be take to the palace and tie at the foot of the Lady Jamila 's raise seat , but she order a longer cord to be bring so that it might be able to jump up beside her .
When the nurse go to fix the cord she saw tear fall from it eye , and that it be deject and sorrowful ' O Lady Jamila !
this be a wonderful deer , it be cry ; I never saw a deer cry before . '
Jamila dart down like a flash of lightning , and saw that it be so .
It rub it head on her foot and then shake it so sadly that the girl cry for sympathy .
She pat it and say : ` Why be you sad , my heart ?
Why do you cry , my soul ?
Is it because I have catch you ?
I love you good than my own life . '
But , spite of her comforting , it cry the more .
Then Jamila say : ` Unless I be mistaken , this be the work of my wicked sister Latifa , who by magic art turn servant of God into beast of the field . '
At these word the deer utter sound , and lay it head on her foot .
Then Jamila be sure it be a man , and say : ` Be comfort , I will restore you to your own shape . '
She bath herself and order the deer to be bath , put on clean raiment , call for a box which stand in an alcove , open it and give a portion of what be in it to the deer to eat .
Then she slip her hand under her carpet and produce a stick to which she say something .
She strike the deer hard , it pirouette and become Prince Almas .
The broidered kerchief and the jewel lay upon the ground .
The prince prostrate himself in thanks to heaven and Jamila , and say : ' O delicious person !
O Chinese Venus !
how shall I excuse myself for give you so much trouble ?
With what word can I thank you ? '
Then she call for a clothes-wallet and choose out a royal dress of honour .
Her attendant dress him in it , and bring him again before the tender-hearted lady .
She turn to him a hundred heart , take his hand and seat him beside her , and say : ' O youth !
tell me truly who you be and where you come from , and how you fell into the power of my sister . '
Even when he be a deer the prince have much admire Jamila now he think her a thousand time more lovely than before .
He judge that in truth alone be safety , and so tell her his whole story .
Then she ask : ' O Prince Almas-ruh-bakhsh , do you still wish so much to make this journey to Waq of Qaf ?
What hope be there in it ?
The road be dangerous even near here , and this be not yet the borderland of the Caucasus .
Come , give it up !
It be a great risk , and to go be not wise .
It would be a pity for a man like you to fall into the hand of jins and demon .
Stay with me , and I will do whatever you wish . ' '
O most delicious person ! '
he answer , ` you be very generous , and the choice of my life lie in truth in your hand ; but I beg one favour of you .
If you love me , so do I too love you .
If you really love me , do not forbid me to make this journey , but help me as far a you can .
Then it may be that I shall succeed , and if I return with my purpose fulfil I will marry you accord to the law , and take you to my own country , and we will spend the rest of our life together in pleasure and good companionship .
Help me , if you can , and give me your counsel . ' '
O very stuff of my life , ' reply Jamila ' I will give you thing that be not in king ' treasury , and which will be of the great use to you .
First , there be the bow and arrow of his Reverence the Prophet Salih .
Secondly , there be the Scorpion of Solomon -LRB- on whom be peace -RRB- , which be a sword such a no king have ; steel and stone be one to it ; if you bring it down on a rock it will not be injure , and it will cleave whatever you strike .
Thirdly , there be the dagger which the sage Timus himself make ; this be most useful , and the man who wear it would not bend under seven camel ' load .
What you have to do first be to get to the home of the Simurgh , -LSB- 10 -RSB- and to make friend with him .
If he favour you , he will take you to Waq of Qaf ; if not , you will never get there , for seven sea be on the way , and they be such sea that if all the king of the earth , and all their wazirs , and all their wise men consider for a thousand year , they would not be able to cross them . ' '
O most delicious person !
where be the Simurgh 's home ?
How shall I get there ? ' '
O new fruit of life !
you must just do what I tell you , and you must use your eye and your brain , for if you do n't you will find yourself at the place of the negro , who be a bloodthirsty set ; and God forbid they should lay hand on your precious person . '
Then she take the bow and quiver of arrow , the sword , and the dagger out of a box , and the prince let fall a Bismillah , and gird them all on .
Then Jamila of the houri-face , produce two saddle-bags of ruby-red silk , one fill with roasted fowl and little cake , and the other with stone of price .
Next she give him a horse as swift a the breeze of the morning , and she say : ` Accept all these thing from me ; ride till you come to a rise ground , at no great distance from here , where there be a spring .
It be call the Place of Gifts , and you must stay there one night .
There you will see many wild beast -- lion , tiger , leopard , ape , and so on .
Before you get there you must capture some game .
On the long road beyond there dwell a lion-king , alla if other beast do not fear him they would ravage the whole country and let no one pas .
The lion be a red transgressor , so when he come rise and do him reverence ; take a cloth and rub the dust and earth from his face , then set the game you have take before him , well cleanse , and lay the hand of respect on your breast .
When he wish to eat , take your knife and cut piece of the meat and set them before him with a bow .
In this way you will enfold that lion-king in perfect friendship , and he will be most useful to you , and you will be safe from molestation by the negro .
When you go on from the Place of Gifts , be sure you do not take the right-hand road ; take the left , for the other lead by the negro castle , which be know a the Place of Clashing Swords , and where there be forty negro captain each over three thousand or four thousand more .
Their chief be Taramtaq .
-LSB- 11 -RSB- Further on than this be the home of the Simurgh . '
Having store these thing in the prince 's memory , she say : ` You will see everything happen just a I have say . '
Then she escort him a little way ; they part , and she go home to mourn his absence .
Prince Almas , rely on the Causer of Causes , rode on to the Place of Gifts and dismount at the platform .
Everything happen just a Jamila have foretell ; when one or two watch of the night have pass , he saw that the open ground around him be full of such stately and splendid animal a he have never see before .
By-and-by , they make way for a wonderfully big lion , which be eighty yard from nose to tail-tip , and be a magnificent creature .
The prince advance and salute it ; it proudly droop it head and forelock and pace to the platform .
Seventy or eighty others be with it , and now encircle it at a little distance .
It lay it right paw over it left , and the prince take the kerchief Jamila have give him for the purpose , and rub the dust and earth from it face ; then bring forward the game he have prepare , and cross his hand respectfully on his breast stand wait before it .
When it wish for food he cut off piece of the meat and put them in it mouth .
The serving lion also come near and the prince would have stay his hand , but the king-lion sign to him to fee them too .
This he do , lay the meat on the platform .
Then the king-lion beckon the prince to come near and say : ` Sleep at ease ; my guard will watch . '
.
So , surround by the lion-guard , he sleep till dawn , when the king lion say good-bye , and give him a few of his own hair and say : ` When you be in any difficulty , burn one of these and I will be there . '
Then it go off into the jungle .
Prince Almas immediately start ; he ride till he come to the parting of the way .
He remember quite well that the right-hand way be short and dangerous , but he bethink himself too that whatever be write on his forehead would happen , and take the forbidden road .
By-and-by he saw a castle , and know from what Jamila have tell him that it be the Place of Clashing Swords .
He would have like to go back by the way ho have come , but courage forbade , and he say , ` What have be preordain from eternity will happen to me , ' and go on towards the castle .
He be think of tie his horse to a tree which grow near the gate when a negro come out and spy him .
` Ha ! '
say the wretch to himself , ` this be good ; Taram-taq have not eat man-meat for a long time , and be crave for some .
I will take this creature to him . '
He take hold of the prince 's rein , and say : ` Dismount , man-child !
Come to my master .
He have want to eat man-meat this long time back . '
` What nonsense be you say ? '
say the prince , and other such word .
When the negro understood that he be be abuse , he cry : ` Come along !
I will put you into such a state that the bird of the air will weep for you . '
Then the prince draw the Scorpion of Solomon and strike him -- strike him on the leathern belt and shore him through so that the sword come out on the other side .
He stand upright for a little while , mutter some word , put out his hand to seize the prince , then fell in two and surrender his life .
There be water close at hand , and the prince make his ablution , and then say : ' O my heart !
a wonderful task lie upon you . '
A second negro come out of the fort , and see what have be do , go back and tell his chief .
Others wish to be double , and go out , and of every one the Scorpion of Solomon make two .
Then Taram-taq send for a giant negro name Chil-maq , who in the day of battle be worth three hundred , and say to him : ' I shall thank you to fetch me that man . '
Chil-maq go out , tall a a tower , and bear a shield of eight millstone , and a he walk he shout : ` Ho !
blunder-head !
by what right do you come to our country and kill our people ?
Come !
make two of me . '
As the prince be despicable in his eye , he toss aside his club and rush to grip him with his hand .
He catch him by the collar , tuck him under his arm and set off with him to Taram-taq .
But the prince draw the dagger of Timus and thrust it upwards through the giant 's armpit , for it full length .
This make Chil-maq drop him and try to pick up his club ; but when he stoop the mighty sword shore him through at the waist .
When news of his champion 's death reach Taram-taq he put himself at the head of an army of his negro and lead them forth .
Many fell before the magic sword , and the prince labour on in spite of weakness and fatigue till he be almost wear out .
In a moment of respite from attack he strike his fire-steel and burn a hair of the king-lion ; and he have just succeed in this when the negro charge again and all but take him prisoner .
Suddenly from behind the distant veil of the desert appear an army of lion lead by their king .
` What bring these scourge of heaven here ? '
cry the negro .
They come roar up , and put fresh life into the prince .
He fought on , and when he strike on a belt the wearer fell in two , and when on a head he cleave to the waist .
Then the ten thousand mighty lion join the fray and tore in piece man and horse .
Taram-taq be leave alone ; he would have retire into his fort , but the prince shout : ` Whither away , accurse one ?
Are you flee before me ? '
At these defiant word the chief shout back , ` Welcome , man !
Come here and I will soften you to wax beneath my club . '
Then he hurl his club at the prince 's head , but it fell harmless because the prince have quickly spur his horse forward .
The chief , believe he have hit him , be look down for him , when all at once he come up behind and cleave him to the waist and send him straight to hell .
The king-lion greatly praise the dashing courage of Prince Almas .
They go together into the Castle of Clashing Swords and find it adorn and fit in princely fashion .
In it be a daughter of Taram taq , still a child She send a message to Prince Almas say , ' O king of the world !
choose this slave to be your handmaid .
Keep her with you ; where you go , there she will go ! '
He send for her and she kiss his foot and receive the Mussulman faith at his hand .
He tell her he be go a long journey on important business , and that when he come back he would take her and her possession to his own country , but that for the present she must stay in the castle .
Then he make over the fort and all that be in it to the care of the lion , say : ` Guard them , brother !
let no one lay a hand on them . '
He say goodbye , choose a fresh horse from the chief 's stable and once again take the road .
After travel many stage and for many day , he reach a plain of marvellous beauty and refreshment .
It be carpet with flower -- rose , tulip , and clover ; it have lovely lawns , and amongst them run water .
This choice place of earth fill him with wonder .
There be a tree such a he have never see before ; it branch be alike , but it bore flower and fruit of a thousand kind .
Near it a reservoir have be fashion of four sort of stone -- touchstone , pure stone , marble , and loadstone .
In and out of it flow water like attar .
The prince felt sure this must be the place of the Simurgh . '
he dismount , turn his horse loose to graze , eat some of the food Jamila have give him , drank of the stream and lay down to sleep .
He be still doze when he be arouse by the neighing and pawing of his horse .
When he could see clearly he make out a mountain-like dragon whose heavy breast crush the stone beneath it into putty .
He remember the Thousand Names of God and take the bow of Salih from it case and three arrow from their quiver .
He bind the dagger of Timus firmly to his waist and hang the scorpion of Solomon round his neck .
Then he set an arrow on the string and release it with such force that it go in at the monster 's eye right up to the notch .
The dragon writhe on itself , and belch forth an evil vapour , and beat the ground with it head till the earth quake .
Then the prince take a second arrow and shot into it throat .
It draw in it breath and would have suck the prince into it maw , but when he be within striking distance he draw his sword and , have commit himself to God , strike a mighty blow which cut the creature 's neck down to the gullet .
The foul vapour of the beast and horror at it strangeness now overcome the prince , and he faint .
When he come to himself he find that he be drench in the gore of the dead monster .
He rise and thank God for his deliverance .
The nest of the Simurgh be in the wonderful tree above him , and in it be young bird ; the parent be away search for food .
They always tell the child , before they leave them , not to put their head out of the nest ; but , to-day , at the noise of the fight below , they look down and so saw the whole affair .
By the time the dragon have be kill they be very hungry and set up a clamour for food .
The prince therefore cut up the dragon and feed them with it , bit by bit , till they have eat the whole .
He then wash himself and lay down to rest , and he be still asleep when the Simurgh come home .
As a rule , the young bird raise a clamour of welcome when their parent come near , but on this day they be so full of dragon-meat that they have no choice , they have to go to sleep .
As they fly nearer , the old bird saw the prince lie under the tree and no sign of life in the nest .
They think that the misfortune which for so many early year have befall them have again happen and that their nestling have disappear .
They have never be able to find out the murderer , and now suspect the prince .
` He have eat our child and sleep after it ; he must die , ' say the father-bird , and fly back to the hill and claw up a huge stone which he mean to let fall on the prince 's head .
But his mate say , ` Let u look into the nest first for to kill an innocent person would condemn u at the Day of Resurrection . '
They fly nearer , and presently the young bird wake and cry , ` Mother , what have you bring for u ? '
and they tell the whole story of the fight , and of how they be alive only by the favour of the young man under the tree , and of his cut up the dragon and of their eating it .
The mother-bird then remark , ` Truly , father !
you be about to do a strange thing , and a terrible sin have be avert from you . '
Then the Simurgh fly off to a distance with the great stone and drop it .
It sink down to the very middle of the earth .
Coming back , the Simurgh saw that a little sunshine fell upon the prince through the leaf , and it spread it wing and shade him till he wake .
When he get up he salaam to it , who return his greeting with joy and gratitude , and caress him and say : ' O youth , tell me true !
who be you , and where be you go ?
And how do you cross that pitiless desert where never yet foot of man have tread ? '
The prince tell his story from begin to end , and finish by say : ` Now it be my heart 's wish that you should help me to get to Waq of the Caucasus .
Perhaps , by your favour , I shall accomplish my task and avenge my brother . '
In reply the Simurgh . '
first bless the deliverer of his child , and then go on : ` What you have do no child of man have ever do before ; you assuredly have a claim on all my help , for every year up till now that dragon have come here and have destroy my nestling , and I have never be able to find who be the murderer and to avenge myself .
By God 's grace you have remove my child 's powerful foe .
I regard you a a child of my own .
Stay with me ; I will give you everything you desire , and I will establish a city here for you , and will furnish it with every requisite ; I will give you the land of the Caucasus , and will make it prince subject to you .
Give up the journey to Waq , it be full of risk , and the jins there will certainly kill you . '
But nothing could move the prince , and see this the bird go on : ` Well , so be it !
When you wish to set forth you must go into the plain and take seven head of deer , and must make water-tight bag of their hide and keep their flesh in seven portion .
Seven sea lie on our way -- I will carry you over them ; but if I have not food and drink we shall fall into the sea and be drown .
When I ask for it you must put food and water into my mouth .
So we shall make the journey safely . '
The prince do all a he be tell , then they take flight ; they cross the seven sea , and at each one the prince feed the Simurgh When they alight on the shore of the last sea , it say : ' O my son !
there lie your road ; follow it to the city .
Take thee three feather of mine , and , if you be in a difficulty , burn one and I will be with you in the twinkling of an eye . '
The prince walk on in solitude till he reach the city .
He go in and wander about through all quarter , and through bazaar and lane and square , in the least knowing from whom he could ask information about the riddle of Mihr-afruz .
He spend seven day think it over in silence .
From the first day of his come he have make friend with a young cloth-merchant , and a great liking have spring up between them .
One day he say abruptly to his companion : ' O dear friend !
I wish you would tell me what the rise do to the cypress , and what the sense of the riddle be . '
The merchant start , and exclaim : ` If there be not brotherly affection between u , I would cut off your head for ask me this ! '
` If you mean to kill me , ' retort the prince , ` you would still have first to tell me what I want to know . '
When the merchant saw that the prince be in deadly earnest , he say : ` If you wish to hear the truth of the matter you must wait upon our king .
There be no other way ; no one else will tell you .
I have a well-wisher at the Court , name Farrukh-fal , -LSB- 12 -RSB- and will introduce you to him . '
` That would be excellent , ' cry the prince .
A meeting be arrange between Farrukhfal and Almas , and then the amir take him to the king 's presence and introduce him a a stranger and traveller who have come from afar to sit in the shadow of King Sinaubar .
Now the Simurgh have give the prince a diamond weigh thirty misqals , and he order this to the king , who at once recognise it value , and ask where it have be obtain .
` I , your slave , once have rich and state and power ; there be many such stone in my country .
On my way here I be plunder at the Castle of Clashing Swords , and I save this one thing only , hide in my bathing-cloth . '
In return for the diamond , King Sinaubar shower gift of much great value , for he remember that it be the last possession of the prince .
He show the utmost kindness and hospitality , and give his wazir order to instal the prince in the royal guest-house .
He take much pleasure in his visitor 's society ; they be together every day and spend the time most pleasantly .
Several time the king say : ` Ask me for something , that I may give it you .
` One day he so press to know what would pleasure the prince , that the latter say : ' I have only one wish , and that I will name to you in private . '
The king at once command every one to withdraw , and then Prince Almas say : ` The desire of my life be to know what the rise do to the cypress , and what meaning there be in the word . '
The king be astound .
` In God 's name !
if anyone else have say that to me I should have cut off his head instantly . '
The prince heard this in silence , and presently so beguile the king with pleasant talk that to kill him be impossible .
Time flew by , the king again and again beg the prince to ask some gift of him , and always receive this same reply : ' I wish for your Majesty 's welfare , what more can I desire ?
` One night there be a banquet , and cupbearer carry round gold and silver cup of sparkle wine , and singer with sweet voice contend for the prize .
The prince drank from the king 's own cup , and when his head be hot with wine he take a lute from one of the musician and place himself on the carpet border and sang and sang till he witch away the sense of all who listen .
Applause and compliment ring from every side .
The king fill his cup and call the prince and give it him and say : ` Name your wish !
it be yours . '
The prince drain off the wine and answer : ' O king of the world !
learn and know that I have only one aim in life , and this be to know what the rise do to the cypress . '
` Never yet , ' reply the king , ` have any man come out from that question alive .
If this be your only wish , so be it ; I will tell you .
But I will do this on one condition only , namely , that when you have hear you will submit yourself to death . '
To this the prince agree , and say : ' I set my foot firmly on this compact . '
The king then give an order to an attendant ; a costly carpet overlay with European velvet be place near him , and a dog be lead in by a golden and jewel chain and set upon the splendid stuff .
A band of fair girl come in and stand round it in wait .
Then , with ill word , twelve negro drag in a lovely woman , fetter on hand and foot and meanly dress , and they set her down on the bare floor .
She be extraordinarily beautiful , and sham the glorious sun .
The king order a hundred stripe to be lay on her tender body ; she sigh a long sigh .
Food be call for and table-cloths be spread .
Delicate meat be set before the dog , and water give it in a royal cup of Chinese crystal .
When it have eat it fill , it leaving be place before the lovely woman and she be make to eat of them .
She weep and her tear be pearl ; she smile and her lip shed rose .
Pearls and flower be gather up and take to the treasury .
` Now , ' say the king , ` you have see these thing and your purpose be fulfil . '
` Truly , ' say the prince , ' I have see thing which I have not understand ; what do they mean , and what be the story of them ?
Tell me and kill me . '
Then say the king : ` The woman you see there in chain be my wife ; she be call Gul , the Rose , and I be Sinaubar , the Cypress .
One day I be hunt and become very thirsty .
After great search I discover a well in a place so secret that neither bird nor beast nor man could find it without labour .
I be alone , I take my turban for a rope and my cap for a bucket .
There be a good deal of water , but when I let down my rope , something catch it , and I could not in any way draw it back .
I shout down into the well : `` O !
servant of God !
whoever you be , why do you deal unfairly with me ?
I be die of thirst , let go !
in God 's name . ''
A cry come up in answer , `` O servant of God !
we have be in the well a long time ; in God 's name get u out ! ''
After try a thousand scheme , I draw up two blind woman .
They say they be peri , and that their king have blind them in his anger and have leave them in the well alone . '
`` Now , '' they say , `` if you will get u the cure for our blindness we will devote ourselves to your service , and will do whatever you wish . '' '
`` What be the cure for your blindness ? '' '
`` Not far from this place , '' they say , `` a cow come up from the great sea to graze ; a little of her dung would cure u .
We should be eternally your debtor .
Do not let the cow see you , or she will assuredly kill you . ''
` With renew strength and spirit I go to the shore .
There I watch the cow come up from the sea , graze , and go back .
Then I come out of my hiding , take a little of her dung and convey it to the peri .
They rub it on their eye , and by the Divine might saw again .
` They thank heaven and me , and then consider what they could do to show their gratitude to me .
`` Our peri-king , '' they say , `` have a daughter whom he keep under his own eye and think the most lovely girl on earth .
In good sooth , she have not her equal !
Now we will get you into her house and you must win her heart , and if she have an inclination for another , you must drive it out and win her for yourself .
Her mother love her so dearly that she have no ease but in her presence , and she will give her to no one in marriage .
Teach her to love you so that she can not exist without you .
But if the matter become know to her mother she will have you burn in the fire .
Then you must beg , a a last favour , that your body may be anoint with oil so that you may burn the more quickly and be spar torture .
If the peri-king allow this favour , we two will manage to be your anointer , and we will put an oil on you such that if you be a thousand year in the fire not a trace of burn would remain . ''
` In the end the two peri take me to the girl 's house .
I saw her sleep daintily .
She be most lovely , and I be so amaze at the perfection of her beauty that I stand with sens lose , and do not know if she be real or a dream .
When at last I saw that she be a real girl , I return thanks that I , the runner , have come to my goal , and that I , the seeker , have find my treasure .
` When the peri open her eye she ask in affright : `` Who be you ?
Have you come to steal ?
How do you get here ?
Be quick !
save yourself from this whirlpool of destruction , for the demon and peri .
who guard me will wake and seize you . ''
` But love 's arrow have strike me deep , and the girl , too , look kindly on me .
I could not go away .
For some month I remain hidden in her house .
` We do not dare to let her mother know of our love .
Sometimes the girl be very sad and fearful l her mother should come to know .
One day her father say to her : `` Sweetheart , for some time I have notice that your beauty be not what it be .
How be this ?
Has sickness touch you ?
Tell me that I may seek a cure . ''
Alas !
there be now no way of conceal the mingle delight and anguish of our love ; from secret it become know .
I be put in prison and the world grow dark to my rise , bereft of her lover .
` The peri-king order me to be burn , and say : `` Why have you , a man , do this perfidious thing in my house ? ''
His demon and peri .
collect amber-wood and make a pile , and would have set me on it , when I remember the word of life which the two peri .
I have rescue have breathe into my ear , and I ask that my body might be rub with oil to release me the sooner from torture .
This be allow , and those two contrive to be the anointer .
I be put into the fire and it be keep up for seven day and night .
By the will of the Great King it leave no trace upon me .
At the end of a week the pert-king order the ash to be cast upon the dust-heap , and I be find alive and unharmed .
` Peris who have see Gul consume by her love for me now intercede with the king , and say : `` It be clear that your daughter 's fortune be bind up with his , for the fire have not hurt him .
It be best to give him the girl , for they love one another .
He be King of Waq of Qaf , and you will find none well . ''
` To this the king agree , and make formal marriage between Gul and me .
You now know the price I pay for this faithless creature .
O prince !
remember our compact . ' '
I remember , ' say the prince ; ` but tell me what bring Queen Gul to her present pas ? '
` One night , ' continue King Sinaubar , ' I be arouse by feel Gul 's hand and foot , deadly cold , against my body .
I ask her where she have be to get so cold , and she say she have have to go out .
Next morning , when I go to my stable I saw that two of my horse , Windfoot and Tiger , be thin and wear out .
I reprimand the groom and beat him .
He ask where his fault lay , and say that every night my wife take one or other of these horse and ride away , and come back only just before dawn .
A flame kindle in my heart , and I ask myself where she could go and what she could do .
I tell the groom to be silent , and when next Gul take a horse from the stable to saddle another quickly and bring it to me .
That day I do not hunt , but stay at home to follow the matter up .
I lay down as usual at night and pretend to fall asleep .
When I seem safely off Gul get up and go to the stable a her custom be .
That night it be Tiger 's turn .
She ride off on him , and I take Windfoot and follow .
With me go that dog you see , a faithful friend who never leave me .
` When I come to the foot of those hill which lie outside the city I saw Gul dismount and go towards a house which some negro have build there .
Over against the door be a high seat , and on it lay a giant negro , before whom she salaam .
He get up and beat her till she be mark with weal , but she utter no complaint .
I be dumfounded , for once when I have strike her with a rise stalk she have complain and fret for three day !
Then the negro say to her : `` How now , ugly one and shaven head !
Why be you so late , and why be you not wear wed garment ? ''
She answer him : `` That person do not go to sleep quickly , and he stay at home all day , so that I be not able to adorn myself .
I come as soon a I could . ''
In a little while he call her to sit beside him ; but this be more than I could bear .
I lose control of myself and rush upon him .
He clutch my collar and we grapple in a death struggle .
Suddenly she come behind me , catch my foot and throw me .
While he hold me on the ground , she draw out my own knife and give it to him .
I should have be kill but for that faithful dog which seize his throat and pull him down and pin him to the ground .
Then I get up and despatch the wretch .
There be four other negro at the place ; three I kill and the fourth get away , and have take refuge beneath the throne of Mihr-afruz , daughter of King Quimus .
I take Gul back to my palace , and from that time till now I have treat her a a dog be treat , and I have care for my dog a though it be my wife .
Now you know what the rise do to the cypress ; and now you must keep compact with me . ' '
I shall keep my word , ' say the prince ; ` but may a little water be take to the roof so that I may make my last ablution ? '
To this request the king consent .
The prince mount to the roof , and , get into a corner , strike his fire-steel and burn one of the Sirurgh 's feather in the flame .
Straightway it appear , and by the majesty of it presence make the city quake .
It take the prince on it back and soar away to the zenith .
After a time King Sinaubar say : ` That young man be a long time on the roof ; go and bring him here . '
But there be no sign of the prince upon the roof ; only , far away in the sky , the Simurgh be see carry him off .
When the king heard of his escape he thank heaven that his hand be clean of this blood .
Up and up fly the Simurgh , till earth look like an egg rest on an ocean .
At length it drop straight down to it own place , where the kind prince be welcome by the young bird and most hospitably entertain .
He tell the whole story of the rise and the cypress , and then , laden with gift which the Simurgh have gather from city far and near , he set his face for the Castle of Clashing Swords .
The king-lion come out to meet him ; he take the negro chief 's daughter -- whose name be also Gul -- in lawful marriage , and then march with her and her possession and her attendant to the Place of Gifts .
Here they halt for a night , and at dawn say good-bye to the king-lion and set out for Jamila 's country .
When the Lady Jamila hear that Prince Almas be near , she go out , with many a fair handmaid , to give him love reception .
Their meeting be joyful , and they go together to the garden-palace .
Jamila summon all her notable , and in their presence her marriage with the prince be solemnise .
A few day later she entrust her affair to her wazir , and make preparation to go with the prince to his own country .
Before she start she restore all the men whom her sister , Latifa , have bewitch , to their own form , and receive their blessing , and set them forward to their home .
The wicked Latifa herself she leave quite alone in her garden-house .
When all be ready they set out with all her servant and slave , all her treasure and good , and journey at ease to the city of King Quimus .
When King Quimus heard of the approach of such a great company , he send out his wazir to give the prince honourable meeting , and to ask what have procure him the favour of the visit .
The prince send back word that he have no thought of war , but he write : ` Learn and know , King Quimus , that I be here to end the crime of your insolent daughter who have tyrannously do to death many king and king son , and have hang their head on your citadel .
I be here to give her the answer to her riddle . '
Later on he enter the city , beat boldly on the drum , and be conduct to the presence .
The king entreat him to have nothing to do with the riddle , for that no man have come out of it alive . '
O king ! '
reply the prince , ` it be to answer it that I be here ; I will not withdraw . '
Mihr-afruz be tell that one man more have stake his head on her question , and that this be one who say he know the answer .
At the request of the prince , all the officer and notable of the land be summon to hear his reply to the princess .
All assemble , and the king and his queen Gul-rakh , and the girl and the prince be there .
The prince address Mihr-afruz : ` What be the question you ask ? '
` What do the rise do to the cypress ? '
she rejoin .
The prince smile , and turn and address the assembly .
` You who be experience men and verse in affair , do you ever know or hear and see anything of this matter ? '
` No ! '
they answer , ` no one have ever know or hear or see aught about it ; it be an empty fancy . '
` From whom , then , do the princess hear of it ?
This empty fancy it be that have do many a servant of God to death ! '
All saw the good sense of his word and show their approval .
Then he turn to the princess : ` Tell u the truth , princess ; who tell you of this thing ?
I know it hair by hair , and in and out ; but if I tell you what I know , who be there that can say I speak the truth ?
You must produce the person who can confirm my word . '
Her heart sank , for she fear that her long-kept secret be now to be noise abroad .
But she say merely : ` Explain yourself . ' '
I shall explain myself fully when you bring here the negro whom you hide beneath your throne . '
Here the king shout in wonderment : ` Explain yourself , young man !
What negro do my daughter hide beneath her throne ? '
` That , ' say the prince , ` you will see if you order to be bring here the negro who will be find beneath the throne of the princess . '
Messengers be forthwith despatch to the garden house , and after awhile they return bring a negro whom they have discover in a secret chamber underneath the throne of Mihr-afruz , dress in a dress of honour , and surround with luxury .
The king be overwhelm with astonishment , but the girl have take heart again .
She have have time to think that perhaps the prince have hear of the presence of the negro , and know no more .
So she say haughtily : ` Prince !
you have not answer my riddle . ' '
O most amazingly impudent person , ' cry he , ` do you not yet repent ? '
Then he turn to the people , and tell them the whole story of the rise and the cypress , of King Sinaubar and Queen Gul .
When he come to the killing of the negro , he say to the one who stand before them : ` You , too , be present . '
` That be so ; all happen a you have tell it ! '
There be great rejoicing in the court and all through the country over the solving of the riddle , and because now no more king and prince would be kill .
King Quimus make over his daughter to Prince Almas , but the latter refuse to marry her , and take her a his captive .
He then ask that the head should be remove from the battlement and give decent burial .
This be do .
He receive from the king everything that belong to Mihr-afruz ; her treasure of gold and silver ; her costly stuff and carpet ; her household plenishing ; her horse and camel ; her servant and slave .
Then he return to his camp and send for Dil-aram , who come bring her good and chattel , her gold and her jewel .
When all be ready , Prince Almas set out for home , take with him Jamila , and Dil-aram and Gul , daughter of Taram-taq , and the wicked Mihr-afruz , and all the belonging of the four , pack on horse and camel , and in cart without number .
As he approach the border of his father 's country word of his come go before him , and all the city come forth to give him welcome .
King Saman-lal-posh -- Jessamine , wearer of ruby -- have so bewept the loss of his son that he be now blind .
When the prince have kiss his foot and receive his blessing , he take from a casket a little collyrium of Solomon , which the Simurgh have give him , and which reveal the hidden thing of earth , and rub it on his father 's eye .
Light come , and the king saw his son .
Mihr-afruz be bring before the king , and the prince say : ` This be the murderer of your son ; do with her a you will . '
The king fancy that the prince might care for the girl 's beauty , and reply : ` You have humble her ; do with her a you will . '
Upon this the prince send for four swift and strong horse , and have the negro bound to each one of them ; then each be drive to one of the four quarter , and he tore in piece like muslin .
This frighten Mihr-afruz horribly , for she think the same thing might be do to herself .
She cry out to the prince : ' O Prince Almas !
what be hard to get be most value .
Up till now I have be subject to no man , and no man have have my love .
The many king and king son who have die at my hand have die because it be their fate to die like this .
In this matter I have not sin .
That be their fate from eternity ; and from the begin it be predestine that my fate should be bind up with yours . '
The prince give ear to the argument from pre-ordainment , and a she be a very lovely maiden he take her too in lawful marriage .
She and Jamila , set up house together , and Dil-aram and Gul set up theirs ; and the prince pass the rest of his life with the four in perfect happiness , and in pleasant and sociable entertainment .
Now have be tell what the rise do to the cypress .
Finished , finish , finish !
Footnotes : -LSB- Footnote 1 : Translated from two Persian MSS .
in the possession of the British Museum and the India Office , and adapt , with some reservation , by Annette S. Beveridge . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 2 : Jessamine , ruby-decked . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 3 : Life-giving diamond . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 4 : World-gripper . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 5 : Love-enkindler . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 6 : Rose-cheek . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 7 : Heartsease . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 8 : Elias . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 9 : Pleasure . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 10 : Thirty-birds . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 11 : Pomp and Pride . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 12 : Of happy omen . -RSB-
Ball-carrier and the Bad One Far , far in the forest there be two little hut , and in each of them live a man who be a famous hunter , his wife , and three or four child .
Now the child be forbid to play more than a short distance from the door , a it be know that , away on the other side of the wood near the great river , there dwell a witch who have a magic ball that she use a a mean of steal child .
Her plan be a very simple one , and have never yet fail .
When she want a child she just fling her ball in the direction of the child 's home , and however far off it might be , the ball be sure to reach it .
Then , as soon a the child saw it , the ball would begin roll slowly back to the witch , just keep a little ahead of the child , so that he always think that he could catch it the next minute .
But he never do , and , what be more , his parent never saw him again .
Of course you must not suppose that all the father and mother who have lose child make no attempt to find them , but the forest be so large , and the witch be so cunning in know exactly where they be go to search , that it be very easy for her to keep out of the way .
Besides , there be always the chance that the child might have be eat by wolf , of which large herd roam about in winter .
One day the old witch happen to want a little boy , so she throw her ball in the direction of the hunter ' hut .
A child be stand outside , shoot at a mark with his bow and arrow , but the moment he saw the ball , which be make of glass whose blue and green and white , all frost over , keep change one into the other , he fling down his bow , and stoop to pick the ball up .
But a he do so it begin to roll very gently downhill .
The boy could not let it roll away , when it be so close to him , so he give chase .
The ball seem always within his grasp , yet he could never catch it ; it go quicker and quicker , and the boy grow more and more excited .
That time he almost touch it -- no , he miss it by a hair 's breadth !
Now , surely , if he give a spring he could get in front of it !
He spring forward , trip and fell , and find himself in the witch 's house !
` Welcome !
welcome !
grandson ! '
say she ; ` get up and rest yourself , for you have have a long walk , and I be sure you must be tire ! '
So the boy sit down , and eat some food which she give him in a bowl .
It be quite different from anything he have taste before , and he think it be delicious .
When he have eat up every bit , the witch ask him if he have ever fast .
` No , ' reply the boy , ` at least I have be oblige to sometimes , but never if there be any food to be have . '
` You will have to fast if you want the spirit to make you strong and wise , and the sooner you begin the good . '
` Very well , ' say the boy , ` what do I do first ? '
` Lie down on those buffalo skin by the door of the hut , ' answer she ; and the boy lay down , and the squirrel and little bear and the bird come and talk to him .
At the end of ten day the old woman come to him with a bowl of the same food that he have eat before .
` Get up , my grandson , you have fast long enough .
Have the good spirit visit you , and grant you the strength and wisdom that you desire ? '
` Some of them have come , and have give me a portion of both , ' answer the boy , ` but many have stay away from me . '
` Then , ' say she , ` you must fast ten day more . '
So the boy lay down again on the buffalo skin , and fast for ten day , and at the end of that time he turn his face to the wall , and fast for twenty day longer .
At length the witch call to him , and say : ` Come and eat something , my grandson . '
At the sound of her voice the boy get up and eat the food she give him .
When he have finish every scrap she speak a before : ` Tell me , my grandson , have not the good spirit visit you all these many day that you have fast ? '
` Not all , grandmother , ' answer he ; ` there be still some who keep away from me and say that I have not fast long enough . '
` Then you must fast again , ' reply the old woman , ` and go on fast till you receive the gift of all the good spirit .
Not one must be miss . '
The boy say nothing , but lay down for the third time on the buffalo skin , and fast for twenty day more .
And at the end of that time the witch think he be dead , his face be so white and his body so still .
But when she have feed him out of the bowl he grow strong , and soon be able to sit up .
` You have fast a long time , ' say she , ` long than anyone ever fast before .
Surely the good spirit must be satisfy now ? '
` Yes , grandmother , ' answer the boy , ` they have all come , and have give me their gift . '
This please the old woman so much that she bring him another basin of food , and while he be eat it she talk to him , and this be what she say : ` Far away , on the other side of the great river , be the home of the Bad One .
In his house be much gold , and what be more precious even than the gold , a little bridge , which lengthen out when the Bad One wave his hand , so that there be no river or sea that he can not cross .
Now I want that bridge and some of the gold for myself , and that be the reason that I have steal so many boy by mean of my ball .
I have try to teach them how to gain the gift of the good spirit , but none of them would fast long enough , and at last I have to send them away to perform simple , easy little task .
But you have be strong and faithful , and you can do this thing if you listen to what I tell you !
When you reach the river tie this ball to your foot , and it will take you across -- you can not manage it in any other way .
But do not be afraid ; trust to the ball , and you will be quite safe ! '
The boy take the ball and put it in a bag .
Then he make himself a club and a bow , and some arrow which would fly further than anyone else 's arrow , because of the strength the good spirit have give him .
They have also bestow on him the power of change his shape , and have increase the quickness of his eye and ear so that nothing escape him .
And in some way or other they make him understand that if he need more help they would give it to him .
When all these thing be ready the boy bade farewell to the witch and set out .
He walk through the forest for several day without see anyone but his friends the squirrel and the bear and the bird , but though he stop and speak to them all , he be careful not to let them know where he be go .
At last , after many day , he come to the river , and beyond it he notice a small hut stand on a hill which he guess to be the home of the Bad One .
But the stream flow so quickly that he could not see how he be ever to cross it , and in order to test how swift the current really be , he break a branch from a tree and throw it in .
It seem hardly to touch the water before it be carry away , and even his magic sight could not follow it .
He could not help feeling frighten , but he hat give up anything that he have once undertake , and , fasten the ball on his right foot , he venture on the river .
To his surprise he be able to stand up ; then a panic seize him , and he scramble up the bank again .
In a minute or two he pluck up courage to go a little further into the river , but again it width frighten him , and a second time he turn back .
However , he felt rather ashamed of his cowardice , a it be quite clear that his ball could support him , and on his third trial he get safely to the other side .
Once there he replace the ball in the bag , and look carefully round him .
The door of the Bad One 's hut be open , and he saw that the ceiling be support by great wooden beam , from which hang the bag of gold and the little bridge .
He saw , too , the Bad One sit in the midst of his treasure eat his dinner , and drink something out of a horn .
It be plain to the boy that he must invent some plan of get the Bad One out of the way , or else he would never be able to steal the gold or the bridge .
What should he do ?
Give horrible shriek a if he be in pain ?
But the Bad One would not care whether he be murder or not !
Call him by his name ?
But the Bad One be very cunning , and would suspect some trick .
He must try something good than that !
Then suddenly an idea come to him , and he give a little jump of joy .
` Oh , how stupid of me not to think of that before ! '
say he , and he wish with all his might that the Bad One should become very hungry -- so hungry that he could not wait a moment for fresh food to be bring to him .
And sure enough at that instant the Bad One call out to his servant , ` You do not bring food that would satisfy a sparrow Fetch some more at once , for I be perfectly starve . '
Then , without give the woman time to go to the larder , he get up from his chair , and roll , stagger from hunger , towards the kitchen .
Directly the door have close on the Bad One the boy ran in , pull down a bag of gold from the beam , and tuck it under his left arm .
Next he unhook the little bridge and put it under his right .
He do not try to escape , a most boy of his age would have do , for the wisdom put into his mind by the good spirit teach him that before he could reach the river and make use of the bridge the Bad One would have track him by his footstep and be upon him .
So , make himself very small and thin , he hide himself behind a pile of buffalo skin in the corner , first tear a slit through one of them , so that he could see what be go on .
He have hardly settle himself when the servant enter the room , and , a she do so , the last bag of gold on the beam fell to the ground -- for they have begin to fall directly the boy have take the first one .
She cry to her master that someone have steal both the bag and the bridge , and the Bad One rush in , mad with anger , and bid her go and seek for footstep outside , that they might find out where the thief have go .
In a few minute she return , say that he must be in the house , a she could not see any footstep lead to the river , and begin to move all the furniture in the room , without discover Ball Carrier .
` But he must be here somewhere , ' she say to herself , examine for the second time the pile of buffalo skin ; and Ball-Carrier , know that he could not possibly escape now , hastily wish that the Bad One should be unable to eat any more food at present .
` Ah , there be a slit in this one , ' cry the servant , shake the skin ; ` and here he be . '
And she pull out Ball-Carrier , look so lean and small that he would hardly have make a mouthful for a sparrow .
` Was it you who take my gold and bridge ? '
ask the Bad One .
` Yes , ' answer Ball-Carrier , ` it be I who take them . '
The Bad One make a sign to the woman , who inquire where he have hide them .
He lift his left arm where the gold be , and she pick up a knife and scrap his skin so that no gold should be leave stick to it .
` What have you do with the bridge ? '
say she .
And he lift his right arm , from which she take the bridge , while the Bad One look on , well pleased .
` Be sure that he do not run away , ' chuckle he .
` Boil some water , and get him ready for cook , while I go and invite my friend the water-demons to the feast . '
The woman seize Ball-Carrier between her finger and thumb , and be go to carry him to the kitchen , when the boy speak : ' I be very lean and small now , ' he say , ` hardly worth the trouble of cooking ; but if you be to keep me two day , and give me plenty of food , I should get big and fat .
As it be , your friend the water-demons would think you mean to laugh at them , when they find that I be the feast . '
` Well , perhaps you be right , ' answer the Bad One ; ' I will keep you for two day . '
And he go out to visit the water-demons .
Meanwhile the servant , whose name be Lung Woman , lead him into a little shed , and chain him up to a ring in the wall .
But food be give him every hour , and at the end of two day he be a fat and big a a Christmas turkey , and could hardly move his head from one side to the other .
` He will do now , ' say the Bad One , who come constantly to see how he be get on . '
I shall go and tell the water-demons that we expect them to dinner to-night .
Put the kettle on the fire , but be sure on no account to taste the broth . '
Lung-Woman lose no time in obey her order .
She build up the fire , which have get very low , fill the kettle with water , and pass a rope which hung from the ceiling through the handle , swing it over the flame .
Then she bring in Ball-Carrier , who , see all these preparation , wish that as long a he be in the kettle the water might not really boil , though it would hiss and bubble , and also , that the spirit would turn the water into fat .
The kettle soon begin to sing and bubble , and Ball Carrier be lift in .
Very soon the fat which be to make the sauce rise to the surface , and Ball-Carrier , who be bob about from one side to the other , call out that Lung-Woman have well taste the broth , a he though that some salt should be add to it .
The servant knew quite well that her master have forbid her to do any thing of the kind , but when once the idea be put into her head , she find the smell from the kettle so delicious that she unhook a long ladle from the wall and plunge it into the kettle .
` You will spill it all , if you stand so far off , ' say the boy ; ` why do n't you come a little nearer ? '
And a she do so he cry to the spirit to give him back his usual size and strength and to make the water scald hot Then he give the kettle a kick , which upset all the boiling water upon her , and jumping over her body he seize once more the gold and the bridge , pick up his club and bow and arrow , and after set fire to the Bad One 's hut , run down to the river , which he cross safely by the help of the bridge .
The hut , which be make of wood , be burn to the ground before the Bad One come back with a large crowd of water-demons .
There be not a sign of anyone or anything , so he start for the river , where he saw Ball Carrier sit quietly on the other side .
Then the Bad One know what have happen , and after tell the water demon that there would be no feast after all , he call to Ball-Carrier , who be eat an apple . '
I know your name now , ' he say , ` and a you have ruin me , and I be not rich any more , will you take me a your servant ? '
` Yes , I will , though you have try to kill me , ' answer Ball-Carrier , throw the bridge across the water a he speak .
But when the Bad One be in the midst of the stream , the boy wish it to become small ; and the Bad One fell into the water and be drown , and the world be rid of him .
-LSB- U.S. .
Bureau of Ethnology . -RSB-
How Ball-carrier Finished His Task After Ball-Carrier have manage to drown the Bad One so that he could not do any more mischief , he forget the way to his grandmother 's house , and could not find it again , though he search everywhere .
During this time he wander into many strange place , and have many adventure ; and one day he come to a hut where a young girl live .
He be tire and hungry and beg her to let him in and rest , and he stay a long while , and the girl become his wife .
One morning he saw two child play in front of the hut , and go out to speak to them .
But as soon a they saw him they set up cry of horror and run away .
` They be the child of my sister who have be on a long journey , ' reply his wife , ` and now that she know you be my husband she want to kill you . '
` Oh , well , let her try , ' reply Ball-Carrier .
` It be not the first time people have wish to do that .
And here I be still , you see ! '
` Be careful , ' say the wife , ` she be very cunning . '
But at this moment the sister-in-law come up .
` How do you do , brother-in-law ?
I have hear of you so often that I be very glad to meet you .
I be tell that you be more powerful than any man on earth , and a I be powerful too , let u try which be the strong . '
` That will be delightful , ' answer he .
` Suppose we begin with a short race , and then we will go on to other thing . '
` That will suit me very well , ' reply the woman , who be a witch .
` And let u agree that the one who win shall have the right to kill the other . '
` Oh , certainly , ' say Ball-Carrier ; ' and I do n't think we shall find a flatter course than the prairie itself -- no one know how many mile it stretch .
We will run to the end and back again . '
This be settle they both make ready for the race , and Ball-Carrier silently beg the good spirit to help him , and not to let him fall into the hand of this wicked witch .
` When the sun touch the trunk of that tree we will start , ' say she , a they both stand side by side .
But with the first step Ball-Carrier change himself into a wolf and for a long way keep ahead .
Then gradually he hear her creep up behind him , and soon she be in front .
So Ball-Carrier take the shape of a pigeon and fly rapidly past her , but in a little while she be in front again and the end of the prairie be in sight . '
A crow can fly fast than a pigeon , ' think he , and a a crow he manage to pass her and hold his ground so long that he fancy she be quite beaten .
The witch begin to be afraid of it too , and put out all her strength slip past him .
Next he put on the shape of a hawk , and in this form he reach the bound of the prairie , he and the witch turning homewards at the moment .
Bird after bird he try , but every time the witch gain on him and take the lead .
At length the goal be in sight , and Ball-Carrier know that unless he could get ahead now he would be kill before his own door , under the eye of his wife .
His eye have grow dim from fatigue , his wing flap wearily and hardly bore him along , while the witch seem as fresh a ever .
What bird be there whose flight be swift than his ?
Would not the good spirit tell him ?
Ah , of course he know ; why have he not think of it at first and spar himself all that fatigue ?
And the next instant a humming bird , dress in green and blue , flash past the woman and enter the house .
The witch come pant up , furious at have lose the race which she felt certain of win ; and Ball-Carrier , who have by this time change back into his own shape , strike her on the head and kill her .
For a long while Ball-Carrier be content to stay quietly at home with his wife and child , for he be tire of adventure , and only do enough hunt to supply the house with food .
But one day he happen to eat some poisonous berry that he have find in the forest , and grow so ill that he felt he be go to die .
` When I be dead do not bury me in the earth , ' he say , ` but put me over there , among that clump of tree . '
So his wife and her three child watch by him as long a he be alive , and after he be dead they take him up and lay the body on a platform of stake which they have prepare in the grove .
And a they return weep to the hut they catch a glimpse of the ball roll away down the path back to the old grandmother .
One of the son spring forward to stop it , for Ball-Carrier have often tell them the tale of how it have help him to cross the river , but it be too quick for him , and they have to content themselves with the war club and bow and arrow , which be put carefully away .
By-and-by some traveller come past , and the chief among them ask leave to marry Ball-Carrier 's daughter .
The mother say she must have a little time to think over it , a her daughter be still very young ; so it be settle that the man should go away for a month with his friend , and then come back to see if the girl be willing .
Now ever since Ball-Carrier 's death the family have be very poor , and often could not get enough to eat .
One morning the girl , who have have no supper and no breakfast , wander off to look for cranberry , and though she be quite near home be astonish at notice a large hut , which certainly have not be there when last she have come that way .
No one be about , so she venture to peep in , and her surprise be increase at see , heap up in one corner , a quantity of food of all sort , while a little robin redbreast stand perch on a beam look down upon her .
` It be my father , I be sure , ' she cry ; and the bird pip in answer .
From that day , whenever they want food they go to the hut , and though the robin could not speak , he would hop on their shoulder and let them fee him with the food they know he like best .
When the man come back he find the girl look so much pretty and fat than when he have leave her , that he insist that they should be marry on the spot .
And the mother , who do not know how to get rid of him , give in .
The husband spend all his time in hunting , and the family have never have so much meat before ; but the man , who have see for himself how poor they be , notice with amazement that they do not seem to care about it , or to be hungry .
` They must get food from somewhere , ' he think , and one morning , when he pretend to be go out to hunt , he hide in a thicket to watch .
Very soon they all leave the house together , and walk to the other hut , which the girl 's husband saw for the first time , a it be hide in a hollow .
He follow , and notice that each one go up to the redbreast , and shake him by the claw ; and he then enter boldly and shake the bird 's claw too .
The whole party afterwards sit down to dinner , after which they all return to their own hut .
The next day the husband declare that he be very ill , and could not eat anything ; but this be only a presence so that he might get what he want .
The family be all much distress , and beg him to tell them what food he fancy .
` Oh !
I could not eat any food , ' he answer every time , and at each answer his voice grow fainter and fainter , till they think he would die from weakness before their eye .
` There must be some thing you could take , if you would only say what it be , ' implore his wife .
` No , nothing , nothing ; except , perhaps -- but of course that be impossible ! '
` No , I be sure it be not , ' reply she ; ` you shall have it , I promise -- only tell me what it be . ' '
I think -- but I could not ask you to do such a thing .
Leave me alone , and let me die quietly . '
` You shall not die , ' cry the girl , who be very fond of her husband , for he do not beat her a most girl ' husband do .
` Whatever it be , I will manage to get it for you . '
` Well , then , I think , if I have that -- redbreast , nicely roast , I could eat a little bit of his wing ! '
The wife start back in horror at such a request ; but the man turn his face to the wall , and take no notice , a he think it be well to leave her to herself for a little .
Weeping and wring her hand , the girl go down to her mother .
The brother be very angry when they hear the story , and declare that , if any one be to die , it certainly should not be the robin .
But all that night the man seem get weak and weak , and at last , quite early , the wife creep out , and steal to the hut , kill the bird , and bring him home to her husband .
Just a she be go to cook it her two brother come in .
They cry out in horror at the sight , and , rush out of the hut , declare they would never see her any more .
And the poor girl , with a heavy heart , take the body of the redbreast up to her husband .
But directly she enter the room the man tell her that he felt a great deal well , and that he would rather have a piece of bear 's flesh , well boil , than any bird , however tender .
His wife felt very miserable to think that their beloved redbreast have be sacrifice for nothing , and beg him to try a little bit .
` You felt so sure that it would do you good before , ' say she , ` that I ca n't help think it would quite cure you now . '
But the man only fly into a rage , and fling the bird out of the window .
Then he get up and go out .
Now all this while the ball have be roll , roll , roll to the old grandmother 's hut on the other side of the world , and directly it roll into her hut she know that her grandson must be dead .
Without waste any time she take a fox skin and tie it round her forehead , and fasten another round her waist , a witch always do when they leave their own home .
When she be ready she say to the ball : ` Go back the way you come , and lead me to my grandson . '
And the ball start with the old woman follow .
It be a long journey , even for a witch , but , like other thing , it end at last ; and the old woman stand before the platform of stake , where the body of Ball-Carrier lay .
` Wake up , my grandson , it be time to go home , ' the witch say .
And Ball-Carrier step down oft the platform , and bring his club and bow and arrows out of the hut , and set out , for the other side of the world , behind the old woman .
When they reach the hut where Ball-Carrier have fast so many year ago , the old woman speak for the first time since they have start on their way .
` My grandson , do you ever manage to get that gold from the Bad One ? '
` Yes , grandmother , I get it . '
` Where be it ? '
she ask .
` Here , in my left arm-pit , ' answer he .
So she pick up a knife and scrap away all the gold which have stick to his skin , and which have be stick there ever since he first steal it .
After she have finish she ask again : ` My grandson , do you manage to get that bridge from the Bad One ? '
` Yes , grandmother , I get that too , ' answer he .
` Where be it ? '
she ask , and Ball-Carrier lift his right arm , and point to his arm-pit .
` Here be the bridge , grandmother , ' say he .
Then the witch do something that nobody in the world could have guess that she would do .
First , she take the gold and say to Ball-carrier : ` My grandson , this gold must be hide in the earth , for if people think they can get it when they choose , they will become lazy and stupid .
But if we take it and bury it in different part of the world they will have to work for it if they want it , and then will only find a little at a time . '
And a she speak , she pull up one of the pole of the hut , and Ball-Carrier saw that underneath be a deep , deep hole , which seem to have no bottom .
Down this hole she pour all the gold , and when it be out of sight it run about all over the world , where people that dig hard sometimes find it .
And after that be do she put the pole back again .
Next she lift down a spade from a high shelf , where it have grow quite rusty , and dig a very small hole on the opposite side of the hut -- very small , but very deep .
` Give me the bridge , ' say she , ` for I be go to bury it here .
If anyone be to get hold of it , and find that they could cross river and sea without any trouble , they would never discover how to cross them for themselves .
I be a witch , and if I have choose I could easily have cast my spell over the Bad One , and have make him deliver them to you the first day you come into my hut .
But then you would never have fast , and never have plan how to get what you want , and never have know the good spirit , and would have be fat and idle to the end of your day .
And now go ; in that hut , which you can just see far away , live your father and mother , who be old people now , and need a son to hunt for them .
You have do what you be set to do , and I need you no more . '
Then Ball-Carrier remember his parent and go back to them .
-LSB- From Bureau of Ethnology .
` Indian Folklore . ' -RSB-
The Bunyip Long , long ago , far , far away on the other side of the world , some young men leave the camp where they live to get some food for their wife and child .
The sun be hot , but they like heat , and a they go they run race and try who could hurl his spear the farthest , or be cleverest in throw a strange weapon call a boomerang , which always return to the thrower .
They do not get on very fast at this rate , but presently they reach a flat place that in time of flood be full of water , but be now , in the height of summer , only a set of pool , each surround with a fringe of plant , with bulrush stand in the inside of all .
In that country the people be fond of the root of bulrush , which they think as good a onion , and one of the young men say that they have well collect some of the root and carry them back to the camp .
It do not take them long to weave the top of the willow into a basket , and they be just go to wade into the water and pull up the bulrush root when a youth suddenly call out : ` After all , why should we waste our time in do work that be only fit for woman and child ?
Let them come and get the root for themselves ; but we will fish for eel and anything else we can get . '
This delight the rest of the party , and they all begin to arrange their fishing line , make from the bark of the yellow mimosa , and to search for bait for their hook .
Most of them use worm , but one , who have put a piece of raw meat for dinner into his skin wallet , cut off a little bit and bait his line with it , unseen by his companion .
For a long time they cast patiently , without receive a single bite ; the sun have grow low in the sky , and it seem a if they would have to go home empty-handed , not even with a basket of root to show ; when the youth , who have bait his hook with raw meat , suddenly saw his line disappear under the water .
Something , a very heavy fish he suppose , be pull so hard that he could hardly keep his foot , and for a few minute it seem either a if he must let go or be drag into the pool .
He cry to his friend to help him , and at last , tremble with fright at what they be go to see , they manage between them to land on the bank a creature that be neither a calf nor a seal , but something of both , with a long , broad tail .
They look at each other with horror , cold shiver run down their spine ; for though they have never behold it , there be not a man amongst them who do not know what it be -- the cub of the awful Bunyip !
All of a sudden the silence be break by a low wail , answer by another from the other side of the pool , a the mother rise up from her den and come towards them , rage flash from her horrible yellow eye .
` Let it go !
let it go ! '
whisper the young men to each other ; but the captor declare that he have catch it , and be go to keep it .
` He have promise his sweetheart , ' he say , ` that he would bring back enough meat for her father 's house to feast on for three day , and though they could not eat the little Bunyip , her brother and sister should have it to play with . '
So , fling his spear at the mother to keep her back , he throw the little Bunyip on to his shoulder , and set out for the camp , never heed the poor mother 's cry of distress .
By this time it be get near sunset , and the plain be in shadow , though the top of the mountain be still quite bright .
The youth have all cease to be afraid , when they be startle by a low rushing sound behind them , and , look round , saw that the pool be slowly rise , and the spot where they have land the Bunyip be quite cover .
` What could it be ? '
they ask one of another ; ` there be not a cloud in the sky , yet the water have rise high already than they have ever know it do before . '
For an instant they stand watch a if they be frozen , then they turn and run with all their might , the man with the Bunyip run faster than all .
When he reach a high peak over-looking all the plain he stop to take breath , and turn to see if he be safe yet .
Safe !
why only the top of the tree remain above that sea of water , and these be fast disappear .
They must run fast indeed if they be to escape .
So on they fly , scarcely feel the ground a they go , till they fling themselves on the ground before the hole scoop out of the earth where they have all be bear .
The old men be sit in front , the child be play , and the woman chatter together , when the little Bunyip fell into their midst , and there be scarcely a child among them who do not know that something terrible be upon them .
` The water !
the water ! '
gasp one of the young men ; and there it be , slowly but steadily mount the ridge itself .
Parents and child cling together , a if by that mean they could drive back the advancing flood ; and the youth who have cause all this terrible catastrophe , seize his sweetheart , and cry : ' I will climb with you to the top of that tree , and there no water can reach u . '
But , a he speak , something cold touch him , and quickly he glance down at his foot .
Then with a shudder he saw that they be foot no longer , but bird 's claw .
He look at the girl he be clasp , and behold a great black bird stand at his side ; he turn to his friend , but a flock of great awkward flapping creature stand in their place He put up his hand to cover his face , but they be no more hand , only the end of wing ; and when he try to speak , a noise such a he have never hear before seem to come from his throat , which have suddenly become narrow and slender .
Already the water have rise to his waist , and he find himself sit easily upon it , while it surface reflect back the image of a black swan , one of many .
Never again do the swan become men ; but they be still different from other swan , for in the night-time those who listen can hear them talk in a language that be certainly not swan 's language ; and there be even sound of laugh and talk , unlike any noise make by the swan whom we know .
The little Bunyip be carry home by it mother , and after that the water sink back to their own channel .
The side of the pool where she live be always shun by everyone , a nobody know when she may suddenly put out her head and draw him into her mighty jaw .
But people say that underneath the black water of the pool she have a house fill with beautiful thing , such a mortal who dwell on the earth have no idea of .
Though how they know I can not tell you , a nobody have ever see it .
-LSB- From Journal of Anthropological-Institute . -RSB-
Father Grumbler Once upon a time there live a man who have nearly as many child a there be sparrow in the garden .
He have to work very hard all day to get them enough to eat , and be often tire and cross , and abuse everything and everybody , so that people call him ` Father Grumbler . '
By-and-by he grow weary of always work , and on Sundays he lay a long while in bed , instead of go to church .
Then after a time he find it dull to sit so many hour by himself , think of nothing but how to pay the rent that be owe , and a the tavern across the road look bright and cheerful , he walk in one day and sit down with his friend .
` It be just to chase away Care , ' he say ; but when he come out , hour and hour after , Care come out with him .
Father Grumbler enter his house feel more dismal than when he leave it , for he know that he have waste both his time and his money . '
I will go and see the Holy Man in the cave near the well , ' he say to himself , ` and perhaps he can tell me why all the luck be for other people , and only misfortune happen to me . '
And he set out at once for the cave .
It be a long way off , and the road lead over mountain and through valley ; but at last he reach the cave where the Holy Man dwelt , and knock at the door .
` Who be there ? '
ask a voice from within .
` It be I , Holy Man , Father Grumbler , you know , who have as many child a sparrow in the garden . '
` Well , and what be it that you want ? ' '
I want to know why other people have all the luck , and only misfortune happen to me ! '
The Holy Man do not answer , but go into an inner cave , from which he come out bear something in his hand .
` Do you see this basket ? '
say he .
` It be a magical basket , and if you be hungry you have only get to say : `` Little basket , little basket , do your duty , '' and you will eat the best dinner you ever have in your life .
But when you have have enough , be sure you do n't forget to cry out : `` That will do for to-day . ''
Oh !
-- and one thing more -- you need not show it to everybody and declare that I have give it to you .
Do you understand ? '
Father Grumbler be always accustom to think of himself a so unlucky that he do not know whether the Holy Man be not play a trick upon him ; but he take the basket without be polite enough to say either ` Thank you , ' or ` Good-morning , ' and go away .
However , he only wait till he be out of sight of the cave before he stoop down and whisper : ` Little basket , little basket , do your duty . '
Now the basket have a lid , so that he could not see what be inside , but he hear quite clearly strange noise , a if a sort of scuffling be go on .
Then the lid burst open , and a quantity of delicious little white roll come tumble out one after the other , follow by a stream of small fish all ready cook .
What a quantity there be to be sure !
The whole road be cover with them , and the bank on each side be begin to disappear .
Father Grumbler felt quite frighten at the torrent , but at last he remember what the Holy Man have tell him , and cry at the top of his voice : ` Enough !
enough !
That will do for to-day ! '
And the lid of the basket close with a snap .
Father Grumbler sigh with relief and happiness a he look around him , and sit down on a heap of stone , he eat till he could eat no more .
Trout , salmon , turbot , sol , and a hundred other fish whose name he do not know , lay boil , fry , and grill within reach of his hand .
As the Holy Man have say , he have never eat such a dinner ; still , when he have do , he shake his head , and grumble ; ` Yes , there be plenty to eat , of course , but it only make me thirsty , and there be not a drop to drink anywhere . '
Yet , somehow , he could never tell why , he look up and saw the tavern in front of him , which he think be mile , and mile , and mile away .
` Bring the best wine you have get , and two glass , good mother , ' he say a he enter , ` and if you be fond of fish there be enough here to fee the house .
Only there be no need to chatter about it all over the place .
You understand ?
Eh ? '
And without wait for an answer he whisper to the basket : ` Little basket , little basket , do your duty . '
The innkeeper and his wife think that their customer have go suddenly mad , and watch him closely , ready to spring on him if he become violent ; but both instinctively jumped backwards , nearly into the fire , a roll and fish of every kind come tumble out of the basket , cover the table and chair and the floor , and even overflow into the street .
` Be quick , be quick , and pick them up , ' cry the man .
` And if these be not enough , there be plenty more to be have for the ask . '
The innkeeper and his wife do not need tell twice .
Down they go on their knee and gather up everything they could lay hand on .
But busy though they seem , they find time to whisper to each other : ` If we can only get hold of that basket it will make our fortune ! '
So they begin by invite Father Grumbler to sit down to the table , and bring out the best wine in the cellar , hop it might loosen his tongue .
But Father Grumbler be wise than they give him credit for , and though they try in all manner of way to find out who have give him the basket , he put them off , and keep his secret to himself .
Unluckily , though he do not SPEAK , he do drink , and it be not long before he fell fast asleep .
Then the woman fetch from her kitchen a basket , so like the magic one that no one , without look very closely , could tell the difference , and place it in Father Grumbler 's hand , while she hide the other carefully away .
It be dinner time when the man awoke , and , jump up hastily , he set out for home , where he find all the child gather round a basin of thin soup , and push their wooden bowl forward , hop to have the first spoonful .
Their father burst into the midst of them , bear his basket , and cry : ` Do n't spoil your appetite , child , with that stuff .
Do you see this basket ?
Well , I have only get to say , `` Little basket , little basket , do your duty , '' and you will see what will happen .
Now you shall say it instead of me , for a treat . '
The child , wonder and delighted , repeat the word , but nothing happen .
Again and again they try , but the basket be only a basket , with a few scale of fish sticking to the bottom , for the innkeeper 's wife have take it to market the day before .
` What be the matter with the thing ? '
cry the father at last , snatch the basket from them , and turn it all over , grumble and swear while he do so , under the eye of his astonished wife and child , who do not know whether to cry or to laugh .
` It certainly smell of fish , ' he say , and then he stop , for a sudden thought have come to him .
` Suppose it be not mine at all ; suppose -- Ah , the scoundrel ! '
And without listen to his wife and child , who be frighten at his strange conduct and beg him to stay at home , he run across to the tavern and burst open the door .
` Can I do anything for you , Father Grumbler ? '
ask the innkeeper 's wife in her soft voice . '
I have take the wrong basket -- by mistake , of course , ' say he .
` Here be yours , will you give me back my own ? '
` Why , what be you talk about ? '
answer she .
` You can see for yourself that there be no basket here . '
And though Father Grumbler DID look , it be quite true that none be to be see .
` Come , take a glass to warm you this cold day , ' say the woman , who be anxious to keep him in a good temper , and a this be an invitation Father Grumbler never refuse , he toss it off and leave the house .
He take the road that lead to the Holy Man 's cave , and make such haste that it be not long before he reach it .
` Who be there ? '
say a voice in answer to his knock .
` It be me , it be me , Holy man .
You know quite well .
Father Grumbler , who have as many child a sparrow in the garden . '
` But , my good man , it be only yesterday that I give you a handsome present . '
` Yes , Holy Man , and here it be .
But something have happen , I do n't know what , and it wo n't work any more . '
` Well , put it down .
I will go and see if I can find anything for you . '
In a few minute the Holy Man return with a cock under his arm .
` Listen to me , ' he say , ` whenever you want money , you only have to say : `` Show me what you can do , cock , '' and you will see some wonderful thing .
But , remember , it be not necessary to let all the world into the secret . '
` Oh no , Holy Man , I be not so foolish a that . '
` Nor to tell everybody that I give it to you , ' go on the Holy Man . '
I have not get these treasure by the dozen . '
And without wait for an answer he shut the door .
As before , the distance seem to have wonderfully shorten , and in a moment the tavern rise up in front of Father Grumbler .
Without stop to think , he go straight in , and find the innkeeper 's wife in the kitchen make a cake .
` Where have you come from , with that fine red cock in your basket , ' ask she , for the bird be so big that the lid would not shut down properly .
` Oh , I come from a place where they do n't keep these thing by the dozen , ' he reply , sit down in front of the table .
The woman say no more , but set before him a bottle of his favourite wine , and soon he begin to wish to display his prize .
` Show me what you can do , cock , ' cry he .
And the cock stand up and flap his wing three time , crow ` coquerico ' with a voice like a trumpet , and at each crow there fell from his beak golden drop , and diamonds as large a pea .
This time Father Grumbler do not invite the innkeeper 's wife to pick up his treasure , but put his own hat under the cock 's beak , so a to catch everything he let fall ; and he do not see the husband and wife exchange glance with each other which say , ` That would be a splendid cock to put with our basket . '
` Have another glass of wine ? '
suggest the innkeeper , when they have finish admire the beauty of the cock , for they pretend not to have see the gold or the diamond .
And Father Grumbler , nothing loth , drink one glass after another , till his head fell forward on the table , and once more he be sound asleep .
Then the woman gently coax the cock from the basket and carry it off to her own poultry yard , from which she bring one exactly like it , and pop it in it place .
Night be fall when the man awoke , and throw proudly some grain of gold on the table to pay for the wine he have drunk , he tuck the cock comfortably into his basket and set out for home .
His wife and all the child be wait for him at the door , and as soon a she catch sight of him she break out : ` You be a nice man to go waste your time and your money drinking in that tavern , and leave u to starve !
Are n't you ashamed of yourself ? '
` You do n't know what you be talk of , ' he answer .
` Money ?
Why , I have gold and diamond now , as much a I want .
Do you see that cock ?
Well , you have only to say to him , `` Show me what you can do , cock , '' and something splendid will happen . '
Neither wife nor child be incline to put much faith in him after their last experience ; however , they think it be worth try , and do a he tell them .
The cock fly round the room like a mad thing , and crow till their head nearly split with the noise ; but no gold or diamond drop on the brick floor -- not the tiny grain of either .
Father Grumbler star in silence for an instant , and then he begin to swear so loudly that even his family , accustom a they be to his language , wonder at him .
At last he grow a little quieter , but remain as puzzle a ever .
` Can I have forget the word ?
But I KNOW that be what he say !
And I saw the diamond with my own eye ! '
Then suddenly he seize the cock , shut it into the basket , and rush out of the house .
His heavy wooden shoe clatter a he run along the road , and he make such haste that the star be only just begin to come out when he reach the cave of the Holy Man .
` Who be that knock ? '
ask a voice from within .
` It be me !
It be me !
Holy Man !
you know !
Father -- ' ` But , my good fellow , you really should give some one else a chance .
This be the third time you have be -- and at such an hour , too ! '
` Oh , yes , Holy Man , I know it be very late , but you will forgive me !
It be your cock -- there be something the matter .
It be like the basket .
Look ! '
` THAT my cock ?
THAT my basket ?
Somebody have play you a trick , my good man ! ' '
A trick ? '
repeat Father Grumbler , who begin to understand what have happen .
` Then it must have be those two -- ' ' I warn you not to show them to anybody , ' say the Holy Man .
` You deserve -- but I will give you one more chance . '
And , turn , he unhook something from the wall .
` When you wish to dust your own jacket or those of your friend , ' he say , ` you have only get to say , `` Flack , flick , switch , be quick , '' and you will see what happen .
That be all I have to tell you . '
And , smile to himself , the Holy Man push Father Grumbler out of the cave .
` Ah , I understand now , ' mutter the good man , a he take the road home ; ` but I think I have get you two rascal ! '
and he hurry on to the tavern with his basket under his arm , and the cock and the switch both inside .
` Good evening , friends ! '
he say , a he enter the inn . '
I be very hungry , and should be glad if you would roast this cock for me as soon a possible .
THIS cock and no other -- mind what I say , ' he go on .
` Oh , and another thing !
You can light the fire with this basket .
When you have do that I will show you something I have in my bag , ' and , a he speak , he try to imitate the smile that the Holy Man have give HIM .
These direction make the innkeeper 's wife very uneasy .
However , she say nothing , and begin to roast the cock , while her husband do his best to make the man sleepy with wine , but all in vain .
After dinner , which he do not eat without grumbling , for the cock be very tough , the man strike his hand on the table , and say : ` Now listen to me .
Go and fetch my cock and my basket , at once .
Do you hear ? '
` Your cock , and your basket , Father Grumbler ?
But you have just -- ' ` MY cock and MY basket ! '
interrupt he .
` And , if you be too deaf and too stupid to understand what that mean , I have get something which may help to teach you . '
And open the bag , he cry : ` Flack , flick , switch , be quick . '
And flack !
flick !
like lighten a white switch sprang out of the bag , and give such hearty blow to the innkeeper and his wife , and to Father Grumbler into the bargain , that they all jump as high a feather when a mattress be shake .
` Stop !
stop !
make it stop , and you shall have back your cock and basket , ' cry the man and his wife .
And Father Grumbler , who have no wish to go on , call out between his hop : ` Stop then , ca n't you ?
That be enough for to-day ! '
But the switch pay no attention , and deal out it blow a before , and MIGHT have be deal them to this day , if the Holy Man have not hear their cry and come to the rescue .
` Into the bag , quick ! '
say he , and the switch obeyed .
` Now go and fetch me the cock and the basket , ' and the woman go without a word , and place them on the table .
` You have all get what you deserve , ' continue the Holy Man , ` and I have no pity for any of you .
I shall take my treasure home , and perhaps some day I may find a man who know how to make the best of the chance that be give to him .
But that will never be YOU , ' he add , turn to Father Grumbler .
-LSB- From Contes Populaires . -RSB-
The Story of the Yara Down in the south , where the sun shine so hotly that everything and everybody sleep all day , and even the great forest seem silent , except early in the morning and late in the evening -- down in this country there once live a young man and a maiden .
The girl have be bear in the town , and have scarcely ever leave it ; but the young man be a native of another country , and have only come to the city near the great river because he could find no work to do where he be .
A few month after his arrival , when the day be cooler , and the people do not sleep so much a usual , a great feast be hold a little way out of the town , and to this feast everyone flock from thirty mile and more .
Some walk and some rode , some come in beautiful golden coach ; but all have on splendid dress of red or blue , while wreath of flower rest on their hair .
It be the first time that the youth have be present on such an occasion , and he stand silently aside watch the graceful dance and the pretty game play by the young people .
And a he watch , he notice one girl , dress in white with scarlet pomegranate in her hair , who seem to him lovely than all the rest .
When the feast be over , and the young man return home , his manner be so strange that it draw the attention of all his friend .
Through his work next day the youth continue to see the girl 's face , throw the ball to her companion , or thread her way between them a she dance .
At night sleep flee from him , and after toss for hour on his bed , he would get up and plunge into a deep pool that lay a little way in the forest .
This state of thing go on for some week , then at last chance favour him .
One evening , a he be pass near the house where she live , he saw her standing with her back to the wall , try to beat off with her fan the attack of a savage dog that be leap at her throat .
Alonzo , for such be his name , sprang forward , and with one blow of his fist stretch the creature dead upon the road .
He then help the frightened and half-fainting girl into the large cool verandah where her parent be sit , and from that hour he be a welcome guest in the house , and it be not long before he be the promised husband of Julia .
Every day , when his work be do , he use to go up to the house , half hidden among flower plant and brilliant creeper , where humming-birds dart from bush to bush , and parrot of all colour , red and green and grey , shriek in chorus .
There he would find the maiden waiting for him , and they would spend an hour or two under the star , which look so large and bright that you felt a if you could almost touch them .
` What do you do last night after you go home ? '
suddenly ask the girl one evening .
` Just the same a I always do , ' answer he .
` It be too hot to sleep , so it be no use go to bed , and I walk straight of to the forest and bath in one of those deep dark pool at the edge of the river .
I have be there constantly for several month , but last night a strange thing happen .
I be take my last plunge , when I hear -- sometimes from one side , and sometimes from another -- the sound of a voice sing more sweetly than any nightingale , though I could not catch any word .
I leave the pool , and , dress myself as fast a I could , I search every bush and tree round the water , a I fancy that perhaps it be my friend who be play a trick on me , but there be not a creature to be see ; and when I reach home I find my friend fast asleep . '
As Julia listen her face grow deadly white , and her whole body shiver a if with cold .
From her childhood she have hear story of the terrible being that live in the forest and be hide under the bank of the river , and could only be keep off by powerful charm .
Could the voice which have bewitch Alonzo have come from one of these ?
Perhaps , who know , it might be the voice of the dreaded Yara herself , who seek young men on the eve of their marriage a her prey .
For a moment the girl sit choke with fear , a these thought rush through her ; then she say : ` Alonzo , will you promise something ? '
` What be that ? '
ask he .
` It be something that have to do with our future happiness . '
` Oh !
it be serious , then ?
Well , of course I promise .
Now tell me ! ' '
I want you to promise , ' she answer , lower her voice to a whisper , ` never to bathe in those pool again . '
` But why not , queen of my soul ; have I not go there always , and nothing have harm me , flower of my heart ? '
` No ; but perhaps something will .
If you will not promise I shall go mad with fright .
Promise me . '
` Why , what be the matter ?
You look so pale !
Tell me why you be so frightened ? '
` Did you not hear the song ? '
she ask , tremble .
` Suppose I do , how could that hurt me ?
It be the lovely song I ever hear ! '
` Yes , and after the song will come the apparition ; and after that -- after that -- ' ' I do n't understand .
Well -- after that ? '
` After that -- death . '
Alonzo star at her .
Had she really go mad ?
Such talk be very unlike Julia ; but before he could collect his sense the girl speak again : ` That be the reason why I implore you never to go there again ; at any rate till after we be marry . '
` And what difference will our marriage make ? '
` Oh , there will be no danger then ; you can go to bathe as often a you like ! '
` But tell me why you be so afraid ? '
` Because the voice you hear -- I know you will laugh , but it be quite true -- it be the voice of the Yara . '
At these word Alonzo burst into a shout of laughter ; but it sound so harsh and loud that Julia shrink away shuddering .
It seem a if he could not stop himself , and the more he laugh the paler the poor girl become , murmur to herself a she watch him : ` Oh , heaven !
you have see her !
you have see her !
what shall I do ? '
Faint a be her whisper , it reach the ear of Alonzo , who , though he still could not speak for laugh , shake his head .
` You may not know it , but it be true .
Nobody who have not see the Yara laugh like that . '
And Julia fling herself on the ground weep bitterly .
At this sight Alonzo become suddenly grave , and kneeling by her side , gently raise her up .
` Do not cry so , my angel , ' he say , ' I will promise anything you please .
Only let me see you smile again . '
With a great effort Julia check her sob , and rise to her foot .
` Thank you , ' she answer .
` My heart grow light a you say that !
I know you will try to keep your word and to stay away from the forest .
But -- the power of the Yara be very strong , and the sound of her voice be apt to make men forget everything else in the world .
Oh , I have see it , and more than one betroth maiden life alone , broken-hearted .
If ever you should return to the pool where you first hear the voice , promise me that you will at least take this with you . '
And open a curiously carve box , she take out a sea-shell shot with many colour , and sing a song softly into it .
` The moment you hear the Yara 's voice , ' say she , ` put this to your ear , and you will hear my song instead .
Perhaps -- I do not know for certain -- but perhaps , I may be strong than the Yara . '
It be late that night when Alonzo return home .
The moon be shin on the distant river , which look cool and inviting , and the tree of the forest seem to stretch out their arm and beckon him near .
But the young man steadily turn his face in the other direction , and go home to bed .
The struggle have be hard , but Alonzo have his reward next day in the joy and relief with which Julia greet him .
He assure her that have overcome the temptation once the danger be now over ; but she , know good than he do the magic of the Yara 's face and voice , do not fail to make him repeat his promise when he go away .
For three night Alonzo keep his word , not because he believe in the Yara , for he think that the tale about her be all nonsense , but because he could not bear the tear with which he know that Julia would greet him , if he confess that he have return to the forest .
But , in spite of this , the song rang in his ear , and daily grow louder .
On the fourth night the attraction of the forest grow so strong that neither the thought of Julia nor the promise he have make her could hold him back .
At eleven o'clock he plunge into the cool darkness of the tree , and take the path that lead straight to the river .
Yet , for the first time , he find that Julia 's warning , though he have laugh at her at the moment , have remain in his memory , and he glance at the bush with a certain sense of fear which be quite new to him .
When he reach the river he pause and look round for a moment to make sure that the strange feeling of some one watch him be fancy , and he be really alone .
But the moon shone brightly on every tree , and nothing be to be see but his own shadow ; nothing be to be hear but the sound of the rippling stream .
He throw off his clothes , and be just about to dive in headlong , when something -- he do not know what -- suddenly cause him to look round .
At the same instant the moon pass from behind a cloud , and it ray fell on a beautiful golden-haired woman stand half hide by the fern .
With one bound he catch up his mantle , and rush headlong down the path he have come , fear at each step to feel a hand lay on his shoulder .
It be not till he have leave the last tree behind him , and be stand in the open plain , that he dare to look round , and then he think a figure in white be still stand there wave her arm to and fro .
This be enough ; he run along the road harder than ever , and never pause till he be save in his own room .
With the early ray of dawn he go back to the forest to see whether he could find any trace of the Yara , but though he search every clump of bush , and look up every tree , everything be empty , and the only voice he hear be those of parrot , which be so ugly that they only drive people away . '
I think I must be mad , ' he say to himself , ` and have dream all that folly ' ; and go back to the city he begin his daily work .
But either that be hard than usual , or he must be ill , for he could not fix his mind upon it , and everybody he come across during the day inquire if anything have happen to give him that white , frightened look . '
I must be feverish , ' he say to himself ; ` after all , it be rather dangerous to take a cold bath when one be feel so hot . '
Yet he know , while he say it , that he be count the hour for night to come , that he might return to the forest .
In the evening he go as usual to the creeper-covered house .
But he have well have stay away , a his face be so pale and his manner so strange , that the poor girl saw that something terrible have occur .
Alonzo , however , refuse to answer any of her question , and all she could get be a promise to hear everything the next day .
On pretence of a violent headache , he leave Julia much early than usual and hurried quickly home .
Taking down a pistol , he load it and put it in his belt , and a little before midnight he steal out on the tip of his toe , so a to disturb nobody .
Once outside he hasten down the road which lead to the forest .
He do not stop till he have reach the river pool , when hold the pistol in his hand , he look about him .
At every little noise -- the fall of a leaf , the rustle of an animal in the bush , the cry of a night-bird -- he spring up and cock his pistol in the direction of the sound .
But though the moon still shine he saw nothing , and by and by a kind of dreamy state seem to steal over him a he lean against a tree .
How long he remain in this condition he could not have tell , but suddenly he awake with a start , on hear his name utter softly .
` Who be that ? '
he cry , stand upright instantly ; but only an echo answer him .
Then his eye grow fascinate with the dark water of the pool close to his foot , and he look at it a if he could never look away .
He gaze steadily into the depth for some minute , when he become aware that down in the darkness be a bright spark , which get rapidly big and brighter .
Again that feeling of awful fear take possession of him , and he try to turn his eye from the pool .
But it be no use ; something strong than himself compel him to keep them there .
At last the water part softly , and float on the surface he saw the beautiful woman whom he have flee from only a few night before .
He turn to run , but his foot be glue to the spot .
She smile at him and hold out her arm , but a she do so there come over him the remembrance of Julia , a he have see her a few hour earlier , and her warning and fear for the very danger in which he now find himself .
Meanwhile the figure be always draw nearer , nearer ; but , with a violent effort , Alonzo shake off his stupor , and take aim at her shoulder he pull the trigger .
The report awake the sleeping echo , and be repeat all through the forest , but the figure smile still , and go on advancing .
Again Alonzo fire , and a second time the bullet whistle through the air , and the figure advance nearer .
A moment more , and she would be at his side .
Then , his pistol be empty , he grasp the barrel with both hand , and stand ready to use it a a club should the Yara approach and closer .
But now it seem her turn to feel afraid , for she pause an instant while he press forward , still hold the pistol above his head , prepare to strike .
In his excitement he have forget the river , and it be not till the cold water touch his foot that he stand still by instinct .
The Yara saw that he be waver , and suffer herself to sway gently backwards and forward on the surface of the river , she begin to sing .
The song float through the tree , now far and now near ; no one could tell whence it come , the whole air seem full of it .
Alonzo felt his sens go and his will fail .
His arm drop heavily to his side , but in fall struck against the sea shell , which , a he have promise Julia , he have always carry in his coat .
His dim mind be just clear enough to remember what she have say , and with tremble finger , that be almost powerless to grasp , he draw it out .
As he do so the song grow sweet and more tender than before , but he shut his ear to it and bend his head over the shell .
Out of it depth arise the voice of Julia sing to him a she have sung when she give him the shell , and though the note sound faint at first , they swell louder and louder till the mist which have gather about him be blow away .
Then he raise his head , feeling that he have be through strange place , where he could never wander any more ; and he hold himself erect and strong , and look about him .
Nothing be to be see but the shining of the river , and the dark shadow of the tree ; nothing be to be hear but the hum of the insect , a they dart through the night .
-LSB- Adapted from Folklore Bresilien . -RSB-
The Cunning Hare In a very cold country , far across the sea , where ice and snow cover the ground for many month in the year , there live a little hare , who , a his father and mother be both dead , be bring up by his grandmother .
As he be too young , and she be too old , to work , they be very poor , and often do not have enough to eat .
One day , when the little fellow be hungry than usual , he ask his grandmother if he might go down to the river and catch a fish for their breakfast , a the thaw have come and the water be flow freely again .
She laugh at him for think that any fish would let itself be catch by a hare , especially such a young one ; but a she have the rheumatism very badly , and could get no food herself , she let him go .
` If he do not catch a fish he may find something else , ' she say to herself .
So she tell her grandson where to look for the net , and how he be to set it across the river ; but just a he be start , feel himself quite a man , she call him back .
` After all , I do n't know what be the use of your go , my boy !
For even if you should catch a fish , I have no fire to cook it with . '
` Let me catch my fish , and I will soon make you a fire , ' he answer gaily , for he be young , and know nothing about the difficulty of fire-making .
It take him some time to haul the net through bush and over field , but at length he reach a pool in the river which he have often hear be swarm with fish , and here he set the net , a his grandmother have direct him .
He be so excited that he hardly sleep all night , and at the very first streak of dawn he run as fast a ever he could down to the river .
His heart beat as quickly a if he have have dog behind him , and he hardly dare to look , lest he should be disappoint .
Would there be even one fish ?
And at this think the pang of hunger make him feel quite sick with fear .
But he need not have be afraid ; in every mesh of the net be a fine fat fish , and of course the net itself be so heavy that he could only lift one corner .
He throw some of the fish back into the water , and bury some more in a hole under a stone , where he would be sure to find them .
Then he roll up the net with the rest , put it on his back and carry it home .
The weight of the load cause his back to ache , and he be thankful to drop it outside their hut , while he rush in , full of joy , to tell his grandmother .
` Be quick and clean them ! '
he say , ` and I will go to those people 's tent on the other side of the water . '
The old woman star at him in horror a she listen to his proposal .
Other people have try to steal fire before , and few indeed have come back with their life ; but a , contrary to all her expectation , he have manage to catch such a number of fish , she think that perhaps there be some magic about him which she do not know of , and do not try to hinder him .
When the fish be all take out , he fetch the net which he have lay out to dry , fold it up very small , and run down to the river , hop that he might find a place narrow enough for him to jump over ; but he soon saw that it be too wide for even the best jumper in the world .
For a few moment he stand there , wonder what be to be do , then there dart into his head some word of a spell which he have once hear a wizard use , while drink from the river .
He repeat them , as well a he could remember , and wait to see what would happen .
In five minute such a grunting and a puffing be hear , and column of water rise into the air , though he could not tell what have make them .
Then round the bend of the stream come fifteen huge whale , which he order to place themselves head to tail , like step stone , so that he could jump from one to the other till he land on the opposite shore .
Directly he get there he tell the whale that he do not need them any more , and sit down in the sand to rest .
Unluckily some child who be play about catch sight of him , and one of them , steal softly up behind him , lay tight hold of his ear .
The hare , who have be watch the whale a they sail down the river , give a violent start , and struggle to get away ; but the boy held on tight , and run back home , as fast a he could go .
` Throw it in the pot , ' say the old woman , as soon a he have tell his story ; ` put it in that basket , and as soon a the water boil in the pot we will hang it over the fire ! '
` Better kill it first , ' say the old man ; and the hare listen , horribly frighten , but still look secretly to see if there be no hole through which he could escape , if he have a chance of do so .
Yes , there be one , right in the top of the tent , so , shake himself , a if with fright , he let the end of his net unroll itself a little . '
I wish that a spark of fire would fall on my net , ' whisper he ; and the next minute a great log fell forward into the midst of the tent , cause every one to spring backwards .
The spark be scatter in every direction , and one fell on the net , make a little blaze .
In an instant the hare have leap through the hole , and be race towards the river , with men , woman , and child after him .
There be no time to call back the whale , so , hold the net tight in his mouth , he wish himself across the river .
Then he jump high into the air , and land safe on the other side , and after turn round to be sure that there be no chance of anyone pursue him , trot happily home to his grandmother .
` Did n't I tell you I would bring you fire ? '
say he , hold up his net , which be now burn briskly .
` But how do you cross the water ? '
inquire the old woman .
` Oh , I just jump ! '
say he .
And his grandmother ask him no more question , for she saw that he be wise than she .
-LSB- ` Indian Folk Tales . '
Bureau of Ethnology . -RSB-
The Turtle and His Bride There be once a turtle who live among a great many people of different kind , in a large camp near a big river which be bear right up amongst the snow , and flow straight away south till it reach a sea where the water be always hot .
There be many other turtle in the camp , and this turtle be kind and pleasant to them all , but he do not care for any of them very much , and felt rather lonely .
At last he build himself a hut , and fill it with skin for seat , and make it as comfortable a any hut for mile round ; and when it be quite finish he look about among the young woman to see which of them he should ask to be his wife .
It take him some time to make up his mind , for no turtle like be hurry , but at length he find one girl who seem pretty and more industrious than the rest , and one day he enter her home , and say : ` Will you marry me ? '
The young woman be so surprised at this question that she drop the bead slipper she be make , and star at the turtle .
She felt inclined to laugh -- the idea be so absurd ; but she be kind-hearted and polite , so she look as grave a she could , and answer : ` But how be you go to provide for a family ?
Why , when the camp move , you will not even be able to keep up with the rest ! ' '
I can keep up with the best of them , ' reply the turtle , toss his head .
But though he be very much offended he do not let the girl see it , and beg and , pray her so hard to marry him that , at last , she consent , very unwillingly .
` You will have to wait till the spring , though , ' she say ; ' I must make a great many slipper and dress for myself , a I shall not have much time afterwards . '
This do not please the turtle ; but he know it be no use talk , so all he answer be : ' I shall go to war and take some captive , and I shall be away several month .
And when I return I shall expect you to be ready to marry me . '
So he go back to his hut , and at once set about his preparation .
The first thing he do be to call all his relation together , and ask them if they would come with him and make war on the people of a neighbouring village .
The turtle , who be tire of do nothing , agree at once , and next day the whole tribe leave the camp .
The girl be stand at the door of her hut a they pass , and laugh out loud -- they move so slowly .
Her lover , who be march at the head , grow very angry at this , and cry out : ` In four day from now you will be weep instead of laughing , because there will be hundred of mile between you and me . '
` In four day , ' reply the girl -- who only promise to marry him in order to get rid of him -- ` in four day you will hardly be out of sight . '
` Oh , I do not mean four day , but four YEARS , ' answer the turtle , hastily ; ` whatever happen I shall be back by then . '
The army march on , till one day , when they felt a if they must have get half round the earth , though they be scarcely four mile from the camp , they find a large tree lie across their path .
They look at it with dismay , and the old among them put their head together to see what be to be do .
` Ca n't we manage to get past by the top ? '
ask one .
` Why , it would take u YEARS , ' exclaim another .
` Just look at all those tall green branch , spread in every direction .
If once we get entangle in THEM , we should never get out again ! '
` Well then , let u go round by the bottom , ' say a third .
` How be we to do that , when the root have make a deep hole , and above that be a high bank ? '
reply a fourth .
` No ; the only way I can think of , be to burn a large hole in the trunk . '
And this they do , but the trunk be very thick , and would not burn through .
` It be no use , we must give it up , ' they agree at last .
` After all , nobody need ever know !
We have be away such a long while that we might easily have have all sort of adventure . '
And so the whole company turn homewards again .
They take even long to go back than they have to come , for they be tire and footsore with their journey .
When they draw near the camp they pluck up their courage , and begin to sing a war-song .
At this the villager come flock to see what spoil the turtle have win , but , a they approach , each turtle seize some one by the wrist , exclaim : ` You be our spoil ; you be our prisoner ! '
` Now that I have get you I will keep you , ' say the leader , who have happen to seize his betrothed .
Everybody be naturally very angry at this behaviour , and the girl most of all , and in her secret heart she determine to have her revenge .
But , just at present , the turtle be too strong , so the prisoner have to put on their smart slipper and their brightest clothes , and dance a war dance while the turtle sang .
They dance so long that it seem a if they would never stop , till the turtle who be lead the singing suddenly break into a loud chant : Whoever come here , will die , will die !
At this all the dancer grow so frightened that they burst through the ring of their captor , and run back to the village , the turtle follow -- very slowly .
On the way the chief turtle meet a man , who say to him : ` That woman who be to have be your wife have marry another man ! '
` Is that true ? '
say the turtle .
` Then I must see him . '
But as soon a the villager be out of sight the turtle stop , and take a bundle containing fringe and ornament from his back , he hang them about him , so that they rattle a he walk .
When he be quite close to the hut where the woman live , he cry out : ` Here I be to claim the woman who promise to be my wife . '
` Oh , here be the turtle , ' whisper the husband hurriedly ; ` what be to be do now ? '
` Leave that to me ; I will manage him , ' reply the wife , and at that moment the turtle come in , and seize her by the wrist .
` Come with me , ' he say sternly .
` You break your promise , ' answer she .
` You say you would be back soon , and it be more than a year since you go !
How be I to know that you be alive ? '
At her word the husband take courage , and speak hastily : ` Yes , you promise you would go to war and bring back some prisoner , and you have not do it . ' '
I DID go , and make many prisoner , ' retort the turtle angrily , draw out his knife .
` Look here , if she wo n't be MY wife , she sha 'n ' t be YOURS .
I will cut her in two ; and you shall have one half , and I the other . '
` But half a woman be no use to me , ' answer the man .
` If you want her so much you have good take her . '
And the turtle , follow by his relation , carry her off to his own hut .
Now the woman saw she would gain nothing by be sulky , so she pretend to be very glad to have get rid of her husband ; but all the while she be try to invent a plan to deliver herself from the turtle .
At length she remember that one of her friend have a large iron pot , and when the turtle have go to his room to put away his fringe , she run over to her neighbour 's and bring it back .
Then she fill it with water and hung it over the fire to boil .
It be just begin to bubble and hiss when the turtle enter .
` What be you do there ? '
ask he , for he be always afraid of thing that he do not understand .
` Just warm some water , ' she answer .
` Do you know how to swim ? '
` Yes , of course I do .
What a question !
But what do it matter to you ? '
say the turtle , more suspicious than ever .
` Oh , I only think that after your long journey you might like to wash .
The road be so muddy , after the winter 's rain .
I could rub your shell for you till it be bright and shin again .
` Well , I AM rather muddy .
If one be fight , you know , one can not stop to pick one 's way .
I should certainly be more comfortable if my back be wash . '
The woman do not wait for him to change his mind .
She catch him up by his shell and pop him straight into the pot , where he sink to the bottom , and die instantly .
The other turtle , who be stand at the door , saw their leader disappear , and felt it be their duty a soldier to follow him ; and , spring into the pot , die too .
All but one young turtle , who , frighten at not see any of his friend come out again , go a fast a he could to a clump of bush , and from there make his way to the river .
His only thought be to get away as far a possible from that dreadful hut ; so he let the river carry him where it be go itself , and at last , one day , he find himself in the warm sea , where , if he be not dead , you may meet him still .
-LSB- Bureau of Ethnology . -RSB-
How Geirald The Coward Was Punished Once upon a time there live a poor knight who have a great many child , and find it very hard to get enough for them to eat .
One day he send his eldest son , Rosald , a brave and honest youth , to the neighbour town to do some business , and here Rosald meet a young man name Geirald , with whom he make friend .
Now Geirald be the son of a rich man , who be proud of the boy , and have all his life allow him to do whatever he fancy , and , luckily for the father , he be prudent and sensible , and do not waste money , a many other rich young men might have do .
For some time he have set his heart on travel into foreign country , and after he have be talk for a little while to Rosald , he ask if his new friend would be his companion on his journey .
` There be nothing I should like good , ' answer Rosald , shake his head sorrowfully ; ` but my father be very poor , and he could never give me the money . '
` Oh , if that be your only difficulty , it be all right , ' cry Geirald .
` My father have more money than he know what to do with , and he will give me as much a I want for both of u ; only , there be one thing you must promise me , Rosald , that , suppose we have any adventure , you will let the honour and glory of them fall to me . '
` Yes , of course , that be only fair , ' answer Rosald , who never care about put himself forward .
` But I can not go without tell my parent .
I be sure they will think me lucky to get such a chance . '
As soon a the business be finish , Rosald hasten home .
His parent be delighted to hear of his good fortune , and his father give him his own sword , which be grow rusty for want of use , while his mother saw that his leather jerkin be in order .
` Be sure you keep the promise you make to Geirald , ' say she , a she bid him good-bye , ` and , come what may , see that you never betray him . '
Full of joy Rosald ride off , and the next day he and Geirald start off to seek adventure .
To their disappointment their own land be so well govern that nothing out of the common be very likely to happen , but directly they cross the border into another kingdom all seem lawlessness and confusion .
They have not go very far , when , rid across a mountain , they catch a glimpse of several arm men hide amongst some tree in their path , and remember suddenly some talk they have hear of a band of twelve robber who lay in wait for rich traveller .
The robber be more like savage beast than men , and live somewhere at the top of the mountain in cave and hole in the ground .
They be all call ` Hankur , ' and be distinguish one from another by the name of a colour -- blue , grey , red , and so on , except their chief , who be know a Hankur the Tall .
All this and more rush into the mind of the two young men a they saw the flash of their sword in the moonlight .
` It be impossible to fight them -- they be twelve to two , ' whisper Geirald , stop his horse in the path .
` We have much well ride back and take the low road .
It would be stupid to throw away our life like this . '
` Oh , we ca n't turn back , ' answer Rosald , ` we should be ashamed to look anyone in the face again !
And , besides , it be a grand opportunity to show what we be make of .
Let u tie up our horse here , and climb up the rock so that we can roll stone down on them . '
` Well , we might try that , and then we shall always have our horse , ' say Geirald .
So they go up the rock silently and carefully .
The robber be lie all ready , expect every moment to see their victim come round the corner a few yard away , when a shower of huge stone fell on their head , kill half the band .
The others spring up the rock , but a they reach the top the sword of Rosald swung round , and one man after another roll down into the valley .
At last the chief manage to spring up , and , grasp Rosald by the waist , fling away his sword , and the two fought desperately , their body sway always nearer the edge .
It seem a if Rosald , be the small of the two , MUST fall over , when , with his left hand , he draw the robber 's sword out of it sheath and plunge it into his heart .
Then he take from the dead man a beautiful ring set with a large stone , and put it on his own finger .
The fame of this wonderful deed soon spread through the country , and people would often stop Geirald 's horse , and ask leave to see the robber 's ring , which be say to have be steal from the father of the reign king .
And Geirald show them the ring with pride , and listen to their word of praise , and no one would ever have guess anyone else have destroy the robber .
In a few day they leave the kingdom and rode on to another , where they think they would stop through the remainder of the winter , for Geirald like to be comfortable , and do not care about travel through ice and snow .
But the king would only grant them leave to stop on condition that , before the winter be end , they should give him some fresh proof of the courage of which he have hear so much .
Rosald 's heart be glad at the king 's message , and a for Geirald , he felt that as long a Rosald be there all would go well .
So they both bow low and reply that it be the king 's place to command and theirs to obey .
` Well , then , ' say his Majesty , ` this be what I want you to do : In the north-east part of my kingdom there dwell a giant , who have an iron staff twenty yard long , and he be so quick in use it , that even fifty knight have no chance against him .
The brave and strong young men of my court have fall under the blow of that staff ; but , a you overcome the twelve robber so easily , I feel that I have reason to hope that you may be able to conquer the giant .
In three day from this you will set out . '
` We will be ready , your Majesty , ' answered Rosald ; but Geirald remain silent .
` How can we possibly fight against a giant that have kill fifty knight ? '
cry Geirald , when they be outside the castle .
` The king only want to get rid of u !
He wo n't think about u for the next three day -- that be one comfort -- so we shall have plenty of time to cross the border of the kingdom and be out of reach . '
` We may n't be able to kill the giant , but we certainly ca n't run away till we have try , ' answer Rosald .
` Besides , think how glorious it will be if we DO manage to kill him !
I know what sort of weapon I shall use .
Come with me now , and I will see about it . '
And , take his friend by the arm , he lead him into a shop where he buy a huge lump of solid iron , so big that they could hardly lift it between them .
However , they just manage to carry it to a blacksmith 's where Rosald direct that it should be beat into a thick club , with a sharp spike at one end .
When this be do to his liking he take it home under his arm .
Very early on the third morning the two young men start on their journey , and on the fourth day they reach the giant 's cave before he be out of bed .
Hearing the sound of footstep , the giant get up and go to the entrance to see who be come , and Rosald , expect something of the sort , strike him such a blow on the forehead that he fell to the ground .
Then , before he could rise to his foot again , Rosald draw out his sword and cut off his head .
` It be not so difficult after all , you see , ' he say , turn to Geirald .
And place the giant 's head in a leathern wallet which be slung over his back , they begin their journey to the castle .
As they draw near the gate , Rosald take the head from the wallet and hand it to Geirald , whom he follow into the king 's presence .
` The giant will trouble you no more , ' say Geirald , hold out the head .
And the king fell on his neck and kiss him , and cry joyfully that he be the ` brave knight in all the world , and that a feast should be make for him and Rosald , and that the great deed should be proclaim throughout the kingdom . '
And Geirald 's heart swell with pride , and he almost forget that it be Rosald and not he , who have slay the giant .
By-and-by a whisper go round that a beautiful lady who live in the castle would be present at the feast , with twenty-four lovely maiden , her attendant .
The lady be the queen of her own country , but a her father and mother have die when she be a little girl , she have be leave in the care of this king who be her uncle .
She be now old enough to govern her own kingdom , but her subject do not like be rule by a woman , and say that she must find a husband to help her in manage her affair .
Prince after prince have offer himself , but the young queen would have nothing to say to any of them , and at last tell her minister that if she be to have a husband at all she must choose him for herself , a she would certainly not marry any of those whom they have select for her .
The minister reply that in that case she have well manage her kingdom alone , and the queen , who know nothing about business , get thing into such a confusion that at last she throw them up altogether , and go off to her uncle .
Now when she hear how the two young men have slay the giant , her heart be fill with admiration of their courage , and she declare that if a feast be hold she would certainly be present at it .
And so she be ; and when the feast be over she ask the king , her guardian , if he would allow the two hero who have kill the robber and slay the giant to fight a tourney the next day with one of her page .
The king gladly give his consent , and order the list to be make ready , never doubt that two great champion would be eager for such a chance of add to their fame .
Little do he guess that Geirald have do all he could to persuade Rosald to steal secretly out of the castle during the night , ` for , ' say he , ' I do n't believe they be page at all , but well-proved knight , and how can we , so young and untried , stand up against them ? '
` The honour will be all the high if we gain the day , ' answered Rosald ; but Geirald would listen to nothing , and only declare that he do not care about honour , and would rather be alive than have every honour in the world heap upon him .
Go he would , and a Rosald have swear to give him his company , he must come with him .
Rosald be much grieve when he hear these word , but he know that it be useless attempt to persuade Geirald , and turn his thought to form some plan to prevent this disgraceful flight .
Suddenly his face brighten .
` Let u change clothes , ' he say , ` and I will do the fighting , while you shall get the glory .
Nobody will ever know . '
And to this Geirald readily consent .
Whether Geirald be right or not in think that the so-called page be really a well-proved knight , it be certain that Rosald 's task be a very hard one .
Three time they come together with a crash which make their horse reel ; once Rosald knock the helmet off his foe , and receive in return such a blow that he stagger in his saddle .
Shouts go up from the lookers-on , a first one and then the other seem gain the victory ; but at length Rosald plant his spear in the armour which cover his adversary 's breast and bore him steadily backward .
` Unhorsed !
unhorsed ! '
cry the people ; and Rosald then himself dismount and help his adversary to rise .
In the confusion that follow it be easy for Rosald to slip away and return Geirald his proper clothes .
And in these , torn and dusty with the fight , Geirald answer the king 's summons to come before him .
` You have do what I expect you to do , ' say he , ` and now , choose your reward . '
` Grant me , sire , the hand of the queen , your niece , ' reply the young man , bow low , ` and I will defend her kingdom against all her enemy . '
` She could choose no good husband , ' say the king , ` and if she consent I do . '
And he turn towards the queen , who have not be present during the fight , but have just slip into a seat by his right hand .
Now the queen 's eye be very sharp , and it seem to her that the man who stand before her , tall and handsome though he might be , be different in many slight way , and in one in particular , from the man who have fight the tourney .
How there could be any trickery she could not understand , and why the real victor should be willing to give up his prize to another be still strange ; but something in her heart warn her to be careful .
She answer : ` You may be satisfy , uncle , but I be not .
One more proof I must have ; let the two young men now fight against each other .
The man I marry must be the man who kill the robber and the giant , and overcome my page . '
Geirald 's face grow pale a he hear these word .
He know there be no escape from him now , though he do not doubt for one moment that Rosald would keep his compact loyally to the last .
But how would it be possible that even Rosald should deceive the watchful eye of the king and his court , and still more those of the young queen whom he felt uneasily have suspect him from the first ?
The tourney be fight , and in spite of Geirald 's fear Rosald manage to hang back to make attack which be never mean to succeed , and to allow stroke which he could easily have parry to attain their end .
At length , after a great show of resistance , he fell heavily to the ground .
And a he fell he know that it be not alone the glory that be his rightfully which he give up , but the hand of the queen that be more precious still .
But Geirald do not even wait to see if he be wound ; he go straight to the wall where the royal banner wave and claim the reward which be now his .
The crowd of watcher turn towards the queen , expect to see her stoop and give some token to the victor .
Instead , to the surprise of everyone , she merely smile gracefully , and say that before she bestow her hand one more test must be impose , but this should be the last .
The final tourney should be fight ; Geirald and Rosald should meet singly two knight of the king 's court , and he who could unhorse his foe should be master of herself and of her kingdom .
The combat be fix to take place at ten o'clock the following day .
All night long Geirald walk about his room , not dare to face the fight that lay in front of him , and try with all his might to discover some mean of escape it .
All night long he move restlessly from door to window ; and when the trumpet sound , and the combatant ride into the field , he alone be miss .
The king send messenger to see what have become of him , and he be find , tremble with fear , hide under his bed .
After that there be no need of any further proof .
The combat be declare unnecessary , and the queen pronounce herself quite satisfy , and ready to accept Rosald a her husband .
` You forget one thing , ' she say , when they be alone . '
I recognize my father 's ring which Hankur the Tall have steal , on the finger of your right hand , and I know that it be you and not Geirald who have slay the robber band .
I be the page who fight you , and again I saw the ring on your finger , though it be absent from his when he stand before me to claim the prize .
That be why I order the combat between you , though your faith to your word prevent my plan be successful , and I have to try another .
The man who keep his promise at all cost to himself be the man I can trust , both for myself and for my people . '
So they be marry , and return to their own kingdom , which they rule well and happily .
And many year after a poor beggar knock at the palace gate and ask for money , for the sake of day go by -- and this be Geirald .
-LSB- From Neuislandischem Volksmarcher . -RSB-
Habogi Once upon a time there live two peasant who have three daughter , and , a generally happen , the young be the most beautiful and the best tempered , and when her sister want to go out she be always ready to stay at home and do their work .
Years pass quickly with the whole family , and one day the parent suddenly perceive that all three girl be grow up , and that very soon they would be think of marriage .
` Have you decide what your husband 's name be to be ? '
say the father , laughingly , to his eldest daughter , one evening when they be all sit at the door of their cottage .
` You know that be a very important point ! '
` Yes ; I will never wed any man who be not call Sigmund , ' answer she .
` Well , it be lucky for you that there be a great many Sigmunds in this part of the world , ' reply her father , ` so that you can take your choice !
And what do YOU say ? '
he add , turn to the second .
` Oh , I think that there be no name so beautiful a Sigurd , ' cry she .
` Then you wo n't be an old maid either , ' answer he .
` There be seven Sigurds in the next village alone !
And you , Helga ? '
Helga , who be still the prettiest of the three , look up .
She also have her favourite name , but , just a she be go to say it , she seem to hear a voice whisper : ` Marry no one who be not call Habogi . '
The girl have never hear of such a name , and do not like it , so she determine to pay no attention ; but a she open her mouth to tell her father that her husband must be call Njal , she find herself answer instead : ` If I do marry it will be to no one except Habogi . '
` Who IS Habogi ? '
ask her father and sister ; ` We never hear of such a person . '
` All I can tell you be that he will be my husband , if ever I have one , ' return Helga ; and that be all she would say .
Before very long the young men who live in the neighbouring village or on the side of the mountain , have hear of this talk of the three girl , and Sigmunds and Sigurds in score come to visit the little cottage .
There be other young men too , who bore different name , though not one of them be call ` Habogi , ' and these think that they might perhaps gain the heart of the young .
But though there be more than one ` Njal ' amongst them , Helga 's eye seem always turn another way .
At length the two elder sister make their choice from out of the Sigurds and the Sigmunds , and it be decide that both wedding should take place at the same time .
Invitations be send out to the friend and relation , and when , on the morning of the great day , they be all assemble , a rough , coarse old peasant leave the crowd and come up to the bride ' father .
` My name be Habogi , and Helga must be my wife , ' be all he say .
And though Helga stand pale and tremble with surprise , she do not try to run away . '
I can not talk of such thing just now , ' answer the father , who could not bear the thought of give his favourite daughter to this horrible old man , and hop , by put it off , that something might happen .
But the sister , who have always be rather jealous of Helga , be secretly please that their bridegroom should outshine hers .
When the feast be over , Habogi lead up a beautiful horse from a field where he have leave it to graze , and bid Helga jump up on it splendid saddle , all embroider in scarlet and gold .
` You shall come back again , ' say he ; ` but now you must see the house that you be to live in . '
And though Helga be very unwilling to go , something inside her force her to obey .
The old man settle her comfortably , then spring up in front of her as easily a if he have be a boy , and , shake the rein , they be soon out of sight .
After some mile they ride through a meadow with grass so green that Helga 's eye felt quite dazzle ; and feed on the grass be a quantity of large fat sheep , with the curliest and white wool in the world .
` What lovely sheep !
whose be they ? '
cry Helga .
` Your Habogi 's , ' answer he , ` all that you see belongs to him ; but the fine sheep in the whole herd , which have little golden bell hang between it horn , you shall have for yourself . '
This pleased Helga very much , for she have never have anything of her own ; and she smile quite happily a she thank Habogi for his present .
They soon leave the sheep behind them , and enter a large field with a river run through it , where a number of beautiful grey cow be stand by a gate wait for a milk-maid to come and milk them .
` Oh , what lovely cow ! '
cry Helga again ; ' I be sure their milk must be sweet than any other cow .
How I should like to have some !
