A TANGLED TALE .
Reprinted from The Monthly Packet .
With Six Illustrations by ARTHUR B . FROST .
-LRB- First publish in 1885 . -RRB-
Crown 8vo , cloth , gilt edge , 4_s .
6_d .
Third Thousand .
THE GAME OF LOGIC .
-LRB- With an Envelope contain a card diagram and nine counter -- four red and five grey . -RRB-
Crown 8vo , cloth , price 3_s .
N.B . -- The Envelope , etc . , may be have separately at 3_d .
each .
ALICE 'S ADVENTURES UNDER GROUND .
Being a Facsimile of the original MS. Book , afterwards develop into `` Alice 's Adventures in Wonderland . ''
With Thirty-seven Illustrations by the Author .
Crown 8vo , cloth , gilt edge .
4_s .
THE NURSERY ALICE .
A selection of twenty of the picture in `` Alice 's Adventures in Wonderland , '' enlarge and colour under the Artist 's superintendence , with explanation .
-LSB- In preparation .
* * * * * N.B . .
In sell the above-mentioned book to the Trade , Messrs. Macmillan and Co. will abate 2_d .
in the shilling -LRB- no odd copy -RRB- , and allow 5 per cent .
discount for payment within six month , and 10 per cent .
for cash .
In sell them to the Public -LRB- for cash only -RRB- they will allow 10 per cent .
discount .
* * * * * MR. LEWIS CARROLL , have be request to allow `` AN EASTER GREETING '' -LRB- a leaflet , address to child , first publish in 1876 , and frequently give with his book -RRB- to be sell separately , have arrange with Messrs. Harrison , of 59 , Pall Mall , who will supply a single copy for 1_d .
, or 12 for 9_d .
, or 100 for 5_s .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lewis_Carroll___Through_the_Looking-Glass.txt.out
CHAPTER I. Looking-Glass house One thing be certain , that the WHITE kitten have have nothing to do with it : -- it be the black kitten 's fault entirely .
For the white kitten have be have it face wash by the old cat for the last quarter of an hour -LRB- and bear it pretty well , consider -RRB- ; so you see that it COULD N'T have have any hand in the mischief .
The way Dinah wash her child 's face be this : first she hold the poor thing down by it ear with one paw , and then with the other paw she rub it face all over , the wrong way , begin at the nose : and just now , a I say , she be hard at work on the white kitten , which be lie quite still and try to purr -- no doubt feel that it be all meant for it good .
But the black kitten have be finish with earlier in the afternoon , and so , while Alice be sit curl up in a corner of the great arm-chair , half talk to herself and half asleep , the kitten have be have a grand game of romp with the ball of worsted Alice have be try to wind up , and have be roll it up and down till it have all come undone again ; and there it be , spread over the hearth-rug , all knot and tangle , with the kitten run after it own tail in the middle .
` Oh , you wicked little thing ! '
cried Alice , catch up the kitten , and give it a little kiss to make it understand that it be in disgrace .
` Really , Dinah ought to have teach you good manner !
You OUGHT , Dinah , you know you ought ! '
she add , look reproachfully at the old cat , and speak in a cross a voice a she could manage -- and then she scramble back into the arm-chair , take the kitten and the worsted with her , and begin wind up the ball again .
But she do n't get on very fast , a she be talk all the time , sometimes to the kitten , and sometimes to herself .
Kitty sit very demurely on her knee , pretend to watch the progress of the winding , and now and then put out one paw and gently touch the ball , a if it would be glad to help , if it might .
` Do you know what to-morrow be , Kitty ? '
Alice begin .
` You 'd have guess if you 'd be up in the window with me -- only Dinah be make you tidy , so you could n't .
I be watch the boy get in stick for the bonfire -- and it want plenty of stick , Kitty !
Only it get so cold , and it snow so , they have to leave off .
Never mind , Kitty , we 'll go and see the bonfire to-morrow . '
Here Alice wind two or three turn of the worst round the kitten 's neck , just to see how it would look : this lead to a scramble , in which the ball roll down upon the floor , and yard and yard of it get unwound again .
` Do you know , I be so angry , Kitty , ' Alice go on as soon a they be comfortably settle again , ` when I saw all the mischief you have be do , I be very nearly open the window , and put you out into the snow !
And you 'd have deserve it , you little mischievous darling !
What have you get to say for yourself ?
Now do n't interrupt me ! '
she go on , hold up one finger .
` I 'm go to tell you all your fault .
Number one : you squeak twice while Dinah be wash your face this morning .
Now you ca n't deny it , Kitty : I hear you !
What 's that you say ? '
-LRB- pretend that the kitten be speak . -RRB-
` Her paw go into your eye ?
Well , that 's YOUR fault , for keep your eye open -- if you 'd shut them tight up , it would n't have happen .
Now do n't make any more excuse , but listen !
Number two : you pull Snowdrop away by the tail just a I have put down the saucer of milk before her !
What , you be thirsty , be you ?
How do you know she be n't thirsty too ?
Now for number three : you unwind every bit of the worst while I be n't look !
` That 's three fault , Kitty , and you 've not be punish for any of them yet .
You know I 'm save up all your punishment for Wednesday week -- Suppose they have save up all MY punishment ! '
she go on , talk more to herself than the kitten .
` What WOULD they do at the end of a year ?
I should be send to prison , I suppose , when the day come .
Or -- let me see -- suppose each punishment be to be go without a dinner : then , when the miserable day come , I should have to go without fifty dinner at once !
Well , I should n't mind THAT much !
I 'd far rather go without them than eat them !
` Do you hear the snow against the window-panes , Kitty ?
How nice and soft it sound !
Just a if some one be kiss the window all over outside .
I wonder if the snow LOVES the tree and field , that it kiss them so gently ?
And then it cover them up snug , you know , with a white quilt ; and perhaps it say , `` Go to sleep , darling , till the summer come again . ''
And when they wake up in the summer , Kitty , they dress themselves all in green , and dance about -- whenever the wind blow -- oh , that 's very pretty ! '
cried Alice , drop the ball of worst to clap her hand .
` And I do so WISH it be true !
I 'm sure the wood look sleepy in the autumn , when the leaf be get brown .
` Kitty , can you play chess ?
Now , do n't smile , my dear , I 'm ask it seriously .
Because , when we be play just now , you watch just a if you understand it : and when I say `` Check ! ''
you purr !
Well , it WAS a nice check , Kitty , and really I might have win , if it have n't be for that nasty Knight , that come wiggle down among my piece .
Kitty , dear , let 's pretend -- ' And here I wish I could tell you half the thing Alice use to say , begin with her favourite phrase ` Let 's pretend . '
She have have quite a long argument with her sister only the day before -- all because Alice have begin with ` Let 's pretend we 're king and queen ; ' and her sister , who like be very exact , have argue that they could n't , because there be only two of them , and Alice have be reduce at last to say , ` Well , YOU can be one of them then , and I 'LL be all the rest . '
And once she have really frighten her old nurse by shout suddenly in her ear , ` Nurse !
Do let 's pretend that I 'm a hungry hyaena , and you 're a bone . '
But this be take u away from Alice 's speech to the kitten .
` Let 's pretend that you 're the Red Queen , Kitty !
Do you know , I think if you sit up and fold your arm , you 'd look exactly like her .
Now do try , there 's a dear ! '
And Alice get the Red Queen off the table , and set it up before the kitten a a model for it to imitate : however , the thing do n't succeed , principally , Alice say , because the kitten would n't fold it arm properly .
So , to punish it , she hold it up to the Looking-glass , that it might see how sulky it be -- ` and if you 're not good directly , ' she add , ` I 'll put you through into Looking-glass House .
How would you like THAT ? '
` Now , if you 'll only attend , Kitty , and not talk so much , I 'll tell you all my idea about Looking-glass House .
First , there 's the room you can see through the glass -- that 's just the same a our drawing room , only the thing go the other way .
I can see all of it when I get upon a chair -- all but the bit behind the fireplace .
Oh !
I do so wish I could see THAT bit !
I want so much to know whether they 've a fire in the winter : you never CAN tell , you know , unless our fire smoke , and then smoke come up in that room too -- but that may be only pretence , just to make it look a if they have a fire .
Well then , the book be something like our book , only the word go the wrong way ; I know that , because I 've hold up one of our book to the glass , and then they hold up one in the other room .
` How would you like to live in Looking-glass House , Kitty ?
I wonder if they 'd give you milk in there ?
Perhaps Looking-glass milk be n't good to drink -- But oh , Kitty !
now we come to the passage .
You can just see a little PEEP of the passage in Looking-glass House , if you leave the door of our drawing-room wide open : and it 's very like our passage as far a you can see , only you know it may be quite different on beyond .
Oh , Kitty !
how nice it would be if we could only get through into Looking-glass House !
I 'm sure it 's get , oh !
such beautiful thing in it !
Let 's pretend there 's a way of get through into it , somehow , Kitty .
Let 's pretend the glass have get all soft like gauze , so that we can get through .
Why , it 's turn into a sort of mist now , I declare !
It 'll be easy enough to get through -- ' She be up on the chimney-piece while she say this , though she hardly know how she have get there .
And certainly the glass WAS begin to melt away , just like a bright silvery mist .
In another moment Alice be through the glass , and have jump lightly down into the Looking-glass room .
The very first thing she do be to look whether there be a fire in the fireplace , and she be quite pleased to find that there be a real one , blaze away as brightly a the one she have leave behind .
` So I shall be a warm here a I be in the old room , ' thought Alice : ` warmer , in fact , because there 'll be no one here to scold me away from the fire .
Oh , what fun it 'll be , when they see me through the glass in here , and ca n't get at me ! '
Then she begin look about , and notice that what could be see from the old room be quite common and uninteresting , but that all the rest be as different a possible .
For instance , the picture on the wall next the fire seem to be all alive , and the very clock on the chimney-piece -LRB- you know you can only see the back of it in the Looking-glass -RRB- have get the face of a little old man , and grin at her .
` They do n't keep this room so tidy a the other , ' Alice think to herself , a she notice several of the chessman down in the hearth among the cinder : but in another moment , with a little ` Oh ! '
of surprise , she be down on her hand and knee watch them .
The chessman be walk about , two and two !
` Here be the Red King and the Red Queen , ' Alice say -LRB- in a whisper , for fear of frighten them -RRB- , ` and there be the White King and the White Queen sit on the edge of the shovel -- and here be two castle walk arm in arm -- I do n't think they can hear me , ' she go on , a she put her head closer down , ` and I 'm nearly sure they ca n't see me .
I feel somehow a if I be invisible -- ' Here something begin squeak on the table behind Alice , and make her turn her head just in time to see one of the White Pawns roll over and begin kick : she watch it with great curiosity to see what would happen next .
` It be the voice of my child ! '
the White Queen cry out a she rush past the King , so violently that she knock him over among the cinder .
` My precious Lily !
My imperial kitten ! '
and she begin scramble wildly up the side of the fender .
` Imperial fiddlestick ! '
say the King , rub his nose , which have be hurt by the fall .
He have a right to be a LITTLE annoyed with the Queen , for he be cover with ash from head to foot .
Alice be very anxious to be of use , and , a the poor little Lily be nearly scream herself into a fit , she hastily pick up the Queen and set her on the table by the side of her noisy little daughter .
The Queen gasp , and sit down : the rapid journey through the air have quite take away her breath and for a minute or two she could do nothing but hug the little Lily in silence .
As soon a she have recover her breath a little , she call out to the White King , who be sit sulkily among the ash , ` Mind the volcano ! '
` What volcano ? '
say the King , look up anxiously into the fire , a if he think that be the most likely place to find one .
` Blew -- me -- up , ' pant the Queen , who be still a little out of breath .
` Mind you come up -- the regular way -- do n't get blow up ! '
Alice watch the White King a he slowly struggle up from bar to bar , till at last she say , ` Why , you 'll be hour and hour get to the table , at that rate .
I 'd far good help you , have n't I ? '
But the King take no notice of the question : it be quite clear that he could neither hear her nor see her .
So Alice pick him up very gently , and lift him across more slowly than she have lift the Queen , that she might n't take his breath away : but , before she put him on the table , she think she might as well dust him a little , he be so covered with ash .
She say afterwards that she have never see in all her life such a face a the King make , when he find himself hold in the air by an invisible hand , and be dust : he be far too much astonish to cry out , but his eye and his mouth go on get large and large , and rounder and rounder , till her hand shook so with laugh that she nearly let him drop upon the floor .
` Oh !
PLEASE do n't make such face , my dear ! '
she cry out , quite forget that the King could n't hear her .
` You make me laugh so that I can hardly hold you !
And do n't keep your mouth so wide open !
All the ash will get into it -- there , now I think you 're tidy enough ! '
she add , a she smooth his hair , and set him upon the table near the Queen .
The King immediately fell flat on his back , and lay perfectly still : and Alice be a little alarmed at what she have do , and go round the room to see if she could find any water to throw over him .
However , she could find nothing but a bottle of ink , and when she get back with it she find he have recover , and he and the Queen be talk together in a frightened whisper -- so low , that Alice could hardly hear what they say .
The King be say , ' I assure , you my dear , I turn cold to the very end of my whisker ! '
To which the Queen reply , ` You have n't get any whisker . '
` The horror of that moment , ' the King go on , ' I shall never , NEVER forget ! '
` You will , though , ' the Queen say , ` if you do n't make a memorandum of it . '
Alice look on with great interest a the King take an enormous memorandum-book out of his pocket , and begin write .
A sudden thought strike her , and she take hold of the end of the pencil , which come some way over his shoulder , and begin write for him .
The poor King look puzzle and unhappy , and struggle with the pencil for some time without say anything ; but Alice be too strong for him , and at last he pant out , ` My dear !
I really MUST get a thinner pencil .
I ca n't manage this one a bit ; it write all manner of thing that I do n't intend -- ' ` What manner of thing ? '
say the Queen , look over the book -LRB- in which Alice have put ` THE WHITE KNIGHT IS SLIDING DOWN THE POKER .
HE BALANCES VERY BADLY ' -RRB- ` That 's not a memorandum of YOUR feeling ! '
There be a book lie near Alice on the table , and while she sit watch the White King -LRB- for she be still a little anxious about him , and have the ink all ready to throw over him , in case he faint again -RRB- , she turn over the leaf , to find some part that she could read , ' -- for it 's all in some language I do n't know , ' she say to herself .
It be like this .
YKCOWREBBAJ sevot yhtils eht dna , gillirb sawT ' ebaw eht ni elbmig dna eryg diD , sevogorob eht erew ysmim llA .
ebargtuo shtar emom eht dnA She puzzle over this for some time , but at last a bright thought strike her .
` Why , it 's a Looking-glass book , of course !
And if I hold it up to a glass , the word will all go the right way again . '
This be the poem that Alice read .
JABBERWOCKY 'T be brillig , and the slithy toves Did gyre and gimble in the wabe ; All mimsy be the borogoves , And the mome raths outgrabe .
` Beware the Jabberwock , my son !
The jaw that bite , the claw that catch !
Beware the Jubjub bird , and shun The frumious Bandersnatch ! '
He take his vorpal sword in hand : Long time the manxome foe he seek -- So rest he by the Tumtum tree , And stand awhile in thought .
And a in uffish thought he stand , The Jabberwock , with eye of flame , Came whiffling through the tulgey wood , And burble a it come !
One , two !
One , two !
And through and through The vorpal blade go snicker-snack !
He leave it dead , and with it head He go galumph back .
` And hast thou slay the Jabberwock ?
Come to my arm , my beamish boy !
O frabjous day !
Callooh !
Callay ! '
He chortle in his joy .
'T be brillig , and the slithy toves Did gyre and gimble in the wabe ; All mimsy be the borogoves , And the mome raths outgrabe .
` It seem very pretty , ' she say when she have finish it , ` but it 's RATHER hard to understand ! '
-LRB- You see she do n't like to confess , even to herself , that she could n't make it out at all . -RRB-
` Somehow it seem to fill my head with idea -- only I do n't exactly know what they be !
However , SOMEBODY kill SOMETHING : that 's clear , at any rate -- ' ` But oh ! '
thought Alice , suddenly jump up , ` if I do n't make haste I shall have to go back through the Looking-glass , before I 've see what the rest of the house be like !
Let 's have a look at the garden first ! '
She be out of the room in a moment , and run down stair -- or , at least , it be n't exactly run , but a new invention of hers for get down stair quickly and easily , a Alice say to herself .
She just keep the tip of her finger on the hand-rail , and float gently down without even touch the stair with her foot ; then she float on through the hall , and would have go straight out at the door in the same way , if she have n't catch hold of the door-post .
She be get a little giddy with so much floating in the air , and be rather glad to find herself walk again in the natural way .
CHAPTER II .
The Garden of Live Flowers ' I should see the garden far well , ' say Alice to herself , ` if I could get to the top of that hill : and here 's a path that lead straight to it -- at least , no , it do n't do that -- ' -LRB- after go a few yard along the path , and turn several sharp corner -RRB- , ` but I suppose it will at last .
But how curiously it twist !
It 's more like a corkscrew than a path !
Well , THIS turn go to the hill , I suppose -- no , it do n't !
This go straight back to the house !
Well then , I 'll try it the other way . '
And so she do : wandering up and down , and try turn after turn , but always come back to the house , do what she would .
Indeed , once , when she turn a corner rather more quickly than usual , she run against it before she could stop herself .
` It 's no use talk about it , ' Alice say , look up at the house and pretend it be argue with her .
` I 'm NOT go in again yet .
I know I should have to get through the Looking-glass again -- back into the old room -- and there 'd be an end of all my adventure ! '
So , resolutely turn her back upon the house , she set out once more down the path , determine to keep straight on till she get to the hill .
For a few minute all go on well , and she be just say , ' I really SHALL do it this time -- ' when the path give a sudden twist and shake itself -LRB- a she describe it afterwards -RRB- , and the next moment she find herself actually walk in at the door .
` Oh , it 's too bad ! '
she cry . '
I never saw such a house for get in the way !
Never ! '
However , there be the hill full in sight , so there be nothing to be do but start again .
This time she come upon a large flower-bed , with a border of daisy , and a willow-tree growing in the middle . '
O Tiger-lily , ' say Alice , address herself to one that be wave gracefully about in the wind , ' I WISH you could talk ! '
` We CAN talk , ' say the Tiger-lily : ` when there 's anybody worth talk to . '
Alice be so astonished that she could not speak for a minute : it quite seem to take her breath away .
At length , a the Tiger-lily only go on wave about , she speak again , in a timid voice -- almost in a whisper .
` And can ALL the flower talk ? '
` As well a YOU can , ' say the Tiger-lily .
` And a great deal louder . '
` It be n't manner for u to begin , you know , ' say the Rose , ` and I really be wonder when you 'd speak !
Said I to myself , `` Her face have get SOME sense in it , though it 's not a clever one ! ''
Still , you 're the right colour , and that go a long way . ' '
I do n't care about the colour , ' the Tiger-lily remarked .
` If only her petal curl up a little more , she 'd be all right . '
Alice do n't like be criticise , so she begin ask question .
` Are n't you sometimes frighten at be plant out here , with nobody to take care of you ? '
` There 's the tree in the middle , ' say the Rose : ` what else be it good for ? '
` But what could it do , if any danger come ? '
Alice ask .
` It say `` Bough-wough ! '' '
cry a Daisy : ` that 's why it branch be call boughs ! '
` Did n't you know THAT ? '
cry another Daisy , and here they all begin shout together , till the air seem quite full of little shrill voice .
` Silence , every one of you ! '
cry the Tiger-lily , wave itself passionately from side to side , and tremble with excitement .
` They know I ca n't get at them ! '
it pant , bend it quiver head towards Alice , ` or they would n't dare to do it ! '
` Never mind ! '
Alice say in a soothing tone , and stoop down to the daisy , who be just begin again , she whisper , ` If you do n't hold your tongue , I 'll pick you ! '
There be silence in a moment , and several of the pink daisy turn white .
` That 's right ! '
say the Tiger-lily .
` The daisy be bad of all .
When one speaks , they all begin together , and it 's enough to make one wither to hear the way they go on ! '
` How be it you can all talk so nicely ? '
Alice say , hop to get it into a good temper by a compliment .
` I 've be in many garden before , but none of the flower could talk . '
` Put your hand down , and feel the ground , ' say the Tiger-lily .
` Then you 'll know why . '
Alice do so .
` It 's very hard , ' she say , ` but I do n't see what that have to do with it . '
` In most garden , ' the Tiger-lily say , ` they make the bed too soft -- so that the flower be always asleep . '
This sound a very good reason , and Alice be quite pleased to know it . '
I never think of that before ! '
she say .
` It 's MY opinion that you never think AT ALL , ' the Rose say in a rather severe tone . '
I never saw anybody that look stupider , ' a Violet say , so suddenly , that Alice quite jump ; for it have n't speak before .
` Hold YOUR tongue ! '
cry the Tiger-lily .
` As if YOU ever saw anybody !
You keep your head under the leaf , and snore away there , till you know no more what 's go on in the world , than if you be a bud ! '
` Are there any more people in the garden besides me ? '
Alice say , not choose to notice the Rose 's last remark .
` There 's one other flower in the garden that can move about like you , ' say the Rose . '
I wonder how you do it -- ' -LRB- ` You 're always wonder , ' say the Tiger-lily -RRB- , ` but she 's more bushy than you be . '
` Is she like me ? '
Alice ask eagerly , for the thought cross her mind , ` There 's another little girl in the garden , somewhere ! '
` Well , she have the same awkward shape a you , ' the Rose say , ` but she 's red -- and her petal be short , I think . '
` Her petal be do up close , almost like a dahlia , ' the Tiger-lily interrupted : ` not tumble about anyhow , like yours . '
` But that 's not YOUR fault , ' the Rose add kindly : ` you 're begin to fade , you know -- and then one ca n't help one 's petal get a little untidy . '
Alice do n't like this idea at all : so , to change the subject , she ask ` Does she ever come out here ? ' '
I daresay you 'll see her soon , ' say the Rose .
` She 's one of the thorny kind . '
` Where do she wear the thorn ? '
Alice ask with some curiosity .
` Why all round her head , of course , ' the Rose reply . '
I be wonder YOU have n't get some too .
I think it be the regular rule . '
` She 's come ! '
cry the Larkspur . '
I hear her footstep , thump , thump , thump , along the gravel-walk ! '
Alice look round eagerly , and find that it be the Red Queen .
` She 's grow a good deal ! '
be her first remark .
She have indeed : when Alice first find her in the ash , she have be only three inch high -- and here she be , half a head taller than Alice herself !
` It 's the fresh air that do it , ' say the Rose : ` wonderfully fine air it be , out here . ' '
I think I 'll go and meet her , ' say Alice , for , though the flower be interesting enough , she felt that it would be far grander to have a talk with a real Queen .
` You ca n't possibly do that , ' say the Rose : ' I should advise you to walk the other way . '
This sound nonsense to Alice , so she say nothing , but set off at once towards the Red Queen .
To her surprise , she lose sight of her in a moment , and find herself walk in at the front-door again .
A little provoked , she draw back , and after look everywhere for the queen -LRB- whom she spy out at last , a long way off -RRB- , she think she would try the plan , this time , of walk in the opposite direction .
It succeed beautifully .
She have not be walk a minute before she find herself face to face with the Red Queen , and full in sight of the hill she have be so long aim at .
` Where do you come from ? '
say the Red Queen .
` And where be you go ?
Look up , speak nicely , and do n't twiddle your finger all the time . '
Alice attend to all these direction , and explain , as well a she could , that she have lose her way . '
I do n't know what you mean by YOUR way , ' say the Queen : ` all the way about here belong to ME -- but why do you come out here at all ? '
she add in a kinder tone .
` Curtsey while you 're think what to say , it save time . '
Alice wonder a little at this , but she be too much in awe of the Queen to disbelieve it .
` I 'll try it when I go home , ' she think to herself , ` the next time I 'm a little late for dinner . '
` It 's time for you to answer now , ' the Queen say , look at her watch : ` open your mouth a LITTLE wider when you speak , and always say `` your Majesty . '' ' '
I only want to see what the garden be like , your Majesty -- ' ` That 's right , ' say the Queen , pat her on the head , which Alice do n't like at all , ` though , when you say `` garden , '' -- I 'VE see garden , compare with which this would be a wilderness . '
Alice do n't dare to argue the point , but go on : ' -- and I think I 'd try and find my way to the top of that hill -- ' ` When you say `` hill , '' ' the Queen interrupt , ' I could show you hill , in comparison with which you 'd call that a valley . '
` No , I should n't , ' say Alice , surprise into contradict her at last : ' a hill CA N'T be a valley , you know .
That would be nonsense -- ' The Red Queen shake her head , ` You may call it `` nonsense '' if you like , ' she say , ` but I 'VE hear nonsense , compare with which that would be as sensible a a dictionary ! '
Alice curtsey again , a she be afraid from the Queen 's tone that she be a LITTLE offended : and they walk on in silence till they get to the top of the little hill .
For some minute Alice stand without speaking , look out in all direction over the country -- and a most curious country it be .
There be a number of tiny little brook run straight across it from side to side , and the ground between be divide up into square by a number of little green hedge , that reach from brook to brook . '
I declare it 's mark out just like a large chessboard ! '
Alice say at last .
` There ought to be some men move about somewhere -- and so there be ! '
She add in a tone of delight , and her heart begin to beat quick with excitement a she go on .
` It 's a great huge game of chess that 's be play -- all over the world -- if this IS the world at all , you know .
Oh , what fun it be !
How I WISH I be one of them !
I would n't mind be a Pawn , if only I might join -- though of course I should LIKE to be a Queen , best . '
She glance rather shyly at the real Queen a she say this , but her companion only smile pleasantly , and say , ` That 's easily manage .
You can be the White Queen 's Pawn , if you like , a Lily 's too young to play ; and you 're in the Second Square to begin with : when you get to the Eighth Square you 'll be a Queen -- ' Just at this moment , somehow or other , they begin to run .
Alice never could quite make out , in think it over afterwards , how it be that they begin : all she remembers be , that they be run hand in hand , and the Queen go so fast that it be all she could do to keep up with her : and still the Queen keep cry ` Faster !
Faster ! '
but Alice felt she COULD NOT go faster , though she have not breath left to say so .
The most curious part of the thing be , that the tree and the other thing round them never change their place at all : however fast they go , they never seem to pass anything . '
I wonder if all the thing move along with u ? '
think poor puzzled Alice .
And the Queen seem to guess her thought , for she cry , ` Faster !
Do n't try to talk ! '
Not that Alice have any idea of do THAT .
She felt a if she would never be able to talk again , she be get so much out of breath : and still the Queen cry ` Faster !
Faster ! '
and drag her along .
` Are we nearly there ? '
Alice manage to pant out at last .
` Nearly there ! '
the Queen repeat .
` Why , we pass it ten minute ago !
Faster ! '
And they run on for a time in silence , with the wind whistling in Alice 's ear , and almost blow her hair off her head , she fancy .
` Now !
Now ! '
cry the Queen .
` Faster !
Faster ! '
And they go so fast that at last they seem to skim through the air , hardly touch the ground with their foot , till suddenly , just a Alice be get quite exhaust , they stop , and she find herself sit on the ground , breathless and giddy .
The Queen prop her up against a tree , and say kindly , ` You may rest a little now . '
Alice look round her in great surprise .
` Why , I do believe we 've be under this tree the whole time !
Everything 's just a it be ! '
` Of course it be , ' say the Queen , ` what would you have it ? '
` Well , in OUR country , ' say Alice , still pant a little , ` you 'd generally get to somewhere else -- if you run very fast for a long time , a we 've be do . ' '
A slow sort of country ! '
say the Queen .
` Now , HERE , you see , it take all the run YOU can do , to keep in the same place .
If you want to get somewhere else , you must run at least twice as fast a that ! '
` I 'd rather not try , please ! '
say Alice .
` I 'm quite content to stay here -- only I AM so hot and thirsty ! ' '
I know what YOU 'D like ! '
the Queen say good-naturedly , take a little box out of her pocket .
` Have a biscuit ? '
Alice think it would not be civil to say ` No , ' though it be n't at all what she want .
So she take it , and eat it as well a she could : and it be VERY dry ; and she think she have never be so nearly choke in all her life .
` While you 're refresh yourself , ' say the Queen , ` I 'll just take the measurement . '
And she take a ribbon out of her pocket , mark in inch , and begin measure the ground , and stick little peg in here and there .
` At the end of two yard , ' she say , put in a peg to mark the distance , ' I shall give you your direction -- have another biscuit ? '
` No , thank you , ' say Alice : ` one 's QUITE enough ! '
` Thirst quench , I hope ? '
say the Queen .
Alice do not know what to say to this , but luckily the Queen do not wait for an answer , but go on .
` At the end of THREE yard I shall repeat them -- for fear of your forget them .
At the end of FOUR , I shall say good-bye .
And at the end of FIVE , I shall go ! '
She have get all the peg put in by this time , and Alice look on with great interest a she return to the tree , and then begin slowly walk down the row .
At the two-yard peg she face round , and say , ' A pawn go two square in it first move , you know .
So you 'll go VERY quickly through the Third Square -- by railway , I should think -- and you 'll find yourself in the Fourth Square in no time .
Well , THAT square belongs to Tweedledum and Tweedledee -- the Fifth be mostly water -- the Sixth belongs to Humpty Dumpty -- But you make no remark ? '
` I -- I do n't know I have to make one -- just then , ' Alice falter out .
` You SHOULD have say , `` It 's extremely kind of you to tell me all this '' -- however , we 'll suppose it say -- the Seventh Square be all forest -- however , one of the Knights will show you the way -- and in the Eighth Square we shall be Queens together , and it 's all feasting and fun ! '
Alice get up and curtsey , and sit down again .
At the next peg the Queen turn again , and this time she say , ` Speak in French when you ca n't think of the English for a thing -- turn out your toe a you walk -- and remember who you be ! '
She do not wait for Alice to curtsey this time , but walk on quickly to the next peg , where she turn for a moment to say ` good-bye , ' and then hurry on to the last .
How it happen , Alice never know , but exactly a she come to the last peg , she be go .
Whether she vanish into the air , or whether she run quickly into the wood -LRB- ` and she CAN run very fast ! '
think Alice -RRB- , there be no way of guessing , but she be go , and Alice begin to remember that she be a Pawn , and that it would soon be time for her to move .
CHAPTER III .
Looking-Glass Insects Of course the first thing to do be to make a grand survey of the country she be go to travel through .
` It 's something very like learn geography , ' thought Alice , a she stand on tiptoe in hope of be able to see a little further .
` Principal river -- there ARE none .
Principal mountain -- I 'm on the only one , but I do n't think it 's get any name .
Principal town -- why , what ARE those creature , make honey down there ?
They ca n't be bee -- nobody ever saw bee a mile off , you know -- ' and for some time she stand silent , watch one of them that be bustle about among the flower , poke it proboscis into them , ` just a if it be a regular bee , ' thought Alice .
However , this be anything but a regular bee : in fact it be an elephant -- a Alice soon find out , though the idea quite take her breath away at first .
` And what enormous flower they must be ! '
be her next idea .
` Something like cottage with the roof take off , and stalk put to them -- and what quantity of honey they must make !
I think I 'll go down and -- no , I wo n't JUST yet , ' she go on , check herself just a she be begin to run down the hill , and try to find some excuse for turn shy so suddenly .
` It 'll never do to go down among them without a good long branch to brush them away -- and what fun it 'll be when they ask me how I like my walk .
I shall say -- `` Oh , I like it well enough -- '' ' -LRB- here come the favourite little toss of the head -RRB- , ' `` only it be so dusty and hot , and the elephant do tease so ! '' ' '
I think I 'll go down the other way , ' she say after a pause : ` and perhaps I may visit the elephant later on .
Besides , I do so want to get into the Third Square ! '
So with this excuse she run down the hill and jump over the first of the six little brook .
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ` Tickets , please ! '
say the Guard , put his head in at the window .
In a moment everybody be hold out a ticket : they be about the same size a the people , and quite seem to fill the carriage .
` Now then !
Show your ticket , child ! '
the Guard go on , look angrily at Alice .
And a great many voice all say together -LRB- ` like the chorus of a song , ' thought Alice -RRB- , ` Do n't keep him wait , child !
Why , his time be worth a thousand pound a minute ! '
` I 'm afraid I have n't get one , ' Alice say in a frightened tone : ` there be n't a ticket-office where I come from . '
And again the chorus of voice go on .
` There be n't room for one where she come from .
The land there be worth a thousand pound an inch ! '
` Do n't make excuse , ' say the Guard : ` you should have buy one from the engine-driver . '
And once more the chorus of voice go on with ` The man that drive the engine .
Why , the smoke alone be worth a thousand pound a puff ! '
Alice think to herself , ` Then there 's no use in speaking . '
The voice do n't join in this time , a she have n't speak , but to her great surprise , they all THOUGHT in chorus -LRB- I hope you understand what THINKING IN CHORUS mean -- for I must confess that I do n't -RRB- , ` Better say nothing at all .
Language be worth a thousand pound a word ! ' '
I shall dream about a thousand pound tonight , I know I shall ! '
thought Alice .
All this time the Guard be look at her , first through a telescope , then through a microscope , and then through an opera-glass .
At last he say , ` You 're travel the wrong way , ' and shut up the window and go away .
` So young a child , ' say the gentleman sit opposite to her -LRB- he be dress in white paper -RRB- , ` ought to know which way she 's go , even if she do n't know her own name ! '
A Goat , that be sit next to the gentleman in white , shut his eye and say in a loud voice , ` She ought to know her way to the ticket-office , even if she do n't know her alphabet ! '
There be a Beetle sit next to the Goat -LRB- it be a very queer carriage-full of passenger altogether -RRB- , and , a the rule seem to be that they should all speak in turn , HE go on with ` She 'll have to go back from here a luggage ! '
Alice could n't see who be sit beyond the Beetle , but a hoarse voice speak next .
` Change engine -- ' it say , and be oblige to leave off .
` It sound like a horse , ' Alice think to herself .
And an extremely small voice , close to her ear , say , ` You might make a joke on that -- something about `` horse '' and `` hoarse , '' you know . '
Then a very gentle voice in the distance say , ` She must be label `` Lass , with care , '' you know -- ' And after that other voice go on -LRB- ` What a number of people there be in the carriage ! '
think Alice -RRB- , say , ` She must go by post , a she 's get a head on her -- ' ` She must be send a a message by the telegraph -- ' ` She must draw the train herself the rest of the way -- ' and so on .
But the gentleman dress in white paper lean forward and whisper in her ear , ` Never mind what they all say , my dear , but take a return-ticket every time the train stop . '
` Indeed I sha n't ! '
Alice say rather impatiently . '
I do n't belong to this railway journey at all -- I be in a wood just now -- and I wish I could get back there . '
` You might make a joke on THAT , ' say the little voice close to her ear : ` something about `` you WOULD if you could , '' you know . '
` Do n't tease so , ' say Alice , look about in vain to see where the voice come from ; ` if you 're so anxious to have a joke make , why do n't you make one yourself ? '
The little voice sigh deeply : it be VERY unhappy , evidently , and Alice would have say something pity to comfort it , ` If it would only sigh like other people ! '
she think .
But this be such a wonderfully small sigh , that she would n't have hear it at all , if it have n't come QUITE close to her ear .
The consequence of this be that it tickle her ear very much , and quite take off her thought from the unhappiness of the poor little creature . '
I know you be a friend , ' the little voice go on ; ' a dear friend , and an old friend .
And you wo n't hurt me , though I AM an insect . '
` What kind of insect ? '
Alice inquire a little anxiously .
What she really want to know be , whether it could sting or not , but she think this would n't be quite a civil question to ask .
` What , then you do n't -- ' the little voice begin , when it be drown by a shrill scream from the engine , and everybody jump up in alarm , Alice among the rest .
The Horse , who have put his head out of the window , quietly draw it in and say , ` It 's only a brook we have to jump over . '
Everybody seem satisfied with this , though Alice felt a little nervous at the idea of train jump at all .
` However , it 'll take u into the Fourth Square , that 's some comfort ! '
she say to herself .
In another moment she felt the carriage rise straight up into the air , and in her fright she catch at the thing near to her hand , which happen to be the Goat 's beard .
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * But the beard seem to melt away a she touch it , and she find herself sit quietly under a tree -- while the Gnat -LRB- for that be the insect she have be talk to -RRB- be balance itself on a twig just over her head , and fan her with it wing .
It certainly be a VERY large Gnat : ` about the size of a chicken , ' Alice think .
Still , she could n't feel nervous with it , after they have be talk together so long . '
-- then you do n't like all insect ? '
the Gnat go on , as quietly a if nothing have happen . '
I like them when they can talk , ' Alice say .
` None of them ever talk , where I come from . '
` What sort of insect do you rejoice in , where YOU come from ? '
the Gnat inquire . '
I do n't REJOICE in insect at all , ' Alice explain , ` because I 'm rather afraid of them -- at least the large kind .
But I can tell you the name of some of them . '
` Of course they answer to their name ? '
the Gnat remark carelessly . '
I never know them to do it . '
` What 's the use of their have name , ' the Gnat say , ` if they wo n't answer to them ? '
` No use to THEM , ' say Alice ; ` but it 's useful to the people who name them , I suppose .
If not , why do thing have name at all ? ' '
I ca n't say , ' the Gnat reply .
` Further on , in the wood down there , they 've get no name -- however , go on with your list of insect : you 're waste time . '
` Well , there 's the Horse-fly , ' Alice begin , count off the name on her finger .
` All right , ' say the Gnat : ` half way up that bush , you 'll see a Rocking-horse-fly , if you look .
It 's make entirely of wood , and get about by swing itself from branch to branch . '
` What do it live on ? '
Alice ask , with great curiosity .
` Sap and sawdust , ' say the Gnat .
` Go on with the list . '
Alice look up at the Rocking-horse-fly with great interest , and make up her mind that it must have be just repaint , it look so bright and sticky ; and then she go on .
` And there 's the Dragon-fly . '
` Look on the branch above your head , ' say the Gnat , ` and there you 'll find a snap-dragon-fly .
Its body be make of plum-pudding , it wing of holly-leaves , and it head be a raisin burning in brandy . '
` And what do it live on ? '
` Frumenty and mince pie , ' the Gnat reply ; ` and it make it nest in a Christmas box . '
` And then there 's the Butterfly , ' Alice go on , after she have take a good look at the insect with it head on fire , and have think to herself , ' I wonder if that 's the reason insect be so fond of fly into candle -- because they want to turn into Snap-dragon-flies ! '
` Crawling at your foot , ' say the Gnat -LRB- Alice draw her foot back in some alarm -RRB- , ` you may observe a Bread-and-Butterfly .
Its wing be thin slice of Bread-and-butter , it body be a crust , and it head be a lump of sugar . '
` And what do IT live on ? '
` Weak tea with cream in it . '
A new difficulty come into Alice 's head .
` Supposing it could n't find any ? '
she suggest .
` Then it would die , of course . '
` But that must happen very often , ' Alice remark thoughtfully .
` It always happen , ' say the Gnat .
After this , Alice be silent for a minute or two , ponder .
The Gnat amuse itself meanwhile by hum round and round her head : at last it settle again and remark , ' I suppose you do n't want to lose your name ? '
` No , indeed , ' Alice say , a little anxiously .
` And yet I do n't know , ' the Gnat go on in a careless tone : ` only think how convenient it would be if you could manage to go home without it !
For instance , if the governess want to call you to your lesson , she would call out `` come here -- , '' and there she would have to leave off , because there would n't be any name for her to call , and of course you would n't have to go , you know . '
` That would never do , I 'm sure , ' say Alice : ` the governess would never think of excuse me lesson for that .
If she could n't remember my name , she 'd call me `` Miss ! ''
a the servant do . '
` Well , if she say `` Miss , '' and do n't say anything more , ' the Gnat remark , ` of course you 'd miss your lesson .
That 's a joke .
I wish YOU have make it . '
` Why do you wish I have make it ? '
Alice ask .
` It 's a very bad one . '
But the Gnat only sigh deeply , while two large tear come roll down it cheek .
` You should n't make joke , ' Alice say , ` if it make you so unhappy . '
Then come another of those melancholy little sigh , and this time the poor Gnat really seem to have sigh itself away , for , when Alice look up , there be nothing whatever to be see on the twig , and , a she be get quite chilly with sit still so long , she get up and walk on .
She very soon come to an open field , with a wood on the other side of it : it look much dark than the last wood , and Alice felt a LITTLE timid about go into it .
However , on second thought , she make up her mind to go on : ` for I certainly wo n't go BACK , ' she think to herself , and this be the only way to the Eighth Square .
` This must be the wood , ' she say thoughtfully to herself , ` where thing have no name .
I wonder what 'll become of MY name when I go in ?
I should n't like to lose it at all -- because they 'd have to give me another , and it would be almost certain to be an ugly one .
But then the fun would be try to find the creature that have get my old name !
That 's just like the advertisement , you know , when people lose dog -- `` ANSWERS TO THE NAME OF ` DASH : ' HAD ON A BRASS COLLAR '' -- just fancy call everything you meet `` Alice , '' till one of them answer !
Only they would n't answer at all , if they be wise . '
She be ramble on in this way when she reach the wood : it look very cool and shady .
` Well , at any rate it 's a great comfort , ' she say a she step under the tree , ` after be so hot , to get into the -- into WHAT ? '
she go on , rather surprise at not be able to think of the word . '
I mean to get under the -- under the -- under THIS , you know ! '
put her hand on the trunk of the tree .
` What DOES it call itself , I wonder ?
I do believe it 's get no name -- why , to be sure it have n't ! '
She stand silent for a minute , thinking : then she suddenly begin again .
` Then it really HAS happen , after all !
And now , who be I ?
I WILL remember , if I can !
I 'm determined to do it ! '
But be determine do n't help much , and all she could say , after a great deal of puzzling , be , ` L , I KNOW it begin with L ! '
Just then a Fawn come wander by : it look at Alice with it large gentle eye , but do n't seem at all frighten .
` Here then !
Here then ! '
Alice say , a she hold out her hand and try to stroke it ; but it only start back a little , and then stand look at her again .
` What do you call yourself ? '
the Fawn say at last .
Such a soft sweet voice it have ! '
I wish I know ! '
think poor Alice .
She answer , rather sadly , ` Nothing , just now . '
` Think again , ' it say : ` that wo n't do . '
Alice think , but nothing come of it .
` Please , would you tell me what YOU call yourself ? '
she say timidly . '
I think that might help a little . '
` I 'll tell you , if you 'll move a little further on , ' the Fawn say . '
I ca n't remember here . '
So they walk on together though the wood , Alice with her arm clasp lovingly round the soft neck of the Fawn , till they come out into another open field , and here the Fawn give a sudden bound into the air , and shake itself free from Alice 's arm .
` I 'm a Fawn ! '
it cry out in a voice of delight , ` and , dear me !
you 're a human child ! '
A sudden look of alarm come into it beautiful brown eye , and in another moment it have dart away at full speed .
Alice stand look after it , almost ready to cry with vexation at have lose her dear little fellow-traveller so suddenly .
` However , I know my name now . '
she say , ` that 's SOME comfort .
Alice -- Alice -- I wo n't forget it again .
And now , which of these finger-posts ought I to follow , I wonder ? '
It be not a very difficult question to answer , a there be only one road through the wood , and the two finger-posts both point along it .
` I 'll settle it , ' Alice say to herself , ` when the road divide and they point different way . '
But this do not seem likely to happen .
She go on and on , a long way , but wherever the road divide there be sure to be two finger-posts point the same way , one mark ` TO TWEEDLEDUM 'S HOUSE ' and the other ` TO THE HOUSE OF TWEEDLEDEE . ' '
I do believe , ' say Alice at last , ` that they live in the same house !
I wonder I never think of that before -- But I ca n't stay there long .
I 'll just call and say `` how d'you do ? ''
and ask them the way out of the wood .
If I could only get to the Eighth Square before it get dark ! '
So she wander on , talk to herself a she go , till , on turn a sharp corner , she come upon two fat little men , so suddenly that she could not help start back , but in another moment she recover herself , feel sure that they must be .
CHAPTER IV .
Tweedledum And Tweedledee They be stand under a tree , each with an arm round the other 's neck , and Alice know which be which in a moment , because one of them have ` DUM ' embroider on his collar , and the other ` DEE . ' '
I suppose they 've each get `` TWEEDLE '' round at the back of the collar , ' she say to herself .
They stand so still that she quite forget they be alive , and she be just look round to see if the word `` TWEEDLE '' be write at the back of each collar , when she be startle by a voice come from the one mark ` DUM . '
` If you think we 're wax-works , ' he say , ` you ought to pay , you know .
Wax-works be n't make to be look at for nothing , nohow ! '
` Contrariwise , ' add the one mark ` DEE , ' ` if you think we 're alive , you ought to speak . '
` I 'm sure I 'm very sorry , ' be all Alice could say ; for the word of the old song keep ring through her head like the ticking of a clock , and she could hardly help say them out loud : -- ` Tweedledum and Tweedledee Agreed to have a battle ; For Tweedledum say Tweedledee Had spoil his nice new rattle .
Just then fly down a monstrous crow , As black a a tar-barrel ; Which frighten both the hero so , They quite forget their quarrel . ' '
I know what you 're think about , ' say Tweedledum : ` but it be n't so , nohow . '
` Contrariwise , ' continue Tweedledee , ` if it be so , it might be ; and if it be so , it would be ; but a it be n't , it ai n't .
That 's logic . ' '
I be think , ' Alice say very politely , ` which be the best way out of this wood : it 's get so dark .
Would you tell me , please ? '
But the little men only look at each other and grin .
They look so exactly like a couple of great schoolboy , that Alice could n't help point her finger at Tweedledum , and say ` First Boy ! '
` Nohow ! '
Tweedledum cry out briskly , and shut his mouth up again with a snap .
` Next Boy ! '
say Alice , pass on to Tweedledee , though she felt quite certain he would only shout out ` Contrariwise ! '
and so he do .
` You 've be wrong ! '
cry Tweedledum .
` The first thing in a visit be to say `` How d 'ye do ? ''
and shake hand ! '
And here the two brother give each other a hug , and then they hold out the two hand that be free , to shake hand with her .
Alice do not like shake hand with either of them first , for fear of hurt the other one 's feeling ; so , a the best way out of the difficulty , she take hold of both hand at once : the next moment they be dance round in a ring .
This seem quite natural -LRB- she remember afterwards -RRB- , and she be not even surprise to hear music playing : it seem to come from the tree under which they be dance , and it be do -LRB- as well a she could make it out -RRB- by the branch rub one across the other , like fiddle and fiddle-sticks .
` But it certainly WAS funny , ' -LRB- Alice say afterwards , when she be tell her sister the history of all this , -RRB- ` to find myself sing `` HERE WE GO ROUND THE MULBERRY BUSH . ''
I do n't know when I begin it , but somehow I felt a if I 'd be sing it a long long time ! '
The other two dancer be fat , and very soon out of breath .
` Four time round be enough for one dance , ' Tweedledum pant out , and they leave off dance as suddenly a they have begin : the music stop at the same moment .
Then they let go of Alice 's hand , and stand look at her for a minute : there be a rather awkward pause , a Alice do n't know how to begin a conversation with people she have just be dance with .
` It would never do to say `` How d 'ye do ? ''
NOW , ' she say to herself : ` we seem to have get beyond that , somehow ! ' '
I hope you 're not much tire ? '
she say at last .
` Nohow .
And thank you VERY much for ask , ' say Tweedledum .
` So much obliged ! '
add Tweedledee .
` You like poetry ? '
` Ye-es , pretty well -- SOME poetry , ' Alice say doubtfully .
` Would you tell me which road lead out of the wood ? '
` What shall I repeat to her ? '
say Tweedledee , look round at Tweedledum with great solemn eye , and not noticing Alice 's question . '
`` THE WALRUS AND THE CARPENTER '' be the long , ' Tweedledum reply , give his brother an affectionate hug .
Tweedledee begin instantly : ` The sun be shin -- ' Here Alice venture to interrupt him .
` If it 's VERY long , ' she say , as politely a she could , ` would you please tell me first which road -- ' Tweedledee smile gently , and begin again : ` The sun be shin on the sea , Shining with all his might : He do his very best to make The billow smooth and bright -- And this be odd , because it be The middle of the night .
The moon be shin sulkily , Because she think the sun Had get no business to be there After the day be do -- `` It 's very rude of him , '' she say , `` To come and spoil the fun ! ''
The sea be wet a wet could be , The sand be dry a dry .
You could not see a cloud , because No cloud be in the sky : No bird be fly over head -- There be no bird to fly .
The Walrus and the Carpenter Were walk close at hand ; They weep like anything to see Such quantity of sand : `` If this be only clear away , '' They say , `` it WOULD be grand ! ''
`` If seven maid with seven mop Swept it for half a year , Do you suppose , '' the Walrus say , `` That they could get it clear ? ''
`` I doubt it , '' say the Carpenter , And shed a bitter tear .
`` O Oysters , come and walk with u ! ''
The Walrus do beseech .
`` A pleasant walk , a pleasant talk , Along the briny beach : We can not do with more than four , To give a hand to each . ''
The eldest Oyster look at him .
But never a word he say : The eldest Oyster wink his eye , And shake his heavy head -- Meaning to say he do not choose To leave the oyster-bed .
But four young oyster hurry up , All eager for the treat : Their coat be brush , their face wash , Their shoe be clean and neat -- And this be odd , because , you know , They have n't any foot .
Four other Oysters follow them , And yet another four ; And thick and fast they come at last , And more , and more , and more -- All hopping through the frothy wave , And scramble to the shore .
The Walrus and the Carpenter Walked on a mile or so , And then they rest on a rock Conveniently low : And all the little Oysters stand And wait in a row .
`` The time have come , '' the Walrus say , `` To talk of many thing : Of shoe -- and ship -- and sealing-wax -- Of cabbage -- and king -- And why the sea be boil hot -- And whether pig have wing . ''
`` But wait a bit , '' the Oysters cry , `` Before we have our chat ; For some of u be out of breath , And all of u be fat ! ''
`` No hurry ! ''
say the Carpenter .
They thank him much for that .
`` A loaf of bread , '' the Walrus say , `` Is what we chiefly need : Pepper and vinegar besides Are very good indeed -- Now if you 're ready Oysters dear , We can begin to fee . ''
`` But not on u ! ''
the Oysters cry , Turning a little blue , `` After such kindness , that would be A dismal thing to do ! ''
`` The night be fine , '' the Walrus say `` Do you admire the view ?
`` It be so kind of you to come !
And you be very nice ! ''
The Carpenter say nothing but `` Cut u another slice : I wish you be not quite so deaf -- I 've have to ask you twice ! ''
`` It seem a shame , '' the Walrus say , `` To play them such a trick , After we 've bring them out so far , And make them trot so quick ! ''
The Carpenter say nothing but `` The butter 's spread too thick ! ''
`` I weep for you , '' the Walrus say .
`` I deeply sympathize . ''
With sob and tear he sort out Those of the large size .
Holding his pocket handkerchief Before his stream eye .
`` O Oysters , '' say the Carpenter .
`` You 've have a pleasant run !
Shall we be trot home again ? ''
But answer come there none -- And that be scarcely odd , because They 'd eat every one . ' '
I like the Walrus best , ' say Alice : ` because you see he be a LITTLE sorry for the poor oyster . '
` He eat more than the Carpenter , though , ' say Tweedledee .
` You see he hold his handkerchief in front , so that the Carpenter could n't count how many he take : contrariwise . '
` That be mean ! '
Alice say indignantly .
` Then I like the Carpenter best -- if he do n't eat so many a the Walrus . '
` But he eat as many a he could get , ' say Tweedledum .
This be a puzzler .
After a pause , Alice begin , ` Well !
They be BOTH very unpleasant character -- ' Here she check herself in some alarm , at hear something that sound to her like the puffing of a large steam-engine in the wood near them , though she fear it be more likely to be a wild beast .
` Are there any lion or tiger about here ? '
she ask timidly .
` It 's only the Red King snoring , ' say Tweedledee .
` Come and look at him ! '
the brother cry , and they each take one of Alice 's hand , and lead her up to where the King be sleep .
` Is n't he a LOVELY sight ? '
say Tweedledum .
Alice could n't say honestly that he be .
He have a tall red night-cap on , with a tassel , and he be lie crumple up into a sort of untidy heap , and snore loud -- ` fit to snore his head off ! '
a Tweedledum remark .
` I 'm afraid he 'll catch cold with lie on the damp grass , ' say Alice , who be a very thoughtful little girl .
` He 's dream now , ' say Tweedledee : ` and what do you think he 's dream about ? '
Alice say ` Nobody can guess that . '
` Why , about YOU ! '
Tweedledee exclaim , clap his hand triumphantly .
` And if he leave off dream about you , where do you suppose you 'd be ? '
` Where I be now , of course , ' say Alice .
` Not you ! '
Tweedledee retort contemptuously .
` You 'd be nowhere .
Why , you 're only a sort of thing in his dream ! '
` If that there King be to wake , ' add Tweedledum , ` you 'd go out -- bang !
-- just like a candle ! ' '
I should n't ! '
Alice exclaim indignantly .
` Besides , if I 'M only a sort of thing in his dream , what be YOU , I should like to know ? '
` Ditto ' say Tweedledum .
` Ditto , ditto ' cry Tweedledee .
He shout this so loud that Alice could n't help say , ` Hush !
You 'll be wake him , I 'm afraid , if you make so much noise . '
` Well , it no use YOUR talk about wake him , ' say Tweedledum , ` when you 're only one of the thing in his dream .
You know very well you 're not real . ' '
I AM real ! '
say Alice and begin to cry .
` You wo n't make yourself a bit realler by cry , ' Tweedledee remark : ` there 's nothing to cry about . '
` If I be n't real , ' Alice say -- half-laughing through her tear , it all seem so ridiculous -- ' I should n't be able to cry . ' '
I hope you do n't suppose those be real tear ? '
Tweedledum interrupt in a tone of great contempt . '
I know they 're talk nonsense , ' Alice think to herself : ` and it 's foolish to cry about it . '
So she brush away her tear , and go on as cheerfully a she could .
` At any rate I 'd well be get out of the wood , for really it 's come on very dark .
Do you think it 's go to rain ? '
Tweedledum spread a large umbrella over himself and his brother , and look up into it .
` No , I do n't think it be , ' he say : ` at least -- not under HERE .
Nohow . '
` But it may rain OUTSIDE ? '
` It may -- if it choose , ' say Tweedledee : ` we 've no objection .
Contrariwise . '
` Selfish thing ! '
thought Alice , and she be just go to say ` Good-night ' and leave them , when Tweedledum spring out from under the umbrella and seize her by the wrist .
` Do you see THAT ? '
he say , in a voice choke with passion , and his eye grow large and yellow all in a moment , a he point with a trembling finger at a small white thing lie under the tree .
` It 's only a rattle , ' Alice say , after a careful examination of the little white thing .
` Not a rattleSNAKE , you know , ' she add hastily , think that he be frighten : ` only an old rattle -- quite old and broken . ' '
I know it be ! '
cry Tweedledum , begin to stamp about wildly and tear his hair .
` It 's spoilt , of course ! '
Here he look at Tweedledee , who immediately sit down on the ground , and try to hide himself under the umbrella .
Alice lay her hand upon his arm , and say in a soothing tone , ` You need n't be so angry about an old rattle . '
` But it be n't old ! '
Tweedledum cry , in a great fury than ever .
` It 's new , I tell you -- I buy it yesterday -- my nice new RATTLE ! '
and his voice rise to a perfect scream .
All this time Tweedledee be try his best to fold up the umbrella , with himself in it : which be such an extraordinary thing to do , that it quite take off Alice 's attention from the angry brother .
But he could n't quite succeed , and it end in his rolling over , bundle up in the umbrella , with only his head out : and there he lay , open and shut his mouth and his large eye -- ` look more like a fish than anything else , ' Alice think .
` Of course you agree to have a battle ? '
Tweedledum say in a calmer tone . '
I suppose so , ' the other sulkily reply , a he crawl out of the umbrella : ` only SHE must help u to dress up , you know . '
So the two brother go off hand-in-hand into the wood , and return in a minute with their arm full of thing -- such a bolster , blanket , hearth-rugs , table-cloths , dish-covers and coal-scuttles . '
I hope you 're a good hand at pinning and tie string ? '
Tweedledum remark .
` Every one of these thing have get to go on , somehow or other . '
Alice say afterwards she have never see such a fuss make about anything in all her life -- the way those two bustle about -- and the quantity of thing they put on -- and the trouble they give her in tie string and fastening button -- ` Really they 'll be more like bundle of old clothes than anything else , by the time they 're ready ! '
she say to herself , a she arrange a bolster round the neck of Tweedledee , ` to keep his head from be cut off , ' a he say .
` You know , ' he add very gravely , ` it 's one of the most serious thing that can possibly happen to one in a battle -- to get one 's head cut off . '
Alice laugh aloud : but she manage to turn it into a cough , for fear of hurt his feeling .
` Do I look very pale ? '
say Tweedledum , come up to have his helmet tie on .
-LRB- He CALLED it a helmet , though it certainly look much more like a saucepan . -RRB-
` Well -- yes -- a LITTLE , ' Alice reply gently .
` I 'm very brave generally , ' he go on in a low voice : ` only to-day I happen to have a headache . '
` And I 'VE get a toothache ! '
say Tweedledee , who have overheard the remark .
` I 'm far bad off than you ! '
` Then you 'd better not fight to-day , ' say Alice , think it a good opportunity to make peace .
` We MUST have a bit of a fight , but I do n't care about go on long , ' say Tweedledum .
` What 's the time now ? '
Tweedledee look at his watch , and say ` Half-past four . '
` Let 's fight till six , and then have dinner , ' say Tweedledum .
` Very well , ' the other say , rather sadly : ` and SHE can watch u -- only you 'd better not come VERY close , ' he add : ' I generally hit everything I can see -- when I get really excite . '
` And I hit everything within reach , ' cry Tweedledum , ` whether I can see it or not ! '
Alice laugh .
` You must hit the TREES pretty often , I should think , ' she say .
Tweedledum look round him with a satisfied smile . '
I do n't suppose , ' he say , ` there 'll be a tree left standing , for ever so far round , by the time we 've finish ! '
` And all about a rattle ! '
say Alice , still hop to make them a LITTLE ashamed of fight for such a trifle . '
I should n't have mind it so much , ' say Tweedledum , ` if it have n't be a new one . ' '
I wish the monstrous crow would come ! '
thought Alice .
` There 's only one sword , you know , ' Tweedledum say to his brother : ` but you can have the umbrella -- it 's quite a sharp .
Only we must begin quick .
It 's get as dark a it can . '
` And darker , ' say Tweedledee .
It be get dark so suddenly that Alice think there must be a thunderstorm come on .
` What a thick black cloud that be ! '
she say .
` And how fast it come !
Why , I do believe it 's get wing ! '
` It 's the crow ! '
Tweedledum cry out in a shrill voice of alarm : and the two brother take to their heel and be out of sight in a moment .
Alice run a little way into the wood , and stop under a large tree .
` It can never get at me HERE , ' she think : ` it 's far too large to squeeze itself in among the tree .
But I wish it would n't flap it wing so -- it make quite a hurricane in the wood -- here 's somebody 's shawl be blow away ! '
CHAPTER V. Wool and Water She catch the shawl a she speak , and look about for the owner : in another moment the White Queen come run wildly through the wood , with both arm stretch out wide , a if she be fly , and Alice very civilly go to meet her with the shawl .
` I 'm very glad I happen to be in the way , ' Alice say , a she help her to put on her shawl again .
The White Queen only look at her in a helpless frighten sort of way , and keep repeat something in a whisper to herself that sound like ` bread-and-butter , bread-and-butter , ' and Alice felt that if there be to be any conversation at all , she must manage it herself .
So she begin rather timidly : ` Am I address the White Queen ? '
` Well , yes , if you call that a-dressing , ' The Queen say .
` It be n't MY notion of the thing , at all . '
Alice think it would never do to have an argument at the very begin of their conversation , so she smile and say , ` If your Majesty will only tell me the right way to begin , I 'll do it as well a I can . '
` But I do n't want it do at all ! '
groan the poor Queen .
` I 've be a-dressing myself for the last two hour . '
It would have be all the good , a it seem to Alice , if she have got some one else to dress her , she be so dreadfully untidy .
` Every single thing 's crook , ' Alice think to herself , ` and she 's all over pin !
-- may I put your shawl straight for you ? '
she add aloud . '
I do n't know what 's the matter with it ! '
the Queen say , in a melancholy voice .
` It 's out of temper , I think .
I 've pin it here , and I 've pin it there , but there 's no please it ! '
` It CA N'T go straight , you know , if you pin it all on one side , ' Alice say , a she gently put it right for her ; ` and , dear me , what a state your hair be in ! '
` The brush have get entangle in it ! '
the Queen say with a sigh .
` And I lose the comb yesterday . '
Alice carefully release the brush , and do her best to get the hair into order .
` Come , you look rather well now ! '
she say , after alter most of the pin .
` But really you should have a lady 's maid ! '
` I 'm sure I 'll take you with pleasure ! '
the Queen say .
` Twopence a week , and jam every other day . '
Alice could n't help laugh , a she say , ' I do n't want you to hire ME -- and I do n't care for jam . '
` It 's very good jam , ' say the Queen .
` Well , I do n't want any TO-DAY , at any rate . '
` You could n't have it if you DID want it , ' the Queen say .
` The rule be , jam to-morrow and jam yesterday -- but never jam to-day . '
` It MUST come sometimes to `` jam to-day , '' ' Alice object .
` No , it ca n't , ' say the Queen .
` It 's jam every OTHER day : to-day be n't any OTHER day , you know . ' '
I do n't understand you , ' say Alice .
` It 's dreadfully confusing ! '
` That 's the effect of living backwards , ' the Queen say kindly : ` it always make one a little giddy at first -- ' ` Living backwards ! '
Alice repeat in great astonishment . '
I never heard of such a thing ! ' '
-- but there 's one great advantage in it , that one 's memory work both way . '
` I 'm sure MINE only work one way , ' Alice remark . '
I ca n't remember thing before they happen . '
` It 's a poor sort of memory that only work backwards , ' the Queen remark .
` What sort of thing do YOU remember best ? '
Alice venture to ask .
` Oh , thing that happen the week after next , ' the Queen reply in a careless tone .
` For instance , now , ' she go on , stick a large piece of plaster -LSB- band-aid -RSB- on her finger a she speak , ` there 's the King 's Messenger .
He 's in prison now , be punish : and the trial do n't even begin till next Wednesday : and of course the crime come last of all . '
` Suppose he never commit the crime ? '
say Alice .
` That would be all the good , would n't it ? '
the Queen say , a she bind the plaster round her finger with a bit of ribbon .
Alice felt there be no denying THAT .
` Of course it would be all the good , ' she say : ` but it would n't be all the good his be punish . '
` You 're wrong THERE , at any rate , ' say the Queen : ` be YOU ever punish ? '
` Only for fault , ' say Alice .
` And you be all the good for it , I know ! '
the Queen say triumphantly .
` Yes , but then I HAD do the thing I be punish for , ' say Alice : ` that make all the difference . '
` But if you HAD N'T do them , ' the Queen say , ` that would have be good still ; good , and good , and well ! '
Her voice go high with each ` well , ' till it get quite to a squeak at last .
Alice be just begin to say ` There 's a mistake somewhere -- , ' when the Queen begin scream so loud that she have to leave the sentence unfinished .
` Oh , oh , oh ! '
shout the Queen , shake her hand about a if she want to shake it off .
` My finger 's bleeding !
Oh , oh , oh , oh ! '
Her scream be so exactly like the whistle of a steam-engine , that Alice have to hold both her hand over her ear .
` What IS the matter ? '
she say , as soon a there be a chance of make herself heard .
` Have you prick your finger ? ' '
I have n't prick it YET , ' the Queen say , ` but I soon shall -- oh , oh , oh ! '
` When do you expect to do it ? '
Alice ask , feel very much incline to laugh .
` When I fasten my shawl again , ' the poor Queen groan out : ` the brooch will come undone directly .
Oh , oh ! '
As she say the word the brooch fly open , and the Queen clutch wildly at it , and try to clasp it again .
` Take care ! '
cried Alice .
` You 're hold it all crook ! '
And she catch at the brooch ; but it be too late : the pin have slip , and the Queen have prick her finger .
` That account for the bleeding , you see , ' she say to Alice with a smile .
` Now you understand the way thing happen here . '
` But why do n't you scream now ? '
Alice ask , hold her hand ready to put over her ear again .
` Why , I 've do all the scream already , ' say the Queen .
` What would be the good of have it all over again ? '
By this time it be get light .
` The crow must have fly away , I think , ' say Alice : ` I 'm so glad it 's go .
I think it be the night come on . ' '
I wish I could manage to be glad ! '
the Queen say .
` Only I never can remember the rule .
You must be very happy , live in this wood , and be glad whenever you like ! '
` Only it be so VERY lonely here ! '
Alice say in a melancholy voice ; and at the thought of her loneliness two large tear come roll down her cheek .
` Oh , do n't go on like that ! '
cry the poor Queen , wring her hand in despair .
` Consider what a great girl you be .
Consider what a long way you 've come to-day .
Consider what o'clock it be .
Consider anything , only do n't cry ! '
Alice could not help laugh at this , even in the midst of her tear .
` Can YOU keep from cry by consider thing ? '
she ask .
` That 's the way it 's do , ' the Queen say with great decision : ` nobody can do two thing at once , you know .
Let 's consider your age to begin with -- how old be you ? '
` I 'm seven and a half exactly . '
` You need n't say `` exactually , '' ' the Queen remark : ' I can believe it without that .
Now I 'll give YOU something to believe .
I 'm just one hundred and one , five month and a day . ' '
I ca n't believe THAT ! '
say Alice .
` Ca n't you ? '
the Queen say in a pity tone .
` Try again : draw a long breath , and shut your eye . '
Alice laugh .
` There 's no use try , ' she say : ` one CA N'T believe impossible thing . ' '
I daresay you have n't have much practice , ' say the Queen .
` When I be your age , I always do it for half-an-hour a day .
Why , sometimes I 've believe as many a six impossible thing before breakfast .
There go the shawl again ! '
The brooch have come undone a she speak , and a sudden gust of wind blow the Queen 's shawl across a little brook .
The Queen spread out her arm again , and go fly after it , and this time she succeed in catch it for herself .
` I 've get it ! '
she cry in a triumphant tone .
` Now you shall see me pin it on again , all by myself ! '
` Then I hope your finger be well now ? '
Alice say very politely , a she cross the little brook after the Queen .
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ` Oh , much good ! '
cry the Queen , her voice rise to a squeak a she go on .
` Much be-etter !
Be-etter !
Be-e-e-etter !
Be-e-ehh ! '
The last word end in a long bleat , so like a sheep that Alice quite start .
She look at the Queen , who seem to have suddenly wrap herself up in wool .
Alice rub her eye , and look again .
She could n't make out what have happen at all .
Was she in a shop ?
And be that really -- be it really a SHEEP that be sit on the other side of the counter ?
Rub a she could , she could make nothing more of it : she be in a little dark shop , lean with her elbow on the counter , and opposite to her be an old Sheep , sit in an arm-chair knitting , and every now and then leave off to look at her through a great pair of spectacle .
` What be it you want to buy ? '
the Sheep say at last , look up for a moment from her knitting . '
I do n't QUITE know yet , ' Alice say , very gently . '
I should like to look all round me first , if I might . '
` You may look in front of you , and on both side , if you like , ' say the Sheep : ` but you ca n't look ALL round you -- unless you 've get eye at the back of your head . '
But these , a it happen , Alice have NOT get : so she content herself with turn round , look at the shelf a she come to them .
The shop seem to be full of all manner of curious thing -- but the odd part of it all be , that whenever she look hard at any shelf , to make out exactly what it have on it , that particular shelf be always quite empty : though the others round it be crowd as full a they could hold .
` Things flow about so here ! '
she say at last in a plaintive tone , after she have spend a minute or so in vainly pursue a large bright thing , that look sometimes like a doll and sometimes like a work-box , and be always in the shelf next above the one she be look at .
` And this one be the most provoking of all -- but I 'll tell you what -- ' she add , a a sudden thought strike her , ` I 'll follow it up to the very top shelf of all .
It 'll puzzle it to go through the ceiling , I expect ! '
But even this plan fail : the ` thing ' go through the ceiling as quietly a possible , a if it be quite use to it .
` Are you a child or a teetotum ? '
the Sheep say , a she take up another pair of needle .
` You 'll make me giddy soon , if you go on turn round like that . '
She be now work with fourteen pair at once , and Alice could n't help look at her in great astonishment .
` How CAN she knit with so many ? '
the puzzled child think to herself .
` She get more and more like a porcupine every minute ! '
` Can you row ? '
the Sheep ask , hand her a pair of knitting-needles a she speak .
` Yes , a little -- but not on land -- and not with needle -- ' Alice be begin to say , when suddenly the needle turn into oar in her hand , and she find they be in a little boat , glide along between bank : so there be nothing for it but to do her best .
` Feather ! '
cry the Sheep , a she take up another pair of needle .
This do n't sound like a remark that need any answer , so Alice say nothing , but pull away .
There be something very queer about the water , she think , a every now and then the oar get fast in it , and would hardly come out again .
` Feather !
Feather ! '
the Sheep cry again , take more needle .
` You 'll be catch a crab directly . ' '
A dear little crab ! '
thought Alice . '
I should like that . '
` Did n't you hear me say `` Feather '' ? '
the Sheep cry angrily , take up quite a bunch of needle .
` Indeed I do , ' say Alice : ` you 've say it very often -- and very loud .
Please , where ARE the crab ? '
` In the water , of course ! '
say the Sheep , stick some of the needle into her hair , a her hand be full .
` Feather , I say ! '
` WHY do you say `` feather '' so often ? '
Alice ask at last , rather vexed .
` I 'm not a bird ! '
` You be , ' say the Sheep : ` you 're a little goose . '
This offend Alice a little , so there be no more conversation for a minute or two , while the boat glide gently on , sometimes among bed of weed -LRB- which make the oar stick fast in the water , bad then ever -RRB- , and sometimes under tree , but always with the same tall river-banks frown over their head .
` Oh , please !
There be some scented rush ! '
Alice cry in a sudden transport of delight .
` There really be -- and SUCH beauty ! '
` You need n't say `` please '' to ME about 'em , ' the Sheep say , without look up from her knitting : ' I do n't put 'em there , and I 'm not go to take 'em away . '
` No , but I mean -- please , may we wait and pick some ? '
Alice plead .
` If you do n't mind stop the boat for a minute . '
` How be I to stop it ? '
say the Sheep .
` If you leave off rowing , it 'll stop of itself . '
So the boat be leave to drift down the stream a it would , till it glide gently in among the waving rush .
And then the little sleeve be carefully roll up , and the little arm be plunge in elbow-deep to get the rush a good long way down before break them off -- and for a while Alice forget all about the Sheep and the knitting , a she bend over the side of the boat , with just the end of her tangled hair dip into the water -- while with bright eager eye she catch at one bunch after another of the darling scent rush . '
I only hope the boat wo n't tipple over ! '
she say to herself .
` Oh , WHAT a lovely one !
Only I could n't quite reach it . '
` And it certainly DID seem a little provoking -LRB- ` almost a if it happen on purpose , ' she think -RRB- that , though she manage to pick plenty of beautiful rush a the boat glide by , there be always a more lovely one that she could n't reach .
` The prettiest be always far ! '
she say at last , with a sigh at the obstinacy of the rush in grow so far off , a , with flushed cheek and drip hair and hand , she scramble back into her place , and begin to arrange her new-found treasure .
What matter it to her just then that the rush have begin to fade , and to lose all their scent and beauty , from the very moment that she pick them ?
Even real scented rush , you know , last only a very little while -- and these , be dream-rushes , melt away almost like snow , a they lay in heap at her foot -- but Alice hardly notice this , there be so many other curious thing to think about .
They have n't go much far before the blade of one of the oar get fast in the water and WOULD N'T come out again -LRB- so Alice explain it afterwards -RRB- , and the consequence be that the handle of it catch her under the chin , and , in spite of a series of little shriek of ` Oh , oh , oh ! '
from poor Alice , it sweep her straight off the seat , and down among the heap of rush .
However , she be n't hurt , and be soon up again : the Sheep go on with her knit all the while , just a if nothing have happen .
` That be a nice crab you catch ! '
she remark , a Alice get back into her place , very much relieve to find herself still in the boat .
` Was it ?
I do n't see it , ' Said Alice , peep cautiously over the side of the boat into the dark water . '
I wish it have n't let go -- I should so like to see a little crab to take home with me ! '
But the Sheep only laugh scornfully , and go on with her knitting .
` Are there many crab here ? '
say Alice .
` Crabs , and all sort of thing , ' say the Sheep : ` plenty of choice , only make up your mind .
Now , what DO you want to buy ? '
` To buy ! '
Alice echoed in a tone that be half astonished and half frighten -- for the oar , and the boat , and the river , have vanish all in a moment , and she be back again in the little dark shop . '
I should like to buy an egg , please , ' she say timidly .
` How do you sell them ? '
` Fivepence farthing for one -- Twopence for two , ' the Sheep reply .
` Then two be cheap than one ? '
Alice say in a surprised tone , take out her purse .
` Only you MUST eat them both , if you buy two , ' say the Sheep .
` Then I 'll have ONE , please , ' say Alice , a she put the money down on the counter .
For she think to herself , ` They might n't be at all nice , you know . '
The Sheep take the money , and put it away in a box : then she say ' I never put thing into people 's hand -- that would never do -- you must get it for yourself . '
And so saying , she go off to the other end of the shop , and set the egg upright on a shelf . '
I wonder WHY it would n't do ? '
thought Alice , a she grope her way among the table and chair , for the shop be very dark towards the end .
` The egg seem to get far away the more I walk towards it .
Let me see , be this a chair ?
Why , it 's get branch , I declare !
How very odd to find tree grow here !
And actually here 's a little brook !
Well , this be the very queer shop I ever saw ! '
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * So she go on , wonder more and more at every step , a everything turn into a tree the moment she come up to it , and she quite expect the egg to do the same .
CHAPTER VI .
Humpty Dumpty However , the egg only get large and large , and more and more human : when she have come within a few yard of it , she saw that it have eye and a nose and mouth ; and when she have come close to it , she saw clearly that it be HUMPTY DUMPTY himself .
` It ca n't be anybody else ! '
she say to herself .
` I 'm a certain of it , a if his name be write all over his face . '
It might have be write a hundred time , easily , on that enormous face .
Humpty Dumpty be sit with his leg cross , like a Turk , on the top of a high wall -- such a narrow one that Alice quite wonder how he could keep his balance -- and , a his eye be steadily fix in the opposite direction , and he do n't take the least notice of her , she think he must be a stuffed figure after all .
` And how exactly like an egg he be ! '
she say aloud , stand with her hand ready to catch him , for she be every moment expect him to fall .
` It 's VERY provoking , ' Humpty Dumpty say after a long silence , look away from Alice a he speak , ` to be call an egg -- VERY ! ' '
I say you LOOKED like an egg , Sir , ' Alice gently explain .
` And some egg be very pretty , you know ' she add , hop to turn her remark into a sort of a compliment .
` Some people , ' say Humpty Dumpty , look away from her a usual , ` have no more sense than a baby ! '
Alice do n't know what to say to this : it be n't at all like conversation , she think , a he never say anything to HER ; in fact , his last remark be evidently address to a tree -- so she stand and softly repeat to herself : -- ` Humpty Dumpty sit on a wall : Humpty Dumpty have a great fall .
All the King 's horse and all the King 's men Could n't put Humpty Dumpty in his place again . '
` That last line be much too long for the poetry , ' she add , almost out loud , forget that Humpty Dumpty would hear her .
` Do n't stand there chatter to yourself like that , ' Humpty Dumpty say , look at her for the first time , ` but tell me your name and your business . '
` My NAME be Alice , but -- ' ` It 's a stupid enough name ! '
Humpty Dumpty interrupt impatiently .
` What do it mean ? '
` MUST a name mean something ? '
Alice ask doubtfully .
` Of course it must , ' Humpty Dumpty say with a short laugh : ` MY name mean the shape I be -- and a good handsome shape it be , too .
With a name like yours , you might be any shape , almost . '
` Why do you sit out here all alone ? '
say Alice , not wish to begin an argument .
` Why , because there 's nobody with me ! '
cry Humpty Dumpty .
` Did you think I do n't know the answer to THAT ?
Ask another . '
` Do n't you think you 'd be safe down on the ground ? '
Alice go on , not with any idea of make another riddle , but simply in her good-natured anxiety for the queer creature .
` That wall be so VERY narrow ! '
` What tremendously easy riddle you ask ! '
Humpty Dumpty growl out .
` Of course I do n't think so !
Why , if ever I DID fall off -- which there 's no chance of -- but IF I do -- ' Here he purse up his lip and look so solemn and grand that Alice could hardly help laughing .
` IF I do fall , ' he go on , ` THE KING HAS PROMISED ME -- ah , you may turn pale , if you like !
You do n't think I be go to say that , do you ?
THE KING HAS PROMISED ME -- WITH HIS VERY OWN MOUTH -- to -- to -- ' ` To send all his horse and all his men , ' Alice interrupt , rather unwisely .
` Now I declare that 's too bad ! '
Humpty Dumpty cry , break into a sudden passion .
` You 've be listen at door -- and behind tree -- and down chimney -- or you could n't have know it ! ' '
I have n't , indeed ! '
Alice say very gently .
` It 's in a book . '
` Ah , well !
They may write such thing in a BOOK , ' Humpty Dumpty say in a calmer tone .
` That 's what you call a History of England , that be .
Now , take a good look at me !
I 'm one that have speak to a King , I be : mayhap you 'll never see such another : and to show you I 'm not proud , you may shake hand with me ! '
And he grin almost from ear to ear , a he lean forward -LRB- and as nearly a possible fell off the wall in do so -RRB- and offer Alice his hand .
She watch him a little anxiously a she take it .
` If he smile much more , the end of his mouth might meet behind , ' she think : ` and then I do n't know what would happen to his head !
I 'm afraid it would come off ! '
` Yes , all his horse and all his men , ' Humpty Dumpty go on .
` They 'd pick me up again in a minute , THEY would !
However , this conversation be go on a little too fast : let 's go back to the last remark but one . '
` I 'm afraid I ca n't quite remember it , ' Alice say very politely .
` In that case we start fresh , ' say Humpty Dumpty , ` and it 's my turn to choose a subject -- ' -LRB- ` He talk about it just a if it be a game ! '
thought Alice . -RRB-
` So here 's a question for you .
How old do you say you be ? '
Alice make a short calculation , and say ` Seven year and six month . '
` Wrong ! '
Humpty Dumpty exclaim triumphantly .
` You never say a word like it ! ' '
I though you mean `` How old ARE you ? '' '
Alice explain .
` If I 'd mean that , I 'd have say it , ' say Humpty Dumpty .
Alice do n't want to begin another argument , so she say nothing .
` Seven year and six month ! '
Humpty Dumpty repeat thoughtfully .
` An uncomfortable sort of age .
Now if you 'd ask MY advice , I 'd have say `` Leave off at seven '' -- but it 's too late now . ' '
I never ask advice about grow , ' Alice say indignantly .
` Too proud ? '
the other inquired .
Alice felt even more indignant at this suggestion . '
I mean , ' she say , ` that one ca n't help grow old . '
` ONE ca n't , perhaps , ' say Humpty Dumpty , ` but TWO can .
With proper assistance , you might have leave off at seven . '
` What a beautiful belt you 've get on ! '
Alice suddenly remark .
-LRB- They have have quite enough of the subject of age , she think : and if they really be to take turn in choose subject , it be her turn now . -RRB-
` At least , ' she correct herself on second thought , ' a beautiful cravat , I should have say -- no , a belt , I mean -- I beg your pardon ! '
she add in dismay , for Humpty Dumpty look thoroughly offend , and she begin to wish she have n't choose that subject .
` If I only know , ' she think to herself , ` which be neck and which be waist ! '
Evidently Humpty Dumpty be very angry , though he say nothing for a minute or two .
When he DID speak again , it be in a deep growl .
` It be a -- MOST -- PROVOKING -- thing , ' he say at last , ` when a person do n't know a cravat from a belt ! ' '
I know it 's very ignorant of me , ' Alice say , in so humble a tone that Humpty Dumpty relent .
` It 's a cravat , child , and a beautiful one , a you say .
It 's a present from the White King and Queen .
There now ! '
` Is it really ? '
say Alice , quite pleased to find that she HAD choose a good subject , after all .
` They give it me , ' Humpty Dumpty continue thoughtfully , a he cross one knee over the other and clasp his hand round it , ` they give it me -- for an un-birthday present . ' '
I beg your pardon ? '
Alice say with a puzzled air .
` I 'm not offend , ' say Humpty Dumpty . '
I mean , what IS an un-birthday present ? ' '
A present give when it be n't your birthday , of course . '
Alice consider a little . '
I like birthday present best , ' she say at last .
` You do n't know what you 're talk about ! '
cry Humpty Dumpty .
` How many day be there in a year ? '
` Three hundred and sixty-five , ' say Alice .
` And how many birthday have you ? '
` One . '
` And if you take one from three hundred and sixty-five , what remain ? '
` Three hundred and sixty-four , of course . '
Humpty Dumpty look doubtful .
` I 'd rather see that do on paper , ' he say .
Alice could n't help smile a she take out her memorandum-book , and work the sum for him : 365 1 ____ 364 ___ Humpty Dumpty take the book , and look at it carefully .
` That seem to be do right -- ' he begin .
` You 're hold it upside down ! '
Alice interrupt .
` To be sure I be ! '
Humpty Dumpty say gaily , a she turn it round for him . '
I think it look a little queer .
As I be say , that SEEMS to be do right -- though I have n't time to look it over thoroughly just now -- and that show that there be three hundred and sixty-four day when you might get un-birthday present -- ' ` Certainly , ' say Alice .
` And only ONE for birthday present , you know .
There 's glory for you ! ' '
I do n't know what you mean by `` glory , '' ' Alice say .
Humpty Dumpty smile contemptuously .
` Of course you do n't -- till I tell you .
I mean `` there 's a nice knock-down argument for you ! '' '
` But `` glory '' do n't mean `` a nice knock-down argument , '' ' Alice object .
` When I use a word , ' Humpty Dumpty say in rather a scornful tone , ` it mean just what I choose it to mean -- neither more nor less . '
` The question be , ' say Alice , ` whether you CAN make word mean so many different thing . '
` The question be , ' say Humpty Dumpty , ` which be to be master -- that 's all . '
Alice be too much puzzle to say anything , so after a minute Humpty Dumpty begin again .
` They 've a temper , some of them -- particularly verb , they 're the proud -- adjective you can do anything with , but not verb -- however , I can manage the whole lot of them !
Impenetrability !
That 's what I say ! '
` Would you tell me , please , ' say Alice ` what that mean ? '
` Now you talk like a reasonable child , ' say Humpty Dumpty , look very much pleased . '
I mean by `` impenetrability '' that we 've have enough of that subject , and it would be just as well if you 'd mention what you mean to do next , a I suppose you do n't mean to stop here all the rest of your life . '
` That 's a great deal to make one word mean , ' Alice say in a thoughtful tone .
` When I make a word do a lot of work like that , ' say Humpty Dumpty , ' I always pay it extra . '
` Oh ! '
say Alice .
She be too much puzzle to make any other remark .
` Ah , you should see 'em come round me of a Saturday night , ' Humpty Dumpty go on , wag his head gravely from side to side : ` for to get their wage , you know . '
-LRB- Alice do n't venture to ask what he pay them with ; and so you see I ca n't tell YOU . -RRB-
` You seem very clever at explain word , Sir , ' say Alice .
` Would you kindly tell me the meaning of the poem call `` Jabberwocky '' ? '
` Let 's hear it , ' say Humpty Dumpty . '
I can explain all the poem that be ever invent -- and a good many that have n't be invent just yet . '
This sound very hopeful , so Alice repeat the first verse : 'T be brillig , and the slithy toves Did gyre and gimble in the wabe ; All mimsy be the borogoves , And the mome raths outgrabe .
` That 's enough to begin with , ' Humpty Dumpty interrupt : ` there be plenty of hard word there .
`` BRILLIG '' mean four o'clock in the afternoon -- the time when you begin BROILING thing for dinner . '
` That 'll do very well , ' say Alice : ` and `` SLITHY '' ? '
` Well , `` SLITHY '' mean `` lithe and slimy . ''
`` Lithe '' be the same a `` active . ''
You see it 's like a portmanteau -- there be two meaning pack up into one word . ' '
I see it now , ' Alice remark thoughtfully : ` and what be `` TOVES '' ? '
` Well , `` TOVES '' be something like badger -- they 're something like lizard -- and they 're something like corkscrew . '
` They must be very curious look creature . '
` They be that , ' say Humpty Dumpty : ` also they make their nest under sun-dials -- also they live on cheese . '
` And what 's the `` GYRE '' and to `` GIMBLE '' ? '
` To `` GYRE '' be to go round and round like a gyroscope .
To `` GIMBLE '' be to make hole like a gimlet . '
` And `` THE WABE '' be the grass-plot round a sun-dial , I suppose ? '
say Alice , surprise at her own ingenuity .
` Of course it be .
It 's call `` WABE , '' you know , because it go a long way before it , and a long way behind it -- ' ` And a long way beyond it on each side , ' Alice add .
` Exactly so .
Well , then , `` MIMSY '' be `` flimsy and miserable '' -LRB- there 's another portmanteau for you -RRB- .
And a `` BOROGOVE '' be a thin shabby-looking bird with it feather stick out all round -- something like a live mop . '
` And then `` MOME RATHS '' ? '
say Alice .
` I 'm afraid I 'm give you a great deal of trouble . '
` Well , a `` RATH '' be a sort of green pig : but `` MOME '' I 'm not certain about .
I think it 's short for `` from home '' -- mean that they 'd lose their way , you know . '
` And what do `` OUTGRABE '' mean ? '
` Well , `` OUTGRABING '' be something between bellow and whistle , with a kind of sneeze in the middle : however , you 'll hear it do , maybe -- down in the wood yonder -- and when you 've once hear it you 'll be QUITE content .
Who 's be repeat all that hard stuff to you ? ' '
I read it in a book , ' say Alice .
` But I have some poetry repeat to me , much easy than that , by -- Tweedledee , I think it be . '
` As to poetry , you know , ' say Humpty Dumpty , stretch out one of his great hand , ' I can repeat poetry as well a other folk , if it come to that -- ' ` Oh , it need n't come to that ! '
Alice hastily say , hop to keep him from begin .
` The piece I 'm go to repeat , ' he go on without notice her remark , ` be write entirely for your amusement . '
Alice felt that in that case she really OUGHT to listen to it , so she sit down , and say ` Thank you ' rather sadly .
` In winter , when the field be white , I sing this song for your delight -- only I do n't sing it , ' he add , a an explanation . '
I see you do n't , ' say Alice .
` If you can SEE whether I 'm sing or not , you 've sharp eye than most . '
Humpty Dumpty remark severely .
Alice be silent .
` In spring , when wood be get green , I 'll try and tell you what I mean . '
` Thank you very much , ' say Alice .
` In summer , when the day be long , Perhaps you 'll understand the song : In autumn , when the leaf be brown , Take pen and ink , and write it down . ' '
I will , if I can remember it so long , ' say Alice .
` You need n't go on make remark like that , ' Humpty Dumpty say : ` they 're not sensible , and they put me out . ' '
I send a message to the fish : I tell them `` This be what I wish . ''
The little fish of the sea , They send an answer back to me .
The little fish ' answer be `` We can not do it , Sir , because -- '' ' ` I 'm afraid I do n't quite understand , ' say Alice .
` It get easy far on , ' Humpty Dumpty reply . '
I send to them again to say `` It will be good to obey . ''
The fish answer with a grin , `` Why , what a temper you be in ! ''
I tell them once , I tell them twice : They would not listen to advice .
I take a kettle large and new , Fit for the deed I have to do .
My heart go hop , my heart go thump ; I fill the kettle at the pump .
Then some one come to me and say , `` The little fish be in bed . ''
I say to him , I say it plain , `` Then you must wake them up again . ''
I say it very loud and clear ; I go and shout in his ear . '
Humpty Dumpty raise his voice almost to a scream a he repeat this verse , and Alice think with a shudder , ' I would n't have be the messenger for ANYTHING ! '
` But he be very stiff and proud ; He say `` You need n't shout so loud ! ''
And he be very proud and stiff ; He say `` I 'd go and wake them , if -- '' I take a corkscrew from the shelf : I go to wake them up myself .
And when I find the door be lock , I pull and push and kick and knock .
And when I find the door be shut , I try to turn the handle , but -- ' There be a long pause .
` Is that all ? '
Alice timidly ask .
` That 's all , ' say Humpty Dumpty .
` Good-bye . '
This be rather sudden , Alice think : but , after such a VERY strong hint that she ought to be go , she felt that it would hardly be civil to stay .
So she get up , and hold out her hand .
` Good-bye , till we meet again ! '
she say as cheerfully a she could . '
I should n't know you again if we DID meet , ' Humpty Dumpty reply in a discontented tone , give her one of his finger to shake ; ` you 're so exactly like other people . '
` The face be what one go by , generally , ' Alice remark in a thoughtful tone .
` That 's just what I complain of , ' say Humpty Dumpty .
` Your face be the same a everybody have -- the two eye , so -- ' -LRB- mark their place in the air with this thumb -RRB- ` nose in the middle , mouth under .
It 's always the same .
Now if you have the two eye on the same side of the nose , for instance -- or the mouth at the top -- that would be SOME help . '
` It would n't look nice , ' Alice object .
But Humpty Dumpty only shut his eye and say ` Wait till you 've try . '
Alice wait a minute to see if he would speak again , but a he never open his eye or take any further notice of her , she say ` Good-bye ! '
once more , and , get no answer to this , she quietly walk away : but she could n't help say to herself a she go , ` Of all the unsatisfactory -- ' -LRB- she repeat this aloud , a it be a great comfort to have such a long word to say -RRB- ` of all the unsatisfactory people I EVER met -- ' She never finish the sentence , for at this moment a heavy crash shake the forest from end to end .
CHAPTER VII .
The Lion and the Unicorn The next moment soldier come run through the wood , at first in two and three , then ten or twenty together , and at last in such crowd that they seem to fill the whole forest .
Alice get behind a tree , for fear of be run over , and watch them go by .
She think that in all her life she have never see soldier so uncertain on their foot : they be always trip over something or other , and whenever one go down , several more always fell over him , so that the ground be soon cover with little heap of men .
Then come the horse .
Having four foot , these manage rather good than the foot-soldiers : but even THEY stumble now and then ; and it seem to be a regular rule that , whenever a horse stumble the rider fell off instantly .
The confusion get bad every moment , and Alice be very glad to get out of the wood into an open place , where she find the White King seat on the ground , busily write in his memorandum-book .
` I 've send them all ! '
the King cry in a tone of delight , on see Alice .
` Did you happen to meet any soldier , my dear , a you come through the wood ? '
` Yes , I do , ' say Alice : ` several thousand , I should think . '
` Four thousand two hundred and seven , that 's the exact number , ' the King say , refer to his book . '
I could n't send all the horse , you know , because two of them be want in the game .
And I have n't send the two Messengers , either .
They 're both go to the town .
Just look along the road , and tell me if you can see either of them . ' '
I see nobody on the road , ' say Alice . '
I only wish I have such eye , ' the King remark in a fretful tone .
` To be able to see Nobody !
And at that distance , too !
Why , it 's as much a I can do to see real people , by this light ! '
All this be lose on Alice , who be still look intently along the road , shade her eye with one hand . '
I see somebody now ! '
she exclaim at last .
` But he 's come very slowly -- and what curious attitude he go into ! '
-LRB- For the messenger keep skip up and down , and wriggle like an eel , a he come along , with his great hand spread out like fan on each side . -RRB-
` Not at all , ' say the King .
` He 's an Anglo-Saxon Messenger -- and those be Anglo-Saxon attitude .
He only do them when he 's happy .
His name be Haigha . '
-LRB- He pronounce it so a to rhyme with ` mayor . ' -RRB- '
I love my love with an H , ' Alice could n't help begin , ` because he be Happy .
I hate him with an H , because he be Hideous .
I feed him with -- with -- with Ham-sandwiches and Hay .
His name be Haigha , and he live -- ' ` He live on the Hill , ' the King remark simply , without the least idea that he be join in the game , while Alice be still hesitate for the name of a town begin with H. ` The other Messenger 's call Hatta .
I must have TWO , you know -- to come and go .
One to come , and one to go . ' '
I beg your pardon ? '
say Alice .
` It be n't respectable to beg , ' say the King . '
I only mean that I do n't understand , ' say Alice .
` Why one to come and one to go ? '
` Did n't I tell you ? '
the King repeat impatiently . '
I must have Two -- to fetch and carry .
One to fetch , and one to carry . '
At this moment the Messenger arrive : he be far too much out of breath to say a word , and could only wave his hand about , and make the most fearful face at the poor King .
` This young lady love you with an H , ' the King say , introduce Alice in the hope of turn off the Messenger 's attention from himself -- but it be no use -- the Anglo-Saxon attitude only get more extraordinary every moment , while the great eye roll wildly from side to side .
` You alarm me ! '
say the King . '
I feel faint -- Give me a ham sandwich ! '
On which the Messenger , to Alice 's great amusement , open a bag that hang round his neck , and hand a sandwich to the King , who devour it greedily .
` Another sandwich ! '
say the King .
` There 's nothing but hay leave now , ' the Messenger say , peep into the bag .
` Hay , then , ' the King murmur in a faint whisper .
Alice be glad to see that it revive him a good deal .
` There 's nothing like eat hay when you 're faint , ' he remark to her , a he munch away . '
I should think throw cold water over you would be good , ' Alice suggest : ` or some sal-volatile . ' '
I do n't say there be nothing BETTER , ' the King reply . '
I say there be nothing LIKE it . '
Which Alice do not venture to deny .
` Who do you pass on the road ? '
the King go on , hold out his hand to the Messenger for some more hay .
` Nobody , ' say the Messenger .
` Quite right , ' say the King : ` this young lady saw him too .
So of course Nobody walk slow than you . ' '
I do my best , ' the Messenger say in a sulky tone .
` I 'm sure nobody walk much faster than I do ! '
` He ca n't do that , ' say the King , ` or else he 'd have be here first .
However , now you 've get your breath , you may tell u what 's happen in the town . '
` I 'll whisper it , ' say the Messenger , put his hand to his mouth in the shape of a trumpet , and stoop so a to get close to the King 's ear .
Alice be sorry for this , a she want to hear the news too .
However , instead of whispering , he simply shout at the top of his voice ` They 're at it again ! '
` Do you call THAT a whisper ? '
cry the poor King , jump up and shake himself .
` If you do such a thing again , I 'll have you butter !
It go through and through my head like an earthquake ! '
` It would have to be a very tiny earthquake ! '
thought Alice .
` Who be at it again ? '
she venture to ask .
` Why the Lion and the Unicorn , of course , ' say the King .
` Fighting for the crown ? '
` Yes , to be sure , ' say the King : ` and the best of the joke be , that it 's MY crown all the while !
Let 's run and see them . '
And they trot off , Alice repeat to herself , a she run , the word of the old song : -- ` The Lion and the Unicorn be fight for the crown : The Lion beat the Unicorn all round the town .
Some give them white bread , some give them brown ; Some give them plum-cake and drum them out of town . '
` Does -- the one -- that win -- get the crown ? '
she ask , as well a she could , for the run be put her quite out of breath .
` Dear me , no ! '
say the King .
` What an idea ! '
` Would you -- be good enough , ' Alice pant out , after run a little further , ` to stop a minute -- just to get -- one 's breath again ? '
` I 'm GOOD enough , ' the King say , ` only I 'm not strong enough .
You see , a minute go by so fearfully quick .
You might as well try to stop a Bandersnatch ! '
Alice have no more breath for talk , so they trot on in silence , till they come in sight of a great crowd , in the middle of which the Lion and Unicorn be fight .
They be in such a cloud of dust , that at first Alice could not make out which be which : but she soon manage to distinguish the Unicorn by his horn .
They place themselves close to where Hatta , the other messenger , be stand watch the fight , with a cup of tea in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other .
` He 's only just out of prison , and he have n't finish his tea when he be send in , ' Haigha whisper to Alice : ` and they only give them oyster-shells in there -- so you see he 's very hungry and thirsty .
How be you , dear child ? '
he go on , put his arm affectionately round Hatta 's neck .
Hatta look round and nod , and go on with his bread and butter .
` Were you happy in prison , dear child ? '
say Haigha .
Hatta look round once more , and this time a tear or two trickle down his cheek : but not a word would he say .
` Speak , ca n't you ! '
Haigha cry impatiently .
But Hatta only munch away , and drink some more tea .
` Speak , wo n't you ! '
cry the King .
` How be they get on with the fight ? '
Hatta make a desperate effort , and swallow a large piece of bread-and-butter .
` They 're get on very well , ' he say in a choking voice : ` each of them have be down about eighty-seven time . '
` Then I suppose they 'll soon bring the white bread and the brown ? '
Alice venture to remark .
` It 's wait for 'em now , ' say Hatta : ` this be a bit of it a I 'm eat . '
There be a pause in the fight just then , and the Lion and the Unicorn sit down , pant , while the King call out ` Ten minute allow for refreshment ! '
Haigha and Hatta set to work at once , carry rough tray of white and brown bread .
Alice take a piece to taste , but it be VERY dry . '
I do n't think they 'll fight any more to-day , ' the King say to Hatta : ` go and order the drum to begin . '
And Hatta go bound away like a grasshopper .
For a minute or two Alice stand silent , watch him .
Suddenly she brighten up .
` Look , look ! '
she cry , point eagerly .
` There 's the White Queen run across the country !
She come fly out of the wood over yonder -- How fast those Queens CAN run ! '
` There 's some enemy after her , no doubt , ' the King say , without even look round .
` That wood 's full of them . '
` But be n't you go to run and help her ? '
Alice ask , very much surprise at his take it so quietly .
` No use , no use ! '
say the King .
` She run so fearfully quick .
You might as well try to catch a Bandersnatch !
But I 'll make a memorandum about her , if you like -- She 's a dear good creature , ' he repeat softly to himself , a he open his memorandum-book .
` Do you spell `` creature '' with a double `` e '' ? '
At this moment the Unicorn saunter by them , with his hand in his pocket . '
I have the best of it this time ? '
he say to the King , just glance at him a he pass . '
A little -- a little , ' the King reply , rather nervously .
` You should n't have run him through with your horn , you know . '
` It do n't hurt him , ' the Unicorn say carelessly , and he be go on , when his eye happen to fall upon Alice : he turn round rather instantly , and stand for some time look at her with an air of the deep disgust .
` What -- be -- this ? '
he say at last .
` This be a child ! '
Haigha reply eagerly , come in front of Alice to introduce her , and spread out both his hand towards her in an Anglo-Saxon attitude .
` We only find it to-day .
It 's as large a life , and twice a natural ! ' '
I always think they be fabulous monster ! '
say the Unicorn .
` Is it alive ? '
` It can talk , ' say Haigha , solemnly .
The Unicorn look dreamily at Alice , and say ` Talk , child . '
Alice could not help her lip curl up into a smile a she begin : ` Do you know , I always think Unicorns be fabulous monster , too !
I never saw one alive before ! '
` Well , now that we HAVE see each other , ' say the Unicorn , ` if you 'll believe in me , I 'll believe in you .
Is that a bargain ? '
` Yes , if you like , ' say Alice .
` Come , fetch out the plum-cake , old man ! '
the Unicorn go on , turn from her to the King .
` None of your brown bread for me ! '
` Certainly -- certainly ! '
the King mutter , and beckon to Haigha .
` Open the bag ! '
he whisper .
` Quick !
Not that one -- that 's full of hay ! '
Haigha take a large cake out of the bag , and give it to Alice to hold , while he get out a dish and carving-knife .
How they all come out of it Alice could n't guess .
It be just like a conjuring-trick , she think .
The Lion have join them while this be go on : he look very tired and sleepy , and his eye be half shut .
` What 's this ! '
he say , blink lazily at Alice , and speak in a deep hollow tone that sound like the tolling of a great bell .
` Ah , what IS it , now ? '
the Unicorn cry eagerly .
` You 'll never guess !
I could n't . '
The Lion look at Alice wearily .
` Are you animal -- vegetable -- or mineral ? '
he say , yawn at every other word .
` It 's a fabulous monster ! '
the Unicorn cry out , before Alice could reply .
` Then hand round the plum-cake , Monster , ' the Lion say , lie down and put his chin on this paw .
` And sit down , both of you , ' -LRB- to the King and the Unicorn -RRB- : ` fair play with the cake , you know ! '
The King be evidently very uncomfortable at have to sit down between the two great creature ; but there be no other place for him .
` What a fight we might have for the crown , NOW ! '
the Unicorn say , look slyly up at the crown , which the poor King be nearly shake off his head , he tremble so much . '
I should win easy , ' say the Lion .
` I 'm not so sure of that , ' say the Unicorn .
` Why , I beat you all round the town , you chicken ! '
the Lion reply angrily , half get up a he speak .
Here the King interrupt , to prevent the quarrel go on : he be very nervous , and his voice quite quiver .
` All round the town ? '
he say .
` That 's a good long way .
Did you go by the old bridge , or the market-place ?
You get the best view by the old bridge . '
` I 'm sure I do n't know , ' the Lion growl out a he lay down again .
` There be too much dust to see anything .
What a time the Monster be , cut up that cake ! '
Alice have seat herself on the bank of a little brook , with the great dish on her knee , and be saw away diligently with the knife .
` It 's very provoking ! '
she say , in reply to the Lion -LRB- she be get quite use to be call ` the Monster ' -RRB- .
` I 've cut several slice already , but they always join on again ! '
` You do n't know how to manage Looking-glass cake , ' the Unicorn remark .
` Hand it round first , and cut it afterwards . '
This sound nonsense , but Alice very obediently get up , and carry the dish round , and the cake divide itself into three piece a she do so .
` NOW cut it up , ' say the Lion , a she return to her place with the empty dish . '
I say , this be n't fair ! '
cry the Unicorn , a Alice sit with the knife in her hand , very much puzzle how to begin .
` The Monster have give the Lion twice as much a me ! '
` She 's kept none for herself , anyhow , ' say the Lion .
` Do you like plum-cake , Monster ? '
But before Alice could answer him , the drum begin .
Where the noise come from , she could n't make out : the air seem full of it , and it ring through and through her head till she felt quite deafen .
She start to her foot and sprang across the little brook in her terror , * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * and have just time to see the Lion and the Unicorn rise to their foot , with angry look at be interrupt in their feast , before she drop to her knee , and put her hand over her ear , vainly try to shut out the dreadful uproar .
` If THAT do n't `` drum them out of town , '' ' she think to herself , ` nothing ever will ! '
CHAPTER VIII .
` It 's my own Invention ' After a while the noise seem gradually to die away , till all be dead silence , and Alice lift up her head in some alarm .
There be no one to be see , and her first thought be that she must have be dream about the Lion and the Unicorn and those queer Anglo-Saxon Messengers .
However , there be the great dish still lie at her foot , on which she have try to cut the plum-cake , ` So I be n't dream , after all , ' she say to herself , ` unless -- unless we 're all part of the same dream .
Only I do hope it 's MY dream , and not the Red King 's !
I do n't like belong to another person 's dream , ' she go on in a rather complain tone : ` I 've a great mind to go and wake him , and see what happen ! '
At this moment her thought be interrupt by a loud shouting of ` Ahoy !
Ahoy !
Check ! '
and a Knight dress in crimson armour come gallop down upon her , brandish a great club .
Just a he reach her , the horse stop suddenly : ` You 're my prisoner ! '
the Knight cry , a he tumble off his horse .
Startled a she be , Alice be more frightened for him than for herself at the moment , and watch him with some anxiety a he mount again .
As soon a he be comfortably in the saddle , he begin once more ` You 're my -- ' but here another voice break in ` Ahoy !
Ahoy !
Check ! '
and Alice look round in some surprise for the new enemy .
This time it be a White Knight .
He draw up at Alice 's side , and tumble off his horse just a the Red Knight have do : then he get on again , and the two Knights sit and look at each other for some time without speaking .
Alice look from one to the other in some bewilderment .
` She 's MY prisoner , you know ! '
the Red Knight say at last .
` Yes , but then I come and rescue her ! '
the White Knight reply .
` Well , we must fight for her , then , ' say the Red Knight , a he take up his helmet -LRB- which hung from the saddle , and be something the shape of a horse 's head -RRB- , and put it on .
` You will observe the Rules of Battle , of course ? '
the White Knight remark , put on his helmet too . '
I always do , ' say the Red Knight , and they begin bang away at each other with such fury that Alice get behind a tree to be out of the way of the blow . '
I wonder , now , what the Rules of Battle be , ' she say to herself , a she watch the fight , timidly peep out from her hiding-place : ` one Rule seem to be , that if one Knight hit the other , he knock him off his horse , and if he miss , he tumble off himself -- and another Rule seem to be that they hold their club with their arm , a if they be Punch and Judy -- What a noise they make when they tumble !
Just like a whole set of fire-irons fall into the fender !
And how quiet the horse be !
They let them get on and off them just a if they be table ! '
Another Rule of Battle , that Alice have not notice , seem to be that they always fell on their head , and the battle end with their both fall off in this way , side by side : when they get up again , they shake hand , and then the Red Knight mount and gallop off .
` It be a glorious victory , be n't it ? '
say the White Knight , a he come up pant . '
I do n't know , ' Alice say doubtfully . '
I do n't want to be anybody 's prisoner .
I want to be a Queen . '
` So you will , when you 've cross the next brook , ' say the White Knight .
` I 'll see you safe to the end of the wood -- and then I must go back , you know .
That 's the end of my move . '
` Thank you very much , ' say Alice .
` May I help you off with your helmet ? '
It be evidently more than he could manage by himself ; however , she manage to shake him out of it at last .
` Now one can breathe more easily , ' say the Knight , put back his shaggy hair with both hand , and turn his gentle face and large mild eye to Alice .
She think she have never see such a strange-looking soldier in all her life .
He be dress in tin armour , which seem to fit him very badly , and he have a queer-shaped little deal box fasten across his shoulder , upside-down , and with the lid hanging open .
Alice look at it with great curiosity . '
I see you 're admire my little box . '
the Knight say in a friendly tone .
` It 's my own invention -- to keep clothes and sandwich in .
You see I carry it upside-down , so that the rain ca n't get in . '
` But the thing can get OUT , ' Alice gently remark .
` Do you know the lid 's open ? ' '
I do n't know it , ' the Knight say , a shade of vexation passing over his face .
` Then all the thing must have fall out !
And the box be no use without them . '
He unfasten it a he speak , and be just go to throw it into the bush , when a sudden thought seem to strike him , and he hang it carefully on a tree .
` Can you guess why I do that ? '
he say to Alice .
Alice shake her head .
` In hope some bee may make a nest in it -- then I should get the honey . '
` But you 've get a bee-hive -- or something like one -- fasten to the saddle , ' say Alice .
` Yes , it 's a very good bee-hive , ' the Knight say in a discontented tone , ` one of the best kind .
But not a single bee have come near it yet .
And the other thing be a mouse-trap .
I suppose the mouse keep the bee out -- or the bee keep the mouse out , I do n't know which . ' '
I be wonder what the mouse-trap be for , ' say Alice .
` It be n't very likely there would be any mouse on the horse 's back . '
` Not very likely , perhaps , ' say the Knight : ` but if they DO come , I do n't choose to have them run all about . '
` You see , ' he go on after a pause , ` it 's as well to be provide for EVERYTHING .
That 's the reason the horse have all those anklet round his foot . '
` But what be they for ? '
Alice ask in a tone of great curiosity .
` To guard against the bite of shark , ' the Knight reply .
` It 's an invention of my own .
And now help me on .
I 'll go with you to the end of the wood -- What 's the dish for ? '
` It 's mean for plum-cake , ' say Alice .
` We 'd well take it with u , ' the Knight say .
` It 'll come in handy if we find any plum-cake .
Help me to get it into this bag . '
This take a very long time to manage , though Alice hold the bag open very carefully , because the Knight be so VERY awkward in put in the dish : the first two or three time that he try he fell in himself instead .
` It 's rather a tight fit , you see , ' he say , a they get it in a last ; ` There be so many candlestick in the bag . '
And he hang it to the saddle , which be already load with bunch of carrot , and fire-irons , and many other thing . '
I hope you 've get your hair well fasten on ? '
he continue , a they set off .
` Only in the usual way , ' Alice say , smile .
` That 's hardly enough , ' he say , anxiously .
` You see the wind be so VERY strong here .
It 's as strong a soup . '
` Have you invent a plan for keep the hair from be blow off ? '
Alice enquire .
` Not yet , ' say the Knight .
` But I 've get a plan for keep it from FALLING off . ' '
I should like to hear it , very much . '
` First you take an upright stick , ' say the Knight .
` Then you make your hair creep up it , like a fruit-tree .
Now the reason hair fall off be because it hang DOWN -- thing never fall UPWARDS , you know .
It 's a plan of my own invention .
You may try it if you like . '
It do n't sound a comfortable plan , Alice think , and for a few minute she walk on in silence , puzzle over the idea , and every now and then stop to help the poor Knight , who certainly be NOT a good rider .
Whenever the horse stop -LRB- which it do very often -RRB- , he fell off in front ; and whenever it go on again -LRB- which it generally do rather suddenly -RRB- , he fell off behind .
Otherwise he keep on pretty well , except that he have a habit of now and then fall off sideways ; and a he generally do this on the side on which Alice be walk , she soon find that it be the best plan not to walk QUITE close to the horse .
` I 'm afraid you 've not have much practice in rid , ' she venture to say , a she be help him up from his fifth tumble .
The Knight look very much surprise , and a little offend at the remark .
` What make you say that ? '
he ask , a he scramble back into the saddle , keep hold of Alice 's hair with one hand , to save himself from fall over on the other side .
` Because people do n't fall off quite so often , when they 've have much practice . '
` I 've have plenty of practice , ' the Knight say very gravely : ` plenty of practice ! '
Alice could think of nothing better to say than ` Indeed ? '
but she say it as heartily a she could .
They go on a little way in silence after this , the Knight with his eye shut , mutter to himself , and Alice watch anxiously for the next tumble .
` The great art of rid , ' the Knight suddenly begin in a loud voice , wave his right arm a he speak , ` be to keep -- ' Here the sentence end as suddenly a it have begin , a the Knight fell heavily on the top of his head exactly in the path where Alice be walk .
She be quite frighten this time , and say in an anxious tone , a she pick him up , ' I hope no bone be break ? '
` None to speak of , ' the Knight say , a if he do n't mind break two or three of them .
` The great art of riding , a I be say , be -- to keep your balance properly .
Like this , you know -- ' He let go the bridle , and stretch out both his arm to show Alice what he mean , and this time he fell flat on his back , right under the horse 's foot .
` Plenty of practice ! '
he go on repeating , all the time that Alice be get him on his foot again .
` Plenty of practice ! '
` It 's too ridiculous ! '
cried Alice , lose all her patience this time .
` You ought to have a wooden horse on wheel , that you ought ! '
` Does that kind go smoothly ? '
the Knight ask in a tone of great interest , clasp his arm round the horse 's neck a he speak , just in time to save himself from tumble off again .
` Much more smoothly than a live horse , ' Alice say , with a little scream of laughter , in spite of all she could do to prevent it .
` I 'll get one , ' the Knight say thoughtfully to himself .
` One or two -- several . '
There be a short silence after this , and then the Knight go on again .
` I 'm a great hand at invent thing .
Now , I daresay you notice , that last time you pick me up , that I be look rather thoughtful ? '
` You WERE a little grave , ' say Alice .
` Well , just then I be invent a new way of get over a gate -- would you like to hear it ? '
` Very much indeed , ' Alice say politely .
` I 'll tell you how I come to think of it , ' say the Knight .
` You see , I say to myself , `` The only difficulty be with the foot : the HEAD be high enough already . ''
Now , first I put my head on the top of the gate -- then I stand on my head -- then the foot be high enough , you see -- then I 'm over , you see . '
` Yes , I suppose you 'd be over when that be do , ' Alice say thoughtfully : ` but do n't you think it would be rather hard ? ' '
I have n't try it yet , ' the Knight say , gravely : ` so I ca n't tell for certain -- but I 'm afraid it WOULD be a little hard . '
He look so vexed at the idea , that Alice change the subject hastily .
` What a curious helmet you 've get ! '
she say cheerfully .
` Is that your invention too ? '
The Knight look down proudly at his helmet , which hang from the saddle .
` Yes , ' he say , ` but I 've invent a good one than that -- like a sugar loaf .
When I use to wear it , if I fell off the horse , it always touch the ground directly .
So I have a VERY little way to fall , you see -- But there WAS the danger of fall INTO it , to be sure .
That happen to me once -- and the bad of it be , before I could get out again , the other White Knight come and put it on .
He think it be his own helmet . '
The knight look so solemn about it that Alice do not dare to laugh .
` I 'm afraid you must have hurt him , ' she say in a trembling voice , ` be on the top of his head . ' '
I have to kick him , of course , ' the Knight say , very seriously .
` And then he take the helmet off again -- but it take hour and hour to get me out .
I be as fast as -- a lightning , you know . '
` But that 's a different kind of fastness , ' Alice object .
The Knight shake his head .
` It be all kind of fastness with me , I can assure you ! '
he say .
He raise his hand in some excitement a he say this , and instantly roll out of the saddle , and fell headlong into a deep ditch .
Alice run to the side of the ditch to look for him .
She be rather startle by the fall , a for some time he have keep on very well , and she be afraid that he really WAS hurt this time .
However , though she could see nothing but the sol of his foot , she be much relieve to hear that he be talk on in his usual tone .
` All kind of fastness , ' he repeat : ` but it be careless of him to put another man 's helmet on -- with the man in it , too . '
` How CAN you go on talk so quietly , head downwards ? '
Alice ask , a she drag him out by the foot , and lay him in a heap on the bank .
The Knight look surprise at the question .
` What do it matter where my body happen to be ? '
he say .
` My mind go on work all the same .
In fact , the more head downwards I be , the more I keep invent new thing . '
` Now the clever thing of the sort that I ever do , ' he go on after a pause , ` be invent a new pudding during the meat-course . '
` In time to have it cook for the next course ? '
say Alice .
` Well , not the NEXT course , ' the Knight say in a slow thoughtful tone : ` no , certainly not the next COURSE . '
` Then it would have to be the next day .
I suppose you would n't have two pudding-courses in one dinner ? '
` Well , not the NEXT day , ' the Knight repeat a before : ` not the next DAY .
In fact , ' he go on , hold his head down , and his voice get low and low , ' I do n't believe that pudding ever WAS cook !
In fact , I do n't believe that pudding ever WILL be cook !
And yet it be a very clever pudding to invent . '
` What do you mean it to be make of ? '
Alice ask , hop to cheer him up , for the poor Knight seem quite low-spirited about it .
` It begin with blot paper , ' the Knight answer with a groan .
` That would n't be very nice , I 'm afraid -- ' ` Not very nice ALONE , ' he interrupt , quite eagerly : ` but you 've no idea what a difference it make mix it with other thing -- such a gunpowder and sealing-wax .
And here I must leave you . '
They have just come to the end of the wood .
Alice could only look puzzle : she be think of the pudding .
` You be sad , ' the Knight say in an anxious tone : ` let me sing you a song to comfort you . '
` Is it very long ? '
Alice ask , for she have hear a good deal of poetry that day .
` It 's long , ' say the Knight , ` but very , VERY beautiful .
Everybody that hear me sing it -- either it bring the TEARS into their eye , or else -- ' ` Or else what ? '
say Alice , for the Knight have make a sudden pause .
` Or else it do n't , you know .
The name of the song be call `` HADDOCKS ' EYES . '' '
` Oh , that 's the name of the song , be it ? '
Alice say , try to feel interested .
` No , you do n't understand , ' the Knight say , look a little vexed .
` That 's what the name be CALLED .
The name really IS `` THE AGED AGED MAN . '' '
` Then I ought to have say `` That 's what the SONG be call '' ? '
Alice correct herself .
` No , you ought n't : that 's quite another thing !
The SONG be call `` WAYS AND MEANS '' : but that 's only what it 's CALLED , you know ! '
` Well , what IS the song , then ? '
say Alice , who be by this time completely bewilder . '
I be come to that , ' the Knight say .
` The song really IS `` A-SITTING ON A GATE '' : and the tune 's my own invention . '
So say , he stop his horse and let the rein fall on it neck : then , slowly beating time with one hand , and with a faint smile light up his gentle foolish face , a if he enjoy the music of his song , he begin .
Of all the strange thing that Alice saw in her journey Through The Looking-Glass , this be the one that she always remember most clearly .
Years afterwards she could bring the whole scene back again , a if it have be only yesterday -- the mild blue eye and kindly smile of the Knight -- the setting sun gleam through his hair , and shin on his armour in a blaze of light that quite dazzle her -- the horse quietly move about , with the rein hang loose on his neck , crop the grass at her foot -- and the black shadow of the forest behind -- all this she take in like a picture , a , with one hand shade her eye , she lean against a tree , watch the strange pair , and listening , in a half dream , to the melancholy music of the song .
` But the tune IS N'T his own invention , ' she say to herself : ` it 's `` I GIVE THEE ALL , I CAN NO MORE . '' '
She stand and listen very attentively , but no tear come into her eye .
` I 'll tell thee everything I can ; There 's little to relate .
I saw an age aged man , A-sitting on a gate .
`` Who be you , age man ? ''
I say , `` and how be it you live ? ''
And his answer trickle through my head Like water through a sieve .
He say `` I look for butterfly That sleep among the wheat : I make them into mutton-pies , And sell them in the street .
I sell them unto men , '' he say , `` Who sail on stormy sea ; And that 's the way I get my bread -- A trifle , if you please . ''
But I be think of a plan To dye one 's whisker green , And always use so large a fan That they could not be see .
So , have no reply to give To what the old man say , I cry , `` Come , tell me how you live ! ''
And thump him on the head .
His accent mild take up the tale : He say `` I go my way , And when I find a mountain-rill , I set it in a blaze ; And thence they make a stuff they call Rolands ' Macassar Oil -- Yet twopence-halfpenny be all They give me for my toil . ''
But I be think of a way To fee oneself on batter , And so go on from day to day Getting a little fatter .
I shake him well from side to side , Until his face be blue : `` Come , tell me how you live , '' I cry , `` And what it be you do ! ''
He say `` I hunt for haddock ' eye Among the heather bright , And work them into waistcoat-buttons In the silent night .
And these I do not sell for gold Or coin of silvery shine But for a copper halfpenny , And that will purchase nine .
`` I sometimes dig for buttered roll , Or set lime twig for crab ; I sometimes search the grassy knoll For wheel of Hansom-cabs .
And that 's the way '' -LRB- he give a wink -RRB- `` By which I get my wealth -- And very gladly will I drink Your Honour 's noble health . ''
I hear him then , for I have just Completed my design To keep the Menai bridge from rust By boil it in wine .
I thank him much for tell me The way he get his wealth , But chiefly for his wish that he Might drink my noble health .
And now , if e'er by chance I put My finger into glue Or madly squeeze a right-hand foot Into a left-hand shoe , Or if I drop upon my toe A very heavy weight , I weep , for it remind me so , Of that old man I use to know -- Whose look be mild , whose speech be slow , Whose hair be white than the snow , Whose face be very like a crow , With eye , like cinder , all aglow , Who seem distract with his woe , Who rock his body to and fro , And mutter mumblingly and low , As if his mouth be full of dough , Who snort like a buffalo -- That summer evening , long ago , A-sitting on a gate . '
As the Knight sing the last word of the ballad , he gather up the rein , and turn his horse 's head along the road by which they have come .
` You 've only a few yard to go , ' he say , ` down the hill and over that little brook , and then you 'll be a Queen -- But you 'll stay and see me off first ? '
he add a Alice turn with an eager look in the direction to which he point . '
I sha n't be long .
You 'll wait and wave your handkerchief when I get to that turn in the road ?
I think it 'll encourage me , you see . '
` Of course I 'll wait , ' say Alice : ` and thank you very much for come so far -- and for the song -- I like it very much . ' '
I hope so , ' the Knight say doubtfully : ` but you do n't cry so much a I think you would . '
So they shake hand , and then the Knight rode slowly away into the forest .
` It wo n't take long to see him OFF , I expect , ' Alice say to herself , a she stand watch him .
` There he go !
Right on his head a usual !
However , he get on again pretty easily -- that come of have so many thing hang round the horse -- ' So she go on talk to herself , a she watch the horse walk leisurely along the road , and the Knight tumble off , first on one side and then on the other .
After the fourth or fifth tumble he reach the turn , and then she wave her handkerchief to him , and wait till he be out of sight . '
I hope it encourage him , ' she say , a she turn to run down the hill : ` and now for the last brook , and to be a Queen !
How grand it sound ! '
A very few step bring her to the edge of the brook .
` The Eighth Square at last ! '
she cry a she bound across , * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * and throw herself down to rest on a lawn as soft a moss , with little flower-beds dot about it here and there .
` Oh , how glad I be to get here !
And what IS this on my head ? '
she exclaim in a tone of dismay , a she put her hand up to something very heavy , and fit tight all round her head .
` But how CAN it have get there without my know it ? '
she say to herself , a she lift it off , and set it on her lap to make out what it could possibly be .
It be a golden crown .
CHAPTER IX .
Queen Alice ` Well , this IS grand ! '
say Alice . '
I never expect I should be a Queen so soon -- and I 'll tell you what it be , your majesty , ' she go on in a severe tone -LRB- she be always rather fond of scold herself -RRB- , ` it 'll never do for you to be loll about on the grass like that !
Queens have to be dignify , you know ! '
So she get up and walk about -- rather stiffly just at first , a she be afraid that the crown might come off : but she comfort herself with the thought that there be nobody to see her , ` and if I really be a Queen , ' she say a she sit down again , ' I shall be able to manage it quite well in time . '
Everything be happen so oddly that she do n't feel a bit surprised at find the Red Queen and the White Queen sit close to her , one on each side : she would have like very much to ask them how they come there , but she fear it would not be quite civil .
However , there would be no harm , she think , in ask if the game be over .
` Please , would you tell me -- ' she begin , look timidly at the Red Queen .
` Speak when you 're speak to ! '
The Queen sharply interrupt her .
` But if everybody obey that rule , ' say Alice , who be always ready for a little argument , ` and if you only speak when you be speak to , and the other person always wait for YOU to begin , you see nobody would ever say anything , so that -- ' ` Ridiculous ! '
cry the Queen .
` Why , do n't you see , child -- ' here she break off with a frown , and , after think for a minute , suddenly change the subject of the conversation .
` What do you mean by `` If you really be a Queen '' ?
What right have you to call yourself so ?
You ca n't be a Queen , you know , till you 've pass the proper examination .
And the sooner we begin it , the good . ' '
I only say `` if '' ! '
poor Alice plead in a piteous tone .
The two Queens look at each other , and the Red Queen remark , with a little shudder , ` She SAYS she only say `` if '' -- ' ` But she say a great deal more than that ! '
the White Queen moan , wring her hand .
` Oh , ever so much more than that ! '
` So you do , you know , ' the Red Queen say to Alice .
` Always speak the truth -- think before you speak -- and write it down afterwards . '
` I 'm sure I do n't mean -- ' Alice be begin , but the Red Queen interrupt her impatiently .
` That 's just what I complain of !
You SHOULD have meant !
What do you suppose be the use of child without any meaning ?
Even a joke should have some meaning -- and a child 's more important than a joke , I hope .
You could n't deny that , even if you try with both hand . ' '
I do n't deny thing with my HANDS , ' Alice object .
` Nobody say you do , ' say the Red Queen . '
I say you could n't if you try . '
` She 's in that state of mind , ' say the White Queen , ` that she want to deny SOMETHING -- only she do n't know what to deny ! ' '
A nasty , vicious temper , ' the Red Queen remark ; and then there be an uncomfortable silence for a minute or two .
The Red Queen break the silence by say to the White Queen , ' I invite you to Alice 's dinner-party this afternoon . '
The White Queen smile feebly , and say ` And I invite YOU . ' '
I do n't know I be to have a party at all , ' say Alice ; ` but if there be to be one , I think I ought to invite the guest . '
` We give you the opportunity of do it , ' the Red Queen remark : ` but I daresay you 've not have many lesson in manner yet ? '
` Manners be not teach in lesson , ' say Alice .
` Lessons teach you to do sum , and thing of that sort . '
` And you do Addition ? '
the White Queen ask .
` What 's one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one ? ' '
I do n't know , ' say Alice . '
I lose count . '
` She ca n't do Addition , ' the Red Queen interrupt .
` Can you do Subtraction ?
Take nine from eight . '
` Nine from eight I ca n't , you know , ' Alice reply very readily : ` but -- ' ` She ca n't do Subtraction , ' say the White Queen .
` Can you do Division ?
Divide a loaf by a knife -- what 's the answer to that ? ' '
I suppose -- ' Alice be begin , but the Red Queen answer for her .
` Bread-and-butter , of course .
Try another Subtraction sum .
Take a bone from a dog : what remain ? '
Alice consider .
` The bone would n't remain , of course , if I take it -- and the dog would n't remain ; it would come to bite me -- and I 'm sure I should n't remain ! '
` Then you think nothing would remain ? '
say the Red Queen . '
I think that 's the answer . '
` Wrong , a usual , ' say the Red Queen : ` the dog 's temper would remain . '
` But I do n't see how -- ' ` Why , look here ! '
the Red Queen cry .
` The dog would lose it temper , would n't it ? '
` Perhaps it would , ' Alice reply cautiously .
` Then if the dog go away , it temper would remain ! '
the Queen exclaim triumphantly .
Alice say , as gravely a she could , ` They might go different way . '
But she could n't help think to herself , ` What dreadful nonsense we ARE talk ! '
` She ca n't do sum a BIT ! '
the Queens say together , with great emphasis .
` Can YOU do sum ? '
Alice say , turn suddenly on the White Queen , for she do n't like be find fault with so much .
The Queen gasp and shut her eye . '
I can do Addition , if you give me time -- but I ca n't do Subtraction , under ANY circumstance ! '
` Of course you know your A B C ? '
say the Red Queen .
` To be sure I do . '
say Alice .
` So do I , ' the White Queen whisper : ` we 'll often say it over together , dear .
And I 'll tell you a secret -- I can read word of one letter !
Is n't THAT grand !
However , do n't be discourage .
You 'll come to it in time . '
Here the Red Queen begin again .
` Can you answer useful question ? '
she say .
` How be bread make ? ' '
I know THAT ! '
Alice cry eagerly .
` You take some flour -- ' ` Where do you pick the flower ? '
the White Queen ask .
` In a garden , or in the hedge ? '
` Well , it be n't PICKED at all , ' Alice explain : ` it 's GROUND -- ' ` How many acre of ground ? '
say the White Queen .
` You must n't leave out so many thing . '
` Fan her head ! '
the Red Queen anxiously interrupt .
` She 'll be feverish after so much thinking . '
So they set to work and fan her with bunch of leaf , till she have to beg them to leave off , it blow her hair about so .
` She 's all right again now , ' say the Red Queen .
` Do you know Languages ?
What 's the French for fiddle-de-dee ? '
` Fiddle-de-dee 's not English , ' Alice reply gravely .
` Who ever say it be ? '
say the Red Queen .
Alice think she saw a way out of the difficulty this time .
` If you 'll tell me what language `` fiddle-de-dee '' be , I 'll tell you the French for it ! '
she exclaim triumphantly .
But the Red Queen draw herself up rather stiffly , and say ` Queens never make bargain . ' '
I wish Queens never ask question , ' Alice think to herself .
` Do n't let u quarrel , ' the White Queen say in an anxious tone .
` What be the cause of lightning ? '
` The cause of lightning , ' Alice say very decidedly , for she felt quite certain about this , ` be the thunder -- no , no ! '
she hastily correct herself . '
I mean the other way . '
` It 's too late to correct it , ' say the Red Queen : ` when you 've once say a thing , that fix it , and you must take the consequence . '
` Which remind me -- ' the White Queen say , look down and nervously clasp and unclasp her hand , ` we have SUCH a thunderstorm last Tuesday -- I mean one of the last set of Tuesdays , you know . '
Alice be puzzle .
` In OUR country , ' she remark , ` there 's only one day at a time . '
The Red Queen say , ` That 's a poor thin way of do thing .
Now HERE , we mostly have day and night two or three at a time , and sometimes in the winter we take as many a five night together -- for warmth , you know . '
` Are five night warm than one night , then ? '
Alice venture to ask .
` Five time a warm , of course . '
` But they should be five time a COLD , by the same rule -- ' ` Just so ! '
cry the Red Queen .
` Five time a warm , AND five time a cold -- just a I 'm five time as rich a you be , AND five time a clever ! '
Alice sigh and give it up .
` It 's exactly like a riddle with no answer ! '
she think .
` Humpty Dumpty saw it too , ' the White Queen go on in a low voice , more a if she be talk to herself .
` He come to the door with a corkscrew in his hand -- ' ` What do he want ? '
say the Red Queen .
` He say he WOULD come in , ' the White Queen go on , ` because he be look for a hippopotamus .
Now , a it happen , there be n't such a thing in the house , that morning . '
` Is there generally ? '
Alice ask in an astonished tone .
` Well , only on Thursdays , ' say the Queen . '
I know what he come for , ' say Alice : ` he want to punish the fish , because -- ' Here the White Queen begin again .
` It be SUCH a thunderstorm , you ca n't think ! '
-LRB- ` She NEVER could , you know , ' say the Red Queen . -RRB-
` And part of the roof come off , and ever so much thunder get in -- and it go roll round the room in great lump -- and knocking over the table and thing -- till I be so frightened , I could n't remember my own name ! '
Alice think to herself , ' I never should TRY to remember my name in the middle of an accident !
Where would be the use of it ? '
but she do not say this aloud , for fear of hurt the poor Queen 's feeling .
` Your Majesty must excuse her , ' the Red Queen say to Alice , take one of the White Queen 's hand in her own , and gently stroke it : ` she mean well , but she ca n't help say foolish thing , a a general rule . '
The White Queen look timidly at Alice , who felt she OUGHT to say something kind , but really could n't think of anything at the moment .
` She never be really well bring up , ' the Red Queen go on : ` but it 's amazing how good-tempered she be !
Pat her on the head , and see how pleased she 'll be ! '
But this be more than Alice have courage to do . '
A little kindness -- and put her hair in paper -- would do wonder with her -- ' The White Queen give a deep sigh , and lay her head on Alice 's shoulder . '
I AM so sleepy ? '
she moan .
` She 's tired , poor thing ! '
say the Red Queen .
` Smooth her hair -- lend her your nightcap -- and sing her a soothing lullaby . ' '
I have n't get a nightcap with me , ' say Alice , a she try to obey the first direction : ` and I do n't know any soothing lullaby . ' '
I must do it myself , then , ' say the Red Queen , and she begin : ` Hush-a-by lady , in Alice 's lap !
Till the feast 's ready , we 've time for a nap : When the feast 's over , we 'll go to the ball -- Red Queen , and White Queen , and Alice , and all !
` And now you know the word , ' she add , a she put her head down on Alice 's other shoulder , ` just sing it through to ME .
I 'm get sleepy , too . '
In another moment both Queens be fast asleep , and snore loud .
` What AM I to do ? '
exclaimed Alice , look about in great perplexity , a first one round head , and then the other , roll down from her shoulder , and lay like a heavy lump in her lap . '
I do n't think it EVER happen before , that any one have to take care of two Queens asleep at once !
No , not in all the History of England -- it could n't , you know , because there never be more than one Queen at a time .
Do wake up , you heavy thing ! '
she go on in an impatient tone ; but there be no answer but a gentle snoring .
The snore get more distinct every minute , and sound more like a tune : at last she could even make out the word , and she listen so eagerly that , when the two great head vanish from her lap , she hardly miss them .
She be stand before an arched doorway over which be the word QUEEN ALICE in large letter , and on each side of the arch there be a bell-handle ; one be mark ` Visitors ' Bell , ' and the other ` Servants ' Bell . '
` I 'll wait till the song 's over , ' thought Alice , ` and then I 'll ring -- the -- WHICH bell must I ring ? '
she go on , very much puzzle by the name .
` I 'm not a visitor , and I 'm not a servant .
There OUGHT to be one mark `` Queen , '' you know -- ' Just then the door open a little way , and a creature with a long beak put it head out for a moment and say ` No admittance till the week after next ! '
and shut the door again with a bang .
Alice knock and rang in vain for a long time , but at last , a very old Frog , who be sit under a tree , get up and hobble slowly towards her : he be dress in bright yellow , and have enormous boot on .
` What be it , now ? '
the Frog say in a deep hoarse whisper .
Alice turn round , ready to find fault with anybody .
` Where 's the servant whose business it be to answer the door ? '
she begin angrily .
` Which door ? '
say the Frog .
Alice almost stamp with irritation at the slow drawl in which he speak .
` THIS door , of course ! '
The Frog look at the door with his large dull eye for a minute : then he go nearer and rub it with his thumb , a if he be try whether the paint would come off ; then he look at Alice .
` To answer the door ? '
he say .
` What 's it be ask of ? '
He be so hoarse that Alice could scarcely hear him . '
I do n't know what you mean , ' she say . '
I talk English , do n't I ? '
the Frog go on .
` Or be you deaf ?
What do it ask you ? '
` Nothing ! '
Alice say impatiently .
` I 've be knock at it ! '
` Should n't do that -- should n't do that -- ' the Frog mutter .
` Vexes it , you know . '
Then he go up and give the door a kick with one of his great foot .
` You let IT alone , ' he pant out , a he hobble back to his tree , ` and it 'll let YOU alone , you know . '
At this moment the door be flung open , and a shrill voice be hear singing : ` To the Looking-Glass world it be Alice that say , `` I 've a sceptre in hand , I 've a crown on my head ; Let the Looking-Glass creature , whatever they be , Come and dine with the Red Queen , the White Queen , and me . '' '
And hundred of voice join in the chorus : ` Then fill up the glass as quick a you can , And sprinkle the table with button and bran : Put cat in the coffee , and mouse in the tea -- And welcome Queen Alice with thirty-times-three ! '
Then follow a confused noise of cheering , and Alice think to herself , ` Thirty time three make ninety .
I wonder if any one 's counting ? '
In a minute there be silence again , and the same shrill voice sing another verse ; ' `` O Looking-Glass creature , '' quoth Alice , `` draw near !
'T be an honour to see me , a favour to hear : 'T be a privilege high to have dinner and tea Along with the Red Queen , the White Queen , and me ! '' '
Then come the chorus again : -- ` Then fill up the glass with treacle and ink , Or anything else that be pleasant to drink : Mix sand with the cider , and wool with the wine -- And welcome Queen Alice with ninety-times-nine ! '
` Ninety time nine ! '
Alice repeat in despair , ` Oh , that 'll never be do !
I 'd better go in at once -- ' and there be a dead silence the moment she appear .
Alice glance nervously along the table , a she walk up the large hall , and notice that there be about fifty guest , of all kind : some be animal , some bird , and there be even a few flower among them .
` I 'm glad they 've come without wait to be ask , ' she think : ' I should never have know who be the right people to invite ! '
There be three chair at the head of the table ; the Red and White Queens have already take two of them , but the middle one be empty .
Alice sit down in it , rather uncomfortable in the silence , and long for some one to speak .
At last the Red Queen begin .
` You 've miss the soup and fish , ' she say .
` Put on the joint ! '
And the waiter set a leg of mutton before Alice , who look at it rather anxiously , a she have never have to carve a joint before .
` You look a little shy ; let me introduce you to that leg of mutton , ' say the Red Queen .
` Alice -- Mutton ; Mutton -- Alice . '
The leg of mutton get up in the dish and make a little bow to Alice ; and Alice return the bow , not know whether to be frighten or amuse .
` May I give you a slice ? '
she say , take up the knife and fork , and look from one Queen to the other .
` Certainly not , ' the Red Queen say , very decidedly : ` it be n't etiquette to cut any one you 've be introduce to .
Remove the joint ! '
And the waiter carry it off , and bring a large plum-pudding in it place . '
I wo n't be introduce to the pudding , please , ' Alice say rather hastily , ` or we shall get no dinner at all .
May I give you some ? '
But the Red Queen look sulky , and growl ` Pudding -- Alice ; Alice -- Pudding .
Remove the pudding ! '
and the waiter take it away so quickly that Alice could n't return it bow .
However , she do n't see why the Red Queen should be the only one to give order , so , a an experiment , she call out ` Waiter !
Bring back the pudding ! '
and there it be again in a moment like a conjuring-trick .
It be so large that she could n't help feel a LITTLE shy with it , a she have be with the mutton ; however , she conquer her shyness by a great effort and cut a slice and hand it to the Red Queen .
` What impertinence ! '
say the Pudding . '
I wonder how you 'd like it , if I be to cut a slice out of YOU , you creature ! '
It speak in a thick , suety sort of voice , and Alice have n't a word to say in reply : she could only sit and look at it and gasp .
` Make a remark , ' say the Red Queen : ` it 's ridiculous to leave all the conversation to the pudding ! '
` Do you know , I 've have such a quantity of poetry repeat to me to-day , ' Alice begin , a little frightened at find that , the moment she open her lip , there be dead silence , and all eye be fix upon her ; ` and it 's a very curious thing , I think -- every poem be about fish in some way .
Do you know why they 're so fond of fish , all about here ? '
She speak to the Red Queen , whose answer be a little wide of the mark .
` As to fish , ' she say , very slowly and solemnly , put her mouth close to Alice 's ear , ` her White Majesty know a lovely riddle -- all in poetry -- all about fish .
Shall she repeat it ? '
` Her Red Majesty 's very kind to mention it , ' the White Queen murmur into Alice 's other ear , in a voice like the cooing of a pigeon .
` It would be SUCH a treat !
May I ? '
` Please do , ' Alice say very politely .
The White Queen laugh with delight , and stroke Alice 's cheek .
Then she begin : ' `` First , the fish must be catch . ''
That be easy : a baby , I think , could have catch it .
`` Next , the fish must be buy . ''
That be easy : a penny , I think , would have buy it .
`` Now cook me the fish ! ''
That be easy , and will not take more than a minute .
`` Let it lie in a dish ! ''
That be easy , because it already be in it .
`` Bring it here !
Let me sup ! ''
It be easy to set such a dish on the table .
`` Take the dish-cover up ! ''
Ah , THAT be so hard that I fear I 'm unable !
For it hold it like glue -- Holds the lid to the dish , while it lie in the middle : Which be easy to do , Un-dish-cover the fish , or dishcover the riddle ? '
` Take a minute to think about it , and then guess , ' say the Red Queen .
` Meanwhile , we 'll drink your health -- Queen Alice 's health ! '
she scream at the top of her voice , and all the guest begin drink it directly , and very queerly they manage it : some of them put their glass upon their head like extinguisher , and drink all that trickle down their face -- others upset the decanter , and drink the wine a it run off the edge of the table -- and three of them -LRB- who look like kangaroo -RRB- scramble into the dish of roast mutton , and begin eagerly lap up the gravy , ` just like pig in a trough ! '
thought Alice .
` You ought to return thanks in a neat speech , ' the Red Queen say , frown at Alice a she speak .
` We must support you , you know , ' the White Queen whisper , a Alice get up to do it , very obediently , but a little frightened .
` Thank you very much , ' she whisper in reply , ` but I can do quite well without . '
` That would n't be at all the thing , ' the Red Queen say very decidedly : so Alice try to submit to it with a good grace .
-LRB- ` And they DID push so ! '
she say afterwards , when she be tell her sister the history of the feast .
` You would have think they want to squeeze me flat ! ' -RRB-
In fact it be rather difficult for her to keep in her place while she make her speech : the two Queens push her so , one on each side , that they nearly lift her up into the air : ' I rise to return thanks -- ' Alice begin : and she really DID rise a she speak , several inch ; but she get hold of the edge of the table , and manage to pull herself down again .
` Take care of yourself ! '
scream the White Queen , seize Alice 's hair with both her hand .
` Something 's go to happen ! '
And then -LRB- a Alice afterwards describe it -RRB- all sort of thing happen in a moment .
The candle all grow up to the ceiling , look something like a bed of rush with firework at the top .
As to the bottle , they each take a pair of plate , which they hastily fit on a wing , and so , with fork for leg , go flutter about in all direction : ` and very like bird they look , ' Alice think to herself , as well a she could in the dreadful confusion that be begin .
At this moment she hear a hoarse laugh at her side , and turn to see what be the matter with the White Queen ; but , instead of the Queen , there be the leg of mutton sit in the chair .
` Here I be ! '
cry a voice from the soup tureen , and Alice turn again , just in time to see the Queen 's broad good-natured face grinning at her for a moment over the edge of the tureen , before she disappear into the soup .
There be not a moment to be lose .
Already several of the guest be lie down in the dish , and the soup ladle be walk up the table towards Alice 's chair , and beckon to her impatiently to get out of it way . '
I ca n't stand this any long ! '
she cry a she jump up and seize the table-cloth with both hand : one good pull , and plate , dish , guest , and candle come crash down together in a heap on the floor .
` And a for YOU , ' she go on , turn fiercely upon the Red Queen , whom she consider a the cause of all the mischief -- but the Queen be no longer at her side -- she have suddenly dwindle down to the size of a little doll , and be now on the table , merrily run round and round after her own shawl , which be trail behind her .
At any other time , Alice would have felt surprise at this , but she be far too much excite to be surprise at anything NOW .
` As for YOU , ' she repeat , catch hold of the little creature in the very act of jumping over a bottle which have just light upon the table , ` I 'll shake you into a kitten , that I will ! '
CHAPTER X. Shaking She take her off the table a she speak , and shake her backwards and forward with all her might .
The Red Queen make no resistance whatever ; only her face grow very small , and her eye get large and green : and still , a Alice go on shake her , she keep on grow short -- and fatter -- and soft -- and rounder -- and -- CHAPTER XI .
Waking -- and it really WAS a kitten , after all .
CHAPTER XII .
Which Dreamed it ?
` Your majesty should n't purr so loud , ' Alice say , rub her eye , and address the kitten , respectfully , yet with some severity .
` You wake me out of oh !
such a nice dream !
And you 've be along with me , Kitty -- all through the Looking-Glass world .
Did you know it , dear ? '
It be a very inconvenient habit of kitten -LRB- Alice have once make the remark -RRB- that , whatever you say to them , they ALWAYS purr .
` If they would only purr for `` yes '' and mew for `` no , '' or any rule of that sort , ' she have say , ` so that one could keep up a conversation !
But how CAN you talk with a person if they always say the same thing ? '
On this occasion the kitten only purr : and it be impossible to guess whether it mean ` yes ' or ` no . '
So Alice hunt among the chessman on the table till she have find the Red Queen : then she go down on her knee on the hearth-rug , and put the kitten and the Queen to look at each other .
` Now , Kitty ! '
she cry , clap her hand triumphantly .
` Confess that be what you turn into ! '
-LRB- ` But it would n't look at it , ' she say , when she be explain the thing afterwards to her sister : ` it turn away it head , and pretend not to see it : but it look a LITTLE ashamed of itself , so I think it MUST have be the Red Queen . ' -RRB-
` Sit up a little more stiffly , dear ! '
Alice cry with a merry laugh .
` And curtsey while you 're think what to -- what to purr .
It save time , remember ! '
And she catch it up and give it one little kiss , ` just in honour of have be a Red Queen . '
` Snowdrop , my pet ! '
she go on , look over her shoulder at the White Kitten , which be still patiently undergo it toilet , ` when WILL Dinah have finish with your White Majesty , I wonder ?
That must be the reason you be so untidy in my dream -- Dinah !
do you know that you 're scrub a White Queen ?
Really , it 's most disrespectful of you !
` And what do DINAH turn to , I wonder ? '
she prattle on , a she settle comfortably down , with one elbow in the rug , and her chin in her hand , to watch the kitten .
` Tell me , Dinah , do you turn to Humpty Dumpty ?
I THINK you do -- however , you 'd better not mention it to your friend just yet , for I 'm not sure .
` By the way , Kitty , if only you 'd be really with me in my dream , there be one thing you WOULD have enjoy -- I have such a quantity of poetry say to me , all about fish !
To-morrow morning you shall have a real treat .
All the time you 're eat your breakfast , I 'll repeat `` The Walrus and the Carpenter '' to you ; and then you can make believe it 's oyster , dear !
` Now , Kitty , let 's consider who it be that dream it all .
This be a serious question , my dear , and you should NOT go on lick your paw like that -- a if Dinah have n't wash you this morning !
You see , Kitty , it MUST have be either me or the Red King .
He be part of my dream , of course -- but then I be part of his dream , too !
WAS it the Red King , Kitty ?
You be his wife , my dear , so you ought to know -- Oh , Kitty , DO help to settle it !
I 'm sure your paw can wait ! '
But the provoking kitten only begin on the other paw , and pretend it have n't hear the question .
Which do YOU think it be ?
-- A boat beneath a sunny sky , Lingering onward dreamily In an evening of July -- Children three that nestle near , Eager eye and willing ear , Pleased a simple tale to hear -- Long have pal that sunny sky : Echoes fade and memory die .
Autumn frost have slay July .
Still she haunt me , phantomwise , Alice move under sky Never see by wake eye .
Children yet , the tale to hear , Eager eye and willing ear , Lovingly shall nestle near .
In a Wonderland they lie , Dreaming a the day go by , Dreaming a the summer die : Ever drift down the stream -- Lingering in the golden gleam -- Life , what be it but a dream ?
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Aunt_Jo's_Scrap-Bag , _Volume_5.txt.out
I. JIMMY 'S CRUISE IN THE PINAFORE .
HOW HE SHIPPED .
A boy sat on a door-step in a despondent attitude , with his eye fix on a pair of very shabby shoe , and his elbow rest on his knee , a if to hide the big patch there .
But it be not the fact that his toe be nearly out and his clothes dilapidate which bring the wrinkle to his forehead and the tear to his eye , for he be use to that state of thing , and bore it without complaint .
The prospect be a dull one for a lively lad full of the spring longing which sunny April weather always bring .
But it be not the narrow back-street where noisy child play and two or three dusty tree try to bud without sunshine , that make him look so dismal .
Nor be it the knowledge that a pile of vest be nearly ready for him to trudge away with before he could really rest after do many errand to save mother 's weary foot .
No , it be a burden that lay very heavily on his heart , and make it impossible to even whistle a he wait .
Above the sound that fill the street he hear a patient moan from the room within ; and no matter what object his eye rest on , he saw with sorrowful distinctness a small white face turn wistfully toward the window , a if weary of the pillow where it have lay so long .
Merry little Kitty , who use to sing and dance from morning till night , be now so feeble and waste that he could carry her about like a baby .
All day she lay moan softly , and her one comfort be when `` brother '' could come and sing to her .
That night he could not sing ; his heart be so full , because the doctor have say that the poor child must have country air as soon a possible , else she never would recover from the fever which leave her such a sad little ghost of her former self .
But , alas , there be no money for the trip , and mother be sew day and night to earn enough for a week at least of blessed country air and quiet .
Jimmy do his best to help , but could find very little to do , and the penny come in so slowly he be almost in despair .
There be no father to lend a strong hand , and Mrs. Nelson be one of the `` silent poor , '' who can not ask for charity , no matter how much they may need it .
The twelve-year-old boy consider himself the man of the family , and manfully carry a many burden a his young shoulder would bear ; but this be a very heavy one , so it be no wonder that he look sober .
Holding his curly head in his hand , a if to keep it from fly asunder with the various plan work inside , he sit star at the dusty brick in a desperate frame of mind .
Warm day be come , and every hour be precious , for poor Kitty pin in the close room , and all he could do be to bring her dandelion and bit of green grass from the Common when she beg to go in the field and pick `` pretties '' for herself .
He love the little sister dearly , and , a he remember her longing , his eye fill , and he double up both fist with an air of determination , mutter to himself , -- `` She shall go !
I do n't see any other way , and I 'll do it ! ''
The plan which have be uppermost lately be this .
His father have be a sailor , and Jimmy propose to run away to sea a cabin boy .
His wage be to be pay before he go , so mother and Kitty could be in the country while he be go , and in a few month he would come sail gayly home to find the child her rosy self again .
A very boyish and impossible plan , but he mean it , and be in just the mood to carry it out , -- for every other attempt to make money have fail .
`` I 'll do it as sure a my name be Jim Nelson .
I 'll take a look at the ship this very night , and go in the first one that will have me , '' he say , with a resolute nod of the head , though his heart sank within him at the thought .
`` I wonder which kind of captain pay boy best ?
I guess I 'll try a steamer ; they make short trip .
I hear the cannon to-day , so one be in , and I 'll try for a place before I go to bed . ''
Little do desperate Jimmy guess what ship he would really sail in , nor what a prosperous voyage he be about to make ; for help be come that very minute , a it generally do , sooner or later , to generous people who be very much in earnest .
First a shrill whistle be hear , at the sound of which he look up quickly ; then a rosy-faced girl of about his own age come skip down the street , swing her hat by one string ; and , a Jimmy watch her approach , a smile begin to soften the grim look he wear , for Willy Bryant be his best friend and neighbor , be full of courage , fun , and kindness .
He nod , and make room for her on the step , -- the place she usually occupy at spare moment when they get lesson and recount their scrape to each other .
But to-night Willy seem possess of some unusually good piece of news which she choose to tell in her own lively fashion , for , instead of sit down , she begin to dance a sailor 's hornpipe , sing gayly , `` I 'm little Buttercup , sweet little Buttercup , '' till her breath give out .
`` What make you so jolly , Will ? ''
ask Jimmy , a she drop down beside him and fan herself with the ill-used hat .
`` Such fun -- you 'll never guess -- just what we want -- if your mother only will !
You 'll dance , too , when you know , '' pant the girl , smile like a substantial sort of fairy come to bring good luck .
`` Fire away , then .
It will have to be extra nice to set me off .
I do n't feel a bit like jig now , '' answer Jimmy , a the gloom obscure his face again , like a cloud over the sun .
`` You know ` Pinafore ' ? ''
begin Will , and get a quick nod for an answer , she pour forth the following tale with great rapidity : `` Well , some folk be go to get it up with child to do it , and they want any boy and girl that can sing to go and be look at to-morrow , and the good one will be pick out , and dress up , and teach how to act , and have the nice time that ever be .
Some of our girl be go , and so be I , and you sing and must come , too , and have some fun .
Wo n't it be jolly ? ''
`` I guess it would ; but I ca n't .
Mother need me every minute out of school , '' begin Jimmy , with a shake of the head , have make up his mind some time ago that he must learn to do without fun .
`` But we shall be pay for it , '' cry Will , clap her hand with the double delight of tell the best part of her story , and see Jimmy 's sober face clear suddenly a if the sun have burst forth with great brilliancy .
`` Really ?
How much ?
Can I sing well enough ? ''
and he clutch her arm excitedly , for this unexpected ray of hope dazzle him .
`` Some of them will have ten dollar a week , and some more , -- the real nice one , like Lee , the singing boy , who be a wonder , '' answer Will , in the tone of one well inform on such point .
`` Ten dollar ! ''
gasp Jimmy , for the immensity of the sum take his breath away .
`` Could I get that ?
How long ?
Where do we go ?
Do they really want u fellows ?
Are you sure it 's all true ? ''
`` It be all in the paper , and Miss Pym , the teacher who board at our house , tell Ma about it .
The folk advertise for school-children , sixty of 'em , and will really pay ; and Ma say I could go and try , and all the money I get I 'm go to put in a bank and have for my own .
Do n't you believe me now ? ''
Miss Pym and the newspaper settle the matter in Jimmy 's mind , and make him more anxious than before about the other point .
`` Do you think I would have any chance ? ''
he ask , still hold Will , who seem inclined for another dance .
`` I know you would .
Do n't you do splendidly at school ?
And do n't they want you for a choir boy , only your mother could n't spare you ? ''
answer Will , decidedly ; for Jimmy do love music , and have a sweet little pipe of his own , a she well know .
`` Mother will have to spare me now , if they pay like that .
I can work all day and do without sleep to earn money this way .
Oh , Will , I 'm so glad you come , for I be just ready to run away to sea .
There do n't seem anything else to do , '' whisper Jimmy in a choky sort of tone , a hope and fear struggle together in his boyish mind .
`` Run as fast a you like , and I 'll go too .
We 'll sail in the ` Pinafore , ' and come home with our pocket full of money . ''
` Sing , hey , the merry maiden and the tar ! ' ''
burst out Will , who be so full of spirit she could not keep still another minute .
Jimmy join in , and the fresh voice echo through the street so pleasantly that Mrs. Peters stop scold her six squabbling child , while Kitty 's moan change to a feeble little sound of satisfaction , for `` brother 's '' lullaby be her chief comfort and delight .
`` We shall lose school , you know , for we act in the afternoon , not the evening .
I do n't care ; but you will , you like to study so well .
Miss Pym do n't like it at first , but Ma say it would help the poor folk , and a little fun would n't hurt the child .
I think of you right away , and if you do n't get as much money a I do , you shall have some of mine , so Kitty can go away soon . ''
Will 's merry face grow very sweet and kind a she say that , and Jimmy be glad his mother call him just then , because he do not know how to thank this friend in need .
When he come out with the parcel of vest he look like a different boy , for Mrs. Nelson have tell him to go and find out all about it , and have seem a much dazzle by the prospect a he do , sew be such weary work .
Their interview with Miss Pym be a most encouraging one , and it be soon settle that Jimmy should go with Will to try for a place on the morrow .
`` And I 'll get it , too ! ''
he say to himself , a he kiss Kitty 's thin cheek , full of the sweet hope that he might be the mean of bring back life and color to the little face he love so well .
He be so excited he could not sleep , and beguile the long hour by hum under his breath all the air he know belong to the already popular opera .
Next morning he fly about his work a if for a wager , and when Will come for him there be not a happy heart in all the city than the hopeful one that thump under Jimmy 's threadbare best jacket .
Such a crowd of girl and boy a they find at the hall where they be tell to apply for inspection ; such a chirping and pip go on there , it sound like a big cage full of lark and linnet ; and by and by , when the trial be over , such a smile troop of child a be leave to be drill by the energetic gentleman who have the matter in hand .
Among this happy band stand our Jimmy , chosen for his good voice , and Will , because of her bright face and lively , self-possessed manner .
They could hardly wait to be dismiss , and it be a race home to see who should be first to tell the good news .
Jimmy try to be quiet on Kitty 's account , but fail entirely ; and it be a pleasant sight to see the boy run into his mother 's arm , cry joyfully , -- `` I 'm in !
I 'm in !
Ten dollar a week !
Hurrah ! ''
`` I can hardly believe it ! ''
And weary Mrs. Nelson drop her needle to indulge in a few moment of delightful repose .
`` If it go well they may want u for a month or six week , '' the man say .
`` Just think , maybe I 'll get fifty or sixty dollar !
and Baby will get well right off , '' cry Jimmy , in an arithmetical sort of rapture , a he lean above Kitty , who try to clap her little hand without quite know what the joy be all about .
HOW HE SAILED .
After that day Jimmy lead a very happy life , for he love music and enjoy the daily drill with his mate , though it be long before he saw the inside of the theatre .
Will know a good deal about it , for an actor 's family have board with her mother , and the little girl have be behind the scene .
But to Jimmy , who have only see one fairy play , all be very strange when at last he go upon the stage ; for the glittering world he expect be go , and all be dusty , dark , and queer , with trap-doors underfoot , machinery overhead , and a wilderness of scenery jumble together in the droll way .
He be all eye and ear , and enjoy himself immensely a he come and go , sung and act , with the troop of lad who make up the sailor chorus .
It be a real ship to him , in spite of painted cannon , shaky mast , and cabin door that lead nowhere .
He long to run up the rigging ; but a that be forbidden , for fear of danger , he content himself by obey order with nautical obedience , sing with all his might , and take great satisfaction in his blue suit with the magical letter `` H. M. S. Pinafore '' round his cap .
Day by day all grow more and more interesting .
His mother be never tire of hear his adventure , he sing Kitty to sleep with the new song , and the neighbor take such a friendly interest in his success that they call him Lord Nelson , and predict that he would be as famous a his great namesake .
When the grand day come at last , and the crew of jolly young tar stand ready to burst forth with the opening chorus , `` We sail the ocean blue , Our saucy ship 's a beauty ; We 're gallant men and true , And bound to do our duty ! ''
Jimmy hardly know whether he stand on his head or his heel at first , for , in spite of many rehearsal , everything seem change .
Instead of daylight , gas shone everywhere , the empty seat be full , the orchestra playing splendidly , and when the curtain rise , a sea of friendly face welcome them , and the pleasant sound of applause make the heart under the blue jacket dance gayly .
How those boy do sing !
how their eye shone , and their foot keep time to the familiar strain !
with what a relish they hitch up their trouser and lurch about , or salute and cheer a the play demand .
With what interest they watch the microscopic midshipmite , listen to Rafe a his sweet voice melodiously tell the story of his hapless love , and smile on pretty Josephine , who be a regular bluebird without the scream .
`` Ai n't this fun ? ''
whisper Jimmy 's next neighbor , take advantage of a general burst of laughter , a the inimitable little bumboat woman advertise her ware with captivate drollery .
`` Right down jolly ! ''
answered Jimmy , feel that a series of somersault across the stage would be an immense relief to the pent-up emotion of his boyish soul .
For under all the natural excitement of the hour deep down lay the sweet certainty that he be earn health for Kitty , and it make his heart sing for joy more blithely than any jovial chorus to which he lend his happy voice .
But his bliss be not complete till the stately Sir Joseph , K. C. B. , have come aboard , follow by `` his sister and his cousin and his aunt ; '' for among that flock of devoted relative in white muslin and gay ribbon be Will .
Standing in the front row , her bright face be good to see , for her black eye sparkle , every hair on her head curl it best , her cherry bow stream in the breeze , and her foot prance irresistibly at the lively part of the music .
She long to dance the hornpipe which the little Quaker aunt do so capitally , but , be deny that honor , distinguish herself by the comic vigor with which she `` polish up the handle of the big front door , '' and do the other `` business '' record by the gallant `` ruler of the Queen 's Navee . ''
She and Jimmy nod to each other behind the Admiral 's august back , and while Captain Corcoran be sing to the moon , and Buttercup suffer the pang of `` Wemorse , '' the young people have a gay time behind the scene .
Jimmy and Will sit upon a green baize bank to compare note , while the relative fly about like butterfly , and the sailor talk base-ball , jack-knives , and other congenial topic , when not envy Sir Joseph his cock hat , and the Captain his epaulette .
It be a very successful launch , and the merry little crew set sail with a fair wind and every prospect of a prosperous voyage .
When the first performance be over , our two child leave their fine feather behind them , like Cinderella when the magic hour struck , and go gayly home , feel much elate , for they know they should go back to fresh triumph , and be earn money by their voice like Jenny Lind and Mario .
How they pity other boy and girl who could not go in at that mysterious little door ; how important they felt a part of the spectacle about which every one be talk , and what millionnaires they consider themselves a they discuss their earnings and plan what to do with the prospective fortune .
That be the beginning of many busy , happy week for both the child , -- week which they long remember with great pleasure , a do old and wise people ; for that merry , innocent little opera prove that theatre can be make the scene of harmless amusement , and open to a certain class of young people a new and profitable field for their talent .
So popular do this small company become that the piece go on through the summer vacation , and be play in the morning as well a afternoon to satisfy the crowd who wish to see and hear it .
Never have the dear old Boston Museum , which so many of u have love and haunt for year , see such a pretty sight a one of those morning performance .
It be the perfection of harmless merry-making , and the audience be a pleasant a spectacle a that upon the stage .
Fathers and mother steal an hour from their busy life to come and be child with their child , irresistibly attract and charm by the innocent fun , the gay music that bewitch the ear one could hardly tell why , and the artless acting of those who be always play part , whether the nursery or the theatre be their stage .
The window stand open , and sunshine and fresh air come in to join the revel .
Babies crow and prattle , mammas chat together , old people find they have not forget how to laugh , and boy and girl rejoice over the discovery of a new delight for holiday .
It be good to be there , and in spite of all the discussion in paper and parlor , no harm come to the young mariner , but much careful training of various sort , and well-earned wage that go into pocket which sorely need a silver lining .
HOW THE VOYAGE ENDED .
So the good ship `` Pinafore '' sail and sail for many prosperous week , and when at last she come into port and drop anchor for the season she be receive with a salute of general approbation for the successful engagement out of which she come with her flag fly and not one of her gallant crew kill or wound .
Well pleased with their share of the glory , officer and men go ashore to spend their prize money with true sailor generosity , all eager to ship again for another cruise in the autumn .
But long before that time Able Seaman James Nelson have send his family into the country , mother beg Will to take good care of her dear boy till he could join them , and Kitty throw kiss a she smile good-by , with cheek already the rosier for the comfort `` brother '' have earn for her .
Jimmy would not desert his ship while she float , but manage to spend his Sundays out of town , often take Will with him a first mate ; and , thanks to her lively tongue , friend be soon make for the new-comers .
Mrs. Nelson find plenty of sewing , Kitty grow strong and well in the fine air , and the farmer with whom they live , see what a handy lad the boy be , offer him work and wage for the autumn , so all could be independent and together .
With this comfortable prospect before him , Jimmy sing away like a contented blackbird , never tire of his duty , for he be a general favorite , and Kitty literally strew his way with flower gather by her own grateful little hand .
When the last day come , he be in such spirit that he be find do double-shuffles in corner , hug the midshipmite , who be a little girl of about Kitty 's age , and treat his messmate to peanut with a lavish hand .
Will have her hornpipe , also , when the curtain be down , kiss every one of the other `` sister , cousin , and aunt , '' and join lustily in the rousing farewell cheer give by the crew .
A few hour later , a cheerful-looking boy might have be see trudge toward one of the railway-stations .
A new hat , brave in blue streamer , be on his head ; a red balloon struggle to escape from one hand ; a shabby carpet-bag , stuffed full , be in the other ; and a pair of shiny shoe creak briskly , a if the foot inside be go on a very pleasant errand .
About this young traveller , who walk with a sailor-like roll and lurch , revolve a little girl chatter like a magpie , and occasionally break into song , a if she could n't help it .
`` Be sure you come next Saturday ; it wo n't be half such fun if you do n't go half , '' say the boy , beam at her a he haul down the impatient balloon , which seem inclined to break from it mooring '' ` Yes , I know That be so ! ' ''
hum the girl with a skip to starboard , that she might bear a hand with the bag .
`` Keep some cherry for me , and do n't forget to give Kit the doll I dress for her . ''
`` I should n't have be go myself if it have n't be for you , Will .
I never shall forget that , '' say Jimmy , whom intense satisfaction render rather more sedate than his friend .
`` Running away to sea be great fun , ` With a tar that plough the water ! ' ''
sung Will in spite of herself . ''
` And a gallant captain 's daughter , ' '' echoed Jimmy , smile across the carpet-bag .
Then both join in an irrepressible chorus of `` Dash it !
Dash it ! ''
a a big man nearly upset them and a dog bark madly at the balloon .
Being safely land in the train , Jimmy hang out of the window till the last minute , discuss his new prospect with Will , who stand on tiptoe outside , bubble over with fun .
`` I 'll teach you to make butter and cheese , and you shall be my dairy-woman , for I mean to be a farmer , '' he say , just a the bell rang .
`` All right , I 'd like that ever so much . ''
And then the irrepressible madcap burst out , to the great amusement of the passenger , -- '' ` For you might have be a Roosian , A Frenchman , Turk or Proosian , Or an Ital-i-an . ' ''
And Jimmy could not resist shout back , a the train begin to move , -- '' ` But in spite of all temptation To belong to other nation , I 'm an Amer-i-can . ' ''
Then he subside , to think over the happy holiday before him and the rich cargo of comfort , independence , and pleasure he have bring home from his successful cruise in the `` Pinafore . ''
II .
TWO LITTLE TRAVELLERS .
The first of these true history be about Annie Percival , -- a very dear and lovely child , whose journey interested many other child , and be still remember with gratitude by those whom she visit on a far-off island .
Annie be six when she sail away to Fayal with her mother , grandmamma , and `` little Aunt Ruth , '' a she call the young aunty who be still a school-girl .
Very cunning be Annie 's outfit , and her little trunk be a pretty as well a a curious sight , for everything be so small and complete it look a if a doll be set off for Europe .
Such a wee dressing-case , with bit of comb and brush for the curly head ; such a cosey scarlet wrapper for the small woman to wear in her berth , with slipper to match when she trot from state-room to state-room ; such pile of tiny garment lay nicely in , and the owner 's initial on the outside of the trunk ; not to mention the key on a ribbon in her pocket , a grow up a you please .
I think the sight of that earnest , sunshiny face must have be very pleasant to all on board , no matter how seasick they might be , and the sound of the cheery little voice , as sweet a the chirp of a bird , especially when she sing the funny song about the `` Owl and the pussy-cat in the pea-green boat , '' for she have charm way , and be always make quaint , wise , or love remark .
Well , `` they sail and they sail , '' and come at last to Fayal , where everything be so new and strange that Annie 's big brown eye could hardly spare time to sleep , so busy be they look about .
The donkey amuse her very much , so do the queer language and way of the Portuguese people round her , especially the very droll name give to the hen of a young friend .
The biddy seem to speak the same dialect a at home , but evidently they understand Spanish also , and know their own name , so it be fun to go and call Rio , Pico , Cappy , Clarissa , Whorfie , and poor Simonena , whose breast-bone grow out so that she could not eat and have to be kill .
But the thing which make the deep impression on Annie be a visit to a charity-school at the old convent of San Antonio .
It be keep by some kind lady , and twenty-five girl be taught and care for in the big , bare place , that look rather gloomy and forlorn to people from happy Boston , where charitable institution be on a noble scale , a everybody know .
Annie watch all that go on with intelligent interest , and when they be show into the play-room she be much amaze and afflict to find that the child have nothing to play with but a heap of rag , out of which they make queer doll , with ravelled twine for hair , face rudely draw on the cloth , and funny boot on the shapeless leg .
No other toy appear , but the girl sit on the floor of the great stone room , -- for there be no furniture , -- play contentedly with their poor doll , and smile and nod at `` the little Americana , '' who gravely regard this sad spectacle , wonder how they could get on without china and waxen baby , tea-sets , and pretty chair and table to keep house with .
The girl think that she envy them their doll , and presently one come shyly up to offer two of their best , leave the teacher to explain in English their wish to be polite to their distinguish guest .
Like the little gentlewoman she be , Annie graciously accept the ugly bit of rag with answer nod and smile , and carry them away with her as carefully a if they be of great beauty and value .
But when she be at home she express much concern and distress at the destitute condition of the child .
Nothing but rag to play with seemed a peculiarly touch state of poverty to her childish mind , and be a generous creature she yearn to give of her abundance to `` all the poor orphan who do n't have any nice dolly . ''
She have several pet of her own , but not enough to go round even if she sacrifice them , so kind grandmamma , who have be do thing of this sort all her life , relieve the child 's perplexity by promise to send twenty-five fine doll to Fayal as soon a the party return to Boston , where these necessary of child-life be cheap and plenty .
Thus comfort , Annie felt that she could enjoy her dear Horta and Chica Pico Fatiera , particular darling rechristened since her arrival .
A bundle of gay bit of silk , cloth , and flannel , and a present of money for book , be send out to the convent by the lady .
A treat of little cheese for the girl to eat with their dry bread be add , much to Annie 's satisfaction , and help to keep alive her interest in the school of San Antonio .
After many pleasant adventure during the six month spend in the city , our party come sailing home again all the good for the trip , and Annie so full of tale to tell that it be a never-failing source of amusement to hear her hold forth to her young brother in her pretty way , `` splaining and ` scribe all about it . ''
Grandmamma 's promise be faithfully keep , and Annie brood blissfully over the twenty-five doll till they be dress , pack , and send away to Fayal .
A letter of thanks soon come back from the teacher , tell how surprised and delight the girl be , and how they talk of Annie a if she be a sort of fairy princess who in return for two poor rag-babies send a miraculous shower of splendid china lady with gay gown and smile face .
This childish charity be make memorable to all who know of it by the fact that three month after she come home from that happy voyage Annie take the one from which there be no return .
For this journey there be need no preparation but a little white gown , a coverlet of flower , and the casket where the treasure of many heart be tenderly lay away .
All alone , but not afraid , little Annie cross the unknown sea that roll between our world and the Islands of the Blest , to be welcome there , I be sure , by spirit as innocent a her own , leave behind her a very precious memory of her budding virtue and the relic of a short , sweet life .
Every one mourn for her , and all her small treasure be so carefully keep that they still exist .
Poor Horta , in the pincushion arm-chair , seem wait patiently for the little mamma to come again ; the two rag-dolls lie side by side in grandma 's scrap-book , since there be now no happy voice to wake them into life ; and far away in the convent of San Antonio the orphan carefully keep their pretty gift in memory of the sweet giver .
To them she be a saint now , not a fairy princess ; for when they hear of her death they ask if they might pray for the soul of the dear little Americana , and the teacher say , `` Pray rather for the poor mother who have lose so much . ''
So the grateful orphan pray and the mother be comfort , for now another little daughter lie in her arm and kiss away the lonely pain at her heart .
* * * * * The second small traveller I want to tell about live in the same city a the first , and her name be Maggie Woods .
Her father be an Englishman who come to America to try his fortune , but do not find it ; for , when Maggie be three month old , the great Chicago fire destroy their home ; soon after , the mother die ; then the father be drown , and Maggie be leave all alone in a strange country .
She have a good aunt in England , however , who take great pain to discover the child after the death of the parent , and send for her to come home and be care for .
It be no easy matter to get a five-years ' child across the Atlantic , for the aunt could not come to fetch her , and no one whom she know be go over .
But Maggie have find friend in Chicago ; the American consul at Manchester be interested in the case , and every one be glad to help the forlorn baby , who be too young to understand the pathos of her story .
After letter have go to and fro , it be decide to send the child to England in charge of the captain of a steamer , trust to the kindness of all fellow-travellers to help her on her way .
The friend in Chicago bestir themselves to get her ready , and then it be that Annie 's mother find that she could do something which would have delight her darling , have she be here to know of it .
Laid tenderly away be many small garment belong to the other little pilgrim , whose journeying be so soon end ; and from among all these precious thing Mrs. Percival carefully choose a comfortable outfit for that cold March voyage .
The little gray gown go , and the red hood , the warm sock , and the cosey wrap no longer need by the quiet sleeper under the snow .
Perhaps something of her loving nature linger about the clothes , and help to keep the orphan warm and safe , for Annie 's great delight be to pet and help all who need comfort and protection .
When all be ready , Maggie 's small effect be pack in a light basket , so that she could carry it herself if need be .
A card briefly tell the story be fasten on the corner , and a similar paper recommend her to the protection of all kind people , be sew to the bosom of her frock .
Then , not in the least realize what lay before her , the child be consign to the conductor of the train to be forward to person in New York who would see her safely on board the steamer .
I should dearly like to have see the little maid and the big basket a they set out on that long trip as tranquilly a if for a day 's visit ; and it be a comfort to know that before the train start , the person who take her there have interested a motherly lady in the young traveller , who promise to watch over her while their way be the same .
All go well , and Maggie be safely deliver to the New York friend , who forward her to the steamer , well supply with toy and comfort for the voyage , and place in charge of captain and stewardess .
She sail on the 3d of March , and on the 12th land at Liverpool , after a pleasant trip , during which she be the pet of all on board .
The aunt welcome her joyfully , and the same day the child reach her new home , the Commercial Inn , Compstall , after a journey of over four thousand mile .
The consul and owner of the steamer want to see the adventurous young lady who have come so far alone , and neighbor and stranger make quite a lion of her , for all kindly heart be interested , and the protective charity which have guide and guard her in two hemisphere and across the wide sea , make all men father , all woman mother , to the little one till she be safe .
Her picture lie before me a I write , -- a pretty child stand in a chair , with a basket of toy on the table before her ; curly hair push back from the face , pensive eye , and a pair of stout little foot cross one over the other a if glad to rest .
I wish I could put the photograph into the story , because the small heroine be an interest one , and still live with the good aunt , who be very fond and proud of her , and write pleasant account of her progress to the friend in America .
So end the journey of my second small traveller , and when I think of her safe and happy in a good home , I always fancy that -LRB- if such thing may be -RRB- in the land which be lovely than even beautiful old England , Maggie 's mother watch over little Annie .
III .
A JOLLY FOURTH .
Door-step party be the fashion that year , and it be while a dozen young folk sit chat on Annie Hadwin 's step in the twilight that they lay the plan which turn out such a grand success in the end .
`` For my part , I be glad we be to be put on a short allowance of gunpowder , and that cracker be forbid , they be such a nuisance , burn hole in clothes , frighten horse , and set house afire , '' say sober Fred from the gate , where he and several other fellow be roost socially together .
`` It wo n't seem a bit like a regular Fourth without the salute three time during the day .
They be afraid the old cannon will kick , and blow off some other fellow 's arm , a it do last year , '' add Elly Dickens , the beau of the party , a he pull down his neat wristband , hop Maud admire the new cuff-buttons in them .
`` What shall we do in the evening , since the ball be give up ?
Just because the old folk be too tired to enjoy dance , we ca n't have any , and I think it be too bad , '' say pretty Belle , impatiently , for she dance like a fairy and be never tire .
`` The authority do n't dare to stop our race in the morning .
There would have be an insurrection if they have , '' call out long Herbert from the grass , where he lay at the foot of black-eyed Julia .
`` We must do something to finish off with .
Come , somebody suggest a new , nice , safe , and jolly plan for the evening , '' cry Grace , who like fun , and have just slip a little toad into Jack Spratt 's pocket a a pleasant surprise when he felt for his handkerchief .
`` Let u offer a prize for the bright idea .
Five minute for meditation , then all suggest a plan , and the best one shall be adopt , '' propose Annie , glad to give a lively turn to her party .
All agree , and sudden silence follow the chatter , break now and then by an exclamation of `` I 've get it !
No , I have n't , '' which produce a laugh at the impetuous party .
`` Time 's up , '' announce Fred , look at `` the turnip , '' a his big old-fashioned watch be call .
Every one have a proposal more or less original , and much discussion follow ; but it be finally decide that Herbert 's idea of float about in boat to enjoy the firework on the hill would be romantic , reposeful , and on the whole satisfactory .
`` Each boat might have a colored lantern ; that would look pretty , and then there would be no danger of run into our neighbor in the dark , '' say Annie , who be a little timid on the water in a wherry .
`` Why not have lot , and make a regular ` feast of lantern , ' a they do in China ?
I be read about it the other day , and can show you how to do it .
Wo n't it be gay ? ''
And Fred the bookworm nearly tumble off his perch , a an excited gesture empty his pocket of the library book which serve a ballast .
`` Yes !
yes ! ''
cry the other lad , with various demonstration of delight a the new fancy grow upon their lively mind .
`` Fred and Annie must have the prize , for their idea be the most brilliant one .
Nan can give the flag to the winner of the race , and ` Deacon ' can lead the boat , for I think it would be fine to have a procession on the river .
Fireworks be an old story , so let u surprise the town by something regularly splendid , '' propose Elly , fire in his turn with a bright idea .
`` We will !
we will ! ''
cry the rest , and at once plunge into the affair with all the ardor of their year .
`` Let u dress up , '' say Julia , who like theatrical .
`` In different character , '' add Maud , think how well her long yellow hair would look a a mermaid .
`` And all sing a we go under the bridge , '' put in Annie , who adore music .
`` What a pity the boat ca n't dance , it would be so lovely to see them waltz round like firefly ! ''
say Belle , still long for the ball .
`` A lot of fellow be come up to spend the day with u , and we ought to have some sort of a picnic ; city folk think so much of such thing , '' say Herbert the hospitable , for his house and barn be the favorite resort of all his mate , and three gentle little sister always come into his plan if possible .
`` I 've get two girl cousin come , and they would like it , I guess .
I should any way , for Jack will go tagging after Grace and leave me to take care of them .
Let 's have a picnic , by all mean , '' say lazy Fred , who think all girl but one great plague .
`` I should n't wonder if all our people like that plan , and we might have a town picnic a we do once before .
Let every one ask his or her mother , and see if we ca n't do it , '' suggest Annie , eager for a whole day of merry-making .
The door-step party be late in break up that night ; and if half the plan propose have be carry out , that town would have be consider a large lunatic asylum .
Wiser head remodelled the wild plan , however , and more skilful hand lend their aid , so that only the possible be attempt , though the old folk have bright idea as well a the boy and girl , and give the finishing touch to the affair .
The Fourth be a fine day , with a fresh air , cloudless sky , and no dust .
The town be early astir , though neither sunrise cannon nor the Antiques and Horribles disturb the dawn with their clamor .
The bell ring merrily , and at eight all flock to the Town Hall to hear the Declaration of Independence read by the good and great man of the town , whose own wise and noble word go echo round the world , teach the same lesson of justice , truth , and courage a that immortal protest .
An Ode by the master of the revel be sing , then every one shout America with hearty good-will , and before the echo have fairly die away , the crowd stream forth to the river-side ; for these energetic people be bind to make a day of it .
At nine the race begin , and both green bank of the stream be line with gay group eagerly watch `` our boy '' a they sweep by in wherry , paddle in canoe , or splash and tumble in and out of their tub amid shout of laughter from the spectator .
The old fellow do the scientific , and their prize be duly award by the judge .
But our young party have their share of fun , and Fred and Herbert , who be chum in everything , win the race for the little flag yearly give to the lad for any success on the river .
Then the weary hero load the big dory with a cargo of girl , and with the banner blow gayly in the wind , row away to the wide meadow , where seven oak cast shade enough to shelter a large picnic .
And a large one they have , for the mamma take kindly to the child 's suggestion , agree to club together in a social lunch , each contribute her store , her family , and her guest , all be happy together in the free and easy way so pleasant and possible in summer weather .
A merry company they be , and it be a comfortable sight to see the tired father lie in the shade , while the housewife forget their care for a day , the young folk make table-setting and dishwashing a joke by do it together , and the child frolic to their heart ' content .
Even the baby be trundle to the party by proud mamma and take nap in their carriage , or hold reception for admire friend and neighbor with infantile dignity .
A social , sensible time , and when sunset come all turn homeward to make ready for the evening festivity .
It be vaguely rumor that the pretty rustic bridge be to be illuminate , for the old people have take up the idea and have their surprise ready as well a the young folk .
A band be station by the river-side , a pretty villa on the hill blaze out with line of light , and elm and apple-trees bore red and golden lantern , like glorify fruit .
The clerk of the weather be evidently interested in this novel entertainment , for the evening be windless , dark , and cool , so the arch of light that span the shadowy river shone splendidly .
Fireworks soar up from the hill-top beyond , firefly lend their dancing spark to illuminate the meadow , and the three bridge be laden with the crowd , who greet each new surprise with cry of admiration .
Higher up the stream , where two branch meet about a rocky island , elves seem gather for a summer revel .
From all the landing that line either shore brilliant boat glide to the rendezvous ; some hung with luminous globe of blue and silver , some with lantern fiery-red , flower-shaped , golden , green , or variegate , a if a rainbow be festoon about the viewless mast .
Up and down they flash , steal out from dusky nook and float in their own radiance , a they go to join the procession that wind about the island like a splendid sea-serpent uncoil itself from sleep and darkness .
`` Is n't it beautiful ? ''
cry even the sober of the townsfolk , a all turn their back on the shining bridge and burst rocket to admire the new spectacle , which be fine than it most enthusiastic advocate expect .
All felt proud of their success a they look , and even the child forget to shout while watch the pretty pageant that presently come float by , with music , light , and half-seen figure so charming , grotesque , or romantic that the illusion be complete .
First , a boat so covered with green bough and twinkle yellow spark that it look like a float island by starlight or a cage of singing-birds , for music come from within and fresh voice , lead by Annie , sang sweetly a it sail along .
Then a gondola of lovely Venetian lady , row by the handsome artist , who be the pride of the town .
Next a canoe hold three dusky Indians , complete in war-paint , wampum , and tomahawk , paddle before the brilliant barge in which Cleopatra sit among red cushion , fan by two pretty maid .
Julia 's black eye sparkle a she glance about her , feel very queen-like with a golden crown on her head , all the jewelry she could muster on her neck and arm , and grandmother 's yellow brocade shin in the light .
Belle and Grace wave their peacock fan like two comely little Egyptian damsel , and the many-colored lantern make a pretty picture of the whole .
A boatful of jolly little tar follow , with Tom Brown , Jr. , a skipper .
Then a party of fairy in white , with silver wing and wand , and lantern like moon and star .
Lou Pope , a Lady of the Lake , row her own boat , with Jack for a droll little Harper , twang his zitter for want of a good instrument .
A black craft hung with lurid red lantern and man by a crew of ferocious pirate in scarlet shirt , dark beard , and an imposing display of pistol and cutlass in their belt , not to mention the well-known skull and cross-bones on the flag fly at the masthead , produce a tremendous effect a the crew clash their arm and roar the blood-thirstiest song they could find .
All the boy cheer that , and all the horse prance a the pirate fire off their pistol , cause timid lady to shriek , and prudent driver to retire from the bridge with their carriage-loads of company .
A Chinese junk -LRB- or what be intend to look like one , but really resemble a mud-scow -RRB- , with a party of Mandarins , rich in fan , umbrella , and pigtail , take tea on board in a blaze of fantastic lantern , delight the child .
Then a long low boat come slide by softly , light with pale blue lamp , and on a white couch lay `` Elaine , '' the letter in her hand , the golden hair stream to her knee , and at her foot the dwarf sorrowfully row her down to Camelot .
Every one recognize that , for the master of the revel get it up a no one else could ; and Maud laugh to herself a the floating tableau go under the bridge , and she hear people rush to the other side , wait eagerly to see the `` lily maid '' appear and glide away , follow by applause , a one of the pretty sight see that night .
There be eighty boat in all , and a the glittering train wound along the curve of the river smooth and dark a a mirror , the effect be truly beautiful , especially when they all congregate below the illuminated bridge , make an island of many-colored light .
An enchanted island it seem to lookers-on , for music and laughter come from it , and a strange mixture of picturesque face and figure flit to and fro .
Elaine sit up and ate bonbon with the faithful dwarf ; Ellen Douglas duck the Harper ; the Chinamen invite Cleopatra to tea ; the mermaid pelt the pirate with water-lilies ; the gallant gondolier talk art with the Venetian lady ; and the jolly little tar dance hornpipe , regardless of danger ; while the three Indians , Fred , Herbert , and Elly , whoop and tomahawk right and leave a if on the war-path .
A regular Midsummer Night 's Dream frolic , which every one enjoy heartily , while the band play patriotic air , the pretty villa shone like a fairy palace , and the sky be full of dazzle meteor , fall star , and long-tailed comet , a the rocket whiz and blaze from the hill-tops .
Just a the fun be at it height the hurried clang of a bell startle the merry-makers , and a cry of `` Fire ! ''
come from the town , cause a general stampede .
`` Post-office all afire !
Men want ! ''
shout a breathless boy , race through the crowd toward the river .
Then great be the scampering , for shop stand thickly all about the post-office , and distract merchant hastily collect their good , while the fireman smash window , run up and down ladder , break in door , and pour stream of water with generous impartiality over everybody and everything in the neighborhood , and the boy fly about , a if this unexpected display of firework suit them exactly .
Such noble exertion could not fail of success , and the fire be happily extinguish before the river be pump dry .
Then every one go home , and , feel the need of refreshment after their labor , have supper all over again , to the great delight of the young folk , who consider this a most appropriate finish to an exciting day .
But the merry party of all be the one gather on Fred 's piazza to eat cake and talk over the fun .
Such a droll group a they be .
The Indians be sadly dilapidate a to feather and paint , beside be muddy to the knee , have land in hot haste .
Poor Cleopatra have be drench by the hose , but though very damp still sparkle with unextinguishable gayety .
Elaine have tie herself up in a big shawl , have lose her hat overboard .
Jack and Grace wear one waterproof , and Annie be hoarse with lead her choir of bird on the float island .
Also several of the pirate wear their beard twist round behind for the sake of convenience in eating .
All be wet , warm , and weary , but all rejoice over the success of the day 's delight , and it be unanimously agree that this have be the jolly Fourth they have ever know .
IV .
SEVEN BLACK CATS .
They all come uninvited , they all lead eventful life , and all die tragical death ; so out of the long list of cat whom I have love and lose , these seven be the most interesting and memorable .
I have no prejudice against color , but it so happen that our pussy be usually gray or maltese .
One white one , who would live in the coal-bin , be a failure , and we never repeat the experiment .
Black cat have not be offer u , so we have no experience of them till number one come to u in this wise .
Sitting at my window , I saw a very handsome pus come walk down the street in the most composed and dignified manner .
I watch him with interest , wonder where he be go .
Pausing now and then , he examine the house a he pass , a if look for a particular number , till , come to our gate , he push it open , and walk in .
Straight up to the door he come , and find it shut sit down to wait till some one open it for him .
Much amuse , I go at once , and he come directly in , after a long stare at me , and a few waving of his plumy tail .
It be evidently the right place , and , follow me into the parlor , he perch himself on the rug , blink at the fire , look round the room , wash his face , and then , lie down in a comfortable sprawl , he burst into a cheerful purr , a if to say , -- `` It 's all right ; the place suit me , and I 'm go to stay . ''
His coolness amuse me very much , and his beauty make me glad to keep him .
He be not a common cat , but , a we afterward discover , a Russian pus .
His fur be very long , black , and glossy a satin ; his tail like a graceful plume , and his eye a round and yellow a two little moon .
His paw be very dainty , and white sock and glove , with a neat collar and shirt-bosom , give him the appearance of an elegant young beau , in full evening dress .
His face be white , with black hair part in the middle ; and whisker , fiercely curl up at the end , give him a martial look .
Every one admire him , and a vainer pus never catch a mouse .
If he saw u look at him , he instantly take an attitude ; gaze pensively at the fire , a if unconscious of our praise ; crouch like a tiger about to spring , and glare , and beat the floor with his tail ; or lay luxuriously outstretched , roll up his yellow eye with a sentimental expression that be very funny .
We name him the Czar , and no tyrannical emperor of Russia ever carry great desolation and terror to the soul of his serf , than this royal cat do to the heart and home of the rat and mouse over whom he rule .
The dear little mouse who use to come out to play so confidingly in my room , live in my best bonnet-box , and bring up their interesting young family in the storeroom , now fell an easy prey to the Czar , who make nothing of catch half a dozen a day .
Brazen-faced old rat , gray in sin , who use to walk boldly in and out of the front door , ravage our closet , and racket about the wall by night , now pause in their revel , and felt that their day be over .
Czar do not know what fear be , and fly at the big , fierce rat that dare to show his long tail on the premise .
He fight many a gallant fight , and slew his thousand , always bring his dead foe to display him to u , and receive our thanks .
It be sometimes rather startle to find a large rat repose in the middle of your parlor ; not always agreeable to have an excited cat bounce into your lap , lug a half-dead rat in his mouth ; or to have visitor receive by the Czar , toss a mouse on the door-steps , like a playful child with it cup and ball .
He be not fond of petting , but allow one or two honored being to cuddle him .
My work-basket be his favorite bed , for a certain fat cushion suit him for a pillow , and , have coolly pull out all the pin , the rascal would lay his handsome head on the red mound , and wink at me with an irresistibly saucy expression that make it impossible to scold .
All summer we enjoy his prank and admire his manly virtue ; but in the winter we lose him , for , ala !
he find his victor in the end , and fell a victim to his own rash daring .
One morning after a heavy snow-fall , Czar go out to take a turn up and down the path .
As he sit with his back to the gate , meditatively watch some dove on the shed-roof , a big bull-dog enter the yard , and basely attack him in the rear .
Taken by surprise , the dear fellow do his best , and hit out bravely , till he be drag into the deep snow where he could not fight , and there so cruelly maltreat that he would have be murder outright , if I have not go to the rescue .
Catching up a broom , I belabor the dog so energetically that he be force to turn from the poor Czar to me .
What would have become of me I do n't know , for the dog be in a rage , and evidently meditate a grab at my ankle , when his master appear and order him off .
Never be a boy well scold than that one , for I pour forth vial of wrath upon his head a I take up my bleeding pet , and point to his wound as indignantly a Antony do to Csar 's .
The boy flee affright , and I bore my poor Czar in to die .
All day he lay on his cushion , patient and quiet , with his torn neck tie up in a soft bandage , a saucer of cream close by , and an afflicted mistress to tend and stroke him with tender lamentation .
We have company in the evening , and my interesting patient be put into another room .
Once , in the midst of conversation , I think I hear a plaintive mew , but could not go to see , and soon forget all about it ; but when the guest leave , my heart be rent by find Czar stretch out before the door quite dead .
Feeling death approach , he have creep to say good-by , and with a farewell mew have die before the closed door , a brave and faithful cat to the end .
He be bury with great pomp , and before his grave be green , little Blot come to take his place , though she never fill it .
Blot 's career be a sad and brief one .
Misfortune mark her for it own , and life be one too many for her .
I saw some boy pelt a wretched object with mud .
I deliver a lecture on cruelty to animal , confiscate the victim , and , wrap her in a newspaper , bore the muddy little beast away in triumph .
Being wash and dry , she turn out a thin black kit , with dirty blue bow tie in her ear .
As I do n't approve of ear-rings , I take hers out , and try to fatten her up , for she be a forlorn creature at first .
But Blot would not grow plump .
Her early wrong prey upon her , and she remain a thin , timid , melancholy little cat all her day .
I could not win her confidence .
She have lose her faith in mankind , and I do n't blame her .
She always hide in corner , quake when I touch her , take her food by stealth , and sit in a forlorn bunch in cold nook , down cellar or behind the gate , mew despondently to herself , a if her woe must find a vent .
She would not be easy and comfortable .
No cushion could allure , no soft beguilement win her to purr , no dainty fare fill out her rusty coat , no warmth or kindness banish the scared look from her sad green eye , no ball or spool lure her to play , or cause her to wag her mortified thin tail with joy .
Poor , dear little Blot !
She be a pathetic spectacle , and her end be quite in keep with the rest of her hard fate .
Trying one day to make her come and be cuddle , she retreat to the hearth , and when I pursue her , mean to catch and pet her , she take a distracted skip right into a bed of hot coal .
One wild howl , and another still more distracted skip bring her out again , to writhe in agony with four burnt paw and a singed skin .
`` We must put the little sufferer out of her pain , '' say a strong-minded friend ; and quench little Blot 's life and suffer together in a pail of water .
I lay her out sweetly in a nice box , with a doll 's blanket fold round her , and , bid the poor dear a long farewell , confide her to old MacCarty for burial .
He be my sexton , and I could trust him to inter my darling decently , and not toss them disrespectfully into a dirt-cart or over a bridge .
My dear Mother Bunch be an entire contrast to Blot .
Such a fat , cosey old mamma you never saw , and her first appearance be so funny , I never think of her without laughing .
In our back kitchen be an old sideboard , with two little door in the low part .
Some bit of carpet be keep there , but we never expect to let that small mansion till , open the door one day , I find Mrs . Bunch and her young family comfortably settle .
I have never see this mild black cat before , and I fancy no one have ever see her three roly-poly , jet-black kit .
Such a confide pus I never meet , for when I start back , surprise , Mrs . Bunch merely look at me with an insinuating purr , and begin to pick at my carpet , a if to say , -- `` The house suit me ; I 'll take it , and pay rent by allow you to admire and pet my lovely baby . ''
I never think of turn her out , and there she remain for some month , with her child grow up around her , all a fat and funny , black and amiable , a herself .
Three jolly kit be never bear , and a more devoted mother never live .
I put her name on the door of her house , and they live on most comfortably together , even after they grow too big for their accommodation , and tail and leg hang out after the family have retire .
I really do hope they would escape the doom that seem to pursue my cat , but they do not , for all come to grief in different way .
Cuddle Bunch have a fit , and fell out of the window , kill herself instantly .
Othello , her brother , be shoot by a bad boy , who fire pistol at all the cat in the neighborhood , a good practice for future gun expedition .
Little Purr be catch in a trap , set for a woodchuck , and so hurt she have to be gently chloroform out of life .
Mother Bunch still remain , and often use to go and sit sadly under the tree where her infant be bury , -- an afflicted , yet resign parent .
Her health decline , but we never have the heart to send her away , and it would n't have do any good if we have try .
We do it once , and it be a dead failure .
At one time the four cat be so wear that my honor father , who do not appreciate the dear , resolve to clear the house of the whole family ; so he pack them in a basket , and carry them `` over the hill and far away , '' like the `` Babes in the Wood . ''
Coming to a lonely spot , he let them out , and return home , much relieve in mind .
Judge of his amazement when the first thing he saw be Mrs . Bunch and her child , sit on the step rest after their run home .
We all laugh at the old gentleman so that he leave them in peace , and even when the mamma alone remain , feeble and useless , her bereavement make her sacred .
When we shut up the house , and go to the city for the winter , we give Mother Bunch to the care of a kind neighbor , who promise to guard her faithfully .
Returning in the spring , one of my first question be , -- `` How be old Pussy ? ''
Great be my anguish when my neighbor tell me that she be no more .
It seem the dear thing pin for her old home , and keep return to it in spite of age or bad weather .
Several time she be take back when she run away , but at last they be tire of fussing over her , and let her go .
A storm come on , and when they go to see what have become of her , they find her frozen , in the old sideboard , where I first discover her with her kit about her .
As a delicate attention to me , Mrs . Bunch 's skin be preserve , and present when the tale be tell .
I keep it some time , but the next Christmas I make it into muff for several doll , who be send me to dress ; and very nice little muff the pretty black fur make , line with cherry silk , and finish off with tiny tassel .
I love the dear old pus , but I know the moth would get her skin if I keep it , and prefer to rejoice the heart of several small friend with doll in full winter costume .
I be sure Mrs . Bunch would have agree with me , and not felt that I treat her remain with disrespect .
The last of my cat be the black of all , and such a wild thing we call him the Imp .
He tumble into the garret one day through a broken scuttle , and take possession of the house from that time forth , act a if bewitch .
He get into the furnace pipe , but could not get out , and keep me up one whole night , give him air and light , food and comfort , through a little hole in the floor , while wait for a carpenter to come and saw him out .
He get a sad pinch in his tail , which make it crook forever after .
He fell into the soft-soap barrel , and be fish out a deplorable spectacle .
He be half strangle by a fine collar we put on him , and be find hanging by it on a peg .
People sit down on him , for he would lie in chair .
No one love him much , for he be not amiable in temper , but bit and scratch if touch , worry the bow off our slipper in his play , and if we do not attend to him at once , he complain in the most tremendous bass growl I ever hear .
He be not beautiful , but very impressive ; be big , without a white hair on him .
One eye be blue and one green , and the green one be always half shut , a if he be wink at you , which give him a rowdy air comical to see .
Then he swagger in his walk , never turn out for any one , and if offend fell into rage fit to daunt the brave soul .
Yes , the Imp be truly an awful animal ; and when a mischievous cousin of ours tell u he want a black cat , without a single white hair on it , to win a wager with , we at once offer ours .
It seem that sailor be so superstitious they will not sail in a ship with a black cat ; and this rogue of a cousin be go to send puss off on a voyage , unknown to any one but the friend who take him , and when the trip be safely over , he be to be produce a a triumphant proof of the folly of the nautical superstition .
So the Imp be deliver to his new master , and sail away pack up in an old fishing-basket , with his head poke out of a hole in the cover .
We wait anxiously to hear how the joke end ; but unfortunately the passage be very rough , his guardian too ill to keep him safe and quiet , so the irrepressible fellow escape from prison , and betray himself by growl dismally , a he go lurch across the deck to the great dismay of the sailor .
They chase , caught , and toss the poor Imp overboard without loss of time .
And when the joke come out , they have the best of it , for the weather happen to improve , and the rest of the voyage be prosperous .
So , of course , they lay it all to the loss of the cat , and be more fix in their belief than ever .
We be sorry that poor old Imp meet so sad a fate , but do not mourn him long , for he have not win our heart a some of our other pet have .
He be the last of the seven black cat , and we never have another ; for I really do feel a if there be something uncanny about them after my tragical experience with Czar , Blot , Mother Bunch 's family , and the martyred Imp .
V. ROSA 'S TALE .
`` Now , I believe every one have have a Christmas present and a good time .
Nobody have be forget , not even the cat , '' say Mrs. Ward to her daughter , a she look at Pobbylinda , purr on the rug , with a new ribbon round her neck and the remains of a chicken bone between her paw .
It be very late , for the Christmas-tree be strip , the little folk abed , the basket and bundle leave at poor neighbor ' door , and everything ready for the happy day which would begin a the clock strike twelve .
They be rest after their labor , while the yule log burn down ; but the mother 's word remind Belinda of one good friend who have receive no gift that night .
`` We 've forget Rosa !
Her mistress be away , but she shall have a present nevertheless .
Late a it be , she will like some apple and cake and a Merry Christmas from the family . ''
Belinda jump up a she speak , and , have collect such remnant of the feast a a horse would relish , she put on her hood , light a lantern , and trot off to the barn .
As she open the door of the loose box in which Rosa be keep , she saw her eye shin in the dark a she lift her head with a startled air .
Then , recognize a friend , she rise and come rustle through the straw to greet her late visitor .
She be evidently much please with the attention , and rub her nose against Miss Belinda gratefully , but seem rather dainty , and poke over the content of the basket , a if a little suspicious , though apple be her favorite treat .
Knowing that she would enjoy the little feast more if she have company while she eat it , for Rosa be a very social beast , Miss Belinda hang up the lantern , and , sit down on an inverted bucket , watch her a she munch contentedly .
`` Now really , '' say Miss Belinda , when tell her story afterwards , `` I be not sure whether I take a nap and dream what follow , or whether it actually happen , for strange thing do occur at Christmas time , a every one know .
`` As I sit there the town clock strike twelve , and the sound remind me of the legend which affirm that all dumb animal be endow with speech for one hour after midnight on Christmas eve , in memory of the animal about the manger when the bless Child be bear . '' '
I wish the pretty fancy be a fact , and our Rosa could speak , if only for an hour , because I be sure she have an interesting history , and I long to know it . '
`` I say this aloud , and to my utter amazement the bay mare stop eat , fix her intelligent eye upon my face , and answer in a language I understand perfectly well , -- '' ` You shall know it , for whether the legend be true or not I feel a if I could confide in you and tell you all I feel .
I be lie awake listen to the fun in the house , thinking of my dear mistress over the sea and feel very sad , for I hear you say I be to be sell .
That nearly break my heart , for no one have ever be so kind to me a Miss Merry , and nowhere shall I be take care of , nurse , and love a I have be since she buy me .
I know I be get old , and stiff in the knee , and my forefoot be lame , and sometimes I 'm cross when my shoulder ache ; but I do try to be a patient , grateful beast .
I 've get fat with good living , my work be not hard , I dearly love to carry those who have do so much for me , and I 'll tug for them till I die in harness , if they will only keep me . '
`` I be so astonish at this address that I tumble off the pail , and sit among the straw star up at Rosa , as dumb a if I have lose the power she have gain .
She seem to enjoy my surprise , and add to it by let me hear a genuine horse laugh , hearty , shrill , and clear , a she shake her pretty head , and go on talk rapidly in the language which I now perceive to be a mixture of English and the peculiar dialect of the horse-country Gulliver visit . ''
` Thank you for remember me to-night , and in return for the goody you bring I 'll tell my story as fast a I can , for I have often long to recount the trial and triumph of my life .
Miss Merry come last Christmas eve to bring me sugar , and I want to speak , but it be too early and I could not say a word , though my heart be full . '
`` Rosa pause an instant , and her fine eye dim a if with tender tear at the recollection of the happy year which have follow the day she be buy from the drudgery of a livery-stable to be a lady 's pet .
I stroke her neck a she stoop to sniff affectionately at my hood , and say eagerly , -- '' ` Tell away , dear , I 'm full of interest , and understand every word you say . '
`` Thus encourage , Rosa throw up her head , and begin with an air of pride which plainly prove , what we have always suspect , that she belong to a good family . ''
` My father be a famous racer , and I be very like him ; the same color , spirit , and grace , and but for the cruelty of man I might have be as renowned a he .
I be a very happy colt , pet by my master , tame by love , and never strike a blow while he live .
I gain one race for him , and promise so well that when he die I bring a great price .
I mourn for him , but be glad to be send to my new owner 's racing-stable and make much of , for people predict that I should be another Goldsmith Maid or Flora Temple .
Ah , how ambitious and proud I be in those day !
Vain of my good blood , my speed , and my beauty ; for indeed I be handsome then , though you may find it hard to believe now . '
And Rosa sigh regretfully a she steal a look at me , and take the attitude which show to advantage the fine line about her head and neck . '' '
I do not find it hard , for we have always say you have splendid point about you .
Miss Merry saw them , though you be a skeleton , when she buy you ; so do the skilful Cornish blacksmith when he shoe you .
And it be easy to see that you belong to a good family by the way you hold your head without a check-rein and carry your tail like a plume , ' I say , with a look of admiration which comfort her as much a if she have be a passe belle . '' '
I must hurry over this part of my story , because , though brilliant , it be very brief , and end in a way which make it the bitter portion of my life , ' continue Rosa . '
I win several race , and great fame be predict for me .
You may guess how high my reputation be when I tell you that before my last fatal trial thousand be bet on me , and my rival tremble in his shoe .
I be full of spirit , eager to show my speed and sure of success .
Alas , how little I know of the wickedness of human nature then , how dearly I buy the knowledge , and how it have change my whole life !
You do not know much about such matter , of course , and I wo n't digress to tell you all the trick of the trade ; only beware of jockey and never bet . '' '
I be keep carefully out of every one 's way for week , and only take out for exercise by my trainer .
Poor Bill !
I be fond of him , and he be so good to me that I never have forget him , though he break his neck year ago .
A few night before the great race , a I be get a good sleep , carefully tuck away in my roomy stall , some one stole in and give me a warm mash .
It be dark , I be half awake , and I eat it like a fool , though I know by instinct that it be not Bill who feed it to me .
I be a confiding creature then , and a all sort of queer thing have be do to prepare me I think it be all right .
But it be not , and that deceit have cause me to be suspicious about my food ever since , for the mash be dose in some way ; it make me very ill , and my enemy nearly triumph , thanks to this cowardly trick . ''
` Bill work over me day and night , that I might be fit to run .
I do my best to seem well and gay , but there be not time for me to regain my lost strength and spirit , and pride alone keep me up .
`` I 'll win for my master if I die in do it , '' I say to myself , and when the hour come prance to my place try to look as well a ever , though my heart be very heavy and I tremble with excitement .
`` Courage , my lass , and we 'll beat in spite of their black trick , '' whisper Bill , a he spring to his place . '' '
I lose the first heat , but win the second , and the sound of the cheering give me strength to walk away without stagger , though my legs shook under me .
What a splendid minute that be when , encourage and refresh by my faithful Bill , I come on the track again !
I know my enemy begin to fear , for I have bear myself so bravely they fancy I be quite well , and now , excite by that first success , I be mad with impatience to be off and cover myself with glory . '
`` Rosa look a if the ` splendid minute ' have come again , for she arch her neck , open wide her red nostril , and paw the straw with one little foot , while her eye shone with sudden fire , and her ear be prick up a if to catch again the shout she hear that day . '' '
I wish I have be there to see you ! '
I exclaim , quite carry away by her ardor . '' '
I wish you have , for I win , I win !
The big black horse do his best , but I have vow to win or die , and I keep my word , for I beat him by a head , and then drop a if dead .
I might as well have die then , people think , for the poison , the exertion , and the fall ruin me for a racer .
My master care no more for me , and would have have me shot if Bill have not save my life .
I be pronounce good for nothing , and he buy me cheap .
I be lame and useless for a long time , but his patient care do wonder , and just a I be able to be of use to him he be kill . '' '
A gentleman in want of a saddle-horse purchase me because my easy gait and quiet temper suit him ; for I be meek enough now , and my size fit me to carry his delicate daughter . ''
` For more than a year I serve little Miss Alice , rejoice to see how rosy her pale cheek become , how upright her feeble figure grow , thanks to the hour spend with me ; for my canter rock her as gently a if she be in a cradle , and fresh air be the medicine she need .
She often say she owe her life to me , and I like to think so , for she make my life a very easy one . ''
` But somehow my good time never last long , and when Miss Alice go West I be sell .
I have be so well treated that I look a handsome and gay a ever , though my shoulder never be strong again , and I often have despondent mood , long for the excitement of the race-course with the instinct of my kind ; so I be glad when , attract by my spirit and beauty , a young army officer buy me and I go to the war .
Ah !
you never guess that , do you ?
Yes , I do my part gallantly and save my master 's life more than once .
You have observe how martial music delight me , but you do n't know that it be because it remind me of the proud hour of my life .
I 've tell you about the sad ; let me relate this also , and give me a pat for the brave action which win my master his promotion , though I get no praise for my part of the achievement . ''
` In one of the hot battle my captain be order to lead his men to a most perilous exploit .
They hesitate , so do he ; for it must cost many life , and , brave a they be , they pause an instant .
But I settle the point , for I be wild with the sound of drum , the smell of powder , the excitement of the hour , and , find myself sharply rein in , I rebel , take the bit between my teeth , and dash straight away into the midst of the fight , spite of all my rider could do .
The men think their captain lead them on , and with a cheer they follow , carry all before them . ''
` What happen just after that I never could remember , except that I get a wound here in my neck and a cut on my flank ; the scar be there still , and I 'm proud of it , though buyer always consider it a blemish .
But when the battle be win my master be promote on the field , and I carry him up to the general a he sit among his officer under the torn flag . ''
` Both of u be weary and wound , both be full of pride at what we have do ; but he get all the praise and the honor , I only a careless word and a good supper than usual . '' '
I think no one know what I have do , and resent the ingratitude of your race ; for it be the horse , not the man , who lead that forlorn hope , and I do think I should have a rosette at least , when others get star and bar for far less dangerous deed .
Never mind , my master know the truth , and thank me for my help by keep me always with him till the sad day when he be shoot in a skirmish , and lay for hour with none to watch and mourn over him but his faithful horse . ''
` Then I know how much he love and thank me , for his hand stroke me while it have the strength , his eye turn to me till it grow too dim for see , and when help come , among the last word he whisper to a comrade be these , `` Be kind to Rosa and send her safely home ; she have earn her rest . '' '' '
I have earn it , but I do not get it , for when I be send home the old mother 's heart be break at the loss of her son , and she do not live long to cherish me .
Then my hard time begin , for my next owner be a fast young man , who ill use me in many way , till the spirit of my father rise within me , and I give my brutal master a grand runaway and smash-up . ''
` To tame me down , I be sell for a car horse ; and that almost kill me , for it be dreadful drudgery to tug , day after day , over the hard pavement with heavy load behind me , uncongenial companion beside me , and no affection to cheer my life . '' '
I have often long to ask why Mr. Bergh do not try to prevent such crowd from pile into those car ; and now I beg you to do what you can to stop such an unmerciful abuse . ''
` In snow-storms it be awful , and more than one of my mate drop dead with overwork and discouragement .
I use to wish I could do the same , for my poor foot , badly shod , become so lame I could hardly walk at time , and the constant strain on the up grade bring back the old trouble in my shoulder bad than ever . ''
` Why they do not kill me I do n't know , for I be a miserable creature then ; but there must be something attractive about me , I fancy , for people always seem to think me worth save .
What can it be , ma'am ? ' ''
` Now , Rosa , do n't be affect ; you know you be a very engaging little animal , and if you live to be forty will still have certain pretty way about you , that win the heart of woman , if not of men .
They see your weak point , and take a money view of the case ; but we sympathize with your affliction , be amuse with your coquettish air , and like your affectionate nature .
Now hurry up and finish , for I find it a trifle cold out here . '
`` I laugh a I speak , for Rosa eye me with a sidelong glance and gently wave the docked tail , which be her delight ; for the sly thing like to be flatter and be a fond of compliment a a girl . ''
` Many thanks .
I will come now to the most interesting portion of my narrative .
As I be say , instead of knock me on the head I be pack off to New Hampshire , and have a fine rest among the green hill , with a dozen or so of weary friend .
It be during this holiday that I acquire the love of nature which Miss Merry detect and like in me , when she find me ready to study sunset with her , to admire new landscape , and enjoy bright summer weather . ''
` In the autumn a livery-stable keeper buy me , and through the winter feed me up till I be quite presentable in the spring .
It be a small town , but through the summer many city people visit there , so I be keep on the trot while the season last , because lady could drive me .
You , Miss Belinda , be one of the lady , and I never shall forget , though I have long ago forgive it , how you laugh at my queer gait the day you hire me . ''
` My tender foot and stiff knee make me tread very gingerly , and amble along with short mince step , which contrast oddly , I know , with my proudly wave tail and high-carried head .
You like me nevertheless , because I do n't rattle you down the steep hill , be not afraid of locomotive , and stand patiently while you gather flower and enjoy the lovely prospect . '' '
I have always felt a regard for you since you do not whip me , and admire my eye , which , I may say without vanity , have always be consider unusually fine .
But no one ever win my whole heart like Miss Merry , and I never shall forget the happy day when she come to the stable to order a saddle-horse .
Her cheery voice make me prick up my ear , and when she say , after look at several showy beast , `` No , they do n't suit me .
This one now have the right air ; can I ride her ? ''
my heart dance within me and I look round with a whinny of delight .
She understand my welcome , and come right up to me , pat me , peer into my face , rub my nose , and look at my foot with an air of interest and sympathy , that make me feel a if I 'd like to carry her round the world . ''
` Ah , what rid we have after that !
What happy hour trot gayly through the green wood , gallop over the breezy hill , or pace slowly along quiet lane , where I often lunch luxuriously on clover-tops , while Miss Merry take a sketch of some picturesque bit with me in the foreground . '' '
I like that , and we have long chat at such time , for she seem to understand me perfectly .
She be never frighten when I dance for pleasure on the soft turf , never chide me when I snatch a bite from the young tree a we pass through sylvan way , never think it a trouble to let me wet my tired foot in babble brook , or to dismount and take out the stone that plague me . ''
` Then how well she ride !
So firm yet light a seat , so steady a hand , so agile a foot to spring on and off , and such infectious spirit , that no matter how despondent or cross I might be , in five minute I felt gay and young again when dear Miss Merry be on my back . '
`` Here Rosa give a frisk that send the straw fly , and make me shrink into a corner , while she prance about the box with a neigh which wake the big brown colt next door , and set poor Buttercup to low for her calf , the loss of which she have forget for a little while in sleep . ''
` Ah , Miss Merry never run away from me !
She know my heel be to be trust , and she let me caper a I would , glad to see me lively .
Never mind , Miss Belinda , come out and I 'll be sober , a befits my year , ' laugh Rosa , compose herself , and add , so like a woman that I could not help smile in the dark , -- '' ` When I say `` year '' I beg you to understand that I be not as old a that base man declare , but just in the prime of life for a horse .
Hard usage have make me seem old before my time , and I be good for year of service yet . ' ''
` Few people have be through as much a you have , Rosa , and you certainly have earn the right to rest , ' I say consolingly , for her little whims and vanity amuse me much . ''
` You know what happen next , ' she continue ; ` but I must seize this opportunity to express my thanks for all the kindness I 've receive since Miss Merry buy me , in spite of the ridicule and dissuasion of all her friend . '' '
I know I do n't look like a good bargain , for I be very thin and lame and shabby ; but she saw and love the willing spirit in me , pity my hard lot , and felt that it would be a good deed to buy me even if she never get much work out of me . '' '
I shall always remember that , and whatever happen to me hereafter , I never shall be a proud again a I be the day she put my new saddle and bridle on , and I be lead out , sleek , plump , and handsome , with blue rosette at my ear , my tail cut in the English style , and on my back Miss Merry in her London hat and habit , all ready to head a cavalcade of eighteen horseman and horsewoman .
We be the most perfect pair of all , and when the troop caracole down the wide street six abreast , my head be the high , my rider the straightest , and our two hearts the friendly in all the goodly company . ''
` Nor be it pride and love alone that bind me to her , it be gratitude as well , for do not she often bathe my foot herself , rub me down , water me , blanket me , and daily come to see me when I be here alone for week in the winter time ?
Did n't she study horse ' foot and shoe , that I might be cure if possible ?
Did n't she write to the famous friend of my race for advice , and drive me seven mile to get a good smith to shoe me well ?
Have not my poor contracted foot grown much well , thanks to the week of rest without shoe which she give me ?
Am I not fat and handsome , and , bar the stiff knee , a very presentable horse ?
If I be , it be all owe to her ; and for that reason I want to live and die in her service . '' '
She do n't want to sell me , and only bid you do it because you do n't want the care of me while she be go .
Dear Miss Belinda , please keep me !
I 'll eat as little a I can .
I wo n't ask for a new blanket , though your old army one be very thin and shabby .
I 'll trot for you all winter , and try not to show it if I be lame .
I 'll do anything a horse can , no matter how humble , to earn my living , only do n't , pray do n't send me away among stranger who have neither interest nor pity for me ! '
`` Rosa have speak rapidly , feel that her plea must be make now or never , for before another Christmas she might be far away and speech of no use to win her wish .
I be much touch , though she be only a horse ; for she be look earnestly at me a she speak , and make the last word very eloquent by prepare to bend her stiff knee and lie down at my foot .
I stop her , and answer , with an arm about her neck and her soft nose in my hand , -- '' ` You shall not be sell , Rosa !
you shall go and board at Mr. Town 's great stable , where you will have pleasant society among the eighty horse who usually pass the winter there .
Your shoe shall be take off , and you shall rest till March at least .
The best care will be take of you , dear , and I will come and see you ; and in the spring you shall return to u , even if Miss Merry be not here to welcome you . ' ''
` Thanks , many , many thanks !
But I wish I could do something to earn my board .
I hate to be idle , though rest be delicious .
Is there nothing I can do to repay you , Miss Belinda ?
Please answer quickly , for I know the hour be almost over , ' cry Rosa , stamp with anxiety ; for , like all her sex , she want the last word . ''
` Yes , you can , ' I cry , a a sudden idea pop into my head .
` I 'll write down what you have tell me , and send the little story to a certain paper I know of , and the money I get for it will pay your board .
So rest in peace , my dear ; you will have earn your living , and may feel that your debt be pay . '
`` Before she could reply the clock strike one , and a long sigh of satisfaction be all the response in her power .
But we understand each other now , and , cut a lock from her mane for Miss Merry , I give Rosa a farewell caress and go away , wonder if I have make it all up , or if she have really break a year 's silence and free her mind .
`` However that may be , here be the tale , and the sequel to it be , that the bay mare have really go to board at a first-class stable , '' conclude Miss Belinda .
`` I call occasionally and leave my card in the shape of an apple , find Madam Rosa live like an independent lady , with her large box and private yard on the sunny side of the barn , a kind ostler to wait upon her , and much genteel society from the city when she be incline for company .
`` What more could any reasonable horse desire ? ''
VI .
LUNCH .
`` Sister Jerusha , it really do wear upon me to see those dear boy eat such bad pie and stuff day after day when they ought to have good wholesome thing for lunch .
I actually ache to go and give each one of 'em a nice piece of bread-and-butter or one of our big cooky , '' say kind Miss Mehitable Plummer , take up her knitting after a long look at the swarm of boy pour out of the grammar school opposite , to lark about the yard , sit on the post , or dive into a dingy little shop close by , where pile of greasy tart and cake lay in the window .
They would not have allure any but hungry school-boys , and ought to have be label Dyspepsia and Headache , so unwholesome be they .
Miss Jerusha look up from her seventeenth patchwork quilt , and answer , with a sympathetic glance over the way , -- `` If we have enough to go round I 'd do it myself , and save these poor delude dear from the bilious turn that will surely take them down before vacation come .
That fat boy be as yellow a a lemon now , and no wonder , for I 've see him eat half a dozen dreadful turnover for one lunch . ''
Both old lady shake their head and sigh , for they lead a very quiet life in the narrow house that stand end to the street , squeeze in between two store , look a out of place a the good spinster would have do among the merry lads opposite .
Sitting at the front window day after day , the old lady have learn to enjoy watch the boy , who come and go , like bee to a hive , month by month .
They have their favorite , and beguile many a long hour speculate on the look , manner , and probable station of the lad .
One lame boy be Miss Jerusha 's pet , though she never speak to him , and a tall bright-faced fellow , who rather lord it over the rest , quite win Miss Hetty 's old heart by help her across the street on a slippery day .
They long to mend some of the shabby clothes , to cheer up the dull discourage one , advise the sickly , reprove the rude , and , most of all , fee those who persist in buy lunch at the dirty bake-shop over the way .
The good soul be famous cook , and have many book full of all manner of nice receipt , which they seldom use , a they live simply and saw little company .
A certain kind of molasses cookie make by their honored mother , -- a renowned housewife in her time , -- and eat by the sister a child , have a peculiar charm for them .
A tin box be always keep full , though they only now and then nibble one , and prefer to give them away to poor child , a they trot to market each day .
Many a time have Miss Hetty felt sorely tempt to treat the boy , but be a little timid , for they be rough fellow , and she regard them much a a benevolent tabby would a party of frisky puppy .
To-day the box be full of fresh cooky , crisp , brown , and sweet ; their spicy odor pervade the room , and the china-closet door stand suggestively open .
Miss Hetty 's spectacle turn that way , then go back to the busy scene in the street , a if try to get courage for the deed .
Something happen just then which decide her , and seal the doom of the bilious tart and their maker .
Several of the young lad be play marble on the sidewalk , for Hop Scotch , Leap Frog , and friendly scuffle be go on in the yard , and no quiet spot could be find .
The fat boy sit on a post near by , and , have eat his last turnover , fell to tease the small fellow peacefully play at his foot .
One be the shabby lame boy , who hop to and fro with his crutch , munch a dry cracker , with now and then a trip to the pump to wash it down .
He seldom bring any lunch , and seem to enjoy this poor treat so much that the big bright-faced chap toss him a red apple a he come out of the yard to get his hat , throw there by the mate he have be playfully thrash .
The lame child eye the pretty apple lovingly , and be prepare to take the first delicious bite , when the fat youth with a dexterous kick send it fly into the middle of the street , where a passing wheel crush it down into the mud .
`` It 's a shame !
He shall have something good !
The scamp ! ''
And with this somewhat confused exclamation Miss Hetty throw down her work , run to the closet , then dart to the front door , embrace the tin box , a if the house be on fire and that contain her dear treasure .
`` Sakes alive , what be the matter with sister ? ''
ejaculate Miss Jerusha , go to the window just in time to see the fat boy tumble off the post a the tall lad come to the rescue , while the cripple go hop across the street in answer to a kindly quavering voice that call out to him , -- `` Come here , boy , and get a cookie , -- a dozen if you want 'em . ''
`` Sister 's do it at last ! ''
And , inspire by this heroic example , Miss Jerusha throw up the window , say , a she beckon to the avenger , -- `` You too , because you stand by that poor little boy .
Come right over and help yourself . ''
Charley Howe laugh at the indignant old lady , but , be a gentleman , take off his hat and run across to thank them for their interest in the fray .
Several other lad follow as irresistibly a fly to a honey-pot , for the tin box be suggestive of cake , and they wait for no invitation .
Miss Hetty be truly a noble yet a droll sight , a she stand there , a trim little old lady , with her cap-strings fly in the wind , her rosy old face shin with good-will , a she deal out cooky with a lavish hand , and a kind word to all .
`` Here 's a nice big one for you , my dear .
I do n't know your name , but I do your face , and I like to see a big boy stand up for the little one , '' she say , beam at Charley a he come up .
`` Thank you , ma'am .
That 's a splendid one .
We do n't get anything so nice over there . ''
And Charley gratefully bolt the cake in three mouthful , have give away his own lunch .
`` No , indeed !
One of these be worth a dozen of those nasty pie .
I hate to see you eat them , and I do n't believe your mother know how bad they be , '' say Miss Hetty , dive for another handful into the depth of the box , which be half empty already .
`` Wish you 'd teach old Peck how you make 'em .
We 'd be glad enough to buy these and let the cockroach pies alone , '' say Charley , accept another and enjoy the fun , for half the fellow be watch the scene from over the way .
`` Cockroach pie !
You do n't mean to say ? ''
cry Miss Hetty , nearly drop her load in her horror at the idea , for she have heard of fricasseed frog and roasted locust , and think a new delicacy have be find .
`` We find 'em in the apple-sauce sometimes , and nail and bit of barrel in the cake , so some of u do n't patronize Peck , '' reply Charley ; and little Briggs the cripple add eagerly , -- `` I never do ; my mother wo n't let me . ''
`` He never have any money , that 's why , '' bawl Dickson , the fat boy , dodge behind the fence a he speak .
`` Never you mind , sonny , you come here every day , and I 'll see that you have a good lunch .
Apples too , red one , if you like them , with your cake , '' answer Miss Hetty , pat his head and send an indignant glance across the street .
`` Cry-baby !
Molly-coddle !
Grandma 's darling ! ''
jeered Dickson , and then flee , for Charley fire a ball at him with such good aim it narrowly escape his nose .
`` That boy will have the jaundice as sure a fate , and he deserve it , '' say Miss Hetty , sternly , a she drop the lid on the now empty box ; for while she be talk the free-and-easy young gentleman have be help themselves .
`` Thank you very much , ma'am , for my cookie .
I wo n't forget to call to-morrow . ''
And little Briggs shake hand with a innocent a face a if his jacket pocket be not bulge in a most suspicious manner .
`` You 'll get your death a cold , Hetty , '' call Miss Jerusha , and , take the hint , Charley promptly end the visit .
`` Sheer off , fellow .
We be no end oblige , ma'am , and I 'll see that Briggs be n't put upon by sneak . ''
Then the boy run off , and the old lady retire to her parlor to sink into her easy-chair , a much excite by this little feat a if she have lead a forlorn hope to storm a battery .
`` I 'll fill both those big tin to-morrow , and treat every one of the small boy , if I 'm spared , '' she pant , with a decided nod , a she settle her cap and compose her neat black skirt , with which the wind have take liberty , a she stand on the step .
`` I 'm not sure it be n't our duty to make and sell good , wholesome lunch to those boy .
We can afford to do it cheap , and it would n't be much trouble .
Just put the long table across the front entry for half an hour every day , and let them come and get a bun , a cookie , or a buttered biscuit .
It could be do , sister , '' say Miss Jerusha , long to distinguish herself in some way also .
`` It shall be do , sister ! ''
And Miss Hetty make up her mind at that moment to devote some of her time and skill to rescue those bless boy from the unprincipled Peck and his cockroach pie .
It be pleasant , as well a droll , to see how heartily the good soul throw themselves into the new enterprise , how bravely they keep each other up when courage show sign of fail , and how rapidly they become convince that it be a duty to provide good food for the future defender and ruler of their native land .
`` You ca n't expect the dear to study with clear head if they be not feed properly , and half the woman in the world never think that what go into child 's stomach affect their brain , '' declare Miss Hetty , a she roll out vast sheet of dough next day , emphasize her remark with vigorous flourish of the rolling-pin .
`` Our bless mother understood how to fee a family .
Fourteen stout boy and girl , all alive and well , and you and I a smart at seventy one and two , a most folk at forty .
Good , plain victual and plenty of 'em be the secret of firm health , '' respond Miss Jerusha , rattle a pan of buns briskly into the oven .
`` We 'd well make some Brighton Rock .
It be go out of fashion , but our brother use to be dreadful fond of it , and boy be about alike all the world over .
Ma 's resate never fail , and it will be a new treat for the little dear . ''
`` S'pose we have an extra can of milk leave and give 'em a good mugful ?
Some of those poor thing look a if they never get a drop .
Peck sell beer , and milk be a deal well .
Shall we , sister ? ''
`` We 'll try it , Jerushy .
In for a penny , in for a pound . ''
And upon that principle the old lady do the thing handsomely , defer the great event till Monday , that all might be in apple-pie order .
They say nothing of it when the lad come on Friday morning , and all Saturday , which be a holiday at school , be a very busy one with them .
`` Hullo !
Miss Hetty have do it now , have n't she ?
Look at that , old Peck , and tremble ! ''
exclaim Charley to his mate , a he come down the street on Monday morning , and espy a neat little sign on the sister ' door , set forth the agreeable fact that certain delectable article of food and drink could be have within at reasonable price during recess .
No cap be at the window , but behind the drawn curtain two beam old face be peep out to see how the boy take the great announcement .
Whoever remember Hawthorne 's half-comic , half-pathetic description of poor Hepsibah Pyncheon 's hope and fear , when arrange her gingerbread ware in the little shop , can understand something of the excitement of the sister that day , a the time draw near when the first attempt be to be make .
`` Who will set the door open ? ''
say Miss Hetty when the fateful moment come , and boys begin to pour out into the yard .
`` I will ! ''
And , nerve herself to the task , Miss Jerusha march boldly round the table , set wide the door , and then , a the first joyful whoop from the boy tell that the feast be in view , she whisk back into the parlor panic-stricken .
`` There they come , -- hundred of them , I should think by the sound ! ''
she whisper , a the tramp of foot come nearer , and the clamor of voice exclaim , -- `` What bully buns ! ''
`` Ai n't those cooky rouser ? ''
`` New stuff too , look first-rate . ''
`` I tell you it be n't a joke . ''
`` Wonder how Peck like it ? ''
`` Dickson sha 'n ' t come in . ''
`` You go first , Charley . ''
`` Here 's a cent for you , Briggs ; come on and trade like the rest of u . ''
`` I 'm so flurried I could n't make change to save my life , '' gasp Miss Jerusha from behind the sofa , whither she have flee .
`` It be my turn now .
Be calm , and we shall soon get use to it . ''
Bracing herself to meet the merry chaff of the boy , a new and try to the old lady a real danger would have be , Miss Hetty step forth into the hall to be greet by a cheer , and then a chorus of demand for everything so temptingly set forth upon her table .
Intrenched behind a barricade of bun , she deal out her ware with rapidly increase speed and skill , for as fast a one relay of lad be satisfied another come up , till the table be bare , the milk-can ran dry , and nothing be leave to tell the tale but an empty water-pail and a pile of five-cent piece .
`` I hope I do n't cheat any one , but I be flurry , sister , they be so very noisy and so hungry .
Bless their dear heart ; they be full now , I trust . ''
And Miss Hetty look over her glass at the crumby countenance opposite , meet many nod and smile in return , a her late customer enthusiastically recommend her establishment to the patronage of those who have prefer Peck 's questionable dainty .
`` The Brighton Rock be a success ; we must have a good store for to-morrow , and more milk .
Briggs drink it like a baby , and your nice boy propose my health like a little gentleman , a he be , '' reply Miss Jerusha , who have venture out before it be too late , and do the honor of the can with great dignity , in spite of some inward trepidation at the astonish feat perform with the mug .
`` Peck 's nose be out of joint , if I may use so vulgar an expression , and our lunch a triumphant success .
Boys know what be good , and we need not fear to lose their custom as long a we can supply them .
I shall order a barrel of flour at once , and heat up the big oven .
We have put our hand to the work and must not turn back , for our honor be pledge now . ''
With which lofty remark Miss Hetty close the door , try to look utterly unconscious of the anxious Peck , who be flatten his nose against his dingy window-pane to survey his rival over pile of unsold pastry .
The little venture be a success , and all that winter the old lady do their part faithfully , find the task more to their taste than everlasting patchwork and knitting , and receive a fair profit on their outlay , be shrewd manager , and rich in old-fashioned thrift , energy , and industry .
The boy revel in wholesome fare , and soon learn to love `` the Aunties , '' a they be call , while such of the parent a take an interest in the matter show their approval in many way most gratify to the old lady .
The final triumph , however , be the closing of Peck 's shop for want of custom , for few besides the boy patronize him .
None mourn for him , and Dickson prove the truth of Miss Hetty 's prophecy by actually have a bilious fever in the spring .
But a new surprise await the boy ; for when they come flock back after the summer vacation , there stand the little shop , brave in new paint and fitting , full of all the old goody , and over the door a smart sign , `` Plummer & Co. '' `` By Jove , the Aunties be bind to cover themselves with glory .
Let 's go in and hear all about it .
Behave now , you fellows , or I 'll see about it afterward , '' command Charley , a he pause to peer in through the clean window at the tempting display .
In they troop , and , tap on the counter , stand ready to greet the old lady a usual , but to their great surprise a pretty young woman appear , and smilingly ask what they would have .
`` We want the Aunties , if you please .
Is n't this their shop ? ''
say little Briggs , bitterly disappoint at not find his good friend .
`` You will find them over there at home a usual .
Yes , this be their shop , and I 'm their niece .
My husband be the Co. , and we run the shop for the aunt .
I hope you 'll patronize u , gentleman . ''
`` We will !
we will !
Three cheer for Plummer & Co. ! ''
cry Charley , lead off three rouser , that make the little shop ring again , and bring two cap to the opposite window , a two cheery old face smile and nod , full of satisfaction at the revolution so successfully plan and carry out .
VII .
A BRIGHT IDEA .
`` No answer to my advertisement , mamma , and I must sit with idle hand for another day , '' say Clara with a despondent sigh , a the postman pass the door .
`` You need n't do that , child , when I 'm suffer for a new cap , and no one can suit me so well a you , if you have the spirit to do it , '' answer her mother from the sofa , where she spend most of her time bewail her hard lot .
`` Plenty of spirit , mamma , and what be still more necessary , plenty of material ; so I 'll toss you up ' a love of a cap ' before you know it . ''
And put her own disappointment out of sight , pretty Clara fell to work with such good-will that even poor , fretful Mrs. Barlow cheer up in spite of herself .
`` What a mercy it be that when everything else be swept away in this dreadful failure I still have you , dear , and no dishonest banker can rob me of my best treasure , '' she say fondly , a she watch her daughter with tearful eye .
`` No one shall part u , mamma ; and if I can only get something to do we can be independent and happy in spite of our loss ; for now the first shock and worry be over , I find a curious sort of excitement in be poor and have to work for my living .
I be so tired of pleasure and idleness I really quite long to work at something , if I could only find it . ''
But though Clara speak cheerfully , she have a heavy heart ; for during the month which have follow the discovery that they be nearly penniless , she have be through a great deal for a tenderly nurtured girl of three-and-twenty .
Leaving a luxurious home for two plainly furnished room , and try to sustain her mother with hopeful plan , have keep her busy for a time ; but now she have nothing to do but wait for reply to her modest advertisement a governess , copyist , or reader .
`` I do wish I 'd be taught a trade , mamma , or some useful art by which I could earn our bread now .
Rich people ought to remember that money take to itself wing , and so prepare their child to face poverty bravely .
If half the sums spent on my music and dress have be use in give me a single handicraft , what a blessing it would be to u now ! ''
she say , thoughtfully , a she sew with rapid finger , unconsciously display the delicate skill of one to whom dress be an art and a pleasure .
`` If you be not so proud we might accept Cousin John 's offer and be quite comfortable , '' return her mother , in a reproachful tone .
`` No ; we should soon feel that we be a burden , and that would be bad than living on bread and water .
Let u try to help ourselves first , and then , if we fail , we can not be accuse of indolence .
I know papa would wish it , so please let me try . ''
`` As you like ; I shall not be a burden to any one long . ''
And Mrs. Barlow look about for her handkerchief .
But Clara prevent the impend shower by skilfully turn the poor lady 's thought to the new cap which be ready to try on .
`` Is n't it pretty ?
Just the soft effect that be so become to your dear , pale face .
Take a good look at it , and tell me whether you 'll have pale pink bow or lavender . ''
`` It be very nice , child ; you always suit me , you 've such charming taste .
I 'll have lavender , for though it 's not so become a pink , it be more appropriate to our fall fortune , '' answer her mother , smile in spite of herself , a she study effect in the mirror .
`` No , let u have it pink , for I want my pretty mother to look her best , though no one see her but me , and I 'm so glad to know that I can make cap well if I ca n't do anything else , '' say Clara , rummage in a box for the desired shade .
`` No one ever suit me so well , and if you be not a lady , you might make a fortune a a milliner , for you have the taste of a Frenchwoman , '' say Mrs. Barlow , add , a she take her cap off , `` Do n't you remember how offended Madame Pigat be when she find out that you alter all her cap before I wear them , and how she take some of your hint and get all the credit of them ? ''
`` Yes , mamma , '' be all Clara answer , and then sit work so silently that it be evident her thought be as busy a her hand .
Presently she say , `` I must go down to our big box for the ribbon , there be none here that I like , '' and , take a bunch of key , she go slowly away .
In the large parlor below stand several trunk and case belong to Mrs. Barlow , and leave there for her convenience , a the room be unlet .
Clara open several of these , and rapidly turn over their content , a if look for something beside pale pink ribbon .
Whatever it be she appear to find it , for , drop the last lid with a decided bang , she stand a moment look about the large drawing-room with such brighten eye it be evident that they saw some invisible beauty there ; then a smile broke over her face , and she run up stair to waken her mother from a brief doze , by cry joyfully , a she wave a curl of gay ribbon over her head , -- `` I 've get it , mamma , I 've get it ! ''
`` Bless the child !
what have you get , -- a letter ? ''
cried Mrs. Barlow , start up .
`` No ; but something good still , -- a new way to get a living .
I 'll be a milliner , and you shall have a many cap a you like .
Now do n't laugh , but listen ; for it be a splendid idea , and you shall have all the credit of it , because you suggest it . ''
`` I 've material enough , '' she continue , `` to begin with ; for when all else go , they leave u our finery , you know , and now we can live on it instead of wear it .
Yes , I 'll make cap and sell them , and that will be both easy and pleasant than to go out teaching and leave you here alone . ''
`` But how can you sell them ? ''
ask her mother , half bewilder by the eagerness with which the new plan be unfolded .
`` That 's the best of all , and I only think of it when I be among the box .
Why not take the room below and lay out all our fine thing temptingly , instead of sell them one by one a if we be ashamed of it ?
`` As I stand there just now , I saw it all .
Mrs. Smith would be glad to let the room , and I could take it for a month , just to try how my plan work ; and if it do go well , why can I not make a living as well a Madame ? ''
`` But , child , what will people say ? ''
`` That I 'm an honest girl , and lend me a hand , if they be friend worth have . ''
Mrs. Barlow be not convince , and declare she would hide herself if any one come ; but after much discussion consent to let the trial be make , though predict utter failure , a she retire to her sofa to bewail the sad necessity for such a step .
Clara work busily for several day to carry into execution her plan ; then she send some note to a dozen friend , modestly inform them that her `` opening '' would take place on a certain day .
`` Curiosity will bring them , if nothing else , '' she say , try to seem quite cool and gay , though her heart flutter with anxiety a she arrange her little stock in the front parlor .
In the bay-window be her flower-stand , where the white azalea , red geranium , and gay nasturtium seem to have bloom their lovely to help the gentle mistress who have tend them so faithfully , even when misfortune 's frost have nip her own bright rose .
Overhead swing a pair of canary in their garlanded cage , sing with all their might , a if , like the London ` prentice-boys in old time , they cry , `` What do you lack ?
Come buy , come buy ! ''
On a long table in the middle of the room , a dozen delicate cap and head-dresses be set forth .
On another lay garland of French flower buy for pretty Clara 's own adornment .
Several dainty ball-dresses , import for the gay winter she have expect to pass , hung over chair and couch , also a velvet mantle Mrs. Barlow wish to sell , while some old lace , well-chosen ribbon , and various elegant trifle give color and grace to the room .
Clara 's first customer be Mrs. Tower , -- a stout florid lady , full of the good-will and the real kindliness which be so sweet in time of trouble .
`` My dear girl , how be you , and how be mamma ?
Now this be charm .
Such a capital idea , and just what be need ; a quiet place , where one can come and be make pretty without all the world 's know how we do it . ''
And greet Clara even more cordially than of old , the good lady trot about , admire everything , just a she use to do when she visit the girl in her former home to see and exclaim over any fresh arrival of Paris finery .
`` I 'll take this mantle off your hand with pleasure , for I intend to import one , and this save me so much trouble .
Put it up for me , dear , at the price mamma pay for it , not a cent less , because it have never be wear , and I 've no duty to pay on it , so it be a good bargain for me . ''
Then , before Clara could thank her , she turn to the head-gear , and fell into rapture over a delicate affair , all blonde and forget-me-not .
`` Such a sweet thing !
I must have it before any one else snap it up .
Try it on , love , and give it a touch if it do n't fit . ''
Clara know it would be vain to remonstrate , for Mrs. Tower have not a particle of taste , and insist on wear blue , with the complexion of a lobster .
On it go , and even the wearer could not fail to see that something be amiss .
`` It 's not the fault of the cap , dear .
I always be a fright , and my dreadful color spoil whatever I put on , so I have thing handsome , and give up any attempt at beauty , '' she say , shake her head at herself in the glass .
`` You need not do that , and I 'll show you what I mean , if you will give me leave ; for , with your fine figure and eye , you ca n't help be an elegant woman .
See , now , how I 'll make even this cap become . ''
And Clara lay the delicate flower among the blonde behind , where the effect be unmarred by the over-red cheek , and nothing but a soft ruche lay over the dark hair in front .
`` There , be n't that good ? ''
she ask , with her own blooming face so full of interest it be a pleasure to see her .
`` Infinitely well ; really become , and just what I want with my new silver-gray satin .
Dear me , what a thing taste be ! ''
And Mrs. Tower regard herself with feminine satisfaction in her really fine eye .
Here a new arrival interrupt them , and Clara go to meet several girl belong to what have lately be her own set .
The young lady do not quite know how to behave ; for , though it seem perfectly natural to be talk over matter of dress with Clara , there be an air of proud humility about her that make them feel ill at ease , till Nellie , a lively , warm-hearted creature , break the ice by say , with a little quiver in her gay voice , -- `` It 's no use , girl ; we 've either get to laugh or cry , and I think , on the whole , it would be best for all party to laugh , and then go on just a we use to do ; '' which she do so infectiously that the rest join , and then begin to chatter as freely a of old .
`` I speak for the opal silk , Clara , for papa have promise me a Worth dress , and I be green with envy when this come , '' cry Nellie , secretly wish she wear cap , that she might buy up the whole dozen .
`` You would be green with disgust if I let you have it , for no brunette could wear that most try of color , and I be rash to order it .
You be very good , dear Nell , but I wo n't let you sacrifice yourself to friendship in that heroic style , '' answer Clara , with a grateful kiss .
`` But the others be blue and lilac , both more try than anything with a shade of pink in it .
If you wo n't let me have this , you must invent me the most become thing ever see ; for the most effective dress I have last winter be the gold-colored one with the wreath of laburnum , which you choose for me , '' persist Nellie , bound to help in some way .
`` I bespeak something sweet for New Year 's Day .
You know my style , '' say another young lady , privately resolve to buy the opal dress , when the rest have go .
`` Consider yourself engage to get up my bridesmaid ' costume , for I never shall forget what a lovely effect those pale green dress produce at Alice 's wedding .
She look like a lily among it leaf , some one say , and you suggest them , I remember , '' add a third damsel , with the dignity of a bride-elect .
So it go on , each do what she could to help , not with condolence , but approbation , and the substantial aid that be so easy to accept when gild by kind word and cheery sympathy .
A hard winter , but a successful one ; and when spring come , and all her patron be fit out for mountain , seaside , or spring , Clara fold her weary hand content .
But Mrs. Barlow saw with anxiety how pale the girl 's cheek have grow , how wistfully she eye the green grass in the park , and how soon the smile die on the lip that try to say cheerfully , -- `` No , mamma , dear , I dare not spend in a summer trip the little sum I have lay by for the hard time that may come .
I shall do very well , but I ca n't help remember the happy voyage we mean to make this year , and how much good it would do you . ''
Watching the unselfish life of her daughter have teach Mrs. Barlow to forget her own regret , inspire her with a desire to do her part , and make her ashamed of her past indolence .
Happening to mention her maternal anxiety to Mrs. Tower , that good lady suggest a plan by which the seemingly impossible become a fact , and Mrs. Barlow have the pleasure of surprising Clara with a `` bright idea , '' a the girl have once surprise her .
`` Come , dear , bestir yourself , for we must sail in ten day to pass our summer in or near Paris .
I 've get commission enough to pay our way , and we can unite business and pleasure in the most charming manner . ''
Clara could only clasp her hand and listen , a her mother unfold her plan , tell how she be to get Maud 's trousseau , all Mrs. Tower 's winter costume , and a long list of small commission from friend and patron who have learn to trust and value the taste and judgment of the young modiste .
So Clara have her summer trip , and come home bright and blooming in the early autumn , ready to take up her pretty trade again , quite unconscious that , while try to make others beautiful , she be make her own life a very lovely one .
VIII .
HOW THEY CAMPED OUT .
`` It look so much like snow I think it would be wise to put off your sleigh party , Gwen , '' say Mrs. Arnold , look anxiously out at the heavy sky and street still drift by the last winter storm .
`` Not before night , mamma ; we do n't mind it be cloudy , we like it , because the sun make the snow so dazzle when we get out of town .
`` We ca n't give it up now , for here come Patrick with the boy . ''
And Gwen run down to welcome the big sleigh , which just then drive up with four jolly lads skirmish about inside .
`` Come on ! ''
call Mark , her brother , knock his friend right and leave , to make room for the four girl who be to complete the party .
`` What do you think of the weather , Patrick ? ''
ask Mrs. Arnold from the window , still undecided about the wisdom of let her flock go off alone , papa have be call away after the plan be make .
`` Faith , ma 'm , it 's an illigant day bar the wind , that 's a thrifle could to the nose .
I 'll have me eye on the childer , ma 'm , and there 'll be no throuble at all , at all , '' reply the old coachman , lift a round red face out of his muffler , and pat little Gus on the shoulder , a he sit proudly on the high seat hold the whip .
`` Be careful , dear , and come home early . ''
With which part caution mamma shut the window , and watch the young folk drive gayly away , little dream what would happen before they get back .
The wind be more than a `` thrifle could , '' for when they get out of the city it blow across the open country in bitter blast , and make the eight little nose almost as red a old Pat 's , who have be up all night at a wake , and be still heavy-headed with too much whiskey , though no one suspect it .
The lad enjoy themselves immensely snowball one another ; for the drift be still fresh enough to furnish soft snow , and Mark , Bob , and Tony have many a friendly tussle in it a they go up hill , or pause to breathe the horse after a swift trot along a level bit of road .
Little Gus help drive till his hand be benumb in spite of the new red mitten , and he have to descend among the girl , who be cuddle cosily under the warm robe , tell secret , eat candy , and laugh at the old boy ' prank .
Sixteen-year-old Gwendoline be matron of the party , and keep excellent order among the girl ; for Ruth and Alice be nearly her own age , and Rita a most obedient young sister .
`` I say , Gwen , we be go to stop at the old house on the way home and get some nut for this evening .
Papa say we might , and some of the big Baldwins too .
I 've get basket , and while we fellows fill them you girls can look round the house , '' say Mark , when the exhaust young gentleman return to their seat .
`` That will be nice .
I want to get some book , and Rita have be very anxious about one of her doll , which she be sure be leave in the nursery closet .
If we be go to stop we ought to be turn back , Pat , for it be begin to snow and will be dark early , '' answer Gwen , suddenly realize that great flake be fast whiten the road and the wind have rise to a gale .
`` Shure and I will , miss dear , as soon a iver I can ; but it 's round a good bit we must go , for I could n't be turn here widout upsettin ' the whole of yez , it 's that drift .
Rest aisy , and I 'll fetch up at the ould place in half an hour , plaze the power , '' say Pat , who have lose his way and would n't own it , be stupid with a sup or two he have privately take on the way , to keep the chill out of his bone he say .
On they go again , with the wind at their back , care little for the snow that now fell fast , or the gathering twilight , since they be go toward home they think .
It be a very long half-hour before Pat bring them to the country-house , which be shut up for the winter .
With difficulty they plough their way up to the step , and scramble on to the piazza , where they dance about to warm their foot till Mark unlock the door and let them in , leave Pat to enjoy a doze on his seat .
`` Make haste , boys ; it be cold and dark here , and we must get home .
Mamma will be so anxious , and it really be go to be a bad storm , '' say Gwen , whose spirit be damp by the gloom of the old house , and who felt her responsibility , have promise to be home early .
Off go the boy to attic and cellar , be oblige to light the lantern left here for the use of whoever come now and then to inspect the premise .
The girl , have find book and doll , sit upon the rolled-up carpet , or peep about at the once gay and hospitable room , now look very empty and desolate with piled-up furniture , shutter window , and fireless hearth .
`` If we be go to stay long I 'd have a fire in the library .
Papa often do when he come out , to keep the book from moulding , '' begin Gwen , but be interrupt by a shout from without , and , run to the door , saw Pat pick himself out of a drift while the horse be gallop down the avenue at full speed .
`` Be jabber , them villains give a jump when that fallin ' branch strike 'em , and out I wint , bein ' tuk unknownst , just thinkin ' of me poor cousin Mike .
May his bed above be aisy the day !
Whist now , miss dear !
I 'll fetch 'em back in a jiffy .
Stop still till I come , and kape them b ` ys quite . ''
With a blow to settle his hat , Patrick trot gallantly away into the storm , and the girl go in to tell the exciting news to the lad , who come whoop back from their search , with basket of nut and apple .
`` Here 's a go ! ''
cry Mark .
`` Old Pat will run half-way to town before he catch the horse , and we be in for an hour or two at least . ''
`` Then do make a fire , for we shall die of cold if we have to wait long , '' beg Gwen , rub Rita 's cold hand , and look anxiously at little Gus , who be about make up his mind to roar .
`` So we will , and be jolly till the blunderbuss get back .
Camp down , girl , and you fellows , come and hold the lantern while I get wood and stuff .
It be so confoundedly dark , I shall break my neck down the shed step . ''
And Mark lead the way to the library , where the carpet still remain , and comfortable chair and sofa invite the chilly visitor to rest .
`` How can you light your fire when you get the wood ? ''
ask Ruth , a practical damsel , who look well after her own creature comfort and be long for a warm supper .
`` Papa hide the match in a tin box , so the rat wo n't get at them .
Here they be , and two or three bit of candle for the stick on the chimney-piece , if he forget to have the lantern trim .
Now we will light up , and look cosey when the boy come back . ''
And produce the box from under a sofa-cushion , Gwen cheer the heart of all by light two candle , roll up the chair , and make ready to be comfortable .
Thoughtful Alice go to see if Pat be return , and find a buffalo-robe lying on the step .
Returning with this , she report that there be no sign of the runaway , and advise make ready for a long stay .
`` How mamma will worry ! ''
think Gwen , but make light of the affair , because she saw Rita look timid , and Gus shiver till his teeth chatter .
`` We will have a nice time , and play we be shipwrecked people or Arctic explorer .
Here come Dr. Kane and the sailor with supply of wood , so we can thaw our pemmican and warm our foot .
Gus shall be the little Esquimaux boy , all dress in fur , a he be in the picture we have at home , '' she say , wrap the child in the robe , and put her own sealskin cap on his head to divert his mind .
`` Here we be !
Now for a jolly blaze , boys ; and if Pat do n't come back we can have our fun here instead of at home , '' cry Mark , well pleased with the adventure , a be his mate .
So they fell to work , and soon a bright fire be light up the room with it cheerful shine , and the child gather about it , quite careless of the storm rag without , and sure that Pat would come in time .
`` I 'm hungry , '' complain Gus as soon a he be warm .
`` So be I , '' add Rita from the rug , where the two little one sit toast themselves .
`` Eat an apple , '' say Mark .
`` They be so hard and cold I do n't like them , '' begin Gus .
`` Roast some ! ''
cry Ruth .
`` And crack nut , '' suggest Alice .
`` Pity we ca n't cook something in real camp style ; it would be such fun , '' say Tony , who have spend week on Monadnock , live upon the supply he and his party tug up the mountain on their back .
`` We shall not have time for anything but what we have .
Put down your apple and crack away , or we shall be oblige to leave them , '' advise Gwen , come back from an observation at the front door with an anxious line on her forehead ; for the storm be rapidly increase , and there be no sign of Pat or the horse .
The rest be in high glee , and an hour or two slip quickly away a they enjoy the impromptu feast and play game .
Gus recall them to the discomfort of their situation by say with a yawn and a whimper , -- `` I 'm so sleepy !
I want my own bed and mamma . ''
`` So do I ! ''
echoed Rita , who have be nod for some time , and long to lie down and sleep comfortably anywhere .
`` Almost eight o'clock !
By Jove , that old Pat be take his time , I think .
Wonder if he have get into trouble ?
We ca n't do anything , and may as well keep quiet here , '' say Mark , look at his watch and begin to understand that the joke be rather a serious one .
`` Better make a night of it and all go to sleep .
Pat can wake u up when he come .
The cold make a fellow so drowsy . ''
And Bob give a stretch that nearly rent him asunder .
`` I will let the child nap on the sofa .
They be so tired of wait , and may as well amuse themselves in that way a in fretting .
Come , Gus and Rita , each take a pillow , and I 'll cover you up with my shawl . ''
Gwen make the little one comfortable , and they be off in five minute .
The others keep up bravely till nine o'clock , then the bit of candle be burn out , the story all tell , nut and apple have lose their charm , and weariness and hunger cause spirit to fail perceptibly .
`` I 've eat five Baldwins , and yet I want more .
Something filling and good .
Ca n't we catch a rat and roast him ? ''
propose Bob , who be a hearty lad and be ravenous by this time .
`` Is n't there anything in the house ? ''
ask Ruth , who dare not eat nut for fear of indigestion .
`` Not a thing that I know of except a few pickle in the storeroom ; we have so many , mamma leave some here , '' answer Gwen , resolve to provision the house before she leave it another autumn .
`` Pickles alone be rather sour feed .
If we only have a biscuit now , they would n't be bad for a relish , '' say Tony , with the air of a man who have know what it be to live on burnt bean-soup and rye flapjack for a week .
`` I saw a keg of soft-soap in the shed .
How would that go with the pickle ? ''
suggest Bob , who felt equal to the big and acid cucumber ever grow .
`` Mamma know an old lady who actually do eat soft-soap and cream for her complexion , '' put in Alice , whose own fresh face look a if she have try the same distasteful remedy with success .
The boy laugh , and Mark , who felt that hospitality require him to do something for his guest , say briskly , -- `` Let u go on a foraging expedition while the lamp hold out to burn , for the old lantern be almost go and then we be do for .
Come on , Bob ; your sharp nose will smell out food if there be any . ''
`` Do n't set the house afire , and bring more wood when you come , for we must have light of some kind in this poky place , '' call Gwen , with a sigh , wish every one of them be safely at home and abed .
A great tramping of boot , slam of door , and shout of voice follow the departure of the boy , as well a a crash , a howl , and then a roar of laughter , a Bob fell down the cellar stair , have open the door in search of food and poke his nose in too far .
Presently they come back , very dusty , cobwebby , and cold , but triumphantly bear a droll collection of trophy .
Mark have a piece of board and the lantern , Tony a big wooden box and a tin pail , Bob fondly embrace a pickle jar and a tumbler of jelly which have be forget on a high shelf in the storeroom .
`` Meal , pickle , jam , and board .
What a mess , and what be we to do with it all ? ''
cry the girl , much amuse at the result of the expedition .
`` Can any of you make a hoe cake ? ''
demand Mark .
`` No , indeed !
I can make caramel and cocoanut-cakes , '' say Ruth , proudly .
`` I can make good toast and tea , '' add Alice .
`` I ca n't cook anything , '' confess Gwen , who be unusually accomplish in French , German , and music .
`` Girls be n't worth much in the hour of need .
Take hold , Tony , you be the chap for me . ''
And Mark disrespectfully turn his back on the young lady , who could only sit and watch the lads work .
`` He ca n't do it without water , '' whisper Ruth .
`` Or salt , '' answer Alice .
`` Or a pan to bake it in , '' add Gwen ; and then all smile at the dilemma they foresee .
But Tony be equal to the occasion , and calmly go on with his task , while Mark arrange the fire and Bob open the pickle .
First the new cook fill the pail with snow till enough be melt to wet the meal ; this mixture be stir with a pine stick till thick enough , then spread on the board and set up before the bed of coal to brown .
`` It never will bake in the world . ''
`` He ca n't turn it , so it wo n't be do on both side . ''
`` Wo n't be fit to eat any way ! ''
And with these dark hint the girl console themselves for their want of skill .
But the cake do bake a nice brown , Tony do turn it neatly with his jack-knife and the stick , and when it be do cut it into bit , add jelly , and pass it round on an old atlas ; and every one say , -- `` It really do taste good ! ''
Two more be bake , and eat with pickle for a change , then all be satisfy , and after a vote of thanks to Tony they begin to think of sleep .
`` Pat have go home and tell them we be all right , and mamma know we can manage here well enough for one night , so do n't worry , Gwen , but take a nap , and I 'll lie on the rug and see to the fire . ''
Mark 's happy-go-lucky way of take thing do not convince his sister ; but a she could do nothing , she submit and make her friend as comfortable a she could .
All have plenty of wrap , so the girl nestle into the three large chair , Bob and Tony roll themselves up in the robe , with their foot to the fire , and be soon snore like weary hunter .
Mark pillow his head on a log , and be sound asleep in ten minute in spite of his promise to be sentinel .
Gwen 's chair be the least easy of the three , and she could not forget herself like the rest , but sit wide awake , watch the blaze , count the hour , and wonder why no one come to them .
The wind blew fiercely , the snow beat against the blind , rat scuttle about the wall , and now and then a branch fell upon the roof with a crash .
Weary , yet excite , the poor girl imagine all sort of mishap to Pat and the horse , recall various ghost story she have hear , and wonder if it be on such a night a this that a neighbor 's house have be rob .
So nervous do she get at last that she cover up her face and resolutely begin to count a thousand , feel that anything be good than have to wake Mark and own she be frighten .
Before she know it she fell into a drowse and dream that they be all cast away on an iceberg and a polar bear be come up to devour Gus , who innocently call to the big white dog and wait to caress him .
`` A bear !
a bear !
oh , boy , save him ! ''
murmur Gwen in her sleep , and the sound of her own distressed voice wake her .
The fire be nearly out , for she have slept longer than she know , the room be full of shadow , and the storm seem to have die away .
In the silence which now reign , unbroken even by a snore , Gwen hear a sound that make her start and tremble .
Some one be come softly up the back stair .
All the outer door be lock , she be sure ; all the boy lay in their place , for she could see and count the three long figure and little Gus in a bunch on the sofa .
The girl have not stir , and this be no rat 's scamper , but a slow and careful tread , steal nearer and nearer to the study door , leave ajar when the last load of wood be bring in .
`` Pat would knock or ring , and papa would speak , so that we might not be scar .
I want to scream , but I wo n't till I see that it really be some one , '' think Gwen , while her heart beat fast and her eye be fix on the door , strain to see through the gloom .
The step draw nearer , pause on the threshold , and then a head appear a the door noiselessly swing wide open .
A man 's head in a fur cap , but it be neither papa nor Pat nor Uncle Ed .
Poor Gwen would have call out then , but her voice be go , and she could only lie back , look , mute and motionless .
A tiny spire of flame sprung up and flicker for a moment on the tall dark figure in the doorway , a big man with a beard , and in his hand something that glitter .
Was it a pistol or a dagger or a dark lantern ?
think the girl , a the glimmer die away , and the shadow return to terrify her .
The man seem to look about him keenly for a moment , then vanish , and the step go down the hall to the front door , which be open from within and some one admit quietly .
Whispers be hear , and then foot approach again , accompany by a gleam of light .
`` Now I must scream ! ''
think Gwen ; and scream she do with all her might , a two men enter , one carry a lantern , the other a bright tin can .
`` Boys !
Robbers !
Fire !
Tramps !
Oh , do wake up ! ''
cry Gwen , frantically pull Mark by the hair , and Bob and Tony by the leg , a the quick way of rouse them .
Then there be a scene !
The boy spring up and rub their eye , the girl hide theirs and begin to shriek , while the burglar laugh aloud , and poor Gwen , quite wear out , faint away on the rug .
It be all over in a minute , however ; for Mark have his wit about him , and his first glance at the man with the lantern allay his fear .
`` Hullo , Uncle Ed !
We be all right .
Got tire of wait for you , so we go to sleep . ''
`` Stop screaming , girl , and quiet those child !
Poor little Gwen be badly frighten .
Get some snow , Tom , while I pick her up , '' command the uncle , and order be soon establish .
The boy be all right at once , and Ruth and Alice devote themselves to the child , who be very cross and sleepy in spite of their fright .
Gwen be herself in a moment , and so ashamed of her scare that she be glad there be no more light to betray her pale cheek .
`` I should have know you , uncle , at once , but to see a strange man startle me , and he do n't speak , and I think that can be a pistol , '' stammer Gwen , when she have collect her wit a little .
`` Why , that 's my old friend and captain , Tom May .
Do n't you remember him , child ?
He think you be all asleep , so creep out to tell me and let me in . ''
`` How do he get in himself ? ''
ask Gwen , glad to turn the conversation .
`` Found the shed door open , and surprise the camp by a flank movement .
You would n't do for picket duty , boy , '' laugh Captain Tom , enjoy the dismay of the lad .
`` Oh , thunder !
I forget to bolt it when we first go for the wood .
Had to open it , the place be so plaguy dark , '' mutter Bob , much disgust .
`` Where 's Pat ? ''
ask Tony , with great presence of mind , feel anxious to shift all blame to his broad shoulder .
Uncle Ed shake the snow from his hair and clothes , and , poke up the fire , leisurely sit down and take Gus on his knee before he reply , -- `` Serve out the grog , Tom , while I spin my yarn . ''
Round go the can of hot coffee , and a few sip brighten up the young folk immensely , so that they listen with great interest to the tale of Pat 's mishap .
`` The scamp be half-seas over when he start , and deserve all he get .
In the first place he lose his way , then tumble overboard , and let the horse go .
He flounder after them a mile or two , then lose his bearing in the storm , pitch into a ditch , break his head , and lay there till find .
The fellow carry him to a house off the road , and there he be in a nice state ; for , be his countryman , they dose him with whiskey till he be ` quite and aisy , ' and go to sleep , forget all about you , the horse , and his distracted mistress at home .
The animal be stop at the cross-roads , and there we find them after a lively cruise round the country .
Then we hunt up Pat ; but what with the blow and too many drop of ` the crayther , ' his head be in a muddle , and we could get nothing out of him .
So we go home again , and then your mother remember that you have mention stop here , and we fit out a new craft and set sail , prepare for a long voyage .
Your father be away , so Tom volunteer , and here we be . ''
`` A jolly lark !
now let u go home and go to bed , '' propose Mark , with a gape .
`` Is n't it most morning ? ''
ask Tony , who have be sleep like a dormouse .
`` Just eleven .
Now pack up and let u be off .
The storm be over , the moon come out , and we shall find a good supper wait for the love and lose .
Bear a hand , Tom , and ship this little duffer , for he 's off again . ''
Uncle Ed put Gus into the captain 's arm , and , take Rita himself , lead the way to the sleigh which stand at the door .
In they all bundle , and after make the house safe , off they go , feel that they have have a pretty good time on the whole .
`` I will learn cooking and courage , before I try camp out again , '' resolve Gwen , a she go jingle homeward ; and she keep her word .
IX .
MY LITTLE SCHOOL-GIRL .
The first time that I saw her be one autumn morning a I ride to town in a horse-car .
It be early , and my only fellow-passenger be a crusty old gentleman , who sit in a corner , read his paper ; so when the car stop , I glance out to see who come next , hop it would be a pleasant person .
No one appear for a minute , and the car stand still , while both driver and conductor look in the same direction without a sign of impatience .
I look also , but all I could see be a little girl run across the park , a girl of twelve or thirteen seldom run nowadays , if any one can see them .
`` Are you wait for her ? ''
I ask of the pleasant-faced conductor , who stand with his hand on the bell , and a good-natured smile in his eye .
`` Yes , ma'am , we always stop for little missy , '' he answer ; and just then up she come , all rosy and breathless with her run .
`` Thank you very much .
I 'm late to-day , and be afraid I should miss my car , '' she say , a he help her in with a fatherly air that be pleasant to see .
Taking a corner seat , she smooth the curly lock , disturb by the wind , put on her glove , and settle her book in her lap , then modestly glance from the old gentleman in the opposite corner to the lady near by .
Such a bright little face a I saw under the brown hat-rim , happy blue eye , dimple in the ruddy cheek , and the innocent expression which make a young girl so sweet an object to old eye .
The crusty gentleman evidently agree with me , for he peep over the top of the paper at his pleasant little neighbor a she sit study a lesson , and cheer herself with occasional sniff at a posy of mignonette in her button-hole .
When the old gentleman catch my eye , he dive out of sight with a loud `` Hem ! ''
but he be peep again directly , for there be something irresistibly attractive about the unconscious lassie opposite ; and one could no more help look at her than at a lovely flower or a playful kitten .
Presently she shut her book with a decided pat , and an air of relief that amuse me .
She saw the half-smile I could not repress , seem to understand my sympathy , and say with a laugh , -- `` It be a hard lesson , but I 've get it ! ''
So we begin to talk about school and lesson , and I soon discover that the girl be a clever scholar , whose only drawback be , a she confide to me , a `` love of fun . ''
We be just get quite friendly , when several young men get in , one of whom star at the pretty child till even she observe it , and show that she do by the color that come and go in her cheek .
It annoy me as much a if she have be my own little daughter , for I like modesty , and have often be trouble by the forward manner of schoolgirl , who seem to enjoy be look at .
So I help this one out of her little trouble by make room between the old gentleman and myself , and motion her to come and sit there .
She understand at once , thank me with a look , and nestle into the safe place so gratefully , that the old gentleman glare over his spectacle at the rude person who have disturb the serenity of the child .
Then we rumble along again , the car get fuller and fuller a we get down town .
Presently an Irishwoman , with a baby , get in , and before I could offer my seat , my little school-girl be out of hers , with a polite -- `` Please take it , ma'am ; I can stand perfectly well . ''
It be prettily do , and I value the small courtesy all the more , because it evidently cost the bashful creature an effort to stand up alone in a car full of stranger ; especially a she could not reach the strap to steady herself , and find it difficult to stand comfortably .
Then it be that the crusty man show how he appreciate my girl 's good manner , for he hook his cane in the strap , and give it to her , say , with a smile that light up his rough face like sunshine , -- `` Hold on to that , my dear . ''
`` Ah , '' think I , `` how little we can judge from appearance !
This grim old soul be a gentleman , after all . ''
Turning her face towards u , the girl hold on to the stout cane , and sway easily to and fro a we bump over the rail .
The Irishwoman 's baby , a sickly little thing , be attract by the flower , and put out a small hand to touch them , with a wistful look at the bright face above .
`` Will baby have some ? ''
say my girl , and make the little creature happy with some gay red leaf .
`` Bless your heart , honey , it 's fond he be of the like o ' them , and seldom he get any , '' say the mother , gratefully , a she settle baby 's dirty hood , and wrap the old shawl round his foot .
Baby star hard at the giver of posy , but his honest blue eye give no offence , and soon the two be so friendly that baby boldly clutch at the bright button on her sack , and crow with delight when he get one , while we all smile at the pretty play , and be sorry when the little lady , with a bow and a smile to u , get out at the church corner .
`` Now , I shall probably never see that child again , yet what a pleasant picture she leave in my memory ! ''
I think to myself , a I catch a last glimpse of the brown hat go round the corner .
But I do see her again many time that winter ; for not long after , a I pass down a certain street near my winter quarter , I come upon a flock of girl , eat their luncheon a they walk to and fro on the sunny side , -- pretty , merry creature , all laughing and chattering at once , a they toss apple from hand to hand , munch candy , or compare cooky .
I go slowly , to enjoy the sight , a I do when I meet a party of sparrow on the Common , and be wonder what would become of so many bud woman , when , all of a sudden , I saw my little school-girl .
Yes , I know her in a minute , for she wear the same brown hat , and the rosy face be sparkle with fun , a she tell secret with a chosen friend , while eat a wholesome slice of bread-and-butter a only a hungry school-girl could .
She do not recognize me , but I take a good look at her a I go by , long to know what the particular secret be that end in such a gale of laughter .
After that , I often saw my girl a I take my walk abroad , and one day could not resist speak to her when I meet her alone ; for usually her mate cluster round her like bee about their queen , which please me , since it show how much they love the sunshiny child .
I have a paper of grape in my hand , and when I saw her come , whisk out a handsome bunch , all ready to offer , for I have make up my mind to speak this time .
She be read a paper , but look up to give me the inside of the walk .
Before her eye could fall again , I hold out the grape and say , just a I have hear her say more than once to a schoolmate at lunch-time , `` Let 's go half . ''
She understand at once , laugh , and take the bunch , say with twinkle eye , -- `` Oh , thank you !
they be beauty ! ''
Then , a we go on to the corner together , I tell her why I do it , and recall the car-ride .
`` I 'd forget all about that , but my conductor be very kind , and always wait for me , '' she say , evidently surprise that a stranger should take an interest in her small self .
I do not have half time enough with her , for a bell rang , and away she skip , look back to nod and smile at the queer lady who have take a fancy to her .
A few day afterward a fine nosegay of flower be leave at the door for me , and when I ask the servant who send them he answer , -- `` A little girl ask if a lame lady do n't live here , and when I say yes , she tell me to give you these , and say the grape be very nice . ''
I know at once who it be , and enjoy the funny message immensely ; for when one lead a quiet life , little thing interest and amuse .
Christmas be close by , and I plan a return for the flower , of a sort , that I fancy my young friend would appreciate .
I know that Christmas week would be a holiday , so , the day before it begin , I go to the school just before recess , and leave a frosted plum cake , direct to `` Miss Goldilocks , from she know who . ''
At first I do not know how to address my nice white parcel , for I never have hear the child 's name .
But after think over the matter , I remember that she be the only girl there with yellow curl hang down her back , so I decide to risk the cake with the above direction .
The maid who take it in -LRB- for my girl go to a private school -RRB- smile , and say at once she know who I mean .
I leave my cake , and stroll round the corner to the house of a friend , there to wait and watch for the success of my joke , for the girl always go that way at recess .
Presently the little hat begin to go bobbing by , the silent street to echo with laughter , and the sidewalk to bloom with gay gown , for the girl be all out in winter color now .
From behind a curtain I peep at them , and saw , with great satisfaction , that nearly all have bit of my cake in their hand , and be talk it over with the most flattering interest .
My particular little girl , with a friend on each arm , pass so near me that I could see the happy look in her eye , and hear her say , with a toss of the bright hair , -- `` Mother will plan it for me , and I can get it do by New Year .
Wo n't it be fun to hang it on the door some day , and then run ? ''
I fancy that she mean to make something for me , and wait with patience , wonder how this odd frolic with my little school-girl would end .
New Year 's Day come and pass , but no gift hung on my door ; so I make up my mind it be all a mistake , and , be pretty busy about that time , think no more of the matter till some week later , a I come into town one day after a visit in the country .
I be fond of observe face , and seldom forget one if anything have particularly attract my attention to it .
So this morning , a I ride along , I look at the conductor , a there be no one else to observe , and he have a pleasant sort of face .
Somehow , it look familiar , and after think idly about it for a minute , I remember where I have see it before .
He be the man who wait for `` little missy , '' and I at once begin to hope that she would come again , for I want to ask about the holiday , remember how `` fond of fun '' she be .
When we come to the South End Square , where I meet her first , I look out , expect to see the little figure run down the wide path again , and quite willing to wait for it a long time if necessary .
But no one be to be see but two boy and a dog .
The car do not stop , and though the conductor look out that way , his hand be not on the strap , and no smile on his face .
`` Do n't you wait for the little girl now ? ''
I ask , feel disappoint at not see my pretty friend again .
`` I wish I could , ma'am , '' answer the man , understand at once , though of course he do not remember me .
`` New rule , perhaps ? ''
I add , a he do not explain , but stand finger his punch , and never mind an old lady , wildly wave her bag at him from the sidewalk .
`` No , ma'am ; but it 's no use wait for little missy any more , because '' -- here he lean in and say , very low , -- `` she be dead ; '' then turn sharply round , ring the bell , put the old lady in and shut the door .
How grieve I be to have that pleasant friendship end so sadly , for I have plan many small surprise for my girl , and now I could do no more , could never know all about her , never see the sunny face again , or win another word from lip that seem make for smile .
Only a little school-girl , yet how many friend she seem to have , make them unconsciously by her gentle manner , generous action , and innocent light-heartedness .
I could not bear to think what home must be without her , for I be sure I be right in believe her a good , sweet child , because real character show itself in little thing , and the heart that always keep in tune make it music heard everywhere .
The busy man of the horse-car find time to miss her , the schoolmate evidently mourn their queen , for when I meet them they walk quietly , talk low , and several wore black bow upon the sleeve ; while I , although I never know her name , or learn a single fact about her , felt the sweetness of her happy nature , and have not yet forget my little school-girl .
X .
WHAT A SHOVEL DID .
As my friend stood by the window , watch the `` soft fall snow , '' I saw him smile , -- a thoughtful yet a very happy smile , and , anxious to know what bring it , I ask , -- `` What do you see out there ? ''
`` Myself , '' be the answer that make me stare in surprise , a I join him and look curiously into the street .
All I saw be a man shovel snow ; and , thoroughly puzzle , I turn to Richard , demand an explanation .
He laugh , and answer readily , -- `` While we wait for Kate and the child , I 'll tell you a little adventure of mine .
It may be useful to you some day .
`` Fifteen year ago , on a Sunday morning like this , I stand at the window of a fireless , shabby little room , without one cent in my pocket , and no prospect of get one .
`` I have go supperless to bed , and spend the long night ask , ` What shall I do ? '
and , receive no reply but that which be so hard for eager youth to accept , ` Wait and trust . '
`` I be alone in the world , with no fortune but my own talent , and even that I be begin to doubt , because it bring no money .
For a year I have work and hop , with a brave spirit ; have write my life into poem and tale ; try a play ; turn critic and review book ; offer my pen and time to any one who would employ them , and now be ready for the hard literary work , and the poor pay , for starvation star me in the face .
`` All my venture fail , and my paper boat freight with so many high hope , go down one after another , leave me to despair .
The last wreck lay on my table then , -- a novel , worn with much journeying to and fro , on which I have stake my last chance , and lose it .
`` As I stand there at my window , cold and hungry , solitary and despairing , I say to myself , in a desperate mood , -- '' ` It be all a mistake ; I have no talent , and there be no room in the world for me , so the quicker I get out of it the good . '
`` Just then a little chap come from a gate opposite , with a shovel on his shoulder , and trudge away , whistle shrilly , to look for a job .
I watch him out of sight , think bitterly , -- '' ` Now look at the injustice of it !
Here be I , a young man full of brain , starve because no one will give me a chance ; and there be that ignorant little fellow make a living with an old shovel ! ' ''
A voice seem to answer me , say , -- '' ` Why do n't you do the same ?
If brain do n't pay , try muscle , and thank God that you have health . '
`` Of course it be only my own pluck and common sense ; but I declare to you I be as much struck by the new idea a if a strange voice have actually speak ; and I answer , heartily , -- '' ` As I live I will try it !
and not give up while there be any honest work for these hand to do . '
`` With sudden energy I put on my shabbiest clothes , -- and they be very shabby , of course , add an old cap and rough comforter , a disguise , and steal down to the shed where I have see a shovel .
It be early , and the house be very quiet , for the other lodger be hard worker all the week , and take their rest Sunday morning .
`` Unseen by the sleepy girl make her fire , I get the shovel and steal away by the back gate , feel like a boy out on a frolic .
It be bitter cold , and a heavy snow-storm have rag all night .
The street be full of drift , and the city look a if dead , for no one be stir yet but milkman , and other poor fellow like me , seek for an early job .
`` I make my way to the West End , and be try to decide at which of the tall house to apply first , when the door of one open , and a pretty housemaid appear , broom in hand .
`` At sight of the snowy wilderness she look dismayed , and with a few unavailing stroke of her broom at the drift on the step , be about to go in , when her eye fell on me .
`` My shovel explain my mission , and she beckon with an imperious wave of her duster to the shabby man opposite .
I plough across , and receive in silence the order to -- '' ` Clear them step and sidewalk , and sweep 'em nice , for our folk always go to church , rain or shine . '
`` Then leave her broom outside , the maid slam the door with a shiver , and I fell to work manfully .
It be a heavy job , and my hand , unused to any heavy tool than a pen , be soon blister ; but I tug away , and presently find myself much stimulate by the critical and approve glance bestow upon me by the pretty girl , take breakfast in the basement with a buxom cook and a friend , who have evidently drop in on her way home from early Mass . .
`` I be a young fellow , and in spite of my late despair , the fun of the thing tickle me immensely , and I laugh behind my old tippet , a I shovel and sweep with a vigor that cause the stout cook to smile upon me .
`` When the job be do , and I go to the low door for my well-earned pay , the maid say , with condescension , a she glance coquettishly at my ruddy face and eye that twinkle under the old cap , I suspect , -- '' ` You can wait here while I run up , and get the money , if master be awake . ' ''
` Ye have n't the heart of a woman , Mary , to kape the poor crater out there when it 's kilt wid the could he be , ' say the buxom cook ; add , in a motherly tone , ` Come in wid yez , my man , and set till the fire , for it 's bitter weather the day . ' ''
` Faix an ' it be , ma 'm , thankin ' ye kindly , ' I answer , with a fine brogue , for a a lad I have play the Irishman with success .
`` The good soul warm to me at once , and , fill a mug with coffee , give it to me with a hearty -- '' ' A hot sup will do you no harrum , me b ` y , and sure in the blessid Christmas time that 's just fore-ninst u , the master wo n't begrudge ye a breakfast ; so take a biscuit and a sassage , for it 's like ye have n't have a mouthful betwixt your lip the day . ' ''
` That I will , ' say I ; ` and it 's good luck and a long life to ye I 'm drinkin ' in this illegint coffee . ' ''
` Bless the b ` y !
but it 's a grateful heart he have , and a blue eye a like my Pat a two pay , ' cry the cook , regard me with increase favor , a I bolt the breakfast which I should have be too proud to accept from any hand less humble .
`` Here the guest ask a question concern Pat , and instantly the mother gush into praise of her boy , tell in a few picturesque word , a only an Irishwoman could do it , how Pat have come to ` Ameriky ' first when thing go hard with them in the ` ould country , ' and how good he be in send home his wage till she could join him .
`` How she come , but could not find her ` b ` y , because of the loss of the letter with his address , and how for a year she wait and watch , sure that he would find her at last .
How the saint have an eye on him , and one happy day answer her prayer in a way that she consider ` aquil to any merrycle ever see . '
For , look up from her work , who should she see , in a fine livery , sit on the box of a fine carriage at the master 's door , but ` her own b ` y , like a king in his glory . ' ''
` Arrah , ye should have see me go up thim step , Katy , and my Pat come off that box like an angel flyin ' , and the way he tuk me in his arm , never mindin ' his illigint coat , and me all dirt a-blackin ' me range .
Ah ` r , but I be a happy crayter that day ! '
`` Here the good soul stop to wipe away the tear that be shin on her fat cheek , and Mary appear with a dollar , ` for master say it be a tough job and well do . ' ''
` May his bed be aisy above , darlin ' , and many thanks , and the compliment of the sayson to ye , lady . '
`` With which grateful farewell I trudge away , well please at the success of my first attempt .
Refreshed and cheer by the kindness of my humble hostess , I take heart , and work away at my next job with redoubled energy , and by the time the first bell rang for church , I have three dollar in my pocket .
My blood dance in my vein , and all my despair seem shovel away with the snow I have clear from other people 's path .
`` My back ache , and my palm be sore , but heart and soul be in tune again , and hurry home , I dress and go to church , feel that a special thanksgiving be due for the lesson I have learn .
`` Christmas garland hung upon the wall , Christmas music roll through the church , and Christmas sermon , prayer , and psalm cheer the heart of all .
But the shabby young man in the back seat find such beauty and comfort in the service of that day that he never forget it , for it be the turning-point of his life . ''
My friend fell silent for a minute , and I sit , contrast that past of his , with the happy present , for he be a prosperous man now , with an honored name , a comfortable fortune , and best of all , a noble wife , and some brave lad to follow in his footstep .
Presently I could not resist ask , -- `` Did you go on shovelling , Dick ? ''
`` Not long , for there be no need of it , thanks to Pat 's mother , '' he answer smile .
`` Come , I must have all the story , for I know it have a sequel ! ''
`` A very happy one .
Yes , I owe to that kind soul and her little story , the turn that Fortune give her wheel .
Nay , rather say , the touch of nature that make the whole world kin .
For when I go home that day , I sit down and make a simple tale from the hint she give , and something of her own humor and pathos must have get into it , for it be accept , and more story solicit , to my great surprise .
`` I write it to please myself , for I be in a happy mood ; and though my room be cold , the sun shone ; though my closet be bare , honest money be in my pocket , and I felt as rich a a king .
`` I remember I laugh at myself a I post the manuscript on Monday morning , call it infatuation , and think no more of it for day , be busy with my new friend , the shovel .
`` Snow be go , but coal remain , and I put in ton of it with a will , for this active labor be the tonic my overwrought nerve need , and my spirit rise wonderfully , a muscle earn the daily bread that brain have fail to win .
`` Ah !
but they bring me something well than bread , dearer than fame ; and to that old shovel I owe the happiness of my life !
The very day I get the letter accept the little story , I be gaily put in my last ton of coal , for I felt that now I might take up the pen again , since in a kitchen I have discover the magic that win listener .
`` Bless my heart !
how I work and how I whistle , I be so happy , and felt so lift above all doubt and fear by the knowledge that my talent be not a failure , and the fact that my own strong arm could keep the wolf from the door !
`` I be so busy that I have not observe a lady watch me from the window .
She have open it to fee the hungry sparrow , and my whistle catch her ear , for it be an air she know , and have hear a certain young man sing before he drop out of her circle , and leave her wonder sadly what have befall him .
`` All this I learn afterward ; then I unconsciously pip away till my job be do , wipe my hot face , and go in to get my money .
To my surprise I be tell to ` go into the dining room , and missis would attend to it . '
`` I go and find myself face to face , not with ` missis , ' but the woman I have love hopelessly but faithfully all that hard year , since I have go away to fight my battle alone .
`` For a moment I believe she do not know me , in my shabby suit and besmirch face .
But she do , and with a world of feeling in her own sweet face , she offer me , not money , but her hand , say in a voice that make my heart leap up , -- '' ` Richard , I be afraid you have go down as so many disappointed young men go when their ambitious hope fail ; but I be so glad , so proud to see in your face that you still work and wait , like a brave and honest man .
I must speak to you ! '
`` What could I do after that but hold the white hand fast in both my grimy one , while I tell my little story , and the hope that have come at last .
Heaven know I tell it very badly , for those tender eye be upon me all the time , so full of unspoken love and pity , admiration and respect , that I felt like one in a glorified dream , and forget I be a coal-heaver .
`` That be the last of it , though , and the next time I come to see my Kate it be with clean hand , that carry her , a a first love-token , the little tale which be the foundation-stone of this happy home . ''
He stop there , and his face brighten beautifully , for the sound of little foot approach , and childish voice cry eagerly , -- `` Papa !
papa !
the snow have come !
May we go and shovel off the step ? ''
`` Yes , my lad , and mind you do it well ; for some day you may have to earn your breakfast , '' answer Dick , a three fine boy come prance in , full of delight at the first snow-fall .
`` These fellow have a passion for shovel which they inherit from their father , '' he add , with a twinkle of the eye that tell Mrs. Kate what we have be talk about .
It be sweet to see with what tender pride she take the hand he stretch out to her , and hold it in both her own , say , with her eye upon her boy , -- `` I hope they will inherit not only their father 's respect for honest work , but the genius that can see and paint truth and beauty in the humble thing of this world . ''
XI .
CLAMS .
A GHOST STORY .
`` I have n't a room in the house , ma'am , but if you do n't mind go down to the cottage , and come up here to your meal , I can accommodate you , and would be glad to , '' say Mrs. Grant , in answer to my demand for board .
`` Where be the cottage ? ''
and I look about me , feel ready to accept anything in the way of shelter , after the long , hot journey from broil Boston , to breezy York Harbor .
`` Right down there , just a step , you see .
It 's all in order , and next week it will be full , for many folk prefer it because of the quiet . ''
At the end of a precipitous path , which offer every facility for accident of all sort , from a sprain ankle to a broken neck , stand the cottage , a little white building with a pretty woodbine over the porch , gay flower in the garden , and the blue Atlantic roll up at the foot of the cliff .
`` A regular ` Cottage by the Sea . '
It will suit me exactly if I can have that front upper room .
I do n't mind be alone , so have my trunk take down , please , and I 'll get ready for tea , '' say I , congratulate myself on my good luck .
Alas , how little I know what a night of terror I be to pass in that picturesque abode !
An hour later , refresh by my tea and invigorate by the delicious coolness , I plunge recklessly into the gayeties of the season , and accept two invitation for the evening , -- one to a stroll on Sunset Hill , the other to a clam-bake on the beach .
The stroll come first , and while my friend pause at one of the fishily-fragrant house by the way , to interview her washerwoman , I go on to the hill-top , where a nautical old gentleman with a spy-glass , welcome me with the amiable remark , -- `` Pretty likely place for a prospeck . ''
Entering into a conversation with this ancient mariner , I ask if he know any legend or story concern the old house all about u .
`` Sights of 'em ; but it aint allers the old place a have the most story concernin ' 'em .
Why , that cottage down yonder aint more 'n fifty year old , and they say there 's be a lot of ghost see there , owin ' to a man 's killin ' of himself in the back bedroom . ''
`` What , that house at the end of the lane ? ''
I ask , with sudden interest .
`` Jes ' so ; nice place , but lonesome and dampish .
Ghosts and toadstool be apt to locate in house of that sort , '' placidly respond the venerable tar .
The dampness scar me more than the goblin , for I never saw a ghost yet , but I have be haunt by rheumatism , and find it a hard fiend to exorcise .
`` I 've take a room there , so I 'm rather interested in know what company I 'm to have . ''
`` Took a room , hev you ?
Wal , I dare say you wo n't be trouble .
Some folk have a knack of see sperrits , and then agin some have n't .
My wife be uncommon powerful that way , but I aint ; my sight 's dreadful poor for that sort of critter . ''
There be such a sly twinkle in the starboard eye of the old fellow a he speak , that I laugh outright , and ask , sociably , -- `` Has she ever see the ghost of the cottage ?
I think I have rather a knack that way , and I 'd like to know what to expect . ''
`` No , her sort be the rappin ' kind .
Down yonder the only ghost I take much stock in be old Bezee Tucker 's .
He kill himself in the back bedroom , and some folk say they 've hear him groanin ' there night , and a drippin ' sound ; he bleed to death , you know .
It be kep ' quiet at the time , and be forget now by all but a few old chap like me .
Bezee be allers civil to the lady , so I guess he wo n't bother you , ma'am ; '' and the old fellow laugh .
`` If he do , I 'll let you know ; '' and with that I depart , for my friend call to me that the beach party be clamor for our company .
In the delight of that festive hour , I forget the croaking of the ancient mariner , for I be about to taste a clam for the first time in my life , and it be a most absorbing moment .
Perched about on the rock like hungry penguin , we watch the jovial cook with breathless interest , a they struggle with refractory frying-pans , fish that stubbornly refuse to brown , steam seaweed and hot stone .
A certain captivating little Margie wait upon me so prettily that I should have be tempt to try a sea porcupine unskinned if she have offer it , so irresistible be her chirping way of say , `` Oh , here 's a perfectly lovely one !
Do take him by his little black head and eat him quick . ''
So beguiled , I indulge recklessly in clam , serve hot between two shell , little dream what a price I be to pay for that marine banquet .
We keep up till late , and then I be leave at my own door by my friend , who inform me that York be a very primitive , safe place , where people sleep with unlocked door , and nothing ever go amiss o'nights .
I say nothing of the ghost , be ashamed to own that I quake a little at the idea of the `` back bedroom , '' a I shut out the friendly face and bolt myself in .
A lamp and match stand in the hall , and light the lamp , I whisk up stair with suspicious rapidity , lock my door and retire to bed , firmly refuse to own even to myself that I have ever hear the name of Bezee Tucker .
Being very tire , I soon fell asleep ; but fry potato and a dozen or two of hot clam be not viands best fit to insure quiet repose , so a fit of nightmare bring me to a realize sense of my indiscretion .
From a chaos of wild dream be finally evolve a gigantic clam , whose mission it be to devour me a I have devour it relative .
The sharp shell gap before me , a solemn voice say , `` Take her by her little head and eat her quick . ''
Retribution be at hand , and , with a despair effort to escape by dive , I bump my head smartly against the wall , and wake up feeling a if there be an earthquake under the bed .
Collecting my scattered wit , I try to compose myself to slumber again ; but ala !
that fatal feast have murder sleep , and I vainly try to lull my wakeful sens with the rustle of woodbine leaf about the window , and the breaking wave upon the beach .
In one of the pause between the ebb and flow of the wave , I hear a curious sound in the house , -- a muffled sort of moan , come at regular interval .
And , a I sit up to make out where it be , another sound catch my attentive ear .
Drip , drip , drip , go something out in the hall , and in an instant the tale tell me on Sunset Hill come back with unpleasant vividness .
`` Nonsense !
it be rain , and the roof leak , '' I say to myself , while a disagreeable thrill go through me , and fancy , aid by indigestion , begin to people the house with uncanny inmate .
No rain have fall for week , and peep through my curtain I saw the big , bright star shin in a cloudless sky ; so that explanation fail , and still the drip , drip , drip go on .
Likewise the moaning , so distinctly now that it be evident the little back bedroom be next the chamber in which I be quake at that identical moment .
`` Some one be sleep there , '' I say , and then recollect that all the room be lock , and all the key but mine in Mrs. Grant 's pocket up at the house .
`` Well , let the goblin enjoy themselves ; I wo n't disturb them if they let me alone .
Some of the lady think me brave to dare to sleep here , and it will never do to own I be scar by a foolish story and an odd sound . ''
So down I lay , and say the multiplication table industriously for several minute , try to turn a deaf ear to the outer world , and curb my unruly thought .
But it be a failure , and , when I find myself say over and over `` Four time twelve be twenty-four , '' I give up affecting courage , and go in for a good honest scare .
As a cheerful subject for midnight meditation I keep think of B. Tucker , in spite of every effort to abstain .
In vain I recall the fact that the departed gentleman be `` allers civil to the lady . ''
I still be in mortal fear lest he might think it necessary to come and apologize in person for `` bothering '' me .
Presently a clock strike three , and I involuntarily give a groan that beat the ghost 's all hollow , so full of anguish be I at the thought of several hour of weary wait in such awesome suspense .
I be not sure at what time the daylight would appear , and bitterly regret not gather useful information about sunrise , tide , and such thing , instead of listen to the foolish gossip of Uncle Peter on the hill-top .
Minute after minute drag slowly on , and I be just think that I should be oblige to shout `` Fire ! ''
a the only mean of relief in my power , when a stealthy step under the window give me a new sensation .
This be a start , not a scare , for the new visitor be a human foe , and I have little fear of such , be possess of good lung , strong arm , and a Roman dagger nearly as big a a carving-knife .
That step break the spell , and , creep noiselessly to the window , I peep out to see a dark figure come up the stem of the tall tree close by , hand over hand , like a sailor or a monkey .
`` Two can play at that game , my friend ; you scare me , and I 'll scare you ; '' and with an actual sense of relief in break the oppressive silence , I suddenly fling up the curtain , and , lean out , brandish my dagger with what I intend to be an awe-inspiring screech , but , owe to the flutter of my breath , the effort end in a curious mixture of howl and bray .
A most effective sound nevertheless ; for the rascal drop a if shot , and , with one upward glance at the white figure dimly see in the starlight , flee a if a legion of goblin be at his heel .
`` What next ? ''
thought I , wonder whether tragedy or comedy would close this eventful night .
I sit and wait , chilly , but valiant , while the weird sound go on within , and silence reign without , till the cheerful crow of the punctual `` cockadoo , '' a Margie call him , announce the dawn and lay the ghost .
A red glow in the east banish my last fear , and , wrap the drapery of my couch about me , I soon lay down to quiet slumber , quite wear out .
The sun shin in my face wake me ; a bell ring spasmodically warn me to hurry , and a childish voice call out , `` Bet-fast be most weady , Miss Wee , '' assure me that sweet little spirit haunt the cottage as well a ghostly one .
As I leave my room to join Margie , who be wait in the porch , and look like a rosy morning-glory half-way up the woodbine trellis , I saw two thing which cause me to feel that the horror of the night be not all imaginary .
Just outside the back bedroom door be a damp place , a if that part of the floor have be newly wash ; and when , goad by curiosity , I peep through the keyhole of the haunted chamber , my eye distinctly saw an open razor lie on a dusty table .
My vision be limit to that one object , but it be quite enough , and I go up the hill brood darkly over the secret hidden in my breast .
I long to tell some one , but be ashamed , and , when ask why so pale and absent-minded , I answer , with a gloomy smile , -- `` It be the clam . ''
All day I hide my suffering pretty well , but a night approach , and I think of another lonely vigil in the haunted cottage , my heart begin to fail , and , when we sit tell story in the dusk , a brilliant idea come into my head .
I would relate my ghost story , and rouse the curiosity of the listener to such a pitch that some of them would offer to share my quarter , in hope of see the spirit of the restless Tucker .
Cheered by this delusive fancy , when my turn come I make a thrilling tale of the night 's adventure , and , have work my audience up to a flatter state of excitement , pause for applause .
It come in a most unexpected form , however , for Mrs. Grant burst out laughing , and the two boy , Johnny and Joe , roll off the piazza in convulsion of merriment .
Much disgust at this unseemly demonstration , I demand the cause of it , and involuntarily join in the general shout when Mrs. Grant demolish my ghost by inform me that Bezee Tucker live , die in , and haunt the tumble-down house at the other end of the lane .
`` Then who or what make those mysterious noise ? ''
I ask , relieve but rather nettle at the downfall of my romance .
`` My brother Seth , '' reply Mrs. Grant , still laugh .
`` I think you might be afraid to be there all alone , so he slip into the bedroom , and I forget to tell you .
He 's a powerful snorer , and that 's one of the awful sound .
The other be the dripping of salt water ; for you want some , and the girl get it in a leaky pail .
Seth wipe up the slop when he come out early in the morning . ''
I say nothing about the keyhole view of the harmless razor , but , feel that I do deserve some credit for my heroic reception of the burglar , I mildly ask if it be the custom in York for men as well a turkey to roost in tree .
An explosion from the boy extinguish my last hope of glory , for as soon a he could speak Joe answer , unable to resist the joke , though tell it betray his own transgression .
`` Johnny plan to be up awful early , and pick the last cherry off that tree .
I want to get ahead of him , so I sneak down before light to humbug him , for I be go a-fishing , and we have to be off by four . ''
`` Did you get your cherry ? ''
I ask , bound to have some of the laugh on my side .
`` Guess I do n't , '' grumble Joe , rub his knee , while Johnny add , with an exult chuckle , -- `` He get a horrid scare and a right good scraping , for he do n't know any one be down there .
Could n't go fish either , he be so lame , and I have the cherry after all .
Served him right , do n't it ? ''
No answer be necessary , for the two lad indulge in a friendly scuffle among the hay-cocks , while Mrs. Grant go off to repeat the tale in the kitchen , whence the sound of a muffled roar soon assure me that Seth be enjoy the joke as well a the rest of u .
XII .
KITTY 'S CATTLE SHOW .
Little Kitty be an orphan , and she live in the poor-house , where she run errand , tend baby , and be everybody 's servant .
A droll , happy-hearted child , who do her best to be good , and be never tire of hop that something pleasant would happen .
She have often hear of Cattle Shows , but have never be to one , though she live in a town where there be one every year .
As October come , and people begin to get ready for the show , Kitty be seize with a strong desire to go , and ask endless question about it of old Sam , who live in the house .
`` Did you say anybody could go in for nothing if they take something to show ? ''
she ask .
`` Yes ; and them that have the best fruit , or cow , or butter , or whatever it be , they get a premium , '' say Sam , chop away .
`` What 's a primmynum ? ''
ask Kitty , forget to pick up chip , in her interest .
`` It 's money ; some get a lot , and some only a dollar , or so . ''
`` I wish I have something nice to show , but I do n't own anything but pus , '' and the little girl stroke the plump , white kitten that be frisk all over her .
`` Better send her ; she 's pretty enough to fetch a prize anywheres , '' say Sam , who be fond of both Kittys .
`` Do they have cat there ? ''
ask the child , soberly .
`` Ought to , if they do n't , for , if cat aint cattle , I do n't see what they be , '' and old Sam laugh , a if he have make a joke .
`` I mean to take her and see the show , any way , for that will be splendid , even if she do n't get any money !
O , pus , will you go , and behave well , and get a primmynum for me , so I can buy a book of story ? ''
cry Kitty , upset her basket in her sudden skip at the fine plan .
Puss turn a somersault , race after a chicken , and then rush up her mistress ' back , and , perch demurely on her shoulder , peep into her face , a if ask if prank like these would n't win a prize anywhere .
`` You be go to take Mr. Green 's hen for him ; ca n't I go with you ?
I wo n't be any trouble , and I do so want to see the fun , '' add Kitty , after think over her plan a few minute .
Now , Sam mean to take her , but have not tell her so yet , and now , be a waggish old fellow , he think he would let her take her cat , for the joke of it , so he say soberly , -- `` Yes , I 'll tuck you in somewhere , and you 'd better put pus into the blackbird 's old cage , else she will get scar , and run away .
You stand it among the chicken-coops , and folk will admire her , I aint a doubt . ''
Innocent little Kitty be in rapture at the prospect , though the people in the house laugh at her .
But she firmly believe it be all right , and make her preparation with solemn care .
The old cage be scrub till the wire shone , then she trim it up with evergreen , and put a bed of scarlet leaf for snowy pus to lie on .
Puss be wash , and comb , and deck with a blue bow on the grand day , and , when she have be persuade to enter her pretty prison , the effect be charm .
A happy little lass be seldom see than Kitty when , dress in her clean , blue check frock , and the old hat , with a faded ribbon , she ride away with Sam ; and behind , among the hen-coops , be Miss Puss , much excite by the clucking and fluttering of her fellow-travellers .
When the show ground be reach , Kitty think the bustle and the noise quite as interesting a the cattle ; and when , after put his poultry in it place , Sam lead her up into the great hall where the fruit and flower be , she begin to imagine that the fairy tale be come true .
While she stand star at some very astonishing worsted-work picture , a lady , who be arrange fruit near by , upset a basket of fine peach , and they roll away under table and chair .
`` I 'll pick 'em up , ma'am , '' cry Kitty , who love to be useful ; and down she go on her hand and knee , and carefully pick up every runaway .
`` What be your name , my oblige little girl ? ''
ask the lady , a she brush up the last yellow peach .
`` Kitty ; and I live at the poor-house ; and I never saw a Cattle Show before , 'cause I do n't have any thing to bring , '' say the child , feel a important with her cat a a whole agricultural society .
`` What do you bring , -- patchwork ? ''
`` O , no , ma'am , a lovely cat , and she be down stair with the hen , -- all white , with blue eye and a blue bow , '' cry Kitty .
`` I want to see her , '' say a little girl , pop her head up from behind the table , where she have bashfully hide from the stranger .
The lady consent , and the child go away together .
While they be go , Sam come to find his little friend , and the kind lady , amuse at the cat story , ask about the child .
`` She aint no friend but me and the kitten , so I think I 'd give the poor little soul a bit of pleasure .
The quarter I 'll get for fetch Green 's hen will get Kitty some dinner , and a book maybe , or something to remember Cattle Show by .
Should n't wonder if I earn a trifle more do chore round to-day ; if so , I shall give it to her for a premium , 'cause I fetch the cat for fun , and would n't like to disappoint the child . ''
As Sam laugh , and rub his rough hand over the joke of surprising Kitty , the lady look at his kind old face , and resolve to give him a pleasure , too , and of the sort he like .
She be rich and generous , and , when her little girl come back , beg her to buy the lovely kitten , she say she would , and put five dollar into Sam 's hand , tell him that be Kitty 's premium , to be use in buy clothes and comfort for the motherless child .
Kitty be quite willing to sell pus , for five dollar seem a splendid fortune to her .
Such a happy day a that be , for she saw everything , have a good dinner , buy `` Babes in the Wood '' of a peddler , and , best of all , make friend .
Miss Puss be bring up by her new mistress , and put on a table among the flower , where the pretty cage and the plump , tricksy kitten attract much attention , for the story be tell , and the little girl 's droll contribution much laugh over .
But the poor-house people do n't laugh , for they be so surprised and delight at this unexpected success that they be never tire of talk about Kitty 's Cattle Show .
XIII .
WHAT BECOMES OF THE PINS .
Miss Ellen be make a new pincushion , and a very pretty one it promise to be , for she have much taste , and spend half her time embroider chair-covers , crochet tidy , and all sort of dainty trifle .
Her room be full of them ; and she often declare that she do wish some one would invent a new sort of fancy-work , since she have try all the old kind till she be tire of them .
Painting china , carve wood , button-holing butterfly and daisy onto Turkish towelling , and make peacock-feather trimming , amuse her for a time ; but a she be not very successful she soon give up try these branch , and wonder if she would not take a little plain sew for a change .
The old cushion stand on her table beside the new one ; which be ready for it trimming of lace and ribbon .
A row of delicate new pin also lay wait to adorn the red satin mound , and in the old blue one still remain several pin that have evidently see hard service .
Miss Ellen be put a dozen needle into her book , have just pick them out of the old cushion , and , a she quilt them through the flannel leave , she say half aloud , -- `` It be very evident where the needle go , but I really do wish I know what become of the pin . ''
`` I can tell you , '' answer a small , sharp voice , a a long brass pin try to straighten itself up in the middle of a faded blue cornflower , evidently prepare to address the meeting .
Miss Ellen star much surprise , for she have use this big pin a good deal lately , but never hear it speak before .
As she look at it she saw for the first time that it head have a tiny face , with silvery hair , two merry eye , and a wee mouth out of which come the metallic little voice that pierce her ear , small a it be .
`` Dear me ! ''
she say ; then add politely , `` if you can tell I should be very happy to hear , for it have long be a great mystery , and no one could explain it . ''
The old pin try to sit erect , and the merry eye twinkle a it go on like a garrulous creature , glad to talk after long silence : -- `` Men make many wonderful discovery , my dear , but they have never find that out , and never will , because we belong to woman , and only a feminine ear can hear u , a feminine mind understand our mission , or sympathize with our trial , experience , and triumph .
For we have all these as well a human being , and there really be not much difference between u when we come to look into the matter . ''
This be such a curious statement that Miss Ellen forget her work to listen intently , and all the needle fix their eye on the audacious pin .
Not a whit abash it thus continue : -- `` I be call ` Granny ' among my friend , because I have have a long and eventful life .
I be hearty and well , however , in spite of this crick in my back , and hope to serve you a good while yet , for you seem to appreciate me , stout and ordinary a I look .
`` Yes , my dear , pin and people be alike , and that rusty darning-needle need not stare so rudely , for I shall prove what I say .
We be divide into class by birth and constitution , and each can do much in it own sphere .
I be a shawl pin , and it would be foolish in me to aspire to the duty of those dainty lace pin make to fasten a collar .
I be content with my lot , however , and , be of a strong make and enterprising spirit , have have many adventure , some peril , and great satisfaction since I leave the factory long ago .
I well remember how eagerly I look about me when the paper in which I live , with some hundred of relation , be hang up in a shop window , to display our glitter rank and tempt people to buy .
At last a purchaser come , a dashing young lady who buy u with several other fancy article , and carry u away in a smart little bag , hum and talk to herself , in what I think a very curious way .
`` When we be take out I be all in a flutter to see where I be and what would happen next .
There be so many of u , I could hardly hope to go first , for I be in the third row , and most people take u in order .
But Cora be a hasty , careless soul , and pull u out at random , so I soon find myself stick up in a big untidy cushion , with every sort of pin you can imagine .
Such a gay and giddy set I never saw , and really , my dear , their way and conversation be quite startle to an ignorant young thing like me .
Pearl , coral , diamond , jet , gold , and silver head , be all around me as well a vulgar brass knob , jaunty black pin , good for nothing a they snap at the least strain , and my own relation , look eminently neat and respectable among this theatrical rabble .
For I will not disguise from you , Miss Ellen , that my first mistress be an actress , and my life a very gay one at the beginning .
Merry , kind , and careless be the pretty Cora , and I be bound to confess I enjoy myself immensely , for I be take by chance with half a dozen friend to pin up the fold of her velvet train and mantle , in a fairy spectacle where she play the queen .
It be very splendid , and , snugly settle among the soft fold , I saw it all , and probably felt that I too have my part ; humble a it be , it be faithfully perform , and I never once deserted my post for six week .
`` Among the elf who go flit about with silvery wing and spangle robe be one dear child who be the good genius of the queen , and be always flutter near her , so I could not help see and love the dear creature .
She dance and sung , come out of flower , swing down from tree , pop up from the low region , and finally , when all the queen 's trouble be over , fly away on a golden cloud , smile through a blaze of red light , and drop rose a she vanish .
`` When the play end , I use to see her in an old dress , a thin shawl , and shabby hat , go limp home with a tired-looking woman who dress the girl .
`` I think a good deal about ` Little Viola , ' a they call her , -- though her real name be Sally , I believe , -- and one dreadful night I play a heroic part , and thrill now when I remember it . ''
`` Go on , please , I long to know , '' say Miss Ellen , drop the needle-book into her lap , and lean forward to listen good .
`` One even the theatre take fire , '' continue the old pin impressively .
`` I do n't know how , but all of a sudden there be a great uproar , smoke , flame , water pouring , people run frantically about , and such a wild panic I lose my small wit for a time .
When I recover them , I find Cora be lean from a high window , with something wrap closely in the velvet mantle that I pin upon the left shoulder just under a paste buckle that only sparkle while I do all the work .
`` A little golden head lay close by me , and a white face look up from the crimson fold , but the sweet eye be shut , the lip be draw with pain , a horrible odor of burnt clothes come up to me , and the small hand that clutch Cora 's neck be all blister with the cruel fire which would have devour the child if my brave mistress have not rescue her at the risk of her own life .
She could have escape at first , but she hear Sally cry to her through the blinding smoke , and go to find and rescue her .
I dimly recall that , and press close to the white shoulder , full of pride and affection for the kind soul whom I have often think too gay and giddy to care for anything but pleasure .
`` Now she be call to the people in the street to put up a ladder , and , a she lean and call , I could see the crowd far down , the smoke and flame burst out below , and hear the hiss of water a it fell upon the blazing wall .
It be a most exciting moment , a we hang there , watch the gallant men fix the long ladder , and one come climb up till we could see his brave face , and hear him shout cheerily , -- '' ` Swing from the window-sill , I 'll catch you . '
`` But Cora answer , a she show the little yellow head that shone in the red glare , -- '' ` No , save the child first ! ' ''
` Drop her then , and be quick : it 's hot work here , ' and the man hold up his arm with a laugh , a the flame lick out below as if to eat away the frail support he stand on .
`` All in one breathless moment , Cora have tear off the mantle , wrap the child in it , bound her girdle about it , and find the gaudy band would not tie , catch out the first pin that come to hand , and fasten it .
I be that pin ; and I felt that the child 's life almost depend upon me , for a the precious bundle drop into the man 's hand he catch it by the cloak , and , put it on his shoulder , go swiftly down .
The belt strain , the velvet tore , I felt myself bend with the weight , and expect every minute to see the child slip , and fall on the stone below .
But I hold fast , I drive my point deeply in , I twist myself round so that even the bend should be a help , and I call to the man , ` Hold tight , I 'm try my best , but what can one pin do ! '
`` Of course he do not hear me , but I really believe my desperate effort be of some use ; for , we get safely down , and be hurry away to the hospital where other poor soul have already go .
`` The good nurse who undo that scorch , drench , and pitiful bundle , stick me in her shawl , and rest there , I saw the poor child lay in a little bed , her burn skilfully care for , and her scattered sens restore by tender word and motherly kiss .
How glad I be to hear that she would live , and still more rejoiced to learn next day that Cora be near by , badly burn but not in danger , and anxious to see the child she have save .
`` Nurse Benson take the little thing in her arm to visit my poor mistress , and I go too .
But ala !
I never should have know the gay and bloom girl of the day before .
Her face and hand be terribly burnt , and she would never again be able to play the lovely queen on any stage , for her fresh beauty be forever lose .
`` Hard day for all of u ; I take my share of trouble with the rest , though I only suffer from the strain to my back .
Nurse Benson straighten me out and keep me in use , so I saw much of pain and patience in that great house , because the little gray shawl which I fasten cover a tender heart , and on that motherly bosom many ache head find rest , many weary creature breathe their last , and more than one unhappy soul learn to submit .
`` Among these last be poor Cora , for it be very hard to give up beauty , health , and the life she love , so soon .
Yet I do not think she ever regret the sacrifice when she saw the grateful child well and safe , for little Sally be her best comforter , and through the long week she lay there half blind and suffering , the daily visit of the little one cheer her more than anything else .
The poor mother be lose in the great fire , and Cora adopt the orphan a her own , and surely she have a right to what she have so dearly bought .
`` They go away together at last , one quite well and strong again , the other a sad wreck , but a good woman for the trial , I think , and she carry comfort with her .
Poor little Sally lead her , a faithful guide , a tender nurse , a devoted daughter to her all her life . ''
Here the pin pause , out of breath , and Miss Ellen shake a bright drop off the lace that lay in her lap , a she say in a tone of real interest , -- `` What happen next ?
How long do you stay in the hospital ? ''
`` I stay a year , for Nurse use me one day to pin up a print at the foot of a poor man 's bed , and he take such comfort in it they let it hang till he die .
A lovely picture of a person who hold out his arm to all the suffering and oppress , and they gather about him to be comfort and save .
The forlorn soul have lead a wicked life , and now lay die a long and painful death , but something in that divine face teach him to hope for pardon , and when no eye but mine saw him in the lonely night he weep , and pray , and struggle to repent .
I think he be forgiven , for when at last he lay dead a smile be on his lip that never have be there before .
Then the print be take down , and I be use to pin up a bundle of red flannel by one of the woman , and for month I lay in a dark chest , meditate on the lesson I have already learn .
`` Suddenly I be take out , and when a queer round pin-ball of the flannel have be make by a nice old lady , I be stick in it with a party of fat needle , and a few of my own race , all with stout body and big head . ''
` The dear boy be clumsy with his finger , and need strong thing to use , ' say the old lady , a she hold the tomato cushion in both hand and kiss it before she put it into a soldier 's ` comfort bag . ' ''
` Now I shall have a lively time ! '
I think , and look gaily about me , for I like adventure , and felt that I be sure of them now .
`` I can not begin to tell you all I go through with that boy , for he be brave a a lion and get many hard knock .
We march , and camp , and fought , and suffer , but we never run away , and when at last a Minie ball come smash through the red cushion -LRB- which Dick often carry in his pocket a a sort of charm to keep him safe , for men seldom use pin -RRB- , I nearly lose my head , for the stuffing fly out , and we be all knock about in a dreadful way .
The cushion and the old wallet together save Dick 's life , however , for the ball do not reach his brave heart , and the last I saw of him a I fell out of the hasty hand that felt for a wound be a soft look in the brave bright eye , a he say to himself with a smile , -- '' ` Dear old mother have n't lose her boy yet , thank God ! '
`` A colored lad pick me up , a I lay shin on the grass , and pin be scarce in those part , give me to his mammy , who keep me to fasten her turban .
Quite a new scene I find , for in the old cabin be a dozen child and their mother make ready to go North .
The men be all away fight or serve the army , so mammy lead the little troop , and they march off one day follow the gay turban like a banner , for she have a valiant soul , and be bind to find safety and freedom for her child at all risk .
`` In my many wandering to and fro , I never make so strange a journey a that one , but I enjoy it , full of danger , weariness and privation a it be ; and every morning when mammy put on the red and yellow handkerchief I be proud to sit aloft on that good gray head , and lead the forlorn little army toward a land of liberty .
`` We get there at last , and she fell to work over a washtub to earn the bread for the hungry mouth .
I have stand by her through all those weary week , and do not want to leave her now , but go off pin a paper round some clean clothes on a Saturday morning . ''
` Now I wonder what will come next ! '
I think , a Thomas Jefferson , or ` Jeff , ' a they call him , go whistle away with the parcel through the street .
`` Crossing the park , he spy a lovely butterfly which have stray in from the country ; catch and pin it on his hat to please little Dinah when he get home .
The pretty creature soon writhe it delicate life away , but it beauty attract the eye of a pale girl hurry along with a roll of work under her arm . ''
` Will you sell me that ? '
she ask , and Jeff gladly consent , wonder what she would do with it .
So do I , but when we get to her room I soon saw , for she pin the impaled butterfly against a bit of blue paper , and paint it so well that it golden wing seem to quiver a they do in life .
A very poor place it be , but full of lovely thing , and I grow artistic with just look about me at the picture on the wall , the flower bloom on plate and panel , bird and insect keep for copy , and gay bit of stuff use a back-grounds .
`` But more beautiful than anything she make be the girl 's quiet , busy life alone in the big city ; for , she be hop to be an artist , and work day and night to compass her desire .
So poor , but so happy , I use to wonder why no one help her and keep her from such hard , yet patient , wait .
But no one do , and I could watch her toil away a I hold the butterfly against the wall , feeling a if it be a symbol of herself , beat her delicate wing in that close place till her heart be break , by the cruel fate that hold her there when she should have be out in the free sunshine .
But she find a good customer for her pretty work , in a rich lady who have nothing to do but amuse herself , and spend much time and money in fancy-work .
`` I know all about it ; for , one day an order come from the great store where her design be often buy , and she be very happy paint some purple pansy upon velvet , and she copy her yellow butterfly to float above them .
`` The poor insect be very dry , and crumble at a touch , so my task there be do , and a my mistress roll up the packet , she take me to fasten it securely , sing a she do so , for every penny be precious .
`` We all go together to the rich lady , and she embroider the flower on a screen very like that one yonder .
I think she would throw me away , I be so battered now , but she take a fancy to use me in various way about her canvas work , and I live with her all winter .
A kind lady , my dear , but I often wish I could suggest to her good way of spending her life than everlasting fancy-work .
She never seem to see the want of those about her , never lend an ear to the poor , or find delight in give of her abundance to those who have little , to brighten their life ; but sigh because she have nothing to do when the world be full of work , and she bless with so many good gift to use and to enjoy .
I hope she will see her mistake some day , and not waste all her life on trifle , else she will regret it sadly by and by . ''
Here the pin pause with a keen glance at Miss Ellen , who have suddenly begin to sew with a bright color in her cheek , for the purple pansy be on the screen that stand before her fire-place , and she recognize the portrait of herself in that last description .
But she do not fancy be lecture by a pin , so she ask with a smile a she plait up her lace , -- `` That be all very interesting , but you have not yet tell me what become of the pin , Granny . ''
`` Pins , like people , shape their own life , in a great measure , my dear , and go to their reward when they be use up .
The good one sink into the earth and turn to silver , to come forth again in a new and precious form .
The bad one crumble away to nothing in crack and dust heap , with no hope of salvation , unless some human hand lift them up and give them a chance to try again .
Some be lazy , and slip out of sight to escape service , some be too sharp , and prick and scratch wherever they be .
Others be poor , weak thing , who bend up and lose their head as soon a they be use .
Some obtrude themselves on all occasion , and some be never to be find in time of need .
All have the choice to wear out or to rust out .
I choose the former , and have have a useful , happy life so far .
I 'm not as straight a I once be , but I 'm bright still , my point be sharp , my head firm , and age have not weaken me much , I hope , but make me wiser , good , and more contented to do my duty wherever I be , than when I leave my native paper long ago . ''
Before Miss Ellen could express her respect for the worthy old pin , a dismal groan be hear from the blue cushion , and a small voice croak aloud , -- `` Alas , ala , I choose to rust out , and here I be , a miserable , worthless thing , whom no one can use or care for .
Lift the ruffle , and behold a sad contrast to the faithful , honest , happy Granny , who have tell u such a varied tale . ''
`` Bless me , what possess everything to-day ! ''
exclaim Miss Ellen , look under the frill of the old cushion to see who be speak now .
There to be sure she find a pin hide away , and so rusty that she could hardly pull it out .
But it come creak forth at the third tug , and when it be set up beside Granny , she cry out in her cheery way , -- `` Try Dr. Emery , he can cure most case of rust , and it be never too late to mend , neighbor . ''
`` Too late for me ! ''
sigh the new comer .
`` The rust of idleness have eat into my vitals while I lay in my silken bed , and my chance be go forever .
I be bright , and strong , and sharp once , but I fear work and worry , and I hide , grow duller , dimmer , and more useless every day .
I be good for nothing , throw me away , and let the black pin mourn for a wasted life . ''
`` No , '' say Miss Ellen , `` you be not useless , for you two shall sit together in my new cushion , a warning to me , as well a to the other pin , to choose the right way in time , and wear out with do our duty , rather than rust out a so many do .
Thank you , Granny , for your little lecture .
I will not forget it , but go at once and find that poor girl , and help her all I can .
Rest here , you good old soul , and teach these little thing to follow your example . ''
As she speak , Miss Ellen set the two pin in the middle of the red satin cushion , stick the small pin round them , and hasten to put on her shawl l something should prevent her from go .
`` Take me with you ; I 'm not tire , I love to work !
use me , dear mistress , and let me help in the good work ! ''
cry Granny , with a lively skip that send her out upon the bureau .
So Miss Ellen pin her shawl with the old pin instead of the fine brooch she have in her hand , and they go gaily away together , leave the rusty one to bemoan itself , and all the little one to privately resolve that they would not hide away from care and labor , but take their share bravely and have a good record to show when they go , at last where the good pin go .
THE END .
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS .
LITTLE MEN ; OR , LIFE AT PLUMFIELD WITH JO 'S BOYS .
Price , $ 1.50 .
-LSB- Illustration : '' ` I 'm not hurt , all right in a minute , ' he say , sit up , a little pale and dizzy , a the boy gather round him , full of admiration and alarm . ''
-- PAGE 251 . -RSB-
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS WORK : A STORY OF EXPERIENCE .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- `` An endless significance lie in work ; in idleness alone be there perpetual despair . ''
-- CARLYLE .
PRICE , $ 1.75 .
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS .
ROSE IN BLOOM .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- A SEQUEL TO `` EIGHT COUSINS . ''
Price $ 1.50 .
* * * * * AUNT JO 'S SCRAP-BAG .
CUPID AND CHOW-CHOW , ETC . .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- BY LOUISA M. ALCOTT , AUTHOR OF `` LITTLE WOMEN , '' `` AN OLD-FASHIONED GIRL , '' `` LITTLE MEN , '' `` HOSPITAL SKETCHES . ''
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Sing , Tessa ; sing ! ''
cry Tommo , twang away with all his might .
-- PAGE 47 . -RSB-
AUNT JO 'S SCRAP-BAG : Containing `` My Boys , '' `` Shawl-Straps , '' `` Cupid and Chow-Chow , '' `` My Girls , '' `` Jimmy 's Cruise in the Pinafore . ''
5 vols .
Price of each , $ 1.00 .
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS .
-LSB- Illustration : `` One hand stir gruel for sick America , and the other hug baby Africa . ''
-- PAGE 76 . -RSB-
HOSPITAL SKETCHES .
Price , $ 1.50 .
* * * * * MICE AT PLAY .
-LSB- Illustration : `` I pull it full of water , and then I poke the pipe end into her ear , and then I let it fly . '' -RSB-
`` WHEN THE CAT 'S AWAY , THE MICE WILL PLAY . ''
A STORY FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY .
By NEIL FOREST .
Price $ 1.50 .
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- AN OLD-FASHIONED GIRL .
PRICE $ 1.50 .
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS .
LITTLE WOMEN ; OR , MEG , JO , BETH , AND AMY .
Parts First and Second .
Price of each , $ 1.50 .
-LSB- Illustration : JO IN A VORTEX .
-- Every few week she would shut herself up in her room , put on her scribble suit , and `` fall into a vortex , '' a she express it .
-- PAGE 44 . -RSB-
* * * * * SUSAN COOLIDGE 'S POPULAR BOOKS .
-LSB- Illustration : NANNY 'S SUBSTITUTE .
Nanny at the Fair , take order and carry tray .
-- PAGE 171 . -RSB-
MISCHIEF 'S THANKSGIVING , AND OTHER STORIES .
WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY ADDIE LEDYARD .
One handsome square 16mo volume , bound in cloth , black and gilt letter .
Price $ 1.50 .
* * * * * BOB BROWN 'S BOY-BOOK .
-LSB- Illustration : `` WILL BRADLEY AND I. '' -RSB- WE BOYS .
Written by one of u for the amusement of Pa 's and Ma 's in general , Aunt Lovisa in particular .
PRICE $ 1.00 .
* * * * * H. H. 'S YOUNG FOLKS ' BOOK .
BITS OF TALK , IN VERSE AND PROSE , FOR YOUNG FOLKS .
BY H. H. , AUTHOR OF `` BITS OF TALK ABOUT HOME MATTERS , '' `` BITS OF TRAVEL , '' `` VERSES . ''
-LSB- Illustration : '' -- in all the lands No such morning-glory . ''
-- PAGE 133 . -RSB-
PRICE $ 1.00 .
* * * * * JOLLY GOOD TIMES ; -LSB- Illustration -RSB- OR , CHILD LIFE ON A FARM .
BY P. THORNE .
Price $ 1.25 .
* * * * * LOUISE CHANDLER MOULTON 'S STORIES .
-LSB- Illustration : JUST A LITTLE BIT OF CHRISTMAS .
-- PAGE 153 . -RSB-
BED-TIME STORIES .
MORE BED-TIME STORIES .
With Illustrations by Addie Ledyard .
Two handsome square 16mo volume , bound in cloth , black and gilt letter .
Price , $ 1.50 each .
* * * * * HAMERTON 'S BOY-BOOK .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- HARRY BLOUNT .
Passages in a Boy 's Life on Land and Sea .
By PHILIP GILBERT HAMERTON .
Price $ 1.50 .
* * * * * SUSAN COOLIDGE 'S POPULAR BOOKS .
-LSB- Illustration : ENTERING PARADISE .
-- PAGE 23 .
So in they march , Katy and Cecy head the procession , and Dorry , with his great trail bunch of bough , bring up the rear . -RSB-
WHAT KATY DID .
With Illustrations by Addie Ledyard .
One handsome , square 16mo volume , bound in cloth , black and gilt letter .
Price , $ 1.50 .
These book be sell by all bookseller and newsdealer everywhere .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Aunt_Jo's_Scrap-Bag.txt.out
MY BOYS .
Feeling that I have be unusually fortunate in my knowledge of a choice and please variety of this least appreciated portion of the human race , I have a fancy to record some of my experience , hop that it may awaken an interest in other mind , and cause other people to cultivate the delightful , but too often neglected boy , who now run to waste , so to speak .
I have often wonder what they think of the peculiar treatment they receive , even at the hand of their near friend .
While they be rosy , roly-poly little fellow they be pet and praise , adorn and adore , till it be a miracle that they be not utterly ruin .
But the moment they outgrow their babyhood their trial begin , and they be regard a nuisance till they be twenty-one , when they be again receive into favor .
Yet that very time of neglect be the period when they most need all manner of help , and ought to have them .
I like boy and oyster raw ; so , though good manner be always please , I do n't mind the rough outside burr which repel most people , and perhaps that be the reason why the burr open and let me see the soft lining and taste the sweet nut hidden inside .
My first well-beloved boy be a certain Frank , to whom I cling at the age of seven with a devotion which I fear he do not appreciate .
There be six girl in the house , but I would have nothing to say to them , prefer to tag after Frank , and perfectly happy when he allow me to play with him .
I regret to say that the small youth be something of a tyrant , and one of his favorite amusement be try to make me cry by slap my hand with book , hoop-sticks , shoe , anything that come along capable of give a good stinging blow .
I believe I endure these mark of friendship with the fortitude of a young Indian , and felt fully repay for a blistered palm by hear Frank tell the other boy , ` She 's a brave little thing , and you ca n't make her cry . '
My chief joy be in romp with him in the long gallery of a piano manufactory behind our house .
What bliss it be to mount one of the car on which the workman roll heavy load from room to room , and to go thunder down the inclined plain , regardless of the crash that usually await u at the bottom !
If I could have play foot-ball on the Common with my Frank and Billy Babcock , life could have offer me no great joy at that period .
As the prejudice of society forbid this sport , I revenge myself by drive hoop all around the mall without stopping , which the boy could not do .
I can remember certain happy evening , when we snuggle in sofa corner and plan trick and eat steal goody , and sometimes Frank would put his curly head in my lap and let me stroke it when he be tire .
What the girl do I do n't recollect ; their domestic play be not to my taste , and the only figure that stand out from the dimness of the past be that jolly boy with a twinkle eye .
This memory would be quite radiant but for one sad thing -- a deed that cut me to the soul then , and which I have never quite forgive in all these year .
On one occasion I do something very naughty , and when call up for judgment flee to the dining-room , lock the door , and from my stronghold defy the whole world .
I could have make my own term , for it be near dinner time and the family must eat ; but , ala for the treachery of the human heart !
Frank betray me .
He climb in at the window , unlock the door , and deliver me up to the foe .
Nay , he even defend the base act , and help bear the struggle culprit to imprisonment .
That nearly break my heart , for I believe he would stand by me as staunchly a I always stand by him .
It be a sad blow , and I could n't love or trust him any more .
Peanuts and candy , ginger-snaps and car-rides be unavailing ; even foot-ball could not reunite the broken friendship , and to this day I recollect the pang that enter my little heart when I lose my faith in the loyalty of my first boy .
The second attachment be of quite a different sort , and have a happier end .
At the mature age of ten , I leave home for my first visit to a family of gay and kindly people in -- well why not say right out ?
-- Providence .
There be no child , and at first I do not mind this , a every one pet me , especially one of the young men name Christopher .
So kind and patient , yet so merry be this good Christy that I take him for my private and particular boy , and love him dearly ; for he get me out of innumerable scrape , and never be tire of amuse the restless little girl who keep the family in a fever of anxiety by her prank .
He never laugh at her mishap and mistake , never play trick upon her like a certain William , who compose the most try nickname , and wickedly goad the wild visitor into all manner of naughtiness .
Christy stand up for her through everything ; let her ride the cow , fee the pig , bang on the piano , and race all over the spice mill , feast on cinnamon and clove ; bring her down from housetop and fish her out of brook ; never scold , and never seem tired of the troublesome friendship of little Torment .
In a week I have exhaust every amusement and be desperately homesick .
It have always be my opinion that I should have be speedily restore to the bosom of my family but for Christy , and but for him I should assuredly have run away before the second week be out .
He keep me , and in the hour of my disgrace stood by me like a man and a brother .
One afternoon , inspire by a spirit of benevolence , enthusiastic but short-sighted , I collect several poor child in the barn , and regale them on cake and fig , help myself freely to the treasure of the pantry without ask leave , mean to explain afterward .
Being discover before the supply be entirely exhaust , the patience of the long-suffering matron give out , and I be order up to the garret to reflect upon my sin , and the please prospect of be send home with the character of the bad child ever know .
My suffering be deep a I sit upon a fuzzy little trunk all alone in the dull garret , think how hard it be to do right , and wonder why I be scold for feed the poor when we be expressly bid to do so .
I felt myself an outcast , and bewail the disgrace I have bring upon my family .
Nobody could possibly love such a bad child ; and if the mouse be to come and eat me then and there --  la Bishop Hatto -- it would only be a relief to my friend .
At this dark moment I hear Christy say below , ` She mean it kindly , so I would n't mind , Fanny ; ' and then up come my boy full of sympathy and comfort .
Seeing the tragic expression of my face , he say not a word , but , sit down in an old chair , take me on his knee and hold me close and quietly , let the action speak for itself .
It do most eloquently ; for the kind arm seem to take me back from that dreadful exile , and the friendly face to assure me without word that I have not sin beyond forgiveness .
I have not shed a tear before , but now I cry tempestuously , and clung to him like a shipwrecked little mariner in a storm .
Neither spoke , but he hold me fast and let me cry myself to sleep ; for , when the shower be over , a pensive peace fell upon me , and the dim old garret seem not a prison , but a haven of refuge , since my boy come to share it with me .
How long I sleep I do n't know , but it must have be an hour , at least ; yet my good Christy never stir , only wait patiently till I wake up in the twilight , and be not afraid because he be there .
He take me down as meek a a mouse , and keep me by him all that try evening , screen me from joke , rebuke , and sober look ; and when I go to bed he come up to kiss me , and to assure me that this awful circumstance should not be report at home .
This take a load off my heart , and I remember fervently thank him , and tell him I never would forget it .
I never have , though he die long ago , and others have probably forget all about the naughty prank .
I often long to ask him how he know the sure way to win a child 's heart by the patience , sympathy , and tender little act that have keep his memory green for nearly thirty year .
Cy be a comrade after my own heart , and for a summer or two we keep the neighbourhood in a ferment by our adventure and hair-breadth escape .
I think I never know a boy so full of mischief , and my opportunity of judge have be manifold .
He do not get into scrape himself , but possess a splendid talent for delude others into them , and then morally remark , ` There , I tell you so ! '
His way of say ` You dars ` nt do this or that ' be like fire to powder ; and why I still live in the possession of all my limb and sens be a miracle to those who know my youthful friendship with Cy .
It be he who incite me to jump off of the high beam in the barn , to be borne home on a board with a pair of sprained ankle .
It be he who dare me to rub my eye with red pepper , and then sympathisingly lead me home blind and roar with pain .
It be he who solemnly assure me that all the little pig would die in agony if their tail be not cut off , and win me to hold thirteen little squealer while the operation be perform .
Those thirteen innocent pink tail haunt me yet , and the memory of that deed have give me a truly Jewish aversion to pork .
I do not know him long , but he be a kindred soul , and must have a place in my list of boy .
He be a big , brown man now , and , have do his part in the war , be at work on his farm .
We meet sometimes , and though we try to be dignify and proper , it be quite impossible ; there be a sly twinkle in Cy 's eye that upset my gravity , and we always burst out laughing at the memory of our early frolic .
My Augustus !
oh , my Augustus !
my first little lover , and the most romantic of my boy .
At fifteen I meet this charm youth , and think I have find my fate .
It be at a spell school in a little country town where I , a a stranger and visitor from the city , be an object of interest .
Painfully conscious of this fact , I sit in a corner try to look easy and elegant , with a large red bow under my chin , and a carnelian ring in full view .
Among the boy and girl who frolic about me , I saw one lad of seventeen with ` large blue eye , a noble brow , and a beautiful straight nose , ' a I describe him in a letter to my sister .
This attractive youth have a certain air of refinement and ease of manner that the others lack ; and when I find he be the minister 's son , I felt that I might admire him without loss of dignity .
` Imagine my sensation , ' a Miss Burney 's Evelina say , when this boy come and talk to me , a little bashfully at first , but soon quite freely , and invite me to a huckleberry party next day .
I have observe that he be one of the best speller .
I also observe that his language be quite elegant ; he even quote Byron , and roll his eye in a most engaging manner , not to mention that he ask who give me my ring , and say he depend on escort me to the berry pasture .
` Dear me , how interesting it be !
and when I find myself , next day , sit under a tree in the sunny field -LRB- full of boy and girl , all more or less lovering -RRB- , with the amiable Augustus at my foot , gallantly supply me with bush to strip while we talk about book and poetry , I really felt a if I have get into a novel , and enjoy it immensely .
I believe a dim idea that Gus be sentimental hover in my mind , but I would not encourage it , though I laugh in my sleeve when he be spout Latin for my benefit , and be uncertain whether to box his ear or simper later in the day , when he languish over the gate , and say he think chestnut hair the lovely in the world .
Poor , dear boy !
how innocent and soft-hearted and full of splendid dream he be , and what deliciously romantic time we have float on the pond , while the frog sung to his accordion , a he try to say unutterable thing with his honest blue eye .
It make me shiver now to think of the mosquito and the damp ; but it be Pauline and Claude Melnotte then , and when I go home we promise to be true to one another , and write every week during the year he be away at school .
We part -- not in tear by any mean ; that sort of nonsense come later , when the romance be less childish -- but quite jolly and comfortable , and I hasten to pour forth the thrill tale to my faithful sister , who approve of the match , be a perfect ` mush of sentiment ' herself .
I fear it be not a very ardent flame , however , for Gus do not write every week , and I do not care a bit ; nevertheless , I keep his picture and give it a sentimental sigh when I happen to think of it , while he send message now and then , and devote himself to his study like an ambitious boy a he be .
I hardly expect to see him again , but soon after the year be out , to my great surprise , he call .
I be so flutter by the appearance of his card that I rather lose my head , and do such a silly thing that it make me laugh even now .
He like chestnut hair , and , pull out my comb , I rush down , theatrically dishevel , hop to impress my lover with my ardour and my charm .
I expect to find little Gus ; but , to my great confusion , a tall be with a beaver in his hand rise to meet me , look so big and handsome and generally impose that I could not recover myself for several minute , and mentally wail for my comb , feel like an untidy simpleton .
I do n't know whether he think me a little cracked or not , but he be very friendly and pleasant , and tell me his plan , and hop I would make another visit , and smooth his beaver , and let me see his tail-coat , and behave himself like a dear , conceited , clever boy .
He do not allude to our love-passages , be shy , and I bless him for it ; for really , I do n't know what rash thing I might have do under the exciting circumstance .
Just a he be go , however , he forget his cherished hat for a minute , put out both hand , and say heartily , with his old boyish laugh , -- ` Now you will come , and we 'll go boating and berrying , and all the rest of it again , wo n't we ? '
The blue eye be full of fun and feeling , too , I fancy , a I blushingly retire behind my lock and give the promise .
But I never go , and never saw my little lover any more , for in a few week he be dead of a fever , bring on by too much study , -- and so end the sad history of my fourth boy .
After this , for many year , I be a boyle be ; but be so busy I do not feel my destitute condition till I go to the hospital during the war , and find my little sergeant .
His story have be tell elsewhere , but the sequel to it be a pleasant one , for Baby B. still write to me now and then , ask advice about his future , and gladdens me with good news of his success a a business man in Kansas .
As if to atone for the former dearth , a sudden shower of most superior boy fell upon me , after I recover from my campaign .
Some of the very best sort it be my fortune to know and like -- real gentleman , yet boys still -- and jolly time they have , stir up the quiet old town with their energetic society .
There be W. , a stout , amiable youth , who would stand in the middle of a strawberry patch with his hand in his pocket and let u fee him luxuriously .
B. , a delightful scapegrace , who come once a week to confess his sin , beat his breast in despair , vow awful vow of repentance , and then cheerfully depart to break every one of them in the next twenty-four hour .
S. , the gentle-hearted giant ; J. , the dandy ; sober , sensible B. ; and E. , the young knight without reproach or fear .
But my especial boy of the batch be A . -- proud and cold and shy to other people , sad and serious sometimes when his good heart and tender conscience show him his short-comings , but so grateful for sympathy and a kind word .
I could not get at him as easily a I could the other lad , but , thanks to Dickens , I find him out at last .
We play Dolphus and Sophy Tetterby in the ` Haunted Man , ' at one of the school festival ; and during the rehearsal I discover that my Dolphus be -- permit the expression , oh , well-bred reader !
-- a trump .
What fun we have to be sure , act the droll and pathetic scene together , with a swarm of little Tetterbys skirmish about u !
From that time he have be my Dolphus and I his Sophy , and my yellow-haired laddie do n't forget me , though he have a young Sophy now , and some small Tetterbys of his own .
He write just the same affectionate letter a he use to do , though I , less faithful , be too busy to answer them .
But the best and dear of all my flock be my Polish boy , Ladislas Wisniewski -- two hiccough and a sneeze will give you the name perfectly .
Six year ago , a I go down to my early breakfast at our Pension in Vevey , I saw that a stranger have arrive .
He be a tall youth , of eighteen or twenty , with a thin , intelligent face , and the charmingly polite manner of a foreigner .
As the other boarder come in , one by one , they leave the door open , and a draught of cold autumn air blow in from the stone corridor , make the new-comer cough , shiver , and cast wistful glance towards the warm corner by the stove .
My place be there , and the heat often oppress me , so I be glad of an opportunity to move .
A word to Madame Vodoz effect the change ; and at dinner I be reward by a grateful smile from the poor fellow , a he nestle into his warm seat , after a pause of surprise and a flush of pleasure at the small kindness from a stranger .
We be too far apart to talk much , but , a he fill his glass , the Pole bow to me , and say low in French -- ' I drink the good health to Mademoiselle . '
I return the wish , but he shake his head with a sudden shadow on his face , a if the word mean more than mere compliment to him .
` That boy be sick and need care .
I must see to him , ' say I to myself , a I meet him in the afternoon , and observe the military look of his blue and white suit , a he touch his cap and smile pleasantly .
I have a weakness for brave boy in blue , and have discover that he have be in the late Polish Revolution , my heart warm to him at once .
That evening he come to me in the salon , and express his thanks in the pretty broken English I ever hear .
So simple , frank , and grateful be he that a few word of interest win his little story from him , and in half an hour we be friend .
With his fellow-students he have fight through the last outbreak , and suffer imprisonment and hardship rather than submit , have lose many friend , his fortune and his health , and at twenty , lonely , poor , and ill , be try bravely to cure the malady which seem fatal .
` If I recover myself of this affair in the chest , I teach the music to acquire my bread in this so hospitable country .
At Paris , my friend , all two , find a refuge , and I go to them in spring if I die not here .
Yes , it be solitary , and my memory be not gay , but I have my work , and the good God remain always to me , so I content myself with much hope , and I wait . '
Such genuine piety and courage increase my respect and regard immensely , and a few minute later he add to both by one of the little act that show character good than word .
He tell me about the massacre , when five hundred Poles be shoot down by Cossacks in the market-place , merely because they sing their national hymn .
` Play me that forbidden air , ' I say , wish to judge of his skill , for I have hear him practise softly in the afternoon .
He rise willingly , then glance about the room and give a little shrug which make me ask what he want . '
I look to see if the Baron be here .
He be Russian , and to him my national air will not be please . '
` Then play it .
He dare not forbid it here , and I should rather enjoy that little insult to your bitter enemy , ' say I , feel very indignant with everything Russian just then .
` Ah , mademoiselle , it be true we be enemy , but we be also gentleman , ' return the boy , prove that he at least be one .
I thank him for his lesson in politeness , and a the Baron be not there he play the beautiful hymn , sing it enthusiastically in spite of the danger to his weak lung .
A true musician evidently , for , a he sing his pale face glow , his eye shone , and his lose vigor seem restore to him .
From that even we be fast friend ; for the memory of certain dear lad at home make my heart open to this lonely boy , who give me in return the most grateful affection and service .
He beg me to call him ` Varjo , ' a his mother do .
He constitute himself my escort , errand-boy , French teacher , and private musician , make those week indefinitely pleasant by his win way , his charm little confidence , and faithful friendship .
We have much fun over our lesson , for I help him about his English .
With a great interest in free America , and an intense longing to hear about our war , the barrier of an unknown tongue do not long stand between u .
Beginning with my bad French and his broken English , we get on capitally ; but he outdo me entirely , make astonishing progress , though he often slap his forehead with the despair exclamation , -- ' I be imbecile !
I never can will shall to have learn this beast of English ! '
But he do , and in a month have add a new language to the five he already possess .
His music be the delight of the house ; and he often give u little concert with the help of Madame Teiblin , a German St. Cecilia , with a cropped head and a gentlemanly sack , cravat , and collar .
Both be enthusiast , and the longer they play the more inspired they get .
The piano vibrate , the stool creak , the candle dance in their socket , and every one sit mute while the four white hand chase one another up and down the key , and the two fine face beam with such ecstasy that we almost expect to see instrument and performer disappear in a musical whirlwind .
Lake Leman will never seem so lovely again a when Laddie and I roam about it shore , float on it bosom , or lay splendid plan for the future in the sunny garden of the old chateau .
I try it again last year , but the charm be go , for I miss my boy with his fun , his music , and the frank , fresh affection he give his ` little mamma , ' a he insist on call the lofty spinster who love him like half-a-dozen grandmother roll into one .
December rose blossom in the garden then , and Laddie never fail to have a posy ready for me at dinner .
Few evening pass without ` confidence ' in my corner of the salon , and I still have a pile of merry little note which I use to find tucked under my door .
He call them chapter of a great history we be to write together , and be a ' polisson ' he illustrate it with droll picture , and a funny mixture of French and English romance .
It be very pleasant , but like all pleasant thing in this world of change it soon come to an end .
When I leave for Italy we jokingly agree to meet in Paris the next May , but neither really felt that we should ever meet again , for Laddie hardly expect to outlive the winter , and I felt sure I should soon be forget .
As he kiss my hand there be tear in my boy 's eye , and a choke in the voice that try to say cheerfully -- ' Bon voyage , dear and good little mamma .
I do not say adieu , but au revoir . '
Then the carriage roll away , the wistful face vanish , and nothing remain to me but the memory of Laddie , and a little stain on my glove where a drop have fall .
As I draw near Paris six month later , and find myself wish that I might meet Varjo in the great , gay city , and wonder if there be any chance of my do it , I never dream of see him so soon ; but , a I make my way among the crowd of passenger that pour through the station , feeling tire , bewilder , and homesick , I suddenly saw a blue and white cap wave wildly in the air , then Laddie 's beam face appear , and Laddie 's eager hand grasp mine so cordially that I begin to laugh at once , and felt that Paris be almost as good a home .
` Ah , ha !
behold the little mamma , who do not think to see again her bad son !
Yes , I be greatly glad that I make the fine surprise for you a you come all weary to this place of noise .
Give to me the billet , for I be still mademoiselle 's servant and go to find the coffer . '
He get my trunk , put me into a carriage , and a we roll merrily away I ask how he chance to meet me so unexpectedly .
Knowing where I intend to stay , he have call occasionally till I notify Madame D. of the day and hour of my arrival , and then he have come to ` make the fine surprise . '
He enjoy the joke like a true boy , and I be glad to see how well he look , and how gay he seem .
` You be well ? '
I say . '
I truly hope so .
The winter be good to me and I cough less .
It be a small hope , but I do not enlarge my fear by a sad face .
I yet work and save a little purse , so that I may not be a heaviness to those who have the charity to finish me if I fall back and yet die . '
I would not hear of that , and tell him he look as well and happy a if he have find a fortune .
He laugh , and answer with his fine bow , ' I have .
Behold , you come to make the fte for me .
I find also here my friend Joseph and Napoleon .
Poor a mouse of the church , a you say , but brave boy , and we work together with much gaiety . '
When I ask if he have leisure to be my guide about Paris , for my time be short and I want to see everything ; he prance , and tell me he have promise himself a holiday , and have plan many excursion the most wonderful , charming , and gay .
Then , have settle me at Madame 's , he go blithely away to what I afterwards discover be very poor lodging , across the river .
Next day begin the pleasant fortnight in all my year of travel .
Laddie appear early , elegant to behold , in a new hat and buff glove , and be immensely amuse because the servant inform me that my big son have arrive .
I believe the first thing a woman do in Paris be to buy a new bonnet .
I do , or rather stand by and let ` my son ' do it in the best of French , only whisper when he propose gorgeous chapeaus full of flower and feather , that I could not afford it .
` Ah !
we must make our economy , must we ?
See , then , this modest , pearl-colored one , with the crape rise .
Yes , we will have that , and be most elegant for the Sunday promenade . '
I fear I should have buy a pea-green hat with a yellow plume if he have urge it , so wheedlesome and droll be his way and word .
His good taste save me , however , and the modest one be send home for the morrow , when we be to meet Joseph and Napoleon and go to the concert in the Tuileries garden .
Then we set off on our day of sight-seeing , and Laddie prove himself an excellent guide .
We have a charming trip about the enchanted city , a gay lunch at a caf , and a first brief glimpse of the Louvre .
At dinner-time I find a posy at my place ; and afterward Laddie come and spend the evening in my little salon , play to me , and have what he call ` babbling and pleasantry . '
I find that he be translate ` Vanity Fair ' into Polish , and intend to sell it at home .
He convulse me with his struggle to put cockney English and slang into good Polish , for he have save up a list of word for me to explain to him .
Hay-stack and bean-pot be among them , I remember ; and when he have master the meaning he fell upon the sofa exhaust .
Other day like this follow , and we lead a happy life together : for my twelve year ' seniority make our adventure quite proper , and I fearlessly go anywhere on the arm of my big son .
Not to theatre or ball , however , for heat room be bad for Laddie , but pleasant trip out of the city in the bright spring weather , quiet stroll in the garden , moonlight concert in the Champs Elyses ; or , best of all , long talk with music in the little red salon , with the gas turn low , and the ever-changing scene of the Rue de Rivoli under the balcony .
Never be pleasure more cheaply purchase or more thoroughly enjoy , for our heart be as light a our purse , and our ` little economy ' give zest to our amusement .
Joseph and Napoleon sometimes join u , and I felt in my element with the three invalid soldier boy , for Napoleon still limp with a wound receive in the war , Joseph have never recover from his two year ' imprisonment in an Austrian dungeon , and Laddie 's loyalty might yet cost him his life .
Thanks to them , I discover a joke play upon me by my ' polisson ' .
He tell me to call him ` ma drogha , ' say it meant ` my friend , ' in Polish .
I innocently do so , and he seem to find great pleasure in it , for his eye always laugh when I say it .
Using it one day before the other lad , I saw a queer twinkle in their eye , and suspect mischief , demand the real meaning of the word .
Laddie try to silence them , but the joke be too good to keep , and I find to my dismay that I have be call him ` my darling ' in the tender manner .
How the three rascal shout , and what a vain struggle it be to try and preserve my dignity when Laddie clasp his hand and beg pardon , explain that joke be necessary to his health , and he never mean me to know the full baseness of this ` pleasantrie ! '
I revenge myself by give him some bad English for his translation , and tell him of it just a I leave Paris .
It be not all fun with my boy , however ; he have his trouble , and in spite of his cheerfulness he know what heartache be .
Walking in the quaint garden of the Luxembourg one day , he confide to me the little romance of his life .
A very touching little romance a he tell it , with eloquent eye and voice and frequent pause for breath .
I can not give his word , but the simple fact be these : -- He have grow up with a pretty cousin , and at eighteen be desperately in love with her .
She return his affection , but they could not be happy , for her father wish her to marry a rich man .
In Poland , to marry without the consent of parent be to incur lasting disgrace ; so Leonore obey , and the young pair part .
This have be a heavy sorrow to Laddie , and he rush into the war , hop to end his trouble .
` Do you ever hear from your cousin ? '
I ask , a he walk beside me , look sadly down the green aisle where king and queen have love and part year ago . '
I only know that she suffer still , for she remembers .
Her husband submits to the Russians , and I despise him a I have no English to tell ; ' and he clench his hand with the flash of the eye and sudden kindling of the whole face that make him handsome .
He show me a faded little picture , and when I try to comfort him , he lay his head down on the pedestal of one of the marble queen who guard the walk , a if he never care to lift it up again .
But he be all right in a minute , and bravely put away his sorrow with the little picture .
He never speak of it again , and I saw no more shadow on his face till we come to say good-bye .
` You have be so kind to me , I wish I have something beautiful to give you , Laddie , ' I say , feel that it would be hard to get on without my boy .
` This time it be for always ; so , a a parting souvenir , give to me the sweet English good-bye . '
As he say this , with a despair sort of look , a if he could not spare even so humble a friend a myself , my heart be quite rent within me , and , regardless of several prim English lady , I draw down his tall head and kiss him tenderly , feel that in this world there be no more meeting for u .
Then I run away and bury myself in an empty railway carriage , hug the little cologne bottle he have give me .
He promise to write , and for five year he have keep his word , send me from Paris and Poland cheery , bright letter in English , at my desire , so that he might not forget .
Here be one a a specimen .
` MY DEAR AND GOOD FRIEND , -- What do you think of me that I do not write so long time ?
Excuse me , my good mamma , for I be so busy in these day I could not do this pleasant thing .
I write English without the fear that you laugh at it , because I know it be more agreeable to read the own language , and I think you be not except of this rule .
It be good of me , for the expression of love and regard , make with fault , take the funny appearance ; they be ridicule , and instead to go to the heart , they make the laugh .
Never mind , I do it .
` You can not imagine yourself how stupide be Paris when you be go .
I fly to my work , and make no more ftes , -- it be too sad alone .
I tie myself to my table and my Vanity -LRB- not of mine , for I be not vain , be I ? -RRB-
.
I wish some chapter to finish themselfs vite , that I send them to Pologne and know the end .
I have a little question to ask you -LRB- of Vanity a always -RRB- .
I can not translate this , no one of dictionnaires make me the word , and I think it be jargon de prison , this little period .
Behold : -- Mopy , be that your snum ?
Nubble your dad and gully the dog , & c. ` So funny thing I can not explain myself , so I send to you , and you reply sooner than without it , for you have so kind interest in my work you do not stay to wait .
So this be a little hook for you to make you write some word to your son who like it so much and be fond of you .
` My doctor tell me my lung be soon to be re-established ; so you may imagine yourself how glad I be , and of more courage in my future .
You may one day see your Varjo in Amerique , if I study commerce a I wish .
So then the last time of see ourselves be not the last .
Is that to please you ?
I suppose the grand histoire be finish , n'est ce pa ?
You will then send it to me care of M. Gryhomski Austriche , and he will give to me in clandestine way at Varsovie , otherwise it will be confiscate at the frontier by the stupide Russians .
` Now we be disperse in two side of world far apart , for soon I go home to Pologne and be no more '' juif errant . ''
It be now time I work at my life in some useful way , and I do it .
` As I be your grand fils , it be proper that I make you my compliment of happy Christmas and New Year , be it not ?
I wish for you so many a they may fulfil long human life .
May this year bring you more and more good heart to love you -LRB- the only real happiness in the hard life -RRB- , and may I be as now , yours for always , ` VARJO . '
A year ago he send me his photograph and a few line .
I acknowledge the receipt of it , but since then not a word have come , and I begin to fear that my boy be dead .
Others have appear to take his place , but they do n't suit , and I keep his corner always ready for him if he live .
If he be dead , I be glad to have know so sweet and brave a character , for it do one good to see even a short-lived and obscure a hero a my Polish boy , whose dead December rise embalms for me the memory of Varjo , the last and dear of my boy .
It be hardly necessary to add , for the satisfaction of inquisitive little woman , that Laddie be the original of Laurie , as far a a pale pen-and-ink sketch could embody a living , love boy .
TESSA 'S SURPRISES .
I . Little Tessa sit alone by the fire , wait for her father to come home from work .
The child be fast asleep , all four in the big bed behind the curtain ; the wind blow hard outside , and the snow beat on the window-panes ; the room be large , and the fire so small and feeble that it do n't half warm the little bare toe peep out of the old shoe on the hearth .
Tessa 's father be an Italian plaster-worker , very poor , but kind and honest .
The mother have die not long ago , and leave twelve-year old Tessa to take care of the little child .
She try to be very wise and motherly , and work for them like any little woman ; but it be so hard to keep the small body warm and feed , and the small soul good and happy , that poor Tessa be often at her wit ' end .
She always wait for her father , no matter how tired she be , so that he might find his supper warm , a bit of fire , and a loving little face to welcome him .
Tessa think over her trouble at these quiet time , and make her plan ; for her father leave thing to her a good deal , and she have no friend but Tommo , the harp-boy upstairs , and the lively cricket who live in the chimney .
To-night her face be very sober , and her pretty brown eye very thoughtful a she star at the fire and knit her brow , a if perplexed .
She be not think of her old shoe , nor the empty closet , nor the boy ' ragged clothes just then .
No ; she have a fine plan in her good little head , and be try to discover how she could carry it out .
You see , Christmas be come in a week ; and she have set her heart on put something in the child 's stocking , a the mother use to do , for while she live thing be comfortable .
Now Tessa have not a penny in the world , and do n't know how to get one , for all the father 's earnings have to go for food , fire , and rent .
` If there be only fairy , ah !
how heavenly that would be ; for then I should tell them all I wish , and , pop !
behold the fine thing in my lap ! '
say Tessa to herself . '
I must earn the money ; there be no one to give it to me , and I can not beg .
But what can I do , so small and stupid and shy a I be ?
I must find some way to give the little one a nice Christmas .
I must !
I must ! '
and Tessa pull her long hair , a if that would help her think .
But it do n't , and her heart get heavy and heavy ; for it do seem hard that in a great city full of fine thing , there should be none for poor Nono , Sep , and little Speranza .
Just a Tessa 's tear begin to tumble off her eyelash on to her brown cheek , the cricket begin to chirp .
Of course , he do n't say a word ; but it really do seem a if he have answer her question almost as well a a fairy ; for , before he have pip a dozen shrill note , an idea pop into Tessa 's head -- such a truly splendid idea that she clap her hand and burst out laughing .
` I 'll do it !
I 'll do it !
if father will let me , ' she say to herself , smile and nod at the fire .
` Tommo will like to have me go with him and sing , while he play his harp in the street .
I know many song , and may get money if I be not frighten ; for people throw penny to other little girl who only play the tambourine .
Yes , I will try ; and then , if I do well , the little one shall have a Merry Christmas . '
So full of her plan be Tessa that she run upstairs at once , and ask Tommo if he would take her with him on the morrow .
Her friend be delight , for he think Tessa 's song very sweet , and be sure she would get money if she try .
` But see , then , it be cold in the street ; the wind bite , and the snow freeze one 's finger .
The day be very long , people be cross , and at night one be ready to die with weariness .
Thou art so small , Tessa , I be afraid it will go badly with thee , ' say Tommo , who be a merry , black-eyed boy of fourteen , with the kind heart in the world under his old jacket . '
I do not mind cold and wet , and cross people , if I can get the penny , ' answer Tessa , feel very brave with such a friend to help her .
She thank Tommo , and run away to get ready , for she felt sure her father would not refuse her anything .
She sew up the hole in her shoe as well a she could , for she have much of that sort of cobble to do ; she mend her only gown , and lay ready the old hood and shawl which have be her mother 's .
Then she wash out little Ranza 's frock and put it to dry , because she would not be able to do it the next day .
She set the table and get thing ready for breakfast , for Tommo go out early , and must not be keep wait for her .
She long to make the bed and dress the child over night , she be in such a hurry to have all in order ; but , a that could not be , she sit down again , and try over all the song she know .
Six pretty one be choose ; and she sing away with all her heart in a fresh little voice so sweetly that the child smile in their sleep , and her father 's tired face brighten a he enter , for Tessa be his cheery cricket on the hearth .
When she have tell her plan , Peter Benari shake his head , and think it would never do ; but Tessa beg so hard , he consent at last that she should try it for one week , and send her to bed the happy little girl in New York .
Next morning the sun shone , but the cold wind blew , and the snow lay thick in the street .
As soon a her father be go , Tessa fly about and put everything in nice order , tell the child she be go out for the day , and they be to mind Tommo 's mother , who would see about the fire and the dinner ; for the good woman love Tessa , and enter into her little plan with all her heart .
Nono and Giuseppe , or Sep , a they call him , wonder what she be go away for , and little Ranza cry at be leave ; but Tessa tell them they would know all about it in a week , and have a fine time if they be good ; so they kiss her all round and let her go .
Poor Tessa 's heart beat fast a she trudge away with Tommo , who sling his harp over his shoulder , and give her his hand .
It be rather a dirty hand , but so kind that Tessa clung to it , and keep look up at the friendly brown face for encouragement .
` We go first to the caf , where many French and Italians eat the breakfast .
They like my music , and often give me sip of hot coffee , which I like much .
You too shall have the sip , and perhaps the penny , for these people be greatly kind , ' say Tommo , lead her into a large smoky place where many people sit at little table , eating and drinking .
` See , now , have no fear ; give them `` Bella Monica ; '' that be merry and will make the laugh , ' whisper Tommo , tune his harp .
For a moment Tessa felt so frighten that she want to run away ; but she remember the empty stocking at home , and the fine plan , and she resolve not to give it up .
One fat old Frenchman nod to her , and it seem to help her very much ; for she begin to sing before she think , and that be the hard part of it .
Her voice tremble , and her cheek grow red and redder a she go on ; but she keep her eye fix on her old shoe , and so get through without break down , which be very nice .
The people laugh , for the song be merry ; and the fat man smile and nod again .
This give her courage to try another , and she sing well and good each time ; for Tommo play his best , and keep whisper to her , ` Yes ; we go well ; this be fine .
They will give the money and the blessed coffee . '
So they do ; for , when the little concert be over , several men put penny in the cap Tessa offer , and the fat man take her on his knee , and order a mug of coffee , and some bread and butter for them both .
This quite win her heart ; and when they leave the caf , she kiss her hand to the old Frenchman , and say to her friend , ` How kind they be !
I like this very much ; and now it be not hard . '
But Tommo shake his curly head , and answer , soberly , ` Yes , I take you there first , for they love music , and be of our country ; but up among the great house we shall not always do well .
The people there be busy or hard or idle , and care nothing for harp and song .
Do not skip and laugh too soon ; for the day be long , and we have but twelve penny yet . '
Tessa walk more quietly , and rub her cold hand , feel that the world be a very big place , and wonder how the child get on at home without the little mother .
Till noon they do not earn much , for every one seem in a hurry , and the noise of many sleigh-bells drown the music .
Slowly they make their way up to the great square where the big house be , with fine lady and pretty child at the window .
Here Tessa sung all her best song , and Tommo play as fast a his finger could fly ; but it be too cold to have the window open , so the pretty child could not listen long , and the lady toss out a little money , and soon go back to their own affair .
All the afternoon the two friend wander about , sing and playing , and gather up their small harvest .
At dusk they go home , Tessa so hoarse she could hardly speak , and so tired she fell asleep over her supper .
But she have make half a dollar , for Tommo divide the money fairly , and she felt rich with her share .
The other day be very much like this ; sometimes they make more , sometimes less , but Tommo always ` go half ; ' and Tessa keep on , in spite of cold and weariness , for her plan grow a her earnings increase , and now she hop to get useful thing , instead of candy and toy alone .
On the day before Christmas she make herself as tidy a she could , for she hop to earn a good deal .
She tie a bright scarlet handkerchief over the old hood , and the brilliant color set off her brown cheek and bright eye , as well a the pretty black braid of her hair .
Tommo 's mother lend her a pair of boot so big that they turn up at the toe , but there be no hole in them , and Tessa felt quite elegant in whole boot .
Her hand be cover with chilblain , for she have no mitten ; but she put them under her shawl , and scuffle merrily away in her big boot , feel so glad that the week be over , and nearly three dollar safe in her pocket .
How gay the street be that day !
how brisk every one be , and how bright the face looked , a people trot about with big basket , holly-wreaths , and young evergreen go to blossom into splendid Christmas tree !
` If I could have a tree for the child , I 'd never want anything again .
But I ca n't ; so I 'll fill the sock all full , and be happy , ' say Tessa , a she look wistfully into the gay store , and saw the heavy basket go by .
` Who know what may happen if we do well ? '
return Tommo , nod wisely , for he have a plan as well a Tessa , and keep chuckle over it a he trudge through the mud .
They do not do well somehow , for every one seem so full of their own affair they could not stop to listen , even to ` Bella Monica , ' but bustle away to spend their money in turkey , toy , and tree .
In the afternoon it begin to rain , and poor Tessa 's heart to fail her ; for the big boot tire her foot , the cold wind make her hand ache , and the rain spoil the fine red handkerchief .
Even Tommo look sober , and do n't whistle a he walk , for he also be disappoint , and his plan look rather doubtful , the penny come in so slowly .
` We 'll try one more street , and then go home , thou art so tired , little one .
Come ; let me wipe thy face , and give me thy hand here in my jacket pocket ; there it will be as warm a any kitten ; ' and kind Tommo brush away the drop which be not all rain from Tessa 's cheek , tuck the poor hand into his ragged pocket , and lead her carefully along the slippery street , for the boot nearly trip her up .
II .
At the first house , a cross old gentleman flap his newspaper at them ; at the second , a young gentleman and lady be so busy talk that they never turn their head , and at the third , a servant come out and tell them to go away , because some one be sick .
At the fourth , some people let them sing all their song and give nothing .
The next three house be empty ; and the last of all show not a single face a they look up anxiously .
It be so cold , so dark and discouraging , that Tessa could n't help one sob ; and , a he glance down at the little red nose and wet figure beside him , Tommo give his harp an angry thump , and say something very fierce in Italian .
They be just go to turn away ; but they do n't , for that angry thump happen to be the best thing they could have do .
All of a sudden a little head appear at the window , a if the sound have bring it ; then another and another , till there be five , of all height and color , and five eager face peep out , smile and nod to the two below .
` Sing , Tessa ; sing !
Quick !
quick ! '
cry Tommo , twang away with all his might , and show his white teeth , a he smile back at the little gentle-folk .
Bless u !
How Tessa do tune up at that !
She chirp away like a real bird , forget all about the tear on her cheek , the ache in her hand , and the heaviness at her heart .
The child laugh , and clap their hand , and cry ` More !
more !
Sing another , little girl !
Please do ! '
And away they go again , pip and playing , till Tessa 's breath be go , and Tommo 's stout finger tingle well .
` Mamma say , come to the door ; it 's too muddy to throw the money into the street ! '
cry out a kindly child 's voice a Tessa hold up the old cap , with beseeching eye .
Up the wide stone step go the street musician , and the whole flock come run down to give a handful of silver , and ask all sort of question .
Tessa felt so grateful that , without wait for Tommo , she sing her sweet little song all alone .
It be about a lost lamb , and her heart be in the song ; therefore she sing it well , so well that a pretty young lady come down to listen , and stand watch the bright-eyed girl , who look about her a she sing , evidently enjoy the light and warmth of the fine hall , and the sight of the lovely child with their gay dress , shin hair , and dainty little shoe .
` You have a charming voice , child .
Who teach you to sing ? '
ask the young lady kindly .
` My mother .
She be dead now ; but I do not forget , ' answer Tessa , in her pretty broken English . '
I wish she could sing at our tree , since Bella be ill , ' cry one of the child peep through the banister .
` She be not fair enough for the angel , and too large to go up in the tree .
But she sing sweetly , and look a if she would like to see a tree , ' say the young lady .
` Oh , so much ! '
exclaim Tessa ; add eagerly , ` my sister Ranza be small and pretty a a baby-angel .
She could sit up in the fine tree , and I could sing for her from under the table . '
` Sit down and warm yourself , and tell me about Ranza , ' say the kind elder sister , who like the confide little girl , in spite of her shabby clothes .
So Tessa sit down and dry the big boot over the furnace , and tell her story , while Tommo stand modestly in the background , and the child listen with face full of interest . '
O Rose !
let u see the little girl ; and if she will do , let u have her , and Tessa can learn our song , and it will be splendid ! '
cry the big boy , who sit astride of a chair , and star at the harp with round eye .
` I 'll ask mamma , ' say Rose ; and away she go into the dining-room close by .
As the door open , Tessa saw what look to her like a fairy feast , -- all silver mug and flowery plate and orange and nut and rosy wine in tall glass pitcher , and smoke dish that smelt so deliciously she could not restrain a little sniff of satisfaction .
` Are you hungry ? '
ask the boy , in a grand tone .
` Yes , sir , ' meekly answer Tessa . '
I say , mamma ; she want something to eat .
Can I give her an orange ? '
call the boy , prance away into the splendid room , quite like a fairy prince , Tessa think .
A plump motherly lady come out and look at Tessa , ask a few question , and then tell her to come to-morrow with Ranza , and they would see what could be do .
Tessa clap her hand for joy , -- she do n't mind the chilblain now , -- and Tommo play a lively march , he be so pleased .
` Will you come , too , and bring your harp ?
You shall be pay , and shall have something from the tree , likewise , ' say the motherly lady , who like what Tessa gratefully tell about his kindness to her .
` Ah , yes ; I shall come with much gladness , and play as never in my life before , ' cry Tommo , with a flourish of the old cap that make the child laugh .
` Give these to your brother , ' say the fairy prince , stuff nut and orange into Tessa 's hand .
` And these to the little girl , ' add one of the young princess , fly out of the dining-room with cake and rosy apple for Ranza .
Tessa do n't know what to say ; but her eye be full , and she just take the mother 's white hand in both her little grimy one , and kiss it many time in her pretty Italian fashion .
The lady understand her , and stroke her cheek softly , say to her elder daughter , ` We must take care of this good little creature .
Freddy , bring me your mitten ; these poor hand must be cover .
Alice , get your play-hood ; this handkerchief be all wet ; and , Maud , bring the old chinchilla tippet . '
The child run , and in a minute there be lovely blue mitten on the red hand , a warm hood over the black braid , and a soft ` pussy ' round the sore throat .
` Ah !
so kind , so very kind !
I have no way to say `` thank you ; '' but Ranza shall be for you a heavenly angel , and I will sing my heart out for your tree ! '
cry Tessa , fold the mitten a if she would say a prayer of thankfulness if she know how .
Then they go away , and the pretty child call after them , ` Come again , Tessa !
come again , Tommo ! '
Now the rain do n't seem dismal , the wind cold , nor the way long , a they buy their gift and hurry home , for kind word and the sweet magic of charity have change all the world to them .
I think the good spirit who fly about on Christmas Eve , to help the love filler of little stocking , smile very kindly on Tessa a she brood joyfully over the small store of present that seem so magnificent to her .
All the goody be divide evenly into three part and stow away in father 's three big sock , which hang against the curtain .
With her three dollar , she have get a pair of shoe for Nono , a knit cap for Sep , and a pair of white stocking for Ranza ; to her she also give the new hood ; to Nono the mitten ; and to Sep the tippet .
` Now the dear boy can go out , and my Ranza will be ready for the lady to see , in her nice new thing , ' say Tessa , quite sigh with pleasure to see how well the gift look pin up beside the bulging sock , which would n't hold them all .
The little mother keep nothing for herself but the pleasure of give everything away ; yet , I think , she be both rich and happy than if she have keep them all .
Her father laugh a he have not do since the mother die , when he saw how comically the old curtain have break out into boot and hood , stocking and tippet . '
I wish I have a gold gown and a silver hat for thee , my Tessa , thou art so good .
May the saint bless and keep thee always ! '
say Peter Benari tenderly , a he hold his little daughter close , and give her the good-night kiss .
Tessa felt very rich a she creep under the faded counterpane , feeling a if she have receive a lovely gift , and fell happily asleep with chubby Ranza in her arm , and the two rough black head peep out at the foot of the bed .
She dream wonderful dream that night , and wake in the morning to find real wonder before her eye .
She get up early , to see if the sock be all right , and there she find the most astonishing sight .
Four sock , instead of three ; and by the fourth , pin out quite elegantly be a little dress , evidently mean for her -- a warm , woollen dress , all make , and actually with bright button on it .
It nearly take her breath away ; so do the new boot on the floor , and the funny long stock like a grey sausage , with a wooden doll star out at the top , a if she say , politely , ' A Merry Christmas , ma'am ! '
Tessa scream and dance in her delight , and up tumble all the child to scream and dance with her , make a regular carnival on a small scale .
Everybody hug and kiss everybody else , offer suck of orange , bite of cake , and exchange of candy ; every one try on the new thing , and prance about in them like a flock of peacock .
Ranza skip to and fro airily , dress in her white sock and the red hood ; the boy promenade in their little shirt , one with his creak new shoe and mitten , the other in his gay cap and fine tippet ; and Tessa put her dress straight on , feel that her father 's ` gold gown ' be not all a joke .
In her long stocking she find all sort of treasure ; for Tommo have stuff it full of queer thing , and his mother have make gingerbread into every imaginable shape , from fat pig to full omnibus .
Dear me !
What happy little soul they be that morning ; and when they be quiet again , how like a fairy tale do Tessa 's story sound to them .
Ranza be quite ready to be an angel ; and the boy promise to be marvellously good , if they be only allow to see the tree at the ` palace , ' a they call the great house .
Little Ranza be accept with delight by the kind lady and her child , and Tessa learn the song quite easily .
The boy be ask ; and , after a happy day , the young Italians all return , to play their part at the fine Christmas party .
Mamma and Miss Rose drill them all ; and when the folding-doors fly open , one rapturous ` Oh ! '
arose from the crowd of child gather to the festival .
I assure you , it be splendid ; the great tree glitter with light and gift ; and , on her invisible perch , up among the green bough , sit the little golden-haired angel , all in white , with downy wing , a shin crown on her head , and the most serene satisfaction in her blue eye , a she stretch her chubby arm to those below , and smile her baby smile at them .
Before any one could speak , a voice , a fresh and sweet a a lark 's , sing the Christmas Carol so blithely that every one stood still to hear , and then clap till the little angel shook on her perch , and cry out , ` Be 'till , or me 'll fall ! '
How they laugh at that ; and what fun they have talk to Ranza , while Miss Rose strip the tree , for the angel could not resist temptation , and amuse herself by eat all the bonbon she could reach , till she be take down , to dance about like a fairy in a white frock and red shoe .
Tessa and her friend have many present ; the boy be perfect lamb , Tommo play for the little folk to dance , and every one say something friendly to the stranger , so that they do not feel shy , in spite of shabby clothes .
It be a happy night : and all their life they remember it a something too beautiful and bright to be quite true .
Before they go home , the kind mamma tell Tessa she should be her friend , and give her a motherly kiss , which warm the child 's heart and seem to set a seal upon that promise .
It be faithfully keep , for the rich lady have be touch by Tessa 's patient struggle and sacrifice ; and for many year , thanks to her benevolence , there be no end to Tessa 's Surprises .
BUZZ .
I live high up in a city house all alone .
My room be a cosy little place , though there be nothing very splendid in it , -- only my picture and book , my flower and my little friend .
When I begin to live there , I be very busy and therefore very happy ; but by-and-by , when my hurry be over and I have more time to myself , I often felt lonely .
When I eat my meal I use to wish for a pleasant companion to eat with me ; and when I sit by the fire of evening , I think how much more social it would be if some one sit opposite .
I have many friend and caller through the day , but the evening be often rather dull ; for I could n't read much , and do n't care to go out in the stormy weather .
I be wish for a cheerful friend one night , when all of a sudden I find one ; for , sit on my hand , I saw a plump , jolly-looking fly .
He sit quietly star at me , with a mild little hum , a if to say , -- ` How be you ?
You want a friend , and here I be .
Will you have me ? '
Of course I would , for I like him directly , he be so cheery and confiding , and seem a glad to see me a I be to see him .
All his mate be dead and go , and he be alone , like myself .
So I waggle one finger , by way of welcome , fear to shake my hand , lest he should tumble off and feel hurt at my reception .
He seem to understand me , and buzz again , evidently say , -- ` Thank you , ma'am .
I should like to stay in your warm room , and amuse you for my board .
I wo n't disturb you , but do my best to be a good little friend . '
So the bargain be strike , and he stop to tea .
I find that his manner have be neglect ; for he be incline to walk over the butter , drink out of the cream-pot , and put his finger in the jelly .
A few tap with my spoon teach him to behave with more propriety , and he sip a drop of milk from the waiter with a crumb of sugar , a a well-bred fly should do .
On account of his fine voice , I name him Buzz , and we soon get on excellently together .
He seem to like his new quarter , and , after explore every corner of the room , he choose his favourite haunt and begin to enjoy himself .
I always know where he be , for he keep up a constant song , humming and buzzing , like a little kettle get ready to boil .
On sunny day , he amuse himself by bump his head against the window , and watch what go on outside .
It would have give me a headache , but he seem to enjoy it immensely .
Up in my hang basket of ivy he make his bower , and sit there on the moss basking in the sunshine , as luxuriously a any gentleman in his conservatory .
He be interested in the plant , and examine them daily with great care , walk over the ivy leave , grub under the moss , and poke his head into the unfolding hyacinth bud to see how they get on .
The picture , also , seem to attract his attention , for he spend much time skate over the glass and study the design .
Sometimes I would find him star at my Madonna , a if he say , ` What in the world be all those topsy-turvy child about ? '
Then he 'd sit in the middle of a brook , in a water-color sketch by Vautin , a if bath his foot , or seem to be eat the cherry which one little duck politely offer another little duck , in Oscar Pletch 's Summer Party .
He frequently kiss my mother 's portrait , and sit on my father 's bald head , a if try to get out some of the wisdom store up there , like honey in an ill-thatched bee-hive .
My bronze Mercury rather puzzle him , for he could not understand why the young gentleman do n't fly off when he have four wing and seem in such a hurry .
I 'm afraid he be a trifle vain , for he sit before the glass a great deal , and I often saw him clean his proboscis , and twiddle his feeler , and I know he be ` prinking , ' a we say .
The book please him , too , and he use to run them over , a if try to choose which he would read , and never seem able to decide .
He would have nothing to say to the fat French Dictionary , or my English Plays , but like Goethe and Schiller , Emerson and Browning , as well a I do .
Carlyle do n't suit him , and Richter evidently make his head ache .
But Jean Ingelow 's Poems delight him , and so do her ` Stories tell to a Child . '
` Fairy Bells ' he often listen to , and be very fond of the picture in a photograph book of foreign place and great people .
He frequently promenade on the piazza of a little Swiss chalet , stand on the mantel-piece , and think it a charming residence for a single gentleman like himself .
The closet delight him extremely , and he buzz in the most joyful manner when he get among the provision , -- for we keep house together .
Such revel a he have in the sugar-bowl ; such feast of gingerbread and grape ; such long sip of milk , and sly peep into every uncovered box and dish !
Once I 'm afraid he take too much cider , for I find him lie on his back , kicking and hum like a crazy top , and he be very queer all the rest of that day ; so I keep the bottle cork after that .
But his favorite nook be among the fern in the vase which a Parian dancing-girl carry .
She stand just over the stove on one little toe , rattle some castanets , which make no sound , and never get a step far for all her prancing .
This be a warm and pretty retreat for Buzz , and there he spend much of his time , swing on the fern , sleep snugly in the vase , or warm his foot in the hot air that blow up , like a south wind , from the stove .
I do n't believe there be a happy fly in Boston than my friend Buzz , and I grow fonder and fonder of him every day ; for he never get into mischief , but sing his cheery song , no matter what the weather be , and make himself agreeable .
Then he be so interested in all I do , it be delightful to have him round .
When I write he come and walk about over my paper to see that it be right , peep into my ink-stand , and ran after my pen .
He never make silly or sharp criticism on my story , but appear to admire them very much ; so I be sure he be a good judge .
When I sew , he sit in my basket , or play hide-and-seek in the fold of my work , talk away all the while in the most sociable manner .
He often fly up all of a sudden , and dance about in the air , a if he be in such a jolly mood he could n't keep still , and want me to come and play with him .
But , ala !
I have no wing , and could only sit stupidly still , and laugh at his prank .
That be his exercise , for he never go out , and only take a sniff of air now and then when I open the window .
Well , little Buzz and I live together many week , and never get tire of one another , which be say a good deal .
At Christmas I go home for a week and leave my room to take care of itself .
I put the hyacinth into the closet to be warm , and drop the curtain , so the frost should not nip my ivy ; but I forget Buzz .
I really would have take him with me , or carry him down to a neighbour 's room to be take care of while I be away , but I never think of him in the hurry of get my present and myself ready .
Off I go without even say ` good-bye , ' and never think of my little friend till Freddy , my small nephew , say to me one evening at dusk , -- ` Aunt Jo , tell me a story . '
So I begin to tell him about Buzz , and all of a sudden I cry out , -- ` Mercy on me !
I 'm afraid he 'll die of cold while I 'm go . '
It trouble me a good deal , and I want to know how the poor little fellow be so much that I would have go to see if I have not be so far away .
But it would be rather silly to hurry away twenty mile to look after one fly : so I finish my visit , and then go back to my room , hop to find Buzz alive and well in spite of the cold .
Alas , no !
my little friend be go .
There he lay on his back on the mantel-piece , his legs meekly fold , and his wing stiff and still .
He have evidently go to the warm place , and be surprise when the heat die out and leave him to freeze .
My poor little Buzz have sing his last song , dance his last dance , and go where the good fly go .
I be very sorry and bury him among the ivy root , where the moss lay green above him , the sun shone warmly on him , and the bitter cold could never come .
I miss him very much ; when I sit write , I miss his cheerful voice and busy wing ; at meal there be no tiny little body to drink up spilt drop and eat the crumb : in the evening , when I sit alone , I want him more than ever , and every day , a I water my plant , I say , softly , -- ` Grow green , ivy , lie lightly , moss , shine warmly , sun , and make his last bed pleasant to my little friend . '
THE CHILDREN 'S JOKE .
' `` You ca n't do this '' and `` you must n't do that , '' from morning to night .
Try it yourself and see how you 'd like it , ' mutter Harry , a he fling down his hat in sulky obedience to his father 's command to give up a swim in the river and keep himself cool with a book that warm summer evening .
` Of course I should like to mind my parent .
Good child always do , ' begin Mr. Fairbairn , entirely forget the prank of his boyhood , a people be apt to .
` Glad I do n't know you then .
Must have be a regular prig , ' growl Harry under his breath .
` Silence , sir !
go to your room , and do n't let me see you till tea-time .
You must be taught respect as well a obedience , ' and Mr. Fairbairn give the table a rap that cause his son to retire precipitately .
On the stair he meet his sister Kitty look as cross a himself .
` What 's the matter with you ? '
he ask , pause a minute , for misery love company .
` Mamma will make me dress up in a stiff clean frock , and have my hair curl over again just because some one may come .
I want to play in the garden , and I ca n't all fuss up this way .
I do hate company and clothes and manner , do n't you ? '
answer Kitty , with a spiteful pull at her sash . '
I hate be order round everlastingly , and badger from morning till night .
I 'd just like to be let alone , ' and Harry go on his way to captivity with a grim shake of the head and a very strong desire to run away from home altogether .
` So would I , mamma be so fussy .
I never have any peace of my life , ' sigh Kitty , feel that her lot be a hard one .
The martyr in brown linen go up , and the other martyr in white cambric go down , both look a they felt , rebellious and unhappy .
Yet a stranger see them and their home would have think they have everything heart could desire .
All the comfort that money could buy , and all the beauty that taste could give seem gathered round them .
Papa and mamma love the two little people dearly , and no real care or sorrow come to trouble the life that would have be all sunshine but for one thing .
With the best intention in the world , Mr. and Mrs. Fairbairn be spoil their child by constant fault-finding , too many rule and too little sympathy with the active young soul and body under their care .
As Harry say , they be order about , correct and fuss over from morning till night , and be get so tire of it that the most desperate idea begin to enter their head .
Now , in the house be a quiet old maiden aunt , who saw the mischief brewing , and try to cure it by suggest more liberty and less ` nagging , ' a the boy call it .
But Mr. and Mrs. F. always silence her by say , -- ` My dear Betsey , you never have a family , so how can you know anything about the proper management of child ? '
They quite forget that sister Betsey have bring up a flock of motherless brother and sister , and do it wisely and well , though she never get any thanks or praise for it , and never expect any for do her duty faithfully .
If it have not be for aunty , Harry and Kitty would have long ago carry out their favorite plan , and have run away together , like Roland and Maybird .
She keep them from this foolish prank by all sort of unsuspected mean , and be their refuge in troublous time .
For all her quiet way , aunty be full of fun as well a sympathy and patience , and she smooth the thorny road to virtue with the innocent and kindly little art that make some people a useful and beloved as good fairy godmother be once upon a time .
As they sit at tea that even papa and mamma be most affable and lively ; but the child 's spirit be depress by a long day of restraint , and they sit like well-bred mute , languidly eat their supper .
` It 's the warm weather .
They need something bracing .
I 'll give them a dose of iron mixture to-morrow , ' say mamma .
` I 've take enough now to make a cooking-stove , ' groan Kitty , who hat be dose .
` If you 'd let me go swim every night I 'd be all right , ' add Harry .
` Not another word on that point .
I will not let you do it , for you will get drown as sure a you try , ' say mamma , who be so timid she have panic the minute her boy be out of sight .
` Aunt Betsey let her boys go , and they never come to grief , ' begin Harry .
` Aunt Betsey 's idea and mine differ .
Children be not bring up now a they be in her day , ' answer mamma with a superior air . '
I just wish they be .
Jolly good time her boy have . '
` Yes , and girl too , play anything they like , and not rig up and plague with company , ' cry Kitty , with sudden interest .
` What do you mean by that ? '
ask papa good-naturedly ; for somehow his youth return to him for a minute , and seem very pleasant .
The child could not explain very well , but Harry say slowly , -- ` If you be to be in our place for a day you 'd see what we mean . '
` Would n't it be worth your while to try the experiment ? '
say Aunt Betsey , with a smile .
Papa and mamma laugh at the idea , but look sober when aunty add , -- ` Why not put yourselves in their place for a day and see how you like it ?
I think you would understand the case well than any one could describe it , and perhaps do both yourselves and the child a lasting service . '
` Upon my word , that 's a droll idea !
What do you say to it , mamma ? '
and papa look much amuse . '
I be willing to try it if you be , just for the fun of the thing , but I do n't think it will do any good ; ' and mamma shook her head a if Aunt Betsey 's plan be a wild one .
The child sit quiet , speechless with surprise at this singular proposal , but a it full richness dawn upon them , they skip in their chair and clap their hand delightedly .
` How do you propose to carry out this new educational frolic ? '
ask papa , begin to feel some curiosity a to the part he be to play .
` Merely let the child do a they like for one day and have full power over you .
Let them plan your duty and pleasure , order your food , fix your hour , and punish or reward you a they think proper .
You must promise entire obedience , and keep the agreement till night . '
` Good !
good !
Oh , wo n't it be fun ! '
cry Harry and Kitty , applaud enthusiastically ; while papa and mamma look rather sober a the plan be develop before them .
` To-morrow be a holiday for u all , and we might celebrate it by this funny experiment .
It will amuse u and do no harm , at any rate , ' add aunty , quite in love with her new scheme .
` Very well , we will .
Come , mamma , let u promise , and see what these rogue will do for u .
Playing father and mother be no joke , mind you ; but you will have an easy time of it than we do , for we shall behave ourselves , ' say papa , with a virtuous expression .
Mamma agree , and the supper end merrily , for every one be full of curiosity a to the success of the new play .
Harry and Kitty go to bed early , that they might be ready for the exciting labor of the next day .
Aunt Betsey pay each a short visit before they sleep , and it be suppose that she lay out the order of performance , and tell each what to do ; for the little people would never have think of so many sly thing if leave to themselves .
At seven the next morning , a mamma be in her dressing-room , just put on her cool , easy wrapper , in come Kitty with a solemn face , though her eye dance with fun , a she say , -- ` Careless , untidy girl !
Put on a clean dress , do up your hair properly , and go and practise half an hour before breakfast . '
At first mamma look a if incline to refuse , but Kitty be firm ; and , with a sigh , mamma rustle into a stiff , scratchy , French print , take her hair out of the comfortable net , and braid it carefully up ; then , instead of read in her arm-chair , she be lead to the parlor and set to learn a hard piece of music .
` Ca n't I have my early cup of tea and my roll ? '
she ask .
` Eating between meal be a very bad habit , and I ca n't allow it , ' say Kitty , in the tone her mother often use to her . '
I shall have a mug of new milk and a roll , because grown people need more nourishment than child ; ' and sit down , she eat her early lunch with a relish , while poor mamma play away , feel quite out of tune herself .
Harry find papa enjoy the last delightful doze that make bed so fascinating of a morning .
As if half afraid to try the experiment , the boy slowly approach and give the sleeper a sudden , hard shake , say briskly , -- ` Come , come , come , lazy-bones !
Get up , get up ! '
Papa start a if an earthquake have rouse him , and star at Harry , astonish for a minute , then he remember , and upset Harry 's gravity by whine out , -- ` Come , you let me alone .
It be n't time yet , and I be so tired . '
Harry take the joke , and assume the stern air of his father on such occasion , say impressively , -- ` You have be call , and now if you be not down in fifteen minute you wo n't have any breakfast .
Not a morsel , sir , not a morsel ; ' and , coolly pocket his father 's watch , he retire , to giggle all the way downstairs .
When the breakfast bell rang , mamma hurry into the dining-room , long for her tea .
But Kitty sit behind the urn , and say gravely , -- ` Go back , and enter the room properly .
Will you never learn to behave like a lady ? '
Mamma look impatient at the delay , and have re-entered in her most elegant manner , sit down , and pass her plate for fresh trout and muffin .
` No fish or hot bread for you , my dear .
Eat your good oatmeal porridge and milk ; that be the proper food for child . '
` Ca n't I have some tea ? '
cry mamma , in despair , for without it she felt quite lose .
` Certainly not .
I never be allow tea when a little girl , and could n't think of give it to you , ' say Kitty , fill a large cup for herself , and sip the forbidden draught with a relish .
Poor mamma quite groan at this hard fate , but meekly obey , and eat the detested porridge , understand Kitty 's dislike to it at last .
Harry , sit in his father 's chair , read the paper , and eat everything he could lay his hand on , with a funny assumption of his father 's morning manner .
Aunt Betsey look on much amuse , and now and then nod to the child a if she think thing be go nicely .
Breakfast be half over when papa come in , and be about to take Harry 's place when his son say , try vainly to look grave a he show the watch , -- ` What do I tell you , sir ?
You be late again , sir .
No breakfast , sir .
I 'm sorry , but this habit must be break up .
Not a word ; it 's your own fault , and you must bear the penalty . '
` Come , now , that 's hard on a fellow !
I 'm awful hungry .
Ca n't I have just a bite of something ? '
ask papa , quite take aback at this stern decree . '
I say not a morsel , and I shall keep my word .
Go to your morning duty and let this be a lesson to you . '
Papa cast a look at Aunt Betsey , that be both comic and pathetic , and depart without a word ; but he felt a sudden sympathy with his son , who have often be send fast from the table for some small offence .
Now it be that he appreciate aunty 's kind heart , and felt quite fond of her , for in a few minute she come to him , a he rake the gravel walk -LRB- Harry 's duty every day -RRB- , and slip a nice , warm , well-buttered muffin into his hand , say , in her motherly way , -- ` My dear , do try and please your father .
He be right about late rising , but I ca n't bear to see you starve . '
` Betsey , you be an angel ! '
and turn his back to the house , papa bolt the muffin with grateful rapidity , inquire with a laugh , ` Do you think those rogue will keep it up in this vigorous style all day ? ' '
I trust so ; it be n't a bit overdone .
Hope you like it ! '
and Aunt Betsey walk away , look a if she enjoy it extremely .
` Now put on your hat and draw baby up and down the avenue for half an hour .
Do n't go on the grass , or you will wet your foot ; and do n't play with baby , I want her to go to sleep ; and do n't talk to papa , or he will neglect his work , ' say Kitty , a they rise from table .
Now , it be a warm morning and baby be heavy and the avenue be dull , and mamma much prefer to stay in the house and sew the trimming on to a new and pretty dress .
` Must I really ?
Kitty you be a hard-hearted mamma to make me do it , ' and Mrs. Fairbairn hop her play-parent would relent .
But she do not , and only answer with a meaning look . '
I have to do it every day , and you do n't let me off . '
Mamma say no more , but put on her hat and trundle away with fretful baby , think to find her fellow-sufferer and have a laugh over the joke .
She be disappointed , however , for Harry call papa away to weed the lettuce-bed , and then shut him up in the study to get his lesson , while he mount the pony and trot away to town to buy a new fishing-rod and otherwise enjoy himself .
When mamma come in , hot and tired , she be meet by Kitty with a bottle in one hand and a spoon in the other .
` Here be your iron mixture , dear .
Now take it like a good girl . ' '
I wo n't ! '
and mamma look quite stubborn .
` Then aunty will hold your hand and I shall make you . '
` But I do n't like it ; I do n't need it , ' cry mamma .
` Neither do I , but you give it to me all the same .
I 'm sure you need strengthen more than I do , you have so many `` trial , '' ' and Kitty look very sly a she quote one of the word often on her mother 's lip .
` You 'd better mind , Carrie ; it ca n't hurt you , and you know you promised entire obedience .
Set a good example , ' say aunty .
` But I never think these little chit would do so well .
Ugh , how disagreeable it be ! '
And mamma take her dose with a wry face , feel that Aunt Betsey be side with the wrong party .
` Now sit down and hem these towel till dinner-time .
I have so much to do I do n't know which way to turn , ' continue Kitty , much elate with her success .
Rest of any sort be welcome , so mamma sew busily till caller come .
They happen to be some little friend of Kitty 's , and she go to them in the parlor , tell mamma to go up to nurse and have her hair brush and her dress change , and then come and see the guest .
While she be away Kitty tell the girl the joke they be have , and beg them to help her carry it out .
They agree , be ready for fun and not at all afraid of Mrs. Fairbairn .
So when she come in they all begin to kiss and cuddle and praise and pass her round a if she be a doll , to her great discomfort and the great amusement of the little girl .
While this be go on in the drawing-room , Harry be tutor his father in the study , and put that poor gentleman through a course of question that nearly drive him distract ; for Harry get out the hard book he could find , and select the most puzzling subject .
A dusty old history be rummage out also , and classical research follow , in which papa 's memory play him false more than once , call forth rebuke from his severe young tutor .
But he come to open disgrace over his mathematics , for he have no head for figure , and , not be a business man , have not trouble himself about the matter ; so Harry , who be in fine practice , utterly rout him in mental arithmetic by give him regular puzzler , and when he get stuck offer no help , but shake his head and call him a stupid fellow .
The dinner-bell release the exhausted student , and he gladly take his son 's place , look a if he have be hard at work .
He be faint with hunger , but be help last , be ` only a boy , ' and then check every five minute for eat too fast .
Mamma be very meek , and only look wistfully at the pie when told in her own word that pastry be bad for child .
Any attempt at conversation be promptly quench by the worn-out old saying , ` Children should be see , not heard , ' while Harry and Kitty chatter all dinner-time , and enjoy it to their heart ' content , especially the frequent peck at their great child , who , to be even with them , imitate all their trick as well a they could .
` Do n't whistle at table , papa ; ' ` keep your hand still mamma ; ' ` wait till you be help , sir ; ' ` tuck your napkin well in , and do n't spill your soup , Caroline . '
Aunt Betsey laugh till her eye be full , and they have a jolly time , though the little people have the best of it , for the others obey them in spite of their dislike to the new rule .
` Now you may play for two hour , ' be the gracious order issue a they rise from table .
Mamma fell upon a sofa exhaust , and papa hurry to read his paper in the shady garden .
Usually these hour of apparent freedom be spoil by constant call , -- not to run , not to play this or that , or frequent call to do errand .
The child have mercy , however , and leave them in peace ; which be a wise move on the whole , for the poor soul find rest so agreeable they privately resolve to let the child alone in their play-hours .
` Can I go over and see Mr. Hammond ? '
ask papa , wish to use up the last half-hour of his time by a neighbourly call .
` No ; I do n't like Tommy Hammond , so I do n't wish you to play with his father , ' say Harry , with a sly twinkle of the eye , a he turn the table on his papa .
Mr. Fairbairn give a low whistle and retire to the barn , where Harry follow him , and order the man to harness up old Bill .
` Going to drive , sir ? '
ask papa , respectfully .
` Do n't ask question , ' be all the answer he get .
Old Bill be put into the best buggy and driven to the hall door .
Papa follow , and mamma spring up from her nap , ready for her afternoon drive .
` Ca n't I go ? '
she ask , a Kitty come down in her new hat and glove .
` No ; there be n't room . '
` Why not have the carryall , and let u go , too , we like it so much , ' say papa , in the plead tone Harry often use .
Kitty be about to consent , for she love mamma , and find it hard to cross her so .
But Harry be make of sterner stuff ; his wrong still burn within him , and he say impatiently -- ` We ca n't be trouble with you .
The buggy be nice and light , and we want to talk over our affair .
You , my son , can help John turn the hay on the lawn , and Caroline can amuse baby , or help Jane with the preserve .
Little girl should be domestic . '
` Oh , thunder ! '
growl papa .
` Aunt Betsey taught you that speech , you saucy boy , ' cry mamma , a the child drive off in high glee , leave their parent to the distasteful task set them .
Mrs. Fairbairn want to read , but baby be fretful , and there be no Kitty to turn him over to , so she spend her afternoon amuse the small tyrant , while papa make hay in the sun and do n't like it .
Just at tea-time the child come home , full of the charm of their drive , but do not take the trouble to tell much about it to the stay-at-home people .
Bread and milk be all they allow their victim , while they revel in marmalade and cake , fruit and tea . '
I expect company this evening , but I do n't wish you to sit up , Caroline ; you be too young , and late hour be bad for your eye .
Go to bed , and do n't forget to brush your hair and teeth well , five minute for each ; cold cream your hand , fold your ribbon , hang up your clothes , put out your boot to be clean , and put in the mosquito bar ; I will come and take away the light when I be dress . '
Kitty deliver this dread command with effect , for she have hear and cry over it too often not to have it quite by heart .
` But I ca n't go to bed at half-past seven o'clock of a summer night !
I 'm not sleepy , and this be just the pleasant time of the whole day , ' say mamma , think her bargain a hard one .
` Go up directly , my daughter , and do n't discuss the matter ; I know what be best for you , ' and Kitty send social , wide-awake mamma to bed , there to lie think soberly till Mrs . Kit come for the lamp .
` Have you have a happy day , love ? '
she ask , bend over the pillow , a her mother use to do .
` No , ma'am . '
` Then it be your own fault , my child .
Obey your parent in all thing , and you will be both good and happy . '
` That depend ' -- begin mamma , but stop short , remember that to-morrow she would be on the other side , and anything she might say now would be quote against her .
But Kitty understood , and her heart melt a she hug her mother and say in her own caressing way -- ` Poor little mamma !
do she have a hard time ?
and do n't she like be a good girl and mind her parent ? '
Mamma laugh also , and hold Kitty close , but all she say be -- ` Good-night , dear ; do n't be trouble : it will be all right to-morrow . ' '
I hope so , ' and with a hearty kiss , Kitty go thoughtfully downstairs to meet several little friend whom she have ask to spend the evening with her .
As the lady leave the room , papa lean back and prepare to smoke a cigar , feel that he need the comfort of it after this try day .
But Harry be down upon him at once . '
A very bad habit -- ca n't allow it .
Throw that dirty thing away , and go and get your Latin lesson for to-morrow .
The study be quiet , and we want this room . '
` But I be tire .
I ca n't study at night .
Let me off till to-morrow , please , sir ! '
beg papa , who have not look at Latin since he leave school .
` Not a word , sir !
I shall listen to no excuse , and shall not let you neglect your education on any account , ' and Harry slap the table  la papa in the most impressive manner .
Mr. Fairbairn go away into the dull study and make believe do his lesson , but he really smoke and meditate .
The young folk have a grand revel , and keep it up till ten o'clock , while mamma lay awake , long to go down and see what they be about , and papa shortly fell asleep , quite exhaust by the society of a Latin Grammar .
` Idle boy , be this the way you study ? '
say Harry , audaciously tweak him by the ear .
` No , it 's the way you do ; ' and feel that his day of bondage be over , papa cast off his allegiance , tuck a child under each arm , and march upstairs with them , kick and scream .
Setting them down at the nursery door , he say , shake his finger at them in an awful manner , -- ` Wait a bit , you rascals , and see what you will get to-morrow . '
With this dark threat he vanish into his own room , and a minute after a great burst of laughter set their fear at rest .
` It be a fair bargain , so I 'm not afraid , ' say Harry stoutly .
` He kiss u good-night though he do glower at u , so I guess it be only fun , ' add Kitty .
` Has n't it be a funny day ? '
ask Harry .
` Do n't think I quite like it , everything be so turned round , ' say Kitty .
` Guess they do n't like it very well .
Hear 'em talk in there ; ' and Harry hold up his finger , for a steady murmur of conversation have follow the laughter in papa and mamma 's room . '
I wonder if our joke will do any good ? '
say Kitty thoughtfully .
` Wait and see , ' answer Aunt Betsey , pop her night-capped head out of her room with a nod and a smile that send them to bed full of hope for the future .
DANDELION .
Down by the sea live Ben the fisherman , with his wife , and little son , who be call Dandelion , because he wear yellow pinafore , and have curly , yellow hair , that cover his head with a golden fuzz .
A very happy family , for Ben be kind and industrious , Hetty , his wife , a cheerful , busy creature , and Dandelion the jolly three-year-old baby who ever make sand-pies and paddle on the beach .
But one day a great trouble come to them .
Ben and his fellow-fishermen sail blithely away a usual , and Hetty watch the fleet of white-winged boat out of the bay , think how pretty they look with the sunshine on them ; while Dandelion stand clap his chubby hand , and say , a he always do , ` Daddy tummin ' soon . '
But Daddy do not come soon that time ; for a great storm arose , and when some of the boat come scud home at nightfall , Ben 's be not among them .
All night the gale rag , and in the morning , Ben 's boat lay empty and break on the shore .
His mate shake their head when they saw the wreck , and draw their rough hand over their eye ; for Ben be a good seaman , and they know he never would desert his boat alive .
They look for him far and wide , but could hear nothing of him , and felt sure that he have perish in the storm .
They try to comfort poor Hetty , but she would not be comfort .
Her heart seem broken ; and if it have not be for her baby , her neighbour fear that she would have go to join Ben in his grave under the sea .
Dandelion do n't understand why every one be so sad , and why his father stay away so long ; but he never lose his cheerfulness , never give up hoping , or stop say , with a contented smile , ` Daddy tummin ' soon . '
The sunshiny little face be Hetty 's only comfort .
The sight of the fuzzy yellow head , bob round the house , alone make it endurable ; and the touch of the love baby hand keep her from the despair which make her long to end her sorrow in the sea .
People do n't believe in fairy now-a-days ; nevertheless , good spirit still exist , and help u in our time of trouble , good even than the little people we use to read about .
One of these household spirit be call Love , and it take the shape of Dandelion to comfort poor Hetty .
Another be call Labor : a beautiful , happy spirit this be , and it do it part so well that there be little time for bitter thought or vain regret ; for Hetty 's spinning-wheel must go , in order to earn bread for Dandelion , whose mouth be always ready for food , like a hungry bird 's .
Busily hum the wheel : and , a it fly , it seem to catch an echo of the baby 's cheerful song , say , over and over , ` Daddy tummin ' soon , ' till Hetty stop cry a she work , and listen to the cheerful whirr .
` Yes , I shall see my good Ben again , if I wait patiently .
Baby take comfort in say that , and I will , too ; though the poor dear will get tire of it soon , ' she say .
But Dandelion do n't get tire .
He firmly believe what he say , and nothing could change his mind .
He have be much trouble at see the boat lay up on the beach all break and dismantle , but his little mind could n't take in the idea of shipwreck and death ; so , after think it over , he decide that Daddy be wait somewhere for a new boat to be send to bring him home .
This idea be so strong that the child gather together his store of toy-boats , -- for he have many , a they be his favourite plaything , -- and launch them , one after another , tell them to find his father , and bring him home .
As Dandelion be not allow to play on the beach , except at low tide , the little boat sail safely away on the receding wave , and the child be sure that some of them would get safely into the distant port where Daddy be wait .
All the boat be launch at last , all sail bravely away ; but none come back , and little Dandy be much disappointed .
He babble about it to himself ; tell the peep and the horse-shoes , the snail and the lobster , of his trouble ; beg the gull to fly away and find Daddy ; and every windy night when the sea dash on the shore and the shutter rattle , he would want the lamp put in the window , a it use to be when they expect Ben , and try to make home look cheerful , even before he get there .
Hetty use to humour the child , though it make her heart ache to know that the light shone in vain .
At such time Dandy would prance about the room in his little shirt , and talk about Daddy as happily a if long month have not pass without bring him back .
When fairly in his big , old-fashioned cradle , the boy would lie , look more like a dandelion than ever , in his yellow flannel night-gown , play with his toe , or rock himself to and fro , call the cradle his boat , and blithely tell his mother that he be sail ` far way to find Daddy . '
When tire of play , he lay still and ask her to sing to him .
She have no heart for the gay old sea-songs she use to sing for lullaby ; so she sing hymn in her soft , motherly voice , till the blue eye close and the golden head lay still , look so pretty , with the circle of bright hair above the rosy face .
` My little saint , ' Hetty call him ; and though she often weep sadly a she watch him , the bitterness of her grief pass away , and a patient hope come to her ; for the child 's firm faith impress her deeply , the pious music of the sweet old hymn comfort her sore heart , and daily labor keep her cheerful in spite of herself .
The neighbour wonder at the change that come over her , but she could not explain it ; and no one know that the three good spirit call Love , Labor , and Hope , be work their pleasant miracle .
Six long month go by , and no one ever think of see Ben again , -- no one but his little son , who still watch for him here , and his wife , who wait to meet him hereafter .
One bright spring day something happen .
The house be as tidy a ever ; the wheel hum briskly a Hetty sing softly to herself with a cheerful face , though there be white hair among the brown , and her eye have a thoughtful , absent look at time .
Dandelion , more chubby and cheery than ever , sit at her foot , with the sunshine make a golden glory of his yellow hair , a he try his new boat in the tub of water his mother keep for her little sailor , or tug away with his fat finger at a big needle which he be try to pull through a bit of cloth intend for a sail .
The faithful little soul have not forget his father , but have come to the conclusion that the reason his boat never prosper be because they have n't large enough sail ; so he be intent on rig a new boat lately give him , with a sail that could not fail to waft Ben safely home .
With his mouth pucker up , his downy eyebrows knit , and both hand pull at the big needle , he be so wrap in his work that he do not mind the stopping of the wheel when Hetty fell into a reverie , thinking of the happy time when she and Ben should meet again .
Sitting so , neither hear a step come softly over the sand ; neither saw an eager , brown face peer in at the door ; and neither knew for a minute , that Ben be watch them , with a love and longing in his heart that make him tremble like a woman .
Dandelion saw him first ; for , a he pull the thread through with a triumphant jerk , the small sailmaker lose his balance , tumble over , and lay star up at the tall man with his blue eye so wide open , they look a if they would never shut again .
All of a sudden , he shout , with a joyful shout , ` Daddy 's tummin ' ! '
and the next instant , vanish , ship and all , in the arm of the man who wear the rough jacket .
Over go the spinning-wheel , a Hetty vanish likewise ; and for a time there be nothing but sobbing and kissing , clinging , and thank Heaven for it kindness to them .
When they grow quieter , and Ben get into his old chair , with his wife on one knee and his boy on the other , he tell them how he be wreck in the gale , pick up by an outward-bound ship , and only able to get back after month of sickness and delay .
` My boaty fetch him , ' say Dandelion , feel that every thing have turn out just a he expect .
` So it do , my precious ; leastways , your faith help , I have n't a doubt , ' cry Hetty , hug the curly head prophet close , a she tell Ben all that have happen .
Ben do n't say much , but a few great tear roll down the rough blue jacket , a he look from the queer sail with it two big stitch to the little son , whose love , he firmly believe , have keep him safe through many danger and bring him home at last .
When the fine new boat be build , no one think it strange that Ben name it ` Dandelion ; ' no one laugh at the little sail which always hang over the fire-place in the small house : and long year after , when Ben be an old man , and sat by the door with his grand-children on his knee , the story which always please them best be that which end with the funny word , ` Daddy tummin ' soon . '
MADAM CLUCK AND HER FAMILY .
There never be a prouder mamma than Madam Cluck when she lead forth her family of eight downy little chick .
Chanticleer , Strut , Snowball , Speckle , Peep , Peck , Downy , and Blot be their name ; and no sooner be they out of the shell than they begin to chirp and scratch as gaily a if the big world in which they suddenly find themselves be make for their especial benefit .
It be a fine brood ; but poor Madam Cluck have bad luck with her chick , for they be her first , and she do n't know how to manage them .
Old Aunt Cockletop tell her that she do n't , and predict that ` those poor dear would come to bad end . '
Aunt Cockletop be right , a you will see , when I have tell the sad history of this unfortunate family .
The tragedy begin with Chanty , who be the bold little cockadoodle who ever try to crow .
Before he have a feather to his bit of a tail , Chanty begin to fight , and soon be know a the most quarrelsome chick in the farm-yard .
Having peck his brother and sister , he try to do the same to his playmate , the duckling , gosling , and young turkey , and be so disagreeable that all the fowl hat him .
One day , a pair of bantam arrive , -- pretty little white bird , with red crest and nice yellow foot .
Chanty think he could beat Mr. Bantam easily , he be so small , and invite him to fight .
Mr. B. decline .
Then Chanty call him a coward , and give Mrs. B. a peck , which so enrage her spouse that he fly at Chanty like a gamecock , and a dreadful fight follow , which end in Chanty 's utter defeat , for he die from his wound .
Downy and Snowball soon follow ; for the two sweet little thing would swing on the burdock-leaves that grow over the brook .
Sitting side by side , the plump sister be placidly sway up and down over the clear brown water ripple below , when -- ah !
sad to relate -- the stem break , and down go leaf , chicken and all , to a watery death .
` I 'm the most unlucky hen ever hatch ! '
groan poor Madam Cluck ; and it do seem so , for the very next week , Speckle , the best and prettiest of the brood , go to walk with Aunt Cockletop , ` grasshoppering ' they call it , in the great field across the road .
What a nice time Speckle do have , to be sure ; for the grasshopper be lively and fat , and aunt be in an unusually amiable mood .
` Never run away from anything , but face danger and conquer it , like a brave chick , ' say the old biddy , a she go cluck through the grass , with her gray turban wagging in the wind .
Speckle have hop away from a toad with a startled chirp , which cause aunt to utter that remark .
The word have hardly leave her beak , when a shadow above make her look up , give one loud croak of alarm , and then scuttle away , a fast a leg and wing could carry her .
Little Speckle , remember the advice , and unconscious of the danger , stand her ground a a great hawk come circle nearer and nearer , till , with a sudden dart he pounce on the poor chicken , and bore it away chirp dismally , ` Aunty tell me not to run .
Oh , dear !
oh , dear !
What shall I do ? '
It be a dreadful blow to Mrs. Cluck ; and Aunt Cockletop do n't show herself for a whole day after that story be know , for every fowl in the yard twit her with the difference between her preaching and her practice .
Strut , the other son , be the vain chick ever see ; and the great aim of his life be to crow loud than any other cock in the neighbourhood .
He be at it from morning till night , and everyone be tire to death of hear his shrill , small voice make funny attempt to produce hoarse little crow , a he sit on the wall and stretch his yellow neck , till his throat quite ache with the effort .
` Ah !
if I could only fly to the high beam in the barn , and give a splendid crow that everyone could hear , I should be perfectly happy , ' say this silly little fowl , a he star up at the loft where the old cock often sit .
So he try every day to fly and crow , and at last manage to get up ; then how he do strut and rustle his feather , while his playmate sit below and watch him .
` You 'll fall and get hurt , ' say his sister Blot .
` Hold your tongue , you ugly little thing , and do n't talk to me .
I 'm go to crow , and ca n't be interrupt by any silly bit of a hen .
Be quiet , down there , and hear if I ca n't do it as well a daddy . '
The chick stop scratch and peeping , and sit in a row to hear Strut crow .
Perching himself on the beam , he try his best , but only a droll ` cock-a-doodle-doo ' come of it , and all the chick laugh .
That make Strut mad , and he resolve to crow , even if he kill himself do it .
He give an angry cluck , flap his wing , and try again .
Alas , ala , for poor Strut !
he lean so far forward in his frantic effort to get a big crow out , that he topple over and fell bump on the hard barn-floor , kill himself instantly .
For some time after this , Mrs. Cluck keep her three remain little one close to her side , watch over them with maternal care , till they be heartily tire of her anxious clucking .
Peep and Peck be always together , be very fond of one another .
Peep be a most inquisitive chicken , poke her head into every nook and corner , and never satisfy till she have see all there be to see .
Peck be a glutton , eat everything she could find , and often make herself ill by gobble too fast , and forget to eat a little gravel to help digest her food .
` Do n't go out of the barn , child .
I 'm go to lay an egg , and ca n't look after you just now , ' say their mother one day .
` Yes , ma'am , ' chirp the chicken ; and then a she go rustle into the hay-mow , they begin to run about and enjoy themselves with all their might .
Peep find a little hole into the meal-room , and slip in , full of joy at the sight of the bag , box , and bin .
` I 'll eat all I want , and then I 'll call Peck , ' she say ; and have take a taste of every thing , she be about to leave , when she hear the stableman come , and in her fright could n't find the hole , so flew into the meal-bin and hid herself .
Sam never saw her , but shut down the cover of the bin a he pass , and leave poor Peep to die .
No one know what have become of her till some day later , when she be find dead in the meal , with her poor little claw stick straight up a if implore help .
Peck meanwhile get into mischief also ; for , in her hunt for something good to eat , she stray into the sheep-shed , and find some salt , eat as much a she like , not know that salt be bad for hen .
Having take all she want , she run back to the barn , and be innocently catch gnat when her mamma come out of the hay-mow with a loud .
` Cut-cut-cut-ca-dar-cut ! '
` Where be Peep ? '
ask Mrs. Cluck .
` Do n't know , ma .
She ' -- there Peck stop suddenly , roll up her eye , and begin to stagger about a if she be tipsy .
` Mercy on u !
What 's the matter with the chick ? '
cried Mrs. Cluck , in great alarm .
` Fits , ma'am , ' answer Doctor Drake , who just then waddle by .
` Oh !
what can I do ? '
scream the distracted hen .
` Nothing , ma'am ; it 's fatal . '
And the doctor waddle on to visit Dame Partlet 's son , who be ill of the pip .
` My child , my child !
do n't flap and stagger so !
Let me hold you !
Taste this mint-leaf !
Have a drop of water !
What shall I do ? '
As poor Mrs. Cluck sigh and sob , her unhappy child go scuffle about on her back , gasping and roll up her eye in great anguish , for she have eat too much of the fatal salt , and there be no help for her .
When all be over they bury the dead chicken under a currant bush , cover the little grave with chickweed , and the bereaved parent wear a black string round her leg for a month .
Blot , ` the last of that bright band , ' need no mourning for she be as black a a crow .
This be the reason why her mother never have love her as much a she do the others , who be all white , gray , or yellow .
Poor little Blot have be much neglect by every one ; but now her lonely mamma discover how good and affectionate a chicken she be , for Blot be a great comfort to her , never run away or disobey in any way , but always close to her side , ready to creep under her wing , or bring her a plump bug when the poor biddy 's appetite fail her .
They be very happy together till Thanksgiving draw near , when a dreadful pestilence seem to sweep through the farm-yard ; for turkey , hen , duck , and goose fell a prey to it , and be see by their surviving relative featherless , pale , and stiff , bear away to some unknown place whence no fowl return .
Blot be wake one night by a great cackling and fluttering in the hen-house , and peep down from her perch saw a great hand glide along the roost , clutch her beloved mother by the leg , and pull her off , scream dolefully , ` Good-by , good-by , my darling child ! '
Aunt Cockletop peck and croak fiercely ; but , tough a she be , the old biddy do not escape , and many another amiable hen and gallant cockadoodle fell a victim to that mysterious hand .
In the morning few remain , and Blot felt that she be a forlorn orphan , a thought which cause her to sit with her head under her wing for several hour , brood over her sad lot , and long to join her family in some safe and happy land , where fowls live in peace .
She have her wish very soon , for one day , when the first snowflake begin to flutter out of the cold gray sky , Blot saw a little kitten mew pitifully a it sit under the fence .
` What be the matter , dear ? '
ask kind Blot .
` I 'm lose , and I ca n't find my way home , ' answer the kitten , shiver with cold . '
I live at the red farm-house over the hill , only I do n't know which road to take . '
` I 'll show you .
Come at once , for night be come on , and the snow will soon be too deep for u , ' say Blot .
So away they go , a fast a their small leg could carry them ; but it be a long way , and dusk come on before the red farm-house appear .
` Now I 'm safe ; thank you very much .
Wo n't you come in , and stay all night ?
My mother will be glad to see you , ' say the kit rub her soft white face against Blot 's little black breast .
` It 's against the rule to stay out all night , and I promise to be in early ; so , good-by , dear . '
And off trot Blot along the snowy road , hop to get home before the hen-house door be shut .
Faster and faster fell the snow darker and darker grow the night , and colder and colder become poor Blot 's little foot a she wad through the drift .
The firelight be shin out into the gloom , a the half-frozen chicken come into the yard , to find all door shut , and no shelter leave for her but the bough of a leafless tree .
Too stiff and weak to fly up , she creep as close a possible to the bright glow which shone across the door-step , and with a shiver put her little head under her wing , try to forget hunger , weariness , and the bitter cold , and wait patiently for morning .
But when morning come , little Blot lay frozen stiff under a coverlet of snow : and the tender-hearted child sigh a they dig a grave for the last of the unfortunate family of the Clucks .
A CURIOUS CALL .
I have often wonder what the various statue stand about the city think of all day , and what criticisms they would make upon u and our doings , if they could speak .
I frequently stop and stare at them , wonder if they do n't feel lonely ; if they would n't be glad of a nod a we go by ; and I always long to offer my umbrella to shield their uncovered head on a rainy day , especially to good Ben Franklin , when the snow lie white on his benevolent forehead .
I be always fond of this old gentleman ; and one of my favourite story when a little girl , be that of his early life , and the time when he be so poor he walk about Philadelphia with a roll of bread under each arm , eat a third a he go .
I never pass without give him a respectful look , and wish he could know how grateful I be for all he have do in the printing line ; for , without type and press , where would the book be ?
Well , I never imagine that he understand why the tall woman in the big bonnet star at him ; but he do , and he like it , and manage to let me know it in a very curious manner , a you shall hear .
As I look out , the first thing I see be the great gilt eagle on the City-Hall dome .
There he sit , with open wing , all day long , look down on the people , who must appear like ant scamper busily to and fro about an ant-hill .
The sun shine on him splendidly in the morning ; the gay flag wave and rustle in the wind above him sometimes ; and the moonlight turn him to silver when she come glitter up the sky .
When it rain he never shake his feather ; snow beat on him without disturb his stately repose ; and he never put his head under his wing at night , but keep guard in darkness a in day , like a faithful sentinel .
I like the big , lonely bird , call him my particular fowl , and often wish he 'd turn his head and speak to me .
One night he do actually do it , or seem to ; for I 've never be able to decide whether I dream what I 'm go to tell you , or whether it really happen .
It be a stormy night !
and , a I draw down my curtain , I say to myself , after peer through the driving snow to catch a glimpse of my neighbour , ` Poor Goldy !
he 'll have a rough time of it .
I hope this northeaster wo n't blow him off his perch . '
Then I sit down by my fire , take my knitting , and begin to meditate .
I 'm sure I do n't fall asleep ; but I ca n't prove it , so we 'll say no more about it .
All at once there come a tap at my door , a I think ; and I say ` Come in , ' just a Mr. Poe do when that unpleasant raven pay him a call .
No one come , so I go to see who it be .
Not a sign of a human soul in the long hall , only little Jessie , the poodle , asleep on her mat .
Down I sit ; but in a minute the tap come again ; this time so loud that I know it be at the window , and go to open it , think that one of my dove want to come in perhaps .
Up go the sash , and in bounced something so big and so bright that it dazzle and scar me .
` Do n't be frighten , ma'am ; it 's only me , ' say a hoarse voice .
So I collect my wit , rub my eye , and look at my visitor .
It be the gold eagle off the City Hall !
I do n't expect to be believe ; but I wish you 'd be here to see , for I give you my word , it be a sight to behold .
How he ever get in at such a small window I ca n't tell ; but there he be , strut majestically up and down the room , his golden plumage rustling , and his keen eye flash a he walk .
I really do n't know what to do .
I could n't imagine what he come for ; I have my doubt about the propriety of offer him a chair ; and he be so much big than I expect that I be afraid he might fly away with me , a the roc do with Sindbad : so I do nothing but sidle to the door , ready to whisk out , if my strange guest appear to be peckishly incline .
My respectful silence seem to suit him ; for , after a turn or two , he pause , nod gravely , and say affably , ` Good-evening , ma'am .
I step over to bring you old Ben 's respect , and to see how you be get on . '
` I 'm very much oblige , sir .
May I inquire who Mr. Old-Ben be ?
I 'm afraid I have n't the honour of his acquaintance . '
` Yes , you have ; it 's Ben Franklin , of City-Hall yard .
You know him ; and he wish me to thank you for your interest in him . '
` Dear me !
how very odd !
Will you sit down , sir ? '
` Never sit !
I 'll perch here ; ' and the great fowl take his accustomed attitude just in front of the fire , look so very splendid that I could n't keep my eye off of him .
` Ah !
you often do that .
Never mind ; I rather like it , ' say the eagle , graciously , a he turn his brilliant eye upon me .
I be rather abash ; but be very curious , I venture to ask a few question , a he seem in a friendly mood .
` Being a woman , sir , I 'm naturally of an inquiring turn ; and I must confess that I have a strong desire to know how it happen that you take your walk abroad , when you be suppose to be permanently engage at home ? '
He shrug his shoulder , and actually wink at me , a he reply , ` That 's all people know of what go on under , or rather over , their nose .
Bless you , ma'am !
I leave my roost every night , and enjoy myself in all sort of lark .
Excuse the expression ; but , be ornithological , it be more proper for me than for some people who use it . '
` What a gay old bird ! '
thought I , feel quite at home after that .
` Please tell me what you do , when the shade of even prevail , and you go out for a frolic ? ' '
I be a gentleman ; therefore I behave myself , ' return the eagle ; with a stately air . '
I must confess , I smoke a great deal : but that 's not my fault , it 's the fault of the chimney .
They keep it up all day , and I have to take it ; just a you poor lady have to take cigar smoke , whether you like it or not .
My amusement be of a wholesome kind .
I usually begin by take a long flight down the harbour , for a look at the lighthouse , the island , the shipping , and the sea .
My friend , the gull , bring their report to me ; for they be the harbour-police , and I take note of their doings .
The school-ship be an object of interest to me , and I often perch on the mast-head , to see how the lad be get on .
Then I take a turn over the city , gossip with the weathercock , pay my compliment to the bell , inspect the fire-alarm , and pick up information by listen at the telegraph wire .
People often talk about `` a little bird '' who spread news ; but they do n't know how that figure of speech originate .
It be the sparrow sit on the wire , who receive the electric shock , and , be hollow-boned , the news go straight to their head ; they then fly about , chirp it on the housetop , and the air carry it everywhere .
That 's the way rumour rise and news spread . '
` If you 'll allow , I 'll make a note of that interesting fact , ' say I , wonder if I might believe him .
He appear to fall into a reverie while I jot down the sparrow story , and it occur to me that perhaps I ought to offer my distinguish guest some refreshment ; but , when I modestly allude to it , he say , with an aldermanic air , ` No , thank you ; I 've just din at the Parker House . '
Now , I really could not swallow that ; and so plainly betrayed my incredulity , that the eagle explain .
` The savoury smell which rise to my nostril from that excellent hotel , with an occasional sniff from the Tremont , be quite sufficient to satisfy my appetite ; for , have no stomach , I do n't need much food , and I drink nothing but water . ' '
I wish others would follow your example in that latter habit , ' say I , respectfully , for I be begin to see that there be something in my bird , though he be hollow .
` Will you allow me to ask if the other statue in the city fly by night ? '
` They promenade in the park ; and occasionally have social gathering , when they discuss politics , education , medicine , or any of the subject in which they be interested .
Ah !
we have grand time when you be all asleep .
It quite repay me for be oblige to make an owl of myself . '
` Do the statue come from the shop to these party ? '
I ask , resolve to take a late walk the next moonlight night .
` Sometimes ; but they get lazy and delicate , live in close , warm place .
We laugh at cold and bad weather , and be so strong and hearty that I should n't be surprised if I saw Webster and Everett fly round the Common on the new-fashioned velocipede , for they believe in exercise .
Goethe and Schiller often step over from De Vries 's window , to flirt with the goddess , who come down from their niche on Horticultural Hall .
Nice , robust young woman be Pomona and Flora .
If your niminy-piminy girl could see them run , they would stop tilt through the street , and learn that the true Grecian Bend be the line of beauty always find in straight shoulder , well-opened chest , and an upright figure , firmly plant on active foot . '
` In your ramble do n't you find a great deal of misery ? '
say I , to change the subject , for he be evidently old-fashioned in his notion .
` Many sad sight ! '
And he shake his head with a sigh ; then add , briskly , ` But there be a deal of charity in our city , and it do it work beautifully .
By the by , I hear of a very sweet charity the other day , -- a church whose Sunday school be open to all the poor child who will come ; and there , in pleasant room , with book , picture , kindly teacher , and a fatherly minister to welcome them , the poor little creature find refreshment for their hungry soul .
I like that ; it 's a lovely illustration of the text , `` Suffer little child to come unto me ; '' and I call it practical Christianity . '
He do like it , my benevolent old bird ; for he rustle his great wing , a if he want to clap them , if there have only be room ; and every feather shone a if a clearer light than that of my little fire have fall on it a he speak .
` You be a literary woman , hey ? '
he say suddenly , a if he 'd get a new idea , and be go to pounce upon me with it .
` Ahem !
I do a little in that line , ' I answer , with a modest cough .
` Then tell people about that place ; write some story for the child ; go and help teach them ; do something , and make others do what they can to increase the sabbath sunshine that brighten one day in the week for the poor baby who live in shady place . ' '
I should be glad to do my best ; and , if I 'd know before ' -- I begin .
` You might have know , if you 'd look about you .
People be so wrapt up in their own affair they do n't do half they might .
Now , then , hand me a bit of paper , and I 'll give you the address , so you wo n't have any excuse for forget what I tell you . '
` Mercy on u ; what will he do next ? '
thought I , a he tweak a feather out of his breast , give the nib a peck , and then coolly write these word on the card I hand him : ' Church of the Disciples .
Knock and it shall be open !
' There it be , in letter of gold ; and , while I look at it , feel reproach that I have n't know it sooner , my friend , -- he do n't seem a stranger any more , -- say in a business-like tone , a he put back his pen , ` Now I must be off .
Old Ben read an article on the `` Abuses of the Press at the present day , '' and I must be there to report . '
` It must be very interesting .
I suppose you do n't allow mortal at your meeting ? '
say I , burn to go , in spite of the storm .
` No , ma'am .
We meet on the Common ; and , in the present state of the weather , I do n't think flesh and blood would stand it .
Bronze , marble , and wood be sterner stuff , and can defy the element . '
` Good evening ; pray , call again , ' I say , hospitably . '
I will ; your eyrie suit me : but do n't expect me to call in the daytime .
I 'm on duty then , and ca n't take my eye off my charge .
The city need a deal of watching , my dear .
Bless me !
it 's striking eight .
Your watch be seven minute slow by the Old South .
Good-night , good-night ! '
And a I open the window , the great bird soar away like a flash of light through the storm , leave me so astonish at the whole performance that I have n't get over it yet .
TILLY 'S CHRISTMAS .
` I 'm so glad to-morrow be Christmas , because I 'm go to have lot of present . '
` So be I glad , though I do n't expect any present but a pair of mitten . '
` And so be I ; but I sha n't have any present at all . '
As the three little girl trudge home from school they say these thing , and a Tilly speak , both the others look at her with pity and some surprise , for she speak cheerfully , and they wonder how she could be happy when she be so poor she could have no present on Christmas .
` Do n't you wish you could find a purse full of money right here in the path ? '
say Kate , the child who be go to have ` lot of present . '
` Oh , do n't I , if I could keep it honestly ! '
and Tilly 's eye shone at the very thought .
` What would you buy ? '
ask Bessy , rub her cold hand , and long for her mitten .
` I 'd buy a pair of large , warm blanket , a load of wood , a shawl for mother , and a pair of shoe for me ; and if there be enough left , I 'd give Bessy a new hat , and then she need n't wear Ben 's old felt one , ' answer Tilly .
The girl laugh at that ; but Bessy pull the funny hat over her ear , and say she be much oblige but she 'd rather have candy .
` Let 's look , and maybe we can find a purse .
People be always go about with money at Christmas time , and some one may lose it here , ' say Kate .
So , a they go along the snowy road , they look about them , half in earnest , half in fun .
Suddenly Tilly sprang forward , exclaim , -- ' I see it !
I 've find it ! '
The others follow , but all stop disappoint ; for it be n't a purse , it be only a little bird .
It lay upon the snow with it wing spread and feebly fluttering , a if too weak to fly .
Its little foot be benumb with cold ; it once bright eye be dull with pain , and instead of a blithe song , it could only utter a faint chirp , now and then , a if cry for help .
` Nothing but a stupid old robin ; how provoking ! '
cried Kate , sit down to rest . '
I sha n't touch it .
I find one once , and take care of it , and the ungrateful thing fly away the minute it be well , ' say Bessy , creep under Kate 's shawl , and put her hand under her chin to warm them .
` Poor little birdie !
How pitiful he look , and how glad he must be to see some one come to help him !
I 'll take him up gently , and carry him home to mother .
Do n't be frighten , dear , I 'm your friend ; ' and Tilly kneel down in the snow , stretch her hand to the bird , with the tender pity in her face .
Kate and Bessy laugh .
` Do n't stop for that thing ; it 's get late and cold : let 's go on and look for the purse , ' they say move away .
` You would n't leave it to die ! '
cry Tilly .
` I 'd rather have the bird than the money , so I sha n't look any more .
The purse would n't be mine , and I should only be tempt to keep it ; but this poor thing will thank and love me , and I 'm so glad I come in time . '
Gently lift the bird , Tilly felt it tiny cold claw cling to her hand , and saw it dim eye brighten a it nestle down with a grateful chirp .
` Now I 've get a Christmas present after all , ' she say , smile , a they walk on . '
I always want a bird , and this one will be such a pretty pet for me . '
` He 'll fly away the first chance he get , and die anyhow ; so you 'd better not waste your time over him , ' say Bessy .
` He ca n't pay you for take care of him , and my mother say it be n't worth while to help folk that ca n't help u , ' added Kate .
` My mother say , `` Do a you 'd be do by ; '' and I 'm sure I 'd like any one to help me if I be die of cold and hunger .
`` Love your neighbour a yourself , '' be another of her saying .
This bird be my little neighbour , and I 'll love him and care for him , a I often wish our rich neighbour would love and care for u , ' answer Tilly , breathe her warm breath over the benumbed bird , who look up at her with confiding eye , quick to feel and know a friend .
` What a funny girl you be , ' say Kate ; ` caring for that silly bird , and talk about love your neighbour in that sober way .
Mr. King do n't care a bit for you , and never will , though he know how poor you be ; so I do n't think your plan amount to much . ' '
I believe it , though ; and shall do my part , any way .
Good-night .
I hope you 'll have a merry Christmas , and lot of pretty thing , ' answer Tilly , a they part .
Her eye be full , and she felt so poor a she go on alone toward the little old house where she live .
It would have be so pleasant to know that she be go to have some of the pretty thing all child love to find in their full stocking on Christmas morning .
And pleasanter still to have be able to give her mother something nice .
So many comfort be need , and there be no hope of get them ; for they could barely get food and fire .
` Never mind , birdie , we 'll make the best of what we have , and be merry in spite of every thing .
You shall have a happy Christmas , any way ; and I know God wo n't forget u if every one else do . '
She stop a minute to wipe her eye , and lean her cheek against the bird 's soft breast , find great comfort in the little creature , though it could only love her , nothing more .
` See , mother , what a nice present I 've find , ' she cry , go in with a cheery face that be like sunshine in the dark room .
` I 'm glad of that , dearie ; for I have n't be able to get my little girl anything but a rosy apple .
Poor bird !
Give it some of your warm bread and milk . '
` Why , mother , what a big bowlful !
I 'm afraid you give me all the milk , ' say Tilly , smile over the nice , steam supper that stand ready for her .
` I 've have plenty , dear .
Sit down and dry your wet foot , and put the bird in my basket on this warm flannel . '
Tilly peep into the closet and saw nothing there but dry bread .
` Mother 's give me all the milk , and be go without her tea , 'cause she know I 'm hungry .
Now I 'll surprise her , and she shall have a good supper too .
She be go to split wood , and I 'll fix it while she 's go . '
So Tilly put down the old tea-pot , carefully pour out a part of the milk , and from her pocket produce a great , plummy bun , that one of the school-children have give her , and she have save for her mother .
A slice of the dry bread be nicely toast , and the bit of butter set by for her put on it .
When her mother come in there be the table drawn up in a warm place , a hot cup of tea ready , and Tilly and birdie wait for her .
Such a poor little supper , and yet such a happy one ; for love , charity , and contentment be guest there , and that Christmas eve be a blither one than that up at the great house , where light shone , fire blaze , a great tree glitter , and music sound , a the child dance and play .
` We must go to bed early , for we 've only wood enough to last over to-morrow .
I shall be pay for my work the day after , and then we can get some , ' say Tilly 's mother , a they sit by the fire .
` If my bird be only a fairy bird , and would give u three wish , how nice it would be !
Poor dear , he ca n't give me any thing ; but it 's no matter , ' answer Tilly , look at the robin , who lay in the basket with his head under his wing , a mere little feathery bunch .
` He can give you one thing , Tilly , -- the pleasure of do good .
That be one of the sweet thing in life ; and the poor can enjoy it as well a the rich . '
As her mother speak , with her tired hand softly stroke her little daughter 's hair , Tilly suddenly start and point to the window , say , in a frightened whisper , -- ' I saw a face , -- a man 's face , look in !
It 's go now ; but I truly saw it . '
` Some traveller attract by the light perhaps .
I 'll go and see . '
And Tilly 's mother go to the door .
No one be there .
The wind blew cold , the star shone , the snow lay white on field and wood , and the Christmas moon be glitter in the sky .
` What sort of a face be it ? '
ask Tilly 's mother , come back . '
A pleasant sort of face , I think ; but I be so startled I do n't quite know what it be like .
I wish we have a curtain there , ' say Tilly . '
I like to have our light shine out in the evening , for the road be dark and lonely just here , and the twinkle of our lamp be pleasant to people 's eye a they go by .
We can do so little for our neighbour , I be glad to cheer the way for them .
Now put these poor old shoe to dry , and go to bed , dearie ; I 'll come soon . '
Tilly go , take her bird with her to sleep in his basket near by , lest he should be lonely in the night .
Soon the little house be dark and still , and no one saw the Christmas spirit at their work that night .
When Tilly open the door next morning , she give a loud cry , clap her hand , and then stand still ; quite speechless with wonder and delight .
There , before the door , lay a great pile of wood , all ready to burn , a big bundle and a basket , with a lovely nosegay of winter rose , holly , and evergreen tie to the handle .
` Oh , mother !
do the fairy do it ? '
cry Tilly , pale with her happiness , a she seize the basket , while her mother take in the bundle .
` Yes , dear , the best and dear fairy in the world , call `` Charity . ''
She walk abroad at Christmas time , do beautiful deed like this , and do not stay to be thank , ' answer her mother with full eye , a she undo the parcel .
There they be , -- the warm , thick blanket , the comfortable shawl , the new shoe , and , best of all , a pretty winter hat for Bessy .
The basket be full of good thing to eat , and on the flower lay a paper , say , -- ` For the little girl who love her neighbour a herself . '
` Mother , I really think my bird be a fairy bird , and all these splendid thing come from him , ' say Tilly , laugh and cry with joy .
It really do seem so , for a she speak , the robin fly to the table , hop to the nosegay , and perch among the rose , begin to chirp with all his little might .
The sun stream in on flower , bird , and happy child , and no one saw a shadow glide away from the window ; no one ever know that Mr. King have see and hear the little girl the night before , or dream that the rich neighbour have learn a lesson from the poor neighbour .
And Tilly 's bird be a fairy bird ; for by her love and tenderness to the helpless thing , she bring good gift to herself , happiness to the unknown giver of them , and a faithful little friend who do not fly away , but stay with her till the snow be go , make summer for her in the winter-time .
MY LITTLE GENTLEMAN .
No one would have think of call him so , this ragged , barefooted , freckle-faced Jack , who spend his day carry market-baskets for the butcher , or clean clothes for Mrs. Quinn , sell chip , or grub in the ash-heaps for cinder .
But he be honestly earn his living , do his duty as well a he know how , and serve those poor and more helpless than himself , and that be be a gentleman in the best sense of that fine old word .
He have no home but Mrs. Quinn 's garret ; and for this he pay by carry the bundle and get the cinder for her fire .
Food and clothes he pick up a he could ; and his only friend be little Nanny .
Her mother have be kind to him when the death of his father leave him all alone in the world ; and when she , too , pass away , the boy try to show his gratitude by comfort the little girl , who think there be no one in the world like her Jack .
Old Mrs. Quinn take care of her , wait till she be strong enough to work for herself ; but Nanny have be sick , and still sit about , a pale , little shadow of her former self , with a white film slowly come over her pretty blue eye .
This be Jack 's great trouble , and he could n't whistle it away a he do his own worry ; for he be a cheery lad , and when the basket be heavy , the way long , the weather bitter cold , his poor clothes in rag , or his stomach empty , he just whistle , and somehow thing seem to get right .
But the day he carry Nanny the first dandelion , and she felt of them , instead of look at them , a she say , with such pathetic patience in her little face , ' I do n't see 'em ; but I know they 're pretty , and I like 'em lot , ' Jack felt a if the blithe spring sunshine be all spoil ; and when he try to cheer himself up with a good whistle , his lip tremble so they would n't pucker .
` The poor dear 's eye could be cure , I ai n't a doubt ; but it would take a sight of money , and who 's agoing to pay it ? '
say Mrs. Quinn , scrub away at her tub .
` How much money ? '
ask Jack . '
A hundred dollar , I dare say .
Dr. Wilkinson 's cook tell me once that he do something to a lady 's eye , and ask a thousand dollar for it . '
Jack sigh a long , hopeless sigh , and go away to fill the water-pails ; but he remember the doctor 's name , and begin to wonder how many year it would take to earn a hundred dollar .
Nanny be very patient ; but , by and by , Mrs. Quinn begin to talk about send her to some almshouse , for she be too poor to be burden with a helpless child .
The fear of this nearly break Jack 's heart ; and he go about with such an anxious face that it be a mercy Nanny do not see it .
Jack be only twelve , but he have a hard load to carry just then ; for the thought of his little friend , doom to lifelong darkness for want of a little money , tempt him to steal more than once , and give him the first fierce , bitter feeling against those good off than he .
When he carry nice dinner to the great house and saw the plenty that prevail there , he could n't help feeling that it be n't fair for some to have so much , and others so little .
When he saw pretty child play in the park , or drive with their mother , so gay , so well care for , so tenderly love , the poor boy 's eye would fill to think of poor little Nanny , with no friend in the world but himself , and he so powerless to help her .
When he one day muster courage to ring at the great doctor 's bell , beg to see him a minute , and the servant answer , gruffly , a he shut the door , ` Go along !
he ca n't be bother with the like of you ! '
Jack clench his hand hard a he go down the step , and say to himself , with a most unboyish tone , ` I 'll get the money somehow , and make him let me in ! '
He do get it , and in a most unexpected way ; but he never forget the desperate feeling that come to him that day , and all his life long he be very tender to people who be tempt in their time of trouble , and yielded , a he be save from do , by what seem an accident .
Some day after his attempt at the doctor 's , a he be grub in a newly-deposited ash-heap , with the bitter feeling very bad , and the trouble very heavy , he find a dirty old pocket-book , and put it in his bosom without stop to examine it ; for many boy and girl be scratch , like a brood of chicken , all round him , and the picking be unusually good , so no time must be lose .
` Findings be havings ' be one of the law of the ash-heap haunters ; and no one thought of dispute another 's right to the spoon and knife that occasionally find their way into the ash-barrels ; while bottle , old shoe , rag , and paper , be regular article of traffic among them .
Jack get a good basketful that day ; and when the hurry be over sat down to rest and clear the dirt off his face with an old silk duster which he have pick out of the rubbish , think Mrs. Quinn might wash it up for a handkerchief .
But he do n't wipe his dirty face that day ; for , with the rag , out tumble a pocket-book ; and on open it he saw -- money .
Yes ; a roll of bill with two figure on all of them , -- three ten and one twenty .
It take his breath away for a minute ; then he hug the old book tight in both his grimy hand , and rock to and fro all in a heap among the oyster-shells and rusty tin kettle , say to himself , with tear run down his cheek , ' O Nanny !
O Nanny !
now I can do it ! '
I do n't think a basket of cinder ever travel at such a rate before a Mrs. Quinn 's do that day ; for Jack tear home at a great pace , and burst into the room , wave the old duster , and shout , ` Hooray !
I 've get it !
I 've get it ! '
It be no wonder Mrs. Quinn think he have lose his wit ; for he look like a wild boy , with his face all streak with tear and red ash , a he dance a double-shuffle till he be breathless , then shower the money into Nanny 's lap , and hug her with another ` Hooray ! '
which end in a choke .
When they get him quiet and hear the story , Mrs. Quinn rather damp his joy , by tell him the money be n't his , and he ought to advertise it .
` But I want it for Nanny ! '
cried Jack ; ` and how can I ever find who own it , when there be ever so many barrel empty in that heap , and no one know where they come from ? '
` It 's very like you wo n't find the owner , and you can do a you please ; but it 's honest to try , I 'm think , for some poor girl may have lose her earnin 's this way , and we would n't like that ourselves , ' say Mrs. Quinn , turn over the shabby pocket-book , and carefully search for some clue to it owner .
Nanny look very sober , and Jack grab up the money a if it be too precious to lose .
But he be n't comfortable about it ; and after a hard fight with himself he consent to let Mrs. Quinn ask their policeman what they should do .
He be a kindly man ; and when he hear the story , say he 'd do what be right , and if he could n't find an owner , Jack should have the fifty dollar back .
How hard it be to wait !
how Jack thought and dreamed of his money , day and night !
How Nanny run to the door to listen when a heavy step come up the stair !
and how wistfully the poor darkened eye turn to the light which they long to see again .
Honest John Floyd do his duty , but he do n't find the owner ; so the old purse come back at last , and now Jack could keep it with a clear conscience .
Nanny be asleep when it happen ; and a they sit count the dingy bill , Mrs. Quinn say to the boy , ` Jack , you 'd better keep this for yourself .
I doubt if it 's enough to do the child any good ; and you need clothes and shoe , and a heap of thing , let alone the book you hanker after so much .
It ai n't likely you 'll ever find another wallet .
It 's all luck about Nanny 's eye ; and maybe you be only throw away a chance you 'll never have again . '
Jack lean his head on his arm and star at the money , all spread out there , and look so magnificent to him that it seem a if it could buy half the world .
He do need clothes ; his hearty boy 's appetite do long for good food ; and , oh !
how splendid it would be to go and buy the book he have want so long , -- the book that would give him a taste of the knowledge which be more enticing to his wide-awake young mind than clothes and food to his poor little body .
It be n't an easy thing to do ; but he be so used to make small sacrifice that the great one be less hard ; and when he have brood over the money a few minute in thoughtful silence , his eye go from the precious bit of paper to the dear little face in the trundle-bed , and he say , with a decided nod , ` I 'll give Nanny the chance , and work for my thing , or go without 'em . '
Mrs. Quinn be a matter-of-fact body ; but her hard old face soften when he say that , and she kiss him good-night almost as gently a if she 'd be his mother .
Next day , Jack present himself at Dr. Wilkinson 's door , with the money in one hand and Nanny in the other , say boldly to the gruff servant , ' I want to see the doctor .
I can pay ; so you 'd better let me in . '
I 'm afraid cross Thomas would have shut the door in the boy 's face again , if it have not be for the little blind girl , who look up at him so imploringly that he could n't resist the mute appeal .
` The doctor 's go out ; but maybe he 'll see you a minute ; ' and with that he lead them into a room where stand a tall man put on his glove .
Jack be a modest boy ; but he be so afraid that Nanny would lose her chance , that he forget himself , and tell the little story as fast a he could -- tell it well , too , I fancy ; for the doctor listen attentively , his eye go from the boy 's eager , flush face , to the pale patient one beside him , a if the two little figure , shabby though they be , illustrate the story well than the fine artist could have do .
When Jack end , the doctor sit Nanny on his knee , gently lift up the half-shut eyelid , and after examine the film a minute , stroke her pretty hair , and say so kindly that she nestle her little hand confidingly into his , ' I think I can help you , my dear .
Tell me where you live , and I 'll attend to it at once , for it 's high time something be do . '
Jack tell him , add , with a manly air , a he show the money , ' I can pay you , sir , if fifty dollar be enough . '
` Quite enough , ' say the doctor , with a droll smile .
` If it be n't , I 'll work for the rest , if you 'll trust me .
Please save Nanny 's eye , and I 'll do any thing to pay you ! '
cry Jack , get red and choky in his earnestness .
The doctor stop smile , and hold out his hand in a grave , respectful way , a he say , ` I 'll trust you , my boy .
We 'll cure Nanny first ; and you and I will settle the bill afterward . '
Jack like that ; it be a gentlemanly way of do thing , and he show his satisfaction by smile all over his face , and give the big , white hand a hearty shake with both his rough one .
The doctor be a busy man ; but he keep them some time , for there be no child in the fine house , and it seem pleasant to have a little girl sit on his knee and a bright boy stand beside his chair ; and when , at last , they go away , they look a if he have give them some magic medicine , which make them forget every trouble they have ever know .
Next day the kind man come to give Nanny her chance .
She have no doubt , and very little fear , but look up at him so confidingly when all be ready , that he stoop down and kiss her softly before he touch her eye .
` Let Jack hold my hand ; then I 'll be still , and not mind if it hurt me , ' she say .
So Jack , pale with anxiety , kneel down before her , and keep the little hand steadily in his all through the minute that seem so long to him .
` What do you see , my child ? '
ask the doctor , when he have do something to both eye with a quick , skilful hand .
Nanny lean forward , with the film all go , and answer , with a little cry of joy , that go to the heart of those who hear it , ` Jack 's face !
I see it !
oh , I see it ! '
Only a freckle , round face , with wet eye and tightly-set lip ; but to Nanny it be as beautiful a the face of an angel ; and when she be lay away with bandaged eye to rest , it haunt all her dream , for it be the face of the little friend who love her best .
Nanny 's chance be not a failure ; and when she saw the next dandelion he bring her , all the sunshine come back into the world brighter than ever for Jack .
Well might it seem so ; for his fifty dollar buy him many thing that money seldom buy .
The doctor would n't take it at first ; but when Jack say , in the manful tone the doctor like although it make him smile , ` It be a bargain , sir .
I wish to pay my debt ; and I sha n't feel happy if Nanny do n't have it all for her eye .
Please do !
I 'd rather , ' -- then he take it ; and Nanny do have it , not only for her eye , but in clothes and food and care , many time over ; for it be invest in a bank that pay good interest on every mite so give .
Jack discover that fifty dollar be far less than most people would have have to pay , and beg earnestly to be allow to work for the rest .
The doctor agree to this , and Jack become his errand-boy , serve with a willingness that make a pleasure of duty ; soon find that many comfort quietly get into his life ; that much help be give without word ; and that the day of hunger and rag , heavy burden and dusty ash-heaps , be go by for ever .
The happy hour of Jack 's day be spend in the doctor 's chaise , when he make his round of visit ; for while he wait , the boy study or read , and while they drive hither and thither , the doctor talk with him , find an eager mind as well a a tender heart and a brave spirit under the rough jacket of his little serving-man .
But he never call him that ; for remember the cheerfulness , self-denial , honesty , and loyalty to those he love , show by the boy , the good doctor prove his respect for the virtue all men should covet , wherever they be find , and always speak of Jack with a smile , a ` My Little Gentleman . '
BACK WINDOWS .
As I sit work at my back window , I look out on a long row of other people 's back windows ; and it be quite impossible for me to help seeing and be interested in my neighbour .
There be a good many child in those house ; and though I do n't know one of their name , I know them a great deal good than they think I do .
I never speak a word to any of them , and never expect to do so ; yet I have my like and dislike among them , and could tell them thing that they have say and do , which would astonish them very much , I assure you .
First , the baby , -- for there be three : the aristocratic baby , the happy-go-lucky baby , and the forlorn baby .
The aristocratic baby life in a fine , well-furnished room , have a pretty little mamma , who wear white gown , and pink ribbon in her cap ; likewise , a fond young papa , who evidently think this the most wonderful baby in Boston .
There be a stout , motherly lady , who be the grandma , I fancy , for she be always hover about ` the dear ' with cup , blanket , or a gorgeous red worst bird to amuse it .
Baby be a plump , rosy , sweet-faced little creature , always smile and kiss it hand to the world in general .
In it pretty white frock , with it own little pink or blue ribbon , and it young mamma proudly hold it up to see and be see , my aristocratic neighbour have an easy life of it , and be evidently one of the little lily who do nothing but blossom in the sunshine .
The happy-go-lucky baby be just able to toddle ; and I seldom pull up my curtain in the morning without see him at his window in his yellow flannel night-gown , take a look at the weather .
No matter whether it rain or shine , there he be , smile and nodding , and look so merry , that it be evident he have plenty of sunshine bottle up in his own little heart for private use .
I depend on see him , and feel a if the world be not right until this golden little sun rise to shine upon me .
He do n't seem to have any one to take care of him , but trot about all day , and take care of himself .
Sometimes he be up in the chamber with the girl , while she make bed , and he help ; then he take a stroll into the parlour , and spin the gay curtain-tassels to his heart 's content ; next , he dive into the kitchen -LRB- I hope he do not tumble downstairs , but I dare say he would n't mind if he do -RRB- , and he get push about by all the busy woman , a they ` fly round . '
I rather think it get too hot for him there about dinner-time ; for he often come out into the yard for a walk at noon , and seem to find endless wonder and delight in the ash barrel , the water-but , two old flower-pots , and a little grass plat , in which he plant a choice variety of article , in the firm faith they will come up in full bloom .
I hope the big spoon and his own red shoe will sprout and appear before any trouble be make about their mysterious disappearance .
At night I see a little shadow bob about on the curtain , and watch it , till with a parting glimpse at a sleepy face at the window , my small sun set , and I leave him to his dream .
The forlorn baby roar all day , and I do n't blame him ; for he be trot , shake , spank , and scold by a very cross nurse , who treat him like a meal bag .
I pity that little neighbour , and do n't believe he will stand it long ; for I see him double up his tiny fist , and spar away at nothing , a if get ready for a good tussle with the world by and by , if he live to try it .
Then the boy , -- bless their button !
-- how amusing they be .
One young man , age about ten , keep hen ; and the trial of that boy be really pathetic .
The biddy get out every day or two , and fly away all over the neighbourhood , like feather when you shake a pillow .
They cackle and crow , and get up on shed and fence , and trot down the street , all at once , and that poor fellow spin round after them like a distracted top .
One by one he get them and come lug them back , upside down , in the most undignified attitude , and shut them up , and hammer away , and think they be all safe , and sit down to rest , when a triumphant crow from some neighbour shed tell him that that rascally black rooster be out again for another promenade .
I 'm not blood-thirsty ; but I really do long for Thanksgiving that my neighbour Henry may find rest for the sole of his foot ; for , not till his poultry be safely eaten will he ever know where they be .
Another boy have a circus about once a week , and try to break his neck jump through hoop , hang to a rope by his heel , turn somersault in the air , and frighten his mother out of her wit by his prank .
I suspect that he have be to see Leotard , and I admire his energy , for he be never discourage ; and , after tumble flat , half-a-dozen time , he merely rub his elbow and knee , and then up and take another .
There be a good , domestic boy , who brush and curl his three little sister ' hair every morning , and must do it very gently , for they seem to like it ; and I often see them watch at the back gate for him , and clap their hand , and run to meet him , sure of be welcome a little sister like to be meet by the big brother whom they love .
I respect that virtuous boy .
The naughty boy be very funny ; and the running fight he keep up with the cross cook be as good a a farce .
He be a torment , but I think she could tame him , if she take the right way .
The other day she would n't let him in because she have wash up her kitchen and his boot be muddy .
He wipe them on the grass , but that would n't do ; and , after go at her with his head down , like a battering ram , he give it up , or seem to ; for , the minute she lock the door behind her and come out to take in her clothes , that sly dog whip up one of the low window , scramble in , and dance a hornpipe all over the kitchen , while the fat cook scold and fumble for her key , for she could n't follow through the window .
Of course he be off upstairs by the time she get in ; but I 'm afraid he have a shaking , for I saw him glower fiercely a he come out later with a basket , go some ` confounded errand . '
Occasionally his father bring him out and whip him for some extra bad offence , during which performance he howl dismally ; but when he be leave sit despondently and miraculously on an old chair without any seat , he soon cheer up , boo at a strange cat , whistle to his dog , -- who be just like him , -- or fall back on that stand cure for all the ill that boy be heir to , and whittle vigorously .
I know I ought to frown upon this reprehensible young person , and morally close my eye to his prank ; but I really ca n't do it , and be afraid I find this little black sheep the most interesting of the flock .
The girl have tea-parties , make call , and play mother , of course ; and the sister of the good boy have capital time up in a big nursery , with such large dolly that I can hardly tell which be the baby and which the mamma .
One little girl play about at home with a dirty face , tumble hair , and an old pinafore on .
She wo n't be make tidy , and I see her kick and cry when they try to make her neat .
Now and then there be a great dressing and curling ; and then I see her prance away in her light boot , smart hat , and pretty dress , look as fresh a a daisy .
But I do n't admire her ; for I 've be behind the scene , you see , and I know that she like to be fine rather than neat .
So be the girl who torment her kitty , slap her sister , and run away when her mother tell her not to go out of the yard .
But the house-wifely little girl who tend the baby , wash the cup , and go to school early with a sunshiny face and kiss all round , she , now , be a neighbour worth have , and I 'd put a good mark against her name if I know it .
I do n't know a it would be proper for me to mention the grown-up people over the way .
They go on very much a the child do ; for there be the lazy , dandified man , who get up late , and drink ; the cross man , who swear at the shed-door when it wo n't shut ; the fatherly man , who sit among his child every evening , and the cheery old man up in the attic , who have a flower in his window , and look out at the world with very much the same serene smile a my orange-coloured baby .
The woman , too , keep house , make call , and play mother ; and some do n't do it well either .
The forlorn baby 's mamma never seem to cuddle and comfort him ; and some day , when the little fist lie cold and quiet , I 'm afraid she 'll wish she have .
Then the naughty boy 's mother .
I 'm very sure , if she put her arm round him sometimes , and smooth that rough head of his , and speak to him a only mother can speak , that it would tame him far well than the scolding and thrashing : for I know there be a true boy 's heart , warm and tender , somewhere under the jacket that get dust so often .
As for the fine lady who let her child do a they can , while she trim her bonnet , or make pannier , I would n't be introduce to her on any account .
But a some might think it be unjustifiable curiosity on my part to see these thing , and an actionable offence to speak of them , I wo n't mention them .
I sometimes wonder if the kind spirit who feel an interest in mortal ever take a look at u on the shady side which we do n't show the world , see the trouble , vanity , and sin which we think no one know .
If they love , pity , or condemn u ?
What record they keep , and what reward they prepare for those who be so busy with their work and play that they forget who may be watch their back windows with clear eye and truer charity than any inquisitive old lady with a pen in her hand ?
LITTLE MARIE OF LEHON .
` Here come our pretty little girl , ' I say to Kate , a we sit rest on the seat beside the footpath that lead from Dinan on the hill to Lehon in the valley .
Yes , there she be , trot toward u in her round cap , blue woollen gown , white apron , and wooden shoe .
On her head be a loaf of buckwheat bread as big a a small wheel , in one hand a basket full of green stuff , while the other lead an old goat , who seem in no hurry to get home .
We have often see this rosy , bright-eyed child , have nod to her , but never speak , for she look rather shy , and always seem in haste .
Now the sight of the goat remind u of an excuse for address her , and a she be about to pass with the respectful little curtsey of the country , my friend say in French : -- ` Stay please .
I want to speak to you . '
She stop at once and stand look at u under her long eyelash in a timid yet confide way , very pretty to see .
` We want to drink goat 's milk every morning : can you let u have it , little one ? '
` Oh , yes , mademoiselle !
Nannette give fine milk , and no one have yet engage her , ' answer the child , her whole face brightening at the prospect .
` What name have you ? '
` Marie Rosier , mademoiselle . '
` And you live at Lehon ? '
` Yes , mademoiselle . '
` Have you parent ? '
` Truly , yes , of the best .
My father have a loom , my mother work in the field and mill with brother Yvon , and I go to school and care for Nannette and nurse little Bebe . '
` What school ? '
` At the convent , mademoiselle .
The good sister teach u the catechism , also to write and read and sew .
I like it much , ' and Marie glance at the little prayer in her apron pocket , a if proud to show she could read it .
` What age have you ? '
` Ten year , mademoiselle . '
` You be young to do so much , for we often see you in the market buying and selling , and sometimes dig in your garden there below , and bring water from the river .
Do you love work as well a school ? '
` Ah , no ; but mademoiselle know it be necessary to work : every one do , and I 'm glad to do my part .
Yvon work much hard than I , and the father sit all day at his loom , yet he be sick and suffers much .
Yes , I be truly glad to help , ' and little Marie settle the big loaf a if quite ready to bear her share of the burden .
` Shall we go and see your father about the goat ?
and if he agree will you bring the milk fresh and warm every morning ? '
I ask , think that a sight of that bloom face would brighten our day for u .
` Oh , yes !
I always do it for the lady , and you will find the milk quite fresh and warm , hey , Nannette ? '
