`` And there 's Melita Ross , '' go on Peg .
`` She 's get the same bonnet on she have last time I be in Carlisle church six year ago .
Some folk have the knack of make thing last .
But look at the style Mrs. Elmer Brewer wear , will yez ?
Yez would n't think her mother die in the poor-house , would yez , now ? ''
Poor Mrs . Brewer !
From the tip of her smart kid shoe to the dainty cluster of ostrich tip in her bonnet -- she be most immaculately and handsomely array ; but I venture to think she could have take small pleasure in her fashionable attire that even .
Some of the unregenerate , include Dan , be shake with suppressed laughter , but most of the people look a if they be afraid to smile , l their turn should come next .
`` There 's old Stephen Grant come in , '' exclaim Peg viciously , shake her floury fist at him , `` and look a if butter would n't melt in his mouth .
He may be an elder , but he 's a scoundrel just the same .
He set fire to his house to get the insurance and then blame ME for do it .
But I get even with him for it .
Oh , yes !
He know that , and so do I !
He , he ! ''
Peg chuckle quite fiendishly and Stephen Grant try to look a if nothing have be say .
`` Oh , will the minister never come ? ''
moan Felicity in my ear .
`` Surely she 'll have to stop then . ''
But the minister do not come and Peg have no intention of stopping .
`` There 's Maria Dean . ''
she resume .
`` I have n't see Maria for year .
I never call there for she never seem to have anything to eat in the house .
She be a Clayton and the Claytons never could cook .
Maria sorter look a if she 'd shrunk in the wash , now , do n't she ?
And there 's Douglas Nicholson .
His brother put rat poison in the family pancake .
Nice little trick that , be n't it ?
They say it be by mistake .
I hope it WAS a mistake .
His wife be all rig out in silk .
Yez would n't think to look at her she be marry in cotton -- and mighty thankful to get marry in anything , it 's my opinion .
There 's Timothy Patterson .
He 's the mean man alive -- meaner 'n Sam Kinnaird even .
Timothy pay his child five cent apiece to go without their supper , and then steal the cent out of their pocket after they 've go to bed .
It 's a fact .
And when his old father die he would n't let his wife put his best shirt on him .
He say his second best be plenty good to be bury in .
That 's another fact . ''
`` I ca n't stand much more of this , '' wail Felicity .
`` See here , Miss Bowen , you really ought n't to talk like that about people , '' expostulate Peter in a low tone , goad thereto , despite his awe of Peg , by Felicity 's anguish .
`` Bless you , boy , '' say Peg good-humouredly , `` the only difference between me and other folk be that I say these thing out loud and they just think them .
If I tell yez all the thing I know about the people in this congregation you 'd be amaze .
Have a peppermint ? ''
To our horror Peg produce a handful of peppermint lozenge from the pocket of her skirt and offer u one each .
We do not dare refuse but we each hold our lozenge very gingerly in our hand .
`` Eat them , '' command Peg rather fiercely .
`` Mother do n't allow u to eat candy in church , '' falter Felicity .
`` Well , I 've see just a fine lady a your ma give their child lozenges in church , '' say Peg loftily .
She put a peppermint in her own mouth and suck it with gusto .
We be relieve , for she do not talk during the process ; but our relief be of short duration .
A bevy of three very smartly dress young lady , sweep past our pew , start Peg off again .
`` Yez need n't be so stuck up , '' she say , loudly and derisively .
`` Yez be all of yez rock in a flour barrel .
And there 's old Henry Frewen , still above ground .
I call my parrot after him because their nose be exactly alike .
Look at Caroline Marr , will yez ?
That 's a woman who 'd like pretty well to get married , And there 's Alexander Marr .
He 's a real Christian , anyhow , and so 's his dog .
I can always size up what a man 's religion amount to by the kind of dog he keep .
Alexander Marr be a good man . ''
It be a relief to hear Peg speak well of somebody ; but that be the only exception she make .
`` Look at Dave Fraser strutting in , '' she go on .
`` That man have thank God so often that he be n't like other people that it 's come to be true .
He be n't !
And there 's Susan Frewen .
She 's jealous of everybody .
She 's even jealous of Old Man Rogers because he 's bury in the best spot in the graveyard .
Seth Erskine have the same look he be bear with .
They say the Lord make everybody but I believe the devil make all the Erskines . ''
`` She 's get bad all the time .
What WILL she say next ? ''
whispered poor Felicity .
But her martyrdom be over at last .
The minister appear in the pulpit and Peg subside into silence .
She fold her bare , floury arm over her breast and fasten her black eye on the young preacher .
Her behaviour for the next half-hour be decorum itself , save that when the minister pray that we might all be charitable in judgment Peg ejaculate `` Amen '' several time , loudly and forcibly , somewhat to the discomfiture of the Young man , to whom Peg be a stranger .
He open his eye , glance at our pew in a startled way , then collect himself and go on .
Peg listen to the sermon , silently and motionlessly , until Mr. Davidson be half through .
Then she suddenly get on her foot .
`` This be too dull for me , '' she exclaim .
`` I want something more exciting . ''
Mr. Davidson stop short and Peg march down the aisle in the midst of complete silence .
Half way down the aisle she turn around and face the minister .
`` There be so many hypocrite in this church that it be n't fit for decent people to come to , '' she say .
`` Rather than be such hypocrite a most of you be it would be good for you to go mile into the wood and commit suicide . ''
Wheeling about , she stride to the door .
Then she turn for a Parthian shot .
`` I 've felt kind of worried for God sometimes , see He have so much to attend to , '' she say , `` but I see I need n't be , so long 's there 's plenty of minister to tell Him what to do . ''
With that Peg shake the dust of Carlisle church from her foot .
Poor Mr. Davidson resume his discourse .
Old Elder Bayley , whose attention an earthquake could not have distract from the sermon , afterwards declare that it be an excellent and edify exhortation , but I doubt if anyone else in Carlisle church taste it much or gain much good therefrom .
Certainly we of the King household do not .
We could not even remember the text when we reach home .
Felicity be comfortless .
`` Mr. Davidson would be sure to think she belong to our family when she be in our pew , '' she say bitterly .
`` Oh , I feel a if I could never get over such a mortification !
Peter , I do wish you would n't go tell people they ought to go to church .
It 's all your fault that this happen . ''
`` Never mind , it will be a good story to tell sometime , '' remark the Story Girl with relish .
CHAPTER XXII .
THE YANKEE STORM In an August orchard six child and a grown-up be sit around the pulpit stone .
The grown-up be Miss Reade , who have be up to give the girl their music lesson and have consent to stay to tea , much to the rapture of the say girl , who continue to worship her with unabated and romantic ardour .
To u , over the golden grass , come the Story Girl , carry in her hand a single large poppy , like a blood-red chalice fill with the wine of August wizardry .
She proffer it to Miss Reade and , a the latter take it into her singularly slender , beautiful hand , I saw a ring on her third finger .
I notice it , because I have hear the girl say that Miss Reade never wear ring , not like them .
It be not a new ring ; it be handsome , but of an old-fashioned design and setting , with a glint of diamond about a central sapphire .
Later on , when Miss Reade have go , I ask the Story Girl if she have notice the ring .
She nod , but seem disincline to say more about it .
`` Look here , Sara , '' I say , `` there 's something about that ring -- something you know . ''
`` I tell you once there be a story grow but you would have to wait until it be fully grow , '' she answer .
`` Is Miss Reade go to marry anybody -- anybody we know ? ''
I persist .
`` Curiosity kill a cat , '' observe the Story Girl coolly .
`` Miss Reade have n't tell me that she be go to marry anybody .
You will find out all that be good for you to know in due time . ''
When the Story Girl put on grown-up air I do not like her so well , and I drop the subject with a dignity that seem to amuse her mightily .
She have be away for a week , visit cousin in Markdale , and she have come home with a new treasure-trove of story , most of which she have hear from the old sailor of Markdale Harbour .
She have promise that morning to tell u of `` the most tragic event that have ever be know on the north shore , '' and we now remind her of her promise .
`` Some call it the ` Yankee Storm , ' and others the ` American Gale , ' '' she begin , sit down by Miss Reade and beaming , because the latter put her arm around her waist .
`` It happen nearly forty year ago , in October of 1851 .
Old Mr. Coles at the Harbour tell me all about it .
He be a young man then and he say he can never forget that dreadful time .
You know in those day hundred of American fishing schooner use to come down to the Gulf every summer to fish mackerel .
On one beautiful Saturday night in this October of 1851 , more than one hundred of these vessel could be count from Markdale Capes .
By Monday night more than seventy of them have be destroy .
Those which have escape be mostly those which go into harbour Saturday night , to keep Sunday .
Mr. Coles say the rest stay outside and fished all day Sunday , same a through the week , and HE say the storm be a judgment on them for do it .
But he admit that even some of them get into harbour later on and escape , so it 's hard to know what to think .
But it be certain that on Sunday night there come up a sudden and terrible storm -- the bad , Mr. Coles say , that have ever be know on the north shore .
It last for two day and score of vessel be drive ashore and completely wreck .
The crew of most of the vessel that go ashore on the sand beach be save , but those that strike on the rock go to piece and all hand be lose .
For week after the storm the north shore be strew with the body of drowned men .
Think of it !
Many of them be unknown and unrecognizable , and they be bury in Markdale graveyard .
Mr. Coles say the schoolmaster who be in Markdale then write a poem on the storm and Mr. Coles recite the first two verse to me . ''
` Here be the fisher ' hillside graf , The church beside , the wood around , Below , the hollow moaning wave Where the poor fisherman be drown . '' '
A sudden tempest the blue welkin tore , The seaman toss and torn apart Rolled with the seaweed to the shore While landsman gaze with ache heart . '
`` Mr. Coles could n't remember any more of it .
But the sad of all the story of the Yankee Storm be the one about the Franklin Dexter .
The Franklin Dexter go ashore on the Markdale Capes and all on board perish , the Captain and three of his brother among them .
These four young men be the son of an old man who live in Portland , Maine , and when he hear what have happen he come right down to the Island to see if he could find their body .
They have all come ashore and have be bury in Markdale graveyard ; but he be determine to take them up and carry them home for burial .
He say he have promise their mother to take her boy home to her and he must do it .
So they be take up and put on board a sail vessel at Markdale Harbour to be take back to Maine , while the father himself go home on a passenger steamer .
The name of the sail vessel be the Seth Hall , and the captain 's name be Seth Hall , too .
Captain Hall be a dreadfully profane man and use to swear blood-curdling oath .
On the night he sail out of Markdale Harbour the old sailor warn him that a storm be brew and that it would catch him if he do not wait until it be over .
The captain have become very impatient because of several delay he have already meet with , and he be in a furious temper .
He swear a wicked oath that he would sail out of Markdale Harbour that night and ` God Almighty Himself should n't catch him . '
He do sail out of the harbour ; and the storm do catch him , and the Seth Hall go down with all hand , the dead and the living find a watery grave together .
So the poor old mother up in Maine never have her boy bring back to her after all .
Mr. Coles say it seem a if it be foreordain that they should not rest in a grave , but should lie beneath the wave until the day when the sea give up it dead . '' ''
` They sleep as well beneath that purple tide As others under turf , ' '' quote Miss Reade softly .
`` I be very thankful , '' she add , `` that I be not one of those whose dear one ` go down to the sea in ship . '
It seem to me that they have treble their share of this world 's heartache . ''
`` Uncle Stephen be a sailor and he be drown , '' say Felicity , `` and they say it break Grandmother King 's heart .
I do n't see why people ca n't be content on dry land . ''
Cecily 's tear have be drop on the autograph quilt square she be faithfully embroider .
She have be diligently collect name for it ever since the precede autumn and have a goodly number ; but Kitty Marr have one more and this be certainly a fly in Cecily 's ointment .
`` Besides , one I 've get be n't pay for -- Peg Bowen 's , '' she lament , `` and I do n't suppose it ever will be , for I 'll never dare to ask her for it . ''
`` I would n't put it on at all , '' say Felicity .
`` Oh , I do n't dare not to .
She 'd be sure to find out I do n't and then she 'd be very angry .
I wish I could get just one more name and then I 'd be content .
But I do n't know of a single person who have n't be ask already . ''
`` Except Mr. Campbell , '' say Dan .
`` Oh , of course nobody would ask Mr. Campbell .
We all know it would be of no use .
He do n't believe in mission at all -- in fact , he say he detest the very mention of mission -- and he never give one cent to them . ''
`` All the same , I think he ought to be ask , so that he would n't have the excuse that nobody DID ask him , '' declare Dan .
`` Do you really think so , Dan ? ''
ask Cecily earnestly .
`` Sure , '' say Dan , solemnly .
Dan like to tease even Cecily a wee bit now and then .
Cecily relapse into anxious thought , and care sit visibly on her brow for the rest of the day .
Next morning she come to me and say : `` Bev , would you like to go for a walk with me this afternoon ? ''
`` Of course , '' I reply .
`` Any particular where ? ''
`` I 'm go to see Mr. Campbell and ask him for his name for my square , '' say Cecily resolutely .
`` I do n't suppose it will do any good .
He would n't give anything to the library last summer , you remember , till the Story Girl tell him that story about his grandmother .
She wo n't go with me this time -- I do n't know why .
I ca n't tell a story and I 'm frightened to death just to think of go to him .
But I believe it be my duty ; and besides I would love to get a many name on my square a Kitty Marr have .
So if you 'll go with me we 'll go this afternoon .
I simply COULD N'T go alone . ''
CHAPTER XXIII .
A MISSIONARY HEROINE Accordingly , that afternoon we beard the lion in his den .
The road we take be a beautiful one , for we go `` cross lot , '' and we enjoy it , in spite of the fact that we do not expect the interview with Mr. Campbell to be a very pleasant one .
To be sure , he have be quite civil on the occasion of our last call upon him , but the Story Girl have be with u then and have beguile him into good-humour and generosity by the magic of her voice and personality .
We have no such ally now , and Mr. Campbell be know to be virulently oppose to mission in any shape or form .
`` I do n't know whether it would have be any good if I could have put on my good clothes , '' say Cecily , with a rueful glance at her print dress , which , though neat and clean , be undeniably fade and RATHER short and tight .
`` The Story Girl say it would , and I want to , but mother would n't let me .
She say it be all nonsense , and Mr. Campbell would never notice what I have on . ''
`` It 's my opinion that Mr. Campbell notice a good deal more than you 'd think for , '' I say sagely .
`` Well , I wish our call be over , '' sigh Cecily .
`` I ca n't tell you how I dread it . ''
`` Now , see here , Sis , '' I say cheerfully , `` let 's not think about it till we get there .
It 'll only spoil our walk and do no good .
Let 's just forget it and enjoy ourselves . ''
`` I 'll try , '' agree Cecily , `` but it 's ever so much easy to preach than to practise . ''
Our way lay first over a hill top , gallantly plume with golden rod , where cloud shadow drift over u like a gypsying crew .
Carlisle , in all it ripely tint length and breadth , lay below u , bask in the August sunshine , that spill over the brim of the valley to the far-off Markdale Harbour , cup in it harvest-golden hill .
Then come a little valley overgrown with the pale purple bloom of thistle and elusively haunt with their perfume .
You say that thistle have no perfume ?
Go you to a brook hollow where they grow some late summer twilight at dewfall ; and on the still air that rise suddenly to meet you will come a waft of faint , aromatic fragrance , wondrously sweet and evasive , the distillation of that despise thistle bloom .
Beyond this the path wound through a forest of fir , where a wood wind weave it murmurous spell and a wood brook dimple pellucidly among the shadow -- the dear , companionable , elfin shadow -- that lurk under the low grow bough .
Along the edge of that wind path grow bank of velvet green moss , star with cluster of pigeon berry .
Pigeon berry be not to be eat .
They be woolly , tasteless thing .
But they be to be look at in their glowing scarlet .
They be the jewel with which the forest of cone-bearers love to deck it brown breast .
Cecily gather some and pin them on hers , but they do not become her .
I think how witch the Story Girl 's brown curl would have look twin with those brilliant cluster .
Perhaps Cecily be think of it , too , for she presently say , `` Bev , do n't you think the Story Girl be change somehow ? ''
`` There be time -- just time -- when she seem to belong more among the grown-ups than among u , '' I say , reluctantly , `` especially when she put on her bridesmaid dress . ''
`` Well , she 's the old of u , and when you come to think of it , she 's fifteen , -- that 's almost grown-up , '' sigh Cecily .
Then she add , with sudden vehemence , `` I hate the thought of any of u grow up .
Felicity say she just longs to be grown-up , but I do n't , not a bit .
I wish I could just stay a little girl for ever -- and have you and Felix and all the others for playmate right along .
I do n't know how it be -- but whenever I think of be grown-up I seem to feel tired . ''
Something about Cecily 's speech -- or the wistful look that have creep into her sweet brown eye -- make me feel vaguely uncomfortable ; I be glad that we be at the end of our journey , with Mr. Campbell 's big house before u , and his dog sit gravely at the veranda step .
`` Oh , dear , '' say Cecily , with a shiver , `` I 'd be hop that dog would n't be around . ''
`` He never bite , '' I assure her .
`` Perhaps he do n't , but he always look a if he be go to , '' rejoin Cecily .
The dog continue to look , and , a we edge gingerly past him and up the veranda step , he turn his head and kept on look .
What with Mr. Campbell before u and the dog behind , Cecily be tremble with nervousness ; but perhaps it be as well that the dour brute be there , else I verily believe she would have turn and flee shamelessly when we hear step in the hall .
It be Mr. Campbell 's housekeeper who come to the door , however ; she usher u pleasantly into the sitting-room where Mr. Campbell be read .
He lay down his book with a slight frown and say nothing at all in response to our timid `` good afternoon . ''
But after we have sit for a few minute in wretched silence , wish ourselves a thousand mile away , he say , with a chuckle , `` Well , be it the school library again ? ''
Cecily have remark a we be come that what she dread most of all be introduce the subject ; but Mr. Campbell have give her a splendid opening , and she plunge wildly in at once , rattle her explanation off nervously with tremble voice and flushed cheek .
`` No , it 's our Mission Band autograph quilt , Mr. Campbell .
There be to be a many square in it a there be member in the Band .
Each one have a square and be collect name for it .
If you want to have your name on the quilt you pay five cent , and if you want to have it right in the round spot in the middle of the square you must pay ten cent .
Then when we have get all the name we can we will embroider them on the square .
The money be to go to the little girl our Band be support in Korea .
I hear that nobody have ask you , so I think perhaps you would give me your name for my square . ''
Mr. Campbell draw his black brows together in a scowl .
`` Stuff and nonsense ! ''
he exclaim angrily .
`` I do n't believe in Foreign Missions -- do n't believe in them at all .
I never give a cent to them . ''
`` Five cent be n't a very large sum , '' say Cecily earnestly .
Mr. Campbell 's scowl disappear and he laugh .
`` It would n't break me , '' he admit , `` but it 's the principle of the thing .
And a for that Mission Band of yours , if it be n't for the fun you get out of it , catch one of you belong .
You do n't really care a rap more for the heathen than I do . ''
`` Oh , we do , '' protest Cecily .
`` We do think of all the poor little child in Korea , and we like to think we be help them , if it 's ever so little .
We ARE in earnest , Mr. Campbell -- indeed we be . ''
`` Do n't believe it -- do n't believe a word of it , '' say Mr. Campbell impolitely .
`` You 'll do thing that be nice and interesting .
You 'll get up concert , and chase people about for autograph and give money your parent give you and that do n't cost you either time or labour .
But you would n't do anything you dislike for the heathen child -- you would n't make any real sacrifice for them -- catch you ! ''
`` Indeed we would , '' cry Cecily , forget her timidity in her zeal .
`` I just wish I have a chance to prove it to you . ''
`` You do , eh ?
Come , now , I 'll take you at your word .
I 'll test you .
Tomorrow be Communion Sunday and the church will be full of folk and they 'll all have their best clothes on .
If you go to church tomorrow in the very costume you have on at present , without tell anyone why you do so , until it be all over , I 'll give you -- why , I vow I 'll give you five dollar for that quilt of yours . ''
Poor Cecily !
To go to church in a faded print dress , with a shabby little old sun-hat and worn shoe !
It be very cruel of Mr. Campbell .
`` I -- I do n't think mother would let me , '' she falter .
Her tormentor smile grimly .
`` It 's not hard to find some excuse , '' he say sarcastically .
Cecily crimson and sit up face Mr. Campbell spunkily .
`` It 's NOT an excuse , '' she say .
`` If mother will let me go to church like this I 'll go .
But I 'll have to tell HER why , Mr. Campbell , because I 'm certain she 'd never let me if I do n't . ''
`` Oh , you can tell all your own family , '' say Mr. Campbell , `` but remember , none of them must tell it outside until Sunday be over .
If they do , I 'll be sure to find it out and then our bargain be off .
If I see you in church tomorrow , dress a you be now , I 'll give you my name and five dollar .
But I wo n't see you .
You 'll shrink when you 've have time to think it over . ''
`` I sha 'n ' t , '' say Cecily resolutely .
`` Well , we 'll see .
And now come out to the barn with me .
I 've get the pretty little drove of calf out there you ever saw .
I want you to see them . ''
Mr. Campbell take u all over his barn and be very affable .
He have beautiful horse , cow and sheep , and I enjoy see them .
I do n't think Cecily do , however .
She be very quiet and even Mr. Campbell 's handsome new span of dappled gray fail to arouse any enthusiasm in her .
She be already in bitter anticipation living over the martyrdom of the morrow .
On the way home she ask me seriously if I think Mr. Campbell would go to heaven when he die .
`` Of course he will , '' I say .
`` Is n't he a member of the church ? ''
`` Oh , yes , but I ca n't imagine him fit into heaven .
You know he be n't really fond of anything but live stock . ''
`` He 's fond of tease people , I guess , '' I respond .
`` Are you really go to church to-morrow in that dress , Sis ? ''
`` If mother 'll let me I 'll have to , '' say poor Cecily .
`` I wo n't let Mr. Campbell triumph over me .
And I DO want to have as many name a Kitty have .
And I DO want to help the poor little Korean child .
But it will be simply dreadful .
I do n't know whether I hope mother will or not . ''
I do not believe she would , but Aunt Janet sometimes could be depend on for the unexpected .
She laugh and tell Cecily she could please herself .
Felicity be in a rage over it , and declare SHE would n't go to church if Cecily go in such a rig .
Dan sarcastically inquire if all she go to church for be to show off her fine clothes and look at other people 's ; then they quarrel and do n't speak to each other for two day , much to Cecily 's distress .
I suspect poor Sis wish devoutly that it might rain the next day ; but it be gloriously fine .
We be all wait in the orchard for the Story Girl who have not begin to dress for church until Cecily and Felicity be ready .
Felicity be her prettiest in flower-trimmed hat , crisp muslin , float ribbon and trim black slipper .
Poor Cecily stand beside her mute and pale , in her faded school garb and heavy copper-toed boot .
But her face , if pale , be very determined .
Cecily , have put her hand to the plough , be not of those who turn back .
`` You do look just awful , '' say Felicity .
`` I do n't care -- I 'm go to sit in Uncle James ' pew .
I WO N'T sit with you .
There will be so many stranger there , and all the Markdale people , and what will they think of you ?
Some of them will never know the reason , either . ''
`` I wish the Story Girl would hurry , '' be all poor Cecily say .
`` We 're go to be late .
It would n't have be quite so hard if I could have get there before anyone and slip quietly into our pew . ''
`` Here she come at last , '' say Dan .
`` Why -- what 's she get on ? ''
The Story Girl join u with a quizzical smile on her face .
Dan whistle .
Cecily 's pale cheek flush with understanding and gratitude .
The Story Girl wear her school print dress and hat also , and be gloveless and heavy shod .
`` You 're not go to have to go through this all alone , Cecily , '' she say .
`` Oh , it wo n't be half so hard now , '' say Cecily , with a long breath of relief .
I fancy it be hard enough even then .
The Story Girl do not care a whit , but Cecily rather squirm under the curious glance that be cast at her .
She afterwards tell me that she really do not think she could have endure it if she have be alone .
Mr. Campbell meet u under the elm in the churchyard , with a twinkle in his eye .
`` Well , you do it , Miss , '' he say to Cecily , `` but you should have be alone .
That be what I mean .
I suppose you think you 've cheat me nicely . ''
`` No , she do n't , '' speak up the Story Girl undauntedly .
`` She be all dress and ready to come before she know I be go to dress the same way .
So she keep her bargain faithfully , Mr. Campbell , and I think you be cruel to make her do it . ''
`` You do , eh ?
Well , well , I hope you 'll forgive me .
I do n't think she 'd do it -- I be sure feminine vanity would win the day over missionary zeal .
It seem it do n't -- though how much be pure missionary zeal and how much just plain King spunk I 'm doubtful .
I 'll keep my promise , Miss . .
You shall have your five dollar , and mind you put my name in the round space .
No five-cent corner for me . ''
CHAPTER XXIV .
A TANTALIZING REVELATION `` I shall have something to tell you in the orchard this evening , '' say the Story Girl at breakfast one morning .
Her eye be very bright and excite .
She look a if she have not sleep a great deal .
She have spend the previous evening with Miss Reade and have not return until the rest of u be in bed .
Miss Reade have finish give music lesson and be go home in a few day .
Cecily and Felicity be in despair over this and mourn a those without comfort .
But the Story Girl , who have be even more devoted to Miss Reade than either of them , have not , a I notice , express any regret and seem to be very cheerful over the whole matter .
`` Why ca n't you tell it now ? ''
ask Felicity .
`` Because the evening be the nice time to tell thing in .
I only mention it now so that you would have something interest to look forward to all day . ''
`` Is it about Miss Reade ? ''
ask Cecily .
`` Never mind . ''
`` I 'll bet she 's go to be marry , '' I exclaim , remember the ring .
`` Is she ? ''
cry Felicity and Cecily together .
The Story Girl throw an annoyed glance at me .
She do not like to have her dramatic announcement forestall .
`` I do n't say that it be about Miss Reade or that it be n't .
You must just wait till the evening . ''
`` I wonder what it be , '' speculate Cecily , a the Story Girl leave the room .
`` I do n't believe it 's much of anything , '' say Felicity , begin to clear away the breakfast dish .
`` The Story Girl always like to make so much out of so little .
Anyhow , I do n't believe Miss Reade be go to be marry .
She have n't any beaus around here and Mrs. Armstrong say she 's sure she do n't correspond with anybody .
Besides , if she be she would n't be likely to tell the Story Girl . ''
`` Oh , she might .
They 're such friend , you know , '' say Cecily .
`` Miss Reade be no good friend with her than she be with me and you , '' retort Felicity .
`` No , but sometimes it seem to me that she 's a different kind of friend with the Story Girl than she be with me and you , '' reflect Cecily .
`` I ca n't just explain what I mean . ''
`` No wonder .
Such nonsense , '' sniff Felicity .
`` It 's only some girl 's secret , anyway , '' say Dan , loftily .
`` I do n't feel much interest in it . ''
But he be on hand with the rest of u that even , interest or no interest , in Uncle Stephen 's Walk , where the ripening apple be begin to glow like jewel among the bough .
`` Now , be you go to tell u your news ? ''
ask Felicity impatiently .
`` Miss Reade IS go to be marry , '' say the Story Girl .
`` She tell me so last night .
She be go to be marry in a fortnight 's time . ''
`` Who to ? ''
exclaim the girl .
`` To '' -- the Story Girl throw a defiant glance at me a if to say , `` You ca n't spoil the surprise of THIS , anyway , '' -- `` to -- the Awkward Man . ''
For a few moment amazement literally hold u dumb .
`` You 're not in earnest , Sara Stanley ? ''
gasp Felicity at last .
`` Indeed I be .
I think you 'd be astonish .
But I be n't .
I 've suspect it all summer , from little thing I 've notice .
Do n't you remember that even last spring when I go a piece with Miss Reade and tell you when I come back that a story be grow ?
I guess it from the way the Awkward Man look at her when I stop to speak to him over his garden fence . ''
`` But -- the Awkward Man ! ''
say Felicity helplessly .
`` It do n't seem possible .
Did Miss Reade tell you HERSELF ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` I suppose it must be true then .
But how do it ever come about ?
He 's SO shy and awkward .
How do he ever manage to get up enough spunk to ask her to marry him ? ''
`` Maybe she ask him , '' suggest Dan .
The Story Girl look a if she might tell if she would .
`` I believe that WAS the way of it , '' I say , to draw her on .
`` Not exactly , '' she say reluctantly .
`` I know all about it but I ca n't tell you .
I guess part from thing I 've see -- and Miss Reade tell me a good deal -- and the Awkward Man himself tell me his side of it a we come home last night .
I meet him just a I leave Mr. Armstrong 's and we be together as far a his house .
It be dark and he just talk on a if he be talk to himself -- I think he forget I be there at all , once he get start .
He have never be shy or awkward with me , but he never talk a he do last night . ''
`` You might tell u what he say , '' urge Cecily .
`` We 'd never tell . ''
The Story Girl shake her head .
`` No , I ca n't .
You would n't understand .
Besides , I could n't tell it just right .
It 's one of the thing that be hard to tell .
I 'd spoil it if I tell it -- now .
Perhaps some day I 'll be able to tell it properly .
It 's very beautiful -- but it might sound very ridiculous if it be n't tell just exactly the right way . ''
`` I do n't know what you mean , and I do n't believe you know yourself , '' say Felicity pettishly .
`` All that I can make out be that Miss Reade be go to marry Jasper Dale , and I do n't like the idea one bit .
She be so beautiful and sweet .
I think she 'd marry some dashing young man .
Jasper Dale must be nearly twenty year old than her -- and he 's so queer and shy -- and such a hermit . ''
`` Miss Reade be perfectly happy , '' say the Story Girl .
`` She think the Awkward Man be lovely -- and so he be .
You do n't know him , but I do . ''
`` Well , you need n't put on such air about it , '' sniff Felicity .
`` I be not put on any air .
But it 's true .
Miss Reade and I be the only people in Carlisle who really know the Awkward Man .
Nobody else ever get behind his shyness to find out just what sort of a man he be . ''
`` When be they to be marry ? ''
ask Felicity .
`` In a fortnight 's time .
And then they be come right back to live at Golden Milestone .
Wo n't it be lovely to have Miss Reade always so near u ? ''
`` I wonder what she 'll think about the mystery of Golden Milestone , '' remark Felicity .
Golden Milestone be the beautiful name the Awkward Man have give his home ; and there be a mystery about it , a reader of the first volume of these chronicle will recall .
`` She know all about the mystery and think it perfectly lovely -- and so do I , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Do YOU know the secret of the locked room ? ''
cry Cecily .
`` Yes , the Awkward Man tell me all about it last night .
I tell you I 'd find out the mystery some time . ''
`` And what be it ? ''
`` I ca n't tell you that either . ''
`` I think you 're hateful and mean , '' exclaim Felicity .
`` It have n't anything to do with Miss Reade , so I think you might tell u . ''
`` It have something to do with Miss Reade .
It 's all about her . ''
`` Well , I do n't see how that can be when the Awkward Man never saw or heard of Miss Reade until she come to Carlisle in the spring , '' say Felicity incredulously , `` and he 's have that locked room for year . ''
`` I ca n't explain it to you -- but it 's just a I 've say , '' respond the Story Girl .
`` Well , it 's a very queer thing , '' retort Felicity .
`` The name in the book in the room be Alice -- and Miss Reade 's name be Alice , '' marvel Cecily .
`` Did he know her before she come here ? ''
`` Mrs. Griggs say that room have be lock for ten year .
Ten year ago Miss Reade be just a little girl of ten .
SHE could n't be the Alice of the book , '' argue Felicity .
`` I wonder if she 'll wear the blue silk dress , '' say Sara Ray .
`` And what will she do about the picture , if it be n't hers ? ''
add Cecily .
`` The picture could n't be hers , or Mrs. Griggs would have know her for the same when she come to Carlisle , '' say Felix .
`` I 'm go to stop wonder about it , '' exclaim Felicity crossly , aggravate by the amused smile with which the Story Girl be listen to the various speculation .
`` I think Sara be just as mean a mean when she wo n't tell u . ''
`` I ca n't , '' repeat the Story Girl patiently .
`` You say one time you have an idea who ` Alice ' be , '' I say .
`` Was your idea anything like the truth ? ''
`` Yes , I guess pretty nearly right . ''
`` Do you suppose they 'll keep the room lock after they be marry ? ''
ask Cecily .
`` Oh , no .
I can tell you that much .
It be to be Miss Reade 's own particular sit room . ''
`` Why , then , perhaps we 'll see it some time ourselves , when we go to see Miss Reade , '' cry Cecily .
`` I 'd be frighten to go into it , '' confess Sara Ray .
`` I hate thing with mystery .
They always make me nervous . ''
`` I love them .
They 're so exciting , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Just think , this will be the second wedding of people we know , '' reflect Cecily .
`` Is n't that interest ? ''
`` I only hope the next thing wo n't be a funeral , '' remark Sara Ray gloomily .
`` There be three light lamp on our kitchen table last night , and Judy Pineau say that 's a sure sign of a funeral . ''
`` Well , there be funeral go on all the time , '' say Dan .
`` But it mean the funeral of somebody you know .
I do n't believe in it -- MUCH -- but Judy say she 's see it come true time and again .
I hope if it do it wo n't be anybody we know very well .
But I hope it 'll be somebody I know a LITTLE , because then I might get to the funeral .
I 'd just love to go to a funeral . ''
`` That 's a dreadful thing to say , '' comment Felicity in a shocked tone .
Sara Ray look bewilder .
`` I do n't see what be dreadful in it , '' she protest .
`` People do n't go to funeral for the fun of it , '' say Felicity severely .
`` And you just as good a say you hop somebody you know would die so you 'd get to the funeral . ''
`` No , no , I do n't .
I do n't mean that AT ALL , Felicity .
I do n't want anybody to die ; but what I mean be , if anybody I know HAD to die there might be a chance to go to the funeral .
I 've never be to a single funeral yet , and it must be so interesting . ''
`` Well , do n't mix up talk about funeral with talk about wedding , '' say Felicity .
`` It be n't lucky .
I think Miss Reade be simply throw herself away , but I hope she 'll be happy .
And I hope the Awkward Man will manage to get marry without make some awful blunder , but it 's more than I expect . ''
`` The ceremony be to be very private , '' say the Story Girl .
`` I 'd like to see them the day they appear out in church , '' chuckle Dan .
`` How 'll he ever manage to bring her in and show her into the pew ?
I 'll bet he 'll go in first -- or tramp on her dress -- or fall over his foot . ''
`` Maybe he wo n't go to church at all the first Sunday and she 'll have to go alone , '' say Peter .
`` That happen in Markdale .
A man be too bashful to go to church the first time after get married , and his wife go alone till he get use to the idea . ''
`` They may do thing like that in Markdale but that be not the way people behave in Carlisle , '' say Felicity loftily .
Seeing the Story Girl slip away with a disapprove face I join her .
`` What be the matter , Sara ? ''
I ask .
`` I hate to hear them talk like that about Miss Reade and Mr. Dale , '' she answer vehemently .
`` It 's really all so beautiful -- but they make it seem silly and absurd , somehow . ''
`` You might tell me all about it , Sara , '' I insinuate .
`` I would n't tell -- and I 'd understand . ''
`` Yes , I think you would , '' she say thoughtfully .
`` But I ca n't tell it even to you because I ca n't tell it well enough yet .
I 've a feeling that there 's only one way to tell it -- and I do n't know the way yet .
Some day I 'll know it -- and then I 'll tell you , Bev . ''
Long , long after she keep her word .
Forty year later I write to her , across the league of land and sea that divide u , and tell her that Jasper Dale be dead ; and I remind her of her old promise and ask it fulfilment .
In reply she send me the write love story of Jasper Dale and Alice Reade .
Now , when Alice sleep under the whisper elm of the old Carlisle churchyard , beside the husband of her youth , that story may be give , in all it old-time sweetness , to the world .
CHAPTER XXV .
THE LOVE STORY OF THE AWKWARD MAN -LRB- Written by the Story Girl -RRB- Jasper Dale live alone in the old homestead which he have name Golden Milestone .
In Carlisle this give one 's farm a name be look upon a a piece of affectation ; but if a place must be name why not give it a sensible name with some meaning to it ?
Why Golden Milestone , when Pinewood or Hillslope or , if you want to be very fanciful , Ivy Lodge , might be have for the taking ?
He have live alone at Golden Milestone since his mother 's death ; he have be twenty then and he be close upon forty now , though he do not look it .
But neither could it be say that he look young ; he have never at any time look young with common youth ; there have always be something in his appearance that stamp him a different from the ordinary run of men , and , apart from his shyness , build up an intangible , invisible barrier between him and his kind .
He have live all his life in Carlisle ; and all the Carlisle people know of or about him -- although they think they know everything -- be that he be painfully , abnormally shy .
He never go anywhere except to church ; he never take part in Carlisle 's simple social life ; even with most men he be distant and reserve ; a for woman , he never speak to or look at them ; if one speak to him , even if she be a matronly old mother in Israel , he be at once in an agony of painful blush .
He have no friend in the sense of companion ; to all outward appearance his life be solitary and devoid of any human interest .
He have no housekeeper ; but his old house , furnish a it have be in his mother 's lifetime , be cleanly and daintily keep .
The quaint room be a free from dust and disorder a a woman could have have them .
This be know , because Jasper Dale occasionally have his hired man 's wife , Mrs. Griggs , in to scrub for him .
On the morning she be expect he betook himself to wood and field , return only at night-fall .
During his absence Mrs. Griggs be frankly wont to explore the house from cellar to attic , and her report of it condition be always the same -- `` neat a wax . ''
To be sure , there be one room that be always lock against her , the west gable , look out on the garden and the hill of pine beyond .
But Mrs. Griggs know that in the lifetime of Jasper Dale 's mother it have be unfurnished .
She suppose it still remain so , and felt no especial curiosity concern it , though she always try the door .
Jasper Dale have a good farm , well cultivate ; he have a large garden where he work most of his spare time in summer ; it be suppose that he read a great deal , since the postmistress declare that he be always get book and magazine by mail .
He seem well content with his existence and people let him alone , since that be the great kindness they could do him .
It be unsupposable that he would ever marry ; nobody ever have suppose it .
`` Jasper Dale never so much a THOUGHT about a woman , '' Carlisle oracle declare .
Oracles , however , be not always to be trust .
One day Mrs. Griggs go away from the Dale place with a very curious story , which she diligently spread far and wide .
It make a good deal of talk , but people , although they listen eagerly , and wonder and question , be rather incredulous about it .
They think Mrs. Griggs must be draw considerably upon her imagination ; there be not lack those who declare that she have invent the whole account , since her reputation for strict veracity be not wholly unquestioned .
Mrs. Griggs 's story be a follow : -- One day she find the door of the west gable unlocked .
She go in , expect to see bare wall and a collection of odds and end .
Instead she find herself in a finely furnished room .
Delicate lace curtain hang before the small , square , broad-silled window .
The wall be adorn with picture in much fine taste than Mrs. Griggs could appreciate .
There be a bookcase between the window fill with choicely bind book .
Beside it stand a little table with a very dainty work-basket on it .
By the basket Mrs. Griggs saw a pair of tiny scissors and a silver thimble .
A wicker rocker , comfortable with silk cushion , be near it .
Above the bookcase a woman 's picture hung -- a water-colour , if Mrs. Griggs have but know it -- represent a pale , very sweet face , with large , dark eye and a wistful expression under loose mass of black , lustrous hair .
Just beneath the picture , on the top shelf of the bookcase , be a vaseful of flower .
Another vaseful stood on the table beside the basket .
All this be astonish enough .
But what puzzle Mrs. Griggs completely be the fact that a woman 's dress be hang over a chair before the mirror -- a pale blue , silken affair .
And on the floor beside it be two little blue satin slipper !
Good Mrs. Griggs do not leave the room until she have thoroughly explore it , even to shake out the blue dress and discover it to be a tea-gown -- wrapper , she call it .
But she find nothing to throw any light on the mystery .
The fact that the simple name `` Alice '' be write on the fly-leaves of all the book only deepen it , for it be a name unknown in the Dale family .
In this puzzled state she be oblige to depart , nor do she ever find the door unlock again ; and , discover that people think she be romance when she talk about the mysterious west gable at Golden Milestone , she indignantly hold her peace concern the whole affair .
But Mrs. Griggs have tell no more than the simple truth .
Jasper Dale , under all his shyness and aloofness , possess a nature full of delicate romance and poesy , which , deny expression in the common way of life , bloom out in the realm of fancy and imagination .
Left alone , just when the boy 's nature be deepen into the man 's , he turn to this ideal kingdom for all he believe the real world could never give him .
Love -- a strange , almost mystical love -- play it part here for him .
He shadow forth to himself the vision of a woman , love and beloved ; he cherish it until it become almost a real to him a his own personality and he give this dream woman the name he like best -- Alice .
In fancy he walk and talk with her , speak word of love to her , and hear word of love in return .
When he come from work at the close of day she meet him at his threshold in the twilight -- a strange , fair , starry shape , a elusive and spiritual a a blossom reflect in a pool by moonlight -- with welcome on her lip and in her eye .
One day , when he be in Charlottetown on business , he have be strike by a picture in the window of a store .
It be strangely like the woman of his dream love .
He go in , awkward and embarrass , and buy it .
When he take it home he do not know where to put it .
It be out of place among the dim old engraving of bewigged portrait and conventional landscape on the wall of Golden Milestone .
As he ponder the matter in his garden that even he have an inspiration .
The sunset , flame on the window of the west gable , kindle them into burn rise .
Amid the splendour he fancy Alice 's fair face peep archly down at him from the room .
The inspiration come then .
It should be her room ; he would fit it up for her ; and her picture should hang there .
He be all summer carry out his plan .
Nobody must know or suspect , so he must go slowly and secretly .
One by one the furnishing be purchase and bring home under cover of darkness .
He arrange them with his own hand .
He buy the book he think she would like best and write her name in them ; he get the little feminine knick-knacks of basket and thimble .
Finally he saw in a store a pale blue tea-gown and the satin slipper .
He have always fancy her a dress in blue .
He buy them and take them home to her room .
Thereafter it be sacred to her ; he always knock on it door before he enter ; he keep it sweet with fresh flower ; he sit there in the purple summer evening and talk aloud to her or read his favourite book to her .
In his fancy she sit opposite to him in her rocker , clad in the trail blue gown , with her head lean on one slender hand , as white a a twilight star .
But Carlisle people know nothing of this -- would have think him ting with mild lunacy if they have know .
To them , he be just the shy , simple farmer he appear .
They never know or guess at the real Jasper Dale .
One spring Alice Reade come to teach music in Carlisle .
Her pupil worship her , but the grown people think she be rather too distant and reserve .
They have be use to merry , jolly girl who join eagerly in the social life of the place .
Alice Reade hold herself aloof from it -- not disdainfully , but a one to whom these thing be of small importance .
She be very fond of book and solitary ramble ; she be not at all shy but she be as sensitive a a flower ; and after a time Carlisle people be content to let her live her own life and no longer resent her unlikeness to themselves .
She board with the Armstrongs , who live beyond Golden Milestone around the hill of pine .
Until the snow disappear she go out to the main road by the long Armstrong lane ; but when spring come she be wont to take a short way , down the pine hill , across the brook , past Jasper Dale 's garden , and out through his lane .
And one day , a she go by , Jasper Dale be work in his garden .
He be on his knee in a corner , set out a bunch of root -- an unsightly little tangle of rainbow possibility .
It be a still spring morning ; the world be green with young leaf ; a little wind blow down from the pine and lose itself willingly among the bud delight of the garden .
The grass open eye of blue violet .
The sky be high and cloudless , turquoise-blue , shade off into milkiness on the far horizon .
Birds be sing along the brook valley .
Rollicking robin be whistle joyously in the pine .
Jasper Dale 's heart be fill to over-flowing with a realization of all the virgin loveliness around him ; the feeling in his soul have the sacredness of a prayer .
At this moment he look up and saw Alice Reade .
She be stand outside the garden fence , in the shadow of a great pine tree , look not at him , for she be unaware of his presence , but at the virginal bloom of the plum tree in a far corner , with all her delight in it outblossoming freely in her face .
For a moment Jasper Dale believe that his dream love have take visible form before him .
She be like -- so like ; not in feature , perhaps , but in grace and colouring -- the grace of a slender , lissome form and the colouring of cloudy hair and wistful , dark gray eye , and curve red mouth ; and more than all , she be like her in expression -- in the subtle revelation of personality exhale from her like perfume from a flower .
It be a if his own have come to him at last and his whole soul suddenly leap out to meet and welcome her .
Then her eye fell upon him and the spell be break .
Jasper remain kneel mutely there , shy man once more , crimson with blush , a strange , almost pitiful creature in his abject confusion .
A little smile flicker about the delicate corner of her mouth , but she turn and walk swiftly away down the lane .
Jasper look after her with a new , painful sense of loss and loveliness .
It have be agony to feel her conscious eye upon him , but he realize now that there have be a strange sweetness in it , too .
It be still great pain to watch her go from him .
He think she must be the new music teacher but he do not even know her name .
She have be dress in blue , too -- a pale , dainty blue ; but that be of course ; he have know she must wear it ; and he be sure her name must be Alice .
When , later on , he discover that it be , he felt no surprise .
He carry some mayflower up to the west gable and put them under the picture .
But the charm have go out of the tribute ; and look at the picture , he think how scant be the justice it do her .
Her face be so much sweeter , her eye so much soft , her hair so much more lustrous .
The soul of his love have go from the room and from the picture and from his dream .
When he try to think of the Alice he love he saw , not the shadowy spirit occupant of the west gable , but the young girl who have stand under the pine , beautiful with the beauty of moonlight , of starshine on still water , of white , wind-swayed flower grow in silent , shadowy place .
He do not then realize what this meant : have he realize it he would have suffer bitterly ; a it be he felt only a vague discomfort -- a curious sense of loss and gain commingle .
He saw her again that afternoon on her way home .
She do not pause by the garden but walk swiftly past .
Thereafter , every day for a week he watch unseen to see her pass his home .
Once a little child be with her , cling to her hand .
No child have ever before have any part in the shy man 's dream life .
But that night in the twilight the vision of the rocking-chair be a girl in a blue print dress , with a little , golden-haired shape at her knee -- a shape that lisp and prattle and call her `` mother ; '' and both of them be his .
It be the next day that he fail for the first time to put flower in the west gable .
Instead , he cut a loose handful of daffodil and , look furtively about him a if commit a crime , he lay them across the footpath under the pine .
She must pass that way ; her foot would crush them if she fail to see them .
Then he slip back into his garden , half exultant , half repentant .
From a safe retreat he saw her pas by and stoop to lift his flower .
Thereafter he put some in the same place every day .
When Alice Reade saw the flower she know at once who have put them there , and divine that they be for her .
She lift them tenderly in much surprise and pleasure .
She have hear all about Jasper Dale and his shyness ; but before she have hear about him she have see him in church and like him .
She think his face and his dark blue eye beautiful ; she even like the long brown hair that Carlisle people laugh at .
That he be quite different from other people she have understand at once , but she think the difference in his favour .
Perhaps her sensitive nature divine and respond to the beauty in his .
At least , in her eye Jasper Dale be never a ridiculous figure .
When she hear the story of the west gable , which most people disbelieve , she believe it , although she do not understand it .
It invest the shy man with interest and romance .
She felt that she would have like , out of no impertinent curiosity , to solve the mystery ; she believe that it contain the key to his character .
Thereafter , every day she find flower under the pine tree ; she wish to see Jasper to thank him , unaware that he watch her daily from the screen of shrubbery in his garden ; but it be some time before she find the opportunity .
One evening she pass when he , not expect her , be lean against his garden fence with a book in his hand .
She stop under the pine .
`` Mr. Dale , '' she say softly , `` I want to thank you for your flower . ''
Jasper , startle , wish that he might sink into the ground .
His anguish of embarrassment make her smile a little .
He could not speak , so she go on gently .
`` It have be so good of you .
They have give me so much pleasure -- I wish you could know how much . ''
`` It be nothing -- nothing , '' stammer Jasper .
His book have fall on the ground at her foot , and she pick it up and hold it out to him .
`` So you like Ruskin , '' she say .
`` I do , too .
But I have n't read this . ''
`` If you -- would care -- to read it -- you may have it , '' Jasper contrive to say .
She carry the book away with her .
He do not again hide when she pass , and when she bring the book back they talk a little about it over the fence .
He lend her others , and get some from her in return ; they fell into the habit of discuss them .
Jasper do not find it hard to talk to her now ; it seem a if he be talk to his dream Alice , and it come strangely natural to him .
He do not talk volubly , but Alice think what he do say be worth while .
His word linger in her memory and make music .
She always find his flower under the pine , and she always wear some of them , but she do not know if he notice this or not .
One even Jasper walk shyly with her from his gate up the pine hill .
After that he always walk that far with her .
She would have miss him much if he have fail to do so ; yet it do not occur to her that she be learn to love him .
She would have laugh with girlish scorn at the idea .
She like him very much ; she think his nature beautiful in it simplicity and purity ; in spite of his shyness she felt more delightfully at home in his society than in that of any other person she have ever meet .
He be one of those rare soul whose friendship be at once a pleasure and a benediction , shower light from their own crystal clearness into all the dark corner in the soul of others , until , for the time be at least , they reflect his own nobility .
But she never think of love .
Like other girl she have her dream of a possible Prince Charming , young and handsome and debonair .
It never occur to her that he might be find in the shy , dreamy recluse of Golden Milestone .
In August come a day of gold and blue .
Alice Reade , come through the tree , with the wind blow her little dark love-locks tricksily about under her wide blue hat , find a fragrant heap of mignonette under the pine .
She lift it and bury her face in it , drink in the wholesome , modest perfume .
She have hop Jasper would be in his garden , since she wish to ask him for a book she greatly desire to read .
But she saw him sit on the rustic seat at the further side .
His back be towards her , and he be partially screen by a copse of lilac .
Alice , blush slightly , unlatched the garden gate , and go down the path .
She have never be in the garden before , and she find her heart beating in a strange fashion .
He do not hear her footstep , and she be close behind him when she hear his voice , and realize that he be talk to himself , in a low , dreamy tone .
As the meaning of his word dawn on her consciousness she start and grow crimson .
She could not move or speak ; a one in a dream she stand and listen to the shy man 's reverie , guiltless of any thought of eavesdropping .
`` How much I love you , Alice , '' Jasper Dale be say , unafraid , with no shyness in voice or manner .
`` I wonder what you would say if you know .
You would laugh at me -- sweet a you be , you would laugh in mockery .
I can never tell you .
I can only dream of tell you .
In my dream you be stand here by me , dear .
I can see you very plainly , my sweet lady , so tall and gracious , with your dark hair and your maiden eye .
I can dream that I tell you my love ; that -- mad , sweet dream of all -- that you love me in return .
Everything be possible in dream , you know , dear .
My dream be all I have , so I go far in them , even to dream that you be my wife .
I dream how I shall fix up my dull old house for you .
One room will need nothing more -- it be your room , dear , and have be ready for you a long time -- long before that day I saw you under the pine .
Your book and your chair and your picture be there , dear -- only the picture be not half lovely enough .
But the other room of the house must be make to bloom out freshly for you .
What a delight it be thus to dream of what I would do for you !
Then I would bring you home , dear , and lead you through my garden and into my house a it mistress .
I would see you stand beside me in the old mirror at the end of the hall -- a bride , in your pale blue dress , with a blush on your face .
I would lead you through all the room make ready for your coming , and then to your own .
I would see you sit in your own chair and all my dream would find rich fulfilment in that royal moment .
Oh , Alice , we would have a beautiful life together !
It 's sweet to make believe about it .
You will sing to me in the twilight , and we will gather early flower together in the spring day .
When I come home from work , tire , you will put your arm about me and lay your head on my shoulder .
I will stroke it -- so -- that bonny , glossy head of yours .
Alice , my Alice -- all mine in my dream -- never to be mine in real life -- how I love you ! ''
The Alice behind him could bear no more .
She give a little choking cry that betray her presence .
Jasper Dale spring up and gazed upon her .
He saw her stand there , amid the languorous shadow of August , pale with feeling , wide-eyed , tremble .
For a moment shyness wring him .
Then every trace of it be banish by a sudden , strange , fierce anger that sweep over him .
He felt outraged and hurt to the death ; he felt a if he have be cheat out of something incalculably precious -- a if sacrilege have be do to his most holy sanctuary of emotion .
White , tense with his anger , he look at her and spoke , his lip as pale a if his fiery word scathed them .
`` How dare you ?
You have spy on me -- you have creep in and listen !
How dare you ?
Do you know what you have do , girl ?
You have destroy all that make life worth while to me .
My dream be dead .
It could not live when it be betray .
And it be all I have .
Oh , laugh at me -- mock me !
I know that I be ridiculous !
What of it ?
It never could have hurt you !
Why must you creep in like this to hear me and put me to shame ?
Oh , I love you -- I will say it , laugh a you will .
Is it such a strange thing that I should have a heart like other men ?
This will make sport for you !
I , who love you good than my life , good than any other man in the world can love you , will be a jest to you all your life .
I love you -- and yet I think I could hate you -- you have destroy my dream -- you have do me deadly wrong . ''
`` Jasper !
Jasper ! ''
cried Alice , find her voice .
His anger hurt her with a pain she could not endure .
It be unbearable that Jasper should be angry with her .
In that moment she realize that she love him -- that the word he have speak when unconscious of her presence be the sweet she have ever hear , or ever could hear .
Nothing matter at all , save that he love her and be angry with her .
`` Do n't say such dreadful thing to me , '' she stammer , `` I do not mean to listen .
I could not help it .
I shall never laugh at you .
Oh , Jasper '' -- she look bravely at him and the fine soul of her shone through the flesh like an illuminating lamp -- `` I be glad that you love me !
and I be glad I chance to overhear you , since you would never have have the courage to tell me otherwise .
Glad -- glad !
Do you understand , Jasper ? ''
Jasper look at her with the eye of one who , look through pain , see rapture beyond .
`` Is it possible ? ''
he say , wonderingly .
`` Alice -- I be so much old than you -- and they call me the Awkward Man -- they say I be unlike other people '' -- `` You ARE unlike other people , '' she say softly , `` and that be why I love you .
I know now that I must have love you ever since I saw you . ''
`` I love you long before I saw you , '' say Jasper .
He come close to her and draw her into his arm , tenderly and reverently , all his shyness and awkwardness swallow up in the grace of his great happiness .
In the old garden he kiss her lip and Alice enter into her own .
CHAPTER XXVI .
UNCLE BLAIR COMES HOME It happen that the Story Girl and I both get up very early on the morning of the Awkward Man 's wedding day .
Uncle Alec be go to Charlottetown that day , and I , awaken at daybreak by the sound in the kitchen beneath u , remember that I have forget to ask him to bring me a certain school-book I want .
So I hurriedly dress and hasten down to tell him before he go .
I be join on the stair by the Story Girl , who say she have waken and , not feel like go to sleep again , think she might as well get up .
`` I have such a funny dream last night , '' she say .
`` I dream that I hear a voice call me from away down in Uncle Stephen 's Walk -- ` Sara , Sara , Sara , ' it keep call .
I do n't know whose it be , and yet it seem like a voice I know .
I waken up while it be call , and it seem so real I could hardly believe it be a dream .
It be bright moonlight , and I felt just like get up and go out to the orchard .
But I know that would be silly and of course I do n't go .
But I keep on want to and I could n't sleep any more .
Was n't it queer ? ''
When Uncle Alec have go I propose a saunter to the farther end of the orchard , where I have leave a book the precede evening .
A young mom be walk rosily on the hill a we pass down Uncle Stephen 's Walk , with Paddy trot before u .
High overhead be the spirit-like blue of pal sky ; the east be a great arc of crystal , smite through with auroral crimsonings ; just above it be one milk-white star of morning , like a pearl on a silver sea .
A light wind of dawn be weave an orient spell .
`` It 's lovely to be up as early a this , be n't it ? ''
say the Story Girl .
`` The world seem so different just at sunrise , do n't it ?
It make me feel just like get up to see the sun rise every morning of my life after this .
But I know I wo n't .
I 'll likely sleep later than ever tomorrow morning .
But I wish I could . ''
`` The Awkward Man and Miss Reade be go to have a lovely day for their wedding , '' I say .
`` Yes , and I 'm so glad .
Beautiful Alice deserves everything good .
Why , Bev -- why , Bev !
Who be that in the hammock ? ''
I look .
The hammock be swing under the two end tree of the Walk .
In it a man be lie , asleep , his head pillow on his overcoat .
He be sleep easily , lightly , and wholesomely .
He have a point brown beard and thick wavy brown hair .
His cheek be a dusky red and the lash of his closed eye be a long and dark and silken a a girl 's .
He wear a light gray suit , and on the slender white hand that hang down over the hammock 's edge be a spark of diamond fire .
It seem to me that I know his face , although assuredly I have never see him before .
While I grope among vague speculation the Story Girl give a queer , choke little cry .
The next moment she have sprung over the intervening space , drop on her knee by the hammock , and fling her arm about the man 's neck .
`` Father !
Father ! ''
she cry , while I stand , root to the ground in my amazement .
The sleeper stir and open two large , exceedingly brilliant hazel eye .
For a moment he gaze rather blankly at the brown-curled young lady who be embrace him .
Then a most delightful smile break over his face ; he spring up and catch her to his heart .
`` Sara -- Sara -- my little Sara !
To think do n't know you at first glance !
But you be almost a woman .
And when I saw you last you be just a little girl of eight .
My own little Sara ! ''
`` Father -- father -- sometimes I 've wonder if you be ever come back to me , '' I hear the Story Girl say , a I turn and scuttle up the Walk , realize that I be not want there just then and would be little missed .
Various emotion and speculation possess my mind in my retreat ; but chiefly do I feel a sense of triumph in be the bearer of excite news .
`` Aunt Janet , Uncle Blair be here , '' I announce breathlessly at the kitchen door .
Aunt Janet , who be knead her bread , turn round and lifted floury hand .
Felicity and Cecily , who be just enter the kitchen , rosy from slumber , stop still and star at me .
`` Uncle who ? ''
exclaim Aunt Janet .
`` Uncle Blair -- the Story Girl 's father , you know .
He 's here . ''
`` WHERE ? ''
`` Down in the orchard .
He be asleep in the hammock .
We find him there . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
say Aunt Janet , sit down helplessly .
`` If that be n't like Blair !
Of course he could n't come like anybody else .
I wonder , '' she add in a tone unheard by anyone else save myself , `` I wonder if he have come to take the child away . ''
My elation go out like a snuffed candle .
I have never think of this .
If Uncle Blair take the Story Girl away would not life become rather savourless on the hill farm ?
I turn and follow Felicity and Cecily out in a very subdued mood .
Uncle Blair and the Story Girl be just come out of the orchard .
His arm be about her and hers be on his shoulder .
Laughter and tear be contend in her eye .
Only once before -- when Peter have come back from the Valley of the Shadow -- have I see the Story Girl cry .
Emotion have to go very deep with her ere it touch the source of tear .
I have always know that she love her father passionately , though she rarely talk of him , understand that her uncle and aunt be not whole-heartedly his friend .
But Aunt Janet 's welcome be cordial enough , though a trifle fluster .
Whatever thrifty , hard-working farmer folk might think of gay , Bohemian Blair Stanley in his absence , in his presence even they like him , by the grace of some winsome , lovable quality in the soul of him .
He have `` a way with him '' -- reveal even in the manner with which he catch staid Aunt Janet in his arm , swing her matronly form around a though she have be a slim schoolgirl , and kiss her rosy cheek .
`` Sister o ' mine , be you never go to grow old ? ''
he say .
`` Here you be at forty-five with the rose of sixteen -- and not a gray hair , I 'll wager . ''
`` Blair , Blair , it be you who be always young , '' laugh Aunt Janet , not ill pleased .
`` Where in the world do you come from ?
And what be this I hear of your sleep all night in the hammock ? ''
`` I 've be paint in the Lake District all summer , a you know , '' answer Uncle Blair , `` and one day I just get homesick to see my little girl .
So I sail for Montreal without further delay .
I get here at eleven last night -- the station-master 's son drive me down .
Nice boy .
The old house be in darkness and I think it would be a shame to rouse you all out of bed after a hard day 's work .
So I decide that I would spend the night in the orchard .
It be moonlight , you know , and moonlight in an old orchard be one of the few thing leave over from the Golden Age . ''
`` It be very foolish of you , '' say practical Aunt Janet .
`` These September night be real chilly .
You might have catch your death of cold -- or a bad dose of rheumatism . ''
`` So I might .
No doubt it be foolish of me , '' agree Uncle Blair gaily .
`` It must have be the fault , of the moonlight .
Moonlight , you know , Sister Janet , have an intoxicating quality .
It be a fine , airy , silver wine , such a fairy may drink at their revel , unharmed of it ; but when a mere mortal sip of it , it mount straightway to his brain , to the undoing of his daylight common sense .
However , I have get neither cold nor rheumatism , a a sensible person would have do have he ever be lure into do such a non-sensible thing ; there be a special Providence for u foolish folk .
I enjoy my night in the orchard ; for a time I be companion by sweet old memory ; and then I fell asleep listen to the murmur of the wind in those old tree yonder .
And I have a beautiful dream , Janet .
I dream that the old orchard blossom again , a it do that spring eighteen year ago .
I dream that it sunshine be the sunshine of spring , not autumn .
There be newness of life in my dream , Janet , and the sweetness of forgotten word . ''
`` Was n't it strange about MY dream ? ''
whisper the Story Girl to me .
`` Well , you 'd better come in and have some breakfast , '' say Aunt Janet .
`` These be my little girl -- Felicity and Cecily . ''
`` I remember them a two most adorable tot , '' say Uncle Blair , shake hand .
`` They have n't change quite so much a my own baby-child .
Why , she 's a woman , Janet -- she 's a woman . ''
`` She 's child enough still , '' say Aunt Janet hastily .
The Story Girl shake her long brown curl .
`` I 'm fifteen , '' she say .
`` And you ought to see me in my long dress , father . ''
`` We must not be separate any longer , dear heart , '' I hear Uncle Blair say tenderly .
I hop that he mean he would stay in Canada -- not that he would take the Story Girl away .
Apart from this we have a gay day with Uncle Blair .
He evidently like our society well than that of the grown-ups , for he be a child himself at heart , gay , irresponsible , always act on the impulse of the moment .
We all find him a delightful companion .
There be no school that day , a Mr. Perkins be absent , attend a meeting of the Teachers ' Convention , so we spend most of it golden hour in the orchard with Uncle Blair , listen to his fascinate account of foreign wandering .
He also draw all our picture for u , and this be especially delightful , for the day of the camera be only just dawn and none of u have ever have even our photograph take .
Sara Ray 's pleasure be , a usual , quite spoil by wonder what her mother would say of it , for Mrs. Ray have , so it appear , some very peculiar prejudice against the taking or making of any kind of picture whatsoever , owe to an exceedingly strict interpretation of the second commandment .
Dan suggest that she need not tell her mother anything about it ; but Sara shake her head .
`` I 'll have to tell her .
I 've make it a rule to tell ma everything I do ever since the Judgment Day . ''
`` Besides , '' add Cecily seriously , `` the Family Guide say one ought to tell one 's mother everything . ''
`` It 's pretty hard sometimes , though , '' sigh Sara .
`` Ma scold so much when I do tell her thing , that it sort of discourages me .
But when I think of how dreadful I felt the time of the Judgment Day over deceive her in some thing it nerve me up .
I 'd do almost anything rather than feel like that the next time the Judgment Day come . ''
`` Fe , fi , fo , fum , I smell a story , '' say Uncle Blair .
`` What do you mean by speaking of the Judgment Day in the past tense ? ''
The Story Girl tell him the tale of that dreadful Sunday in the precede summer and we all laugh with him at ourselves .
`` All the same , '' mutter Peter , `` I do n't want to have another experience like that .
I hope I 'll be dead the next time the Judgment Day come . ''
`` But you 'll be raise up for it , '' say Felix .
`` Oh , that 'll be all right .
I wo n't mind that .
I wo n't know anything about it till it really happen .
It 's the expect it that 's the bad . ''
`` I do n't think you ought to talk of such thing , '' say Felicity .
When even come we all go to Golden Milestone .
We know the Awkward Man and his bride be expect home at sunset , and we mean to scatter flower on the path by which she must enter her new home .
It be the Story Girl 's idea , but I do n't think Aunt Janet would have let u go if Uncle Blair have not plead for u .
He ask to be take along , too , and we agree , if he would stand out of sight when the newly marry pair come home .
`` You see , father , the Awkward Man wo n't mind u , because we 're only child and he know u well , '' explain the Story Girl , `` but if he see you , a stranger , it might confuse him and we might spoil the homecoming , and that would be such a pity . ''
So we go to Golden Milestone , laden with all the flowery spoil we could plunder from both garden .
It be a clear amber-tinted September evening and far away , over Markdale Harbour , a great round red moon be rise a we wait .
Uncle Blair be hide behind the wind-blown tassel of the pine at the gate , but he and the Story Girl keep wave their hand at each other and call out gay , mirthful jest .
`` Do you really feel acquaint with your father ? ''
whisper Sara Ray wonderingly .
`` It 's long since you saw him . ''
`` If I have n't see him for a hundred year it would n't make any difference that way , '' laugh the Story Girl .
`` S-s-h-s-s-h -- they 're come , '' whisper Felicity excitedly .
And then they come -- Beautiful Alice blushing and lovely , in the prettiest of pretty blue dress , and the Awkward Man , so fervently happy that he quite forget to be awkward .
He lift her out of the buggy gallantly and lead her forward to u , smile .
We retreat before them , scatter our flower lavishly on the path , and Alice Dale walk to the very doorstep of her new home over a carpet of blossom .
On the step they both pause and turn towards u , and we shyly do the proper thing in the way of congratulation and good wish .
`` It be so sweet of you to do this , '' say the smile bride .
`` It be lovely to be able to do it for you , dear , '' whisper the Story Girl , `` and oh , Miss Reade -- Mrs. Dale , I mean -- we all hope you 'll be so , so happy for ever . ''
`` I be sure I shall , '' say Alice Dale , turn to her husband .
He look down into her eye -- and we be quite forget by both of them .
We saw it , and slip away , while Jasper Dale draw his wife into their home and shut the world out .
We scamper joyously away through the moonlit dusk .
Uncle Blair join u at the gate and the Story Girl ask him what he think of the bride .
`` When she die white violet will grow out of her dust , '' he answer .
`` Uncle Blair say even queer thing than the Story Girl , '' Felicity whisper to me .
And so that beautiful day go away from u , slip through our finger a we try to hold it .
It hood itself in shadow and fare forth on the road that be light by the white star of evening .
It have be a gift of Paradise .
Its hour have all be fair and beloved .
From dawn flush to fall of night there have be naught to mar it .
It take with it it smile and laughter .
But it leave the boon of memory .
CHAPTER XXVII .
THE OLD ORDER CHANGETH `` I be go away with father when he go .
He be go to spend the winter in Paris , and I be to go to school there . ''
The Story Girl tell u this one day in the orchard .
There be a little elation in her tone , but more regret .
The news be not a great surprise to u .
We have felt it in the air ever since Uncle Blair 's arrival .
Aunt Janet have be very unwilling to let the Story Girl go .
But Uncle Blair be inexorable .
It be time , he say , that she should go to a good school than the little country one in Carlisle ; and besides , he do not want her to grow into womanhood a stranger to him .
So it be finally decide that she be to go .
`` Just think , you be go to Europe , '' say Sara Ray in an awe-struck tone .
`` Wo n't that be splendid ! ''
`` I suppose I 'll like it after a while , '' say the Story Girl slowly , `` but I know I 'll be dreadfully homesick at first .
Of course , it will be lovely to be with father , but oh , I 'll miss the rest of you so much ! ''
`` Just think how WE 'LL miss YOU , '' sigh Cecily .
`` It will be so lonesome here this winter , with you and Peter both go .
Oh , dear , I do wish thing do n't have to change . ''
Felicity say nothing .
She keep look down at the grass on which she sit , absently pull at the slender blade .
Presently we saw two big tear roll down over her cheek .
The Story Girl look surprised .
`` Are you cry because I 'm go away , Felicity ? ''
she ask .
`` Of course I be , '' answer Felicity , with a big sob .
`` Do you think I 've no f-f-eeling ? ''
`` I do n't think you 'd care much , '' say the Story Girl frankly .
`` You 've never seem to like me very much . ''
`` I d-don ' t wear my h-heart on my sleeve , '' say poor Felicity , with an attempt at dignity .
`` I think you m-might stay .
Your father would let you s-stay if you c-coaxed him . ''
`` Well , you see I 'd have to go some time , '' sigh the Story Girl , `` and the long it be put off the harder it would be .
But I do feel dreadfully about it .
I ca n't even take poor Paddy .
I 'll have to leave him behind , and oh , I want you all to promise to be kind to him for my sake . ''
We all solemnly assure her that we would .
`` I 'll g-give him cream every m-morning and n-night , '' sob Felicity , `` but I 'll never be able to look at him without cry .
He 'll make me think of you . ''
`` Well , I 'm not go right away , '' say the Story Girl , more cheerfully .
`` Not till the last of October .
So we have over a month yet to have a good time in .
Let 's all just determine to make it a splendid month for the last .
We wo n't think about my go at all till we have to , and we wo n't have any quarrel among u , and we 'll just enjoy ourselves all we possibly can .
So do n't cry any more , Felicity .
I 'm awfully glad you do like me and be sorry I 'm go away , but let 's all forget it for a month . ''
Felicity sigh , and tuck away her damp handkerchief .
`` It be n't so easy for me to forget thing , but I 'll try , '' she say disconsolately , `` and if you want any more cooking lesson before you go I 'll be real glad to teach you anything I know . ''
This be a high plane of self-sacrifice for Felicity to attain .
But the Story Girl shake her head .
`` No , I 'm not go to bother my head about cook lesson this last month .
It 's too vexing . ''
`` Do you remember the time you make the pudding -- '' begin Peter , and suddenly stop .
`` Out of sawdust ? ''
finish the Story Girl cheerfully .
`` You need n't be afraid to mention it to me after this .
I do n't mind any more .
I begin to see the fun of it now .
I should think I do remember it -- and the time I bake the bread before it be raise enough . ''
`` People have make bad mistake than that , '' say Felicity kindly .
`` Such a use tooth-powd -- '' but here Dan stop abruptly , remember the Story Girl 's plea for a beautiful month .
Felicity colour , but say nothing -- do not even LOOK anything .
`` We HAVE have lot of fun together one way or another , '' say Cecily , retrospectively .
`` Just think how much we 've laugh this last year or so , '' say the Story Girl .
`` We 've have good time together ; but I think we 'll have lot more splendid year ahead . ''
`` Eden be always behind u -- Paradise always before , '' say Uncle Blair , come up in time to hear her .
He say it with a sigh that be immediately lose in one of his delightful smile .
`` I like Uncle Blair so much good than I expect to , '' Felicity confide to me .
`` Mother say he 's a roll stone , but there really be something very nice about him , although he say a great many thing I do n't understand .
I suppose the Story Girl will have a very gay time in Paris . ''
`` She 's go to school and she 'll have to study hard , '' I say .
`` She say she 's go to study for the stage , '' say Felicity .
`` Uncle Roger think it be all right , and say she 'll be very famous some day .
But mother think it 's dreadful , and so do I. '' `` Aunt Julia be a concert singer , '' I say .
`` Oh , that 's very different .
But I hope poor Sara will get on all right , '' sigh Felicity .
`` You never know what may happen to a person in those foreign country .
And everybody say Paris be such a wicked place .
But we must hope for the best , '' she conclude in a resigned tone .
That even the Story Girl and I drive the cow to pasture after milking , and when we come home we seek out Uncle Blair in the orchard .
He be saunter up and down Uncle Stephen 's Walk , his hand clasp behind him and his beautiful , youthful face uplift to the western sky where wave of night be break on a dim primrose shore of sunset .
`` See that star over there in the south-west ? ''
he say , a we join him .
`` The one just above that pine ?
An evening star shin over a dark pine tree be the white thing in the universe -- because it be LIVING whiteness -- whiteness possess a soul .
How full this old orchard be of twilight !
Do you know , I have be trysting here with ghost . ''
`` The Family Ghost ? ''
I ask , very stupidly .
`` No , not the Family Ghost .
I never saw beautiful , broken-hearted Emily yet .
Your mother saw her once , Sara -- that be a strange thing , '' he add absently , a if to himself .
`` Did mother really see her ? ''
whisper the Story Girl .
`` Well , she always believe she do .
Who know ? ''
`` Do you think there be such thing a ghost , Uncle Blair ? ''
I ask curiously .
`` I never saw any , Beverley . ''
`` But you say you be trysting with ghost here this evening , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Oh , yes -- the ghost of the old year .
I love this orchard because of it many ghost .
We be good comrade , those ghost and I ; we walk and talk -- we even laugh together -- sorrowful laughter that have sorrow 's own sweetness .
And always there come to me one dear phantom and wanders hand in hand with me -- a lost lady of the old year . ''
`` My mother ? ''
say the Story Girl very softly .
`` Yes , your mother .
Here , in her old haunt , it be impossible for me to believe that she can be dead -- that her LAUGHTER can be dead .
She be the gay , sweet thing -- and so young -- only three year old than you , Sara .
Yonder old house have be glad because of her for eighteen year when I meet her first . ''
`` I wish I could remember her , '' say the Story Girl , with a little sigh .
`` I have n't even a picture of her .
Why do n't you paint one , father ? ''
`` She would never let me .
She have some queer , funny , half-playful , half-earnest superstition about it .
But I always mean to when she would become willing to let me .
And then -- she die .
Her twin brother Felix die the same day .
There be something strange about that , too .
I be hold her in my arm and she be look up at me ; suddenly she look past me and give a little start .
` Felix ! '
she say .
For a moment she tremble and then she smile and look up at me again a little beseechingly .
` Felix have come for me , dear , ' she say .
` We be always together before you come -- you must not mind -- you must be glad I do not have to go alone . '
Well , who know ?
But she leave me , Sara -- she leave me . ''
There be that in Uncle Blair 's voice that keep u silent for a time .
Then the Story Girl say , still very softly : `` What do mother look like , father ?
I do n't look the least little bit like her , do I ? ''
`` No , I wish you do , you brown thing .
Your mother 's face be as white a a wood-lily , with only a faint dream of rise in her cheek .
She have the eye of one who always have a song in her heart -- blue a a mist , those eye be .
She have dark lash , and a little red mouth that quiver when she be very sad or very happy like a crimson rise too rudely shake by the wind .
She be a slim and lithe a a young , white-stemmed birch tree .
How I love her !
How happy we be !
But he who accept human love must bind it to his soul with pain , and she be not lose to me .
Nothing be ever really lose to u as long a we remember it . ''
Uncle Blair look up at the evening star .
We saw that he have forget u , and we slip away , hand in hand , leave him alone in the memory-haunted shadow of the old orchard .
CHAPTER XXVIII .
THE PATH TO ARCADY October that year gather up all the spilled sunshine of the summer and clad herself in it a in a garment .
The Story Girl have ask u to try to make the last month together beautiful , and Nature second our effort , give u that most beautiful of beautiful thing -- a gracious and perfect moon of fall leaf .
There be not in all that vanish October one day that do not come in with auroral splendour and go out attend by a fair galaxy of even star -- not a day when there be not golden light in the wide pasture and purple haze in the ripened distance .
Never be anything so gorgeous a the maple tree that year .
Maples be tree that have primeval fire in their soul .
It glow out a little in their early youth , before the leaf open , in the redness and rosy-yellowness of their blossom , but in summer it be carefully hide under a demure , silver-lined greenness .
Then when autumn come , the maple give up try to be sober and flame out in all the barbaric splendour and gorgeousness of their real nature , make of the hill thing out of an Arabian Nights dream in the golden prime of good Haroun Alraschid .
You may never know what scarlet and crimson really be until you see them in their perfection on an October hillside , under the unfathomable blue of an autumn sky .
All the glow and radiance and joy at earth 's heart seem to have break loose in a splendid determination to express itself for once before the frost of winter chill her beating pulse .
It be the year 's carnival ere the dull Lenten day of leafless valley and penitential mist come .
The time of apple-picking have come around once more and we work joyously .
Uncle Blair pick apple with u , and between him and the Story Girl it be an October never to be forget .
`` Will you go far afield for a walk with me to-day ? ''
he say to her and me , one idle afternoon of opal sky , pied meadow and misty hill .
It be Saturday and Peter have go home ; Felix and Dan be help Uncle Alec top turnip ; Cecily and Felicity be make cooky for Sunday , so the Story Girl and I be alone in Uncle Stephen 's Walk .
We like to be alone together that last month , to think the long , long thought of youth and talk about our future .
There have grow up between u that summer a bond of sympathy that do not exist between u and the others .
We be old than they -- the Story Girl be fifteen and I be nearly that ; and all at once it seem a if we be immeasurably old than the rest , and possess of dream and vision and forward-reaching hope which they could not possibly share or understand .
At time we be still child , still interested in childish thing .
But there come hour when we seem to our two self very grow up and old , and in those hour we talk our dream and vision and hope , vague and splendid , a all such be , over together , and so begin to build up , out of the rainbow fragment of our childhood 's companionship , that rare and beautiful friendship which be to last all our life , enrich and enstarring them .
For there be no bond more lasting than that form by the mutual confidence of that magic time when youth be slip from the sheath of childhood and begin to wonder what lie for it beyond those misty hill that bind the golden road .
`` Where be you go ? ''
ask the Story Girl .
`` To ` the wood that belt the gray hillside ' -- ay , and overflow beyond it into many a valley purple-folded in immemorial peace , '' answer Uncle Blair .
`` I have a fancy for one more ramble in Prince Edward Island wood before I leave Canada again .
But I would not go alone .
So come , you two gay youthful thing to whom all life be yet fair and good , and we will seek the path to Arcady .
There will be many little thing along our way to make u glad .
Joyful sound will ` come ring down the wind ; ' a wealth of gypsy gold will be ours for the gathering ; we will learn the potent , unutterable charm of a dim spruce wood and the grace of flexile mountain ash fringe a lonely glen ; we will tryst with the folk of fur and feather ; we 'll hearken to the music of gray old fir .
Come , and you 'll have a ramble and an afternoon that you will both remember all your life . ''
We do have it ; never have it remembrance fade ; that idyllic afternoon of rove in the old Carlisle wood with the Story Girl and Uncle Blair gleam in my book of year , a page of live beauty .
Yet it be but a few hour of simple pleasure ; we wander pathlessly through the sylvan calm of those dear place which seem that day to be full of a great friendliness ; Uncle Blair saunter along behind u , whistle softly ; sometimes he talk to himself ; we delight in those brief revery of his ; Uncle Blair be the only man I have ever know who could , when he so will , `` talk like a book , '' and do it without seem ridiculous ; perhaps it be because he have the knack of choose `` fit audience , though few , '' and the proper time to appeal to that audience .
We go across the field , intend to skirt the wood at the back of Uncle Alec 's farm and find a lane that cut through Uncle Roger 's wood ; but before we come to it we stumble on a sly , wind little path quite by accident -- if , indeed , there can be such a thing a accident in the wood , where I be tempt to think we be lead by the Good People along such of their fairy way a they have a mind for u to walk in .
`` Go to , let u explore this , '' say Uncle Blair .
`` It always drag terribly at my heart to go past a wood lane if I can make any excuse at all for traverse it : for it be the by-ways that lead to the heart of the wood and we must follow them if we would know the forest and be know of it .
When we can really feel it wild heart beat against ours it subtle life will steal into our vein and make u it own for ever , so that no matter where we go or how wide we wander in the noisy way of city or over the lone way of the sea , we shall yet be draw back to the forest to find our most enduring kinship . ''
`` I always feel so SATISFIED in the wood , '' say the Story Girl dreamily , a we turn in under the low-swinging fir bough .
`` Trees seem such friendly thing . ''
`` They be the most friendly thing in God 's good creation , '' say Uncle Blair emphatically .
`` And it be so easy to live with them .
To hold converse with pine , to whisper secret with the poplar , to listen to the tale of old romance that beech have to tell , to walk in eloquent silence with self-contained fir , be to learn what real companionship be .
Besides , tree be the same all over the world .
A beech tree on the slope of the Pyrenees be just what a beech tree here in these Carlisle wood be ; and there use to be an old pine hereabouts whose twin brother I be well acquaint with in a dell among the Apennines .
Listen to those squirrel , will you , chatter over yonder .
Did you ever hear such a fuss over nothing ?
Squirrels be the gossip and busybody of the wood ; they have n't learn the fine reserve of it other denizen .
But after all , there be a certain shrill friendliness in their greeting . ''
`` They seem to be scold u , '' I say , laugh .
`` Oh , they be not half such scold a they sound , '' answer Uncle Blair gaily .
`` If they would but ` tak a thought and mend ' their shrew-like way they would be dear , lovable creature enough . ''
`` If I have to be an animal I think I 'd like to be a squirrel , '' say the Story Girl .
`` It must be next best thing to fly . ''
`` Just see what a spring that fellow give , '' laugh Uncle Blair .
`` And now listen to his song of triumph !
I suppose that chasm he clear seem a wide and deep to him a Niagara Gorge would to u if we leap over it .
Well , the wood people be a happy folk and very well satisfied with themselves . ''
Those who have follow a dim , wind , balsamic path to the unexpected hollow where a wood-spring lie have find the rarest secret the forest can reveal .
Such be our good fortune that day .
At the end of our path we find it , under the pine , a crystal-clear thing with lip unkissed by so much a a stray sunbeam .
`` It be easy to dream that this be one of the haunted spring of old romance , '' say Uncle Blair . ''
'T be an enchanted spot this , I be very sure , and we should go softly , speak low , l we disturb the rest of a white , wet naiad , or break some spell that have cost long year of mystic weaving . ''
`` It 's so easy to believe thing in the wood , '' say the Story Girl , shape a cup from a bit of golden-brown birch bark and fill it at the spring .
`` Drink a toast in that water , Sara , '' say Uncle Blair .
`` There 's not a doubt that it have some potent quality of magic in it and the wish you wish over it will come true . ''
The Story Girl lift her golden-hued flagon to her red lip .
Her hazel eye laugh at u over the brim .
`` Here 's to our future , '' she cry , `` I wish that every day of our life may be good than the one that go before . ''
`` An extravagant wish -- a very wish of youth , '' comment Uncle Blair , `` and yet in spite of it extravagance , a wish that will come true if you be true to yourselves .
In that case , every day WILL be good than all that go before -- but there will be many day , dear lad and lass , when you will not believe it . ''
We do not understand him , but we know Uncle Blair never explain his meaning .
When ask it he be wont to answer with a smile , `` Some day you 'll grow to it .
Wait for that . ''
So we address ourselves to follow the brook that steal away from the spring in it winding and doubling and tricky surprise .
`` A brook , '' quoth Uncle Blair , `` be the most changeful , bewitching , lovable thing in the world .
It be never in the same mind or mood two minute .
Here it be sigh and murmur a if it heart be break .
But listen -- yonder by the birch it be laugh a if it be enjoy some capital joke all by itself . ''
It be indeed a changeful brook ; here it would make a pool , dark and brooding and still , where we bend to look at our mirrored face ; then it grow communicative and gossip shallowly over a broken pebble bed where there be a diamond dance of sunbeam and no troutling or minnow could glide through without be see .
Sometimes it bank be high and steep , hung with slender ash and birch ; again they be mere , low margin , green with delicate moss , shelve out of the wood .
Once it come to a little precipice and fling itself over undauntedly in an indignation of foam , gather itself up rather dizzily among the mossy stone below .
It be some time before it get over it vexation ; it go boil and mutter along , fight with the rotten log that lie across it , and make far more fuss than be necessary over every root that interfere with it .
We be get tire of it ill-humour and talk of leave it , when it suddenly grow sweet-tempered again , swoop around a curve -- and presto , we be in fairyland .
It be a little dell far in the heart of the wood .
A row of birch fringe the brook , and each birch seem more exquisitely graceful and golden than her sister .
The wood recede from it on every hand , leave it lie in a pool of amber sunshine .
The yellow tree be mirror in the placid stream , with now and then a leaf fall on the water , mayhap to drift away and be use , a Uncle Blair suggest , by some adventurous wood sprite who have it in mind to fare forth to some far-off , legendary region where all the brook run into the sea .
`` Oh , what a lovely place ! ''
I exclaim , look around me with delight .
`` A spell of eternity be weave over it , surely , '' murmur Uncle Blair .
`` Winter may not touch it , or spring ever revisit it .
It should be like this for ever . ''
`` Let u never come here again , '' say the Story Girl softly , `` never , no matter how often we may be in Carlisle .
Then we will never see it change or different .
We can always remember it just a we see it now , and it will be like this for ever for u . ''
`` I 'm go to sketch it , '' say Uncle Blair .
While he sketch it the Story Girl and I sit on the bank of the brook and she tell me the story of the Sighing Reed .
It be a very simple little story , that of the slender brown reed which grow by the forest pool and always be sad and sighing because it could not utter music like the brook and the bird and the wind .
All the bright , beautiful thing around it mock it and laugh at it for it folly .
Who would ever look for music in it , a plain , brown , unbeautiful thing ?
But one day a youth come through the wood ; he be as beautiful a the spring ; he cut the brown reed and fashion it accord to his liking ; and then he put it to his lip and breathe on it ; and , oh , the music that float through the forest !
It be so entrance that everything -- brook and bird and wind -- grow silent to listen to it .
Never have anything so lovely be hear ; it be the music that have for so long be shut up in the soul of the sigh reed and be set free at last through it pain and suffering .
I have hear the Story Girl tell many a more dramatic tale ; but that one stand out for me in memory above them all , partly , perhaps , because of the spot in which she tell it , partly because it be the last one I be to hear her tell for many year -- the last one she be ever to tell me on the golden road .
When Uncle Blair have finish his sketch the shaft of sunshine be turn crimson and grow more and more remote ; the early autumn twilight be fall over the wood .
We leave our dell , say good-bye to it for ever , a the Story Girl have suggest , and we go slowly homeward through the fir wood , where a haunting , indescribable odour steal out to meet u .
`` There be magic in the scent of die fir , '' Uncle Blair be say aloud to himself , a if forgetting he be not quite alone .
`` It get into our blood like some rare , subtly-compounded wine , and thrill u with unutterable sweetness , a of recollection from some other fair life , live in some happy star .
Compared to it , all other scent seem heavy and earth-born , lure to the valley instead of the height .
But the tang of the fir summons onward and upward to some ` far-off , divine event ' -- some spiritual peak of attainment whence we shall see with unfaltering , unclouded vision the spire of some aerial City Beautiful , or the fulfilment of some fair , fadeless land of promise . ''
He be silent for a moment , then add in a low tone , `` Felicity , you love the scent of die fir .
If you be here tonight with me -- Felicity -- Felicity ! ''
Something in his voice make me suddenly sad .
I be comfort when I felt the Story Girl slip her hand into mine .
So we walk out of the wood into the autumn dusk .
We be in a little valley .
Half-way up the opposite slope a brush fire be burn clearly and steadily in a maple grove .
There be something indescribably allure in that fire , glow so redly against the dark background of forest and twilit hill .
`` Let u go to it , '' cry Uncle Blair , gaily , cast aside his sorrowful mood and catch our hand .
`` A wood fire at night have a fascination not to be resist by those of mortal race .
Hasten -- we must not lose time . ''
`` Oh , it will burn a long time yet , '' I gasp , for Uncle Blair be whisk u up the hill at a merciless rate .
`` You ca n't be sure .
It may have be light by some good , honest farmer-man , bent on tidy up his sugar orchard , but it may also , for anything we know , have be kindle by no earthly woodman a a beacon or summons to the tribe of fairyland , and may vanish away if we tarry . ''
It do not vanish and presently we find ourselves in the grove .
It be very beautiful ; the fire burn with a clear , steady glow and a soft crackle ; the long arcade beneath the tree be illuminate with a rosy radiance , beyond which lurk company of gray and purple shadow .
Everything be very still and dreamy and remote .
`` It be impossible that out there , just over the hill , lie a village of men , where tame household lamp be shin , '' say Uncle Blair .
`` I feel a if we must be thousand of mile away from everything we 've ever know , '' murmur the Story Girl .
`` So you be ! ''
say Uncle Blair emphatically .
`` You 're back in the youth of the race -- back in the beguilement of the young world .
Everything be in this hour -- the beauty of classic myth , the primal charm of the silent and the open , the lure of mystery .
Why , it 's a time and place when and where everything might come true -- when the men in green might creep out to join hand and dance around the fire , or dryad steal from their tree to warm their white limb , grow chilly in October frost , by the blaze .
I would n't be much surprised if we should see something of the kind .
Is n't that the flash of an ivory shoulder through yonder gloom ?
And do n't you see a queer little elfin face peer at u around that twisted gray trunk ?
But one ca n't be sure .
Mortal eyesight be too slow and clumsy a thing to match against the flicker of a pixy-litten fire . ''
Hand in hand we wander through that enchanted place , seek the folk of elf-land , `` and hear their mystic voice call , from fairy knoll and haunt hill . ''
Not till the fire die down into ash do we leave the grove .
Then we find that the full moon be gleam lustrously from a cloudless sky across the valley .
Between u and her stretch up a tall pine , wondrously straight and slender and branchless to it very top , where it overflow in a crest of dark bough against the silvery splendour behind it .
Beyond , the hill farm be lie in a suave , white radiance .
`` Does n't it seem a long , long time to you since we leave home this afternoon ? ''
ask the Story Girl .
`` And yet it be only a few hour . ''
Only a few hour -- true ; yet such hour be worth a cycle of common year untouched by the glory and the dream .
CHAPTER XXIX .
WE LOSE A FRIEND Our beautiful October be mar by one day of black tragedy -- the day Paddy die .
For Paddy , after seven year of a happy a life a ever a cat live , die suddenly -- of poison , a be suppose .
Where he have wander in the darkness to meet his doom we do not know , but in the frosty dawnlight he drag himself home to die .
We find him lie on the doorstep when we get up , and it do not need Aunt Janet 's curt announcement , or Uncle Blair 's reluctant shake of the head , to tell u that there be no chance of our pet recover this time .
We felt that nothing could be do .
Lard and sulphur on his paw would be of no use , nor would any visit to Peg Bowen avail .
We stand around in mournful silence ; the Story Girl sit down on the step and take poor Paddy upon her lap .
`` I s ` pose there 's no use even in pray now , '' say Cecily desperately .
`` It would n't do any harm to try , '' sob Felicity .
`` You need n't waste your prayer , '' say Dan mournfully , `` Pat be beyond human aid .
You can tell that by his eye .
Besides , I do n't believe it be the praying cure him last time . ''
`` No , it be Peg Bowen , '' declare Peter , `` but she could n't have bewitch him this time for she 's be away for month , nobody know where . ''
`` If he could only TELL u where he feel the bad ! ''
say Cecily piteously .
`` It 's so dreadful to see him suffer and not be able to do a single thing to help him ! ''
`` I do n't think he 's suffer much now , '' I say comfortingly .
The Story Girl say nothing .
She pass and repassed her long brown hand gently over her pet 's glossy fur .
Pat lift his head and essay to creep a little nearer to his beloved mistress .
The Story Girl draw his limp body close in her arm .
There be a plaintive little mew -- a long quiver -- and Paddy 's friendly soul have fare forth to wherever it be that good cat go .
`` Well , he 's go , '' say Dan , turn his back abruptly to u .
`` It do n't seem a if it can be true , '' sob Cecily .
`` This time yesterday morning he be full of life . ''
`` He drink two full saucer of cream , '' moan Felicity , `` and I saw him catch a mouse in the evening .
Maybe it be the last one he ever catch . ''
`` He do for many a mouse in his day , '' say Peter , anxious to pay his tribute to the depart . ''
` He be a cat -- take him for all in all .
We shall not look upon his like again , ' '' quote Uncle Blair .
Felicity and Cecily and Sara Ray cry so much that Aunt Janet lose patience completely and tell them sharply that they would have something to cry for some day -- which do not seem to comfort them much .
The Story Girl shed no tear , though the look in her eye hurt more than weeping .
`` After all , perhaps it 's for the best , '' she say drearily .
`` I 've be feel so badly over have to go away and leave Paddy .
No matter how kind you 'd all be to him I know he 'd miss me terribly .
He be n't like most cat who do n't care who come and go as long a they get plenty to eat .
Paddy would n't have be content without me . ''
`` Oh , no-o-o , oh , no-o-o , '' wail Sara Ray lugubriously .
Felix shoot a disgusted glance at her .
`` I do n't see what YOU be make such a fuss about , '' he say unfeelingly .
`` He be n't your cat . ''
`` But I l-l-oved him , '' sob Sara , `` and I always feel bad when my friend d-do . ''
`` I wish we could believe that cat go to heaven , like people , '' sigh Cecily .
`` Do you really think it be n't possible ? ''
Uncle Blair shake his head .
`` I 'm afraid not .
I 'd like to think cat have a chance for heaven , but I ca n't .
There 's nothing heavenly about cat , delightful creature though they be . ''
`` Blair , I 'm really surprise to hear the thing you say to the child , '' say Aunt Janet severely .
`` Surely you would n't prefer me to tell them that cat DO go to heaven , '' protest Uncle Blair .
`` I think it 's wicked to carry on about an animal a those child do , '' answer Aunt Janet decidedly , `` and you should n't encourage them .
Here now , child , stop make a fuss .
Bury that cat and get off to your apple picking . ''
We have to go to our work , but Paddy be not to be bury in any such off-hand fashion a that .
It be agree that we should bury him in the orchard at sunset that evening , and Sara Ray , who have to go home , declare she would be back for it , and implore u to wait for her if she do n't come exactly on time .
`` I may n't be able to get away till after milk , '' she sniff , `` but I do n't want to miss it .
Even a cat 's funeral be well than none at all . ''
`` Horrid thing ! ''
say Felicity , barely wait until Sara be out of earshot .
We work with heavy heart that day ; the girl cry bitterly most of the time and we boys whistle defiantly .
But a even drew on we begin to feel a sneaking interest in the detail of the funeral .
As Dan say , the thing should be do properly , since Paddy be no common cat .
The Story Girl select the spot for the grave , in a little corner behind the cherry copse , where early violet enskied the grass in spring , and we boys dig the grave , make it `` soft and narrow , '' a the heroine of the old ballad want hers make .
Sara Ray , who manage to come in time after all , and Felicity stand and watch u , but Cecily and the Story Girl keep far aloof .
`` This time last night you never think you 'd be dig Pat 's grave to-night , '' sigh Felicity .
`` We little k-know what a day will bring forth , '' sob Sara .
`` I 've hear the minister say that and it be true . ''
`` Of course it 's true .
It 's in the Bible ; but I do n't think you should repeat it in connection with a cat , '' say Felicity dubiously .
When all be in readiness the Story Girl bring her pet through the orchard where he have so often frisked and prowl .
No useless coffin enclose his breast but he repose in a neat cardboard box .
`` I wonder if it would be right to say ` ash to ash and dust to dust , ' '' say Peter .
`` No , it would n't , '' aver Felicity .
`` It would be real wicked . ''
`` I think we ought to sing a hymn , anyway , '' asseverate Sara Ray .
`` Well , we might do that , if it be n't a very religious one , '' concede Felicity .
`` How would ` Pull for the shore , sailor , pull for the shore , ' do ? ''
ask Cecily .
`` That never seem to me a very religious hymn . ''
`` But it do n't seem very appropriate to a funeral occasion either , '' say Felicity .
`` I think ` Lead , kindly light , ' would be ever so much more suitable , '' suggest Sara Ray , `` and it be kind of soothing and melancholy too . ''
`` We be not go to sing anything , '' say the Story Girl coldly .
`` Do you want to make the affair ridiculous ?
We will just fill up the grave quietly and put a flat stone over the top . ''
`` It be n't much like my idea of a funeral , '' mutter Sara Ray discontentedly .
`` Never mind , we 're go to have a real obituary about him in Our Magazine , '' whisper Cecily consolingly .
`` And Peter be go to cut his name on top of the stone , '' add Felicity .
`` Only we must n't let on to the grown-ups until it be do , because they might say it be n't right . ''
We leave the orchard , a sober little band , with the wind of the gray twilight blow round u .
Uncle Roger pass u at the gate .
`` So the last sad obsequies be over ? ''
he remark with a grin .
And we hat Uncle Roger .
But we love Uncle Blair because he say quietly , `` And so you 've bury your little comrade ? ''
So much may depend on the way a thing be say .
But not even Uncle Blair 's sympathy could take the sting out of the fact that there be no Paddy to get the froth that night at milk time .
Felicity cry bitterly all the time she be strain the milk .
Many human being have go to their graf unattended by as much real regret a follow that one gray pussy cat to his .
CHAPTER XXX .
PROPHECIES `` Here 's a letter for you from father , '' say Felix , toss it to me a he come through the orchard gate .
We have be pick apple all day , but be take a mid-afternoon rest around the well , with a cup of it sparkle cold water to refresh u .
I open the letter rather indifferently , for father , with all his excellent and lovable trait , be but a poor correspondent ; his letter be usually very brief and very unimportant .
This letter be brief enough , but it be freight with a message of weighty import .
I sit gaze stupidly at the sheet after I have read it until Felix exclaim , `` Bev , what 's the matter with you ?
What 's in that letter ? ''
`` Father be come home , '' I say dazedly .
`` He be to leave South America in a fortnight and will be here in November to take u back to Toronto . ''
Everybody gasp .
Sara Ray , of course , begin to cry , which aggravate me unreasonably .
`` Well , '' say Felix , when he get his second wind , `` I 'll be awful glad to see father again , but I tell you I do n't like the thought of leave here . ''
I felt exactly the same but , in view of Sara Ray 's tear , admit it I would not ; so I sit in grum silence while the other tongue wag .
`` If I be not go away myself I 'd feel just terrible , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Even a it be I 'm real sorry .
I 'd like to be able to think of you a all here together when I 'm go , have good time and write me about them . ''
`` It 'll be awfully dull when you fellows go , '' mutter Dan .
`` I 'm sure I do n't know what we 're ever go to do here this winter , '' say Felicity , with the calmness of despair .
`` Thank goodness there be no more father to come back , '' breathe Cecily with a vicious earnestness that make u all laugh , even in the midst of our dismay .
We work very half-heartedly the rest of the day , and it be not until we assemble in the orchard in the evening that our spirit recover something like their wonted level .
It be clear and slightly frosty ; the sun have decline behind a birch on a distant hill and it seem a tree with a blaze heart of fire .
The great golden willow at the lane gate be laughter-shaken in the wind of evening .
Even amid all the change of our shift world we could not be hopelessly low-spirited -- except Sara Ray , who be often so , and Peter , who be rarely so .
But Peter have be sorely vex in spirit for several day .
The time be approach for the October issue of Our Magazine and he have no genuine fiction ready for it .
He have take so much to heart Felicity 's taunt that his story be all true that he have determine to have a really-truly false one in the next number .
But the difficulty be to get anyone to write it .
He have ask the Story Girl to do it , but she refuse ; then he appeal to me and I shirk .
Finally Peter determine to write a story himself .
`` It ought n't to be any hard than write a poem and I manage that , '' he say dolefully .
He work at it in the evening in the granary loft , and the rest of u forebore to question him concern it , because he evidently dislike talk about his literary effort .
But this evening I have to ask him if he would soon have it ready , a I want to make up the paper .
`` It 's do , '' say Peter , with an air of gloomy triumph .
`` It do n't amount to much , but anyhow I make it all out of my own head .
Not one word of it be ever print or tell before , and nobody can say there be . ''
`` Then I guess we have all the stuff in and I 'll have Our Magazine ready to read by tomorrow night , '' I say .
`` I s ` pose it will be the last one we 'll have , '' sigh Cecily .
`` We ca n't carry it on after you all go , and it have be such fun . ''
`` Bev will be a real newspaper editor some day , '' declare the Story Girl , on whom the spirit of prophecy suddenly descend that night .
She be swing on the bough of an apple tree , with a crimson shawl wrap about her head , and her eye be bright with roguish fire .
`` How do you know he will ? ''
ask Felicity .
`` Oh , I can tell future , '' answer the Story Girl mysteriously .
`` I know what 's go to happen to all of you .
Shall I tell you ? ''
`` Do , just for the fun of it , '' I say .
`` Then some day we 'll know just how near you come to guess right .
Go on .
What else about me ? ''
`` You 'll write book , too , and travel all over the world , '' continue the Story Girl .
`` Felix will be fat to the end of his life , and he will be a grandfather before he be fifty , and he will wear a long black beard . ''
`` I wo n't , '' cry Felix disgustedly .
`` I hate whisker .
Maybe I ca n't help the grandfather part , but I CAN help have a beard . ''
`` You ca n't .
It 's write in the star . '' ''
` Tai n't .
The star ca n't prevent me from shave . ''
`` Wo n't Grandpa Felix sound awful funny ? ''
reflect Felicity .
`` Peter will be a minister , '' go on the Story Girl .
`` Well , I might be something bad , '' remark Peter , in a not ungratified tone .
`` Dan will be a farmer and will marry a girl whose name begin with K and he will have eleven child .
And he 'll vote Grit . ''
`` I wo n't , '' cry scandalize Dan .
`` You do n't know a thing about it .
Catch ME ever vote Grit !
As for the rest of it -- I do n't care .
Farming 's well enough , though I 'd rather be a sailor . ''
`` Do n't talk such nonsense , '' protest Felicity sharply .
`` What on earth do you want to be a sailor for and be drown ? ''
`` All sailor be n't drown , '' say Dan .
`` Most of them be .
Look at Uncle Stephen . ''
`` You ai n't sure he be drown . ''
`` Well , he disappear , and that be bad . ''
`` How do you know ?
Disappearing might be real easy . ''
`` It 's not very easy for your family . ''
`` Hush , let 's hear the rest of the prediction , '' say Cecily .
`` Felicity , '' resume the Story Girl gravely , `` will marry a minister . ''
Sara Ray giggle and Felicity blush .
Peter try hard not to look too self-consciously delighted .
`` She will be a perfect housekeeper and will teach a Sunday School class and be very happy all her life . ''
`` Will her husband be happy ? ''
queried Dan solemnly .
`` I guess he 'll be as happy a your wife , '' retort Felicity reddening .
`` He 'll be the happy man in the world , '' declare Peter warmly .
`` What about me ? ''
ask Sara Ray .
The Story Girl look rather puzzle .
It be so hard to imagine Sara Ray a have any kind of future .
Yet Sara be plainly anxious to have her fortune tell and must be gratify .
`` You 'll be marry , '' say the Story Girl recklessly , `` and you 'll live to be nearly a hundred year old , and go to dozen of funeral and have a great many sick spell .
You will learn not to cry after you be seventy ; but your husband will never go to church . ''
`` I 'm glad you warn me , '' say Sara Ray solemnly , `` because now I know I 'll make him promise before I marry him that he will go . ''
`` He wo n't keep the promise , '' say the Story Girl , shake her head .
`` But it be get cold and Cecily be cough .
Let u go in . ''
`` You have n't tell my fortune , '' protest Cecily disappointedly .
The Story Girl look very tenderly at Cecily -- at the smooth little brown head , at the soft , shin eye , at the cheek that be often over-rosy after slight exertion , at the little sunburned hand that be always busy do faithful work or quiet kindness .
A very strange look come over the Story Girl 's face ; her eye grow sad and far-reaching , a if of a verity they pierce beyond the mist of hidden year .
`` I could n't tell any fortune half good enough for you , dear , '' she say , slip her arm round Cecily .
`` You deserve everything good and lovely .
But you know I 've only be in fun -- of course I do n't know anything about what 's go to happen to u . ''
`` Perhaps you know more than you think for , '' say Sara Ray , who seem much pleased with her fortune and anxious to believe it , despite the husband who would n't go to church .
`` But I 'd like to be tell my fortune , even in fun , '' persist Cecily .
`` Everybody you meet will love you as long a you live . ''
say the Story Girl .
`` There that 's the very nice fortune I can tell you , and it will come true whether the others do or not , and now we must go in . ''
We go , Cecily still a little disappointed .
In late year I often wonder why the Story Girl refuse to tell her fortune that night .
Did some strange gleam of foreknowledge fall for a moment across her mirth-making ?
Did she realize in a flash of prescience that there be no earthly future for our sweet Cecily ?
Not for her be to be the lengthening shadow or the fading garland .
The end be to come while the rainbow still sparkle on her wine of life , ere a single petal have fall from her rise of joy .
Long life be before all the others who trysted that night in the old homestead orchard ; but Cecily 's maiden foot be never to leave the golden road .
CHAPTER XXXI .
THE LAST NUMBER OF OUR MAGAZINE EDITORIAL It be with heartfelt regret that we take up our pen to announce that this will be the last number of Our Magazine .
We have edit ten number of it and it have be successful beyond our expectation .
It have to be discontinue by reason of circumstance over which we have no control and not because we have lose interest in it .
Everybody have do his or her best for Our Magazine .
Prince Edward Island expect everyone to do his and her duty and everyone do it .
Mr. Dan King conduct the etiquette department in a way worthy of the Family Guide itself .
He be especially entitle to commendation because he labour under the disadvantage of have to furnish most of the question as well a the answer .
Miss Felicity King have edit our helpful household department very ably , and Miss Cecily King 's fashion note be always up to date .
The personal column be well look after by Miss Sara Stanley and the story page have be a marked success under the able management of Mr. Peter Craig , to whose original story in this issue , `` The Battle of the Partridge Eggs , '' we would call especial attention .
The Exciting Adventure series have also be very popular .
And now , in closing , we bid farewell to our staff and thank them one and all for their help and co-operation in the past year .
We have enjoy our work and we trust that they have too .
We wish them all happiness and success in year to come , and we hope that the recollection of Our Magazine will not be hold least dear among the memory of their childhood .
-LRB- SOBS FROM THE GIRLS -RRB- : `` INDEED IT WO N'T ! ''
OBITUARY On October eighteenth , Patrick Grayfur depart for that bourne whence no traveller return .
He be only a cat , but he have be our faithful friend for a long time and we be n't ashamed to be sorry for him .
There be lot of people who be not a friendly and gentlemanly a Paddy be , and he be a great mouser .
We bury all that be mortal of poor Pat in the orchard and we be never go to forget him .
We have resolve that whenever the date of his death come round we 'll bow our head and pronounce his name at the hour of his funeral .
If we be anywhere where we ca n't say the name out loud we 'll whisper it .
`` Farewell , dear Paddy , in all the year that be to be We 'll cherish your memory faithfully . ''
-LSB- 1 -RSB- MY MOST EXCITING ADVENTURE My most exciting adventure be the day I fell off Uncle Roger 's loft two year ago .
I be n't excite until it be all over because I have n't time to be .
The Story Girl and I be look for egg in the loft .
It be fill with wheat straw nearly to the roof and it be an awful distance from u to the floor .
And wheat straw be so slippery .
I make a little spring and the straw slip from under my foot and there I be go head first down from the loft .
It seem to me I be an awful long time fall , but the Story Girl say I could n't have be more than three second .
But I know that I think five thought and there seem to be quite a long time between them .
The first thing I think be , what have happen , because I really do n't know at first , it be so sudden .
Then after a spell I think the answer , I be fall off the loft .
And then I think , what will happen to me when I strike the floor , and after another little spell I think , I 'll be kill .
And then I think , well , I do n't care .
I really be n't a bit frightened .
I just be quite willing to be kill .
If there have n't be a big pile of chaff on the barn floor these word would never have be write .
But there be and I fell on it and be n't a bit hurt , only my hair and mouth and eye and ear get all full of chaff .
The strange part be that I be n't a bit frighten when I think I be go to be kill , but after all the danger be over I be awfully frighten and tremble so the Story Girl have to help me into the house .
FELICITY KING .
THE BATTLE OF THE PARTRIDGE EGGS Once upon a time there live about half a mile from a forrest a farmer and his wife and his son and daughter and a granddaughter .
The farmer and his wife love this little girl very much but she cause them great trouble by run away into the wood and they often spend haf day look for her .
One day she wonder far into the forrest than usual and she begin to be hungry .
Then night close in .
She ask a fox where she could get something to eat .
The fox tell her he know where there be a partridges nest and a bluejays nest full of egg .
So he lead her to the nest and she take five egg out of each .
When the bird come home they miss the egg and fly into a rage .
The bluejay put on his topcoat and be go to the partridge for law when he meet the partridge come to him .
They light up a fire and commence sin their deed when they hear a tremendous howl close behind them .
They jump up and put out the fire and be immejutly attack by five great wolf .
The next day the little girl be rambelling through the wood when they saw her and take her prisoner .
After she have confess that she have steal the egg they tell her to raise an army .
They would have to fight over the nest of egg and whoever one would have the egg .
So the partridge raise a great army of all kind of bird except robin and the little girl get all the robin and fox and bee and wasp .
And best of all the little girl have a gun and plenty of ammunishun .
The leader of her army be a wolf .
The result of the battle be that all the bird be kill except the partridge and the bluejay and they be take prisoner and starve to death .
The little girl be then take prisoner by a witch and cast into a dunjun full of snake where she die from their bite and people who go through the forrest after that be take prisoner by her ghost and cast into the same dunjun where they die .
About a year after the wood turn into a gold castle and one morning everything have vanish except a piece of a tree .
PETER CRAIG .
-LRB- DAN , WITH A WHISTLE : -- `` Well , I guess nobody can say Peter ca n't write fiction after THAT . ''
SARA RAY , WIPING AWAY HER TEARS : -- `` It 's a very interesting story , but it end SO sadly . ''
FELIX : -- `` What make you call it The Battle of the Partridge Eggs when the bluejay have just as much to do with it ? ''
PETER , SHORTLY : -- `` Because it sound well that way . ''
FELICITY : -- `` Did she eat the egg raw ? ''
SARA RAY : -- `` Poor little thing , I suppose if you 're starve you ca n't be very particular . ''
CECILY , SIGHING : -- `` I wish you 'd let her go home safe , Peter , and not put her to such a cruel death . ''
BEVERLEY : -- `` I do n't quite understand where the little girl get her gun and ammunition . ''
PETER , SUSPECTING THAT HE IS BEING MADE FUN OF : -- `` If you could write a good story , why do n't you ?
I give you the chance . ''
THE STORY GIRL , WITH A PRETERNATURALLY SOLEMN FACE : -- `` You should n't criticize Peter 's story like that .
It 's a fairy tale , you know , and anything can happen in a fairy tale . ''
FELICITY : -- `` There be n't a word about fairy in it ! ''
CECILY : -- `` Besides , fairy tale always end nicely and this do n't . ''
PETER , SULKILY : -- `` I want to punish her for run away from home . ''
DAN : -- `` Well , I guess you do it all right . ''
CECILY : -- `` Oh , well , it be very interesting , and that be all that be really necessary in a story . '' -RRB-
PERSONALS Mr. Blair Stanley be visit friend and relative in Carlisle .
He intend return to Europe shortly .
His daughter , Miss Sara , will accompany him .
Mr. Alan King be expect home from South America next month .
His son will return with him to Toronto .
Beverley and Felix have make host of friend during their stay in Carlisle and will be much miss in social circle .
The Mission Band of Carlisle Presbyterian Church complete their missionary quilt last week .
Miss Cecily King collect the large sum on her square .
Congratulations , Cecily .
Mr. Peter Craig will be reside in Markdale after October and will attend school there this winter .
Peter be a good fellow and we all wish him success and prosperity .
Apple picking be almost end .
There be an unusually heavy crop this year .
Potatoes , not so good .
HOUSEHOLD DEPARTMENT Apple pie be the order of the day .
Eggs be a very good price now .
Uncle Roger say it be n't fair to have to pay as much for a dozen little eggs a a dozen big one , but they go just as far .
FELICITY KING .
ETIQUETTE DEPARTMENT F-l-t-y .
Is it consider good form to eat peppermint in church ?
Ans . ; No , not if a witch give them to you .
No , F-l-x , we would not call Treasure Island or the Pilgrim 's Progress dime novel .
Yes , P-t-r , when you call on a young lady and her mother offer you a slice of bread and jam it be quite polite for you to accept it .
DAN KING .
FASHION NOTES Necklaces of roseberries be very much worn now .
It be consider smart to wear your school hat tilt over your left eye .
Bangs be come in .
Em Frewen have them .
She go to Summerside for a visit and come back with them .
All the girl in school be go to bang their hair as soon a their mother will let them .
But I do not intend to bang mine .
CECILY KING .
-LRB- SARA RAY , DESPAIRINGLY : -- `` I know ma will never let ME have bang . '' -RRB-
FUNNY PARAGRAPHS D-n .
What be detail ?
C-l-y .
I be not sure , but I think they be thing that be leave over .
-LRB- CECILY , WONDERINGLY : -- `` I do n't see why that be put among the funny paragraph .
Should n't it have go in the General Information department ? '' -RRB-
Old Mr. McIntyre 's son on the Markdale Road have be very sick for several year and somebody be sympathize with him because his son be go to die .
`` Oh , '' Mr. McIntyre say , quite easy , `` he might a weel be awa ' .
He 's only retarding buzziness . ''
FELIX KING .
GENERAL INFORMATION BUREAU P-t-r .
What kind of people live in uninhabited place ?
Ans . : Cannibals , likely .
FELIX KING .
-LSB- Footnote 1 : The obituary be write by Mr. Felix King , but the two line of poetry be compose by Miss Sara Ray . -RSB-
CHAPTER XXXII .
OUR LAST EVENING TOGETHER IT be the evening before the day on which the Story Girl and Uncle Blair be to leave u , and we be keep our last tryst together in the orchard where we have spend so many happy hour .
We have make a pilgrimage to all the old haunt -- the hill field , the spruce wood , the dairy , Grandfather King 's willow , the Pulpit Stone , Pat 's grave , and Uncle Stephen 's Walk ; and now we foregather in the sere grass about the old well and feast on the little jam turnover Felicity have make that day specially for the occasion .
`` I wonder if we 'll ever all be together again , '' sigh Cecily .
`` I wonder when I 'll get jam turnover like this again , '' say the Story Girl , try to be gay but not make much of a success of it .
`` If Paris be n't so far away I could send you a box of nice thing now and then , '' say Felicity forlornly , `` but I suppose there 's no use thinking of that .
Dear know what they 'll give you to eat over there . ''
`` Oh , the French have the reputation of be the best cook in the world , '' rejoin the Story Girl , `` but I know they ca n't beat your jam turnover and plum puff , Felicity .
Many a time I 'll be hanker after them . ''
`` If we ever do meet again you 'll be grow up , '' say Felicity gloomily .
`` Well , you wo n't have stand still yourselves , you know . ''
`` No , but that 's just the bad of it .
We 'll all be different and everything will be change . ''
`` Just think , '' say Cecily , `` last New Year 's Eve we be wonder what would happen this year ; and what a lot of thing have happen that we never expect .
Oh , dear ! ''
`` If thing never happen life would be pretty dull , '' say the Story Girl briskly .
`` Oh , do n't look so dismal , all of you . ''
`` It 's hard to be cheerful when everybody 's go away , '' sigh Cecily .
`` Well , let 's pretend to be , anyway , '' insist the Story Girl .
`` Do n't let 's think of parting .
Let 's think instead of how much we 've laugh this last year or so .
I 'm sure I shall never forget this dear old place .
We 've have so many good time here . ''
`` And some bad time , too , '' remind Felix .
`` Remember when Dan et the bad berry last summer ? ''
`` And the time we be so scar over that bell ring in the house , '' grin Peter .
`` And the Judgment Day , '' add Dan .
`` And the time Paddy be bewitch , '' suggest Sara Ray .
`` And when Peter be die of the measles , '' say Felicity .
`` And the time Jimmy Patterson be lose , '' say Dan .
`` Gee-whiz , but that scar me out of a year 's growth . ''
`` Do you remember the time we take the magic seed , '' grin Peter .
`` Were n't we silly ? ''
say Felicity .
`` I really can never look Billy Robinson in the face when I meet him .
I 'm always sure he 's laugh at me in his sleeve . ''
`` It 's Billy Robinson who ought to be ashamed when he meet you or any of u , '' comment Cecily severely .
`` I 'd rather be cheat than cheat other people . ''
`` Do you mind the time we buy God 's picture ? ''
ask Peter .
`` I wonder if it 's where we bury it yet , '' speculate Felix .
`` I put a stone over it , just a we do over Pat , '' say Cecily .
`` I wish I could forget what God look like , '' sigh Sara Ray .
`` I ca n't forget it -- and I ca n't forget what the bad place be like either , ever since Peter preach that sermon on it . ''
`` When you get to be a real minister you 'll have to preach that sermon over again , Peter , '' grin Dan .
`` My Aunt Jane use to say that people need a sermon on that place once in a while , '' retort Peter seriously .
`` Do you mind the night I et the cucumber and milk to make me dream ? ''
say Cecily .
And therewith we hunt out our old dream book to read them again , and , forgetful of coming parting , laugh over them till the old orchard echoed to our mirth .
When we have finish we stand in a circle around the well and pledge `` eternal friendship '' in a cup of it unrivalled water .
Then we join hand and sang `` Auld Lang Syne . ''
Sara Ray cry bitterly in lieu of singing .
`` Look here , '' say the Story Girl , a we turn to leave the old orchard , `` I want to ask a favour of you all .
Do n't say good-bye to me tomorrow morning . ''
`` Why not ? ''
demand Felicity in astonishment .
`` Because it 's such a hopeless sort of word .
Do n't let 's SAY it at all .
Just see me off with a wave of your hand .
It wo n't seem half so bad then .
And do n't any of you cry if you can help it .
I want to remember you all smile . ''
We go out of the old orchard where the autumn night wind be begin to make it weird music in the russet bough , and shut the little gate behind u .
Our revel there be end .
CHAPTER XXXIII .
THE STORY GIRL GOES The morning dawn , rosy and clear and frosty .
Everybody be up early , for the traveller must leave in time to catch the nine o'clock train .
The horse be harness and Uncle Alec be wait by the door .
Aunt Janet be cry , but everybody else be make a valiant effort not to .
The Awkward Man and Mrs. Dale come to see the last of their favourite .
Mrs. Dale have bring her a glorious sheaf of chrysanthemum , and the Awkward Man give her , quite gracefully , another little , old , limp book from his library .
`` Read it when you be sad or happy or lonely or discourage or hopeful , '' he say gravely .
`` He have really improve very much since he get married , '' whisper Felicity to me .
Sara Stanley wear a smart new travel suit and a blue felt hat with a white feather .
She look so horribly grow up in it that we felt a if she be lose to u already .
Sara Ray have vow tearfully the night before that she would be up in the morning to say farewell .
But at this juncture Judy Pineau appear to say that Sara , with her usual luck , have a sore throat , and that her mother consequently would not permit her to come .
So Sara have write her parting word in a three-cornered pink note .
`` My OWN DARLING FRIEND : -- WORDS CAN NOT EXPRESS my feeling over not be able to go up this morning to say good-bye to one I so FONDLY ADORE .
When I think that I can not SEE YOU AGAIN my heart be almost TOO FULL FOR UTTERANCE .
But mother say I can not and I MUST OBEY .
But I will be present IN SPIRIT .
It just BREAKS MY HEART that you be go SO FAR AWAY .
You have always be SO KIND to me and never hurt my feeling AS SOME DO and I shall miss you SO MUCH .
But I earnestly HOPE AND PRAY that you will be HAPPY AND PROSPEROUS wherever YOUR LOT IS CAST and not be seasick on THE GREAT OCEAN .
I hope you will find time AMONG YOUR MANY DUTIES to write me a letter ONCE IN A WHILE .
I shall ALWAYS REMEMBER YOU and please remember me .
I hope we WILL MEET AGAIN sometime , but if not may we meet in A FAR BETTER WORLD where there be no SAD PARTINGS .
`` Your true and love friend , `` SARA RAY '' `` Poor little Sara , '' say the Story Girl , with a queer catch in her voice , a she slip the tear-blotted note into her pocket .
`` She be n't a bad little soul , and I 'm sorry I could n't see her once more , though maybe it 's just as well for she 'd have to cry and set u all off .
I WO N'T cry .
Felicity , do n't you dare .
Oh , you dear , darling people , I love you all so much and I 'll go on love you always . ''
`` Mind you write u every week at the very least , '' say Felicity , wink furiously .
`` Blair , Blair , watch over the child well , '' say Aunt Janet .
`` Remember , she have no mother . ''
The Story Girl run over to the buggy and climb in .
Uncle Blair follow her .
Her arm be full of Mrs. Dale 's chrysanthemum , hold close up to her face , and her beautiful eye shone softly at u over them .
No good-bye be say , a she wish .
We all smile bravely and wave our hand a they drive out of the lane and down the moist red road into the shadow of the fir wood in the valley .
But we still stand there , for we know we should see the Story Girl once more .
Beyond the fir wood be an open curve in the road and she have promise to wave a last farewell a they pass around it .
We watch the curve in silence , stand in a sorrowful little group in the sunshine of the autumn morning .
The delight of the world have be ours on the golden road .
It have entice u with daisy and reward u with rose .
Blossom and lyric have wait on our wish .
Thoughts , careless and sweet , have visit u .
Laughter have be our comrade and fearless Hope our guide .
But now the shadow of change be over it .
`` There she be , '' cry Felicity .
The Story Girl stand up and wave her chrysanthemum at u .
We wave wildly back until the buggy have drive around the curve .
Then we go slowly and silently back to the house .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Vision_of_the_Fountain_ ( From_ '' Twice_Told_Tales '' ) .txt.out
At fifteen , I become a resident in a country village , more than a hundred mile from home .
The morning after my arrival -- a September morning , but warm and bright a any in July -- I ramble into a wood of oak , with a few walnut-trees intermixed , form the close shade above my head .
The ground be rocky , uneven , overgrown with bush and clump of young sapling , and traverse only by cattle-paths .
The track , which I chance to follow , lead me to a crystal spring , with a border of grass , a freshly green a on May morning , and overshadow by the limb of a great oak .
One solitary sunbeam find it way down , and play like a goldfish in the water .
From my childhood , I have love to gaze into a spring .
The water fill a circular basin , small but deep , and set round with stone , some of which be cover with slimy moss , the others naked , and of variegated hue , reddish , white , and brown .
The bottom be cover with coarse sand , which sparkle in the lonely sunbeam , and seem to illuminate the spring with an unborrowed light .
In one spot , the gush of the water violently agitate the sand , but without obscure the fountain , or break the glassiness of it surface .
It appear a if some living creature be about to emerge -- the Naiad of the spring , perhaps -- in the shape of a beautiful young woman , with a gown of filmy water-moss , a belt of rainbow-drops , and a cold , pure , passionless countenance .
How would the beholder shiver , pleasantly , yet fearfully , to see her sit on one of the stone , paddle her white foot in the ripple , and throw up water , to sparkle in the sun !
Wherever she lay her hand on grass and flower , they would immediately be moist , a with morning dew .
Then would she set about her labor , like a careful housewife , to clear the fountain of withered leaf , and bit of slimy wood , and old acorn from the oak above , and grain of corn leave by cattle in drinking , till the bright sand , in the bright water , be like a treasury of diamond .
But , should the intruder approach too near , he would find only the drop of a summer shower glisten about the spot where he have see her .
Reclining on the border of grass , where the dewy goddess should have be , I bend forward , and a pair of eye meet mine within the watery mirror .
They be the reflection of my own .
I look again , and lo !
another face , deep in the fountain than my own image , more distinct in all the feature , yet faint a thought .
The vision have the aspect of a fair young girl , with lock of paly gold .
A mirthful expression laugh in the eye and dimple over the whole shadowy countenance , till it seem just what a fountain would be , if , while dance merrily into the sunshine , it should assume the shape of woman .
Through the dim rosiness of the cheek , I could see the brown leaf , the slimy twig , the acorn , and the sparkling sand .
The solitary sunbeam be diffuse among the golden hair , which melt into it faint brightness , and become a glory round that head so beautiful !
My description can give no idea how suddenly the fountain be thus tenant , and how soon it be leave desolate .
I breathe ; and there be the face !
I hold my breath ; and it be go !
Had it pass away , or fade into nothing ?
I doubt whether it have ever be .
My sweet reader , what a dreamy and delicious hour do I spend , where that vision find and leave me !
For a long time I sit perfectly still , wait till it should reappear , and fearful that the slight motion , or even the flutter of my breath , might frighten it away .
Thus have I often start from a pleasant dream , and then keep quiet , in hope to wile it back .
Deep be my musing , a to the race and attribute of that ethereal be .
Had I create her ?
Was she the daughter of my fancy , akin to those strange shape which peep under the lid of child 's eye ?
And do her beauty gladden me , for that one moment , and then die ?
Or be she a water-nymph within the fountain , or fairy , or woodland goddess peeping over my shoulder , or the ghost of some forsaken maid , who have drown herself for love ?
Or , in good truth , have a lovely girl , with a warm heart , and lip that would bear pressure , steal softly behind me , and thrown her image into the spring ?
I watch and wait , but no vision come again .
I depart , but with a spell upon me , which draw me back , that same afternoon , to the haunt spring .
There be the water gushing , the sand sparkling , and the sunbeam glimmering .
There the vision be not , but only a great frog , the hermit of that solitude , who immediately withdraw his speckle snout and make himself invisible , all except a pair of long leg , beneath a stone .
Methought he have a devilish look !
I could have slay him !
Thus do the Vision leave me ; and many a doleful day succeed to the parting moment .
By the spring , and in the wood , and on the hill , and through the village ; at dewy sunrise , burn noon , and at that magic hour of sunset , when she have vanish from my sight , I seek her , but in vain .
Weeks come and go , month roll away , and she appear not in them .
I impart my mystery to none , but wander to and fro , or sit in solitude , like one that have catch a glimpse of heaven , and could take no more joy on earth .
I withdraw into an inner world , where my thought live and breathe , and the Vision in the midst of them .
Without intend it , I become at once the author and hero of a romance , conjure up rival , imagine event , the action of others and my own , and experience every change of passion , till jealousy and despair have their end in bliss .
O , have I the burn fancy of my early youth , with manhood 's colder gift , the power of expression , your heart , sweet lady , should flutter at my tale !
In the middle of January , I be summon home .
The day before my departure , visit the spot which have be hallow by the Vision , I find that the spring have a frozen bosom , and nothing but the snow and a glare of winter sunshine , on the hill of the rainbow .
`` Let me hope , '' think I , `` or my heart will be as icy a the fountain , and the whole world as desolate a this snowy hill . ''
Most of the day be spend in prepare for the journey , which be to commence at four o'clock the next morning .
About an hour after supper , when all be in readiness , I descend from my chamber to the sitting-room , to take leave of the old clergyman and his family , with whom I have be an inmate .
A gust of wind blew out my lamp a I pass through the entry .
According to their invariable custom , so pleasant a one when the fire blaze cheerfully , the family be sit in the parlor , with no other light than what come from the hearth .
As the good clergyman 's scanty stipend compel him to use all sort of economy , the foundation of his fire be always a large heap of tan , or ground bark , which would smoulder away , from morning till night , with a dull warmth and no flame .
This even the heap of tan be newly put on , and surmount with three stick of red-oak , full of moisture , and a few piece of dry pine , that have not yet kindle .
There be no light , except the little that come sullenly from two half-burned brand , without even glimmer on the andiron .
But I know the position of the old minister 's arm-chair , and also where his wife sit , with her knitting-work , and how to avoid his two daughter , one a stout country lass , and the other a consumptive girl .
Groping through the gloom , I find my own place next to that of the son , a learned collegian , who have come home to keep school in the village during the winter vacation .
I notice that there be less room than usual , to-night , between the collegian 's chair and mine .
As people be always taciturn in the dark , not a word be say for some time after my entrance .
Nothing break the stillness but the regular click of the matron 's knitting-needles .
At time , the fire throw out a brief and dusky gleam , which twinkle on the old man 's glass , and hover doubtfully round our circle , but be far too faint to portray the individual who compose it .
Were we not like ghost ?
Dreamy a the scene be , might it not be a type of the mode in which depart people , who have know and love each other here , would hold communion in eternity ?
We be aware of each other 's presence , not by sight , nor sound , nor touch , but by an inward consciousness .
Would it not be so among the dead ?
The silence be interrupt by the consumptive daughter , address a remark to some one in the circle , whom she call Rachel .
Her tremulous and decayed accent be answer by a single word , but in a voice that make me start , and bend towards the spot whence it have proceed .
Had I ever hear that sweet , low tone ?
If not , why do it rouse up so many old recollection , or mockery of such , the shadow of thing familiar , yet unknown , and fill my mind with confused image of her feature who have speak , though bury in the gloom of the parlor ?
Whom have my heart recognize , that it throb so ?
I listen , to catch her gentle breathing , and strive , by the intensity of my gaze , to picture forth a shape where none be visible .
Suddenly , the dry pine caught ; the fire blaze up with a ruddy glow ; and where the darkness have be , there be she , -- the Vision of the Fountain !
A spirit of radiance only , she have vanish with the rainbow , and appear again in the firelight , perhaps to flicker with the blaze , and be go .
Yet , her cheek be rosy and life-like , and her feature , in the bright warmth of the room , be even sweet and tender than my recollection of them .
She know me !
The mirthful expression that have laugh in her eye and dimple over her countenance , when I behold her faint beauty in the fountain , be laugh and dimple there now .
One moment our glance mingle , -- the next , down roll the heap of tan upon the kindle wood , -- and darkness snatch away that Daughter of the Light , and give her back to me no more !
Fair lady , there be nothing more to tell .
Must the simple mystery be reveal , then , that Rachel be the daughter of the village squire , and have leave home for a boarding-school , the morning after I arrive , and return the day before my departure ?
If I transform her to an angel , it be what every youthful lover do for his mistress .
Therein consist the essence of my story .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Happy_Jack.txt.out
CHAPTER I HAPPY JACK DROPS A NUT Save a little every day , And for the future put away .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack Squirrel sit on the tip of one of the high branch of a big hickory tree .
Happy Jack be up very early that morning .
In fact , jolly , round , red Mr. Sun be still in his bed behind the Purple Hills when Happy Jack hop briskly out of bed .
He wash himself thoroughly and be ready for business by the time Mr. Sun begin his climb up in the blue , blue sky .
You see , Happy Jack have find that big hickory tree just load with nut all ripe and ready to gather .
He be quite sure that no one else have find that special tree , and he want to get all the nut before any one else find out about them .
So he be all ready and off he race to the big tree just as soon a it be light enough to see .
`` The nut that grow in the hickory tree -- They 're all for me !
They 're all for me ! ''
Happy Jack be hum that little song a he rest for a few minute ` way up in the top of the tree and wonder if his storehouse would hold all these big , fat nut .
Just then he hear a great scold a little way over in the Green Forest .
Happy Jack stop hum and listen .
He know that voice .
It be his cousin 's voice -- the voice of Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
Happy Jack frown .
`` I hope he wo n't come over this way , '' mutter Happy Jack .
He do not love his cousin Chatterer anyway , and then there be the big tree full of hickory nut !
He do n't want Chatterer to find that .
I be afraid that Happy Jack be selfish .
There be more nut than he could possibly eat in one winter , and yet he be n't willing that his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , should have a single one .
Now Chatterer be short-tempered and a great scold .
Some one or something have upset him this morning , and he be scold as fast a his tongue could go , a he come run right towards the tree in which Happy Jack be sit .
Happy Jack sit perfectly still and watch .
He do n't move so much a the tip of his big gray tail .
Would Chatterer go past and not see that big tree full of nut ?
It look very much a if he would , for he be so busy scold that he be n't pay much attention to other thing .
Happy Jack smile a Chatterer come run under the tree without once look up .
He be so tickled that he start to hug himself and do n't remember that he be hold a big , fat nut in his hand .
Of course he drop it .
Where do you think it go ?
Well , Sir , it fell straight down , from the top of that tall tree , and it land right on the head of Chatterer the Red Squirrel !
`` My star ! ''
cried Chatterer , stop his scolding and his run together , and rub his head where the nut have hit him .
Then he look up to see where it have come from .
Of course , he look straight up at Happy Jack .
`` You do that purposely ! ''
scream Chatterer , his short temper flare up .
`` I do n't ! ''
snap Happy Jack .
`` You do ! ''
`` I do n't ! ''
Oh , dear , oh , dear , such a sight !
two little Squirrels , one in a gray suit and one in a red suit , contradict each other and call name !
It be such a sad , sad sight , for you know they be cousin .
CHAPTER II THE QUARREL It 's up to you and up to me To see how thrifty we can be .
To do our bit like soldier true It 's up to me and up to you .
Happy Jack .
Two angry little people be make a dreadful noise in the Green Forest .
It be a beautiful morning , a very beautiful fall morning , but all the beauty of it be be spoil by the dreadful noise these two little people .
You see they be quarrel .
Yes , Sir , they be quarrel , and it be n't at all nice to see or nice to hear .
You know who they be .
One be Happy Jack Squirrel , who wear a coat of gray , and the other be Chatterer the Red Squirrel , who always wear a red coat with vest of white .
When Happy Jack have drop that nut from the tiptop of the tall hickory tree and it have land right on top of Chatterer 's head it really have be an accident .
All the time Happy Jack have be sit as still a still could be , hop that his cousin Chatterer would pass by without look up and so see the big fat nut in the top of that tree .
You see Happy Jack be greedy and want all of them himself .
Now Chatterer the Red Squirrel have a sharp temper , and also he have sharp eye .
All the time he be scold Happy Jack and call him names Chatterer 's bright eye be take note of all those big , fat hickory-nuts and his mouth begin to water .
Without waste any more time he start up the tree to get some .
Happy Jack grow very angry , very angry indeed .
He hurry down to meet Chatterer the Red Squirrel and to prevent him climb the tree .
`` You keep out of this tree ; it 's mine ! ''
he shriek .
`` No such thing !
You do n't own the tree and I 've get just as much right here a you have ! ''
scream Chatterer , dodge around to the other side of the tree . ''
'T be , too , mine !
I find it first ! ''
shout Happy Jack .
`` You 're a thief , so there ! ''
`` I 'm not ! ''
`` You be ! ''
`` You 're a pig , Happy Jack !
You 're just a great big pig ! ''
`` I 'm not a pig !
I find these nut first and I tell you they 're mine ! ''
shriek Happy Jack , so angry that every time he speak he jerk his tail .
And all the time he be chase round and round the trunk of the tree try to prevent Chatterer get up .
Now Happy Jack be ever so much big than his cousin Chatterer but he be n't a spry .
So in spite of him Chatterer get past , and like a little red flash be up in the top of the tree where the big , fat nut be .
But he do n't have time to pick even one , for after him come Happy Jack so angry that Chatterer know that he would fare badly if Happy Jack should catch him .
Round and round , over and across , this way and that way , in the top of the tall hickory tree race Chatterer the Red Squirrel with his cousin , Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , right at his heel , and call him everything bad to be think of .
Yes , indeed it be truly dreadful , and Peter Rabbit , who happen along just then , put his hand over his ear so a not to hear such a dreadful quarrel .
-LSB- Illustration : PETER RABBIT , WHO HAPPENED ALONG JUST THEN , PUT HIS HANDS OVER HIS EARS . -RSB-
CHAPTER III STRIPED CHIPMUNK IS KEPT VERY BUSY I prefer big acorn but I never refuse little one .
They fit in between .
Happy Jack .
Striped Chipmunk be sit just inside a hollow log , study about how he could fill up his new storehouse for the winter .
Striped Chipmunk be very thrifty .
He like to play , and he be one of the merry of all the little people who live on the Green Meadows or in the Green Forest .
He live right on the edge of both and know everybody , and everybody know him .
Almost every morning the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind hurry over to have a frolic with him the very first thing .
But though he dearly love to play , he never let play interfere with work .
Whatever he do , be it play or work , he do with all his might .
`` I love the sun ; I love the rain ; I love to work ; I love to play .
Whatever it may bring to me I love each minute of each day . ''
So say Striped Chipmunk , a he sit in the hollow log and study how he could fill that splendid big new storehouse .
Pretty soon he prick up his funny little ear .
What be all that noise over in the Green Forest ?
Striped Chipmunk peep out of the hollow log .
Over in the top of a tall hickory tree a terrible fuss be go on .
Striped Chipmunk listen .
He hear angry voice , such angry voice !
They be the voice of his big cousin , Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel and Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
`` Dear me !
Dear me !
How those two do quarrel !
I must go over and see what it be all about , '' think Striped Chipmunk .
So , with a flirt of his funny , little tail , he scamper out of the hollow log and over to the tall hickory tree .
He know all about that tree .
Many , many time he have look up at the big fat nut in the top of it , watch them grow big and fatter , and hop that when they grow ripe , Old Mother West Wind would find time to shake them down to him .
You know Striped Chipmunk be not much of a climber , and so he can not go up and pick the nut a do his big cousin , Happy Jack and Chatterer .
When he reach the tall hickory tree , what do you think be happen ?
Why , those big , fat nut be rattle down to the ground on every side , just a if Old Mother West Wind be shake the tree as hard a she could .
But Old Mother West Wind be n't there at all .
No , Sir , there be n't even one of the Merry Little Breezes up in the tree-tops .
The big fat nut be rattle down just on account of the dreadful quarrel of Striped Chipmunk 's two foolish cousin , Happy Jack and Chatterer .
It be all because Happy Jack be greedy .
Chatterer have climb the tree , and now Happy Jack , who be big but not so spry , be chase Chatterer round and round and over the tree-top , and both be so angry that they do n't once notice that they be knock down the very nut over which they be quarrel .
Striped Chipmunk do n't stop to listen to the quarrel .
No , Sir-ee !
He stuff a big fat nut in each pocket in his cheek and scamper back to his splendid new storehouse a fast a his little legs would take him .
Back and forth , back and forth , scamper Striped Chipmunk , and all the time he be laugh inside and hop his big cousin would keep right on quarrel .
CHAPTER IV HAPPY JACK AND CHATTERER FEEL FOOLISH If you get and spend a penny , Then of course you have n't any .
Be like me -- a Happy Jack -- And put it where you 'll get it back .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack and Chatterer be out of breath .
Happy Jack be puff and blowing , for he be big and fat , and it be not so easy for him to race about in the tree-tops a it be for his small , slim , nimble cousin , Chatterer .
So Happy Jack be the first to stop .
He sit on a branch ` way up in the top of the tall hickory tree and glare across at Chatterer , who sit on a branch on the other side of the tall tree .
`` Could n't catch me , could you , smarty ? ''
taunt Chatterer .
`` You just wait until I do !
I 'll make you sorry you ever come near my hickory tree , '' snap Happy Jack .
`` I 'm wait .
Besides , it be n't your tree any more than it 's mine , '' reply Chatterer , and make a face at Happy Jack .
Happy Jack hop up a if he mean to begin the chase again , but he have a pain in his side from run so hard and so long , and so he sit down again .
Right down in his heart Happy Jack know that Chatterer be right , that the tree do n't belong to him any more than to his cousin .
But when he think of all those big , fat nut with which the tall hickory tree have be load , greedy thought chase out all thought of right and he say to himself again , a he have say when he first saw his cousin , that Chatterer should n't have one of them .
He stop scold long enough to steal a look at them , and then -- what do you think Happy Jack do ?
Why , he give such a jump of surprise that he nearly lose his balance .
Not a nut be to be see !
Happy Jack blink .
Then , he rub his eye and look again .
He could n't see a nut anywhere !
There be the husk in which the nut have grow big and fat until they be ripe , but now every husk be empty .
Chatterer saw the queer look on Happy Jack 's face , and he look too .
Now Chatterer the Red Squirrel have very quick wit , and he guess right away what have happen .
He know that while they have be quarrel and race over the top of the tall hickory tree , they must have knock down all the nut , which be just ready to fall anyway .
Like a little red flash , Chatterer start down the tree .
Then Happy Jack guess too , and down he start as fast a he could go , cry , `` Stop , thief ! ''
all the way .
When he reach the ground , there be Chatterer scurry around and poke under the fallen leave , but he have n't find a single nut .
Happy Jack could n't stop to quarrel any more , because you see he be afraid that Chatterer would find the big and fat nut , so he begin to scurry around and hunt too .
It be queer , very queer , how those nut could have hide so !
They hunt and hunt , but no nut be to be find .
Then they stop and star up at the top of the tall hickory tree .
Not a nut could they see .
Then they star at each other , and gradually a foolish , a very foolish look crept over each face .
`` Where -- where do you suppose they have go ? ''
ask Happy Jack in a queer-sounding voice .
Just then they hear some one laughing fit to kill himself .
It be Peter Rabbit .
`` Did you take our hickory nut ? ''
they both shout angrily .
`` No , '' reply Peter , `` no , I do n't take them , though they be not yours , anyway ! ''
And then he go off into another fit of laughter , for Peter have see Striped Chipmunk very hard at work take away those very nuts while his two big cousin have be quarrel in the tree-top .
CHAPTER V HAPPY JACK SUSPECTS STRIPED CHIPMUNK Thrift be one test of true loyalty to your country .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack do n't look happy a bit .
Indeed , Happy Jack look very unhappy .
You see , he look just a he felt .
He have set his heart on have all the big , fat nut that he have find in the top of that tall hickory tree , and now , instead of have all of them , he have n't any of them .
Worse still , he know right down in his heart that it be his own fault .
He have be too greedy .
But what have become of those nut ?
Happy Jack be study about this a he sit with his back against a big chestnut tree .
He remember how hard Peter Rabbit have laugh when Happy Jack and his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , have be so surprised because they could not find the nut they have knock down .
Peter have n't take them , for Peter have no use for them , but he must know what have become of them , for he be still laugh a he have go off down the Lone Little Path .
While he be think of all this , Happy Jack 's bright eye have be wide open , a they usually be , so that no danger should come near .
Suddenly they saw something move among the brown-and-yellow leaf on the ground .
Happy Jack look sharply , and then a sudden thought pop into his head .
`` Hi , there , Cousin Chipmunk ! ''
he shout .
`` Hi , there , your own self ! ''
reply Striped Chipmunk , for it be he .
`` What be you do down there ? ''
ask Happy Jack .
`` Looking for hickory nut , '' reply Striped Chipmunk , and his eye twinkle a he say it , for there be n't a hickory tree near .
Happy Jack look hard at Striped Chipmunk , for that sudden thought which have pop into his head when he first saw Striped Chipmunk be grow into a strong , a very strong , suspicion that Striped Chipmunk know something about those lost hickory nut .
But Striped Chipmunk look back at him so innocently that Happy Jack do n't know just what to think .
`` Have you begin to fill your storehouse for winter yet ? ''
inquire Happy Jack .
`` Of course I have .
I do n't mean to let Jack Frost catch me with an empty storehouse , '' reply Striped Chipmunk .
`` When leave turn yellow , brown , and red , And nut come pitter , patter down ; When day be short and swiftly speed , And Autumn wear her colored gown , I 'm up before old Mr. Sun His nightcap have a chance to doff , And have my day 's work well begin When others kick their bedclothes off . ''
`` What be you fill your storehouse with ? ''
ask Happy Jack , try not to show too much interest .
`` Corn , nice ripe yellow corn , and seed and acorn and chestnut , '' answer Striped Chipmunk .
`` And now I 'm look for some big , fat hickory nut , '' he add , and his bright eye twinkle .
`` Have you see any , Happy Jack ? ''
Happy Jack say that he have n't see any , and Striped Chipmunk remark that he could n't waste any more time talk , and scurry away .
Happy Jack watch him go , a puzzled little frown pucker up his brow .
`` I believe he know something about those nut .
I think I 'll follow him and have a peep into his storehouse , '' he mutter .
CHAPTER VI HAPPY JACK SPIES ON STRIPED CHIPMUNK It 's more important to mind your own affair than to know what your neighbor be do , but not nearly so interesting .
Happy Jack .
Striped Chipmunk be whisk about among the brown-and-yellow leaf that cover the ground on the edge of the Green Forest .
He be such a little fellow that he look almost like a brown leaf himself , and when one of Old Mother West Wind 's Merry Little Breezes whirl the brown leaf in a mad little dance around him , it be the hard work in the world to see Striped Chipmunk at all .
Anyway , Happy Jack Squirrel find it so .
You see , Happy Jack be spy on Striped Chipmunk .
Yes , Sir , Happy Jack be spy .
Spying , you know , be secretly watch other people and try to find out what they be do .
It be n't a nice thing to do , not a bit nice .
Happy Jack know it , and all the time he be do it , he be feel very much ashamed of himself .
But he say to himself that he just have to know where Striped Chipmunk 's storehouse be , because he just have to peep inside and find out if it hold any of the big , fat hickory nut that have disappear from under the tall hickory tree while he be quarrel up in the top of it with his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
But spy on Striped Chipmunk be n't the easy thing in the world .
Happy Jack be find it the hard work he have ever undertake .
Striped Chipmunk be so spry , and whisk about so , that you need eye all around your head to keep track of him .
Happy Jack find that his two eye , bright and quick a they be , could n't keep that little elf of a cousin of his always in sight .
Every few minute he would disappear and then bob up again in the most unexpected place and most provoking way .
`` Now I 'm here , and now I 'm there !
Now I be not anywhere !
Watch me now , for here I go Out of sight !
I tell you so ! ''
With the last word , Striped Chipmunk be nowhere to be see .
It seem a if the earth must have open and swallow him .
But it have n't , for two minute later Happy Jack saw him flirt his funny little tail in the saucy way a he scamper along an old log .
Happy Jack begin to suspect that Striped Chipmunk be just have fun with him .
What else could he mean by say such thing ?
And yet Happy Jack be sure that Striped Chipmunk have n't see him , for , all the time he be watch , Happy Jack have take the great care to keep hidden himself .
No , it could n't be , it just could n't be that Striped Chipmunk know that he be anywhere about .
He would just be patient a little long , and he would surely see that smart little cousin of his go to his storehouse .
So Happy Jack wait and watch .
CHAPTER VII STRIPED CHIPMUNK HAS FUN WITH HAPPY JACK Thrift be the meat in the nut of success .
Happy Jack .
Striped Chipmunk would shout in his shrill voice : `` Hipperty , hopperty , one , two , three !
What do you think becomes of me ? ''
Then he would vanish from sight all in the wink of an eye .
You could n't tell where he go to .
At least Happy Jack could n't , and his eye be sharp than yours or mine .
Happy Jack be spy , you remember .
He be watch Striped Chipmunk without let Striped Chipmunk know it .
At least he think he be .
But really he be n't .
Those sharp twinkling eye of Striped Chipmunk see everything .
You know , he be such a very little fellow that he have to be very wide-awake to keep out of danger .
And he be wide-awake .
Oh , my , yes , indeed !
When he be awake , and that be every minute of the daytime , he be the most wide-awake little fellow you ever do see .
He have see Happy Jack the very first thing , and he have guess right away that Happy Jack be spy on him so a to find out if he have any of the big , fat hickory nut .
Now Striped Chipmunk have all of those fat hickory nut safely hide in his splendid new storehouse , but he do n't intend to let Happy Jack know it .
So he just pretend not to see Happy Jack , or to know that he be anywhere near , but act a if he be just go about his own business .
Really he be just have the best time ever fool Happy Jack .
`` The corn be ripe ; the nut do fall ; Acorns be sweet and plump .
I soon will have my storehouse full Inside the hollow stump . ''
Striped Chipmunk sing this just a if no one be anywhere near , and he be sing just for joy .
Of course Happy Jack hear it and he grin .
`` So your storehouse be in a hollow stump , my smart little cousin ! ''
say Happy Jack to himself .
`` If that 's the case , I 'll soon find it . ''
Striped Chipmunk scurry along , and now he take pain to always keep in sight .
Happy Jack follow , hide behind the tree .
Pretty soon Striped Chipmunk pick up a plump acorn and put it in the pocket of his right cheek .
Then he pick up another and put that in the pocket in his left cheek .
Then he crowd another into each ; and his face be swell so that you would hardly have guess that it be Striped Chipmunk if you have chance to meet him .
My , my , he be a funny sight !
Happy Jack grin again a he watch , partly because Striped Chipmunk look so funny , and partly because he know that if Striped Chipmunk be go to eat the acorn right away , he would n't stuff them into the pocket in his cheek .
But he have do this very thing , and so he must be go to take them to his storehouse .
Off scamper Striped Chipmunk , and after him steal Happy Jack , his eye shin with excitement .
Pretty soon he saw an old stump which look a if it must be hollow .
Happy Jack grin more than ever a he carefully hide himself and watch .
Striped Chipmunk scramble up on the old stump , look this way and that way , a if to be sure that no one be watch him , then with a flirt of his funny little tail he dart into a little round doorway .
He be go a long time , but by and by out he pop , look this way and that way , and then scamper off in the direction from which he have come .
Happy Jack do n't try to follow him .
He wait until he be sure that Striped Chipmunk be out of sight and hearing , and then he walk over to the old stump .
`` It 's his storehouse fast enough , '' say Happy Jack .
CHAPTER VIII HAPPY JACK TURNS BURGLAR As tree from little acorn , so Great sum from little penny grow .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack Squirrel stand in front of the old stump into which he have see Striped Chipmunk go with the pocket in his cheek full of acorn , and out of which he have come with the pocket of his cheek quite empty .
`` It certainly be his storehouse , and now I 'll find out if he be the one who get all those big , fat hickory nut , '' mutter Happy Jack .
First he look this way , and then he look that way , to be sure that no one saw him , for what he be plan to do be a very dreadful thing , and he know it .
Happy Jack be go to turn burglar .
A burglar , you know , be one who break into another 's house or barn to steal , which be a very , very dreadful thing to do .
Yet this be just what Happy Jack Squirrel be plan to do .
He be go to get into that old stump , and if those big , fat hickory nut be there , a he be sure they be , he be go to take them .
He try very hard to make himself believe that it would n't be steal .
He have watch those nut in the top of the tall hickory tree so long that he have grow to think that they belong to him .
Of course they do n't , but he have make himself think they do .
Happy Jack walk all around the old stump , and then he climb up on top of it .
There be only one doorway , and that be the little round hole through which Striped Chipmunk have enter and then come out .
It be too small for Happy Jack to even get his head through , though his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , who be much small , could have slip in easily .
Happy Jack sniffed and sniffed .
He could smell nut and corn and other good thing .
My , how good they do smell !
His eye shine greedily .
Happy Jack take one more hasty look around to see that no one be watch , then with his long sharp teeth he begin to make the doorway large .
The wood be tough , but Happy Jack work with might and main , for he want to get those nut and get away before Striped Chipmunk should return , or any one else should happen along and see him .
Soon the hole be big enough for him to get his head inside .
It be a storehouse , sure enough .
Happy Jack work hard than ever , and soon the hole be large enough for him to get wholly inside .
What a sight !
There be corn !
and there be chestnut and acorn !
and there be a few hickory nut , though these do not look so big and fat a the one Happy Jack be look for !
Happy Jack chuckle to himself , a wicked , greedy chuckle , a he look .
And then something happen .
`` Oh !
Oh !
Stop it !
Leave me alone ! ''
yell Happy Jack .
CHAPTER IX HAPPY JACK SQUIRREL 'S SAD MISTAKE A Squirrel always be thrifty .
Be as wise a a Squirrel .
Happy Jack .
`` Let me go !
Let me go ! ''
yell Happy Jack , a he back out of the hollow stump faster than he have go in , a great deal faster .
Can you guess why ?
I 'll tell you .
It be because he be be pull out .
Yes , Sir , Happy Jack Squirrel be be pull out by his big , bushy tail .
Happy Jack be more frightened than hurt .
To be sure , it be not at all comfortable to have one 's tail pull , but Happy Jack would n't have mind this so much have it not be so unexpected , or if he could have see who be pull it .
And then , right inside Happy Jack do n't feel a bit good .
Why ?
Well , because he be do a dreadful thing , and he know that it be a dreadful thing .
He have break into somebody 's storehouse to steal .
He be sure that it be Striped Chipmunk 's storehouse , and he would n't admit to himself that he be go to steal , actually steal .
But all the time , right down deep in his heart , he know that if he take any of those hickory nut it would be steal .
But Happy Jack have be careless .
When he have make the doorway big enough for him to crawl inside , he have leave his tail hanging outside .
Some one have very , very softly steal up and grab it and begin to pull .
It be so sudden and unexpected that Happy Jack yell with fright .
When he could get his wit together , he think of course Striped Chipmunk have come back and be pull his tail .
When he think that , he get over his fright right away , for Striped Chipmunk be such a little fellow that Happy Jack know that he have nothing ; to fear from him .
So as fast a he could , Happy Jack back out of the hole and whirl around .
Of course he expect to face a very angry little Chipmunk .
But he do n't .
No , Sir , he do n't .
Instead , he look right into the angry face of his other cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
And Chatterer be angry !
Oh my , my , how angry Chatterer be !
For a minute he could n't find his voice , because his anger fairly choke him .
And when he do , how his tongue do fly !
`` You thief !
You robber !
What be you do in my storehouse ? ''
he shriek .
Happy Jack back away hurriedly , for though he be much big than Chatterer , he have a very wholesome respect for Chatterer 's sharp teeth , and when he be very angry , Chatterer be a great fighter .
`` I -- I do n't know it be your storehouse , '' say Happy Jack , back away still far .
`` It do n't make any difference if you do n't ; you 're a thief just the same ! ''
scream Chatterer and rush at Happy Jack .
And what do you think Happy Jack do ?
Why , he just turn tail and run , Chatterer after him , cry `` Thief !
Robber !
Coward ! ''
at the top of his lung , so that every one in the Green Forest could hear .
CHAPTER X STRIPED CHIPMUNK 'S HAPPY THOUGHT Waste seem to me a dreadful sin ; It work to lose and not to win .
Thrift will win ; it can not lose .
Between them 't be for you to choose .
Happy Jack .
Striped Chipmunk sit on a mossy old log , laugh until his side ache .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Ho , ho , ho !
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
Ho , ho , ho , ho , ho ! ''
laugh Striped Chipmunk , hold his side .
Over in the Green Forest he could still hear Chatterer the Red Squirrel cry `` Thief !
Robber ! ''
a he chase his big cousin , Happy Jack , and every time he hear it , Striped Chipmunk laugh harder .
You see , Striped Chipmunk have know all the time that Happy Jack be spy on him , and he have have no end of fun fool Happy Jack by suddenly disappear and then bob into view .
He have know that Happy Jack be follow him so a to find out where his storehouse be .
Then Striped Chipmunk have remember the storehouse of Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
He have fill the pocket in his cheek with acorn and go straight over to Chatterer 's storehouse and put them inside , know that Happy Jack would follow him and would think that that be his storehouse .
And that be just what happen .
Then Striped Chipmunk have hide himself where he could see all that happen .
He have see Happy Jack look all around , to make sure that no one be near , and then tear open the little round doorway of Chatterer 's storehouse until it be big enough for him to squeeze through .
He have see Chatterer come up , fly into a rage , and pull Happy Jack out by the tail .
Indeed , he have have to clap both hand over his mouth to keep from laugh out loud .
Then Happy Jack have turn tail and run away with Chatterer after him , shout `` Thief '' and `` Robber '' at the top of his voice , and this have tickle Striped Chipmunk still more , for he know that Chatterer himself be one of the great thief in the Green Forest .
So he sit on the mossy old log and laugh and laugh and laugh .
Finally Striped Chipmunk wipe the tear from his eye and jump up .
`` My , my , this will never do ! ''
say he .
`` Idle hand and idle foot Never fill a storehouse yet ; But instead , so I 've hear say , Into mischief surely get . ''
`` Here it be almost Thanksgiving and -- '' Striped Chipmunk stop and scratch his head , while a funny little pleased look creep into his face .
`` I wonder if Happy Jack and Chatterer would come to a Thanksgiving dinner , '' he mutter .
`` I believe I 'll ask them just for fun . ''
Then Striped Chipmunk hurry home full of his new idea and chuckle a he plan his Thanksgiving dinner .
Of course he could n't have it at his own house .
That would n't do at all .
In the first place , the doorway would be altogether too small for Happy Jack .
Anyway , his home be a secret , his very own secret , and he do n't propose to let Happy Jack and Chatterer know where it be , even for a Thanksgiving dinner .
Then he think of the big , smooth , mossy log he have be sit on that very morning .
`` The very place ! ''
cry Striped Chipmunk , and scurry away to find Happy Jack Squirrel and Chatterer the Red Squirrel to invite them to his Thanksgiving dinner .
CHAPTER XI STRIPED CHIPMUNK 'S THANKSGIVING DINNER There 's nothing quite so sweet in life As make up and end strife .
Happy Jack .
Striped Chipmunk jump out of bed very early Thanksgiving morning .
It be go to be a very busy day .
He have invite Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , and Chatterer the Red Squirrel , to eat Thanksgiving dinner with him , and each have promise to be there .
Striped Chipmunk chuckle a he think how neither of his guest know that the other be to be there .
He wash his face and hand , brush his hair , and eat his breakfast .
Then he scurry over to his splendid new storehouse , which no one knew of but himself , and stuff the pocket in his cheek with good thing to eat .
When he could n't stuff another thing in , he scurry over to the nice , mossy log on the edge of the Green Forest , and there he empty his pocket , for that be to be his din table .
Back and forth , back and forth between his secret storehouse and the smooth , mossy log hurry Striped Chipmunk .
He know that Happy Jack and the Chatterer have great appetite , and he want to be sure that there be plenty of good thing to eat .
And a he scurry along , he sing a little song .
`` Thanksgiving come but once a year , But when it come it bring good cheer .
For in my storehouse on this day Are pile of good thing hide away .
Each day I 've work from early morn To gather acorn , nut , and corn , Till now I 've plenty and to spare Without a worry or a care .
So light of heart the whole day long , I 'll sing a glad Thanksgiving song . ''
Promptly at the dinner hour Happy Jack appear come from one direction , and Chatterer the Red Squirrel come from another direction .
They do n't see each other until just a they reach Striped Chipmunk 's smooth , mossy log .
Then they stop and scowl .
Striped Chipmunk pretend not to notice anything wrong and bustle about , talk all the time a if his guest be the best of friend .
On the smooth , mossy log be a great pile of shin yellow corn .
There be another pile of plump ripe acorn , and three little pile of dainty look brown seed .
But the thing that Happy Jack could n't keep his eye off be right in the middle .
It be a huge pile of big , fat hickory nut .
Now who could remain ill-tempered and cross with such a lot of goody spread before him ?
Certainly not Happy Jack or his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
They just have to smile in spite of themselves , and when Striped Chipmunk urge them to sit down and help themselves , they do .
In three minute they be so busy eat that they have forget all about their quarrel and be laugh and chat like the best of friend .
`` It 's quite a family party , be n't it ? ''
say Striped Chipmunk , for you know they be all cousin .
Whitefoot the Wood Mouse happen along , and Striped Chipmunk insist that he should join the party .
Later Sammy Jay come along , and nothing would excuse him from share in the feast , too .
When everybody have eat and eat until they could n't hold another thing , and it be time to think of go home , Striped Chipmunk insist that Happy Jack and Chatterer should divide between them the big , fat hickory nut that be leave , and they do without once quarrel about it .
`` Thanksgiving come but once a year , And when it come it bring good cheer , '' say Striped Chipmunk to himself a he watch his guest depart .
CHAPTER XII HAPPY JACK DOES SOME THINKING To call another a thief do n't make him one .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack sit up in a chestnut tree , and his face be very sober .
The fact be , Happy Jack be do some very hard thinking .
This be so very unusual for him that Sammy Jay stop to ask if he be sick .
You see he be naturally a happy-go-lucky little scamp , and that be one reason that he be call Happy Jack .
But this morning he be think and think hard , so hard , in fact , that he almost lose his temper when Sammy Jay interrupt his thought with such a foolish question .
What be he think about ?
Can you not guess ?
Why , he be think about those big , fat hickory nut that Striped Chipmunk have have for his Thanksgiving dinner , and how Striped Chipmunk have give him some of them to bring home .
He be very sure that they be the very same nut that he have watch grow big and fat in the top of the tall hickory tree and then have knock down while chase his cousin , Chatterer .
When they have reach the ground and find the nut go , Happy Jack have at once suspect that Striped Chipmunk have take them , and now he felt sure about it .
But all at once thing look very different to Happy Jack , and the more he think about how he have act , the more ashamed of himself he grow .
`` There certainly must have be enough of those nut for all of u , and if I have n't be so greedy we might all have have a share .
As it be , I 've get only those that Striped Chipmunk give me , and Chatterer have only those that Striped Chipmunk give him .
It must be that that sharp little cousin of mine with the striped coat have get the rest , and I guess he deserve them . ''
Then all of a sudden Happy Jack realize how Striped Chipmunk have fool him into think that the storehouse of Chatterer be his storehouse , and Happy Jack begin to laugh .
The more he think of it , the harder he laugh .
`` The joke certainly be on me ! ''
he exclaim .
`` The joke certainly be on me , and it serve me right .
Hereafter I 'll mind my own business .
If I have spend half a much time look for hickory nut a I do look for Striped Chipmunk 's storehouse , I would be ready for winter now , and Chatterer could n't call me a thief . ''
Then he laugh again a he think how Striped Chipmunk must have enjoy see him pull out of Chatterer 's storehouse by the tail .
`` What 's the joke ? ''
ask Bobby Coon , who happen along just then .
`` I 've just learn a lesson , '' reply Happy Jack .
`` What be it ? ''
ask Bobby .
Happy Jack grin a he answer : `` I 've find that greed will never , never pay .
It make one cross and ugly , and it drive one 's friends away .
And be always selfish and always want more , One 's very apt to lose the thing that one have have before . ''
`` Pooh ! ''
say Bobby Coon .
`` Have you just find that out ?
I learn that a long time ago . ''
CHAPTER XIII HAPPY JACK GETS A WARNING It matter not how smart you be , So be it you be heedless too .
It be n't what you know that count So much a what it be to you .
Happy Jack .
A fat Gray Squirrel be very tempting to a number of people in the Green Forest , particularly in winter , when get a living be hard work .
Almost every day Reddy and Granny Fox steal softly through that part of the Green Forest where Happy Jack Squirrel live , hop to surprise and catch him on the ground .
But they never do .
Roughleg the Hawk and Hooty the Owl waste a great deal of time , sit around near Happy Jack 's home , hop to catch him when he be not watching , but they never do .
Happy Jack know all about these big hungry neighbor , and he be always on the watch for them .
He know their way and just where they would be likely to hide .
He take the great care to look into every such hiding place near at hand before he venture down out of the tree , and because these hungry neighbor be so big , he never have any trouble in see them if they happen to be around .
So Happy Jack do n't do much worry about them .
The fact be , Happy Jack be n't afraid of them at all , for the simple reason that he know they could n't follow him into his hollow tree .
Having nut store away , he would have be perfectly happy but for one thing .
Yes , Sir , there be only one thing to spoil Happy Jack 's complete happiness , and that be the fear that Shadow the Weasel might take it into his head to pay him a visit .
Shadow can go through a small hole than Happy Jack can , and so Happy Jack know that while he be wholly safe from his other enemy , he be n't safe at all from Shadow the Weasel .
And this worry him .
Yes , Sir , it worry Happy Jack .
He have n't see or hear of Shadow for a long time , but he have a feeling that he be likely to turn up almost any time , especially now that everything be cover with snow and ice , and food be scarce and hard to get .
He sometimes actually wish that he be n't as fat a he be .
Then he would be less tempt to his hungry neighbor .
But no good come of worry .
No , Sir , not a bit of good come of worrying , and Happy Jack know it .
`` All I can do be to watch out and not be careless , '' say he , and drop the shell of a nut on the head of Reddy Fox , who happen to be pass under the tree in which Happy Jack be sit .
Reddy look up and show his teeth angrily .
Happy Jack laugh and scamper away through the tree-tops to another part of the Green Forest where he have some very secret store of nut .
He be go most of the day , and when he start back home he be in the best of spirit , for his store have not be find by any one else .
He be in such good spirit that for once he quite forget Shadow the Weasel .
He be just go to pop into his doorway without first look inside , a very foolish thing to do , when he hear some one call him .
He turn to see Tommy Tit the Chickadee hurrying towards him , and it be very clear that Tommy be greatly excite .
`` Hello , Tommy Tit !
What ail you ? ''
exclaim Happy Jack .
`` Do n't go in there , Happy Jack ! ''
cry Tommy Tit .
`` Shadow the Weasel be in there wait for you ! ''
Happy Jack turn quite pale .
`` Are you sure ? ''
he gasp .
Tommy Tit nod a if he would nod his head off .
`` I saw him go in , and he have n't come out , for I 've keep watch , '' say he .
`` You better get away from here before he know you be about . ''
That be good advice , but it be too late .
Even a Tommy Tit speak , a sharp face with red , angry eye be thrust out of Happy Jack 's doorway .
It be the face of Shadow the Weasel .
CHAPTER XIV .
HAPPY JACK 'S RUN FOR LIFE A coward he who run away When he should stay and fight , But wise be he who know when he Should run with all his might .
Happy Jack .
It be n't cowardly to run away when it be quite useless to stay and fight .
So it be n't so cowardly of Happy Jack Squirrel to turn tail and run the instant he catch sight of Shadow the Weasel .
No , Sir , it be n't cowardly at all , although it might have look so to you have you be there to see , for Happy Jack be big than Shadow .
But when it come to a fight , Happy Jack be no match at all for Shadow the Weasel , and he know it .
Shadow be too quick for him , and though Happy Jack be ever so brave , he would have no chance at all in a fight with Shadow .
And so the very instant he saw the cruel face of Shadow with it fierce red eye glare at him from his own doorway , Happy Jack turn tail and ran .
Yes , Sir , that be just what he do , and it be the wise thing he could have do .
He hop with a mighty hope that Shadow would not follow him , but he hop in vain .
Shadow have make up his mind to dine on Squirrel , and he do n't propose to see his dinner run away without try to catch it .
So the instant Happy Jack start , Shadow start after him , stop only long enough to snarl an ugly threat at Tommy Tit the Chickadee , because Tommy have warn Happy Jack that Shadow be wait for him .
But Tommy do n't mind that threat .
Oh , my , no !
Tommy do n't mind it at all .
He can fly , and so he have no fear of Shadow the Weasel .
But he be terribly afraid for Happy Jack .
He know , just a Happy Jack knew , that there be n't a single place where Happy Jack could hide into which Shadow could not follow him .
So Tommy flit from tree to tree behind Happy Jack , hop that in some way he might be able to help him .
From tree to tree race Happy Jack , make desperately long leap .
Shadow the Weasel follow , and though he run swiftly , he do n't appear to be hurry , and he take no chance on those long leap .
If the leap be too long to take safely , Shadow simply run back down the tree , across to the next one and up that .
It do n't worry him at all that Happy Jack be so far ahead that he be out of sight .
He know that he could trust his nose to follow the scent of Happy Jack .
In fact , it rather please him to have Happy Jack race away in such fright , for in that way he would soon tire himself out .
And this be just what Happy Jack do do .
He run and jump and jump and run as fast a he could until he be so out of breath that he just have to stop for a rest .
But he could n't rest much .
He be too terribly frighten .
He shiver and shook while he get his breath , and never for a second do he take his eye from his back trail .
Presently he saw a slim white form darting along the snow straight towards the tree in which he be rest .
Once more Happy Jack ran , and somehow he felt terribly helpless and hopeless .
He have to rest oftener now , and each rest be short than the one before , because , you know , Shadow be a less and less distance behind .
Poor Happy Jack !
He have try every trick he know , and not one of them have fool Shadow the Weasel .
Now he be too tired to run much far .
The last little bit of hope leave Happy Jack 's heart .
He blink his eye very fast to keep back the tear , a he think that this be probably the last time he would ever look at the beautiful Green Forest he love so .
Then he grit his teeth and make up his mind that anyway he would fight his best , even if it be hopeless .
It be just at that very minute that he hear the voice of Tommy Tit the Chickadee call to him in great excitement , and somehow , he do n't know why , a wee bit of hope spring up in his heart .
CHAPTER XV WHO SAVED HAPPY JACK SQUIRREL ?
Blessed he whose word of cheer Help put hope in place of fear .
Happy Jack .
It never have be fully decide among the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows just who really do save Happy Jack Squirrel .
Some say that Tommy Tit the Chickadee deserve all the credit , and some say that -- but wait .
Let me tell you just what happen , and then perhaps you can decide for yourself who save Happy Jack .
You see , it be this way : Happy Jack have run and run and run and try every trick he know to get away from Shadow the Weasel , but all in vain .
At last he be so out of breath and so tire that he felt that he could n't run any more .
He have just make up his mind that he would wait right where he be for Shadow and then put up the best fight he could , even if it be hopeless , when he hear Tommy Tit call to him in great excitement .
-LSB- Illustration : HAPPY JACK TRIED EVERY TRICK HE KNEW TO GET AWAY FROM SHADOW THE WEASEL . -RSB-
`` Dee , dee , chickadee !
Come here quick , Happy Jack !
Come here quick ! ''
call Tommy Tit .
A wee bit of hope spring up in Happy Jack 's heart .
He could n't imagine what possible help Tommy Tit could be , but he would go see .
So take a long breath he start on a fast a he could in the direction of Tommy 's voice .
He could n't run very fast , because , you know , he be so tired , but he do the best he could .
Presently he saw Tommy just ahead of him fly about in great excitement .
`` Dee , dee , dee , there he be !
Go to him !
Go to him , Happy Jack !
Hurry !
Hurry !
Dee , dee , dee , oh , do hurry ! ''
cry Tommy Tit .
For just a second Happy Jack do n't know what he mean .
Then he saw Farmer Brown 's boy watching Tommy Tit a if he do n't know what to make of the little fellow 's excitement .
`` Go to him !
Go to him ! ''
call Tommy .
`` He wo n't hurt you , and he wo n't let Shadow the Weasel hurt you !
See me !
See me !
Dee , dee , see me ! ''
And with that Tommy Tit fly right down on Farmer Brown 's boy 's hand , for you know he and Farmer Brown 's boy be great friend .
Happy Jack hesitate .
He know that Farmer Brown 's boy have try to make friend with him , and every day since the ice and snow have come have put out nut and corn for him , but he could n't quite forget the old fear of him .
He could n't quite trust him .
So now he hesitate .
Then he look back .
Shadow the Weasel be only a few jump behind him , and his little eye glow red and savage .
Farmer Brown 's boy might not hurt him , but Shadow certainly would .
Shadow would kill him .
Happy Jack make up his mind , and with a little gasp race madly across the snow straight to Farmer Brown 's boy and ran right up to his shoulder .
Shadow the Weasel have be so intent on catch Happy Jack that he have n't notice Farmer Brown 's boy at all .
Now he saw him for the first time and stop short , snarl and spit .
Whatever else you may say of Shadow the Weasel , he be no coward .
For a minute it look a if he really mean to follow Happy Jack and get him in spite of Farmer Brown 's boy , and Happy Jack tremble a he look down into those angry little red eye .
But Shadow know when he be well off , and now he know good than to come a step nearer .
So he snarl and spit , and then , a Farmer Brown 's boy take a step forward , leap to one side and disappear in the old stone wall .
Very gently and softly Farmer Brown 's boy talk to Happy Jack a he take him to the near tree .
Then , when Happy Jack be safely up in the tree , he go over to the stone wall and try to drive Shadow the Weasel out .
He pull over the stone until at last Shadow jump out , and then Farmer Brown 's boy chase him clear into the Green Forest .
`` Dee , dee , dee , what do I tell you ? ''
cry Tommy Tit happily , a he fly over to where Happy Jack be sit .
Now who really save Happy Jack -- Tommy Tit or Farmer Brown 's boy ?
CHAPTER XVI HAPPY JACK MISSES FARMER BROWN 'S BOY One and one be always two , And two and two be four .
And just a true it be you 'll find That love and love make more .
Happy Jack .
Go ask Happy Jack Squirrel .
He know .
He know because he have prove it .
It begin when Farmer Brown 's boy save him from Shadow the Weasel .
Perhaps I should say when Farmer Brown 's boy and Tommy Tit save him , for if it have n't be for Tommy , it never would have enter Happy Jack 's head to run to Farmer Brown 's boy .
After that , of course , Happy Jack and Farmer Brown 's boy become great friend .
Farmer Brown 's boy come over to the Green Forest every day to see Happy Jack , and always he have the most delicious nut in his pocket .
At first Happy Jack have be a wee bit shy .
He could n't quite get over that old fear he have have so long .
Then he would remember how Farmer Brown 's boy have save him , and that would make him ashamed , and he would walk right up and take the nut .
Farmer Brown 's boy would talk to him in the nice way and tell him that he love him , and that there be n't the least thing in the world to be afraid of .
Pretty soon Happy Jack begin to love Farmer Brown 's boy a little .
He could n't help it .
He just have to love any one who be so kind and gentle to him .
Now as soon a he begin to love a little , and felt sure in his own heart that Farmer Brown 's boy love him a little , he find that love and love make more love , and it be n't any time at all before he have become very fond of Farmer Brown 's boy , so fond of him that he be almost jealous of Tommy Tit , who have be a friend of Farmer Brown 's boy for a long time .
It get so that Happy Jack look forward each day to the visit of Farmer Brown 's boy , and as soon a he hear his whistle , he would hasten to meet him .
Some folk be unkind enough to say that it be just because of the nut and corn he be sure to find in Farmer Brown 's boy 's pocket , but that be n't so at all .
At last there come a day when he miss that cheery whistle .
He wait and wait .
At last he go clear to the edge of the Green Forest , but there be no whistle and no sign of Farmer Brown 's boy .
It be the same way the next day and the next .
Happy Jack forgot to frisk about the way he usually do .
He lose his appetite .
He just sit around and mop .
When Tommy Tit the Chickadee come to call , a he do every day , Happy Jack find that Tommy be anxious too .
Tommy have be up to Farmer Brown 's dooryard several time , and he have n't see anything of Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` I think he must have go away , '' say Tommy .
`` He would have come down here first and say good-by , '' reply Happy Jack .
`` You -- you do n't suppose something have happen to him , do you ? ''
ask Tommy .
`` I do n't know .
I do n't know what to think , '' reply Happy Jack , soberly .
`` Do you know , Tommy , I 've grow very fond of Farmer Brown 's boy . ''
`` Of course .
Dee , dee , dee , of course .
Everybody who really know him be fond of him .
I 've say all along that he be the best friend we 've get , but no one seem to believe me .
I 'm glad you 've find it out for yourself .
I tell you what , I 'll go up to his house and have another look around . ''
And without wait for a reply , Tommy be off as fast a his little wing could take him .
`` I hope , I do hope , that nothing have happen to him , '' mumble Happy Jack , a he pretend to hunt for bury nut while he wait for Tommy Tit to come back , and by `` him '' he mean Farmer Brown 's boy .
CHAPTER XVII TOMMY TIT BRINGS NEWS No one know too much , but many know too little .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack very plainly be not happy .
His name be the only happy thing about him .
He fuss about on the edge of the Green Forest .
He just could n't keep still .
When he think anybody be look , he pretend to hunt for some of the nut he have bury in the fall , and dug hole down through the snow .
But as soon a he think that no one be watch , he would scamper up a tree where he could look over to Farmer Brown 's house and look and look .
It be very clear that Happy Jack be watch for some one and that he be anxious , very anxious , indeed .
It be get late in the afternoon , and soon the Black Shadows would begin to creep out from the Purple Hills , behind which jolly , round , red Mr. Sun would go to bed .
It would be bedtime for Happy Jack then , for you know he go to bed very early , just as soon a it begin to get dark .
The later it get , the more anxious and uneasy Happy Jack grow .
He have just make up his mind that in a few minute he would have to give up and go to bed when there be a flit of tiny wing , and Tommy Tit the Chickadee drop into the tree beside him .
`` Did you find out anything ? ''
ask Happy Jack eagerly , before Tommy have a chance to say a word .
-LSB- Illustration : `` DID YOU FIND OUT ANYTHING ? ''
ASKED HAPPY JACK EAGERLY . -RSB-
Tommy nod .
`` He 's there ! ''
he pant , for he be quite out of breath from hurry so .
`` Where ? ''
Happy Jack fairly shout the question .
`` Over there in the house , '' reply Tommy Tit .
`` Then he have n't go away !
It 's just a I say , he have n't go away ! ''
cry Happy Jack , and he be so relieved that he jump up and down and a a result nearly tumble out of the tree .
`` No , '' reply Tommy , `` he have n't go away , but I think there be something the matter with him . ''
Happy Jack grow very sober .
`` What make you think so ? ''
he demand .
`` If you 'll give me time to get my breath , I 'll tell you all about it , '' retort Tommy Tit .
`` All right , only please hurry , '' reply Happy Jack , and try to look patient even if he be n't .
Tommy Tit smooth out some rumpled feather and be most provokingly slow about it .
`` When I leave here , '' he begin at last , `` I fly straight up to Farmer Brown 's house , a I say I would .
I fly all around it , but all I saw be that horrid Black Pussy on the back doorstep , and she look at me so hungrily that she make me dreadfully uncomfortable .
I do n't see what Farmer Brown keep her about for , anyway . ''
`` Never mind her ; go on ! ''
interrupt Happy Jack .
`` Then I fly all around the barn , but I do n't see any one there but that ugly little upstart , Bully the English Sparrow , and he want to pick a fight with me right away . ''
Tommy look very indignant .
`` Never mind him , go on ! ''
cry Happy Jack impatiently .
`` After that I fly back to the big maple tree close by the house , '' continue Tommy .
`` You know Farmer Brown 's boy have keep a piece of suet tie in that tree all winter for me .
I be hungry , and I think I would get a bite to eat , but there be n't any suet there .
That pig of a Sammy Jay have manage to get it untied and have carry it all away .
Of course that make me angry , and twice as hungry a before .
I be try to make up my mind what to do next when I happen to look over on the window sill , and what do you think I saw there ? ''
`` What ? ''
demand Happy Jack eagerly .
`` A lot of cracked hickory nut ! ''
declare Tommy .
`` I just know that they be mean for me , and when I be sure that the way be clear , I fly over there .
They taste so good that I almost forget about Farmer Brown 's boy , when I just happen to look in the window .
You know those window be make of some queer stuff that look like ice and be n't , and that you can see right through . ''
Happy Jack do n't know , for he never have be near enough to see , but he nod , and Tommy Tit go on .
`` There be many queer thing inside , and I be wonder what they could be when all of a sudden I saw him .
He be lie down , and there be something the matter with him .
I tap on the window to him and then I hurry back here . ''
CHAPTER XVIII HAPPY JACK DECIDES TO MAKE A CALL You 'll find when all be say and do Two head be well far than one .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack Squirrel have n't slept very well .
He have have bad dream .
Ever so many time in the night he have wake up , a very unusual thing for Happy Jack .
The fact be , he have something on his mind .
Yes , Sir , Happy Jack have something on his mind , and that something be Farmer Brown 's boy .
He often have have Farmer Brown 's boy on his mind before , but in a very different way .
Then it have be in the day when Farmer Brown 's boy hunt through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows with his terrible gun .
Then everybody have Farmer Brown 's boy on their mind most of the time .
Happy Jack have hat him then , hat him because he have fear him .
You know fear almost always lead to hate .
But now it be different .
Farmer Brown 's boy have put away his terrible gun .
Happy Jack no longer fear him .
Love have take the place of hate in his heart , for have not Farmer Brown 's boy save him from Shadow the Weasel , and bring him nut and corn when food be scarce ?
And now Tommy Tit have bring word that some thing be the matter with Farmer Brown 's boy .
It be this that be on Happy Jack 's mind and have give him such a bad night .
As soon a it be daylight , Happy Jack scramble out of bed to look for Tommy Tit .
He do n't have long to wait , for Tommy be quite as early a riser a Happy Jack .
`` Dee , dee , chickadee !
I hope you feel as well a me ! ''
sang Tommy merrily , a he flit over to where Happy Jack be look for his breakfast .
The very sound of Tommy 's voice make Happy Jack feel well .
One must feel very badly indeed not to be a little more cheerful when Tommy Tit be about .
The fact be , Tommy Tit pack about so much good cheer in that small person of his , that no one can be downhearted when he be about .
`` Hello , Tommy , '' say Happy Jack .
`` If I could make other people feel as good a you do , do you know what I would do ? ''
`` What ? ''
ask Tommy .
`` I 'd go straight up to Farmer Brown 's house and try to cheer up Farmer Brown 's boy , '' reply Happy Jack .
`` That 's the very thing I have in mind , '' chuckle Tommy .
`` I 've come over here to see if you wo n't come along with me .
I 've be up to his house so often that he wo n't think half so much of a visit from me a he will from you .
Will you do it ? ''
Happy Jack look a little startled .
You see , he never have be over to Farmer Brown 's house , and somehow he could n't get over the idea that it would be a very dangerous thing to do .
`` I -- I -- do you really suppose I could ? ''
he ask .
`` I 'm sure of it , '' reply Tommy Tit .
`` There 's no one to be afraid of but Black Pussy and Bowser the Hound , and it 's easy enough to keep out of their way .
You can hide in the old stone wall until the way be clear and then run across to the big maple tree close to the house .
Then you can look right in and see Farmer Brown 's boy , and he can look out and see you .
Will you do it ? ''
Happy Jack think very hard for a few minute .
Then he make up his mind .
`` I 'll do it ! ''
say he in a very decided tone of voice .
`` Let 's start right away . ''
`` Good for you !
Dee , dee , good for you ! ''
cry Tommy Tit , and start to lead the way .
CHAPTER XIX TOMMY TIT AND HAPPY JACK PAY A VISIT As grow the mighty elm tree , From just a tiny seed , So often great thing happen From just a kindly deed .
Happy Jack .
Great thing be happen to Happy Jack Squirrel .
He be actually on his way to Farmer Brown 's house , and he have a feeling that other thing be likely to happen when he get there .
Now you may not think that it be anything very great that Happy Jack should be on his way to Farmer Brown 's house .
Very likely you be say , `` Pooh !
that 's nothing ! ''
This may be true , and then again it may not .
Suppose you do a little supposing .
Suppose you have all your life be terribly afraid of a great giant fifty time big than you .
Suppose that great giant have stop hunt you and by little deed of kindness have at last win your love .
Suppose you learn that something be the matter with him , and you make up your mind to visit him at his great castle where there be other great giant whom you do not know .
Would n't you think that great thing be happen to you ?
Well , that be exactly the way it be with Happy Jack Squirrel , a he and Tommy Tit the Chickadee start to go over to Farmer Brown 's house to look for Farmer Brown 's boy .
Tommy Tit have be there often , so he do n't think anything about it , but Happy Jack never have be there , and if the truth be know , his heart be go pitapat , pitapat , with excitement and perhaps just a little fear .
Through the Old Orchard they go , Tommy Tit flit ahead and keep a sharp watch for danger .
When they reach the old stone wall on the edge of Farmer Brown 's dooryard , Tommy tell Happy Jack to hide there while he go to see if the way be clear .
He be back in a few minute .
`` Dee , dee , everything be all right , '' say he .
`` Bowser the Hound be eat ; his breakfast out back where he ca n't see you at all , and Black Pussy be nowhere about .
All you have to do be to follow me over to that big tree close to the house , and I will show you where Farmer Brown 's boy be . ''
`` I -- I 'm afraid , '' confess Happy Jack .
`` Pooh !
There 's nothing to be afraid of , '' assert Tommy Tit in the most positive way .
`` Do n't be a coward .
Remember how Farmer Brown 's boy save you from Shadow the Weasel .
Come on !
Dee , dee , dee , come on ! ''
With that Tommy fly across to the tree close by the house .
Happy Jack scramble up on the old stone wall and look this way and look that way .
He could n't see a thing to be afraid of .
He jump down and run a few step .
Then his heart fail , and he scamper back to the old stone wall in a panic .
After a few minute he try again , and once more a foolish fear send him back .
The third time he grit his teeth , say to himself over and over , `` I will !
I will !
I will ! ''
and ran with all his might .
In no time at all he be across the dooryard and up in the big tree , his heart pound with excitement .
`` Dee , dee , dee , '' call Tommy Tit .
Happy Jack look over to the house , and there sat Tommy on a window-sill , help himself to the most delicious-looking cracked nut .
The sight of them make Happy Jack 's mouth water .
A long branch hang down over the window and almost touch the sill .
Happy Jack venture half way and stop .
Somehow it seem very dangerous to go so close to that window .
`` Come on !
Come on !
What be you afraid of ? ''
call Tommy .
Something like shame that such a little fellow a Tommy Tit should dare to go where he do not , creep into Happy Jack 's heart .
With a quick little run and jump he be on the sill , and a second later he be star in at all the strange thing inside .
At first he do n't see anything of Farmer Brown 's boy , but in a few minute he make him out .
He be lie down all cover over except his head .
There be something the matter with him .
Happy Jack do n't need to be tell that , and a great pity fill his heart .
He want to do something for Farmer Brown 's boy .
CHAPTER XX WHAT WAS THE MATTER WITH FARMER BROWN 'S BOY ?
He who climb the high have the farthest to fall , but often it be worth the risk .
Happy Jack .
All the way home from his visit to Farmer Brown 's house Happy Jack Squirrel puzzle and wonder over what he have see .
He have peep in at a window and see Farmer Brown 's boy lie all cover up , with only his head showing .
Happy Jack could n't see very well , but somehow that head do n't look just right .
One thing be sure , and that be there be something wrong with Farmer Brown 's boy .
He never would have be lie still like that if there have n't be .
Happy Jack have be so troubled by what he saw that he have hardly taste the nut he have find on the window-sill .
`` I be go to make him another call to-morrow , '' say he when he and Tommy Tit be once more back in the Green Forest .
`` Of course , '' reply Tommy .
`` I expect you would .
I will be around for you at the same time .
You 're not afraid any more to go up there , be you ? ''
`` No-o , '' reply Happy Jack , slowly .
The truth be , he be still a little afraid .
It seem to him a terribly venturesome thing to cross that open dooryard , but have do it once in safety , he know that it would be easy the next time .
It be .
The next morning he and Tommy Tit go just a before , and this time Happy Jack scamper across the dooryard the very first time he try .
They find thing just a they have be the day before .
They saw Farmer Brown 's boy , but he do n't see them .
Tommy Tit be just go to tap on the window to let him know they be there , when a door inside open , and in walked Mrs. Brown .
It frighten them so that Tommy Tit fly away without taste a single nut , and Happy Jack nearly fell a he scramble back into the tree close by the window .
You see , they never have make her acquaintance , and have her walk in so suddenly frighten them terribly .
They do n't stop to think that there be nothing to fear because there be the window between .
Somehow they could n't understand that queer stuff that they could see through but which shut them out .
If they have see Mrs. Brown go to the window and put more cracked nut on the sill , perhaps they would have be less afraid .
But they have be too badly frighten to look back , and so they do n't know anything about that .
The next morning Tommy Tit be on hand a usual , but he find Happy Jack a little doubtful about pay another visit .
He be n't wholly over his scare of the day before .
It take him some time to make up his mind to go , but finally he do .
This time when they reach the tree close by the house , they find a great surprise await them .
Farmer Brown 's boy be sit just inside the window , look out .
At least , they think it be Farmer Brown 's boy , but when they get a little nearer , they grow doubtful .
It look like Farmer Brown 's boy , and yet it do n't .
His cheek stick way out just a Striped Chipmunk 's do when he have them stuff full of corn or nut .
Happy Jack star at him very hard .
`` My goodness , I do n't know he carry his food that way ! ''
he exclaim .
`` I should think it would be dreadfully uncomfortable . ''
If Farmer Brown 's boy could have hear that , he certainly would have try to laugh , and if he have -- well , it be bad enough when he try to smile at the sight of Tommy Tit and Happy Jack .
He do n't smile at all but make up an awful face instead and clap both hand to his cheek .
Happy Jack and Tommy Tit do n't know what to make of it , and it be some time before they make up their mind that it really be Farmer Brown 's boy , and that they have nothing to fear .
But when they finally venture on to the sill and , a they help themselves to nut , saw the smile in his eye , though he do not smile with his mouth at all , they know that it be he , and that he be glad that they have call .
Then they be glad too .
But what be the matter with Farmer Brown 's boy ?
Happy Jack puzzle over it all the rest of the day , and then give it up .
CHAPTER XXI HAPPY JACK SQUIRREL GROWS VERY BOLD When you find a friend in trouble Pass along a word of cheer .
Often it be very helpful Just to feel a friend be near .
Happy Jack .
Every day Happy Jack visit the window sill of Farmer Brown 's house to call on Farmer Brown 's boy , who be always wait for him just inside the window .
In fact Happy Jack have get into the habit of get his breakfast there , for always there be fat , delicious nut on the window-sill , and it be much easy and more comfortable to breakfast there than to hunt up his own hidden supply and perhaps have to dig down through the snow to get them .
Most people be just like Happy Jack -- they do the easy thing .
Each day Farmer Brown 's boy look more and more like himself .
His cheek stick out less and less , and finally do not stick out at all .
And now he smile at Happy Jack with his mouth as well a with his eye .
You know when his cheek have stick out so , he could n't smile at all except with his eye .
Happy Jack do n't know what have be the matter with Farmer Brown 's boy , but whatever it be , he be well now , and that make Happy Jack feel well .
One morning he get a surprise .
When he run out along the branch of the tree that lead to the window-sill he suddenly discover something wrong .
There be no nut on the sill !
More than this there be something very suspicious look about the window .
It do n't look just right .
The truth be it be partly open , but Happy Jack do n't understand this , not then , anyway .
He stop short and scold , a way he have when thing do n't suit him .
Farmer Brown 's boy come to the window and call to him .
Then he thrust a hand out , and in it be some of the fat nut Happy Jack ever have see .
His mouth water right away .
There might be something wrong with the window , but certainly the sill be all right .
It would do no harm to go that far .
So Happy Jack nimbly jump across to the window-sill .
Farmer Brown 's boy 's hand with the fat nut be still there , and Happy Jack lose no time in get one .
Then he sit up on the sill to eat it .
My , but it be good !
It be just as good a it have look .
Happy Jack 's eye twinkle a he eat .
When he have finish that nut , he want another .
But now Farmer Brown 's boy have draw his hand inside the window .
He be still hold it out with the nut in it , but to get them Happy Jack must go inside , and he could n't get it out of his head that that be a very dangerous thing to do .
What if that window should be close while he be in there ?
Then he would be a prisoner .
So he sit up and beg .
He know that Farmer Brown 's boy know what he want .
But Farmer Brown 's boy keep his hand just where it be .
`` Come on , you little rascal , '' say he .
`` You ought to know me well enough by this time to know that I wo n't hurt you or let any harm come to you .
Hurry up , because I ca n't stand here all day .
You see , I 've just get over the mumps , and if I should catch cold I might be sick again .
Come along now , and show how brave you be . ''
Of course Happy Jack could n't understand what he say .
If he could have , he might have guess that it be the mumps that have make Farmer Brown 's boy look so like Striped Chipmunk when he have his cheek stuffed with nut .
But if he could n't understand what Farmer Brown 's boy say , he have no difficulty in understand that if he want those nut he would have to go after them .
So at last he screw up his courage and put his head inside .
Nothing happen , so he go wholly in and sit on the inside sill .
Then by reach out as far a he could without tumble off , he manage to get one of those nut , and as soon a he have it , he dodge outside to eat it .
Farmer Brown 's boy laugh , and put the rest of the nut outside , he close the window .
Happy Jack ate his fill and then scamper back to the Green Forest .
He felt all puff up with pride .
He felt that he have be very , very bold , and he be anxious to tell Tommy Tit the Chickadee , who have not be with him that morning , how bold he have be .
`` Pooh , that 's nothing ! ''
reply Tommy , when he have hear about it .
`` I 've do that often . ''
CHAPTER XXII HAPPY JACK DARES TOMMY TIT A wise philosopher be he Who take thing a they chance to be , And in them see that which be best While try to forget the rest .
Happy Jack .
Somehow Happy Jack 's day have be spoil .
He know that he have no business to allow it to be spoil , but it be , just the same .
You see , he have be all puff up with pride because he think himself a very bold fellow because he have really be inside Farmer Brown 's house .
He could n't help feel quite puff up about it .
But when he tell Tommy Tit the Chickadee about it , Tommy have say , `` Pooh !
I 've do that often . ''
That be what have spoil the day for Happy Jack .
He know that if Tommy Tit say that he have do a thing , he have , for Tommy always tell the truth and nothing but the truth .
So Happy Jack have n't be so dreadfully bold , after all , and have nothing to brag about .
It make him feel quite put out .
He actually try to make himself feel that it be all the fault of Tommy Tit , and that he want to get even with him .
He think about it all the rest of the day , and just before he fell asleep that night an idea come to him .
`` I know what I 'll do !
I 'll dare Tommy to go a far inside Farmer Brown 's house a I do ! ''
he exclaim , and go to sleep to dream that he be the bold , brave squirrel that ever live .
The next morning when he reach the tree close by Farmer Brown 's house , he find Tommy Tit already there , flit about impatiently and call his loud , which be n't very loud , for you know Tommy be a very little fellow , and his voice be not very loud .
But he be do his best to call Farmer Brown 's boy .
You see , there be n't a single nut on the window-sill , and the window be close .
Pretty soon Farmer Brown 's boy come to the window and open it .
But he do n't put out any nut .
Tommy Tit at once fly over to the sill , and to show that he be just a bold , Happy Jack follow .
Looking inside , they saw Farmer Brown 's boy standing in the middle of the room , hold out a dish of nut and smile at them .
This be the chance Happy Jack want to try the plan he have think of the night before .
`` I dare you to go way in there and get a nut , '' say he to Tommy Tit .
He hop that Tommy would be afraid .
But Tommy be n't anything of the kind .
`` Dee , dee , dee !
Come on ! ''
he cry , and flit over and help himself to a crack nut and be back with it before Happy Jack could make up his mind to jump down inside .
Of course now that he have dare Tommy Tit , and Tommy have take the dare , he just have to do it too .
It look a long way in to where Farmer Brown 's boy be stand .
Twice he start and turn back .
Then he hear Tommy Tit chuckle .
That be too much .
He would n't be laugh at .
He just would n't .
He scamper across , grab a nut , and rush back to the window-sill , where he eat the nut .
It be easy to go after the second nut , and when he go for the third , he have make up his mind that it be perfectly safe in there , and so he sit up on a chair and eat it .
Presently he felt quite at home , and when he have eat all the nut he want , he run all around the room , examine all the strange thing there .
This be a little more than Tommy Tit could make up his mind to do .
He be n't afraid to fly in for a nut and then fly out again , but he could n't feel easy inside a house like that .
Of course , this make Happy Jack feel good all over .
You see , he felt that now he really do have something to boast about .
No one else in all the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows could say that they have be all over Farmer Brown 's boy 's room a he have .
Happy Jack swell himself out at the thought .
Now everybody would say , `` What a bold fellow ! ''
CHAPTER XXIII SAMMY JAY IS QUITE UPSET I know of nothing sweeter than Success to Squirrel or to man .
Happy Jack .
Very few people can be all puff up with pride without show it .
Happy Jack Squirrel could n't .
Just to have look at him you would have know that he be feel very , very good about something .
When he think no one be look , he would actually strut .
And it be all because he consider himself a very bold fellow .
That be a new feeling for Happy Jack .
He know that all his neighbor consider him rather timid , and many a time he have envy , actually envy Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox and Unc ' Billy Possum and even Sammy Jay because they do such bold thing and have dare to visit Farmer Brown 's dooryard and henhouse in spite of Bowser the Hound .
But now he felt that he dare do a thing that not one of them dare do .
He dare go right into Farmer Brown 's house and make himself quite at home in the room of Farmer Brown 's boy .
He felt that he be a tremendously brave fellow .
You see , he quite forget one thing .
He forget that he have find out that love destroys fear , and that though it might look to others like a very bold thing to walk right into Farmer Brown 's house , it really be n't bold at all , because all the time he know that no harm would come to him .
It be never brave to do a thing that you be not afraid to do .
It have be brave of him to go in at that open window the first time , because then he have be afraid , but now he be n't afraid , and so it be no long either brave or bold of him .
Tommy Tit the Chickadee know all this , and he use to chuckle to himself a he saw how proud of himself Happy Jack be , but he say nothing to any one about it .
Of course , it be n't long before others begin to notice Happy Jack 's pride .
One of the first be Sammy Jay .
There be very little that escape Sammy Jay 's sharp eye .
Silently steal through the Green Forest early one morning , he surprise Happy Jack strutting .
`` Huh , '' say he , `` what be you feel so big about ? ''
Like a flash the thought come to Happy Jack that here be a chance to show what a bold fellow he have become .
`` Hello , Sammy ! ''
he exclaim .
`` Are you feeling very brave this morning ? ''
`` Me feeling brave ?
What be you talk about ?
If I be as timid a you be , I would n't ever talk about bravery to other people .
If there be anything you dare to do that I do n't , I 've never hear of it , '' retort Sammy Jay .
`` Come on ! ''
cry Happy Jack .
`` I 'm go to get my breakfast , and I dare you to follow me ! ''
Sammy Jay actually laugh right out .
`` Go ahead .
Wherever you go , I 'll go , '' he declare .
Happy Jack start right away for Farmer Brown 's house , and Sammy follow .
Through the Old Orchard , across the dooryard and into the big maple tree Happy Jack lead the way , and Sammy follow , all the time wonder what be up .
He have be there many time .
In fact , he have have many a good meal of suet there during the cold weather , for Farmer Brown 's boy have keep a big piece tie to a branch of the maple tree for those who be hungry .
Sammy be a little surprised when he saw Happy Jack jump over on to the window-sill .
Still , he have be on that window-sill more than once himself , when he have make sure that no one be near , and have help himself to the crack nut he have find there .
`` Come on ! ''
call Happy Jack , his eye twinkle .
Sammy Jay chuckle .
`` He think I do n't dare go over there , '' he think .
`` Well , I 'll fool him . ''
With a hasty look to see that no danger be near , he spread his wing to follow Happy Jack on to the window-sill .
Happy Jack wait to make sure that he really be come and then slip in at the open window and scamper over to a table on the farther side of the room and help himself from a dish of nut there .
When Sammy saw Happy Jack disappear inside he give a little gasp .
When he look inside and saw Happy Jack make himself quite at home , he gasp again .
And when he saw a door open and Farmer Brown 's boy enter , and still Happy Jack do not run , he be too upset for word .
He do n't dare stay to see more , and for once in his life be quite speechless a he fly back to the Green Forest .
CHAPTER XXIV A DREAM COMES TRUE What be all our dream make up of That they often be so queer ?
Wishes , hope , and fond desire All mix up with foolish fear .
Happy Jack .
Which be bad , to have a very beautiful dream never come true , or to have a bad dream really come true ?
Happy Jack Squirrel say the latter be bad , much bad .
Dreams do come true once in a great while , you know .
One of Happy Jack 's do .
It come true , and it make a great difference in Happy Jack 's life .
You see , it be like this : Happy Jack have have so many thing to think of that he have almost forget about Shadow the Weasel .
Happy Jack have n't see or hear anything of him since Farmer Brown 's boy have chase him into the Green Forest and so save Happy Jack 's life .
Since then life have be too full of pleasant thing to think of anything so unpleasant a Shadow the Weasel .
But one night Happy Jack have a bad dream .
Yes , Sir , it be a very bad dream .
He dream that once more Shadow the Weasel be after him , and this time there be no Farmer Brown 's boy to run to for help .
Shadow be right at his heel and in one more jump would have him .
Happy Jack open his mouth to scream , and -- awoke .
He be all ashake with fright .
It be a great relief to find that it be only a dream , but even then he could n't get over it right away .
He be glad that it be almost morning , and just as soon a it be light enough to see , he creep out .
It be too early to go over to Farmer Brown 's house ; Farmer Brown 's boy would n't be up yet .
So Happy Jack ran over to one of his favorite lookout , a tall chestnut tree , and there , with his back against the trunk , high above the ground , he watch the Green Forest wake a the first Sunbeams stole through it .
But all the time he keep thinking of that dreadful dream .
A little spot of black move against the white snow catch his sharp eye .
What be it ?
He lean forward and hold his breath , a he try to make sure .
Ah , now he could see !
Just ahead of that black thing be a long , slim fellow all in white , and that black spot be his tail .
If it have n't be for that , Happy Jack very likely would n't have see him at all .
It be Shadow the Weasel !
He be run swiftly , first to one side and then to the other , with his nose to the snow .
He be hunt .
There be no doubt about that .
He be hunt for his breakfast .
Happy Jack 's eye grow wide with fear .
Would Shadow find his track ?
It look very much a if Shadow be head for Happy Jack 's house , and Happy Jack be glad , very glad , that that bad dream have wake him and make him so uneasy that he have come out .
Otherwise he might have be catch right in his own bed .
Shadow be almost at Happy Jack 's house when he stop abruptly with his nose to the snow and sniff eagerly .
Then he turn , and with his nose to the snow , start straight toward the tree where Happy Jack be .
Happy Jack wait to see no more .
He know now that Shadow have find his trail and that it be to be a case of run for his life .
`` My dream have come true ! ''
he sob a he run .
`` My dream have come true , and I do n't know what to do ! ''
But all the time he keep on run as fast a ever he could , which really be the only thing to do .
CHAPTER XXV HAPPY JACK HAS A HAPPY THOUGHT Who run when danger come his way Will live to run some other day .
Happy Jack .
Frightened and breathless , run with all his might from Shadow the Weasel , Happy Jack Squirrel be in despair .
He do n't know what to do or where to go .
The last time he have run from Shadow he have run to Farmer Brown 's boy , who have just happen to be near , and Farmer Brown 's boy have chase Shadow the Weasel away .
But now it be too early in the morning for him to expect to meet Farmer Brown 's boy .
In fact , jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have hardly kick his bedclothes off yet , and Happy Jack be very sure that Farmer Brown 's boy be still asleep .
Now most of u be creature of habit .
We do the thing that we have be in the habit of do , and do it without think anything about it .
That be why good habit be such a blessing .
Happy Jack Squirrel be just like the rest of u .
He have habit , both good and bad .
Of late , he have be in the habit of get his breakfast at Farmer Brown 's house every morning , so now when he begin to run from Shadow the Weasel he just naturally run in the direction of Farmer Brown 's house from force of habit .
In fact , he be halfway there before he realize in which direction he be run .
Right then a thought come to him .
It give him a wee bit of hope , and seem to help him run just a little faster .
If the window of Farmer Brown 's boy 's room be open , he would run in there , and perhaps Shadow the Weasel would n't dare follow !
How he do hope that that window would be open !
He know that it be his only chance .
He be n't quite sure that it really be a chance , for Shadow be such a bold fellow that he might not be afraid to follow him right in , but it be worth try .
Along the stone wall beside the Old Orchard race Happy Jack to the dooryard of Farmer Brown , and after him run Shadow the Weasel , and Shadow look a if he be enjoy himself .
No doubt he be .
He know just as well a Happy Jack do that there be small chance of meet Farmer Brown 's boy so early in the morning , so he felt very sure how that chase be go to end , and that when it do end he would breakfast on Squirrel .
By the time Happy Jack reach the dooryard , Shadow be only a few jump behind him , and Happy Jack be pretty well out of breath .
He do n't stop to look to see if the way be clear .
There be n't time for that .
Besides , there could be no great danger in front than be almost at his heel , and so , without look one way or another , he scamper across the dooryard and up the big maple tree close to the house .
Shadow the Weasel be surprise .
He have not dream that Happy Jack would come over here .
But Shadow be a bold fellow , and it make little difference to him where Happy Jack go .
At least , that be what he think .
So he follow Happy Jack across the dooryard and up the maple tree .
He take his time about it , for he know by the way Happy Jack have run that he be pretty nearly at the end of his strength .
`` He never 'll get out of this tree , '' think Shadow , a he start to climb it .
He fully expect to find Happy Jack huddle in a miserable little heap somewhere near the top .
Just imagine how surprised he be when he discover that Happy Jack be n't to be see .
He rub his angry little red eye , and they grow angry and red than before .
`` Must be a hollow up here somewhere , '' he mutter .
`` I 'll just follow the scent of his foot , and that will lead me to him . ''
But when that scent lead him out on a branch the tip of which brush against Farmer Brown 's house Shadow get another surprise .
There be no sign of Happy Jack .
He could n't have reach the roof .
There be no place he could have go unless -- .
Shadow star across at a window open about two inch .
`` He could n't have ! ''
mutter Shadow .
`` He would n't dare .
He could n't have ! ''
But Happy Jack have .
He have go inside that window .
CHAPTER XXVI FARMER BROWN 'S BOY WAKES WITH A START Never think another crazy just because it happen you Never 've hear of just the thing that they have start out to do .
Happy Jack .
Is n't it queer how hard it seem to be for some boy to go to bed at the proper time and how much hard it be for them to get up in the morning ?
It be just so with Farmer Brown 's boy .
I suppose he would n't have be a real boy if it have n't be so .
Of course , while he be sick with the mumps , he do n't have to get up , and while he be get over the mumps his mother let him sleep as long a he want to in the morning .
That be very nice , but it make it all the harder to get up when he should after he be well again .
In summer it be n't so bad get up early , but in winter -- well , that be the one thing about winter that Farmer Brown 's boy do n't like .
On this particular morning Farmer Brown have call him , and he have reply with a sleepy `` All right . ''
and then have roll over and promptly go to sleep again .
In two minute he be dream just a if there be no such thing a duty to be do .
For a while they be very pleasant dream , very pleasant indeed .
But suddenly they change .
A terrible monster be chase him .
It have great red eye as big a saucer , and spark of fire flew from it mouth .
It have great claw as big a ice tongs , and it roar like a lion .
In his dream Farmer Brown 's boy be run with all his might .
Then he trip and fell , and somehow he could n't get up again .
The terrible monster come nearer and nearer .
Farmer Brown 's boy try to scream and could n't .
He be so frightened that he have lose his voice .
The terrible monster be right over him now and reach out one of his huge paw with the great claw .
One of them touch him on the cheek , and it burn like fire .
With a yell , a real , genuine yell , Farmer Brown 's boy awoke and spring out of bed .
For a minute he could n't think where he be .
Then with a sigh of relief he realize that he be safe in his own snug little room with the first Jolly Little Sunbeam creep in at the window to wish him good morning and chide him for be such a lazy fellow .
A thump and a scurry of little foot catch his attention , and he turn to see a Gray Squirrel run for the open window .
It jump up on the sill , look out , then jump down inside again , and run over to a corner of the room , where he crouch a if in great fear .
It be clear that he have be badly frighten by the yell of Farmer Brown 's boy , and that he be still more frightened by something he have see when he look out of the window .
A great light break over Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Happy Jack , you little rascal , I believe you be the terrible monster that scar me so ! ''
he exclaim .
`` I believe you be on my bed , and that it be your claw that I felt on my face .
But what ail you ?
You look frightened almost to death . ''
He go over to the window and look out .
A movement in the big maple tree just outside catch his attention .
He saw a long , slim white form dart down the tree and disappear .
He know who it be .
It be Shadow the Weasel .
`` So that pesky Weasel have be after you again , and you come to me for help , '' say he gently , a he coax Happy Jack to come to him .
`` This be the place to come to every time .
Poor little chap , you 're all of a tremble .
I guess I know how you feel when a Weasel be after you .
I guess you feel just a I felt when I dream that that monster be after me .
My , but you certainly do give me a scare when you touch my face ! ''
He gently stroke Happy Jack a he talk , and Happy Jack let him .
`` Breakfast ! ''
call a voice from downstairs .
`` Coming ! ''
reply Farmer Brown 's boy a he put Happy Jack on the table by a dish of nut and begin to scramble into his clothes .
CHAPTER XXVII HAPPY JACK IS AFRAID TO GO HOME Safety first be the best rule to insure a long life .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack do n't dare go home .
Can you think of anything more dreadful than to be afraid to go to your own home ?
Why , home be the dear place in the world , and it should be the safe .
Just think how you would feel if you should be away from home , and then you should learn that it would n't be safe for you to go back there again , and you have no other place to go .
It often happen that way with the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
It be that way with Happy Jack Squirrel now .
You see , Happy Jack know that Shadow the Weasel be not one to give up easily .
Shadow have one very good trait , and that be persistence .
He be not easily discourage .
When he set out to do a thing , usually he do it .
If he start to get a thing , usually he get it .
No , he be n't easily discourage .
Happy Jack know this .
No one know it good .
So Happy Jack do n't dare to go home .
He know that any minute of night or day Shadow might surprise him there , and that would be the end of him .
He more than half suspect that Shadow be at that very time hide somewhere along the way ready to spring out on him if he should try to go back home .
He have stay in the room of Farmer Brown 's boy until Mrs. Brown have come to make the bed .
Then he have jump out the window into the big maple tree .
He be n't quite sure of Mrs. Brown yet .
She have kindly eye .
They be just like the eye of Farmer Brown 's boy .
But he do n't feel really acquaint yet , and he felt safe outside than inside the room while she be there .
`` Oh dear , oh dear !
What shall I do ?
I have no home , and so To keep me warm and snug and safe I have no place to go ! ''
Happy Jack say this over and over a he sit in the maple tree , try to decide what be to be do .
`` I wonder what ail that Squirrel .
He seem to be do a lot of scolding , '' say Mrs. Brown , a she look out of the window .
And that show how easy it be to misunderstand people when we do n't know all about their affair .
Mrs. Brown think that Happy Jack be scold , when all the time he be just frighten and worry and wonder where he could go and what he could do to feel safe from Shadow the Weasel .
Because he do n't dare to go back to the Green Forest , he spend most of the day in the big maple tree close to Farmer Brown 's house .
The window have be close , so he could n't go inside .
He look at it longingly a great many time during the day , hop that he would find it open .
But he do n't .
You see , it be open only at night when Farmer Brown 's boy go to bed , so that he would have plenty of fresh air all night .
Of course Happy Jack do n't know that .
All his life he have have plenty of fresh air all the time , and be could n't understand how people could live in house all shut up .
Late that afternoon Farmer Brown 's boy , who have be at school all day , come whistle into the yard .
He notice Happy Jack right away .
`` Hello !
You back again !
Is n't one good meal a day enough ? ''
he exclaim .
`` He 's be there all day , '' say his mother , who have come to the door just in time to overhear him .
`` I do n't know what ail him . ''
Then Farmer Brown 's boy notice how forlorn Happy Jack look .
He remember Happy Jack 's fright that morning .
`` I know what 's the matter ! ''
he cry .
`` It 's that Weasel .
The poor little chap be afraid to go home .
We must see what we can do for him .
I wonder if he will stay if I make a new house for him .
I believe I 'll try it and see . ''
CHAPTER XXVIII HAPPY JACK FINDS A NEW HOME They say the very dark cloud Are line with silver bright and fair , Though how they know I do not see , And neither do I really care .
It 's good to believe , and so I try To believe 't be true with all my might , That nothing be so seeming dark But have a hidden side that 's bright .
Happy Jack .
Certainly thing could n't look much dark than they do to Happy Jack Squirrel a he sit in the big maple tree at the side of Farmer Brown 's house , and saw jolly , round , red Mr. Sun get ready to go to bed behind the Purple Hills .
He be afraid to go to his home in the Green Forest because Shadow the Weasel might be wait for him there .
He be afraid of the night which would soon come .
He be cold , and he be hungry .
Altogether he be a miserable a little Squirrel a ever be see .
He have just make up his mind that he would have to go look for a hollow in one of the tree in the Old Orchard in which to spend the night , when around the corner of the house come Farmer Brown 's boy with something under one arm and drag a ladder .
He whistle cheerily to Happy Jack a he put the ladder against the tree and climb up .
By this time Happy Jack have grow so timid that he be just a little afraid of Farmer Brown 's boy , so he climb a high up in the tree a he could get and watch what be go on below .
Even if he be afraid , there be comfort in have Farmer Brown 's boy near .
For some time Farmer Brown 's boy work busily at the place where the branch that Happy Jack know so well start out from the trunk of the tree towards the window of Farmer Brown 's boy 's room .
When he have fix thing to suit him , he go down the ladder and carry it away with him .
In the crotch of the tree he have leave the queer thing that he have bring under his arm .
In spite of his fear , Happy Jack be curious .
Little by little he creep nearer .
What he saw be a box with a round hole , just about big enough for him to go through , in one end , and in front of it a little shelf .
On the shelf be some of the nut that he like best .
For a long time Happy Jack look and look .
Was it a trap ?
Somehow he could n't believe that it be .
What would Farmer Brown 's boy try to trap him for when they be such good friend ?
At last the sight of the nut be too much for him .
It certainly be safe enough to help himself to those .
How good they taste !
Almost before he know it , they be go .
Then he get up courage enough to peep inside .
The box be fill with soft hay .
It certainly do look inviting in there to a fellow who have no home and no place to go .
He put his head inside .
Finally he go wholly in .
It be just as nice a it look .
`` I believe , '' think Happy Jack , `` that he make this little house just for me , and that he put all this hay in here for my bed .
He do n't know much about make a bed , but I guess he mean well . ''
With that he go to work happily to make up a bed to suit him , and by the time the first Black Shadow have creep as far a the big maple tree , Happy Jack be curl up fast asleep in his new house .
CHAPTER XXIX FARMER BROWN 'S BOY TAKES A PRISONER The craftiest and cleverest , the strong and the bold Will make mistake like other folk , young , middle-aged , and old .
Happy Jack .
Happy Jack Squirrel be happy once more .
He like his new house , the house that Farmer Brown 's boy have make for him and fasten in the big maple tree close by the house in which he himself live .
Happy Jack and Farmer Brown 's boy be get to be great friend than ever .
Every morning Happy Jack jump over to the window-sill and then in at the open window of the room of Farmer Brown 's boy .
There he be sure to find a good breakfast of fat hickory nut .
When Farmer Brown 's boy overslept , a he do sometimes , Happy Jack would jump up on the bed and waken him .
He think this great fun .
So do Farmer Brown 's boy , though sometimes when he be very sleepy he pretend to scold , especially on Sunday morning when he do not have to get up as early a on other day .
Of course , Black Pussy have soon discover that Happy Jack be live in the big maple tree , and she spend a great deal of time sit at the foot of it and glare up at him with a hungry look in her eye , although she be n't hungry at all , for she have plenty to eat .
Several time she climb up in the tree and try to catch him .
At first he have be afraid , but he soon find out that Black Pussy be not at all at home in a tree a he be .
After that , he rather enjoy have her try to catch him .
It be almost like a game .
It be great fun to scold at her and let her get very near him and then , just a she be sure that she be go to catch him , to jump out of her reach .
After a while she be content to sit at the foot of the tree and just glare at him .
Happy Jack have only one worry now , and this do n't trouble him a great deal .
It be possible that Shadow the Weasel might take it into his head to try to surprise him some night .
Happy Jack know that by this time Shadow must know where he be live , for of course Sammy Jay have find out , and Sammy be one of those who tell all he know .
Still , be so close to Farmer Brown 's boy give Happy Jack a very comfortable feeling .
Now all this time Farmer Brown 's boy have not forget Shadow the Weasel and how he have drive Happy Jack out of the Green Forest , and he have wonder a great many time if it would n't be a kindness to the other little people if he should trap Shadow and put him out of the way .
But you know he have give up trapping , and somehow he do n't like to think of set a trap , even for such a mischief-maker a Shadow .
Then something happen that make Farmer Brown 's boy very , very angry .
One morning , when he go to fee the biddy , he find that Shadow have visit the henhouse in the night and kill three of his best pullet .
That decide him .
He felt sure that Shadow would come again , and he mean to give Shadow a surprise .
He hunt until he find the little hole through which Shadow have get into the henhouse , and there he set a trap .
`` I do n't like to do it , but I 've get to , '' say he .
`` If he have be content with one , it would have be bad enough , but he kill three just from the love of killing , and it be high time that something be do to get rid of him . ''
The very next morning Happy Jack saw Farmer Brown 's boy come from the henhouse with something under his arm .
He come straight over to the foot of the big maple tree and put the thing he be carry down on the ground .
He whistle to Happy Jack , and a Happy Jack come down to see what it be all about , Farmer Brown 's boy grin .
`` Here 's a friend of yours you probably will be glad to see , '' say he .
At first , all Happy Jack could make out be a kind of wire box .
Then he saw something white inside , and it move .
Very suspiciously Happy Jack come nearer .
Then his heart give a great leap .
That wire box be a cage , and glare between the wire with red , angry eye be Shadow the Weasel !
He be a prisoner !
Right away Happy Jack be so excited that he act a if he be crazy .
He no longer have a single thing to be afraid of .
Do you wonder that he be excite ?
CHAPTER XXX A PRISONER WITHOUT FEAR A bad name be easy to get but hard to live down .
Happy Jack .
Shadow the Weasel be a prisoner .
He who always have be free to go and come a he please and to do a he please be now in a little narrow cage and quite helpless .
For once he have be careless , and this be the result .
Farmer Brown 's boy have catch him in a trap .
Of course , he should have know good than to have visit the henhouse a second time after kill three of the best pullet there .
He should have know that Farmer Brown 's boy would be sure to do something about it .
The truth be , he have yield to temptation when common sense have warn him not to .
So he have no one to blame for his present difficulty but himself , and he know it .
At first he have be in a terrible rage and have bite at the wire until he have make his mouth sore .
When he have make sure that the wire be stout than his teeth , he wisely stop try to get out in that way , and make up his mind that the only thing to do be to watch for a chance to slip out , if the door of the cage should happen to be leave unfastened .
Of course it hurt his pride terribly to be make fun of by those who always have fear him .
Happy Jack Squirrel be the first one of these to see him .
Farmer Brown 's boy have put the cage down near the foot of the big maple tree in which Happy Jack be live , because Shadow have drive him out of the Green Forest .
As soon a Happy Jack have make sure that Shadow really and truly be a prisoner and so quite harmless , he have act a if he be crazy .
Perhaps he be -- crazy with joy .
You see , he no longer have anything to be really afraid of , for there be no one but Shadow from whom he could not get away by run into his house .
Billy Mink be the only other one who could follow him there , and Billy be not likely to come climb up a tree so close to Farmer Brown 's house .
So Happy Jack race up and down the tree in the very great excitement , and his tongue go quite as fast a his leg .
He want everybody to know that Shadow be a prisoner at last .
At first he do not dare go very close to the cage .
You see , he have so long feared Shadow that he be still afraid of him even though he be so helpless .
But little by little Happy Jack grow bolder and come very close .
And then he begin do something not at all nice .
He begin call Shadow name and make fun of him , and tell him how he be n't afraid of him .
It be all very foolish and bad -- it be like hit a foe who be helpless .
Of course Happy Jack hasten to tell everybody he meet all about Shadow , so it be n't long before Shadow begin to receive many visitor .
Whenever Farmer Brown 's boy be not around there be sure to be one or more of the little people who have fear Shadow to taunt him and make fun of him .
Somehow it seem a if always it be that way when people get into trouble .
You know it be very easy to appear to be bold and brave when there be nothing to be afraid of .
Of course that be n't bravery at all , though many seem to think it be .
-LSB- Illustration : IT WAS N'T LONG BEFORE SHADOW BEGAN TO RECEIVE MANY VISITORS . -RSB-
Now what do you think that right down in their heart all these little people who come to jeer at Shadow the Weasel hop they would see ?
Why , they hop they would see Shadow afraid .
Yes , Sir , that be just what they hop .
But they do n't .
That be where they be disappoint .
Not once do Shadow show the least sign of fear .
He do n't know what Farmer Brown 's boy would do with him , and he have every reason to fear that if he be not to be keep a prisoner for the rest of his natural life , something dreadful would be the end .
But he be too proud and too brave to let any one know that any such fear ever enter his mind .
Whatever his fault , Shadow be no coward .
He boldly take bit of meat which Farmer Brown 's boy bring to him , and not once appear in the least afraid , so that , much a he dislike him , Farmer Brown 's boy actually have to admire him .
He be a prisoner , but he keep just a stout a heart a ever .
CHAPTER XXXI WHAT FARMER BROWN 'S BOY DID WITH SHADOW Ribble , dibble , dibble , dab !
Some people have the gift of gab !
Some people have no tongue at all To trip them up and make them fall .
Happy Jack .
It be a fact , one of the big fact in all the world , that tongue make the great part of all the trouble that bring uncomfortable feeling , and bitterness and sadness and suffering and sorrow .
If it be n't for unruly , careless , mean tongue , the Great World would be a million time well to live in , a million time happy .
It be because of his unruly tongue that Sammy Jay be forever get into trouble .
It be the same way with Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
And it be just the same way with a great many little boy and girl , and with grown-ups as well .
When the little people of the Green Forest and Green Meadows who fear Shadow the Weasel find that he be a prisoner , many of them take particular pain to visit him when the way be clear , just to make fun of him and tease him and tell him that they be not afraid of him and that they be glad that he be a prisoner , and that they be sure something dreadful would happen to him and they hop it would .
Shadow say never a word in reply .
He be too wise to do that .
He just turn his back on them .
But all the time he be store up in his mind all these hateful thing , and he mean , if ever he get free again , to make life very uncomfortable for those whose foolish tongue be try to make him more miserable than he already felt .
But these little people with the foolish tongue do n't stop to think of what might happen .
They just take it for grant that Shadow never again would run wild and free in the Green Forest , and so they just let their tongue run and enjoy do it .
Perhaps they would n't have , if they could have know just what be go on in the mind of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Ever since he have find Shadow in the trap which he have set for him in the henhouse , Farmer Brown 's boy have be puzzle over what he should do with his prisoner .
At first he have think he would keep him in a cage the rest of his life .
But somehow , whenever he look into Shadow 's fierce little eye and saw how unafraid they look , he get to think of how terrible it must be to be shut up in a little narrow cage when one have have all the Green Forest in which to go and come .
Then he think that he would kill Shadow and put him out of his misery at once .
`` He kill my pullet , and he be always hunt the harmless little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , so he deserve to be kill , '' think Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` He 's a pest . ''
Then he remember that after all Shadow be one of Old Mother Nature 's little people , and that he must serve some purpose in Mother Nature 's great plan .
Bad a he seem , she must have some use for him .
Perhaps it be to teach others through fear of him how to be smart and take good care of themselves and so be well fit to do their part .
The more he think of this , the harder it be for Farmer Brown 's boy to make up his mind to kill him .
But if he could n't keep him a prisoner and he could n't kill him , what could he do ?
He be scowl down at Shadow one morning and puzzling over this when a happy idea come to him .
`` I know what I 'll do ! ''
he exclaim .
Without another word he pick up the cage with Shadow in it and start off across the Green Meadows , which now , you know , be not green at all but cover with snow .
Happy Jack watch him out of sight .
He have go in the direction of the Old Pasture .
He be go a long time , and when he do return , the cage be empty .
Happy Jack blink at the empty cage .
Then he begin to ask in a scold tone , `` What do you do with him ?
What do you do with him ? ''
Farmer Brown 's boy just smile and toss a nut to Happy Jack .
And far up in the Old Pasture , Shadow the Weasel be once more free .
It be well for Happy Jack 's peace of mind that he do n't know that .
CHAPTER XXXII HAPPY JACK IS PERFECTLY HAPPY Never say a thing be so Unless you absolutely know .
Just remember every day To be quite sure of what you say .
Happy Jack .
Taking thing for grant do n't do at all in this world .
To take a thing for grant be to think that it be so without take the trouble to find out whether it be or not .
It be apt not only to get you yourself into trouble , but to make trouble for other people a well .
Happy Jack saw Farmer Brown 's boy carry Shadow the Weasel away in a cage , and he saw him bring back the cage empty .
What could he have do with Shadow ?
For a while he tease Farmer Brown 's boy to tell him , but of course Farmer Brown 's boy do n't understand Happy Jack 's language .
Now Happy Jack knew just what he would like to believe .
He would like to believe that Farmer Brown 's boy have take Shadow away and make an end of him .
And because he want to believe that , it be n't very hard to believe it .
There be the empty cage .
Of course Farmer Brown 's boy would n't have go to the trouble of trap Shadow unless he intend to get rid of him for good .
`` He 's make an end of him , that 's what he 's do ! ''
say Happy Jack to himself , because that be what he would have do if he have be in Farmer Brown 's boy 's place .
So have make up his mind that this be what have be do with Shadow , he at once tell all his friend that it be so , and be himself supremely happy .
You see , he felt that he no longer have anything to worry about .
Yes , Sir , Happy Jack be happy .
He like the house Farmer Brown 's boy have make for him in the big maple tree close by his own house .
He be sure of plenty to eat , because Farmer Brown 's boy always look out for that , and a a result Happy Jack be grow fat .
None of his enemy of the Green Forest dare come so near to Farmer Brown 's house , and the only one he have to watch out for at all be Black Pussy .
By this time he be n't afraid of her ; not a bit .
In fact , he rather enjoy tease her and get her to chase him .
When she be doze on the doorstep he like to steal very close , wake her with a sharp bark , and then race for the near tree , and there scold her to his heart 's content .
He have make friend with Mrs. Brown and with Farmer Brown , and he even felt almost friend with Bowser the Hound .
Sometimes he would climb up on the roof of Bowser 's little house and drop nutshell on Bowser 's head when he be asleep .
The funny thing be Bowser never seem to mind .
He would lazily open his eye and wink one of them at Happy Jack and thump with his tail .
He seem to feel that now Happy Jack be one of the family , just a he be .
So Happy Jack be just as happy a a fat Gray Squirrel with nothing to worry him could be .
He be so happy that Sammy Jay actually become jealous .
You know Sammy be a born trouble maker .
He visit Happy Jack every morning , and while he help himself to the good thing that he always find spread for him , for Farmer Brown 's boy always have something for the little feathered folk to eat , he would hint darkly that such goodness and kindness be not to be trust , and that something be sure to happen .
That be just the way with some folk ; they always be suspicious .
But nothing that Sammy Jay could say troubled Happy Jack ; and Sammy would fly away quite put out because he could n't spoil Happy Jack 's happiness the least little bit .
CHAPTER XXXIII SAMMY JAY UPSETS HAPPY JACK A good deed well do often be overlook , but you never be allow to forget a mistake .
Happy Jack .
Sammy Jay chuckle a he fly across the snow-covered Green Meadows on his way to his home in the Green Forest .
He chuckle and he chuckle .
To have hear him you would have think that either he have think of something very pleasant , or something very pleasant have happen to him .
Once he turn in the direction of Farmer Brown 's house , but change his mind a he saw the Black Shadows creep out from the Purple Hills , and once more head for the Green Forest .
`` Too late to-day .
Time I be home now .
It 'll keep until to-morrow , '' he mutter .
Then he chuckle , and he be still chuckle when he reach the big hemlock tree , among the thick branch of which he spend each night .
`` Do n't know what start me off to the Old Pasture this afternoon , but I 'm glad I go .
My , my , my , but I 'm glad I go , '' say he , a he fluff out his feather and prepare to tuck his head under his wing .
`` It pay to snoop around in this world and see what be go on .
I learn a long time ago not to believe everything I hear , and that the sure way to make sure of thing be to find out for myself .
Nothing like use my own eye and my own ear .
Well , I must get to sleep . ''
He begin to chuckle again , and he be still chuckle a he fell asleep .
The next morning Sammy Jay be astir at the very first sign of light .
He wait just long enough to see that every feather be in place , for Sammy be a bit vain , and very particular about his dress .
Then he head straight for Farmer Brown 's house .
Just a he expect he find Happy Jack Squirrel be awake , for Happy Jack be an early riser .
`` Good morning , '' say Sammy Jay , and try very hard to make his voice sound smooth and pleasant , a very hard thing for Sammy to do , for his voice , you know , be naturally harsh and unpleasant .
`` You seem to be look as happy a ever . ''
`` Of course I be , '' reply Happy Jack .
`` Why should n't I be ?
I have n't a thing to worry about .
Of course I 'm happy , and I hope you 're just as happy a I be .
I 'm go to get my breakfast now , and then I 'll be happy still . ''
`` That 's so .
There 's nothing like a good breakfast to make one happy , '' say Sammy Jay , help himself to some suet tie to a branch of the maple tree .
`` By the way , I saw an old friend of yours yesterday .
He inquire after you particularly .
He do n't exactly send his love , but he say that he hop you be as well and fat a ever , and that he will see you again some time .
He say that he do n't know of any one he like to look at good than you . ''
Happy Jack look flatter .
`` That be very nice of him , '' say he .
`` Who be it ? ''
`` Guess , '' reply Sammy .
Happy Jack scratch his head thoughtfully .
There be not many friend in winter .
Most of them be asleep or have go to the far away southland .
`` Peter Rabbit , '' he venture .
Sammy shake his head .
`` Jimmy Skunk ! ''
Again Sammy shake his head .
`` Jumper the Hare ! ''
`` Guess again , '' say Sammy , chuckle .
`` Little Joe Otter ! ''
`` Wrong , '' reply Sammy .
`` I give up .
Who be it ?
Do tell me , '' beg Happy Jack .
`` It be Shadow the Weasel ! ''
cry Sammy , triumphantly .
Happy Jack drop the nut he be just go to eat , and in place of happiness something very like fear grow and grow in his eye .
`` I -- I do n't believe you , '' he stammer .
`` Farmer Brown 's boy take him away and put an end to him .
I saw him take him . ''
`` But you do n't see him put an end to Shadow , '' declare Sammy , `` because he do n't .
He take him ` way up in the Old Pasture and let him go , and I saw him up there yesterday .
That 's what come of guess at thing .
Shadow be no more dead than you be .
Well , I must be go along .
I hope you 'll enjoy your breakfast . ''
With this , off fly Sammy Jay , chuckle a if he think he have do a very smart thing in upset Happy Jack , which go to show what queer idea some people have .
As for Happy Jack , he worry for a while , but a Shadow do n't come , and there be nothing else to worry about , little by little Happy Jack 's high spirit return , until he be as happy a ever .
And now , though he have have many adventure since then , I must leave him , for there be no more room in this book .
Perhaps if you ask him , he will tell you of these other adventure himself .
Meanwhile , bashful little Mrs. Peter Rabbit be anxious that you should know something about her .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Johnny_Chuck.txt.out
I GENTLE SISTER SOUTH WIND ARRIVES `` Good news , good news for every one , above or down below , For Master Winsome Bluebird 's come to whistle off the snow ! ''
All the Green Meadows and all the Green Forest have hear the news .
Peter Rabbit have see to that .
And just as soon a each of the little meadow and forest folk hear it , he hurry out to listen for himself and make sure that it be true .
And each , when he hear that sweet voice of Winsome Bluebird , have kick up his heel and shout `` Hurrah ! ''
You see they all know that Winsome Bluebird never be very far ahead of gentle Sister South Wind , and that when she arrive , bluster , rough Brother North Wind be already on his way back to the cold , cold land where the ice never melt .
Of course Winsome Bluebird do n't really whistle off the snow , but after he come , the snow disappear so fast that it seem a if he do .
It be surprising what a difference a little good news make .
Of course nothing have really change that first day when Winsome Bluebird 's whistle be hear on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest , but it seem a if everything have change .
And it be all because that sweet whistle be a promise , a promise that every one knew would come true .
And so there be joy in all the heart on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest .
Even grim old Granny Fox felt it , and a for Reddy Fox , why , Reddy even shout good-naturedly to Peter Rabbit and hop he be feel well .
And then gentle Sister South Wind arrive .
She come in the night , and in the morning there she be , hard at work make the Green Meadows and the Green Forest ready for Mistress Spring .
She break the icy band that have bind the Smiling Pool and the Laughing Brook so long ; and the Smiling Pool begin to smile once more , and the Laughing Brook to gurgle and then to laugh and finally to sing merrily .
She touch the little bank of snow that remain , and straightway they melt and disappear .
She kiss the eight baby of Unc ' Billy Possum , and they kick off the bedclothes under which old Mrs. Possum have tuck them and scramble out of the big hollow tree to play .
She peep in at the door of Johnny Chuck and call softly , and Johnny Chuck awake from his long sleep and yawn and begin to think about get up .
She knock at the door of Digger the Badger , and Digger awake .
She tickle the nose of Striped Chipmunk , who be about half awake , and Striped Chipmunk sneeze and then he hop out of bed and hurry up to his doorway to shout good morning after her , a she hurry over to see if Bobby Coon be still sleep .
Peter Rabbit follow her about .
He could n't understand it at all .
Peter have smile to himself when he hear how softly she have call at the doorway of Johnny Chuck 's house , for many and many a time during the long winter Peter have stop at Johnny Chuck 's house and shout down the long hall at the top of his voice without once wake Johnny Chuck .
Now Peter nearly tumble over with surprise , a he hear Johnny Chuck yawn at the first low call of gentle Sister South Wind .
`` How do she do it ?
I do n't understand it at all , '' say Peter , a he scratch his long left ear with his long left hind leg .
Gentle Sister South Wind smile at Peter .
`` There be a lot of thing in this world that you will never understand , Peter Rabbit .
You will just have to believe them without understand them and be content to know that they be so , '' she say , and hurry over to the Green Forest to tell Unc ' Billy Possum that his old friend , Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , be on his way up from ol ' Virginny .
II JOHNNY CHUCK RECEIVES CALLERS The morning after gentle Sister South Wind arrive on the Green Meadows , Peter Rabbit come hop and skip down the Lone Little Path from the Green Forest .
Peter be happy .
He do n't know why .
He just be happy .
It be in the air .
Everybody else seem happy , too .
Peter have to stop every few minute just to kick up his heel and try to jump over his own shadow .
He have felt just that way ever since gentle Sister South Wind arrive .
`` I simply have to kick and dance !
I can not help but gaily prance !
Somehow I feel it in my toe Whenever gentle South Wind blow . ''
So sang Peter Rabbit a he hop and skip down the Lone Little Path .
Suddenly he stop right in the middle of the verse .
He sit up very straight and star down at Johnny Chuck 's house .
Some one be sit on Johnny Chuck 's door-step .
It look like Johnny Chuck .
No , it look like the shadow of Johnny Chuck .
Peter rub his eye and look again .
Then he hurry as fast a he could , lipperty-lipperty - lip .
The nearer he get , the less like Johnny Chuck look the one sit on Johnny Chuck 's door-step .
Johnny Chuck have go to sleep round and fat and roly-poly , so fat he could hardly waddle .
This fellow be thin , even thin than Peter Rabbit himself .
He wave a thin hand to Peter .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit !
I tell you that I would see you in the spring .
How do you stand the long winter ? ''
That certainly be Johnny Chuck 's voice .
Peter be so delighted that in his hurry he fell over his own foot .
`` Is it really and truly you , Johnny Chuck ? ''
he cry .
`` Of course it 's me ; who do you think it be ? ''
reply Johnny Chuck rather crossly , for Peter be star at him a if he have never see him before .
`` I -- I -- I do n't know , '' confess Peter Rabbit .
`` I think it be you and I think it be n't you .
What have you be do to yourself , Johnny Chuck ?
Your coat look three size too big for you , and when I last saw you it do n't look big enough . ''
Peter hop all around Johnny Chuck , look at him a if he do n't believe his own eye .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Is it really and truly you , Johnny Chuck ? ''
he cry . -RSB-
`` Oh , Johnny 's all right .
He 's just be live on his own fat , '' say another voice .
It be Jimmy Skunk who have speak , and he now stand hold out his hand to Johnny Chuck and grin good-naturedly .
He have come up without either of the others see him .
Peter 's big eye open wider than ever .
`` Do you mean to say that he have be eat his own fat ? ''
he gasp .
Johnny Chuck and Jimmy Skunk both laugh .
`` No , '' say Jimmy Skunk , `` he do n't eat it , but he live on it just the same while he be asleep all winter .
Do n't you see he have n't get a particle of fat on him now ? ''
`` But how could he live on it , if he do n't eat it ? ''
ask Peter , star at Johnny Chuck a if he have never see him before .
Jimmy Skunk shrug his shoulder .
`` Do n't ask me .
That be one of Old Mother Nature 's secret ; you 'll have to ask her , '' he reply .
`` And do n't ask me , '' say Johnny Chuck , `` for I 've be asleep all the time .
My , but I 'm hungry ! ''
`` So be I ! ''
say another voice .
There be Reddy Fox grin at them .
Johnny Chuck dive into the doorway of his house with Peter Rabbit at his heel , for there be nowhere else to go .
Jimmy Skunk just stand still and chuckle .
He know that Reddy Fox do n't dare touch him .
III THE SINGERS OF THE SMILING POOL Mistress Spring be make everybody happy on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest and around the Smiling Pool .
With her gentle finger she waken one by one all the little sleeper who have spend the long winter dreaming of warm summer day and not know anything at all of rough , bluster Brother North Wind or Jack Frost .
As they waken , many begin to sing for joy .
But the clear , loud singer of all live in the Smiling Pool .
It be a long time before Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck know where they live .
Every night just before go to bed , Johnny Chuck would sit on his door-step just to listen , and a he listen somehow he felt well and happy ; and he always have pleasant dream after listen to the sweet singer of the Smiling Pool .
Even after he have curl himself up for the night deep down in his snug bedroom , he could hear those sweet voice , and whenever he wake up in the night he would hear them .
`` Spring !
Spring !
Spring !
Spring !
Beautiful , beautiful , beautiful Spring !
So gentle , so loving , so sweet and so fair !
Oh , who can be cross when there 's love in the air ?
Be happy !
Be joyful !
And join in our song And help u to send the glad tidings along !
Spring !
Spring !
Spring !
Spring !
Beautiful , beautiful , beautiful Spring ! ''
When Johnny Chuck have first hear them , he have look in all the tree - top for the singer , but not one could he see .
Then he have think that they must be hide in the bush ; but when he go to look , he find that the sweet singer be not there .
It be very mysterious .
Finally he ask Peter Rabbit if he know who the sweet singer be and where they be .
Peter do n't know , but he be willing to try to find out .
Peter be always willing to try to find out about thing he do n't already know about .
So Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit start out to find the sweet singer .
`` I believe they be down in the old bulrush around the Smiling Pool , '' say Peter Rabbit , a he stand listen with a hand behind one long ear .
So over to the Smiling Pool they hurry .
The nearer they get , the louder become the voice singing : `` Spring !
Spring !
Spring !
Spring !
Beautiful , beautiful , beautiful Spring ! ''
But look a they would , they could n't see a single singer among the brown bulrush .
It be very strange , very strange indeed !
It seem a if the voice come right out of the Smiling Pool itself !
When Peter Rabbit make a little noise , a he hop out on the bank where he could look all over the Smiling Pool , the singing stop .
After he have sit perfectly still for a little while , it begin again .
There be no doubt about it this time ; those voice come right out of the water .
Johnny Chuck star at Peter Rabbit , and Peter star at Johnny Chuck .
Nobody be to be see in the Smiling Pool , and yet there be those voice -- oh , so many of them -- come right out of the water .
`` How can bird stay under water and still sing ? ''
ask Johnny Chuck .
`` Ho , ho , ho !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck whirl around , to find Jerry Muskrat peep up at them from a hole in the bank almost under their foot .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Ho , ho , ho !
That 's the best joke this spring ! ''
shout Jerry Muskrat . -RSB-
`` Ho , ho , ho !
That 's the best joke this spring ! ''
shout Jerry Muskrat , and laugh until he have to hold his side .
`` Birds under water !
Ho , ho , ho ! ''
IV JOHNNY CHUCK FINDS OUT WHO THE SWEET SINGERS ARE Johnny Chuck could n't keep away from the Smiling Pool .
No , Sir , Johnny Chuck could n't keep away from the Smiling Pool .
Ever since he and Peter Rabbit have go over there look for the sweet singer , who every night and part of the day tell all who would listen how glad they be that Mistress Spring have come to the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , Johnny Chuck have have something on his mind .
And this be why he could n't keep away from the Smiling Pool .
You see it be this way : Johnny and Peter have think that of course the sweet singer be bird .
They have n't dream of anything else .
So of course they go look for bird .
When they reach the Smiling Pool , the voice come right out of the water .
Johnny know that some bird , like many of the cousin of Mrs. Quack , can stay under water a long time , and so he do n't know but some other bird might .
Jerry Muskrat be always watch for Johnny , whenever he come to the Smiling Pool , and his eye would twinkle a he would gravely say : `` Hello , Johnny Chuck !
Have you see the bird sing under water yet ? ''
Johnny would smile good-naturedly and reply : `` Not yet , Jerry Muskrat .
Wo n't you point them out to me ? ''
Then Jerry would reply : `` Two eye you have , bright a can be ; Perhaps some day you 'll learn to see . ''
Then Johnny Chuck would sit as still a ever he know how , and watch and watch the Smiling Pool , but not a bird do he see in the water , though the singer be still there .
One day a sudden thought pop into his head .
Perhaps those singer be not bird at all !
Why have n't he think of that before ?
Perhaps it be because he be look so hard for bird that he have n't see anything else .
Johnny begin to look , not for anything in particular , but to see everything that he could .
Almost right away he saw some tiny little dark spot on the water .
They do n't look like much of anything .
They be so small that he have n't notice them before .
One of them be quite close to him , and a Johnny Chuck look at it , it begin to look like a tiny nose , and then -- why , just then , Johnny be very sure that one of those singing voice come right from that very spot !
He be so surprised that he hop to his foot and excitedly beckon to Jerry Muskrat .
The instant he do that , the voice near him stop sing , and the little spot on the water disappear , leave just the tiny of little ring , just such tiny little ring a drop of rain fall on the Smiling Pool would make .
And when that tiny spot near to him that look like a tiny nose disappear , Johnny Chuck catch just a glimpse of a little form under the water .
`` Why -- why-e-e !
The singer be Grandfather Frog 's child ! ''
cry Johnny Chuck .
`` No , they 're not , but they be own cousin to them ; they be the grandchild of old Mr. Tree Toad !
and they be call Hylas ! ''
say Jerry Muskrat , laugh and rub his hand in great glee .
`` I tell you that if you use your eye , you 'd learn to see . ''
`` My , but they 've get voice big than they be ! ''
say Johnny Chuck , a he start home across the Green Meadows .
`` I 'm glad I know who the singer of the Smiling Pool be , and I must n't forget their name -- Hylas .
What a funny name ! ''
But Farmer Brown 's boy , listen to their song that evening , do n't call them Hylas .
He say : `` Hear the peeper !
Spring be surely here . ''
V JOHNNY CHUCK BECOMES DISSATISFIED Johnny Chuck be unhappy .
Here it be the glad springtime , when everybody be suppose to be the very happy , and Johnny Chuck be unhappy .
Why be he unhappy ?
Well , he hardly know himself .
He have sleep comfortably all the long winter .
He have awaken very , very hungry , but now he have plenty to eat .
All about him the bird be sing or busily at work build new home .
And still Johnny Chuck felt unhappy .
It be dreadful to feel this way and not have any good reason for it .
One bright morning Johnny Chuck sit on his door-step watch Drummer the Woodpecker build a new home in the old apple-tree .
Drummer 's red head fly back and forth , back and forth , and his sharp bill cut out tiny bit of wood .
It be slow work ; it be hard work .
But Drummer seem happy , very happy indeed .
It be watch Drummer that start Johnny Chuck to think about his own home .
He have always think it a very nice home .
He have build it just a he want it .
From the doorstep he could look in all direction over the Green Meadows .
It have a front door and a hidden back door .
Yes , it be a very nice home indeed .
But now , all of a sudden , Johnny Chuck become dissatisfied with his home .
It be too near the Lone Little Path .
Too many people know where it be .
It be n't big enough .
The front door ought to face the other way .
Dear me , what a surprising lot of fault a discontented heart can find with thing that have always be just right !
It be so with Johnny Chuck .
That house in which he have spend so many happy day , which have protect him from all harm , of which he have be so proud when he first build it , be now the mean house in the world .
If other people have new house , why should n't he ?
The more he think about it , the more dissatisfied and discontent he become and of course the more unhappy .
You know one can not be dissatisfy and discontent and happy at the same time .
Now dissatisfy and discontent people be not at all pleasant to have around .
Johnny Chuck have always be one of the best natured of all the little meadow people , and everybody like him .
So Jimmy Skunk do n't know quite what to make of it , when he come down the Lone Little Path and find Johnny Chuck so out of sort that he would n't even answer when speak to .
Jimmy Skunk be feel very good-natured himself .
He have just have a fine breakfast of fat beetle and he be at peace with all the world .
So he sit down beside Johnny Chuck and begin to talk , just a if Johnny Chuck be his usual good-natured self .
`` It 's a fine day , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
Johnny Chuck just sniff .
`` You 're look very fine , '' say Jimmy .
Johnny just scowl .
`` I think you 've get the best place on the Green Meadows for a house , '' say Jimmy , pretend to admire the view .
Johnny scowl hard than ever .
`` And such a splendid house ! ''
say Jimmy .
`` I wish I have one like it . ''
`` I 'm glad you like it !
You can have the old thing ! ''
snap Johnny Chuck .
`` What 's that ? ''
demand Jimmy Skunk , open his eye very wide .
`` I say that you can have it .
I 'm go to move , '' reply Johnny Chuck .
Now he really have n't think of move until that very minute .
And he do n't know why he have say it .
But he have say it , and because he be an obstinate little fellow he stick to it .
`` When can I move in ? ''
ask Jimmy Skunk , his eye twinkle .
`` Right away , if you want to , '' reply Johnny Chuck , and swagger off down the Lone Little Path , leave Jimmy Skunk to stare after him a if he think Johnny Chuck have suddenly go crazy , a indeed he do .
VI JOHNNY CHUCK TURNS TRAMP Johnny Chuck have turn tramp .
Yes , Sir , Johnny Chuck have turn tramp .
It be a funny thing to do , but he have do it .
He do n't know why he have do it , except that he have become dissatisfied and discontented and unhappy in his old home .
And then , almost without think what he be do , he have tell Jimmy Skunk that he could have the house he have work so hard to build the summer before and of which he have be so proud .
Then Johnny Chuck have swagger away down the Lone Little Path without once look back at the home he be leave .
Where be he go ?
Well , to tell the truth , Johnny do n't know .
He be go to see the world , and perhaps when he have see the world , he would build him a new house .
So as long a he be in sight of Jimmy Skunk , he swagger along quite a if he be use to travel about , without any snug house to go to at night .
But right down in his heart Johnny Chuck do n't feel half so bold a he pretend .
You see , not since he be a little Chuck and have run away from old Mother Chuck with Peter Rabbit , have he ever be very far from his own door-step .
He have always be content to grow fat and roly-poly right near his own home , and listen to the tale of the great world from Jimmy Skunk and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon and Unc ' Billy Possum , all of whom be great traveler .
But now , here he be , actually set forth , and without a home to come back to !
You see , he have make up his mind that no matter what happen , he would n't come back , after have give his house to Jimmy Skunk .
When he have reach a place where he think Jimmy Skunk could n't see him , Johnny Chuck turn and look back , and a queer little feeling seem to make a lump that fill his throat and choke him .
The fact be , Johnny Chuck already begin to feel homesick .
But he swallow very hard and try to make himself think that he be have a splendid time .
He stop look back and start on , and a he tramp along , he try to sing a song he have once hear Jimmy Skunk sing : `` The world may stretch full far and wide -- What matter that to me ?
I 'll tramp it up ; I 'll tramp it down !
For I be bold and free . ''
It be a very brave little song , but Johnny Chuck do n't feel half so brave and bold a he try to think he do .
Already he be begin to wonder where he should spend the night .
Then he think of old Whitetail the Marshhawk , who have give him such a fright and have so nearly catch him when he be a little fellow .
The thought make him look around hastily , and there be old Whitetail himself , sail back and forth hungrily just ahead of him .
A great fear take possession of Johnny Chuck , and he make himself as flat a possible in the grass , for there be no place to hide .
He make up his mind that anyway he would fight .
Nearer and nearer come old Whitetail !
Finally he pass right over Johnny Chuck .
But he do n't offer to touch him .
Indeed , it seem to Johnny that old Whitetail actually grin and wink at him .
And right then all his fear leave him .
`` Pooh ! ''
say Johnny Chuck scornfully .
`` Who 's afraid of him ! ''
He suddenly realize that he be no long a helpless little Chuck who could n't take care of himself , but big and strong , with sharp teeth with which his old enemy have no mind to make a close acquaintance , when there be mouse and snake to be catch without fight .
So he puff out his chest and go on , and actually begin to enjoy himself , and almost wish for a chance to show how big and strong he be .
VII JOHNNY 'S FIRST ADVENTURE After old Whitetail the Marshhawk pass Johnny Chuck without offer to touch him , Johnny begin to feel very brave and bold and important .
He strut and swagger along as much a his short leg would let him .
He hold his head very high .
Already he felt that he have have an adventure and he long for more .
He forget the terrible lonesome feeling of a little while before .
He forget that he have give away the only home he have .
He do n't know just why , but right down deep inside he have a sudden feeling that he really do n't care a thing about that old home .
In fact , he felt a if he would n't care if he never have another home .
Yes , Sir , that be the way that Johnny Chuck felt .
Do you know why ?
Just because he have just begin to realize how big and strong he really be .
Now it be a splendid thing to feel big and strong and brave , a very splendid thing !
But it be a bad thing to let that feel turn to pride , foolish pride .
Of course old Whitetail have n't really be afraid of Johnny Chuck .
He have simply pass Johnny with a wink , because there be plenty to eat without the trouble of fighting , and Whitetail do n't fight just for the fun of it .
But foolish Johnny Chuck really think that old Whitetail be afraid of him .
The more he think about it , the more tickle he felt and the more puffed up he felt .
He begin to talk to himself and to brag .
Yes , Sir , Johnny Chuck begin to brag : `` I 'm not afraid of any one ; They 're all afraid of me !
I only have to show my teeth To make them turn and flee ! ''
`` Pooh ! ''
say a voice .
`` Pooh !
It would take two like you to make me run away ! ''
Johnny Chuck give a startled jump .
There be a strange Chuck glaring at him from behind a little bunch of grass .
He be a big , gray old Chuck whom Johnny never have see on the Green Meadows before , and he do n't look the least bit afraid .
No , Sir , he do n't look the teeny , weeny bit afraid !
Somehow , Johnny Chuck do n't feel half so big and strong and brave a he have a few minute before .
But it would n't do to let this stranger know it .
Of course not !
So , though he felt very small inside , Johnny make all his hair bristle up and try to look very fierce .
`` Who be you and what be you do on my Green Meadows ? ''
he demand .
`` Your Green Meadows !
Your Green Meadows !
Ho , ho , ho !
Your Green Meadows ! ''
The stranger laugh an unpleasant laugh .
`` How long since you own the Green Meadows ?
I have just come down on to them from the Old Pasture , and I like the look of them so well that I think I will stay .
So run along , little boaster !
There be n't room for both of u here , and the sooner you trot along the good . ''
The stranger suddenly show all his teeth and grit them unpleasantly .
Now when Johnny Chuck hear this , great anger fill his heart .
A stranger have order him to leave the Green Meadows where he have be bear and always live !
He could hardly believe his own ear .
He , Johnny Chuck , would show this stranger who be master here !
With a squeal of rage , Johnny sprang at the gray old Chuck .
Then begin such a fight a the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind have never see before .
They dance around excitedly and cry : `` How dreadful ! ''
and hop that Johnny Chuck would win , for you know they love him very much .
Over and over the two little fighter roll , bite and scratch and tear and growl and snarl .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun hide his face behind a cloud , so a not to see such a dreadful sight .
The stranger have be in many fight and he be very crafty .
For a while Johnny felt that he be get the bad of it , and he begin to wonder if he really would have to leave the Green Meadows .
The very thought fill him with new rage and he fight hard than ever .
Now the stranger be old and his teeth be wear , while Johnny be young and his teeth be very sharp .
After a long , long time , Johnny felt the stranger grow weak .
Johnny fight hard than ever .
At last the stranger cry `` Enough ! ''
and when he could break away , start back towards the Old Pasture .
Johnny Chuck have win !
VIII JOHNNY HAS ANOTHER ADVENTURE Johnny Chuck lay stretch out on the cool , soft grass of the Green Meadows , pant for breath .
He be very tired and very sore .
His face be scratch and bite .
His clothes be tear , and he smart dreadfully in a dozen place .
But still Johnny Chuck be happy .
When he raise his head to look , he could see a gray old Chuck limp off towards the Old Pasture .
Once in a while the gray old Chuck would turn his head and show his teeth , but he keep right on towards the Old Pasture .
Johnny Chuck smile .
It have be a great fight , and more than once Johnny Chuck have think that he should have to give up .
He think of this now , and then he think with shame of how he have brag and boast just before the fight .
What if he have lose ?
He resolve that he would never again brag or boast .
But he also make up his mind that if any one should pick a quarrel with him , he would show that he be n't afraid .
It be get late in the afternoon when Johnny finally felt rest enough to go on .
He have get to find a place to spend the night .
He hobble along , for he be very stiff and sore , until he come to the edge of the Green Meadows , where they meet the Green Forest .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun be almost ready to go down to his bed behind the Purple Hills .
Shadows be already begin to creep through the Green Forest .
Somehow they give Johnny Chuck that same lonesome feeling that he have have when he first leave his old home .
You see he have always live out in the Green Meadows and somehow he be afraid of the Green Forest in the night .
So , instead of go into the Green Forest , he wander along the edge of it , look for a place in which to spend the night .
At last he come to a hollow log lie just out on the edge of the Green Meadows .
Very carefully Johnny Chuck examine it , to be sure that no one else be use it .
`` It 's just the place I 'm look for ! ''
he say aloud .
Just then there be a sharp hiss , a very fierce hiss .
Johnny Chuck felt the hair on his neck rise a it always do when he hear that hiss , and he be n't at all surprised , when he turn his head , to find Mr. Blacksnake close by .
Mr. Blacksnake glide swiftly up to the old log and coil himself in front of the opening .
Then he raise his head and run out his tongue in the most impudent way .
`` Run along , Johnny Chuck !
I 've decide to sleep here myself to-night ! ''
he say sharply .
Now when Johnny Chuck be a very little fellow , he have be in great fear of Mr. Blacksnake , a he have have reason to be .
And because he do n't know any good , he have be afraid ever since .
Mr. Blacksnake know this and so now he look as ugly a he know how .
But you see he do n't know about the great fight that Johnny Chuck have just win .
Now to win an honest fight always make one feel very strong and very sure of oneself .
Johnny look at Mr. Blacksnake and saw that Mr. Blacksnake do n't look half as big a Johnny have always think he do .
He make up his mind that a he have find the old log first , he have the best right to it .
`` I find it first and I 'm go to keep it ! ''
snap Johnny Chuck , and with every hair on end and grit his teeth , he walk straight towards Mr. Blacksnake .
Now Mr. Blacksnake be a great bluffer , while at heart he be really a coward .
With a fierce hiss he rush right at Johnny Chuck , expect to see him turn tail and run .
But Johnny stand his ground and show all his sharp teeth .
Instead of attack Johnny , Mr. Blacksnake glide past him and sneak away through the grass .
Johnny Chuck chuckle a he creep into the hollow log .
`` Only a coward run away without fight , '' he murmur sleepily .
IX ANOTHER STRANGE CHUCK Johnny Chuck awoke just a jolly , round , red Mr. Sun pull his own nightcap off .
At first Johnny could n't think where he be .
He blink and blink .
Then he roll over .
`` Ouch ! ''
cry Johnny Chuck .
You see he be so stiff and sore from his great fight the day before , that it hurt to roll over .
But when he felt the smart of those wound , he remember where he be .
He be in the old hollow log that he have find on the edge of the Green Meadows just before dark .
It be the first time that Johnny have ever sleep anywhere , except underground , and a he lay blink his eye , it seem very strange and rather nice , too .
`` Well , well , well !
What be you do here ? ''
cry a sharp voice .
Johnny Chuck look towards the open end of the old log .
There , peep in , be a little face as sharp a the voice .
`` Hello , Chatterer ! ''
cry Johnny .
`` I say , what be you do here ? ''
persist Chatterer the Red Squirrel , for it be he .
`` Just wake up , '' reply Johnny , with a grin .
`` It 's time , '' reply Chatterer .
`` But that be n't tell me what you be do so far from home . ''
`` I have n't any home , '' say Johnny , his face grow just a wee bit wistful .
`` You have n't any home ! ''
Chatterer 's voice sound a if he do n't think he have hear aright .
`` What have you do with it ? ''
`` Given it to Jimmy Skunk , '' reply Johnny Chuck .
Now Chatterer never give anything to anybody , and how any one could give away his home be more than he could understand .
He star at Johnny a if he think Johnny have go crazy .
Finally he find his tongue .
`` I do n't believe it ! ''
he snap .
`` If Jimmy Skunk have get your old home , it 's because he put you out of it . ''
`` No such thing !
I 'd like to see Jimmy Skunk or anybody else put me out of my home ! ''
Johnny Chuck speak scornfully .
`` I give it to him because I do n't want it any longer .
I 'm go to see the world , and then I 'm go to build me a new home .
Everybody else seem to be build new home this spring ; why should n't I ? ''
`` I 'm not ! ''
retort Chatterer .
`` I know enough to know when I be well off .
`` Who have a discontented heart Is sure to play a sorry part . ''
Johnny Chuck crawl out of the old log and stretch himself somewhat painfully .
`` That may be , but there be different kind of discontent .
Who never look for good thing Will live his life in little ring .
Well , I must be move along , if I be to see the world . ''
So Johnny Chuck bid Chatterer good-by and start on .
It be very delightful to wander over the Green Meadows on such a beautiful spring morning .
The violet and the wind-flowers nod to him , and the dandelion smile up at him .
Johnny almost forget his torn clothes and the bite and scratch of his great fight with the gray old Chuck the day before .
It be fun to just go where he please and not have a care in the world .
He be think of this , a he sit up to look over the Green Meadows .
His heart give a great throb .
What be that over near the lone elm - tree ?
It be -- yes , it certainly be another Chuck !
Could it be the old gray Chuck come back for another fight ?
A great anger fill the heart of Johnny Chuck , and he whistle sharply .
The strange Chuck do n't answer .
Johnny grind his teeth and start for the lone elm-tree .
He would show this other Chuck who be master of the Green Meadows !
X WHY JOHNNY CHUCK DID N'T FIGHT Anger be an awful thing ; It never stop to reason .
It boil right over all at once , No matter what the season .
It be so with Johnny Chuck .
The minute he catch sight of the strange Chuck over by the lone elm-tree , anger fill his heart and fairly boil over , until he be in a terrible rage .
Of course it be foolish , very foolish indeed .
The strange Chuck have n't say or do anything to make Johnny Chuck angry , not the least thing in the world , except to come down on to the Green Meadows .
Now the Green Meadows be very broad , and there be room for many Chucks .
It be pure selfishness on the part of Johnny Chuck to want to drive away every other Chuck .
But anger never stop to reason .
It do n't now .
Johnny Chuck hurry a fast a his short leg could take him towards the lone elm-tree , and in his mind be just one thought -- to drive that strange Chuck off the Green Meadows and to punish him so that he never , never would dare even think of come back .
So great be Johnny 's anger that every hair stand on end , and a he run he chatter and scold .
`` I 'll fix him !
These be my Green Meadows , and no one else have any business here unless I say so !
I 'll fix him !
I 'll fix him ! ''
Then Johnny would grind his teeth , and in his eye be the ugly look .
He be n't nice to see , not a bit nice .
The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind do n't know what to make of him .
Could this be the Johnny Chuck they have know so long , the good-natured , happy Johnny Chuck whom everybody love ?
They draw away from him , for they do n't want anything to do with any one in such a frightful temper .
But Johnny Chuck do n't even notice , and if he have he would n't have care .
That be the trouble with anger .
It crowd out everything else , when it once fill the heart .
When Johnny have first see the stranger , he have think right away that it be the old gray Chuck with whom he have have such a terrible fight the day before and whom he whip .
Perhaps that be one reason for Johnny Chuck 's terrible anger now , for the old gray Chuck have try to drive Johnny Chuck off the Green Meadows .
But when he have to stop for breath and sit up to look again , he saw that it be n't the old gray Chuck at all .
It be a young Chuck and much small than the old gray Chuck .
It be small than Johnny himself .
`` He 'll be all the easy to whip , '' mutter Johnny , a he start on again , never once think of how unfair it would be to fight with one small than himself .
That be because he be so angry .
Anger never be fair .
Pretty soon he reach the lone elm-tree .
The stranger be n't to be see !
No , Sir , the stranger be n't anywhere in sight .
Johnny Chuck sit up and look this way and look that way , but the stranger be nowhere in sight .
`` Pooh ! ''
say Johnny Chuck , `` He 's afraid to fight !
He 's a coward .
But he ca n't get away from me so easily .
He 's hiding , and I 'll find him and then -- '' Johnny do n't finish , but he grind his teeth , and it be n't a pleasant sound to hear .
So Johnny Chuck hunt for the stranger , and the longer he hunt the angrier he grow .
Somehow the stranger manage to keep out of his sight .
He be almost ready to give up , when he almost stumble over the stranger , hide in a little clump of bush .
And then a funny thing happen .
What do you think it be ?
Why , all the anger leave Johnny Chuck .
His hair no longer stand on end .
He do n't know why , but all of a sudden he felt foolish , very foolish indeed .
`` Who be you ? ''
he demand gruffly .
`` I -- I 'm Polly Chuck , '' reply the stranger , in a small , timid voice .
XI THE GREATEST THING IN THE WORLD Johnny Chuck have begin to think about his clothes .
Yes , Sir , he spend a whole lot of time think about how he look and wish that he have a handsomer coat .
For the first time in all his life he begin to envy Reddy Fox , because of the beautiful red coat of which Reddy be so proud .
It seem to Johnny that his own coat be so plain and so dull that no one would look at it twice .
Besides , it be tear now , because of the great fight Johnny have have with the old gray Chuck who come down from the Old Pasture .
Johnny smooth it down and brush it carefully and try to make himself look a spick and span a he know how .
`` Oh , dear ! ''
he sigh .
`` I do n't see why Old Mother Nature do n't give me a handsome a coat a she do Reddy Fox .
And there be Jimmy Skunk and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel and -- and -- why , almost every one have a handsomer coat than I have ! ''
Now this be n't at all like Johnny Chuck .
First he have be discontent with his house and have give it to Jimmy Skunk .
Now he be discontent with his clothes .
What be come over Johnny Chuck ?
He really do n't know himself .
At least , he would n't have admit that he know .
But right down deep in his heart be a great desire -- the desire to have Polly Chuck admire him .
Yes , Sir , that be what it be !
And it seem to him that she would admire him a great deal more if he wear fine clothes .
You see , he have n't learn yet what Peter Rabbit have learn a long time ago , which be that Fine clothes but catch the passing eye ; Fine deeds win love from low and high .
So Johnny Chuck wish and wish that he have a handsome suit , but a he do n't , and no amount of wish would bring him one , he just make the one he do have look as good a he could , and then go in search of Polly Chuck .
Sometimes she would not notice him at all .
Sometimes he would find her shyly peeping at him from behind a clump of grass .
Then Johnny Chuck would try to make himself look very important , and would strut about as if he really do own the Green Meadows .
Sometimes she would hide from him , and when he find her she would run away .
Other time she would be just a nice to him a she could be , and they would have a jolly time hunt for sweet clover and other nice thing to eat .
Then Johnny Chuck 's heart would swell until it seem to him that it would fairly burst with happiness .
Instead of want to drive Polly Chuck away from the Green Meadows , a he have the old gray Chuck , Johnny begin to worry for fear that Polly Chuck might not stay on the Green Meadows .
Whenever he think of that , his heart would sink way , way down , and he would hurry to look for her and make sure that she be still there .
When he be beside her , he felt very big and strong and brave and long for a chance to show her how brave he be .
She be such a timid little thing herself that the least little thing frighten her , and Johnny Chuck be glad that this be so , for it give him a chance to protect her .
When he be n't with her , he spend his time look for new patch of sweet clover to take her to .
At first she would n't go without a great deal of coaxing , but after a while he do n't have to coax at all .
She seem to delight to be with him as much a he do to be with her .
So Johnny Chuck grow happy and happy .
He be happy than he have ever be in all his life before .
You see Johnny Chuck have find the great thing in the world .
Do you know what it be ?
It be call love .
XII JOHNNY CHUCK PROVES HIS LOVE These spring day be beautiful day on the Green Meadows .
It seem to Johnny Chuck that the Green Meadows never have be so lovely or the song of the bird so sweet .
He have forget all about his old friend , Jimmy Skunk and Peter Rabbit and the other little meadow people .
You see , he could n't think of anybody but Polly Chuck , and he do n't want to be with anybody but Polly Chuck .
He have even forget that he have start out to see the world .
He do n't care anything more about the world .
All he want be to be where Polly Chuck be .
Then he be perfectly happy .
That be because Johnny Chuck have find the great thing in the world , which be love .
But Johnny still have one great wish , the wish that he might show Polly Chuck just how brave and strong he be and how well he could take care of her .
One morning they be feast in a patch of sweet clover over near an old stone wall .
It be the same stone wall in which Johnny Chuck have escape from old Whitetail the Marshhawk , when Johnny be a very little fellow .
Suddenly Polly give a little scream of fright .
Johnny Chuck look up to see a dog almost upon her .
Johnny 's first thought be to run to the old stone wall .
He be nearer to it than Polly be .
Then he saw that that dreadful dog would catch Polly before she could reach the stone wall .
A great rage fill Johnny 's heart , just a it have when he have fight the old gray Chuck .
Every hair stand on end , not with fear , but with anger , and he spring in front of Polly .
`` Run , Polly , run ! ''
he cry , and Polly run .
But Johnny do n't run .
Oh , my , no !
Johnny do n't run .
He draw himself together ready to spring .
He show all his sharp teeth and grind them savagely .
Little spark of fire seem to snap out of his eye .
There be no sign of fear in Johnny Chuck then , not the least little bit .
Just in front of him the dog stop and bark .
He be a little dog , a young and foolish dog , and he be terribly excite .
He bark until he almost lose his breath .
He do n't like the look of Johnny Chuck 's sharp teeth .
So he circle around Johnny , try to get behind him .
But Johnny turn a the dog circle , and always the little dog find those sharp teeth directly in front of him .
He bark and bark , until it seem a if he would bark his head off .
Finally the little dog , who be young and foolish , grow tire of just dance around and bark .
`` Pooh ! ''
say he to himself .
`` He 's nothing but a Chuck ! ''
Then he stop bark and sprang straight at Johnny with an ugly growl .
Johnny Chuck be ready for him and he be quick than the little dog .
His sharp teeth close on one of the little dog 's ear , and he hold on while with his stout claw he scratch and tore .
The little dog , who be young and foolish and have n't yet learn how to fight , could n't get hold of Johnny Chuck anywhere .
Then he try to shake Johnny Chuck off , but he could n't , because Johnny hold on to that ear with his sharp teeth .
`` Kiyi-yi-yi-yi ! ''
yell the little dog , for those teeth hurt dreadfully .
`` Kiyi-yi-yi-yi ! ''
Over and over they roll and tumble , the little dog try to get away , and Johnny Chuck hold on to the little dog 's ear .
Finally Johnny have to let go to get his breath .
The little dog sprang to his foot and start for home across the Green Meadows as fast a he could run .
Johnny Chuck shake himself and grin , a he hear the little dog 's `` Kiyi-yi-yi '' grow fainter and fainter .
`` I 'm glad it be n't Bowser the Hound , '' mutter Johnny Chuck , a he start towards the old stone wall .
There he find Polly Chuck peep out at him , and all of a tremble with fright .
`` My , how brave you be ! ''
say Polly Chuck .
`` Pooh , that 's nothing ! ''
reply Johnny Chuck .
XIII POLLY AND JOHNNY CHUCK GO HOUSE HUNTING Johnny Chuck be happy .
Yes , Sir , Johnny Chuck be happy -- so happy that he felt like do foolish thing .
You see Johnny Chuck love Polly Chuck and he know now that Polly Chuck love him .
He have know it ever since he have fight with the foolish little dog who have dare to frighten Polly Chuck .
After the fight be over , and the little dog have be send home kiyi - yi-ing , Polly Chuck have creep out of the old stone wall where she have be hide and snuggle up beside Johnny Chuck and look at him a if she think him the most wonderful Chuck in all the world , a , indeed , she do .
And Johnny have felt his heart swell and swell with happiness until it almost choke him .
So now once more Johnny Chuck begin to think of a new home .
He have forget all about see the world .
All he want now be a new house , build just so , with a front door and a hidden back door , and big enough for two , for no more would Johnny Chuck live alone .
So , with shy little Polly Chuck by his side , he begin to search for a place to make a new home .
The more he think about it , the more Johnny want to build his house over by the lone elm-tree where he have first see Polly Chuck .
It be a splendid place .
From it you could see a great way in every direction .
It would be shady on hot summer day .
It be near a great big patch of sweet clover .
It seem to Johnny Chuck that it be the best place on all the Green Meadows .
He whisper as much to Polly Chuck .
She turn up her nose .
`` It 's too low ! ''
say she .
`` Oh ! ''
reply Johnny , and look puzzle , for really it be one of the high place on the Green Meadows .
`` Yes , '' say Polly , in a brisk , decide way , `` it 's altogether too low .
Probably it be wet . ''
`` Oh ! ''
say Johnny once more .
Of course he know that it be n't wet , but if Polly do n't want to live there , he would n't say a word .
Of course not .
`` Now there 's a place right over there , '' continue Polly .
`` I think we 'll build our house right there . ''
Johnny open his mouth to say something , but he close it again without speaking and meekly trot after Polly Chuck to the place she have pick out .
It be in a little hollow .
Johnny know before he begin to dig that the ground be damp , almost wet .
But if Polly want to live there she should , and Johnny begin to dig .
By and by he stop to rest .
Where be Polly ?
He look this way and that way anxiously .
Just a he be get ready to go hunt for her , she come hurry back .
-LSB- Illustration : If Polly want to live there she should -RSB- `` I 've find a perfectly lovely place for our new home ! ''
she cry .
Johnny look ruefully at the hole he have work so hard to dig ; then he brush the dirt from his clothes and follow her .
This time Johnny have no fault to find with the ground .
It be high and dry .
But Polly have choose a spot close to a road that wind down across the Green Meadows .
Johnny shake his head doubtfully , but he begin to dig .
This time , however , he keep one eye on Polly Chuck , and the minute he find that she be wander off , he stop dig and chuckle a he watch her .
It be n't long before back she come in great excitement .
She have find a good place !
So they wander over the Green Meadows , Polly lead the way .
Johnny have learn by this time to waste no time dig .
And he have make up his mind to one thing .
What do you think it be ?
It be this : He would follow Polly until she find a place to suit him , but when she do find such a place she should n't have a chance to change her mind again .
XIV A NEW HOME AT LAST Home , no matter where it be , Or it be big or small , Is just the one place in the world That dearest be of all .
Johnny Chuck be think of this a he work with might and main .
It be a new house that he be build , but already he felt that it be home , and every time he think of it he felt a queer little tugging at his heart .
You see , while it be his home , it be Polly Chuck 's home , too , and that make it doubly dear to Johnny Chuck , even before it be finish .
And where do you think Johnny be build his new home ?
It be clear way over on the edge of Farmer Brown 's old orchard !
Yes , Sir , after all the fuss Johnny Chuck have make over any other Chuck living on the Green Meadows , and after drive the old gray Chuck back to the Old Pasture , Johnny Chuck have leave the Green Meadows himself !
It be n't of his own accord that Johnny Chuck have leave the Green Meadows .
No , indeed !
He love them too well for that .
But he love Polly Chuck more , and although he have grumble a little , he have follow her up to the old orchard , and now they be go to stay there .
Sometimes Johnny shiver when he think how near be Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound .
He have never be so far from his old home on the Green Meadows before , and it be all very strange up here .
It be very lovely , too .
Besides , it be in this very old orchard that Polly Chuck have be bear , and she know every part of it .
Johnny felt well when he find that out .
So he set to work to build a home , and this time he mean business .
Polly Chuck could change her mind a many time a she please ; that be go to be their home and that be where they be go to live .
Now Johnny Chuck have grow wise in the way of the world since he first run away from the home where he be bear .
Twice since then he have build a new home , and now this would be good than either of the others .
He pay no heed to Polly , when she pout because he do not dig where she want him to .
He go from tree to tree , big old apple - tree they be , and at the very last tree , way down in a corner near a tumbled-down stone wall , he find what he want -- two spread root give him a chance to dig between them .
Polly watch him get ready for work and she pout some more .
`` It would be a lot nicer out in that grassy place , and a lot easy to dig , '' say she .
Johnny Chuck smile and make the dirt fly .
`` It certainly would be easy to dig , '' say he , when he stop for breath , `` easy for me and easy for Bowser the Hound or for old Granny Fox , if either want to dig u out .
Now , these old root be just far enough apart for u to go in and out .
They make a beautiful doorway .
But Bowser the Hound can not get through if he try , and he ca n't make our doorway any large .
Do n't you see how safe it be ? ''
Polly Chuck have to own up that it be safe than a home in the open could possibly be , and Johnny go on digging .
He make a long hall down to the snuggest of bedroom , deep , deep down under ground .
Then he make a long back hall , and all the sand from this he carry out the front way .
By and by he make a back door at the end of the back hall , and it open right behind a big stone fall from the old stone wall .
You would never have guess that there be a back door there .
His new house be finish now , and Johnny Chuck and Polly Chuck sit on the door-step and watch jolly , round , red Mr. Sun go to bed behind the Purple Hills and be happy .
XV SAMMY JAY FINDS THE NEW HOME Johnny Chuck be miss from his old home on the Green Meadows .
If he have know how much he be miss , he certainly would have try to go back for at least a call on his old neighbor .
There have be great surprise when it have be discover that Jimmy Skunk be live in Johnny 's old house , and at first some of the little meadow people be incline to look at Jimmy a wee bit distrustfully when he tell how Johnny Chuck have give away his house .
When Johnny send back word by the Merry Little Breezes that it be true , they believe Jimmy Skunk and forget the unpleasant thing that they have begin to hint at about him .
But they one and all think that Johnny Chuck must be crazy .
Yes , Sir , they think that Johnny Chuck must be crazy .
They be sure of it when the Merry Little Breezes bring word of how Johnny have start out to see the world .
But everybody be so busy about their own affair in the beautiful bright spring-time that they could n't spend much time wonder about Johnny Chuck .
They miss him every time they pass his old house and then forget him ; that be , most of the little meadow people do .
Peter Rabbit do n't .
Peter use to stop every day to gossip with Johnny Chuck and tell him all the news , and now that Johnny Chuck be no long there , Peter miss him greatly .
Jimmy Skunk be always asleep or off somewhere .
Besides , he be such a traveler that he know all the news almost as soon a Peter himself .
The Merry Little Breezes tell Peter that Johnny Chuck be still on the Green Meadows , hunt for a new home , so Peter make up his mind that just as soon a Johnny get settle , Peter would hunt him up and call .
You see , he never dream that Johnny would leave the Green Meadows , and he think that of course the Merry Little Breezes would tell him just where Johnny Chuck 's new house be , whenever it be build .
But there be where Peter make a mistake .
The Merry Little Breezes be the friend of all the little meadow and forest people , but they would n't be very long if they tell everything that they find out .
Their merry tongue they guard full well And thing they should n't never tell , For long ago they learn the way To keep a secret night and day .
And so when they find Johnny Chuck 's new house in the corner of Farmer Brown 's old orchard , they promise Johnny that they would n't tell anybody , and they do n't .
So it be a long time before any one else find out what have become of Johnny Chuck , for no one thought of look in the corner of the old orchard .
The Merry Little Breezes use to come every day and bring Johnny Chuck the news , and he and Polly Chuck would laugh and tickle , a they think of Peter Rabbit hunting and hunting and never find them .
Then one morning , a Johnny Chuck sit on his door-step , half dozing in the sun with his heart fill with contentment , he happen to look up straight into two sharp eye peer down at him from among the leaf of the apple-tree under which he have build his house .
He know those eye .
They be such sharp eye that they be unpleasant .
He do n't even have to look for the blue and white coat of the owner to know who have find his snug home .
But he pretend to keep right on dozing , and pretty soon the owner of the eye disappear without make a sound .
`` Oh , dear , '' sigh Johnny Chuck , `` now the whole world will know where we live , for that be Sammy Jay . ''
Then his face brighten a he add : `` Anyway , he do n't see Polly Chuck , and he do n't know anything about her , so I 'll keep twice as sharp a watch a before . ''
XVI SAMMY JAY PLANS MISCHIEF Mischief may not mean to be really truly bad , But somehow it seem to make other people sad ; Does a mean unpleasant thing and try to think it fun ; Then , ala , it run away when trouble have begin .
Of all the little people who live in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows , none be more mischievous than Sammy Jay .
It seem sometimes a if there be more mischief under that pert little cap Sammy Jay wear than in the head of all the other little meadow and forest people put together .
When he be n't actually in mischief , Sammy Jay be plan mischief .
You see it have grow to be a habit with Sammy Jay , and habit , especially bad habit , have a way of grow and grow .
Now Sammy Jay have no quarrel with Johnny Chuck .
Oh , my , no !
He would have tell you that he like Johnny Chuck .
Everybody like Johnny Chuck .
But just as soon a Sammy Jay find Johnny Chuck 's new house , he begin to plan mischief .
He do n't really want any harm to come to Johnny Chuck , but he want to make Johnny uncomfortable .
That be Sammy Jay 's idea of fun -- see somebody else uncomfortable .
So he slip away to a thick hemlock-tree in the Green Forest to try to think of some plan to tease Johnny Chuck and make him uncomfortable .
Of course he know that Johnny have hide his new house in the corner of Farmer Brown 's old orchard because he want it to be a secret .
He do n't know why Johnny want it a secret and he do n't care .
If Johnny want it a secret , it would be fun to tell everybody about it .
As he sit wonder who he should tell first ; he saw Reddy Fox trot down the Lone Little Path .
`` Hi , Reddy Fox ! ''
he shout .
Reddy look up .
`` Hello , Sammy Jay !
What have you get on your mind this morning ? ''
say Reddy .
`` Nothing much , '' reply Sammy Jay .
`` What 's the news ? ''
Reddy grin .
`` There be n't any news , '' say he .
`` I be just go to ask you the same thing . ''
It be Sammy Jay 's turn to grin , `` Just a if I could tell you any news , Reddy Fox !
Just a if I could tell you any news ! ''
he exclaim .
`` Why , everybody know that you be so smart that you find out everything as soon a it happen . ''
Reddy Fox felt flatter .
You know people who do a great deal of flatter themselves be often the very easy to flatter if you know how .
Reddy pretend to be very modest ; but no one like to be think smart and important more than Reddy Fox do , and it please him greatly that Sammy Jay should think him so smart that no one could tell him any news .
Sammy know this perfectly well , and he chuckle to himself a he watch Reddy Fox pretend to be so modest .
`` Have you call on Johnny Chuck at his new home yet ? ''
ask Sammy Jay , in the most matter-of-fact way .
`` No , '' reply Reddy , `` but I mean to , soon . ''
He say this just a if he know all about Johnny Chuck 's new home , when all the time he have n't the remote idea in the world where it be .
In fact he have hunt and hunt for it , but have n't find a trace of it .
And all the time Sammy Jay know that Reddy do n't know where it be .
But Sammy do n't let on that he know .
`` I just happen to be up in Farmer Brown 's old orchard this morning , so I think I 'd pay Johnny Chuck a call , '' say Sammy , and chuckle a he saw Reddy 's ear prick up .
`` By the way , he think you do n't know where he live now . ''
`` Huh ! ''
say Reddy Fox .
`` As if Johnny Chuck could fool me !
Well , I must be move along .
Good-by , Sammy Jay . ''
Reddy trot off towards the Green Meadows , but the minute he be out of sight of Sammy Jay , he turn towards Farmer Brown 's old orchard , just a Sammy Jay have know he would .
`` I guess Johnny Chuck will have a visitor , '' chuckle Sammy Jay , a he start to look for Jimmy Skunk .
XVII MORE MISCHIEF Mischief 's like a snowball Sent roll down a hill ; With every turn it big grows And big , big still .
Sammy Jay have start mischief by tell Reddy Fox where Johnny Chuck 's new house be .
If you have ask him , Sammy Jay would have say that he have n't tell .
All he have say be that he have happen to be up in Farmer Brown 's old orchard and so have call on Johnny Chuck in his new house .
Now Reddy Fox be very sly , oh , very sly .
He have pretend to Sammy Jay that he know all the time where Johnny Chuck be live .
When he leave Sammy Jay , he have start in the direction of the Green Meadows , just a if he have no thought of go over to Farmer Brown 's old orchard .
But Sammy Jay be just as sly a Reddy Fox .
He be n't fool for one minute , not one little minute .
He chuckle to himself a he start to look for Jimmy Skunk .
Then he change his mind .
`` I think I 'll go up to the old orchard myself ! ''
say Sammy Jay , and away he fly .
He get there first and hid in the top of a big apple-tree , where he could see all that go on .
It be n't long before he saw Reddy Fox steal out from the Green Forest and over to the old orchard .
Reddy be nervous , very nervous .
You see , it be broad daylight , and the old orchard be very near Farmer Brown 's house .
Reddy know that he ought to have wait until night , but he know that then Johnny Chuck would be fast asleep , Now , perhaps , Johnny Chuck , think that no one know where he live , would not be on watch , and he might be able to catch Johnny .
So Reddy , with one eye on Farmer Brown 's house and one eye on the watch for some sign of Johnny Chuck , stole into the old orchard .
Every few step he would stop and look and listen .
At every little noise he would start nervously .
Then Sammy Jay would chuckle under his breath .
So Reddy Fox crept and tiptoed about through the old orchard .
Every minute he grow more nervous , and every minute he grow more disappointed , for he could find no sign of Johnny Chuck 's house .
He begin to think that Sammy Jay have fool him , and the very thought make him grind his teeth .
At last he decide to give it up .
He be down in the far corner of the old orchard , close by the old stone wall now , and he get all ready to jump over the old stone wall , when he just happen to look on the other side of the big apple-tree he be under , and there be what he be look for -- Johnny Chuck 's new house !
Johnny Chuck be n't in sight , but there be the new house , and Johnny must be either inside or not far away .
Reddy grin .
It be a sly , wicked , hungry grin .
He flatten himself out in the grass behind the big apple-tree .
`` I 'll give Johnny Chuck the surprise of his life ! ''
mutter Reddy Fox under his breath .
Now Sammy Jay have be watch all this time .
He know that Johnny Chuck be safely inside his house , for Johnny have see Reddy when he first come into the old orchard .
And Sammy know that Johnny Chuck know that when Reddy find that new house , he would hide just a he have do .
`` Johnny Chuck wo n't come out again to-day , and there wo n't be any excitement at all , '' think Sammy Jay in disappointment , for he have hop to see a fight between Reddy Fox and Johnny Chuck .
Just then Sammy look over to Farmer Brown 's house , and there be Farmer Brown 's boy get ready to saw wood .
The imp of mischief under Sammy 's pert cap give him an idea .
He fly over to the old apple-tree , just over Reddy 's head , and begin to scream at the top of his lung .
Farmer Brown 's boy stop work and look over towards the old orchard .
`` When a jay scream like that there be usually a fox around , '' he mutter , a he unfasten Bowser the Hound .
XVIII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY MAKES A DISCOVERY Reddy Fox glare up at Sammy Jay .
`` What 's the matter with you ? ''
snarl Reddy Fox .
`` Why do n't you mind your own affair , instead of make trouble for other people ? ''
You see , Reddy be afraid that Johnny Chuck would hear Sammy Jay and take warning .
`` Hello , Reddy Fox !
I think you have go down to the Green Meadows ! ''
Sammy say this a if he be very much surprise to see Reddy there .
He be n't , for you know he have be watch Reddy hunt for Johnny Chuck 's new house , but Reddy have pretend that he be go down to the Green Meadows early that morning , and so now Sammy pretend that he have think that Reddy really have go .
`` I change my mind ! ''
he snap .
`` What be you scream so for ? ''
`` Just to exercise my lung , so a to be sure that I can scream when I want to , '' reply Sammy , scream still louder .
`` Well , go somewhere else and scream ; I want to sleep , '' say Reddy crossly .
Now Sammy Jay know perfectly well that Reddy Fox have no thought of take a nap but be hide there to try to catch Johnny Chuck .
And Sammy know that Farmer Brown 's boy could hear him scream , and that he know that when Sammy scream that way it mean there be a fox about .
Sitting in the top of the apple-tree , Sammy could see Farmer Brown 's boy starting for the old orchard , with Bowser the Hound run ahead of him .
Farmer Brown 's boy have no gun , so Sammy know that no harm would come to Reddy , but that Reddy would get a dreadful scare ; and that be what Sammy want , just out of pure mischief .
So he scream louder than ever .
Reddy Fox lose his temper .
He sit up and call Sammy Jay all the bad name he could think of .
He forget where he be .
He tell Sammy Jay what he think of him and what he would do to him if ever he catch him .
Sammy Jay keep right on scream .
He make such a noise that Reddy do n't hear footstep come nearer and nearer .
Suddenly there be a great roar right behind him .
`` Bow , wow , wow !
Bow , wow , wow , wow ! ''
-- just like that .
Reddy be so frightened that he do n't even look to see where he be jump , and bump his head against the apple-tree .
Then he start for the Green Forest , with Bowser the Hound at his heel .
Sammy Jay laugh till he lose his breath and nearly tumble off his perch .
Then he fly away , still laugh .
He think it the great joke ever .
Farmer Brown 's boy have follow Bowser the Hound into the old orchard .
`` I wonder what a fox be do up here in broad daylight , '' say he , talk to himself .
`` Perhaps one of my hen have steal her nest down here , and he have find it .
I 'll have a look , anyway . ''
So he walk on down to the far corner of the old orchard , straight to the place from which he have see Reddy Fox jump .
When he get there , of course he saw Johnny Chuck 's new house right away .
`` Ho ! ''
cry Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Brer Fox be hunt Chucks .
I 'll keep my eye on this , and if Mr. Chuck make any trouble in my garden , I 'll know where to catch him . ''
XIX JOHNNY CHUCK 'S PRIDE Ever since Farmer Brown 's boy and Reddy Fox have find his new house in the far corner of the old orchard , Johnny Chuck have be worry .
It be not that he be afraid for himself .
Oh , my , no !
Johnny Chuck felt perfectly able to take care of himself .
But there be Polly Chuck !
He be terribly afraid that something might happen to Polly Chuck .
You see she be not big and strong like him , and then Polly Chuck be apt to be careless .
So for a while Johnny Chuck worry a great deal .
But Reddy Fox do n't come again in daytime .
You see Bowser the Hound have give him such a scare that he do n't dare to .
He sometimes come at night and sniff hungrily at Johnny Chuck 's doorway , but Johnny and Polly be safe inside , and this do n't trouble them a bit .
And Farmer Brown 's boy seem to have forget all about the new house .
So after a while Johnny Chuck stop worry so much .
The fact be Johnny Chuck have something else to think about .
He have a secret .
Yes , Sir , Johnny Chuck have a secret .
Sammy Jay come up to the old orchard almost every morning .
His sharp eye be not long in find out that Johnny Chuck have a secret , but try a he would he could not find out what that secret be .
Whatever it be , it make Johnny Chuck very happy .
He would come out on his doorstep and smile and sometimes give a funny little whistle of pure joy .
It puzzle Sammy Jay a great deal .
He could n't see why Johnny Chuck should be any happy than he ever be .
To be sure it be a happy time of year .
Everybody be happy , for it be spring-time , and the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , even the Old Pasture , be very lovely .
But somehow Sammy Jay felt sure that it be something more than this , a secret that Johnny Chuck be keep all to himself , that be make him so happy .
But what it be , Sammy Jay could n't imagine .
He spend so much time think about it and wonder what it could be , that it actually keep him out of mischief .
One morning Johnny Chuck come out , look happy than ever .
He chuckle and chuckle a only a happy Chuck can .
Then he do foolish thing .
He kick up his heel .
He roll over and over in the grass .
He whistle .
He even try to sing , which be something no Chuck can do or should ever try to do .
Then suddenly he scramble to his foot , carefully brush his coat , and try to look very dignified .
He strut back and forth in front of his doorway , a if he be very proud of something .
There be pride in the very way in which he take each step .
There be pride in the very way in which he hold his head .
It be too much for Sammy Jay .
`` What be you so proud about , Johnny Chuck ? ''
he demand , in his harsh voice , `` If I do n't have a good look coat than you 've get , I would n't put on air ! ''
You know Sammy Jay be very proud of his own handsome blue and white coat and dearly love to show it off .
`` It be n't that , '' say Johnny Chuck .
`` Well , if it be because you think yourself so smart to hide yourself up here in the old orchard , let me tell you that I find you out long ago , and so do Reddy Fox , and Bowser the Hound , and Farmer Brown 's boy , '' sneer Sammy Jay in the most disagreeable way .
`` It be n't that , '' say Johnny Chuck .
`` Well , what be it , then ? ''
snap Sammy Jay .
`` That 's for you to find out , '' reply Johnny Chuck .
`` There 's foolish pride and silly pride and pride of low degree ; A good pride be honest pride , and that 's the pride for me . ''
And with that , Johnny Chuck disappear in his new house .
XX SAMMY JAY UNDERSTANDS It be a beautiful morning .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have throw his bedclothes off very early and start to climb up the sky , smile his broad .
Old Mother West Wind have sweep his path clear of cloud .
The Merry Little Breezes , who , you know , be Mother West Wind 's child , have dance across the Green Meadows up to the old orchard , where they pelt each other with white and pink petal of apple blossom until the ground be cover .
Each apple-tree be like a huge bouquet of loveliness .
Yes , indeed , it be very beautiful that spring morning .
Sammy Jay have get up almost as early a Mr. Sun and Old Mother West Wind .
As soon a he have swallow his breakfast , he fly up to the old orchard and hid among the white and pink apple blossom to watch for Johnny Chuck .
You see , he know that Johnny Chuck have some sort of a secret which fill Johnny with very great pride ; but what it be Sammy Jay could n't even guess , and nothing trouble Sammy Jay quite so much a the feeling that he can not find out the secret of other people .
So he sit very , very still among the apple blossom and wait and watch .
By and by Johnny Chuck appear on his doorstep .
He seem very much excite , do Johnny Chuck .
He sit up very straight and look this way and look that way .
He look up in the apple-trees , and Sammy Jay hold his breath , for fear that Johnny would see him .
But Sammy be so well hide that , bright a Johnny Chuck 's eye be , they fail to see him .
Then Johnny Chuck actually climb up on the old stone wall so a to see good , and he sit there a long time , look and look .
Sammy Jay grow impatient .
`` He seem to be terribly watchful this morning .
I never know him to be so watchful before .
I do n't understand it , '' mutter Sammy to himself .
After a while Johnny Chuck seem quite satisfied that there be no one about .
He hop down from the old stone wall and scamper over to the doorway of his new house , and there he begin to chatter .
Sammy Jay stretch his neck until it ache , try to hear what Johnny Chuck be say , but he could n't because Johnny 's head be inside his doorway .
Pretty soon Johnny Chuck back out and sit up , and he look very proud and important .
Then Sammy Jay saw something that nearly take his breath away .
It be the head of Polly Chuck peep out of the doorway .
It be the first time that he have see Polly Chuck .
`` Why , '' gasp Sammy Jay , `` it must be that Johnny Chuck have a mate , and I do n't know a thing about it !
So that 's his secret and the reason he have appear so proud lately ! ''
Polly Chuck come out on the doorstep .
She look just as proud a Johnny Chuck , and at the same time she seem terribly anxious .
She sit up beside Johnny Chuck , and she look this way and that way , just a Johnny have .
Then she put her head in at the doorway and begin to call in the soft voice .
In a minute Sammy Jay saw something more .
It surprise him so that he nearly lose his balance .
It be another head peep out of the doorway , a head just like Johnny Chuck 's , only it be a teeny-weeny one .
Then there be another and another !
Polly keep talk and talk in the soft voice , while Johnny Chuck swell himself up until he look a if he would burst with pride .
Sammy Jay understood now why Johnny Chuck have be so proud for the last few day .
It be because he have a family !
Sammy look down at the three little Chucks sit on the doorstep , try to sit up the way Johnny Chuck sit , and they look so funny that Sammy forget himself and laugh right out loud .
In a flash the three little Chucks and Polly Chuck have disappear inside the house , while Johnny Chuck look up angrily .
He know that his secret be a secret no longer .
XXI SAMMY JAY HAS A CHANGE OF HEART There 's no one ever quite so bad That somewhere way down deep inside A little goodness do not find A place wherein to creep and hide .
It be so with Sammy Jay .
Yes , Sir , it be so with Sammy Jay .
You may think that because Sammy Jay be vain , a trouble-maker and a thief , he be all bad .
He be n't .
There be some good in Sammy Jay , just a there be some good in everybody .
If there be n't , Old Mother Nature never , never would allow Sammy Jay to go his mischievous way through the Green Forest .
He dearly love to get other people into all kind of trouble , and this be one reason why nobody love him .
But if you watch out sharp enough , you will find that hidden under that beautiful blue and white coat of his there really be some good .
You may have to look a long time for it , but sooner or later you will find it .
Johnny Chuck do .
Sammy Jay have already make a lot of trouble for Johnny Chuck .
You see he have be the first of the little forest and meadow people to find Johnny Chuck 's new house .
And then , just to make trouble for Johnny Chuck , he have tell Reddy Fox about it , and after that he have call Bowser the Hound and Farmer Brown 's boy over to it .
Now he have discover Johnny Chuck 's great secret -- that Johnny have a family .
What a chance to make trouble now !
Sammy start for the Green Forest as fast a his wing could take him .
He would tell Reddy Fox and Redtail the Hawk .
They be very fond of young Chucks .
It would be great fun to see the fright of Johnny Chuck and his family when Reddy Fox or Redtail the Hawk appear .
Sammy Jay chuckle wickedly a he fly .
When he reach the Green Forest and stop in his favorite hemlock-tree to rest , he be still chuckle .
But by that time it be a different kind of a chuckle .
Yes , Sir , it be a different kind of a chuckle .
It be a good chuckle to hear .
The fact be , Sammy Jay be no longer chuckling over the thought of the trouble he could make .
He be laugh at the memory of how funny those three little baby Chucks have look sit up on Johnny Chuck 's doorstep and try to do whatever Johnny Chuck do .
The more he think about it , the more he tickle and laugh .
Right in the midst of his laughter along come Redtail the Hawk .
Sammy Jay open his mouth to call to Redtail and tell him about Johnny Chuck 's secret .
Then he close it again with a snap .
`` I wo n't tell him yet , '' say Sammy to himself , `` for he might catch one of those baby Chucks , and they be such funny little fellow that that would really be too bad .
I guess I 'll wait a while . ''
And with that , off fly Sammy Jay to hunt for some other mischief .
You see , he have have a change of heart .
The little goodness way down deep inside have come out of hiding .
But of course Johnny Chuck do n't know this , and over in his new house in the far corner of the old orchard , he and Polly Chuck be worry and worrying , for they felt sure that now every one would know their secret , and it would n't be safe for the dear little baby Chucks to so much a put their funny little nose outside the door .
XXII JOHNNY CHUCK IS KEPT BUSY Johnny Chuck be naturally lazy .
You see , Johnny have very simple taste and usually he be content .
He do not have to go far from his own doorstep to get all he want to eat .
He do not have to hunt for his food , a so many of the little meadow and forest people do , and so he have a great deal of time to sit on his doorstep and watch the world go by and dream pleasant daydream and grow fat .
Now people who do not have to work usually become lazy .
It be the easy habit in the world to learn and the hard to get over .
And so , because he seldom have to work , Johnny Chuck quite naturally be lazy .
But Johnny can work when there really be need of it .
No one , unless it be Digger the Badger or Miner the Mole , can dig fast than Johnny Chuck .
And when there be real need of work , Johnny work with a will .
When he be a very tiny Chuck , old Mother Chuck have teach him this : `` When work there be that must be do Do n't fret and whine and spoil the day !
The quicker that you do your work The long time you 'll have to play . ''
Johnny never have forget this , and when it be really necessary that he should work , no one work hard than he do .
But he always first make sure that it be necessary work and that he will not be waste his time in do foolish , unnecessary thing .
And now Johnny Chuck be the busy he have ever be in all his life .
If he felt lazy these beautiful spring day , he do n't have time to think about it .
No , Sir , he actually do n't have time to remember that he be naturally lazy .
You see , he have a family to look out for -- three baby to find sweet , tender young clover for and to teach all the thing that every Chuck should know , and to watch out for , that no harm should come to them .
So Johnny Chuck be busy , so busy that he hardly have time to get enough to eat .
Every morning Johnny would come out as soon a jolly , round , red Mr. Sun begin his daily climb up in the blue , blue sky .
He would look this way and look that way to make sure that Reddy Fox or Granny Fox or Redtail the Hawk or Bowser the Hound or any other danger be nowhere near .
And he never forget to look up in the apple-trees to make sure that Sammy Jay be not there .
Then he would call to Polly Chuck and the three baby Chucks .
Polly Chuck would come out with a very worried air , and after her would come the three funny little baby Chucks , who would roll and tumble over each other on the doorstep .
When he think they have play enough , Johnny Chuck would lead the way along a little private path which he have make through the grass .
After him , one behind another , would trot the three little Chucks , and behind them would march Polly Chuck , to see that none go astray .
When they reach the patch of tender , sweet , young clover , Johnny Chuck would sit up very straight and still , watch as sharp a he know how for the least sign of danger .
When the three little stomach be full of sweet , tender , young clover , he would proudly lead the way home again , and then a before he would sit up very straight and watch for danger , while the three baby Chucks sprawledout on the doorstep for a sun-nap .
Oh , those be busy day for Johnny Chuck , and anxious day , too !
You see he have not forget that Sammy Jay have find out his secret , and he have n't the least doubt in the world that Sammy Jay would tell Reddy Fox .
So , from the first thing in the morning until the very last thing at night , Johnny Chuck be on the watch for danger .
And all the time , though Johnny do n't know it , a pair of sharp eye be watch him from a snug hiding-place in one of the old apple - tree .
Whose be they ?
Why , Sammy Jay 's , to be sure .
You see , Sammy Jay have n't tell Johnny Chuck 's great secret , after all .
XXIII THE SCHOOL IN THE OLD ORCHARD Little Foxes , little Chucks , Little Squirrels , Mice and Mink , Just like little boy and girl , Go to school to learn to think .
You do n't know that , do you ?
Well , it 's a fact .
Yes , Sir , it 's a fact .
All the baby bear in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows or around the Smiling Pool have to go to school just as soon a they be big enough to leave their own doorstep .
They go to the great school in the world , and it be call the School of Experience .
Old Mother Nature have charge of it , but the teacher usually be father and mother for the first few week , anyway .
After that Old Mother Nature herself give them a few lesson , and a very stern teacher she be .
They just HAVE to learn her lesson .
If they do n't , something dreadful be almost sure to happen .
Of course Sammy Jay know all this , because he have have to go to school when he be a little fellow .
So Sammy be not much surprise when , from his snug hiding-place in one of the old apple-trees , he discover that there be a school in Farmer Brown 's old orchard .
Johnny Chuck be the teacher and his three baby Chucks be the pupil .
Sammy Jay be so interested in that funny little school in the old orchard that he quite forget to think about mischief .
The very first lesson that the three little Chucks have to learn be obedience .
Johnny Chuck be very particular about that .
You see he know that unless they learn this first of all , none of the other lesson would do them much good .
They must first learn to mind instantly , without ask question .
Dear me , dear me , Johnny Chuck certainly do have his hand full , teach those three little Chucks to mind !
They be such lively little chap , and there be so much that be new and wonderful to see , that it be dreadfully hard work to sit perfectly still , just because Johnny Chuck tell them to .
But if they do n't mind instantly , they be sure to have their ear soundly box , and sometimes be send back to the house without a taste of the sweet , tender , young clover of which they be so fond .
After a few lesson of this kind , they find out that it be always best to obey instantly , and then Johnny begin to teach them other thing , thing which it be very important that every Chuck should know .
First , there be signal .
When Johnny whistle a certain way , it mean `` A stranger in sight ; possible danger ! ''
Then each little Chuck would sit up very straight and not move the teeniest , weeny bit , so that from a little distance they look for all the world like tiny stump .
But all the time their sharp little eye would be look this way and that way , to see what the danger might be .
After a while Johnny would give another little whistle , which mean `` Danger past . ''
Then they would once more begin to fill their little stomach with sweet , tender , young clover .
Sometimes , however , Johnny would whistle sharply .
That mean `` Run ! ''
Then they would scamper as fast a they could along the near little path to the house under the old apple-tree in the far corner , and never once look around .
They would dive head first , one after the other , in at the doorway , and not show their nose outside again until Johnny or Polly Chuck tell them they could .
Then there be a still different whistle .
It mean `` Danger very near ; lie low ! ''
When they hear that , they flatten themselves right down in the grass just wherever they happen to be , and hold their breath and do n't move until Johnny signal that they might .
Of course , there never be any real danger .
Johnny be just teach them , so that when danger do come , a it surely would , sooner or later , they would know just what to do .
It surely be a funny little school , and sometimes Sammy Jay have hard work to keep from laugh right out .
XXIV SAMMY JAY PROVES THAT HE IS NOT ALL BAD Sammy Jay have n't have so much fun for a long time a he find in watch the funny little school in Farmer Brown 's old orchard , where Johnny Chuck be teach his three baby Chucks the thing that every little Chuck must learn , if he would grow up into a big Chuck .
When they have learn to mind without wait to ask why , and have learn the signal which tell them just what to do when danger be near , Johnny begin to lead them farther and farther away from home .
He take them up along the old stone wall and show them how to find safe hiding-places among the stone .
Then he take them off a little way and suddenly give the danger signal .
It be funny , very funny indeed to see the three little Chucks scamper for the old stone wall and crawl out of sight .
The first time , two of them try to squeeze into the same hole together , and each be in such a hurry that he would n't let the other go first .
Then both lose their temper and they begin to fight about it , quite forget that if there be really any danger near , they surely would come to harm .
Such a scolding a Johnny Chuck do give those two little Chucks !
Then he make them try it all over again .
Once he find a foot print which Reddy Fox have make in some soft earth during the night , and make each little Chuck smell of it , while he tell them all about Reddy and old Granny Fox and how smart and sly they be and how very , very fond they be of tender young Chucks for dinner .
The three little Chucks shiver when they smell of Reddy 's track , and the hair along their back stand up in a way that be very funny to see .
Then Johnny Chuck take them over to the edge of the old orchard , where they could peep out over the Green Meadows .
He point out old Whitetail the Marshhawk , sail back and forth over the meadow , and tell them how once , when he be a little Chuck and have run away from home , old Whitetail have nearly catch him .
He tell them about Farmer Brown 's boy and about Bowser the Hound and a great many other thing that little Chucks should learn about .
Now all the time that Johnny Chuck be teach these thing , he be keep the sharp kind of a watch for danger , and there be many time when he would give the danger signal .
Then they would all lie flat down in the grass and keep perfectly still , or else scamper a fast a they could along the little path which Johnny have make , to the safety of the snug home under the old apple-tree .
But even the most watchful be surprise sometimes .
One morning , when Johnny Chuck have lead the three little Chucks farther from home than usual , Farmer Brown 's boy take it into his head to visit the old orchard .
Johnny Chuck do not see him come .
You see , the orchard grass have grow so tall that even when he sit up his very straight , Johnny could not always see over the top of it .
So this morning he fail to see Farmer Brown 's boy come .
But Sammy Jay , sit in his snug hiding-place in the top of one of the old apple-trees , saw him .
At first Sammy Jay 's sharp eye twinkle .
There would be some fun now !
Perhaps Farmer Brown 's boy would catch one of the little Chucks !
Sammy Jay could picture to himself the fright of Johnny Chuck and the three little Chucks .
He fairly hug himself in delight , for you know Sammy Jay dearly love to see other people in trouble .
Then he think of all the fun he have have watch those three little Chucks learn their lesson , and suddenly the thought of anything happen to them make Sammy Jay feel uncomfortable .
Almost without stop to think , he scream at the top of his lung : `` Run , Johnny Chuck , run !
Here come Farmer Brown 's boy ! ''
And Johnny Chuck ran .
He do n't wait to ask question or even to look .
He start the three little Chucks ahead of him , and he nip their heel to make them run faster .
And just in time they reach the snug house under the old apple-tree in the far corner .
Farmer Brown 's boy be just in time to see them disappear .
He watch Sammy Jay fly over to the Green Forest and scream `` Thief !
thief ! ''
a he fly .
`` I wonder now if that jay warn those chuck purposely , '' say he , a he scratch his head thoughtfully .
If Peter Rabbit have be there , he could have tell him that Sammy Jay do , for he know all about Sammy Jay and his trick .
But Peter be n't there .
The fact be , Peter be very busy do the most foolish of all the foolish thing he have ever do -- try to change his name .
You may read all about it in The Adventures of Peter Cottontail .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___Prince_Prigio.txt.out
CHAPTER I . -LCB- Chapter head picture : p1.jpg -RCB- How the Fairies be not Invited to Court .
Once upon a time there reign in Pantouflia a king and a queen .
With almost everything else to make them happy , they want one thing : they have no child .
This vex the king even more than the queen , who be very clever and learned , and who have hat doll when she be a child .
However , she , too in spite of all the book she read and all the picture she paint , would have be glad enough to be the mother of a little prince .
The king be anxious to consult the fairy , but the queen would not hear of such a thing .
She do not believe in fairy : she say that they have never exist ; and that she maintain , though The History of the Royal Family be full of chapter about nothing else .
Well , at long and at last they have a little boy , who be generally regard a the fine baby that have ever be see .
Even her majesty herself remark that , though she could never believe all the courtier tell her , yet he certainly be a fine child -- a very fine child .
Now , the time draw near for the christen party , and the king and queen be sit at breakfast in their summer parlour talk over it .
It be a splendid room , hung with portrait of the royal ancestor .
There be Cinderella , the grandmother of the reign monarch , with her little foot in her glass slipper thrust out before her .
There be the Marquis de Carabas , who , a everyone know , be raise to the throne a prince consort after his marriage with the daughter of the king of the period .
On the arm of the throne be seat his celebrated cat , wear boot .
There , too , be a portrait of a beautiful lady , sound asleep : this be Madame La Belle au Bois-dormant , also an ancestress of the royal family .
Many other picture of celebrated person be hang on the wall .
`` You have ask all the right people , my dear ? ''
say the king .
`` Everyone who should be ask , '' answer the queen .
`` People be so touchy on these occasion , '' say his majesty .
`` You have not forget any of our aunt ? ''
`` No ; the old cat ! ''
reply the queen ; for the king 's aunt be old-fashioned , and do not approve of her , and she know it .
`` They be very kind old lady in their way , '' say the king ; `` and be nice to me when I be a boy . ''
Then he wait a little , and remark : `` The fairy , of course , you have invite ?
It have always be usual , in our family , on an occasion like this ; and I think we have neglect them a little of late . ''
`` How can you be so absurd ? ''
cry the queen .
`` How often must I tell you that there be no fairy ?
And even if there be -- but , no matter ; pray let u drop the subject . ''
`` They be very old friend of our family , my dear , that 's all , '' say the king timidly .
`` Often and often they have be godmother to u .
One , in particular , be most kind and most serviceable to Cinderella I. , my own grandmother . ''
`` Your grandmother ! ''
interrupt her majesty .
`` Fiddle-de-dee !
If anyone put such nonsense into the head of my little Prigio -- '' But here the baby be bring in by the nurse , and the queen almost devour it with kiss .
And so the fairy be not invite !
It be an extraordinary thing , but none of the noble could come to the christen party when they learn that the fairy have not be ask .
Some be abroad ; several be ill ; a few be in prison among the Saracens ; others be captive in the den of ogre .
The end of it be that the king and queen have to sit down alone , one at each end of a very long table , array with plate and glass for a hundred guest -- for a hundred guest who never come !
`` Any soup , my dear ? ''
shout the king , through a speaking-trumpet ; when , suddenly , the air be fill with a sound like the rustling of the wing of bird .
Flitter , flitter , flutter , go the noise ; and when the queen look up , lo and behold !
on every seat be a lovely fairy , dress in green , each with a most interesting-looking parcel in her hand .
Do n't you like open parcel ?
The king do , and he be most friendly and polite to the fairy .
But the queen , though she saw them distinctly , take no notice of them .
You see , she do not believe in fairy , nor in her own eye , when she saw them .
So she talk across the fairy to the king , just a if they have not be there ; but the king behave as politely a if they be real -- which , of course , they be .
When dinner be over , and when the nurse have bring in the baby , all the fairy give him the most magnificent present .
One offer a purse which could never be empty ; and one a pair of seven-leagued boot ; and another a cap of darkness , that nobody might see the prince when he put it on ; and another a wishing-cap ; and another a carpet , on which , when he sit , he be carry wherever he wish to find himself .
Another make him beautiful for ever ; and another , brave ; and another , lucky : but the last fairy of all , a cross old thing , creep up and say , `` My child , you shall be too clever ! ''
This fairy 's gift would have please the queen , if she have believe in it , more than anything else , because she be so clever herself .
But she take no notice at all ; and the fairy go each to her own country , and none of them stay there at the palace , where nobody believe in them , except the king , a little .
But the queen toss all their nice boot and cap , carpet , purse , sword , and all , away into a dark lumber-room ; for , of course , she think that they be all nonsense , and merely old rubbish out of book , or pantomime `` property . ''
CHAPTER II .
-LCB- Chapter head picture : p9.jpg -RCB- Prince Prigio and his Family .
Well , the little prince grow up .
I think I 've tell you that his name be Prigio -- do I not ?
Well , that be his name .
You can not think how clever he be .
He argue with his nurse as soon a he could speak , which be very soon .
He argue that he do not like to be wash , because the soap get into his eye .
However , when he be tell all about the pore of the skin , and how they could not be healthy if he be not wash , he at once cease to resist , for he be very reasonable .
He argue with his father that he do not see why there should be king who be rich , while beggar be poor ; and why the king -- who be a little greedy -- should have poach egg and plum-cake at afternoon tea , while many other person go without dinner .
The king be so surprised and hurt at these remark that he box the prince 's ear , say , `` I 'll teach you to be too clever , my lad . ''
Then he remember the awful curse of the old fairy , and be sorry for the rudeness of the queen .
And when the prince , after have his ear box , say that `` force be no argument , '' the king go away in a rage .
-LCB- Prigio read a book : p11.jpg -RCB- Indeed , I can not tell you how the prince be hat by all !
He would go down into the kitchen , and show the cook how to make soup .
He would visit the poor people 's cottage , and teach them how to make the bed , and how to make plum-pudding out of turnip-tops , and venison cutlet out of rusty bacon .
He show the fencing-master how to fence , and the professional cricketer how to bowl , and instruct the rat-catcher in breed terrier .
He set sum to the Chancellor of the Exchequer , and assure the Astronomer Royal that the sun do not go round the earth -- which , for my part , I believe it do .
The young lady of the Court dislike dance with him , in spite of his good look , because he be always ask , `` Have you read this ? ''
and `` Have you read that ? ''
-- and when they say they have n't , he sneer ; and when they say they have , he find them out .
He find out all his tutor and master in the same horrid way ; correct the accent of his French teacher , and try to get his German tutor not to eat pea with his knife .
He also endeavour to teach the queen-dowager , his grandmother , an art with which she have long be perfectly familiar !
In fact , he know everything well than anybody else ; and the bad of it be that he do : and he be never in the wrong , and he always say , `` Did n't I tell you so ? ''
And , what be more , he have !
As time go on , Prince Prigio have two young brother , whom everybody like .
They be not a bit clever , but jolly .
Prince Alphonso , the third son , be round , fat , good-humoured , and as brave a a lion .
Prince Enrico , the second , be tall , thin , and a little sad , but never too clever .
Both be in love with two of their own cousin -LRB- with the approval of their dear parent -RRB- ; and all the world say , `` What nice , unaffected prince they be ! ''
But Prigio nearly get the country into several war by be too clever for the foreign ambassador .
Now , a Pantouflia be a rich , lazy country , which hat fighting , this be very unpleasant , and do not make people love Prince Prigio any good .
CHAPTER III .
About the Firedrake .
Of all the people who do not like Prigio , his own dear papa , King Grognio , dislike him most .
For the king know he be not clever , himself .
When he be in the counting-house , count out his money , and when he happen to say , `` Sixteen shilling and fourteen and twopence be three pound , fifteen , '' it make him wild to hear Prigio whisper , `` One pound , ten and twopence '' -- which , of course , it be .
And the king be afraid that Prigio would conspire , and get make king himself -- which be the last thing Prigio really want .
He much prefer to idle about , and know everything without seem to take any trouble .
-LCB- The King at his desk : p15.jpg -RCB- Well , the king thought and thought .
How be he to get Prigio out of the way , and make Enrico or Alphonso his successor ?
He read in book about it ; and all the book show that , if a king send his three son to do anything , it be always the young who do it , and get the crown .
And he wish he have the chance .
Well , it arrive at last .
There be a very hot summer !
It begin to be hot in March .
All the river be dry up .
The grass do not grow .
The corn do not grow .
The thermometer explode with heat .
The barometer stand at SET FAIR .
The people be much distress , and come and break the palace windows -- a they usually do when thing go wrong in Pantouflia .
The king consult the learn men about the Court , who tell him that probably a FIREDRAKE be in the neighbourhood .
Now , the Firedrake be a beast , or bird , about the bigness of an elephant .
Its body be make of iron , and it be always red-hot .
A more terrible and cruel beast can not be imagine ; for , if you go near it , you be at once broil by the Firedrake .
But the king be not ill-pleased : `` for , '' think he , `` of course my three son must go after the brute , the eldest first ; and , a usual , it will kill the first two , and be beat by the young .
It be a little hard on Enrico , poor boy ; but anything to get rid of that Prigio ! ''
Then the king go to Prigio , and say that his country be in danger , and that he be determine to leave the crown to whichever of them would bring him the horn -LRB- for it have horn -RRB- and tail of the Firedrake .
`` It be an awkward brute to tackle , '' the king say , `` but you be the old , my lad ; go where glory wait you !
Put on your armour , and be off with you ! ''
-LCB- `` Put on your armour and be off with you ! ''
: p18.jpg -RCB- This the king say , hop that either the Firedrake would roast Prince Prigio alive -LRB- which he could easily do , a I have say ; for he be all over as hot a a red-hot poker -RRB- , or that , if the prince succeed , at least his country would be free from the monster .
But the prince , who be lie on the sofa do sum in compound division for fun , say in the polite way : `` Thanks to the education your majesty have give me , I have learn that the Firedrake , like the siren , the fairy , and so forth , be a fabulous animal which do not exist .
But even granting , for the sake of argument , that there be a Firedrake , your majesty be well aware that there be no kind of use in send me .
It be always the eldest son who go out first and come to grief on these occasion , and it be always the third son that succeed .
Send Alphonso '' -LRB- this be the young brother -RRB- , `` and he will do the trick at once .
At least , if he fail , it will be most unusual , and Enrico can try his luck . ''
Then he go back to his arithmetic and his slate , and the king have to send for Prince Alphonso and Prince Enrico .
They both come in very warm ; for they have be whip top , and the day be unusually hot .
`` Look here , '' say the king , `` just you two young one look at Prigio !
You see how hot it be , and how coolly he take it , and the country suffering ; and all on account of a Firedrake , you know , which have apparently build his nest not far off .
Well , I have ask that lout of a brother of yours to kill it , and he say -- '' `` That he do not believe in Firedrakes , '' interrupt Prigio .
`` The weather 's warm enough without go out hunt ! ''
`` Not believe in Firedrakes ! ''
cry Alphonso .
`` I wonder what you do believe in !
Just let me get at the creature ! ''
for he be as brave a a lion .
`` Hi !
Page , my chain-armour , helmet , lance , and buckler !
A Molinda !
A Molinda ! ''
which be his war-cry .
The page run to get the armour ; but it be so uncommonly hot that he drop it , and put his finger in his mouth , cry !
-LCB- The page cry : p21.jpg -RCB- `` You have good put on flannel , Alphonso , for this kind of work , '' say Prigio .
`` And if I be you , I 'd take a light garden-engine , full of water , to squirt at the enemy . ''
`` Happy thought ! ''
say Alphonso .
`` I will ! ''
And off he go , kiss his dear Molinda , bid her keep a lot of dance for him -LRB- there be to be a dance when he have kill the Firedrake -RRB- , and then he rush to the field !
But he never come back any more !
Everyone weep bitterly -- everyone but Prince Prigio ; for he think it be a practical joke , and say that Alphonso have take the opportunity to start off on his travel and see the world .
`` There be some dreadful mistake , sir , '' say Prigio to the king .
`` You know as well a I do that the young son have always succeed , up to now .
But I entertain great hope of Enrico ! ''
And he grin ; for he fancy it be all nonsense , and that there be no Firedrakes .
Enrico be present when Prigio be console the king in this unfeeling way .
`` Enrico , my boy , '' say his majesty , `` the task await you , and the honour .
When you come back with the horn and tail of the Firedrake , you shall be crown prince ; and Prigio shall be make an usher at the Grammar School -- it be all he be fit for . ''
Enrico be not quite so confident a Alphonso have be .
He insist on make his will ; and he write a poem about the pleasure and advantage of die young .
This be part of it : The violet be a blossom sweet , That droop before the day be do -- Slain by thine overpower heat , O Sun !
And I , like that sweet purple flower , May roast , or boil , or broil , or bake , If burn by thy terrific power , Firedrake !
This poem comfort Enrico more or less , and he show it to Prigio .
But the prince only laugh , and say that the second line of the last verse be not very good ; for violet do not `` roast , or boil , or broil , or bake . ''
Enrico try to improve it , but could not .
So he read it to his cousin , Lady Kathleena , just a it be ; and she cry over it -LRB- though I do n't think she understand it -RRB- ; and Enrico cry a little , too .
However , next day he start , with a spear , a patent refrigerator , and a lot of the bottle people throw at fire to put them out .
But he never come back again !
After shed torrent of tear , the king summon Prince Prigio to his presence .
`` Dastard ! ''
he say .
`` Poltroon !
Your turn , which should have come first , have arrive at last .
You must fetch me the horn and the tail of the Firedrake .
Probably you will be grill , thank goodness ; but who will give me back Enrico and Alphonso ? ''
`` Indeed , your majesty , '' say Prigio , `` you must permit me to correct your policy .
Your only reason for dispatch your son in pursuit of this dangerous but I believe fabulous animal , be to ascertain which of u would most worthily succeed to your throne , at the date -- long may it be defer !
-- of your lamented decease .
Now , there can be no further question about the matter .
I , unworthy a I be , represent the sole hope of the royal family .
Therefore to send me after the Firedrake be -LCB- 25 -RCB- both dangerous and unnecessary .
Dangerous , because , if he treat me a you say he do my brother -- my unhappy brother , -- the throne of Pantouflia will want an heir .
But , if I do come back alive -- why , I can not be more the true heir than I be at present ; now can I ?
Ask the Lord Chief Justice , if you do n't believe me . ''
These argument be so clearly and undeniably correct that the king , unable to answer them , withdraw into a solitary place where he could express himself with freedom , and give rein to his expression .
CHAPTER IV .
How Prince Prigio be Deserted by Everybody .
Meanwhile , Prince Prigio have to suffer many unpleasant thing .
Though he be the crown prince -LRB- and though his argument be unanswerable -RRB- , everybody shun him for a coward .
The queen , who do not believe in Firedrakes , alone take his side .
He be not only avoid by all , but he have most disagreeable scene with his own cousin , Lady Molinda and Lady Kathleena .
In the garden Lady Molinda meet him walk alone , and do not bow to him .
`` Dear Molly , '' say the prince , who like her , `` how have I be so unfortunate a to offend you ? ''
`` My name , sir , be Lady Molinda , '' she say , very proudly ; `` and you have send your own brother to his grave ! ''
`` Oh , excuse me , '' say the prince , `` I be certain he have merely go off on his travel .
He 'll come back when he 's tired : there be no Firedrakes ; a French writer say they be ` purement fabuleux , ' purely fabulous , you know . ''
-LCB- `` My name , sir , be Lady Molinda , she say . ''
: p29.jpg -RCB- `` Prince Alphonso have go on his travel , and will come back when he be tired !
And be he then -- tire -- of me ? ''
cry poor Molinda , burst into tear , and forget her dignity .
`` Oh !
I beg your pardon , I never notice ; I 'm sure I be very sorry , '' cry the prince , who , never have be in love himself , never think of other people .
And he try to take Molinda 's hand , but she snatch it from him and run away through the garden to the palace , leave Prince Prigio to feel foolish , for once , and ashamed .
As for Lady Kathleena , she sweep past him like a queen , without a word .
So the prince , for all his cleverness , be not happy .
After several day have go by , the king return from the solitary place where he have be speak his mind .
He now felt calmer and good ; and so at last he come back to the palace .
But on see Prince Prigio , who be loll in a hammock , translate Egyptian hieroglyph into French poetry for his mother , the king break out afresh , and make use of the most cruel and impolite expression .
At last , he give order that all the Court should pack up and move to a distant city ; and that Prince Prigio should be leave alone in the palace by himself .
For he be quite unendurable , the king say , and he could not trust his own temper when he think of him .
And he grow so fierce , that even the queen be afraid of him now .
The poor queen cry a good deal ; Prigio be her favourite son , on account of his acknowledged ability and talent .
But the rest of the courtier be delight at leave Prince Prigio behind .
For his part , he , very good-naturedly , show them the best and short road to Falkenstein , the city where they be go ; and easily prove that neither the chief secretary for geography , nor the general of the army , know anything about the matter -- which , indeed , they do not .
The ungrateful courtier leave Prigio with hoot and yell , for they dislike him so much that they forget he would be king one day .
He therefore remind them of this little fact in future history , which make them feel uncomfortable enough , and then lay down in his hammock and go to sleep .
When he waken , the air be cold and the day be begin to grow dark .
Prince Prigio think he would go down and dine at a tavern in the town , for no servant have be leave with him .
But what be his annoyance when he find that his boot , his sword , his cap , his cloak -- all his clothes , in fact , except those he wear , -- have be take away by the courtier , merely to spite him !
His wardrobe have be ransack , and everything that have not be carry off have be cut up , burn , and destroy .
Never be such a spectacle of wicked mischief .
It be a if hay have be make of everything he possess .
What be bad , he have not a penny in his pocket to buy new thing ; and his father have stop his allowance of fifty thousand pound a month .
Can you imagine anything more cruel and unjust than this conduct ?
for it be not the prince 's fault that he be so clever .
The cruel fairy have make him so .
But , even if the prince have be bear clever -LRB- a may have happen to you -RRB- , be he to be blame for that ?
The other people be just as much in fault for be bear so stupid ; but the world , my dear child , can never be induce to remember this .
If you be clever , you will find it best not to let people know it -- if you want them to like you .
Well , here be the prince in a pretty plight .
Not a pound in his pocket , not a pair of boot to wear , not even a cap to cover his head from the rain ; nothing but cold meat to eat , and never a servant to answer the bell .
CHAPTER V. What Prince Prigio find in the Garret .
The prince walk from room to room of the palace ; but , unless he wrap himself up in a curtain , there be nothing for him to wear when he go out in the rain .
At last he climb up a turret-stair in the very old part of the castle , where he have never be before ; and at the very top be a little round room , a kind of garret .
The prince push in the door with some difficulty -- not that it be lock , but the handle be rusty , and the wood have swell with the damp .
The room be very dark ; only the last grey light of the rainy evening come through a slit of a window , one of those narrow window that they use to fire arrow out of in old time .
But in the dusk the prince saw a heap of all sort of thing lie on the floor and on the table .
There be two cap ; he put one on -- an old , grey , ugly cap it be , make of felt .
There be a pair of boot ; and he kick off his slipper , and get into them .
They be a good deal worn , but fit a if they have be make for him .
On the table be a purse with just three gold coin -- old one , too -- in it ; and this , a you may fancy , the prince be very well pleased to put in his pocket .
A sword , with a sword-belt , he buckle about his waist ; and the rest of the article , a regular collection of odds and end , he leave just where they be lie .
Then he run downstairs , and walk out of the hall door .
CHAPTER VI .
What Happened to Prince Prigio in Town .
By this time the prince be very hungry .
The town be just three mile off ; but he have such a royal appetite , that he do not like to waste it on bad cookery , and the people of the royal town be bad cook .
`` I wish I be in ` The Bear , ' at Gluckstein , '' say he to himself ; for he remember that there be a very good cook there .
But , then , the town be twenty-one league away -- sixty-three long mile !
No sooner have the prince say this , and take just three step , than he find himself at the door of the `` Bear Inn '' at Gluckstein !
`` This be the most extraordinary dream , '' say he to himself ; for he be far too clever , of course , to believe in seven-league boot .
Yet he have a pair on at that very moment , and it be they which have carry him in three stride from the palace to Gluckstein !
The truth be , that the prince , in look about the palace for clothes , have find his way into that very old lumber-room where the magical gift of the fairy have be throw by his clever mother , who do not believe in them .
But this , of course , the prince do not know .
Now you should be tell that seven-league boot only take those prodigious step when you say you want to go a long distance .
Otherwise they would be very inconvenient -- when you only want to cross the room , for example .
Perhaps this have not be explain to you by your governess ?
Well , the prince walk into `` The Bear , '' and it seem odd to him that nobody take any notice of him .
And yet his face be as well know a that of any man in Pantouflia , for everybody have see it , at least in picture .
He be so puzzle by not be attend to a usual , that he quite forget to take off his cap .
He sit down at the table , however , and shout '' Kellner ! ''
at which all the waiter jump , and look round in every direction , but nobody come to him .
At first he think they be too busy , but presently another explanation occur to him .
-LCB- The waiter : p38.jpg -RCB- `` The king , '' he say to himself , `` have threaten to execute anybody who speak to me , or help me in any way .
Well , I do n't mean to starve in the midst of plenty , anyhow ; here go ! ''
The prince rise , and go to the table in the midst of the room , where a huge roast turkey have just be place .
He help himself to half the breast , some sausage , chestnut stuffing , bread sauce , potato , and a bottle of red wine -- Burgundy .
He then go back to a table in a corner , where he din very well , nobody take any notice of him .
When he have finish , he sit watch the other people din , and smoke his cigarette .
As he be sit thus , a very tall man , an officer in the uniform of the Guards , come in , and , walk straight to the prince 's table , say : `` Kellner , clean this table , and bring in the bill of fare . ''
With these word , the officer sit down suddenly in the prince 's lap , a if he do not see him at all .
He be a heavy man , and the prince , enrage at the insult , push him away and jump to his foot .
As he do so , his cap drop off .
The officer fell on his knee at once , cry : `` Pardon , my prince , pardon !
I never saw you ! ''
This be more than the prince could be expect to believe .
`` Nonsense !
Count Frederick von Matterhorn , '' he say ; `` you must be intoxicate .
Sir !
you have insult your prince and your superior officer .
Consider yourself under arrest !
You shall be send to a prison to-morrow . ''
On this , the poor officer appeal piteously to everybody in the tavern .
They all declare that they have not see the prince , nor even have an idea that he be do them the honour of be in the neighbourhood of their town .
More and more offended , and convince that there be a conspiracy to annoy and insult him , the prince shout for the landlord , call for his bill , throw down his three piece of gold without ask for change , and go into the street .
`` It be a disgraceful conspiracy , '' he say .
`` The king shall answer for this !
I shall write to the newspaper at once ! ''
He be not put in a good temper by the way in which people hustle him in the street .
They run against him exactly a if they do not see him , and then stagger back in the great surprise , look in every direction for the person they have jostle .
In one of these encounter , the prince push so hard against a poor old beggar woman that she fell down .
As he be usually most kind and polite , he pull off his cap to beg her pardon , when , behold , the beggar woman give one dreadful scream , and faint !
A crowd be collect , and the prince , forget that he have throw down all his money in the tavern , pull out his purse .
Then he remember what he have do , and expect to find it empty ; but , lo , there be three piece of gold in it !
Overcome with surprise , he thrust the money into the woman 's hand , and put on his cap again .
In a moment the crowd , which have be star at him , rush away in every direction , with cry of terror , declare that there be a magician in the town , and a fellow who could appear and disappear at pleasure !
-LCB- The crowd running : p42.jpg -RCB- By this time , you or I , or anyone who be not so extremely clever a Prince Prigio , would have understand what be the matter .
He have put on , without know it , not only the seven-league boot , but the cap of darkness , and have take Fortunatus 's purse , which could never be empty , however often you take all the money out .
All those and many other delightful war the fairy have give him at his christening , and the prince have find them in the dark garret .
But the prince be so extremely wise , and learn , and scientific , that he do not believe in fairy , nor in fairy gift .
`` It be indigestion , '' he say to himself : `` those sausage be not of the best ; and that Burgundy be extremely strong .
Things be not a they appear . ''
Here , a he be argue with himself , he be nearly run over by a splendid carriage and six , the driver of which never take the slight notice of him .
Annoyed at this , the prince leap up behind , throw down the two footman , who make no resistance , and so be carry to the door of a magnificent palace .
He be determine to challenge the gentleman who be in the carriage ; but , notice that he have a very beautiful young lady with him , whom he have never see before , he follow them into the house , not wish to alarm the girl , and mean to speak to the gentleman when he find him alone .
A great ball be go on ; but , a usual , nobody take any notice of the prince .
He walk among the guest , be careful not to jostle them , and listen to their conversation .
It be all about himself !
Everyone have hear of his disgrace , and almost everyone cried `` Serve him right ! ''
They say that the air he give himself be quite unendurable -- that nothing be more rude than to be always in the right -- that cleverness might be carry far too far -- that it be well even to be bear stupid -LRB- `` Like the rest of you , '' think the prince -RRB- ; and , in fact , nobody have a good word for him .
Yes , one have !
It be the pretty lady of the carriage .
I never could tell you how pretty she be .
She be tall , with cheek like white rose blushing : she have dark hair , and very large dark-grey eye , and her face be the kind in the world !
The prince first think how nice and good she look , even before he think how pretty she look .
She stand up for Prince Prigio when her partner would speak ill of him .
She have never see the prince , for she be but newly come to Pantouflia ; but she declare that it be his misfortune , not his fault , to be so clever .
`` And , then , think how hard they make him work at school !
Besides , '' say this kind young lady , `` I hear he be extremely handsome , and very brave ; and he have a good heart , for he be kind , I have hear , to a poor boy , and do all his examination paper for him , so that the boy pass first in everything .
And now he be Minister for Education , though he ca n't do a line of Greek prose ! ''
The prince blush at this , for he know his conduct have not be honourable .
But he at once fell over head and ear in love with the young lady , a thing he have never do in his life before , because -- he say -- `` woman be so stupid ! ''
You see he be so clever !
Now , at this very moment -- when the prince , all of a sudden , be a deep in love a if he have be the stupid officer in the room -- an extraordinary thing happen !
Something seem to give a whirr !
in his brain , and in one instant he know all about it !
He believe in fairy and fairy gift , and understood that his cap be the cap of darkness , and his shoe the seven-league boot , and his purse the purse of Fortunatus !
He have read about those thing in historical book : but now he believe in them .
CHAPTER VII .
The Prince Falls in Love .
He understand all this , and burst out laughing , which nearly frighten an old lady near him out of her wit .
Ah !
how he wish he be only in even dress , that he might dance with the charm young lady .
But there he be , dressed just a if he be go out to hunt , if anyone could have see him .
So , even if he take off his cap of darkness , and become visible , he be no figure for a ball .
Once he would not have care , but now he care very much indeed .
But the prince be not clever for nothing .
He think for a moment , then go out of the room , and , in three step of the seven-league boot , be at his empty , dark , cold palace again .
He strike a light with a flint and steel , light a torch , and run upstairs to the garret .
The flare light of the torch fell on the pile of `` rubbish , '' a the queen would have call it , which he turn over with eager hand .
Was there -- yes , there be another cap !
There it lay , a handsome green one with a red feather .
The prince pull off the cap of darkness , put on the other , and say : '' I wish I be dress in my best suit of white and gold , with the royal Pantouflia diamonds ! ''
In one moment there he be in white and gold , the great and most magnificent dandy in the whole world , and the handsome man !
`` How about my boot , I wonder , '' say the prince ; for his seven-league boot be stout riding-boots , not good to dance in , whereas now he be in elegant shoe of silk and gold .
He throw down the wishing cap , put on the other -- the cap of darkness -- and make three stride in the direction of Gluckstein .
But he be only three step nearer it than he have be , and the seven-league boot be stand beside him on the floor !
`` No , '' say the prince ; `` no man can be in two different pair of boot at one and the same time !
That 's mathematics ! ''
He then hunt about in the lumber-room again till he find a small , shabby , old Persian carpet , the size of a hearthrug .
He go to his own room , take a portmanteau in his hand , sit down on the carpet , and say : `` I wish I be in Gluckstein . ''
In a moment there he find himself ; for this be that famous carpet which Prince Hussein buy long ago , in the market at Bisnagar , and which the fairy have bring , with the other present , to the christening of Prince Prigio .
-LCB- The Prince on the carpet : p52.jpg -RCB- When he arrive at the house where the ball be go on , he put the magical carpet in the portmanteau , and leave it in the cloak-room , receive a numbered ticket in exchange .
Then he march in all his glory -LRB- and , of course , without the cap of darkness -RRB- into the room where they be dance .
Everybody make place for him , bow down to the ground , and the loyal band strike up The Prince 's March !
Heaven bless our Prince Prigio !
What be there he do n't know ?
Greek , Swiss , German -LRB- High and Low -RRB- , And the name of the mountain in Mexico , Heaven bless the prince !
He use to be very fond of this march , and the word -- some people even say he have make them himself .
But now , somehow , he do n't much like it .
He go straight to the Duke of Stumpfelbahn , the Hereditary Master of the Ceremonies , and ask to be introduce to the beautiful young lady .
She be the daughter of the new English Ambassador , and her name be Lady Rosalind .
But she nearly faint when she hear who it be that wish to dance with her , for she be not at all particularly clever ; and the prince have such a bad character for snub girl , and ask them difficult question .
However , it be impossible to refuse , and so she dance with the prince , and he dance very well .
Then they sit out in the conservatory , among the flower , where nobody come near them ; and then they dance again , and then the Prince take her down to supper .
And all the time he never once say , `` Have you read this ? ''
or `` Have you read that ? ''
or , `` What !
you never heard of Alexander the Great ? ''
or Julius Caesar , or Michael Angelo , or whoever it might be -- horrid , difficult question he use to ask .
That be the way he use to go on : but now he only talk to the young lady about herself ; and she quite leave off be shy or frighten , and ask him all about his own country , and about the Firedrake-shooting , and say how fond she be of hunt herself .
And the prince say : `` Oh , if you wish it , you shall have the horn and tail of a Firedrake to hang up in your hall , to-morrow evening ! ''
Then she ask if it be not very dangerous work , Firedrake hunting ; and he say it be nothing , when you know the trick of it : and he ask her if she would but give him a rise out of her bouquet ; and , in short , he make himself so agreeable and unaffected , that she think him very nice indeed .
For , even a clever person can be nice when he like -- above all , when he be not think about himself .
And now the prince be think of nothing in the world but the daughter of the English ambassador , and how to please her .
He get introduced to her father too , and quite win his heart ; and , at last , he be invite to dine next day at the Embassy .
In Pantouflia , it be the custom that a ball must not end while one of the royal family go on dance .
This ball last till the light come in , and the bird be sing out of door , and all the mother present be sound asleep .
Then nothing would satisfy the prince , but that they all should go home singing through the street ; in fact , there never have be so merry a dance in all Pantouflia .
The prince have make a point of dance with almost every girl there : and he have suddenly become the most beloved of the royal family .
But everything must end at last ; and the prince , put on the cap of darkness and sit on the famous carpet , fly back to his lonely castle .
-LCB- The mother asleep : p56.jpg -RCB- CHAPTER VIII .
The Prince be Puzzled .
Prince Prigio do not go to bed .
It be bright daylight , and he have promise to bring the horn and tail of a Firedrake a a present to a pretty lady .
He have say it be easy to do this ; but now , a he sit and think over it , he do not feel so victorious .
`` First , '' he say , `` where be the Firedrake ? ''
He reflect for a little , and then run upstairs to the garret .
`` It should be here ! ''
he cry , toss the fairy ' gift about ; `` and , by George , here it be ! ''
Indeed , he have find the spyglass of carved ivory which Prince Ali , in the Arabian Nights , buy in the bazaar in Schiraz .
Now , this glass be make so that , by look through it , you could see anybody or anything you wish , however far away .
Prigio 's first idea be to look at his lady .
`` But she do not expect to be look at , '' he think ; `` and I wo n't ! ''
On the other hand , he determine to look at the Firedrake ; for , of course , he have no delicacy about spy on him , the brute .
The prince clap the glass to his eye , star out of window , and there , sure enough , he saw the Firedrake .
He be float about in a sea of molten lava , on the top of a volcano .
There he be , swim and dive for pleasure , toss up the flaming wave , and blow fountain of fire out of his nostril , like a whale spouting !
The prince do not like the look of him .
-LCB- The Prince look through the telescope : p59.jpg -RCB- `` With all my cap of darkness , and my shoe of swiftness , and my sword of sharpness , I never could get near that beast , '' he say ; `` and if I do stalk him , I could not hurt him .
Poor little Alphonso !
poor Enrico !
what plucky fellow they be !
I fancy that there be no such thing a a Firedrake : he 's not in the Natural History book , and I think the boy be only make fun , and would be back soon , safe and sound .
How horrid be too clever make one !
And now , what be I to do ? ''
-LCB- The Remora : p60.jpg -RCB- What be he to do , indeed ?
And what would you have do ?
Bring the horn and tail he must , or perish in the adventure .
Otherwise , how could he meet his lady ?
-- why , she would think him a mere braggart !
The prince sit down , and think and think ; and the day go on , and it be now high noon .
At last he jump up and rush into the library , a room where nobody ever go except himself and the queen .
There he turn the book upside down , in his haste , till he find an old one , by a French gentleman , Monsieur Cyrano de Bergerac .
It be an account of a voyage to the moon , in which there be a great deal of information about matter not generally know ; for few traveller have be to the moon .
In that book , Prince Prigio fancy he would find something he half remembered , and that would be of use to him .
And he do !
So you see that cleverness , and mind your book , have some advantage , after all .
For here the prince learn that there be a very rare beast , call a Remora , which be at least as cold a the Firedrake be hot !
`` Now , '' think he , '' if I can only make these two fight , why the Remora may kill the Firedrake , or take the heat out of him , at least , so that I may have a chance . ''
Then he seize the ivory glass , clap it to his eye , and look for the Remora .
Just the tip of his nose , as white a snow and as smooth a ice , be stick out of a chink in a frozen mountain , not far from the burn mountain of the Firedrake .
`` Hooray ! ''
say the prince softly to himself ; and he jump like mad into the winged shoe of swiftness , stick on the cap of darkness , girdle himself with the sword of sharpness , and put a good slice of bread , with some cold tongue , in a wallet , which he sling on his back .
Never you fight , if you can help it , except with plenty of food to keep you go and in good heart .
Then off he fly , and soon he reach the volcano of the Firedrake .
CHAPTER IX .
-LCB- Chapter head picture : p64.jpg -RCB- The Prince and the Firedrake .
It be dreadfully hot , even high up in the air , where the prince hung invisible .
Great burn stone be toss up by the volcano , and nearly hit him several time .
Moreover , the steam and smoke , and the flame which the Firedrake spout like foam from his nostril , would have daunt even the brave man .
The side of the hill , too , be cover with the blackened ash of his victim , whom he have roast when they come out to kill him .
The garden-engine of poor little Alphonso be lie in the valley , all broken and useless .
But the Firedrake , as happy a a wild duck on a lonely loch , be roll and dive in the liquid flame , all red-hot and full of frolic .
`` Hi ! ''
shout the prince .
The Firedrake rise to the surface , his horn as red a a red crescent - moon , only big , and lash the fire with his hoof and his blazing tail .
`` Who 's there ? ''
he say in a hoarse , angry voice .
`` Just let me get at you ! ''
`` It 's me , '' answer the prince .
It be the first time he have forget his grammar , but he be terribly excite .
`` What do you want ? ''
grunt the beast .
`` I wish I could see you '' ; and , horrible to relate , he rise on a pair of wide , flaming wing , and come right at the prince , guide by the sound of his voice .
Now , the prince have never hear that Firedrakes could fly ; indeed , he have never believe in them at all , till the night before .
For a moment he be numb with terror ; then he fly down like a stone to the very bottom of the hill , and shout : `` Hi ! ''
`` Well , '' grunt the Firedrake , `` what 's the matter ?
Why ca n't you give a civil answer to a civil question ? ''
`` Will you go back to your hole and swear , on your honour a a Firedrake , to listen quietly ? ''
`` On my sacred word of honour , '' say the beast , casually scorch an eagle that flew by into ash .
The cinder fell , jingle and crackle , round the prince in a little shower .
Then the Firedrake dive back , with an awful splash of flame , and the mountain roar round him .
The prince now flew high above him , and cry : `` A message from the Remora .
He say you be afraid to fight him . ''
`` Do n't know him , '' grunt the Firedrake .
`` He send you his glove , '' say Prince Prigio , `` a a challenge to mortal combat , till death do you part . ''
Then he drop his own glove into the fiery lake .
`` Does he ? ''
yell the Firedrake .
`` Just let me get at him ! ''
and he scramble out , all red-hot a he be .
`` I 'll go and tell him you 're come , '' say the prince ; and with two stride he be over the frozen mountain of the Remora .
CHAPTER X . The Prince and the Remora .
If he have be too warm before , the prince be too cold now .
The hill of the Remora be one solid mass of frozen steel , and the cold rush out of it like the breath of some icy beast , which indeed it be .
All around be thing like marble statue of men in armour : they be the dead body of the knight , horse and all , who have go out of old to fight the Remora , and who have be frost up by him .
The prince felt his blood stand still , and he grow faint ; but he take heart , for there be no time to waste .
Yet he could nowhere see the Remora .
`` Hi ! ''
shout the prince .
Then , from a narrow chink at the bottom of the smooth , black hill , -- a chink no deep than that under a door , but a mile wide , -- steal out a hideous head !
It be as flat a the head of a skate-fish , it be deathly pale , and two chill-blue eye , dead-coloured like stone , look out of it .
Then there come a whisper , like the breath of the bitter east wind on a winter day : `` Where be you , and how can I come to you ? ''
`` Here I be ! ''
say the prince from the top of the hill .
Then the flat , white head set itself against the edge of the chink from which it have peep , and slowly , like the movement of a sheet of ice , it slip upwards and curl upwards , and up , and up !
There seem no end to it at all ; and it move horribly , without foot , hold on by it own frost to the slippery side of the frozen hill .
Now all the low part of the black hill be cover with the horrid white thing coil about it in smooth , flat , shiny coil ; and still the head be high than the rest ; and still the icy cold come nearer and nearer , like Death .
The prince almost faint : everything seem to swim ; and in one moment more he would have fall stiff on the mountain-top , and the white head would have crawl over him , and the cold coil would have slip over him and turn him to stone .
And still the thing slip up , from the chink under the mountain .
But the prince make a great effort ; he move , and in two step he be far away , down in the valley where it be not so very cold .
`` Hi ! ''
he shout , as soon a his tongue could move within his chatter teeth .
There come a clear , hiss answer , like frozen word drop round him : `` Wait till I come down .
What do you want ? ''
Then the white fold begin to slide , like melt ice , from the black hill .
Prince Prigio felt the air get warm behind him , and colder in front of him .
He look round , and there be the tree begin to blacken in the heat , and the grass look like a sea of fire along the plain ; for the Firedrake be come !
The prince just take time to shout , `` The Firedrake be go to pay you a visit ! ''
and then he soar to the top of a neighbouring hill , and look on at what follow .
CHAPTER XI .
The Battle .
It be an awul sight to behold !
When the Remora hear the name of the Firedrake , his hated enemy , he slip with wonderful speed from the cleft of the mountain into the valley .
On and on and on he pour over rock and tree , a if a frozen river could slide downhill ; on and on , till there be mile of him stretch along the valley -- mile of the smooth - ribbed , icy creature , crawl and slip forward .
The green tree drop their leaf a he advance ; the bird fell down dead from the sky , slain by his frosty breath !
But , fast a the Remora stole forward , the Firedrake come quicker yet , fly and clash his fiery wing .
At last they be within striking distance ; and the Firedrake , stoop from the air , dash with his burning horn and flame foot slap into the body of the Remora .
Then there rise a steam so dreadful , such a white yet fiery vapour of heat , that no one who have not the prince 's magic glass could have see what happen .
With horrible grunt and roar the Firedrake try to burn his way right through the flat body of the Remora , and to chase him to his cleft in the rock .
But the Remora , hiss terribly , and visibly melt away in place , yet hold his ground ; and the prince could see his cold white fold climb slowly up the hoof of the Firedrake -- up and up , till they reach his knee , and the great burning beast roar like a hundred bull with the pain .
Then up the Firedrake leap , and hover on his fiery wing , he light in the midst of the Remora 's back , and dash into it with his horn .
But the flat , cruel head writhe backwards , and , slowly bend over on itself , the wounded Remora slide greedily to fasten again on the limb of the Firedrake .
Meanwhile , the prince , safe on his hill , be lunch on the loaf and the cold tongue he have bring with him .
`` Go it , Remora !
Go it , Firedrake !
you 're gain .
Give it him , Remora ! ''
he shout in the wild excitement .
Nobody have ever see such a battle ; he have it all to himself , and he never enjoy anything more .
He hat the Remora so much , that he almost wish the Firedrake could beat it ; for the Firedrake be the more natural beast of the pair .
Still , he be alarm when he saw that the vast flat body of the Remora be now slowly coil backwards , backwards , into the cleft below the hill ; while a thick wet mist show how cruelly it have suffer .
But the Firedrake , too , be in an unhappy way ; for his leg be now cold and black , his horn be black also , though his body , especially near the heart , glow still like red-hot iron .
`` Go it , Remora ! ''
cry the prince : `` his leg be give way ; he 's groggy on his pin !
One more effort , and he wo n't be able to move ! ''
Encouraged by this advice , the white , slippery Remora stream out of his cavern again , more and more of him uncoil , a if the mountain be quite full of him .
He have lose strength , no doubt : for the steam and mist go up from him in cloud , and the hissing of his angry voice grow fainter ; but so do the roar of the Firedrake .
Presently they sound more like groan ; and at last the Remora slip up his leg above the knee , and fasten on his very heart of fire .
Then the Firedrake stand groan like a black bull , knee-deep in snow ; and still the Remora climb and climb .
`` Go it now , Firedrake ! ''
shout the prince ; for he know that if the Remora win , it would be too cold for him to draw near the place , and cut off the Firedrake 's head and tail .
`` Go it , Drake !
he 's slacken ! ''
cry the prince again ; and the brave Firedrake make one last furious effort , and rise on his wing , drop just on the spine of his enemy .
The wounded Remora curl back his head again on himself , and again crawl , steam terribly , towards his enemy .
But the struggle be too much for the gallant Remora .
The flat , cruel head move slow ; the steam from his thousand wound grow fiercer ; and he gently breathe his last just a the Firedrake , too , fell over and lay exhaust .
With one final roar , like the breath of a thousand furnace , the Firedrake expire .
The prince , watch from the hill-top , could scarcely believe that these two awful scourge of Nature , which have so long devastate his country , be actually dead .
But when he have look on for half-an-hour , and only a river ran where the Remora have be , while the body of the Firedrake lay stark and cold , he hurry to the spot .
Drawing the sword of sharpness , he hack off , at two blow , the iron head and the tail of the Firedrake .
They be a weary weight to carry ; but in a few stride of the shoe of swiftness he be at his castle , where he throw down his burden , and nearly faint with excitement and fatigue .
-LCB- The Prince in front of the Firedrake : p78.jpg -RCB- But the castle clock strike half-past seven ; dinner be at eight , and the poor prince crawl on hand and knee to the garret .
Here he put on the wishing-cap ; wish for a pint of champagne , a hot bath , and his best black velvet and diamond suit .
In a moment these be provide ; he bath , dress , drink a glass of wine , pack up the head and tail of the Firedrake , sit down on the fly carpet , and knock at the door of the English ambassador a the clock be strike eight in Gluckstein .
Punctuality be the politeness of prince !
and a prince be polite , when he be in love !
The prince be receive at the door by a stout porter and lead into the hall , where several butler meet him , and he lay the mortal remain of the Firedrake under the cover of the fly carpet .
Then he be lead upstairs ; and he make his bow to the pretty lady , who , of course , make him a magnificent courtesy .
She seem pretty and kind than ever .
The prince be so happy , that he never notice how something go wrong about the dinner .
The ambassador look about , and seem to miss someone , and speak in a low voice to one of the servant , who answer also in a low voice , and what he say seem to displease the ambassador .
But the prince be so busy in talk to his lady , and in eat his dinner too , that he never observe anything unusual .
He have never be at such a pleasant dinner !
CHAPTER XII .
A Terrible Misfortune .
When the lady leave , and the prince and the other gentleman be alone , the ambassador appear more gloomy than ever .
At last he take the prince into a corner , on pretence of show him a rare statue .
`` Does your royal highness not know , '' he ask , `` that you be in considerable danger ? ''
`` Still ? ''
say the prince , thinking of the Firedrake .
The ambassador do not know what he mean , for he have never hear of the fight , but he answer gravely : `` Never more than now . ''
Then he show the prince two proclamation , which have be post all about the town .
-LCB- The ambassador show the Prince the proclamation : p82.jpg -RCB- Here be the first : TO ALL LOYAL SUBJECTS .
Whereas , Our eldest son , Prince Prigio , hath of late be guilty of several high crime and misdemeanour .
First : By abandon the post of danger against the Firedrake , whereby our beloved son , Prince Alphonso and Prince Enrico , have perish , and be overdo by that monster .
Secondly : By attend an unseemly revel in the town of Gluckstein , where he brawl in the street .
Thirdly : By try to seduce away the heart of our loyal subject in that city , and to blow up a party against our crown and our peace .
This be to give warning , That whoever consort with , comfort , aid , or abet the say Prince Prigio , be thereby a partner in his treason ; and That a reward of FIVE THOUSAND PURSES will be give to whomsoever brings the say prince , alive , to our Castle of Falkenstein .
GROGNIO R. And here be the second proclamation : REWARD .
THE FIREDRAKE .
Whereas , Our dominion have lately be devastate by a Firedrake -LRB- the Salamander Furiosus of Buffon -RRB- ; This be to advise all , That whosoever bring the horn and tail of the say Firedrake to our Castle of Falkenstein , shall receive FIVE THOUSAND PURSES , the position of Crown Prince , with the usual perquisite , and the hand of the king 's niece , the Lady Molinda .
GROGNIO R. `` H 'm , '' say the prince ; `` I do not think his majesty write so well ; '' and he would have like to say , `` Do n't you think we might join the lady . ''
`` But , sir , '' say the ambassador , `` the street be line with soldier ; and I know not how you have escape them .
Here , under my roof , you be safe for the moment ; but a prolonged stay -- excuse my inhospitality -- could not but strain the harmonious relation which prevail between the Government of Pantouflia and that which I have the honour to represent . ''
`` We do n't want to fight ; and no more , I think , do you , '' say the prince , smile .
`` Then how do your royal highness mean to treat the proclamation ? ''
`` Why , by win these ten thousand purse .
I can tell you 1,000,000 pound be worth have , '' say the prince .
`` I 'll deliver up the say prince , alive , at Falkenstein this very night ; also the horn and tail of the say Firedrake .
But I do n't want to marry my Cousin Molly . ''
`` May I remind your royal highness that Falkenstein be three hundred mile away ?
Moreover , my head butler , Benson , disappear from the house before dinner , and I fear he go to warn Captain Kopzoffski that you be here ! ''
`` That be nothing , '' say the prince ; `` but , my dear Lord Kelso , may I not have the pleasure of present Lady Rosalind with a little gift , a Philippine which I lose to her last night , merely the head and tail of a Firedrake which I stalk this morning ? ''
The ambassador be so astonished that he run straight upstairs , forget his manner , and cry : `` Linda !
Linda !
come down at once ; here 's a surprise for you ! ''
Lady Rosalind come sweep down , with a smile on her kind face .
She guess what it be , though the prince have say nothing about it at dinner .
`` Lead the way , your royal highness ! ''
cry the ambassador ; and the prince , offer Lady Rosalind his arm , go out into the hall , where he saw neither his carpet nor the horn and tail of the Firedrake !
He turn quite pale , and say : `` Will you kindly ask the servant where the little Persian prayer-rug and the parcel which I bring with me have be place ? ''
Lord Kelso ring the bell , and in come all the servant , with William , the under-butler , at their head .
`` William , '' say his lordship , `` where have you put his royal highness 's parcel and his carpet ? ''
`` Please , your lordship , '' say William , `` we think Benson have take them away with him . ''
`` And where be Benson ? ''
`` We do n't know , your lordship .
We think he have be come for ! ''
`` Come for -- by whom ? ''
William stammer , and seem at a loss for a reply .
`` Quick !
answer !
what do you know about it ? ''
William say at last , rather a if he be make a speech .
`` Your royaliness , and my lord and lady , it be like this .
His royaliness come in with a rug over his arm , and summat under it .
And he lay it down on that there seat , and Thomas show him into the droring - room .
Then Benson say : ` Dinner 'll be ready in five minute ; how tired I do feel ! '
Then he take the libbuty of sit hisself down on his royaliness 's rug , and he say , ask your pardon , ` I 've have about enough of service here .
I 'm about tire , and I think of better myself .
I wish I be at the king 's court , and butler . '
But before the word be out of his mouth , off he fly like a shot through the open door , and his royaliness 's parcel with him .
I run to the door , and there he be , fly right hover the town , in a northerly direction .
And that 's all I know ; for I would not tell a lie , not if it be never so .
And me , and Thomas -- a do n't see it , -- and cook , we think a how Benson be come for .
And cook say a she do n't wonder at it , neither ; for a grumblinger , more ill-conditioneder -- '' -LCB- The Butler on the carpet : p89.jpg -RCB- `` Thank you , William , '' say Lord Kelso ; `` that will do ; you can go , for the present . ''
