Oh , I be so happy , Uncle Paul ! ''
He smile at her and put his arm over her shoulder .
Together they walk up the golden arcade to tell the others .
That night Charlotte and Ellen cry with happiness a they talk it over in the twilight .
`` How beautiful ! ''
murmur Charlotte softly .
`` We shall not lose Worth after all .
Ellen , I could not have borne it to see that girl go utterly out of our life again . ''
`` I always hop and believe that Elizabeth 's child would somehow bring u all together again , '' say Ellen happily .
Freda 's Adopted Grave North Point , where Freda live , be the bleak settlement in the world .
Even it inhabitant , who love it , have to admit that .
The northeast wind swept whistle up the bay and blow rawly over the long hill that slop down to it , blight everything that be in their way .
Only the sturdy fir and spruce could hold their own against it .
So there be no orchard or grove or flower garden in North Point .
Just over the hill , in a sheltered southwest valley , be the North Point church with the graveyard behind it , and this graveyard be the most beautiful spot in North Point or near it .
The North Point folk love flower .
They could not have them about their home , so they have them in their graveyard .
It be a matter of pride with each family to keep the separate plot neatly trim and weed and adorn with beautiful blossom .
It be one of the unwritten law of the little community that on some select day in May everybody would repair to the graveyard to plant , trim and clip .
It be not an unpleasant duty , even to those whose sorrow be fresh .
It seem a if they be still do something for the friend who have go when they make their earthly resting place beautiful .
As for the child , they look forward to `` Graveyard Day '' a a very delightful anniversary , and it divide it spring honour with the amount of the herring catch .
`` Tomorrow be Graveyard Day , '' say Minnie Hutchinson at school recess , when all the little girl be sit on the fence .
`` Ai n't I glad !
I 've get the lovely big white rosebush to plant by Grandma Hutchinson 's grave .
Uncle Robert send it out from town . ''
`` My mother have ten tuberose to set out , '' say Nan Gray proudly .
`` We 're go to plant a row of lily right around our plot , '' say Katie Morris .
Every little girl have some boast to make , that be , every little girl but Freda .
Freda sit in a corner all by herself and felt miserably outside of everything .
She have no part or lot in Graveyard Day .
`` Are you go to plant anything , Freda ? ''
ask Nan , with a wink at the others .
Freda shake her head mutely .
`` Freda ca n't plant anything , '' say Winnie Bell cruelly , although she do not mean to be cruel .
`` She have n't get a grave . ''
Just then Freda felt a if her gravelessness be a positive disgrace and crime , a if not to have an interest in a single grave in North Point cemetery brand you a an outcast forever and ever .
It very nearly do in North Point .
The other little girl pity Freda , but at the same time they rather look down upon her for it with the complacency of those who have be bear into a good heritage of family graf and have an undisputed right to celebrate Graveyard Day .
Freda felt that her cup of wretchedness be full .
She sit miserably on the fence while the other girl run off to play , and she walk home alone at night .
It seem to her that she could not bear it any longer .
Freda be ten year old .
Four year ago Mrs. Wilson have take her from the orphan asylum in town .
Mrs. Wilson live just this side of the hill from the graveyard , and everybody in North Point call her a `` crank . ''
They pity any child she take , they say .
It would be work to death and treat like a slave .
At first they try to pump Freda concern Mrs. Wilson 's treatment of her , but Freda be not to be pump .
She be a quiet little mite , with big , wistful dark eye that have a disconcerting fashion of look the gossip out of countenance .
But if Freda have be dispose to complain , the North Point people would have find out that they have be only too correct in their prediction .
`` Mrs. Wilson , '' Freda say timidly that night , `` why have n't we get a grave ? ''
Mrs. Wilson aver that such a question give her the `` creep . ''
`` You ought to be very thankful that we have n't , '' she say severely .
`` That Graveyard Day be a heathenish custom , anyhow .
They make a regular picnic of it , and it make me sick to hear those school girl chatter about what they mean to plant , each one try to outblow the other .
If I have a grave there , I would n't make a flower garden of it ! ''
Freda do not go to the graveyard the next day , although it be a holiday .
But in the evening , when everybody have go home , she creep over the hill and through the beech grove to see what have be do .
The plot be all very neat and prettily set out with plant and bulb .
Some perennial be already in bud .
The grave of Katie Morris ' great-uncle , who have be dead for forty year , be cover with blossom purple pansy .
Every grave , no matter how small or old , have it share of promise -- every grave except one .
Freda come across it with a feeling of surprise .
It be away down in the low corner where there be no plot .
It be shut off from the others by a growth of young poplar and be sink and overgrow with blueberry shrub .
There be no headstone , and it look dismally neglect .
Freda felt a sympathy for it .
She have no grave , and this grave have nobody to tend it or care for it .
When she go home she ask Mrs. Wilson whose it be .
`` Humph ! ''
say Mrs. Wilson .
`` If you have so much spare time lie round loose , you 'd better put it into your sew instead of prowl about graveyard .
Do you expect me to work my finger to the bone making clothes for you ?
I wish I 'd leave you in the asylum .
That grave be Jordan Slade 's , I suppose .
He die twenty year ago , and a worthless , drunken scamp he be .
He serve a term in the penitentiary for break into Andrew Messervey 's store , and after it he have the face to come back to North Point .
But respectable people would have nothing to do with him , and he go to the dog altogether -- have to be bury on charity when he die .
He have n't any relation here .
There be a sister , a little girl of ten , who use to live with the Cogswells over at East Point .
After Jord die , some rich folk saw her and be so struck with her good look that they take her away with them .
I do n't know what become of her , and I do n't care .
Go and bring the cow up . ''
When Freda go to bed that night her mind be make up .
She would adopt Jordan Slade 's grave .
Thereafter , Freda spend her few precious spare-time moment in the graveyard .
She clip the blueberry shrub and long , tangle grass from the grave with a pair of rusty old shear that blister her little brown hand badly .
She bring fern from the wood to plant about it .
She beg a root of heliotrope from Nan Gray , a clump of day lily from Katie Morris , a rosebush slip from Nellie Bell , some pansy seed from old Mrs. Bennett , and a geranium shoot from Minnie Hutchinson 's big sister .
She plant , weed and water faithfully , and her effort be reward .
`` Her '' grave soon look as nice a any in the graveyard .
Nobody but Freda know about it .
The poplar growth conceal the corner from sight , and everybody have quite forgotten poor , disreputable Jordan Slade 's grave .
At least , it seem a if everybody have .
But one evening , when Freda slip down to the graveyard with a little can of water and round the corner of the poplar , she saw a lady standing by the grave -- a strange lady dress in black , with the lovely face Freda have ever see , and tear in her eye .
The lady give a little start when she saw Freda with her can of water .
`` Can you tell me who have be look after this grave ? ''
she say .
`` It -- it be I , '' falter Freda , wonder if the lady would be angry with her .
`` Pleas 'm , it be I , but I do n't mean any harm .
All the other little girl have a grave , and I have n't any , so I just adopt this one . ''
`` Did you know whose it be ? ''
ask the lady gently .
`` Yes 'm -- Jordan Slade 's .
Mrs. Wilson tell me . ''
`` Jordan Slade be my brother , '' say the lady .
`` He go sadly astray , but he be not all bad .
He be weak and too easily influence .
But whatever his fault , he be good and kind -- oh !
so good and kind -- to me when I be a child .
I love him with all my heart .
It have always be my wish to come back and visit his grave , but I have never be able to come , my home have be so far away .
I expect to find it neglected .
I can not tell you how pleased and touch I be to find it keep so beautifully .
Thank you over and over again , my dear child ! ''
`` Then you 're not cross , ma'am ? ''
say Freda eagerly .
`` And I may go on look after it , may I ?
Oh , it just seem a if I could n't bear not to ! ''
`` You may look after it as long a you want to , my dear .
I will help you , too .
I be to be at East Point all summer .
This will be our grave -- yours and mine . ''
That summer be a wonderful one for Freda .
She have find a firm friend in Mrs. Halliday .
The latter be a wealthy woman .
Her husband have die a short time previously and she have no child .
When she go away in the fall , Freda go with her `` to be her own little girl for always . ''
Mrs. Wilson consent grudgingly to give Freda up , although she grumble a great deal about ingratitude .
Before they go they pay a farewell visit to their grave .
Mrs. Halliday have arrange with some of the North Point people to keep it well attend to , but Freda cry at leave it .
`` Do n't feel badly about it , dear , '' comfort Mrs. Halliday .
`` We be come back every summer to see it .
It will always be our grave . ''
Freda slip her hand into Mrs. Halliday 's and smile up at her .
`` I 'd never have find you , Aunty , if it have n't be for this grave , '' she say happily .
`` I 'm so glad I adopt it . ''
How Don Was Saved Will Barrie go whistle down the lane of the Locksley farm , take a short cut over a field of clover aftermath and through a sloping orchard where the tree be laden with apple , and emerge into the farmhouse yard where Curtis Locksley be sit on a pile of log , idly whittle at a stick .
`` You look a if you have a corner in time , Curt , '' say Will .
`` I call that luck , for I want you to go chestnutting up to Grier 's Hill with me .
I meet old Tom Grier on the road yesterday , and he tell me I might go any day .
Nice old man , Tom Grier . ''
`` Good ! ''
say Curtis heartily , a he spring up .
`` If I have n't exactly a corner in time , I have a day off , at least .
Uncle do n't need me today .
Wait till I whistle for Don .
May as well take him with u . ''
Curtis whistle accordingly , but Don , his handsome Newfoundland dog , do not appear .
After call and whistle about the yard and barn for several minute , Curtis turn away disappointedly .
`` He ca n't be anywhere around .
It be very strange .
Don never use to go away from home without me , but lately he have be miss several time , and twice last week he be n't here in the morning and do n't turn up until midday . ''
`` I 'd keep him shut up until I break him of the habit of play truant , if I be you , '' say Will , a they turn into the lane .
`` Don hat to be shut up , howl all the time so mournfully that I ca n't stand it , '' respond Curtis .
`` Well , '' say Will , hesitatingly , `` maybe that would be good after all than let him stray away with other dog who may teach him bad habit .
I saw Don myself one even last week amble down the Harbour road with that big brown dog of Sam Ventnor 's .
Ventnor 's dog be begin to have a bad reputation , you know .
There have be several sheep worried lately , and -- '' `` Don would n't touch a sheep ! ''
interrupt Curtis hotly .
`` I daresay not , not yet .
But Ventnor 's dog be under suspicion , and if Don run with him he 'll learn the trick sure a preaching .
The farmer be growl a good bit already , and if they hear of Don and Ventnor 's dog go about in company , they 'll put it on them both .
Better keep Don shut up awhile , let him howl a he like . ''
`` I believe I will , '' say Curtis soberly .
`` I do n't want Don to fall under suspicion of sheep-worrying , though I 'm sure he would never do it .
Anyhow , I do n't want him to run with Ventnor 's dog .
I 'll chain him up in the barn when I go home .
I could n't stand it if anything happen to Don .
After you , he 's the only chum I 've get -- and he 's a good one . ''
Will agree .
He be almost a fond of Don a Curtis be .
But he do not feel so sure that the dog would not worry a sheep .
Will know that Don be suspect already , but he do not like to tell Curtis so .
And of course there be a yet no positive proof -- merely muttering and suggestion among the Bayside farmer who have lose sheep and be anxious to locate their slayer .
There be many other dog in Bayside and the surrounding district who be just as likely to be the guilty animal , and Will hop that if Don be shut up for a time , suspicion might be avert from him , especially if the worrying still go on .
He have felt a little doubtful about hint the truth to Curtis , who be a high-spirited lad and always resent any slur cast upon Don much more bitterly than if it be mean for himself .
But he know that Curtis would take it good from him than from the other Bayside boy , one or the other of whom would be sure soon to cast something up to Curtis about his dog .
Will felt decidedly relieve to find that Curtis take his advice in the spirit in which it be offer .
`` Who have lose sheep lately ? ''
query Curtis , a they leave the main road and strike into a wood path through the rank of beech on Tom Grier 's land .
`` Nearly everybody on the Hollow farm , '' answer Will .
`` Until last week nobody on the Hill farm have lose any .
But Tuesday night old Paul Stockton have six fine sheep kill in his upland pasture behind the fir wood .
He be furious about it , I believe , and vow he 'll find out what dog do it and have him shot . ''
Curtis look grave .
Paul Stockton 's farm be only about a quarter of a mile from the Locksley homestead , and he know that Paul have an old family grudge against his Uncle Arnold , which include his nephew and all belonging to him .
Moreover , Curtis remember with a sink heart that Wednesday morning have be one of the morning upon which Don be miss .
`` But I do n't care ! ''
he think miserably .
`` I know Don do n't kill those sheep . ''
`` Talking of old Paul , '' say Will , who think it advisable to turn the conversation , `` remind me that they be get anxious at the Harbour about George Finley 's schooner , the Amy Reade .
She be due three day ago and there 's no sign of her yet .
And there have be two bad gale since she leave Morro .
Oscar Stockton be on board of her , you know , and his father be worry about him .
There be five other men on her , all from the Harbour , and their folk down there be pretty wild about the schooner . ''
Nothing more be say about the sheep , and soon , in the pleasure of chestnutting , Curtis forget his anxiety .
Old Tom Grier have call to the boy a they pass his house to come back and have dinner there when the time come .
This they do , and it be late in the afternoon when Curtis , with his bag of chestnut over his shoulder , walk into the Locksley yard .
His uncle be stand before the open barn door , talk to an elderly , grizzle man with a thin , shrewd face .
Curtis 's heart sank a he recognize old Paul Stockton .
What could have bring him over ?
`` Curtis , '' call his uncle , `` come here . ''
As Curtis cross the yard , Don come bound down the slope from the house to meet him .
He put his hand on the dog 's big head and the two of them walk slowly to the barn .
Old Paul include them both in a vindictive scowl .
`` Curtis , '' say his uncle gravely , `` here 's a bad business .
Mr. Stockton tell me that your dog have be worry his sheep . ''
`` It 's a -- '' begin Curtis angrily .
Then he check himself and go on more calmly .
`` That ca n't be so , Mr. Stockton .
My dog would not harm anything . ''
`` He kill or help to kill six of the fine sheep in my flock ! ''
retort old Paul .
`` What proof have you of it ? ''
demand Curtis , try to keep his anger within bound .
`` Abner Peck saw your dog and Ventnor 's running together through my sheep pasture at sundown on Tuesday evening , '' answer old Paul .
`` Wednesday morning I find this in the corner of the pasture where the sheep be worry .
Your uncle admit that it be tie around your dog 's neck on Tuesday . ''
And old Paul hold out triumphantly a faded red ribbon .
Curtis recognize it at a glance .
It be the ribbon his little cousin , Lena , have tie around Don 's neck Tuesday afternoon .
He remember how they have laugh at the effect of that frivolous red collar and bow on Don 's massive body .
`` I 'm sure Don be n't guilty ! ''
he cry passionately .
Mr. Locksley shake his head .
`` I 'm afraid he be , Curtis .
The case look very black against him , and sheep-stealing be a serious offence . ''
`` The dog must be shoot , '' say old Paul decidedly .
`` I leave the matter in your hand , Mr. Locksley .
I 've get enough proof to convict the dog and , if you do n't have him kill , I 'll make you pay for the sheep he worry . ''
As old Paul strode away , Curtis look beseechingly at his uncle .
`` Don must n't be shoot , Uncle ! ''
he say desperately .
`` I 'll chain him up all the time . ''
`` And have him howl night and day a if we have a brood of banshee about the place ? ''
say Mr. Locksley sarcastically .
He be a stern man with little sentiment in his nature and no understanding whatever of Curtis 's affection for Don .
The Bayside people say that Arnold Locksley have always be very severe with his nephew .
`` No , no , Curtis , you must look at the matter sensibly .
The dog be a nuisance and must be shoot .
You ca n't keep him shut up forever , and , if he have once learn the trick of sheep-worrying , he will never forget it .
You can get another dog if you must have one .
I 'll get Charles Pippey to come and shoot Don tomorrow .
No sulking now , Curtis .
You be too big a boy for that .
Tie the dog up for the night and then go and put the calf in .
There be a storm come .
The wind be blow hard from the northeast now . ''
His uncle walk away , leave the boy white and miserable in the yard .
He look at Don , who sit on his haunch and return his gaze frankly and open-heartedly .
He do not look like a guilty dog .
Could it be possible that he have really worry those sheep ?
`` I 'll never believe it of you , old fellow ! ''
Curtis say , a he lead the dog into a corner of the carriage house and tie him up there .
Then he fling himself down on a pile of sack beside him and bury his face in Don 's curly black fur .
The boy felt sullen , rebellious and wretched .
He lay there until dark , think his own bitter thought and listen to the rapidly increase gale .
Finally he get up and fling off after the calf , with Don 's melancholy howl at find himself deserted ring in his ear .
He 'll be quiet enough tomorrow night , think Curtis wretchedly , a he go upstairs to bed after housing the calf .
For a long while he lay awake , but finally drop into a heavy slumber which last until his aunt call him for milking .
The wind be blow more furiously than ever .
Up over the field come the roar and crash of the surge on the outside shore .
The Harbour to the east of Bayside be rough and stormy .
They be just rise from breakfast when Will Barrie burst into the kitchen .
`` The Amy Reade be ashore on Gleeson 's rock ! ''
he shout .
`` Struck there at daylight this morning !
Come on , Curt ! ''
Curtis sprang for his cap , his uncle follow suit more deliberately .
As the two boy run through the yard , Curtis hear Don howling .
`` I 'll take him with me ! ''
he mutter .
`` Wait a minute , Will . ''
The Harbour road be throng with people hurry to the outside shore , for the news of the Amy Readers disaster have spread rapidly .
As the boy , with the rejoice Don at their heel , pelt along , Sam Morrow overtake them in a cart and tell them to jump in .
Sam have already be down to the shore and have go back to tell his father .
As they jolt along , he scream information at them over the shriek of the gale .
`` Bad business , this !
She 's pound on a reef ` bout a quarter of a mile out .
They 're sure she 's go to break up -- old tub , you know -- leaky -- rotten .
The sea 's tremenjus high , and the surf go dean over her .
There ca n't be no boat launch for hour yet -- they 'll all be drown .
Old Paul 's down there like a madman -- offer everything he 's get to the man who 'll save Oscar , but it ca n't be do . ''
By this time they have reach the shore , which be black with excited people .
Out on Gleeson 's Reef the ill-fated little schooner be visible amid the fly spray .
A grizzled old Harbour fisherman , to whom Sam shout a question , shake his head .
`` No , ca n't do nothin ' !
No boat c 'd live in that surf f ' r a moment .
The schooner 'll go to piece mighty soon , I 'm feared .
It 's turrible !
turrible !
to stan ' by an ' watch yer neighbours drown like this ! ''
Curtis and Will elbow their way down to the water 's edge .
The relative of the crew be all there in various stage of despair , but old Paul Stockton seem like a man demented .
He run up and down the beach , cry and pray .
His only son be on the Amy Reade , and he could do nothing to save him !
`` What be they do ? ''
ask Will of Martin Clark .
`` Trying to get a line ashore by throw out a small rope with a stick tie to it , '' answer Martin .
`` It 's young Stockton that 's try now .
But it be n't any use .
The cross-currents on that reef be too powerful . ''
`` Why , Don will bring that line ashore ! ''
exclaim Curtis .
`` Here , Don !
Don , I say ! ''
The dog bound back along the shore with a quick bark .
Curtis grasp him by the collar and point to the stick which young Stockton have just hurl again into the water .
Don , with another bark of comprehension , dash into the sea .
The onlooker , grasp the situation , give a cheer and then relapse into silence .
Only the shriek of the gale and the crash of the wave could be hear a they watch the magnificent dog swim out through the breaker , his big black head now rise on the crest of a wave and now disappear in the hollow behind it .
When Don finally reach the tossing stick , grasp it in his mouth and turn shoreward , another great shout go up from the beach .
A woman behind Curtis , whose husband be on the schooner , drop on her knee on the pebble , sob and thank God .
Curtis himself felt the stinging tear start to his eye .
When Don reach the shore he drop the stick at Curtis 's foot and give himself a tremendous shake .
Curtis caught at the stick , while a dozen men and woman throw themselves bodily on Don , hug him and kiss his wet fur like distracted creature .
Old Paul Stockton be among them .
Over his shoulder Don 's big black head look up , his eye ask as plainly a speech what all this fuss be about .
Meanwhile some of the men have already pull a big hawser ashore and make it fast .
In half an hour the crew of the Amy Reade be safe on shore , chill and drip .
Before they be hurry away to warmth and shelter , old Paul Stockton catch Curtis 's hand .
The tear be run freely down his hard , old face .
`` Tell your uncle he be not to lay a finger on that dog ! ''
he say .
`` He never kill a sheep of mine -- he could n't !
And if he do I do n't care !
He 's welcome to kill them all , if nothing but mutton 'll serve his turn . ''
Curtis walk home with a glad heart .
Mr. Locksley hear old Paul 's message with a smile .
He , too , have be touch by Don 's splendid feat .
`` Well , Curtis , I 'm very glad that it have turn old Paul in his favour .
But we must shut Don up for a week or so , no matter how hard he take it .
You can see that for yourself .
After all , he might have worry the sheep .
And , anyway , he must be break of his intimacy with Ventnor 's dog . ''
Curtis acknowledge the justice of this and poor Don be tie up again .
His captivity be not long , however , for Ventnor 's dog be soon shot .
When Don be release , Curtis have an anxious time for a week or two .
But no more sheep be worry , and Don 's innocence be triumphantly establish .
As for old Paul Stockton , it seem a if he could not do enough for Curtis and Don .
His ancient grudge against the Locksleys be completely forget , and from that date he be a firm friend of Curtis .
In regard to Don , old Paul would say : `` Why , there never be such a dog before , sir , never !
He just talk with his eye , that dog do .
And if you 'd just ` a ' see him swim out to that schooner !
Bones ?
Yes , sir !
Every time that dog come here he 's to get the best bone we 've get for him -- and more 'n bone , too .
That dog 's a hero , sir , that 's what he be ! ''
Miss Madeline 's Proposal `` Auntie , I have something to tell you , '' say Lina , with a blush that make her look more than ever like one of the climbing roses that nod about the window of the `` old Churchill place , '' a it be always call in Lower Wentworth .
Miss Madeline , sit in the low rocker by the parlour window , seem like the preside genius of the place .
Everything about her match her sweet old-fashionedness , from the crown of her soft brown hair , dress in the style of her long ago girlhood , to the toe of her daintily slippered foot .
Outside of the old Churchill place , in the busy street of the up-to-date little town , Miss Madeline might have seem out of harmony with her surroundings .
But here , in this dim room , faintly scent with whiff from the rise garden outside , she be like a note in some sweet , perfect melody of old time .
Lina , sit on a little stool at Miss Madeline 's foot with her curly head in her aunt 's lap , be as pretty a Miss Madeline herself have once be .
She be also very happy , and her happiness seem to envelop her a in an atmosphere and lend her a new radiance and charm .
Miss Madeline love her pretty niece very dearly and pat the curly head tenderly with her slender white hand .
`` What be it , my dear ? ''
`` I 'm -- I 'm engaged , '' whisper Lina , hide her face in Miss Madeline 's flowered muslin lap .
`` Engaged ! ''
Miss Madeline 's tone be one of surprise and awe .
She blush a she say the word as deeply a Lina have do .
Then she go on , with a little quiver of excitement in her voice , `` To whom , my dear ? ''
`` Oh , you do n't know him , Auntie , but I hope you will soon .
His name be Ralph Wylde .
Is n't it pretty ?
I meet him last winter , and we become very good friend .
But we have a quarrel before I come down here and , oh , I have be so unhappy over it .
Three week ago he write me and beg my pardon -- so nice of him , because I be really all to blame , you know .
And he say he love me and -- all that , you know . ''
`` No , I do n't know , '' say Miss Madeline gently .
`` But -- but -- I can imagine . ''
`` Oh , I be so happy .
I write back and I have this letter from him today .
He be come down tomorrow .
You 'll be glad to see him , wo n't you , Auntie ? ''
`` Oh , yes , my dear , and I be glad for your sake -- very glad .
You be sure you love him ? ''
`` Yes , indeed , '' say Lina , with a little laugh , a if wonder how anyone could doubt it .
Presently , Miss Madeline say in a shy voice , `` Lina , do -- do you ever receive a proposal of marriage from anybody besides Mr. Wylde ? ''
Lina laugh roguishly .
`` Why , yes , Auntie , ever so many .
A dozen , at least . ''
`` Oh , my dear ! ''
cry Miss Madeline in a slightly shock tone .
`` But I do , really .
Sometimes it be horrid and sometimes it be funny .
It all depend on the man .
Dear me , how red and uncomfortable most of them look -- all but the fifth .
He be so cool and business like that he almost surprise me into accept him . ''
`` And -- and what do you feel like , Lina ? ''
`` Oh , frighten , mostly -- but I always want to laugh too .
You must know how it be yourself , Auntie .
What do you feel like when somebody propose to you ? ''
Miss Madeline flush from chin to brow .
`` Oh , Lina , '' she falter a if she be confess something very disgraceful , yet to which she be impel by her strict truthfulness , `` I -- I -- never have a proposal in my life -- not one . ''
Lina open her big brown eye in amazement .
`` Why , Aunt Madeline !
And you so pretty !
What be the reason ? ''
`` I 've often wonder , '' say Miss Madeline faintly .
`` I be pretty , a you say -- it 's so long ago I can say that now .
And I have many gentleman friend .
But nobody ever want to marry me .
I sometimes wish that -- that I could have have just one proposal .
Not that I want to marry , you know , I do not mean that , but just so that it would n't have seem that I be different from anybody else .
It be very foolish of me to wish it , I know , and even wicked -- for if I have not care for the person it would have make him very unhappy .
But then , he would have forget and I would have remember .
It would always have be something to be a little proud of . ''
`` Yes , '' say Lina absently ; her thought have go back to Ralph .
That even a letter be leave at the front door of the old Churchill place .
It be address in a scholarly hand to Miss Madeline Churchill , and Amelia Kent take it in .
Amelia have be Miss Madeline 's `` help '' for year and have grow grey in her service .
In Amelia 's loyal eye Miss Madeline be still young and beautiful ; she never doubt that the letter be for her mistress .
Nobody else there be ever address a `` Miss Madeline . ''
Miss Madeline be sit by the window of her own room watch the sunset through the elm and read her even portion of Thomas à Kempis .
She never like to be disturb when so employed but she read her letter after Amelia have go out .
When she come to a certain paragraph , she turn very pale and Thomas à Kempis fell to the floor unheeded .
When she have finish the letter she lay it on her lap , clasp her hand , and say , `` Oh , oh , oh , '' in a faint , tremulous voice .
Her cheek be very pink and her eye very bright .
She do not even pick up Thomas à Kempis but go to the door and call Lina .
`` What be it , Auntie ? ''
ask Lina curiously , notice the sign of unusual excitement about Miss Madeline .
Miss Madeline hold out her letter with a trembling hand .
`` Lina , dear , this be a letter from the Rev . Cecil Thorne .
It -- it be -- a proposal of marriage .
I feel terribly upset .
How very strange that it should come so soon after our talk this morning !
I want you to read it !
Perhaps I ought not to show it to anyone -- but I would like you to see it . ''
Lina take the letter and read it through .
It be unmistakably a proposal of marriage and be , moreover , a very charming epistle of it kind , albeit a little stiff and old-fashioned .
`` How funny ! ''
say Lina when she come to the end .
`` Funny ! ''
exclaim Miss Madeline , with a trace of indignation in her gentle voice .
`` Oh , I do n't mean that the letter be funny , '' Lina hasten to explain , `` only that , a you say , it be odd to think of it come so soon after our talk . ''
But this be a little fib on Lina 's part .
She have think that the letter or , rather , the fact that it have be write to Miss Madeline , funny .
The Rev . Cecil Thorne be Miss Madeline 's pastor .
He be a handsome , scholarly man of middle age , and Lina have see a good deal of him during her summer in Lower Wentworth .
She have teach the infant class in Sunday School and sometimes she have think that the minister be in love with her .
But she must have be mistake , she reflect ; it must have be her aunt after all , and the Rev . Cecil Thorne 's shyly display interest in her must have be purely professional .
`` What a goose I be to be afraid he be in love with me ! ''
she think .
Aloud she say , `` He say he will call tomorrow even to receive your answer . ''
`` And , oh , what can I say to him ? ''
murmur Miss Madeline in dismay .
She wish she have a little of Lina 's experience .
`` You be go to -- you will accept him , wo n't you ? ''
ask Lina curiously .
`` Oh , my dear , no ! ''
cry Miss Madeline almost vehemently .
`` I could n't think of such a thing .
I be very sorry ; do you think he will feel badly ? ''
`` Judging from his letter I feel sure he will , '' say Lina decidedly .
Miss Madeline sigh .
`` Oh , dear me !
It be very unpleasant .
But of course I must refuse him .
What a beautiful letter he write too .
I feel very much disturb by this . ''
Miss Madeline pick up Thomas à Kempis , smooth him out repentantly , and place the letter between his leaf .
* * * * * When the Rev . Cecil Thorne call at the old Churchill place next evening at sunset and ask for Miss Madeline Churchill , Amelia show him into the parlour and go to call her mistress .
Mr. Thorne sit down by the window that look out on the lawn .
His heart give a bound a he catch a glimpse of an airy white muslin among the tree and a ripple of distant laughter .
The next minute Lina appear , stroll down the secluded path that curve about the birch .
A young man be walk beside her with his arm around her .
They cross the green square before the house and disappear in the rise garden .
Mr. Thorne lean back in his chair and put his hand over his eye .
He felt that he have receive his answer , and it be a very bitter moment for him .
He have hardly dare hope that this bright , beautiful child could care for him , yet the realization come home to him none the less keenly .
When Miss Madeline , pal and flush by turn , come shyly in he have recover his self-control sufficiently to be able to say `` good evening '' in a calm voice .
Miss Madeline sit down opposite to him .
At that moment she be devoutly thankful that she have never have any other proposal to refuse .
It be a dreadful ordeal .
If he would only help her out !
But he do not speak and every moment of silence make it bad .
`` I -- receive your letter , Mr. Thorne , '' she falter at last , look distressfully down at the floor .
`` My letter ! ''
Mr. Thorne turn towards her .
In her agitation Miss Madeline do not notice the surprise in his face and tone .
`` Yes , '' she say , gain a little courage since the ice be break .
`` It -- it -- be a very great surprise to me .
I never think you -- you care for me as -- a you say .
And I be very sorry because -- because I can not return your affection .
And so , of course , I can not marry you . ''
Mr. Thorne put his hand over his eye again .
He understand now that there have be some mistake and that Miss Madeline have receive the letter he have write to her niece .
Well , it do not matter -- the appearance of the young man in the garden have settle that .
Would he tell Miss Madeline of her mistake ?
No , it would only humiliate her and it make no difference , since she have refuse him .
`` I suppose it be of no use to ask you to reconsider your decision ? ''
he say .
`` Oh , no , '' cry Miss Madeline almost aghast .
She be afraid he might ask it after all .
`` Not in the least use .
I be sorry -- so very sorry -- but I could not answer differently .
We -- I hope -- this will make no difference in our friendly relation , Mr. Thorne ? ''
`` Not at all , '' say Mr. Thorne gravely .
`` We will try to forget that it have happen . ''
He bow sadly and go out .
Miss Madeline watch him guiltily a he walk across the lawn .
He look heart-broken .
How dreadful it have be !
And Lina have refuse twelve men !
How could she have live through it ?
`` Perhaps one get accustom to do it , '' reflect Miss Madeline .
`` But I be sure I never could . ''
`` Did Mr. Thorne feel very badly ? ''
whisper Lina that night .
`` I 'm afraid he do , '' confess Miss Madeline sorrowfully .
`` He look so pale and sad , Lina , that my heart ache for him .
I be very thankful that I have never have any other proposal to decline .
It be a very unpleasant experience .
But , '' she add , with a little tinge of satisfaction in her sweet voice , `` I be glad I have one .
It -- it have make me feel more like other people , you know , dear . ''
Miss Sally 's Company `` How beautiful ! ''
say Mary Seymour delightedly , a they dismount from their wheel on the crest of the hill .
`` Ida , who could have suppose that such a view would be our reward for climb that long , tedious hill with it rut and stone ?
Do n't you feel repay ? ''
`` Yes , but I be dreadfully thirsty , '' say Ida , who be always practical and never a enthusiastic over anything a Mary be .
Yet she , too , felt a keen pleasure in the beauty of the scene before them .
Almost at their foot lay the sea , cream and shimmer in the mellow sunshine .
Beyond , on either hand , stretch rugged brown cliff and rock , here run out to sea in misty purple headland , there curve into bay and cove that seem fill up with sunlight and glamour and pearly haze ; a beautiful shore and , seemingly , a lonely one .
The only house visible from where the girl stand be a tiny grey one , with odd , low eaves and big chimney , that stand down in the little valley on their right , where the cliff break away to let a brook run out to sea and form a small cove , on whose sandy shore the wave lap and croon within a stone 's throw of the house .
On either side of the cove a headland make out to sea , curve around to enclose the sparkling water a in a cup .
`` What a picturesque spot ! ''
say Mary .
`` But what a lonely one ! ''
protest Ida .
`` Why , there be n't another house in sight .
I wonder who live in it .
Anyway , I 'm go down to ask them for a drink of water . ''
`` I 'd like to ask for a square meal , too , '' say Mary , laugh .
`` I be discover that I be hungry .
Fine scenery be very satisfying to the soul , to be sure , but it do n't still the craving of the inner girl .
And we 've wheel ten mile this afternoon .
I 'm get hungry every minute . ''
They reach the little grey house by way of a sloping , grassy lane .
Everything about it be very neat and trim .
In front a white-washed paling shut in the garden which , shelter a it be by the house , be ablaze with poppy and hollyhock and geranium .
A path , border by big white clam shell , lead through it to the front door , whose step be slab of smooth red sandstone from the beach .
`` No child here , certainly , '' whisper Ida .
`` Every one of those clam shell be place just so .
And this walk be swept every day .
No , we shall never dare to ask for anything to eat here .
They would be afraid of our scatter crumb . ''
Ida lift her hand to knock , but before she could do so , the door be throw open and a breathless little lady appear on the threshold .
She be very small , with an eager , delicately featured face and dark eye twinkle behind gold-rimmed glass .
She be dress immaculately in an old-fashioned gown of grey silk with a white muslin fichu cross over her shoulder , and her silvery hair fell on each side of her face in long , smooth curl that just touch her shoulder and bobbed and flutter with her every motion ; behind , it be catch up in a knot on her head and surmount by a tiny lace cap .
She look a if she have just step out of a bandbox of last century , think Mary .
`` Are you Cousin Abner 's girl ? ''
demand the little lady eagerly .
There be such excitement and expectation in her face and voice that both the Seymour girl felt uncomfortably that they ought to be `` Cousin Abner 's girl . ''
`` No , '' say Mary reluctantly , `` we 're not .
We be only -- Martin Seymour 's girl . ''
All the light go out of the little lady 's face , a if some illuminating lamp have suddenly be quench behind it .
She seem fairly to droop under her disappointment .
As for the rest , the name of Martin Seymour evidently convey no especial meaning to her ear .
How could she know that he be a multi-millionaire who be popularly suppose to breakfast on railroad and lunch on small corporation , and that his daughter be girl whom all people delight to honour ?
`` No , of course you be not Cousin Abner 's girl , '' she say sorrowfully .
`` I 'd have know you could n't be if I have just stop to think .
Because you be dark and they would be fair , of course ; Cousin Abner and his wife be both fair .
But when I saw you come down the lane -- I be peek through the hall window upstairs , you know , I and Juliana -- I be sure you be Helen and Beatrice at last .
And I ca n't help wish you be ! ''
`` I wish we be , too , since you expect them , '' say Mary , smile .
`` But -- '' `` Oh , I be n't really expect them , '' break in the little lady .
`` Only I be always hop that they will come .
They never have yet , but Trenton be n't so very far away , and it be so lonely here .
I just long for company -- I and Juliana -- and I think I be go to have it today .
Cousin Abner come to see me once since I move here and he say the girl would come , too , but that be six month ago and they have n't come yet .
But perhaps they will soon .
It be always something to look forward to , you know . ''
She talk in a sweet , chirpy voice like a bird 's .
There be pathetic note in it , too , a the girl instinctively felt .
How very quaint and sweet and unworldly she be !
Mary find herself feel indignant at Cousin Abner 's girl , whoever they be , for their neglect .
`` We be out for a spin on our wheel , '' say Ida , `` and we be very thirsty .
We think perhaps you would be kind enough to give u a drink of water . ''
`` Oh , my dear , anything -- anything I have be at your service , '' say the little lady delightedly .
`` If you will come in , I will get you some lemonade . ''
`` I be afraid it be too much trouble , '' begin Mary .
`` Oh , no , no , '' cry the little lady .
`` It be a pleasure .
I love do thing for people , I wish more of them would come to give me the chance .
I never have any company , and I do so long for it .
It 's very lonesome here at Golden Gate .
Oh , if you would only stay to tea with me , it would make me so happy .
I be all prepared .
I prepare every Saturday morning , in particular , so that if Cousin Abner 's girl do come , I would be all ready .
And when nobody come , Juliana and I have to eat everything up ourselves .
And that be bad for u -- it give Juliana indigestion .
If you would only stay ! ''
`` We will , '' agree Ida promptly .
`` And we 're glad of the chance .
We be both terribly hungry , and it be very good of you to ask u . ''
`` Oh , indeed , it be n't !
It 's just selfishness in me , that 's what it be , pure selfishness !
I want company so much .
Come in , my dear , and I suppose I must introduce myself because you do n't know me , do you now ?
I 'm Miss Sally Temple , and this be Golden Gate Cottage .
Dear me , this be something like living .
You be special providence , that you be , indeed ! ''
She whisk them through a quaint little parlour , where everything be a dainty and neat and old-fashioned a herself , and into a spare bedroom beyond it , to put off their hat .
`` Now , just excuse me a minute while I run out and tell Juliana that we be go to have company to tea .
She will be so glad , Juliana will .
Make yourselves at home , my dear . ''
`` Is n't she delicious ? ''
say Mary , when Miss Sally have trip out .
`` I 'd like to shake Cousin Abner 's girl .
This be what Dot Halliday would call an adventure , Ida . ''
`` Is n't it !
Miss Sally and this quaint old spot both seem like a chapter out of the novel our grandmother cry over .
Look here , Mary , she be lonely and our visit seem like a treat to her .
Let u try to make it one .
Let 's just chum with her and tell her all about ourselves and our amusement and our dress .
That sound frivolous , but you know what I mean .
She 'll like it .
Let 's be company in real earnest for her . ''
When Miss Sally come back , she be attend by Juliana carry a tray of lemonade glass .
Juliana prove to be a diminutive lass of about fourteen whose cheerful , freckled face wear an expansive grin of pleasure .
Evidently Juliana be a fond of `` company '' a her mistress be .
Afterwards , the girl overheard a subdue colloquy between Miss Sally and Juliana out in the hall .
`` Go set the table , Juliana , and put on Grandmother Temple 's wedding china -- be sure you dust it carefully -- and the best tablecloth -- and be sure you get the crease straight -- and put some sweet pea in the centre -- and be sure they be fresh .
I want everything extra nice , Juliana . ''
`` Yes 'm , Miss Sally , I 'll see to it .
Is n't it great to have company , Miss Sally ? ''
whisper Juliana .
The Seymour girl long remember that tea table and the delicacy with which it be heap .
Privately , they do not wonder that Juliana have indigestion when she have to eat many such unaided .
Being hungry , they do full justice to Miss Sally 's good thing , much to that little lady 's delight .
She tell them all about herself .
She have live at Golden Gate Cottage only a year .
`` Before that , I live away down the country at Millbridge with a cousin .
My Uncle Ephraim own Golden Gate Cottage , and when he die he leave it to me and I come here to live .
It be a pretty place , be n't it ?
You see those two headland out there ?
In the morning , when the sun rise , the water between them be just a sea of gold , and that be why Uncle Ephraim have a fancy to call his place Golden Gate .
I love it here .
It be so nice to have a home of my own .
I would be quite content if I have more company .
But I have you today , and perhaps Beatrice and Helen will come next week .
So I 've really a great deal to be thankful for . ''
`` What be your Cousin Abner 's other name ? ''
ask Mary , with a vague recollection of hearing of Beatrice and Helen -- somebody -- in Trenton .
`` Reed -- Abner Abimelech Reed , '' answer Miss Sally promptly .
`` A.A. Reed , he sign himself now .
He be very well-to-do , I be told , and he carry on business in town .
He be a very fine young man , my Cousin Abner .
I do n't know his wife . ''
Mary and Ida exchange glance .
Beatrice and Helen Reed !
They know them slightly a the daughter of a new-rich family who be hanger-on of the fashionable society in Trenton .
They be regard a decidedly vulgar , and so far their effort to gain an entry into the exclusive circle where the Seymours and their like revolve have not be very successful .
`` I 'm afraid Miss Sally will wait a long while before she see Cousin Abner 's girl , '' say Mary , when they have go back to the parlour and Miss Sally have excuse herself to superintend the washing of Grandmother Temple 's wedding china .
`` They probably look on her a a poor relation to be ignore altogether ; whereas , if they be only like her , Trenton society would have make a place for them long ago . ''
The Seymour girl enjoy that visit as much a Miss Sally do .
She be eager to hear all about their girlish life and amusement .
They tell her of their travel , of famous men and woman they have see , of party they have attend , the dress they wear , the little fad and hobby of their set -- all jumble up together and all listen to eagerly by Miss Sally and also by Juliana , who be permit to sit on the stair out in the hall and so gather in the crumb of this intellectual feast .
`` Oh , you 've be such pleasant company , '' say Miss Sally when the girl go away .
Mary take the little lady 's hand in hers and look affectionately down into her face .
`` Would you like it -- you and Juliana -- if we come out to see you often ?
And perhaps bring some of our friend with u ? ''
`` Oh , if you only would ! ''
breathe Miss Sally .
Mary laugh and , obey a sudden impulse , bent and kiss Miss Sally 's cheek .
`` We 'll come then , '' she promise .
`` Please look upon u a your ` steady company ' henceforth . ''
The girl keep their word .
Thereafter , nearly every Saturday of the summer find them take tea with Miss Sally at Golden Gate .
Sometimes they come alone ; sometimes they bring other girl .
It soon become a decided `` fad '' in their set to go to see Miss Sally .
Everybody who meet her love her at sight .
It be consider a special treat to be take by the Seymours to Golden Gate .
As for Miss Sally , her cup of happiness be almost full .
She have `` company '' to her heart 's content and of the very kind she love -- bright , merry , fun-loving girl who devour her dainty with a frank zest that delight her , fill the quaint old room with laughter and life , and chatter to her of all their plan and frolic and hope .
There be just one little cloud on Miss Sally 's fair sky .
`` If only Cousin Abner 's girl would come ! ''
she once say wistfully to Mary .
`` Nobody can quite take the place of one 's own , you know .
My heart yearns after them . ''
Mary be very silent and thoughtful a she drive back to Trenton that night .
Two day afterwards , she go to Mrs. Gardiner 's lawn party .
The Reed girl be there .
They be tall , fair , handsome girl , somewhat too lavishly and pronouncedly dress in expensive gown and hat , and look , a they felt , very much on the outside of thing .
They brighten and bridle , however , when Mrs. Gardiner bring Mary Seymour up and introduce her .
If there be one thing on earth that the Reed girl long for more than another it be to `` get in '' with the Seymour girl .
After Mary have chat with them for a few minute in a friendly way , she say , `` I think we have a mutual friend in Miss Sally Temple of Golden Gate , have n't we ?
I 'm sure I 've hear her speak of you . ''
The Reed girl flush .
They do not care to have the rich Seymour girl know of their connection with that queer old cousin of their father 's who live in that out-of-the-world spot up-country .
`` She be a distant cousin of ours , '' say Beatrice carelessly , `` but we 've never meet her . ''
`` Oh , how much you have miss ! ''
say Mary frankly .
`` She be the sweet and most charming little lady I have ever meet , and I be proud to number her among my friend .
Golden Gate be such an idyllic little spot , too .
We go there so often that I fear Miss Sally will think we mean to outwear our welcome .
We hope to have her visit u in town this winter .
Well , good-by for now .
I 'll tell Miss Sally I 've meet you .
She will be please to hear about you . ''
When Mary have go , the Reed girl look at each other .
`` I suppose we ought to have go to see Cousin Sally before , '' say Beatrice .
`` Father say we ought to . ''
`` How on earth do the Seymours pick her up ? ''
say Helen .
`` Of course we must go and see her . ''
Go they do .
The very next day Miss Sally 's cup of happiness brim right over , for Cousin Abner 's girl come to Golden Gate at last .
They be very nice to her , too .
Indeed , in spite of a good deal of snobbishness and false view of life , they be good-hearted girl under it all ; and some plain common sense they have inherit from their father come to the surface and teach them to see that Miss Sally be a relative of whom anyone might be proud .
They succumb to her charm , a the others have do , and thoroughly enjoy their visit to Golden Gate .
They go away promise to come often again ; and I may say right here that they keep their promise , and a real friendship grow up between Miss Sally and `` Cousin Abner 's girl '' that be destine to work wonder for the latter , not only socially and mentally but spiritually as well , for it teach them that sincerity and honest kindliness of heart and manner be the best passport everywhere , and that pretence of any kind be a vulgarity not to be tolerate .
This take time , of course .
The Reed girl could not discard their snobbishness all at once .
But in the end it be pretty well take out of them .
Miss Sally never dream of this or the need for it .
She love Cousin Abner 's girl from the first and always admire them exceedingly .
`` And then it be so good to have your own folk come a company , '' she tell the Seymour girl .
`` Oh , I 'm just in the seventh heaven of happiness .
But , deary , I think you will always be my favourite -- mine and Juliana 's .
I 've plenty of company now and it 's all thanks to you . ''
`` Oh , no , '' say Mary quickly .
`` Miss Sally , your company come to you for just your own sake .
You 've make Golden Gate a veritable Mecca for u all .
You do n't know and you never will know how much good you have do u .
You be so good and true and sweet that we girls all feel a if we be bind to live up to you , do n't you see ?
And we all love you , Miss Sally . ''
`` I 'm so glad , '' breathe Miss Sally with shin eye , `` and so be Juliana . ''
Mrs. March 's Revenge `` I declare , it be a real fall day , '' say Mrs. Stapp , drop into a chair with a sigh of relief a Mrs. March usher her into the cosy little sitting-room .
`` The wind would chill the marrow in your bone ; winter 'll be here before you know it . ''
`` That 's so , '' assent Mrs. March , bustle about to stir up the fire .
`` But I do n't know a I mind it at all .
Winter be real pleasant when it do come , but I must say , I do n't fancy these betwixt-and-between day much .
Sit up to the fire , Theodosia .
You look real blue . ''
`` I feel so too .
Lawful heart , but this be comfort .
This chimney-corner of yours , Anna , be the cosy spot in the world . ''
`` When do you get home from Maitland ? ''
ask Mrs. March .
`` Did you have a pleasant time ?
And how do you leave Emily and the child ? ''
Mrs. Stapp take this trio of interrogation in calm detail .
`` I come home Saturday , '' she say , a she unroll her knitting .
`` Nice wet day it be too !
And a for my visit , yes , I enjoy myself pretty , well , not but what I worry over Peter 's rheumatism a good deal .
Emily be well , and the child ought to be , for such rampageous young one I never saw !
Emily ca n't do no more with them than an old hen with a brood of duck .
But , lawful heart , Anna , do n't mind about my little affair !
The news Peter have for me about you when I get home fairly take my breath .
He come down to the garden gate to shout it before I be out of the wagon .
I could n't believe but what he be joke at first .
You should have see Peter .
He have an old red shawl tie round his rheumatic shoulder , and he be wave his arm like a crazy man .
I declare , I think the chimney be afire !
Theodosia , Theodosia ! '
he shout .
` Anna March have have a fortune leave her by her brother in Australy , and she 's buy the old Carroll place , and be go to move up there ! '
That be his salute when I get home .
I 'd have be over before this to hear all about it , but thing be at such six and seven in the house that I could n't go visit until I 'd straighten them out a bit .
Peter 's real neat , a men go , but , lawful heart , such a mess a he make of housekeep !
I do n't know you have a brother living . ''
`` No more do I , Theodosia .
I think , a everyone else do , that poor Charles be at the bottom of the sea forty year ago .
It 's that long since he run away from home .
He have a quarrel with Father , and he be always dreadful high-spirited .
He go to sea , and we hear that he have sail for England in the Helen Ray .
She be never hear of after , and we all suppose that my poor brother have perish with her .
And four week ago I get a letter from a firm of lawyer in Melbourne , Australia , say that my brother , Charles Bennett , have die and leave all his fortune to me .
I could n't believe it at first , but they send me some thing of his that he have when he leave home , and there be an old picture of myself among them with my name write on it in my own hand , so then I know there be no mistake .
But whether Charles do sail in the Helen Ray , or if he do , how he escape from her and get to Australia , I do n't know , and it be n't likely I ever will . ''
`` Well , of all wonderful thing ! ''
comment Mrs. Stapp .
`` I be glad to hear that I be heir to so much money , '' say Mrs. March firmly .
`` At first I felt a if it be awful of me to be glad when it come to me by my brother 's death .
But I mourn for poor Charles forty year ago , and I ca n't sense that he have only just die .
Not but what I 'd rather have see him come home alive than have all the money in the world , but it have come about otherwise , and a the money be lawfully mine , I may as well feel pleased about it . ''
`` And you 've buy the Carroll place , '' say Mrs. Stapp , with the freedom of a privileged friend .
`` Whatever make you do it ?
I 'm sure you be a cosy here a need be , and nobody but yourself .
Is n't this house big enough for you ? ''
`` No , it be n't .
All my life I 've be hanker for a good , big , roomy house , and all my life I 've have to put up with little box of place , not big enough to turn round in .
I 've be content , and make the best of what I have , but now that I can afford it , I mean to have a house that will suit me .
The Carroll house be just what I want , for all it be a little old-fashioned .
I 've always have a notion of that house , although I never expect to own it any more than the moon . ''
`` It 's a real handsome place , '' admit Mrs. Stapp , `` but I expect it will need a lot of fix up .
Nobody have live in it for six year .
When be you go to move in ? ''
`` In about three week , if all go well .
I 'm have it all paint and do over inside .
The outside can wait until the spring . ''
`` It 's queer how thing come about , '' say Mrs. Stapp meditatively .
`` I guess old Mrs. Carroll never imagine her home be go to pass into other folk ' hand a it have .
When you and I be girl , and Louise Carroll be give herself such air over u , you do n't much expect to ever stand in her shoe , do you ?
Do you remember Lou ? ''
`` Yes , I do , '' say Mrs. March sharply .
A change come over her sonsy , smile face .
It actually look hard and revengeful , and a cruel light flicker in her dark brown eye .
`` I 'll not forget Lou Carroll as long a I live .
She be the only person in this world I ever hat .
I suppose it be sinful to say it , but I hate her still , and always will . ''
`` I never like her myself , '' admit Mrs. Stapp .
`` She think herself above u all .
Well , for that matter I suppose she be -- but she need n't have rub it in so . ''
`` Well , she might have be above me , '' say Mrs. March bitterly , `` but she be n't above twit and snub me every chance she get .
She always have a spite at me from the time we be child together at school .
When we grow up it be worse .
I could n't begin to tell you all the time that girl insult me .
But there be once in particular -- I 'll never forgive her for it .
I be at a party , and she be there too , and so be that young Trenham Manning , who be visit the Ashleys .
Do you remember him , Dosia ?
He be a handsome young fellow , and Lou have a liking for him , so all the girl say .
But he never look at her that night , and he keep by me the whole time .
It make Lou furious , and at last she come up to me with a sneer on her face , and her black eye just snap , and say , ` Miss Bennett , Mother tell me to tell you to tell your ma that if that plain sewing be n't do by tomorrow night she 'll send for it and give it to somebody else ; if people engage to have work do by a certain time and do n't keep their word , they need n't expect to get it . '
Oh , how badly I felt !
Mother and I be poor , and have to work hard , but we have feeling just like other people , and to be insult like that before Trenham Manning !
I just burst out cry then and there , and run away and hid .
It be very silly of me , but I could n't help it .
That sting me yet .
If I be ever to get a chance to pay Lou Carroll out for that , I 'd take it without any compunction . ''
`` Oh , but that be unchristian ! ''
protest Mrs. Stapp feebly .
`` Perhaps so , but it 's the way I feel .
Old Parson Jones use to say that people be marble good and bad pretty even , but that in everybody there be one or two streak just pure wicked .
I guess Lou Carroll be my wicked streak .
I have n't see or heard of her for year -- ever since she marry that worthless Dency Baxter and go away .
She may be dead for all I know .
I do n't expect ever to have a chance to pay her out .
But mark what I say , Theodosia , if I ever have , I will . ''
Mrs. March snip off her thread , a if she challenge the world .
Mrs. Stapp felt uncomfortable over the unusual display of feel she have evoke , and hasten to change the subject .
In three week ' time Mrs. March be establish in her new home , and the `` old Carroll house '' blossom out into renew splendour .
Theodosia Stapp , who have drop in to see it , be in a rapture of admiration .
`` You have a lovely home now , Anna .
I use to think it fine enough in the Carrolls ' time , but it be n't as grand a this .
And that remind me , I have something to tell you , but I do n't want you to get as excite a you do the last time I mention her name .
You remember the last day I be to see you we be talk of Lou Carroll ?
Well , next day I be downtown in a store , and who should sail in but Mrs. Joel Kent , from Oriental .
You know Mrs. Joel -- Sarah Chapple that be ?
She and her man keep a little hotel up at Oriental .
They 're not very well off .
She be a cousin of old Mrs. Carroll , but , lawful heart , the Carrolls do n't use to make much of the relationship !
Well , Mrs. Joel and I have a chat .
She tell me all her trouble -- she always have lot of them .
Sarah be always of a grumbling turn , and she have a brand-new stock of them this time .
What do you think , Anna March ?
Lou Carroll -- or Mrs. Baxter , I suppose I should say -- be up there at Joel Kent 's at Oriental , die of consumption ; leastwise , Mrs. Joel say she be . ''
`` Lou Carroll die at Oriental ! ''
cried Mrs. March .
`` Yes .
She come there from goodness know where , about a month ago -- might as well have drop from the cloud , Mrs. Joel say , for all she expect of it .
Her husband be dead , and I guess he lead her a life of it when he be alive , and she 's as poor a second skimming .
She be aim to come here , Mrs. Joel say , but when she get to Oriental she be n't fit to stir a step far , and the Kents have to keep her .
I gather from what Mrs. Joel say that she 's rather touch in her mind too , and have an awful hankering to get home here -- to this very house .
She appear to have the idea that it be hers , and all just the same a it use to be .
I guess she be a sight of trouble , and Mrs. Joel ai n't the woman to like that .
But there !
She have to work most awful hard , and I suppose a sick person do n't come handy in a hotel .
I guess you 've get your revenge , Anna , without lift a finger to get it .
Think of Lou Carroll come to that ! ''
The next day be cold and raw .
The ragged , bare tree in the old Carroll ground shook and writhe in the gust of wind .
Now and then a drift scud of rain dash across the window .
Mrs. March look out with a shiver , and turn thankfully to her own cosy fireside again .
Presently she think she hear a low knock at the front door , and go to see .
As she open it a savage swirl of damp wind rush in , and the shrinking figure lean against one of the fluted column of the Grecian porch seem to cower before it fury .
It be a woman who stand there , a woman whose emaciated face wear a piteous expression , a she lift it to Mrs. March .
`` You do n't know me , of course , '' she say , with a feeble attempt at dignity .
`` I be Mrs. Baxter .
I -- I use to live here long ago .
I think I 'd walk over today and see my old home . ''
A fit of cough interrupt her word , and she tremble like a leaf .
`` Gracious me ! ''
exclaim Mrs. March blankly .
`` You do n't mean to tell me that you have walk over from Oriental today -- and you a sick woman !
For pity 's sake , come in , quick .
And if you 're not wet to the skin ! ''
She fairly pull her visitor into the hall , and lead her to the sitting-room .
`` Sit down .
Take this big easy-chair right up to the fire -- so .
Let me take your bonnet and shawl .
I must run right out to tell Hannah to get you a hot drink . ''
`` You be very kind , '' whisper the other .
`` I do n't know you , but you look like a woman I use to know when I be a girl .
She be a Mrs. Bennett , and she have a daughter , Anna .
Do you know what become of her ?
I forget .
I forget everything now . ''
`` My name be March , '' say Mrs. March briefly , ignore the question .
`` I do n't suppose you ever hear it before . ''
She wrap her own warm shawl about the other woman 's thin shoulder .
Then she hasten to the kitchen and soon return , carry a tray of food and a steaming hot drink .
She wheel a small table up to her visitor 's side and say , very kindly , `` Now , take a bite , my dear , and this raspberry vinegar will warm you right up .
It be a dreadful day for you to be out .
Why on earth do n't Joel Kent drive you over ? ''
`` They do n't know I be come , '' whisper Mrs. Baxter anxiously .
`` I -- I run away .
Sarah would n't have let me come if she have know .
But I want to come so much .
It be so nice to be home again . ''
Mrs. March watch her guest a she eat and drank .
It be plain enough that her mind , or rather her memory , be affect .
She do not realize that this be no long her home .
At moment she seem to fancy herself back in the past again .
Once or twice she call Mrs. March `` Mother . ''
Presently a sharp knock be hear at the hall door .
Mrs. March excuse herself and go out .
In the porch stand Theodosia Stapp and a woman whom Mrs. March do not at first glance recognize -- a tall , aggressive-looking person , whose sharp black eye dart in past Mrs. March and search every corner of the hall before anyone have time to speak .
`` Lawful heart ! ''
puffed Mrs. Stapp , a she step in out of the biting wind .
`` I 'm right out of breath .
Mrs. March , allow me to introduce Mrs. Kent .
We 're look for Mrs. Baxter .
She have run away , and we think perhaps she come here .
Did she ? ''
`` She be in my sitting-room now , '' say Mrs. March quietly .
`` Did n't I say so ? ''
demand Mrs. Kent , turn to Mrs. Stapp .
She speak in a sharp , high-pitched tone that grate on Mrs. March 's nerve .
`` Does n't she beat all !
She slip away this morning when I be busy in the kitchen .
And to think of her walk six mile over here in this wind !
I dunno how she do it .
I do n't believe she 's half as sick a she pretend .
Well , I 've get my wagon out here , Mrs. March , and I 'll be much oblige if you 'll tell her I 'm here to take her home .
I s ` pose we 'll have a fearful scene . ''
`` I do n't see that there be any call for a scene , '' say Mrs. March firmly .
`` The poor woman have just get here , and she think she have get home .
She might as well think so if it be of any comfort to her .
You 'd better leave her here . ''
Theodosia give a stifled gasp of amazement , but Mrs. March go serenely on .
`` I 'll take care of the poor soul as long a she need it -- and that will not be very long in my opinion , for if ever I saw death in a woman 's face , it be look out of hers .
I 've plenty of time to look after her and make her comfortable . ''
Mrs. Joel Kent be voluble in her thanks .
It be evident that she be delight to get the sick woman off her hand .
Mrs. March cut her short with an invitation to stay to tea , but Mrs. Kent decline .
`` I 've get to hurry home straight off and get the men 's supper .
Such a scamper to have over that woman !
I 'm sure I 'm thankful you 're willing to let her stay , for she 'd never be content anywhere else .
I 'll send over what few thing she have tomorrow . ''
When Mrs. Kent have go , Mrs. March and Mrs. Stapp look at each other .
`` And so this be your revenge , Anna March ? ''
say the latter solemnly .
`` Do you remember what you say to me about her ? ''
`` Yes , I do , Theodosia , and I think I mean every word of it .
But I guess my wicked streak run out just when I need it to depend on .
Besides , you see , I 've think of Lou Carroll all these year a she be when I know her -- handsome and saucy and proud .
But that poor creature in there be n't any more like the Lou Carroll I know than you be -- not a mite .
The old Lou Carroll be dead already , and my spite be dead with her .
Will you come in and see her ? ''
`` Well , no , not just now .
She would n't know me , and Mrs. Joel say stranger kind of excite her -- a pretty bad place the hotel would be for her at that rate , I should think .
I must go and tell Peter about it , and I 'll send up some of my black currant jam for her . ''
When Mrs. Stapp have go , Mrs. March go back to her guest .
Lou Baxter have fall asleep with her head pillow on the soft plush back of her chair .
Mrs. March look at the hollow , hectic cheek and the change , waste feature , and her bright brown eye soften with tear .
`` Poor Lou , '' she say softly , a she brush a loose lock of grey hair back from the sleep woman 's brow .
Nan Nan be polish the tumbler at the pantry window , outside of which John Osborne be lean among the vine .
His arm be fold on the sill and his straw hat be push back from his flush , eager face a he watch Nan 's deft movement .
Beyond them , old Abe Stewart be mow the grass in the orchard with a scythe and cast uneasy glance at the pair .
Old Abe do not approve of John Osborne a a suitor for Nan .
John be poor ; and old Abe , although he be the wealthy farmer in Granville , be bend on Nan 's make a good match .
He look upon John Osborne a a mere fortune-hunter , and it be a thorn in the flesh to see him talk to Nan while he , old Abe , be too far away to hear what they be say .
He have a good deal of confidence in Nan , she be a sensible , level-headed girl .
Still , there be no know what freak even a sensible girl might take into her head , and Nan be so determined when she do make up her mind .
She be his own daughter in that .
However , old Abe need not have worry himself .
It could not be say that Nan be help John Osborne on in his wooing at all .
Instead , she be tease and snub him by turn .
Nan be very pretty .
Moreover , Nan be well aware of the fact .
She know that the way her dark hair curl around her ear and forehead be bewitch ; that her complexion be the envy of every girl in Granville ; that her long lash have a trick of droop over very soft , dark eye in a fashion calculate to turn masculine head hopelessly .
John Osborne know all this too , to his cost .
He have call to ask Nan to go with him to the Lone Lake picnic the next day .
At this request Nan drop her eye and murmur that she be sorry , but he be too late -- she have promise to go with somebody else .
There be no need of Nan 's making such a mystery about it .
The somebody else be her only cousin , Ned Bennett , who have have a quarrel with his own girl ; the latter live at Lone Lake , and Ned have coax Nan to go over with him and try her hand at patch matter up between him and his offended lady-love .
And Nan , who be an amiable creature and tender-hearted where anybody 's lover except her own be concern , have agree to go .
But John Osborne at once jump to the conclusion -- a Nan have very possibly mean him to do -- that the mysterious somebody be Bryan Lee , and the thought be gall and wormwood to him .
`` Whom be you go with ? ''
he ask .
`` That would be tell , '' Nan say , with madden indifference .
`` Is it Bryan Lee ? ''
demand John .
`` It might be , '' say Nan reflectively , `` and then again , you know , it might n't . ''
John be silent ; he be no match for Nan when it come to a war of word .
He scowl moodily at the shin tumbler .
`` Nan , I 'm go out west , '' he say finally .
Nan star at him with her last tumbler poise in mid-air , very much a if he have announce his intention of go to the North Pole or Equatorial Africa .
`` John Osborne , be you crazy ? ''
`` Not quite .
And I 'm in earnest , I can tell you that . ''
Nan set the glass down with a decided thud .
John 's curtness displease her .
He need n't suppose that it make any difference to her if he take it into his stupid head to go to Afghanistan .
`` Oh ! ''
she remark carelessly .
`` Well , I suppose if you 've get the Western fever your case be hopeless .
Would it be impertinent to inquire why you be go ? ''
`` There 's nothing else for me to do , Nan , '' say John , `` Bryan Lee be go to foreclose the mortgage next month and I 'll have to clear out .
He say he ca n't wait any long .
I 've work hard enough and do my best to keep the old place , but it 's be uphill work and I 'm beat at last . ''
Nan sit blankly down on the stool by the window .
Her face be a study which John Osborne , watch old Abe 's movement , miss .
`` Well , I never ! ''
she gasp .
`` John Osborne , do you mean to tell me that Bryan Lee be go to do that ?
How do he come to get your mortgage ? ''
`` Bought it from old Townsend , '' answer John briefly .
`` Oh , he 's within his right , I 'll admit .
I 've even get behind with the interest this past year .
I 'll go out west and begin over again . ''
`` It 's a burning shame ! ''
say Nan violently .
John look around in time to see two very red spot on her cheek .
`` You do n't care though , Nan . ''
`` I do n't like to see anyone unjustly treat , '' declare Nan , `` and that be what you 've be .
You 've never have half a chance .
And after the way you 've slave , too ! ''
`` If Lee would wait a little I might do something yet , now that Aunt Alice be go , '' say John bitterly .
`` I 'm not afraid of work .
But he wo n't ; he mean to take his spite out at last . ''
Nan hesitate .
`` Surely Bryan be n't so mean a that , '' she stammer .
`` Perhaps he 'll change his mind if -- if -- '' Osborne wheel about with face aflame .
`` Do n't you say a word to him about it , Nan ! ''
he cry .
`` Do n't you go intercede with him for me .
I 've get some pride leave .
He can take the farm from me , and he can take you maybe , but he ca n't take my self-respect .
I wo n't beg him for mercy .
Do n't you dare to say a word to him about it . ''
Nan 's eye flash .
She be offend to find her sympathy flung back in her face .
`` Do n't be alarm , '' she say tartly .
`` I sha n't bother myself about your concern .
I 've no doubt you 're able to look out for them yourself . ''
Osborne turn away .
As he do so he saw Bryan Lee drive up the lane .
Perhaps Nan saw it too .
At any rate , she lean out of the window .
`` John !
John ! ''
Osborne half turn .
`` You 'll be up again soon , wo n't you ? ''
His face harden .
`` I 'll come to say goodbye before I go , of course , '' he answer shortly .
He come face to face with Lee at the gate , where the latter be tie his sleek chestnut to a poplar .
He acknowledge his rival 's condescend nod with a scowl .
Lee look after him with a satisfied smile .
`` Poor beggar ! ''
he mutter .
`` He feel pretty cheap I reckon .
I 've spoil his chance in this quarter .
Old Abe do n't want any poverty-stricken hanger-on about his place and Nan wo n't dream of take him when she know he have n't a roof over his head . ''
He stop for a chat with old Abe .
Old Abe approve of Bryan Lee .
He be a son-in-law after old Abe 's heart .
Meanwhile , Nan have seat herself at the pantry window and be ostentatiously hem towel in apparent oblivion of suitor No . 2 .
Nevertheless , when Bryan come up she greet him with an unusually sweet smile and at once plunge into an animated conversation .
Bryan have not come to ask her to go to the picnic -- business prevent him from go .
But he mean to find out if she be go with John Osborne .
As Nan be serenely impervious to all hint , he be finally force to ask her bluntly if she be go to the picnic .
Well , yes , she expect to .
Oh !
Might he ask with whom ?
Nan do n't know that it be a question of public interest at all .
`` It be n't with that Osborne fellow , be it ? ''
demand Bryan incautiously .
Nan toss her head .
`` Well , why not ? ''
she ask .
`` Look here , Nan , '' say Lee angrily , `` if you 're go to the picnic with John Osborne I 'm surprised at you .
What do you mean by encourage him so ?
He 's as poor a Job 's turkey .
I suppose you 've hear that I 've be compel to foreclose the mortgage on his farm . ''
Nan keep her temper sweetly -- a dangerous sign , have Bryan but know it .
`` Yes ; he be tell me so this morning , '' she answer slowly .
`` Oh , be he ?
I suppose he give me my character ? ''
`` No ; he do n't say very much about it at all .
He say of course you be within your right .
But do you really mean to do it , Bryan ? ''
`` Of course I do , '' say Bryan promptly .
`` I ca n't wait any long for my money , and I 'd never get it if I do .
Osborne ca n't even pay the interest . ''
`` It be n't because he have n't work hard enough , then , '' say Nan .
`` He have just slave on that place ever since he grow up . ''
`` Well , yes , he have work hard in a way .
But he 's kind of shiftless , for all that -- no manager , a you might say .
Some folk would have be clear by now , but Osborne be one of those men that be bind to get behind .
He have n't get any business faculty . ''
`` He be n't shiftless , '' say Nan quickly , `` and it be n't his fault if he have get behind .
It 's all because of his care for his aunt .
He have have to spend more on her doctor 's bill than would have raise the mortgage .
And now that she be dead and he might have a chance to pull up , you go and foreclose . ''
`` A man must look out for Number One , '' say Bryan easily , admire Nan 's downcast eye and rosy cheek .
`` I have n't any spite against Osborne , but business be business , you know . ''
Nan open her lip to say something but , remember Osborne 's part injunction , she shut them again .
She shoot a scornful glance at Lee a he stand with his arm fold on the sill beside her .
Bryan linger , talk small talk , until Nan announce that she must see about get tea .
`` And you wo n't tell me who be go to take you to the picnic ? ''
he coax .
`` Oh , it 's Ned Bennett , '' say Nan indifferently .
Bryan felt relieve .
He unpin the huge cluster of violet on his coat and lay them down on the sill beside her before he go .
Nan flick them off with her finger a she watch him cross the lawn , his own self-satisfied smile upon his face .
* * * * * A week later the Osborne homestead have pass into Bryan Lee 's hand and John Osborne be stay with his cousin at Thornhope , pending his departure for the west .
He have never be to see Nan since that last afternoon , but Bryan Lee haunt the Stewart place .
One day he suddenly stop come and , although Nan be discreetly silent , in due time it come to old Abe 's ear by various driblet of gossip that Nan have refuse him .
Old Abe march straightway home to Nan in a fury and demand if this be true .
Nan curtly admit that it be .
Old Abe be so much take aback by her coolness that he ask almost meekly what be her reason for do such a fool trick .
`` Because he turn John Osborne out of house and home , '' return Nan composedly .
`` If he have n't do that there be no tell what might have happen .
I might even have marry him , because I like him very well and it would have please you .
At any rate , I would n't have marry John when you be against him .
Now I mean to . ''
Old Abe storm furiously at this , but Nan keep so provokingly cool that he be conscious of waste breath .
He go off in a rage , but Nan do not feel particularly anxious now that the announcement be over .
He would cool down , she know .
John Osborne worry her more .
She do n't see clearly how she be to marry him unless he ask her , and he have studiously avoid her since the foreclosure .
But Nan do not mean to be baffle or to let her lover slip through her finger for want of a little courage .
She be not old Abe Stewart 's daughter for nothing .
One day Ned Bennett drop in and say that John Osborne would start for the west in three day .
That even Nan go up to her room and dress herself in the prettiest dress she own , comb her hair around her sparkle face in bewitch curl , pin a cluster of apple blossom at her belt , and , thus equip , march down in the golden sunset light to the Mill Creek Bridge .
John Osborne , on his return from Thornhope half an hour later , find her there , lean over the rail among the willow .
Nan start in well-assumed surprise and then ask him why he have not be to see her .
John blush -- stammer -- do n't know -- have be busy .
Nan cut short his halt excuse by demand to know if he be really go away , and what he intend to do .
`` I 'll go out on the prairie and take up a claim , '' say Osborne sturdily .
`` Begin life over again free of debt .
It 'll be hard work , but I 'm not afraid of that .
I will succeed if it take me year . ''
They walk on in silence .
Nan come to the conclusion that Osborne mean to hold his peace .
`` John , '' she say tremulously , `` wo n't -- wo n't you find it very lonely out there ? ''
`` Of course -- I expect that .
I shall have to get use to it . ''
Nan grow nervous .
Proposing to a man be really very dreadful .
`` Would n't it be -- nicer for you '' -- she falter -- `` that be -- it would n't be so lonely for you -- would it -- if -- if you have me out there with you ? ''
John Osborne stop squarely in the dusty road and look at her .
`` Nan ! ''
he exclaim .
`` Oh , if you ca n't take a hint ! ''
say Nan in despair .
It be all of an hour later that a man drove past them a they loiter up the hill road in the twilight .
It be Bryan Lee ; he have take from Osborne his house and land , but he have not be able to take Nan Stewart , after all .
Natty of Blue Point Natty Miller stroll down to the wharf where Bliss Ford be tie up the Cockawee .
Bliss be scowl darkly at the boat , a trim new one , paint white , whose furl sail seem unaccountably wet and whose glisten interior likewise drip with moisture .
A group of fisherman on the wharf be shake their head sagely a Natty draw near .
`` Might as well split her up for kindling , Bliss , '' say Jake McLaren .
`` You 'll never get men to sail in her .
It pass the first time , see a only young Johnson be skipper , but when a boat turn turtle with Captain Frank in command , there 's something serious wrong with her . ''
`` What 's up ? ''
ask Natty .
`` The Cockawee upset out in the bay again this morning , '' answer Will Scott .
`` That 's the second time .
The Grey Gull pick up the men and tow her in .
It 's no use try to sail her .
Lobstermen ai n't go to risk their life in a boat like that .
How 's thing over at Blue Point , Natty ? ''
`` Pretty well , '' respond Natty laconically .
Natty never waste word .
He have not talk a great deal in his fourteen year of life , but he be much give to think .
He be rather undersized and insignificant look , but there be a few boy of his own age on the mainland who know that Natty have muscle .
`` Has Everett hear anything from Ottawa about the lighthouse business yet ? ''
ask Will .
Natty shake his head .
`` Think he 's any chance of get the app ` intment ? ''
query Adam Lewis .
`` Not the ghost of a chance , '' say Cooper Creasy decidedly .
`` He 's on the wrong side of politics , that 's what .
Er rather his father be .
A Tory 's son ai n't go to get an app ` intment from a Lib ` ral government , that 's what . ''
`` Mr. Barr say that Everett be too young to be trust in such a responsible position , '' quote Natty gravely .
Cooper shrug his shoulder .
`` Mebbe -- mebbe .
Eighteen be kind of green , but everybody know that Ev 's be the real lighthouse keeper for two year , since your father take sick .
Irving Elliott want that light -- have want it for year -- and he 's a pretty strong pull at headquarters , that 's what .
Barr owe him something for year of hard work at election .
I ai n't say anything against Elliott , either .
He 's a good man , but your father 's son ought to have that light as sure a he wo n't get it , that 's what . ''
`` Any of you go to take in the sport tomorrow down at Summerside ? ''
ask Will Scott , in order to switch Cooper away from politics , which be apt to excite him .
`` I 'm go , for one , '' say Adam .
`` There 's to be a yacht race atween the Summerside and Charlottetown boat club .
Yes , I be go .
Give you a chance down to the station , Natty , if you want one . ''
Natty shake his head .
`` Not go , '' he say briefly .
`` You should celebrate Victoria Day , '' say Adam , patriotically . ''
` Twenty-fourth o ' May 's the Queen 's birthday , Ef we do n't get a holiday we 'll all run away , ' a we use to say at school .
The good old Queen be dead , but the day 's be app ` inted a national holiday in honour of her memory and you should celebrate it become , Natty-boy . ''
`` Ev and I ca n't both go , and he 's go , '' explain Natty .
`` Prue and I 'll stay home to light up .
Must be get back now .
Looks squally . ''
`` I misdoubt if we 'll have Queen 's weather tomorrow , '' say Cooper , squint critically at the sky .
`` Looks like a northeast blow , that 's what .
There go Bliss , stride off and look pretty mad .
The Cockawee 's a dead loss to him , that 's what .
Nat 's off -- he know how to handle a boat middle well , too .
Pity he 's such a puny youngster .
Not much to him , I reckon . ''
Natty have cast loose in his boat , the Merry Maid , and hoist his sail .
In a few minute he be skim gaily down the bay .
The wind be fair and piping and the Merry Maid go like a bird .
Natty , at the rudder , steer for Blue Point Island , a reflective frown on his face .
He be feel in no mood for Victoria Day sport .
In a very short time he and Ev and Prue must leave Blue Point lighthouse , where they have live all their life .
To Natty it seem a if the end of all thing would come then .
Where would life be worth live away from lonely , windy Blue Point Island ?
David Miller have die the precede winter after a long illness .
He have be lighthouse keeper at Blue Point for thirty year .
His three child have be bear and bring up there , and there , four year ago , the mother have die .
But womanly little Prue have take her place well , and the boy be devote to their sister .
When their father die , Everett have apply for the position of lighthouse keeper .
The matter be not yet publicly decide , but old Cooper Creasy have size the situation up accurately .
The Millers have no real hope that Everett would be appoint .
Victoria Day , while not absolutely stormy , prove to be rather unpleasant .
A choppy northeast wind blow up the bay , and the water be rough enough .
The sky be overcast with cloud , and the May air be raw and chilly .
At Blue Point the Millers be early astir , for if Everett want to sail over to the mainland in time to catch the excursion train , no morning nap be permissible .
He be go alone .
Since only one of the boy could go , Natty have insist that it should be Everett , and Prue have elect to stay home with Natty .
Prue have small heart for Victoria Day that year .
She do not feel even a thrill of enthusiasm when Natty hoist a flag and wreathe the Queen 's picture with creep spruce .
Prue felt a badly about leave Blue Point Island a the boy do .
The day pass slowly .
In the afternoon the wind fell away to a dead calm , but there be still a heavy swell on , and shortly before sunset a fog come creep up from the east and spread over the bay and island , so thick and white that Prue and Natty could not even see Little Bear Island on the right .
`` I 'm glad Everett be n't come back tonight , '' say Prue .
`` He could never find his way cross the harbour in that fog . ''
`` Is n't it thick , though , '' say Natty .
`` The light wo n't show far tonight . ''
At sunset they light the great lamp and then settle down to an evening of reading .
But it be not long before Natty look up from his book to say , `` Hello , Prue , what be that ?
Thought I hear a noise . ''
`` So do I , '' say Prue .
`` I sound like someone call . ''
They hurry to the door , which look out on the harbour .
The night , owe to the fog , be dark with a darkness that seem almost tangible .
From somewhere out of that darkness come a muffled shouting , like that of a person in distress .
`` Prue , there 's somebody in trouble out there ! ''
exclaim Natty .
`` Oh , it 's surely never Ev ! ''
cry Prue .
Natty shake his head .
`` Do n't think so .
Ev have no intention of come back tonight .
Get that lantern , Prue .
I must go and see what and who it be . ''
`` Oh , Natty , you must n't , '' cry Prue in distress .
`` There 's a heavy swell on yet -- and the fog -- oh , if you get lose -- '' `` I 'll not get lose , and I must go , Prue .
Maybe somebody be drown out there .
It 's not Ev , of course , but suppose it be !
That 's a good girl . ''
Prue , with set face , have bring the lantern , resolutely choke back the word of fear and protest that rush to her lip .
They hurry down to the shore and Natty spring into the little skiff he use for rowing .
He hastily lash the lantern in the stern , cast loose the painter , and lift the oar .
`` I 'll be back as soon a possible , '' he call to Prue .
`` Wait here for me . ''
In a minute the shore be out of sight , and Natty find himself alone in the black fog , with no guide but the cry for help , which already be become fainter .
They seem to come from the direction of Little Bear , and thither Natty row .
It be a tough pull , and the water be rough enough for the little dory .
But Natty have be at home with the oar from babyhood , and his long training and tough sinew stand him in good stead now .
Steadily and intrepidly he row along .
The water grow rougher a he pass out from the shelter of Blue Point into the channel between the latter and Little Bear .
The cry be become very faint .
What if he should be too late ?
He bend to the oar with all his energy .
Presently , by the smoother water , he know he must be in the lea of Little Bear .
The cry sound nearer .
He must already have row nearly a mile .
The next minute he shoot around a small headland and right before him , dimly visible in the faint light cast by the lantern through the fog , be an upturned boat with two men cling to it , one on each side , evidently almost exhaust .
Natty row cautiously up to the one near him , know that he must be wary l the grip of the drown man overturn his own light skiff .
`` Let go when I say , '' he shout , `` and do n't -- grab -- anything , do you hear ?
Do n't -- grab .
Now , let go . ''
The next minute the man lay in the dory , drag over the stern by Netty 's grip on his collar .
`` Lie still , '' order Natty , clutch the oar .
To row around the overturned boat , amid the swirl of water about her , be a task that tax Netty 's skill and strength to the utmost .
The other man be drag in over the bow , and with a gasp of relief Natty pull away from the sinking boat .
Once clear of her he could not row for a few minute ; he be shake from head to foot with the reaction from tremendous effort and strain .
`` This 'll never do , '' he mutter .
`` I 'm not go to be a baby now .
But will I ever be able to row back ? ''
Presently , however , he be able to grip his oar again and pull for the lighthouse , whose beacon loom dimly through the fog like a great blur of white mist .
The men , obedient to his order , lay quietly where he have place them , and before long Natty be back again at the lighthouse landing , where Prue be wait , wild with anxiety .
The men be help out and assist up to the lighthouse , where Natty go to hunt up dry clothes for them , and Prue fly about to prepare hot drink .
`` To think that that child save u ! ''
exclaim one of the men .
`` Why , I do n't think a grown man have the strength to do what he do .
He be your brother , I suppose , Miss Miller .
You have another brother , I think ? ''
`` Oh , yes -- Everett -- but he be away , '' explain Prue .
`` We hear your shout and Natty insist on go at once to your rescue . ''
`` Well , he come just in time .
I could n't have hold on another minute -- be so do up I could n't have move or speak all the way here even if he have n't command me to keep perfectly still . ''
Natty return at this moment and exclaim , `` Why , it be Mr. Barr .
I do n't recognize you before . ''
`` Barr it be , young man .
This gentleman be my friend , Mr. Blackmore .
We have be celebrate Victoria Day by a shooting tramp over Little Bear .
We hire a boat from Ford at the Harbour Head this morning -- the Cockawee , he call her -- and sail over .
I do n't know much about run a boat , but Blackmore here think he do .
We be at the other side of the island when the fog come up .
We hurry across it , but it be almost dark when we reach our boat .
We sail around the point and then the boat just simply upset -- do n't know why -- '' `` But I know why , '' interrupt Natty indignantly .
`` That Cockawee do nothing but upset .
She have turn turtle twice out in the harbour in fine weather .
Ford be a rascal to let her to you .
He might have know what would happen .
Why -- why -- it be almost murder to let you go ! ''
`` I think there must be something queer about her , '' declare Mr. Blackmore .
`` I do know how to handle a boat despite my friend 's gibe , and there be no reason why she should have upset like that .
That Ford ought to be horsewhip . ''
Thanks to Prue 's sting hot decoction of black currant drink , the two gentleman be no bad for their drenching and exposure , and the next morning Natty take them to the mainland in the Merry Maid .
When he part with them , Mr. Barr shake his hand heartily and say : `` Thank you , my boy .
You 're a plucky youngster and a skilful one , too .
Tell your brother that if I can get the Blue Point lighthouse berth for him I will , and a for yourself , you will always find a friend in me , and if I can ever do anything for you I will . ''
Two week later Everett receive an official document formally appoint him keeper of Blue Point Island light .
Natty carry the news to the mainland , where it be joyfully receive among the fisherman .
`` Only right and fair , '' say Cooper Creasy .
`` Blue Point without a Miller to light up would n't seem the thing at all , that 's what .
And it 's nothing but Ev 's doo . ''
`` Guess Natty have more to do with it than Ev , '' say Adam , perpetrate a very poor pun and be immensely applaud therefor .
It key Will Scott up to rival Adam .
`` You say that Irving have a pull and the Millers have n't , '' he say jocularly .
`` But it look a if 't be Natty 's pull do the business after all -- his pull over to Bear Island and back . ''
`` It be about a miracle that a boy could do what he do on such a night , '' say Charles Macey .
`` Where 's Ford ? ''
ask Natty uncomfortably .
He hat to have his exploit talk about .
`` Ford have clear out , '' say Cooper , `` go down to Summerside to go into Tobe Meekins 's factory there .
Best thing he could do , that 's what .
Folks here have n't no use for him after let that death trap to them two men -- even if they be Lib ` rals .
The Cockawee druv ashore on Little Bear , and there she 's go to remain , I guess .
D 'ye want a berth in my mackerel boat this summer , Natty ? ''
`` I do , '' say Natty , `` but I think you say you be full . ''
`` I guess I can make room for you , '' say Cooper .
`` A boy with such grit and muscle ai n't to be allow to go to seed on Blue Point , that 's what .
Yesser , we 'll make room for you . ''
And Natty 's cup of happiness be full .
Penelope 's Party Waist `` It 's perfectly horrid to be so poor , '' grumble Penelope .
Penelope do not often grumble , but just now , a she sit tap with one pink-tipped finger her invitation to Blanche Anderson 's party , she felt that grumbling be the only relief she have .
Penelope be seventeen , and when one be seventeen and can not go to a party because one have n't a suitable dress to wear , the world be very apt to seem a howling wilderness .
`` I wish I could think of some way to get you a new waist , '' say Doris , with what these sister call `` the poverty pucker '' come in the centre of her pretty forehead .
`` If your black skirt be sponge and press and re-hung , it would do very well . ''
Penelope saw the poverty pucker and immediately repent with all her impetuous heart have grumble .
That pucker come often enough without be bring there by extra worry .
`` Well , there be no use sit here sigh for the unattainable , '' she say , jump up briskly .
`` I 'd well be put my grey matter into that algebra instead of waste it plot for a party dress that I certainly ca n't get .
It 's a sad thing for a body to lack brain when she want to be a teacher , be n't it ?
If I could only absorb algebra and history a I can music , what a blessing it would be !
Come now , Dorrie dear , smooth that pucker out .
Next year I shall be earn a princely salary , which we can squander on party gown at will -- if people have n't give up invite u by that time , in sheer despair of ever be able to conquer our exclusiveness . ''
Penelope go off to her detested algebra with a laugh , but the pucker do not go out of Doris ' forehead .
She want Penelope to go to that party .
Penelope have study so hard all winter and she have n't go anywhere , think the old sister wistfully .
She be get discourage over those examination and she need just a good , jolly time to hearten her up .
If it could only be manage !
But Doris do not see how it could .
It take every cent of her small salary a typewriter in an uptown office to run their tiny establishment and keep Penelope in school dress and book .
Indeed , she could not have do even that much if they have not own their little cottage .
Next year it would be easy if Penelope get through her examination successfully , but just now there be absolutely not a spare penny .
`` It be hard to be poor .
We be a pair of misfit , '' say Doris , with a patient little smile , thinking of Penelope 's uncultivated talent for music and her own housewifely gift , which have small chance of flower out in her business life .
Doris dream of pretty dress all that night and thought about them all the next day .
So , it must be confess , do Penelope , though she would not have admit it for the world .
When Doris reach home the next evening , she find Penelope hover over a bulky parcel on the sitting-room table .
`` I 'm so glad you 've come , '' she say with an exaggerated gasp of relief .
`` I really do n't think my curiosity could have bear the strain for another five minute .
The expressman bring this parcel an hour ago , and there 's a letter for you from Aunt Adella on the clock shelf , and I think they belong to each other .
Hurry up and find out .
Dorrie , darling , what if it should be a -- a -- present of some sort or other ! ''
`` I suppose it ca n't be anything else , '' smile Doris .
She know that Penelope have start out to say `` a new dress . ''
She cut the string and remove the wrapping .
Both girl star .
`` Is it -- it be n't -- yes , it be !
Doris Hunter , I believe it 's an old quilt ! ''
Doris unfold the odd present with a queer feeling of disappointment .
She do not know just what she have expect the package to contain , but certainly not this .
She laugh a little shakily .
`` Well , we ca n't say after this that Aunt Adella never give u anything , '' she say , when she have open her letter .
`` Listen , Penelope . ''
My Dear Doris : I have decide to give up housekeeping and go out West to live with Robert .
So I be dispose of such of the family heirlooms a I do not wish to take with me .
I be send you by express your Grandmother Hunter 's silk quilt .
It be a handsome article still and I hope you will prize it a you should .
It take your grandmother five year to make it .
There be a bit of the wedding dress of every member of the family in it .
Love to Penelope and yourself .
Your affectionate aunt , Adella Hunter .
`` I do n't see it beauty , '' say Penelope with a grimace .
`` It may have be pretty once , but it be all fade now .
It be a monument of patience , though .
The pattern be what they call ` Little Thousands , ' be n't it ?
Tell me , Dorrie , do it argue a lack of proper respect for my ancestor that I ca n't feel very enthusiastic over this heirloom -- especially when Grandmother Hunter die year before I be bear ? ''
`` It be very kind of Aunt Adella to send it , '' say Doris dutifully .
`` Oh , very , '' agree Penelope drolly .
`` Only do n't ever ask me to sleep under it .
It would give me the nightmare .
O-o-h ! ''
This last be a little squeal of admiration a Doris turn the quilt over and bring to view the shimmering lining .
`` Why , the wrong side be ever so much pretty than the right ! ''
exclaim Penelope .
`` What lovely , old-timey stuff !
And not a bit faded . ''
The lining be certainly very pretty .
It be a soft , creamy yellow silk , with a design of brocaded pink rosebuds all over it .
`` That be a dress Grandmother Hunter have when she be a girl , '' say Doris absently .
`` I remember hear Aunt Adella speak of it .
When it become old-fashioned , Grandmother use it to line her quilt .
I declare , it be as good a new . ''
`` Well , let u go and have tea , '' say Penelope .
`` I 'm decidedly hungry .
Besides , I see the poverty pucker come .
Put the quilt in the spare room .
It be something to possess an heirloom , after all .
It give one a nice , important-family feeling . ''
After tea , when Penelope be patiently grind away at her study and think dolefully enough of the near-approaching examination , which she dread , and of teaching , which she confidently expect to hate , Doris go up to the tiny spare room to look at the wrong side of the quilt again .
`` It would make the lovely party waist , '' she say under her breath .
`` Creamy yellow be Penelope 's colour , and I could use that bit of old black lace and those knot of velvet ribbon that I have to trim it .
I wonder if Grandmother Hunter 's reproachful spirit will forever haunt me if I do it . ''
Doris know very well that she would do it -- have know it ever since she have look at that lovely lining and a vision of Penelope 's vivid face and red-brown hair rise above a waist of the quaint old silk have flash before her mental sight .
That night , after Penelope have go to bed , Doris rip the line out of Grandmother Hunter 's silk quilt .
`` If Aunt Adella saw me now ! ''
she laugh softly to herself a she work .
In the three follow evening Doris make the waist .
She think it a wonderful bit of good luck that Penelope go out each of the evening to study some especially difficult problem with a school chum .
`` It will be such a nice surprise for her , '' the sister muse jubilantly .
Penelope be surprise as much a the tender , sisterly heart could wish when Doris flash out upon her triumphantly on the evening of the party with the black skirt nicely press and re-hung , and the pretty waist imaginable -- a waist that be a positive `` creation '' of dainty rose-besprinkled silk , with a girdle and knot of black velvet .
`` Doris Hunter , you be a veritable little witch !
Do you mean to tell me that you conjure that perfectly lovely thing for me out of the lining of Grandmother Hunter 's quilt ? ''
So Penelope go to Blanche 's party and her dress be the admiration of every girl there .
Mrs. Fairweather , who be visit Mrs. Anderson , look closely at it also .
She be a very sweet old lady , with silver hair , which she wear in delightful , old-fashioned puff , and she have very bright , dark eye .
Penelope think her altogether charming .
`` She look a if she have just step out of the frame of some lovely old picture , '' she say to herself .
`` I wish she belong to me .
I 'd just love to have a grandmother like her .
And I do wonder who it be I 've see who look so much like her . ''
A little later on the knowledge come to her suddenly , and she think with inward surprise : Why , it be Doris , of course .
If my sister Doris live to be seventy year old and wear her hair in pretty white puff , she will look exactly a Mrs. Fairweather do now .
Mrs. Fairweather ask to have Penelope introduce to her , and when they find themselves alone together she say gently , `` My dear , I be go to ask a very impertinent question .
Will you tell me where you get the silk of which your waist be make ? ''
Poor Penelope 's pretty young face turn crimson .
She be not troubled with false pride by any mean , but she simply could not bring herself to tell Mrs. Fairweather that her waist be make out of the lining of an old heirloom quilt .
`` My Aunt Adella give me -- give u -- the material , '' she stammer .
`` And my elder sister Doris make the waist for me .
I think the silk once belong to my Grandmother Hunter . ''
`` What be your grandmother 's maiden name ? ''
ask Mrs. Fairweather eagerly .
`` Penelope Saverne .
I be name after her . ''
Mrs. Fairweather suddenly put her arm about Penelope and draw the young girl to her , her lovely old face aglow with delight and tenderness .
`` Then you be my grandniece , '' she say .
`` Your grandmother be my half-sister .
When I saw your dress , I felt sure you be relate to her .
I should recognize that rosebud silk if I come across it in Thibet .
Penelope Saverne be the daughter of my mother by her first husband .
Penelope be four year old than I be , but we be devote to each other .
Oddly enough , our birthday fell on the same day , and when Penelope be twenty and I sixteen , my father give u each a silk dress of this very material .
I have mine yet .
`` Soon after this our mother die and our household be break up .
Penelope go to live with her aunt and I go West with Father .
This be long ago , you know , when travel and correspondence be not the easy , matter-of-course thing they be now .
After a few year I lose touch with my half-sister .
I marry out West and have live there all my life .
I never know what have become of Penelope .
But tonight , when I saw you come in in that waist make of the rosebud silk , the whole past rise before me and I felt like a girl again .
My dear , I be a very lonely old woman , with nobody belong to me .
You do n't know how delighted I be to find that I have two grandniece . ''
Penelope have listen silently , like a girl in a dream .
Now she pat Mrs. Fairweather 's soft old hand affectionately .
`` It sound like a storybook , '' she say gaily .
`` You must come and see Doris .
She be such a darling sister .
I would n't have have this waist if it have n't be for her .
I will tell you the whole truth -- I do n't mind it now .
Doris make my party waist for me out of the lining of an old silk quilt of Grandmother Hunter 's that Aunt Adella send u . ''
Mrs. Fairweather do go to see Doris the very next day , and quite wonderful thing come to pass from that interview .
Doris and Penelope find their life and plan change in the twinkling of an eye .
They be both to go and live with Aunt Esther -- a Mrs. Fairweather have say they must call her .
Penelope be to have , at last , her longed-for musical education and Doris be to be the home girl .
`` You must take the place of my own dear little granddaughter , '' say Aunt Esther .
`` She die six year ago , and I have be so lonely since . ''
When Mrs. Fairweather have go , Doris and Penelope look at each other .
`` Pinch me , please , '' say Penelope .
`` I 'm half afraid I 'll wake up and find I have be dream .
Is n't it all wonderful , Doris Hunter ? ''
Doris nod radiantly .
`` Oh , Penelope , think of it !
Music for you -- somebody to pet and fuss over for me -- and such a dear , sweet aunty for u both ! ''
`` And no more contrive party waist out of old silk lining , '' laugh Penelope .
`` But it be very fortunate that you do it for once , sister mine .
And no more poverty pucker , '' she conclude .
The Girl and The Wild Race `` If Judith would only get marry , '' Mrs. Theodora Whitney be wont to sigh dolorously .
Now , there be no valid reason why Judith ought to get married unless she want to .
But Judith be twenty-seven and Mrs. Theodora think it be a terrible disgrace to be an old maid .
`` There have never be an old maid in our family so far back a we know of , '' she lament .
`` And to think that there should be one now !
It just drag u down to the level of the McGregors .
They have always be note for their old maid . ''
Judith take all her aunt 's lamentation good-naturedly .
Sometimes she argue the subject placidly .
`` Why be you in such a hurry to be rid of me , Aunt Theo ?
I 'm sure we 're very comfortable here together and you know you would miss me terribly if I go away . ''
`` If you take the right one you would n't go so very far , '' say Mrs. Theodora , darkly significant .
`` And , anyhow , I 'd put up with any amount of lonesomeness rather than have an old maid in the family .
It 's all very fine now , when you 're still young enough and good look , with lot of beau at your beck and call .
But that wo n't last much long and if you go on with your dilly-dallying you 'll wake up some fine day to find that your time for choose have go by .
Your mother use to be dreadful proud of your good look when you be a baby .
I tell her she need n't be .
Nine time out of ten a beauty do n't marry as well a an ordinary girl . ''
`` I 'm not much set on marry at all , '' declare Judith sharply .
Any reference to the `` right one '' always disturb her placidity .
The real root of the trouble be that Mrs. Theodora 's `` right one '' and Judith 's `` right one '' be two different people .
The Ramble Valley young men be very fond of dance attendance on Judith , even if she be verge on old maidenhood .
Her prettiness be undeniable ; the Stewarts come to maturity late and at twenty-seven Judith 's dower of milky-white flesh , dimple red lip and shin bronze hair be at it full splendor .
Besides , she be `` jolly , '' and jollity go a long way in Ramble Valley popularity .
Of all Judith 's admirer Eben King alone find favor in Mrs. Theodora 's eye .
He own the adjoining farm , be well off and homely -- so homely that Judith declare it make her eye ache to look at him .
Bruce Marshall , Judith 's `` right one '' be handsome , but Mrs. Theodora look upon him with sour disapproval .
He own a stony little farm at the remote end of Ramble Valley and be repute to be fond of many thing than of work .
To be sure , Judith have enough capability and energy for two ; but Mrs. Theodora detest a lazy man .
She order Judith not to encourage him and Judith obey .
Judith generally obey her aunt ; but , though she renounce Bruce Marshall , she would have nothing to do with Eben King or anybody else and all Mrs. Theodora 's grumbling do not mend matter .
The afternoon that Mrs. Tony Mack come in Mrs. Theodora felt more aggrieve than ever .
Ellie McGregor have be marry the previous week -- Ellie , who be the same age a Judith and not half so good look .
Mrs. Theodora have be nag Judith ever since .
`` But I might as well talk to the tree down there in that hollow , '' she complain to Mrs. Tony .
`` That girl be so set and contrary mind .
She do n't care a bit for my feeling . ''
This be not say behind Judith 's back .
The girl herself be stand at the open door , drink in all the delicate , evasive beauty of the spring afternoon .
The Whitney house crest a bare hill that look down on misty interval , feather with young fir that be golden green in the pale sunlight .
The field be bare and smoking , although the lane and shadowy place be full of moist snow .
Judith 's face be aglow with the delight of mere life and she bend out to front the brisk , dance wind that blow up from the valley , resinous with the odor of fir and damp moss .
At her aunt 's word the glow go out of her face .
She listen with her eye brood on the hollow and a glowing flame of temper smouldering in them .
Judith 's long patience be give way .
She have be flick on the raw too often of late .
And now her aunt be confide her grievance to Mrs. Tony Mack -- the most notorious gossip in Ramble Valley or out of it !
`` I ca n't sleep at night for worry over what will become of her when I 'm go , '' go on Mrs. Theodora dismally .
`` She 'll just have to live on alone here -- a lonesome , withered-up old maid .
And her that might have have her pick , Mrs. Tony , though I do say it as should n't .
You must feel real thankful to have all your girl marry off -- especially when none of them be extry good-looking .
Some people have all the luck .
I 'm tired of talk to Judith .
Folks 'll be say soon that nobody ever really want her , for all her flirting .
But she just wo n't marry . ''
`` I will ! ''
Judith whirl about on the sun warm door step and come in .
Her black eye be flash and her round cheek be crimson .
`` Such a temper you never saw ! ''
report Mrs. Tony afterwards .
`` Though ` twere n't to be wonder at .
Theodora be most awful aggravating . ''
`` I will , '' repeat Judith stormily .
`` I 'm tired of be nag day in and day out .
I 'll marry -- and what be more I 'll marry the very first man that ask me -- that I will , if it be old Widower Delane himself !
How do that suit you , Aunt Theodora ? ''
Mrs. Theodora 's mental process be never slow .
She drop her knit ball and stoop for it .
In that time she have decide what to do .
She know that Judith would stick to her word , Stewart-like , and she must trim her sail to catch this new wind .
`` It suit me real well , Judith , '' she say calmly , `` you can marry the first man that ask you and I 'll say no word to hinder . ''
The color go out of Judith 's face , leave it pale a ash .
Her hasty assertion have no sooner be utter than it be repent of , but she must stand by it now .
She go out of the kitchen without another glance at her aunt or the delighted Mrs. Tony and dash up the stair to her own little room which look out over the whole of Ramble Valley .
It be warm with the March sunshine and the leafless bough of the creeper that cover the end of the house be tap a gay tattoo on the window pane to the music of the wind .
Judith sit down in her little rocker and drop her point chin in her hand .
Far down the valley , over the fir on the McGregor hill and the blue mirror of the Cranston pond , Bruce Marshall 's little gray house peep out from a semicircle of white-stemmed birch .
She have not see Bruce since before Christmas .
He have be angry at her then because she have refuse to let him drive her home from prayer meeting .
Since then she have hear a rumor that he be go to see Kitty Leigh at the Upper Valley .
Judith look sombrely down at the Marshall homestead .
She have always love the quaint , picturesque old place , so different from all the commonplace spick and span new house of the prosperous valley .
Judith have never be able to decide whether she really care very much for Bruce Marshall or not , but she know that she love that ramble , cornery house of his , with the gable festoon with the real ivy that Bruce Marshall 's great-grandmother have bring with her from England .
Judith think contrastingly of Eben King 's staring , primrose-colored house in all it bare , intrusive grandeur .
She give a little shrug of distaste .
`` I wish Bruce knew of this , '' she think , flush even in her solitude at the idea .
`` Although if it be true that he be go to see Kitty Leigh I do n't suppose he 'd care .
And Aunt Theo will be sure to send word to Eben by hook or crook .
Whatever possess me to say such a mad thing ?
There go Mrs. Tony now , all agog to spread such a delectable bit of gossip . ''
Mrs. Tony have indeed go , refuse Mrs. Theodora 's invitation to stay to tea , so eager be she to tell her story .
And Mrs. Theodora , at that very minute , be out in her kitchen yard , give her instruction to Potter Vane , the twelve year old urchin who cut her wood and do sundry other chore for her .
`` Potter , '' she say , excitedly , `` run over to the Kings ' and tell Eben to come over here immediately -- no matter what he 's at .
Tell him I want to see him about something of the great importance . ''
Mrs. Theodora think that this be a master stroke .
`` That match be as good a make , '' she think triumphantly a she pick up chip to start the tea fire .
`` If Judith suspect that Eben be here she be quite likely to stay in her room and refuse to come down .
But if she do I 'll march him upstairs to her door and make him ask her through the keyhole .
You ca n't stump Theodora Whitney . ''
Alas !
Ten minute later Potter return with the unwelcome news that Eben be away from home .
`` He go to Wexbridge about half an hour ago , his ma say .
She say she 'd tell him to come right over as soon a he kem home . ''
Mrs. Theodora have to content herself with this , but she felt troubled .
She know Mrs. Tony Mack 's capability for spread news .
What if Bruce Marshall should hear it before Eben ?
That even Jacob Plowden 's store at Wexbridge be full of men , sit about on keg and counter or huddle around the stove , for the March air have grow sharp a the sun lower in the creamy sky over the Ramble Valley hill .
Eben King have a keg in the corner .
He be in no hurry to go home for he love gossip dearly and the Wexbridge store abound with it .
He have exhaust the news of Peter Stanley 's store across the bridge and now he mean to hear what be say at Plowden 's .
Bruce Marshall be there , too , buy grocery and be wait on by Nora Plowden , who be by no mean averse to the service , although a a rule her father 's customer receive scanty tolerance at her hand .
`` What be the Valley road like , Marshall ? ''
ask a Wexbridge man , between two squirt of tobacco juice .
`` Bad , '' say Bruce briefly .
`` Another warm day will finish the sleighing . ''
`` Are they cross at Malley 's Creek yet ? ''
ask Plowden .
`` No , Jack Carr get in there day before yesterday .
Nearly lose his mare .
I come round by the main road , '' respond Bruce .
The door open at this point and Tony Mack come in .
As soon a he close the door he double up in a fit of chuckle , which last until he be purple in the face .
`` Is the man crazy ? ''
demand Plowden , who have never see lean little Tony visit like this before .
`` Crazy nothin ' , '' retort Tony .
`` You 'll laugh too , when you hear it .
Such a joke !
Hee-tee-tee-hee-e .
Theodora Whitney have be badger Judith Stewart so much about bein ' an old maid that Judith 's get mad and vow she 'll marry the first man that ask her .
Hee-tee-tee-hee-e-e-e !
My old woman be there and hear her .
She 'll keep her word , too .
She ai n't old Joshua Stewart 's daughter for nothin ' .
If he say he 'd do a thing he do it if it tuck the hair off .
If I be a young feller now !
Hee-tee-tee-hee-e-e-e ! ''
Bruce Marshall swung round on one foot .
His face be crimson and if look could kill , Tony Mack would have fall dead in the middle of his snigger .
`` You need n't mind do up that parcel for me , '' he say to Nora .
`` I 'll not wait for it . ''
On his way to the door Eben King brush past him .
A shout of laughter from the assemble men follow them .
The others stream out in their wake , realize that a race be afoot .
Tony alone remain inside , helpless with chuckling .
Eben King 's horse be tie at the door .
He have nothing to do but step in and drive off .
Bruce have put his mare in at Billy Bender 's across the bridge , intend to spend the evening there .
He know that this would handicap him seriously , but he stride down the road with a determined expression on his handsome face .
Fifteen minute later he drive past the store , his gray mare go at a sharp gait .
The crowd in front of Plowden 's cheer him , their sympathy be with him for King be not popular .
Tony have come out and shout , `` Here 's luck to you , brother , '' after which he double up with renew laughter .
Such a lark !
And he , Tony , have set it afoot !
It would be a story to tell for year .
Marshall , with his lip set and his dreamy gray eye for once glitter with a steely light , urge Lady Jane up the Wexbridge hill .
From it top it be five mile to Ramble Valley by the main road .
A full mile ahead of him he saw Eben King , get along through mud and slush , and occasional big slumpy drift of old snow , as fast a his clean-limbed trotter could carry him .
As a rule Eben be exceedingly careful of his horse , but now he be send Bay Billy along for all that be in him .
For a second Bruce hesitate .
Then he turn his mare down the field cut to Malley 's Creek .
It be take Lady Jane 's life and possibly his own in his hand , but it be his only chance .
He could never have overtake Bay Billy on the main road .
`` Do your best , Lady Jane , '' he mutter , and Lady Jane plunge down the steep hillside , through the glutinous mud of a ploughed field a if she mean to do it .
Beyond the field be a ravine full of fir , through which Malley 's Creek ran .
To cross it mean a four-mile cut to Ramble Valley .
The ice look black and rotten .
To the left be the ragged hole where Jack Carr 's mare have struggle for her life .
Bruce head Lady Jane high up .
If a crossing could be make at all it be only between Malley 's spring-hole and the old ice road .
Lady Jane swerve at the bank and whicker .
`` On , old girl , '' say Bruce , in a tense voice .
Unwillingly she advance , pick her step with cat-like sagacity .
Once her foot go through , Bruce pull her up with hand that do not tremble .
The next moment she be scramble up the opposite bank .
Glancing back , Bruce saw the ice parting in her footprint and the black water gurgle up .
But the race be not yet decide .
By cross the creek he have win no more than an equal chance with Eben King .
And the field road before him be much bad than the main road .
There be little snow on it and some bad slough .
But Lady Jane be good for it .
For once she should not be spar .
Just a the red ball of the sun touch the wooded hill of the valley , Mrs. Theodora , look from the cowstable door , saw two sleigh approach , the horse of which be go at a gallop .
One be trundle down the main road , headlong through old drift and slumpy snow , where a false step might send the horse flounder to the bottom .
The other be come up from the direction of the creek , full tilt through Tony Mack 's stump land , where not a vestige of snow coat the huge root over which the runner bump .
For a moment Mrs. Theodora stand at a gaze .
Then she recognize both driver .
She drop her milk pail and ran to the house , think a she run .
She know that Judith be alone in the kitchen .
If Eben King get there first , well and good , but if Bruce Marshall win the race he must encounter her , Mrs. Theodora .
`` He wo n't propose to Judith as long a I 'm round , '' she pant .
`` I know him -- he 's too shy .
But Eben wo n't mind -- I 'll tip him the wink . ''
Potter Vane be chop wood before the door .
Mrs. Theodora recognize in him a further obstacle to Marshall 's wooing , catch him unceremoniously by the arm and haul him , axe and all , over the doorstone and into the kitchen , just a Bruce Marshall and Eben King drive into the yard with not a second to spare between them .
There be a woeful cut on Bay Billy 's slender foreleg and the reek Lady Jane be tremble like a leaf .
The staunch little mare have bring her master over that stretch of sticky field road in time , but she be almost exhaust .
Both men spring from their sleigh and run to the door .
Bruce Marshall win it by foot-room and burst into the kitchen with his rival hot on his heel .
Mrs. Theodora stand defiantly in the middle of the room , still grasp the daze and dismay Potter .
In a corner Judith turn from the window whence she have be watch the finish of the race .
She be pale and tense from excitement .
In those few gasp moment she have look on her heart a on an open book ; she know at last that she love Bruce Marshall and her eye meet his fiery gray one a he spring over the threshold .
`` Judith , will you marry me ? ''
gasp Bruce , before Eben , who have first look at Mrs. Theodora and the squirming Potter , have locate the girl .
`` Yes , '' say Judith .
She burst into hysterical tear a she say it and sit limply down in a chair .
Mrs. Theodora loose her grip on Potter .
`` You can go back to your work , '' she say dully .
She follow him out and Eben King follow her .
On the step she reach behind him and close the door .
`` Trust a King for be too late ! ''
she say bitterly and unjustly .
Eben go home with Bay Billy .
Potter gaze after him until Mrs. Theodora order him to put Marshall 's mare in the stable and rub her down .
`` Anyway , Judith wo n't be an old maid , '' she comfort herself .
The Promise of Lucy Ellen Cecily Foster come down the sloping , fir-fringed road from the village at a leisurely pace .
Usually she walk with a long , determined stride , but to-day the drowsy , mellow influence of the Autumn afternoon be strong upon her and fill her with placid content .
Without be actively conscious of it , she be satisfy with the exist circumstance of her life .
It be half over now .
The half of it yet to be live stretched before her , tranquil , pleasant and uneventful , like the afternoon , fill with unhurried duty and calmly interesting day , Cecily like the prospect .
When she come to her own lane she pause , fold her hand on the top of the whitewashed gate , while she bask for a moment in the warmth that seem cup in the little grassy hollow hedge about with young fir-trees .
Before her lay sere , brood field slop down to a sandy shore , where long foamy ripple be lap with a murmur that thread the hushed air like a faint minor melody .
On the crest of the little hill to her right be her home -- hers and Lucy Ellen 's .
The house be an old-fashioned , weather-gray one , low in the eaves , with gable and porch overgrown with vine that have turn to wine-reds and rich bronze in the October frost .
On three side it be close in by tall old spruce , their outer side bar and grim from long wrestling with the Atlantic wind , but their inner green and feathery .
On the fourth side a trim white pal shut in the flower garden before the front door .
Cecily could see the bed of purple and scarlet aster , make rich whorl of color under the parlor and sitting-room window .
Lucy Ellen 's bed be gayer and large than Cecily 's .
Lucy Ellen have always have well luck with flower .
She could see old Boxer asleep on the front porch step and Lucy Ellen 's white cat stretch out on the parlor window-sill .
There be no other sign of life about the place .
Cecily draw a long , leisurely breath of satisfaction .
`` After tea I 'll dig up those dahlia root , '' she say aloud .
`` They 'd ought to be up .
My , how blue and soft that sea be !
I never saw such a lovely day .
I 've be go longer than I expect .
I wonder if Lucy Ellen 's be lonesome ? ''
When Cecily look back from the misty ocean to the house , she be surprised to see a man come with a jaunty step down the lane under the gnarled spruce .
She look at him perplexedly .
He must be a stranger , for she be sure no man in Oriental walk like that .
`` Some agent have be pester Lucy Ellen , I suppose , '' she mutter vexedly .
The stranger come on with an airy briskness utterly foreign to Orientalites .
Cecily open the gate and go through .
They meet under the amber-tinted sugar maple in the heart of the hollow .
As he pass , the man lift his hat and bow with an ingratiate smile .
He be about forty-five , well , although somewhat loudly dress , and with an air of self-satisfied prosperity pervade his whole personality .
He have a heavy gold watch chain and a large seal ring on the hand that lift his hat .
He be bald , with a high , Shaksperian forehead and a halo of sandy curl .
His face be ruddy and weak , but good-natured : his eye be large and blue , and he have a little straw-colored moustache , with a juvenile twist and curl in it .
Cecily do not recognize him , yet there be something vaguely familiar about him .
She walk rapidly up to the house .
In the sitting-room she find Lucy Ellen peer out between the muslin window curtain .
When the latter turn there be an air of repressed excitement about her .
`` Who be that man , Lucy Ellen ? ''
Cecily ask .
To Cecily 's amazement , Lucy Ellen blush -- a warm , Spring-like flood of color that roll over her delicate little face like a miracle of rejuvenescence .
`` Did n't you know him ?
That be Cromwell Biron , '' she simper .
Although Lucy Ellen be forty and , in most respect , sensible , she could not help simper upon occasion .
`` Cromwell Biron , '' repeat Cecily , in an emotionless voice .
She take off her bonnet mechanically , brush the dust from it ribbon and bow and go to put it carefully away in it white box in the spare bedroom .
She felt a if she have have a severe shock , and she dare not ask anything more just then .
Lucy Ellen 's blush have frighten her .
It seem to open up dizzy possibility of change .
`` But she promise -- she promise , '' say Cecily fiercely , under her breath .
While Cecily be change her dress , Lucy Ellen be get the tea ready in the little kitchen .
Now and then she break out into singing , but always check herself guiltily .
Cecily hear her and set her firm mouth a little firmer .
`` If a man have jilt me twenty year ago , I would n't be so overwhelmingly glad to see him when he come back -- especially if he have get fat and bald-headed , '' she add , her face involuntarily twitch into a smile .
Cecily , in spite of her serious expression and intense way of look at life , have an irrepressible sense of humor .
Tea that even be not the pleasant meal it usually be .
The two woman be wont to talk animatedly to each other , and Cecily have many thing to tell Lucy Ellen .
She do not tell them .
Neither do Lucy Ellen ask any question , her ill-concealed excitement hang around her like a festal garment .
Cecily 's heart be on fire with alarm and jealousy .
She smile a little cruelly a she butter and eat her toast .
`` And so that be Cromwell Biron , '' she say with studied carelessness .
`` I think there be something familiar about him .
When do he come home ? ''
`` He get to Oriental yesterday , '' flutter back Lucy Ellen .
`` He 's go to be home for two month .
We -- we have such an interesting talk this afternoon .
He -- he 's a full of joke a ever .
I wish you 'd be here . ''
This be a fib .
Cecily know it .
`` I do n't , then , '' she say contemptuously .
`` You know I never have much use for Cromwell Biron .
I think he have a face of his own to come down here to see you uninvited , after the way he treat you . ''
Lucy Ellen blush scorchingly and be miserably silent .
`` He 's change terrible in his look , '' go on Cecily relentlessly .
`` How bald he 's get -- and fat !
To think of the spruce Cromwell Biron get to be bald and fat !
To be sure , he still have the same sheepish expression .
Will you pass me the currant jell , Lucy Ellen ? ''
`` I do n't think he 's so very fat , '' she say resentfully , when Cecily have leave the table .
`` And I do n't care if he be . ''
Twenty year before this , Biron have jilt Lucy Ellen Foster .
She be the pretty girl in Oriental then , but the new school teacher over at the Crossways be pretty , with a dash of piquancy , which Lucy Ellen lack , into the bargain .
Cromwell and the school teacher have run away and be marry , and Lucy Ellen be leave to pick up the tattered shred of her poor romance a best she could .
She never have another lover .
She tell herself that she would always be faithful to the one love of her life .
This sound romantic , and she find a certain comfort in it .
She have be bring up by her uncle and aunt .
When they die she and her cousin , Cecily Foster , find themselves , except for each other , alone in the world .
Cecily love Lucy Ellen a a sister .
But she believe that Lucy Ellen would yet marry , and her heart sank at the prospect of be leave without a soul to love and care for .
It be Lucy Ellen that have first propose their mutual promise , but Cecily have grasp at it eagerly .
The two woman , verge on decisive old maidenhood , solemnly promise each other that they would never marry , and would always live together .
From that time Cecily 's mind have be at ease .
In her eye a promise be a sacred thing .
The next evening at prayer-meeting Cromwell Biron receive quite an ovation from old friend and neighbor .
Cromwell have be a favorite in his boyhood .
He have now the additional glamour of novelty and repute wealth .
He be beam and expansive .
He go into the choir to help sing .
Lucy Ellen sit beside him , and they sing from the same book .
Two red spot burn on her thin cheek , and she have a cluster of lavender chrysanthemum pin on her jacket .
She look almost girlish , and Cromwell Biron gaze at her with sidelong admiration , while Cecily watch them both fiercely from her pew .
She know that Cromwell Biron have come home , woo his old love .
`` But he sha 'n ' t get her , '' Cecily whisper into her hymnbook .
Somehow it be a comfort to articulate the word , `` She promise . ''
On the church step Cromwell offer his arm to Lucy Ellen with a flourish .
She take it shyly , and they start down the road in the crisp Autumn moonlight .
For the first time in ten year Cecily walk home from prayer-meeting alone .
She go up-stairs and flung herself on her bed , reckless for once , of her second best hat and gown .
Lucy Ellen do not venture to ask Cromwell in .
She be too much in awe of Cecily for that .
But she loiter with him at the gate until the grandfather 's clock in the hall strike eleven .
Then Cromwell go away , whistle gaily , with Lucy Ellen 's chrysanthemum in his buttonhole , and Lucy Ellen go in and cry half the night .
But Cecily do not cry .
She lay savagely awake until morning .
`` Cromwell Biron be court you again , '' she say bluntly to Lucy Ellen at the breakfast table .
Lucy Ellen blush nervously .
`` Oh , nonsense , Cecily , '' she protest with a simper .
`` It be n't nonsense , '' say Cecily calmly .
`` He be .
There be no fool like an old fool , and Cromwell Biron never have much sense .
The presumption of him ! ''
Lucy Ellen 's hand tremble a she put her teacup down .
`` He 's not so very old , '' she say faintly , `` and everybody but you like him -- and he 's well-to-do .
I do n't see that there 's any presumption . ''
`` Maybe not -- if you look at it so .
You 're very forgiving , Lucy Ellen .
You 've forget how he treat you once . ''
`` No -- o -- o , I have n't , '' falter Lucy Ellen .
`` Anyway , '' say Cecily coldly , `` you should n't encourage his attention , Lucy Ellen ; you know you could n't marry him even if he ask you .
You promise . ''
All the fitful color go out of Lucy Ellen 's face .
Under Cecily 's pitiless eye she wilt and droop .
`` I know , '' she say deprecatingly , `` I have n't forget .
You be talk nonsense , Cecily .
I like to see Cromwell , and he like to see me because I 'm almost the only one of his old set that be leave .
He feel lonesome in Oriental now . ''
Lucy Ellen lift her fawn-colored little head more erectly at the last of her protest .
She have save her self-respect .
In the month that follow Cromwell Biron press his suit persistently , unintimidated by Cecily 's antagonism .
October drift into November and the chill , drear day come .
To Cecily the whole outer world seem the dismal reflex of her pain-bitten heart .
Yet she constantly laugh at herself , too , and her laughter be real if bitter .
One evening she come home late from a neighbor 's .
Cromwell Biron pass her in the hollow under the bare bough of the maple that be outline against the silvery moonlit sky .
When Cecily go into the house , Lucy Ellen open the parlor door .
She be very pale , but her eye burn in her face and her hand be clasp before her .
`` I wish you 'd come in here for a few minute , Cecily , '' she say feverishly .
Cecily follow silently into the room .
`` Cecily , '' she say faintly , `` Cromwell be here to-night .
He ask me to marry him .
I tell him to come to-morrow night for his answer . ''
She pause and look imploringly at Cecily .
Cecily do not speak .
She stand tall and unrelenting by the table .
The rigidity of her face and figure smite Lucy Ellen like a blow .
She throw out her bleached little hand and speak with a sudden passion utterly foreign to her .
`` Cecily , I want to marry him .
I -- I -- love him .
I always have .
I never think of this when I promise .
Oh , Cecily , you 'll let me off my promise , wo n't you ? ''
`` No , '' say Cecily .
It be all she say .
Lucy Ellen 's hand fell to her side , and the light go out of her face .
`` You wo n't ? ''
she say hopelessly .
Cecily go out .
At the door she turn .
`` When John Edwards ask me to marry him six year ago , I say no for your sake .
To my mind a promise be a promise .
But you be always weak and romantic , Lucy Ellen . ''
Lucy Ellen make no response .
She stand limply on the hearth-rug like a faded blossom bite by frost .
After Cromwell Biron have go away the next evening , with all his brisk jauntiness shorn from him for the time , Lucy Ellen go up to Cecily 's room .
She stand for a moment in the narrow doorway , with the lamplight strike upward with a gruesome effect on her wan face .
`` I 've send him away , '' she say lifelessly .
`` I 've keep my promise , Cecily . ''
There be silence for a moment .
Cecily do not know what to say .
Suddenly Lucy Ellen burst out bitterly .
`` I wish I be dead ! ''
Then she turn swiftly and run across the hall to her own room .
Cecily give a little moan of pain .
This be her reward for all the love she have lavish on Lucy Ellen .
`` Anyway , it be all over , '' she say , look dourly into the moonlit bough of the fir ; `` Lucy Ellen 'll get over it .
When Cromwell be go she 'll forget all about him .
I 'm not go to fret .
She promise , and she want the promise first . ''
During the next fortnight tragedy hold grim sway in the little weather-gray house among the fir -- a tragedy temper with grim comedy for Cecily , who , amid all her agony , could not help be amuse at Lucy Ellen 's romantic way of sorrowing .
Lucy Ellen do her morning ' work listlessly and droop through the afternoon .
Cecily would have felt it a a relief if Lucy Ellen have upbraid her , but after her outburst on the night she send Cromwell away , Lucy Ellen never utter a word of reproach or complaint .
One even Cecily make a neighborly call in the village .
Cromwell Biron happen to be there and gallantly insist upon see her home .
She understand from Cromwell 's unaltered manner that Lucy Ellen have not tell him why she have refuse him .
She felt a sudden admiration for her cousin .
When they reach the house Cromwell halt suddenly in the banner of light that stream from the sitting-room window .
They saw Lucy Ellen sit alone before the fire , her arm fold on the table , and her head bow on them .
Her white cat sit unnoticed at the table beside her .
Cecily give a gasp of surrender .
`` You 'd better come in , '' she say , harshly .
`` Lucy Ellen look lonesome . ''
Cromwell mutter sheepishly , `` I 'm afraid I would n't be company for her .
Lucy Ellen do n't like me much -- '' `` Oh , do n't she ! ''
say Cecily , bitterly .
`` She like you good than she like me for all I 've -- but it 's no matter .
It 's be all my fault -- she 'll explain .
Tell her I say she could .
Come in , I say . ''
She catch the still reluctant Cromwell by the arm and fairly drag him over the geranium bed and through the front door .
She open the sitting-room door and push him in .
Lucy Ellen rise in amazement .
Over Cromwell 's bald head loom Cecily 's dark face , tragic and determine .
`` Here 's your beau , Lucy Ellen , '' she say , `` and I give you back your promise . ''
She shut the door upon the sudden illumination of Lucy Ellen 's face and go up-stairs with the tear roll down her cheek .
`` It 's my turn to wish I be dead , '' she mutter .
Then she laugh hysterically .
`` That goose of a Cromwell !
How queer he do look standing there , frighten to death of Lucy Ellen .
Poor little Lucy Ellen !
Well , I hope he 'll be good to her . ''
The Pursuit of the Ideal Freda 's snuggery be aglow with the rose-red splendour of an open fire which be triumphantly ward off the stealthy approach of the dull grey autumn twilight .
Roger St. Clair stretch himself out luxuriously in an easy-chair with a sigh of pleasure .
`` Freda , your armchair be the most comfy in the world .
How do you get them to fit into a fellow 's kink so splendidly ? ''
Freda smile at him out of big , owlish eye that be the same tint a the coppery grey sea upon which the north window of the snuggery look .
`` Any armchair will fit a lazy fellow 's kink , '' she say .
`` I 'm not lazy , '' protest Roger .
`` That you should say so , Freda , when I have wheel all the way out of town this dismal afternoon over the bad bicycle road in three kingdom to see you , bonnie maid ! ''
`` I like lazy people , '' say Freda softly , tilt her spoon on a cup of chocolate with a slender brown hand .
Roger smile at her chummily .
`` You be such a comfortable girl , '' he say .
`` I like to talk to you and tell you thing . ''
`` You have something to tell me today .
It have be fairly stick out of your eye ever since you come .
Now , ` fes . ''
Freda put away her cup and saucer , get up , and stood by the fireplace , with one arm outstretched along the quaintly carve old mantel .
She lay her head down on it curve and look expectantly at Roger .
`` I have see my ideal , Freda , '' say Roger gravely .
Freda lift her head and then lay it down again .
She do not speak .
Roger be glad of it .
Even at the moment he find himself think that Freda have a genius for silence .
Any other girl he know would have break in at once with surprised exclamation and question and spoil his story .
`` You have not forget what my ideal woman be like ? ''
he say .
Freda shake her head .
She be not likely to forget .
She remember only too keenly the afternoon he have tell her .
They have be sit in the snuggery , herself in the inglenook , and Roger coil up in his big pet chair that nobody else ever sit in . ''
` What must my lady be that I must love her ? ' ''
he have quote .
`` Well , I will paint my dream-love for you , Freda .
She must be tall and slender , with chestnut hair of wonderful gloss , with just the suggestion of a ripple in it .
She must have an oval face , colourless ivory in hue , with the expression of a Madonna ; and her eye must be ` passionless , peaceful blue , ' deep and tender a a twilight sky . ''
Freda , look at herself along her arm in the mirror , recall this description and smile faintly .
She be short and plump , with a piquant , irregular little face , vivid tinting , curly , unmanageable hair of ruddy brown , and big grey eye .
Certainly , she be not his ideal .
`` When and where do you meet your lady of the Madonna face and twilight eye ? ''
she ask .
Roger frown .
Freda 's face be solemn enough but her eye look a if she might be laugh at him .
`` I have n't meet her yet .
I have only see her .
It be in the park yesterday .
She be in a carriage with the Mandersons .
So beautiful , Freda !
Our eye meet a she drive past and I realize that I have find my long-sought ideal .
I rush back to town and hunt up Pete Manderson at the club .
Pete be a donkey but he have his way of be useful .
He tell me who she be .
Her name be Stephanie Gardiner ; she be his cousin from the south and be visit his mother .
And , Freda , I be to dine at the Mandersons ' tonight .
I shall meet her . ''
`` Do goddess and ideal and Madonnas eat ? ''
say Freda in an awed whisper .
Her eye be certainly laugh now .
Roger get up stiffly .
`` I must confess I do not expect that you would ridicule my confidence , Freda , '' he say frigidly .
`` It be very unlike you .
But if you be not interested I will not bore you with any further detail .
And it be time I be get back to town anyhow . ''
When he have go Freda run to the west window and flung it open .
She lean out and wave both hand at him over the spruce hedge .
`` Roger , Roger , I be a horrid little beast .
Forget it immediately , please .
And come out tomorrow and tell me all about her . ''
Roger come .
He bore Freda terribly with his rapture but she never betray it .
She be all sympathy -- or , at least , a much sympathy a a woman can be who must listen while the man of men sings another woman 's praise to her .
She send Roger away in perfect good humour with himself and all the world , then she curl herself up in the snuggery , pull a rug over her head , and cry .
Roger come out to Lowlands oftener than ever after that .
He have to talk to somebody about Stephanie Gardiner and Freda be the safe vent .
The `` pursuit of the Ideal , '' a she call it , go on with vim and fervour .
Sometimes Roger would be on the height of hope and elation ; the next visit he would be in the depth of despair and humility .
Freda have learn to tell which it be by the way he open the snuggery door .
One day when Roger come he find six foot of young man repose at ease in his particular chair .
Freda be sip chocolate in her corner and look over the rim of her cup at the intruder just a she have be wont to look at Roger .
She have on a new dark red gown and look vivid and rose-hued .
She introduce the stranger a Mr. Grayson and call him Tim .
They seem to be excellent friend .
Roger sit bolt upright on the edge of a fragile , gild chair which Freda keep to hide a shabby spot in the carpet , and glare at Tim until the latter say goodbye and lounge out .
`` You 'll be over tomorrow ? ''
say Freda .
`` Ca n't I come this evening ? ''
he plead .
Freda nod .
`` Yes -- and we 'll make taffy .
You use to make such delicious stuff , Tim . ''
`` Who be that fellow , Freda ? ''
Roger inquire crossly , as soon a the door close .
Freda begin to make a fresh pot of chocolate .
She smile dreamily a if thinking of something pleasant .
`` Why , that be Tim Grayson -- dear old Tim .
He use to live next door to u when we be child .
And we be such chum -- always together , make mud pie , and get into scrape .
He be just the same old Tim , and be home from the west for a long visit .
I be so glad to see him again . ''
`` So it would appear , '' say Roger grumpily .
`` Well , now that ` dear old Tim ' be go , I suppose I can have my own chair , can I ?
And do give me some chocolate .
I do n't know you make taffy . ''
`` Oh , I do n't .
It 's Tim .
He can do everything .
He use to make it long ago , and I wash up after him and help him eat it .
How be the pursuit of the Ideal come on , Roger-boy ? ''
Roger do not feel a if he want to talk about the Ideal .
He notice how vivid Freda 's smile be and how lovable be the curve of her neck where the dusky curl be catch up from it .
He have also an inner vision of Freda make taffy with Tim and he do not approve of it .
He refuse to talk about the Ideal .
On his way back to town he find himself think that Freda have the most charming , glad little laugh of any girl he know .
He suddenly remember that he have never hear the Ideal laugh .
She smile placidly -- he have rave to Freda about that smile -- but she do not laugh .
Roger begin to wonder what an ideal without any sense of humour would be like when translate into the real .
He go to Lowlands the next afternoon and find Tim there -- in his chair again .
He detest the fellow but he could not deny that he be good-looking and have charm manner .
Freda be very nice to Tim .
On his way back to town Roger decide that Tim be in love with Freda .
He be furious at the idea .
The presumption of the man !
He also remember that he have not say a word to Freda about the Ideal .
And he never do say much more -- perhaps because he could not get the chance .
Tim be always there before him and generally outstay him .
One day when he go out he do not find Freda at home .
Her aunt tell him that she be out rid with Mr. Grayson .
On his way back he meet them .
As they canter by , Freda wave her riding whip at him .
Her face be full of warm , ripe , kissable tint , her loose lovelocks be blow about it , and her eye shine like grey pool mirror star .
Roger turn and watch them out of sight behind the fir that cup Lowlands .
That night at Mrs. Crandall 's dinner table somebody begin to talk about Freda .
Roger strain his ear to listen .
Mrs. Kitty Carr be speak -- Mrs. Kitty know everything and everybody .
`` She be simply the most charming girl in the world when you get really acquaint with her , '' say Mrs. Kitty , with the air of have discover and patent Freda .
`` She be so vivid and unconventional and lovable -- ` spirit and fire and dew , ' you know .
Tim Grayson be a very lucky fellow . ''
`` Are they engage ? ''
someone ask .
`` Not yet , I fancy .
But of course it be only a question of time .
Tim simply adore her .
He be a good soul and have lot of money , so he 'll do .
But really , you know , I think a prince would n't be good enough for Freda . ''
Roger suddenly become conscious that the Ideal be ask him a question of which he have not hear a word .
He apologize and be forgive .
But he go home a very miserable man .
He do not go to Lowlands for two week .
They be the long , most wretched two week he have ever live through .
One afternoon he hear that Tim Grayson have go back west .
Mrs. Kitty tell it mournfully .
`` Of course , this mean that Freda have refuse him , '' she say .
`` She be such an odd girl . ''
Roger go straight out to Lowlands .
He find Freda in the snuggery and hold out his hand to her .
`` Freda , will you marry me ?
It will take a lifetime to tell you how much I love you . ''
`` But the Ideal ? ''
question Freda .
`` I have just discover what my ideal be , '' say Roger .
`` She be a dear , loyal , companionable little girl , with the jolliest laugh and the warm , true heart in the world .
She have starry grey eye , two dimple , and a mouth I must and will kiss -- there -- there -- there !
Freda , tell me you love me a little bit , although I 've be such a besotted idiot . ''
`` I will not let you call my husband-that-is-to-be name , '' say Freda , snuggle down into the curve of his shoulder .
`` But indeed , Roger-boy , you will have to make me very , very happy to square matter up .
You have make me so unutterably unhappy for two month . ''
`` The pursuit of the Ideal be end , '' declare Roger .
The Softening of Miss Cynthia `` I wonder if I 'd better flavour this cake with lemon or vanilla .
It 's the most perplexing thing I ever heard of in my life . ''
Miss Cynthia put down the bottle with a vexed frown ; her perplexity have nothing whatever to do with flavour the golden mixture in her cake bowl .
Mrs. John Joe know that ; the latter have drop in in a flurry of curiosity concern the little boy whom she have see about Miss Cynthia 's place for the last two day .
Her daughter Kitty be with her ; they both sit close together on the kitchen sofa .
`` It be too bad , '' say Mrs. John Joe sympathetically .
`` I do n't wonder you be mixed up .
So unexpected , too !
When do he come ? ''
`` Tuesday night , '' say Miss Cynthia .
She have decide on the vanilla and be whip it briskly in .
`` I saw an express wagon drive into the yard with a boy and a trunk in it and I go out just a he get down .
` Are you my Aunt Cynthia ? '
he say .
` Who in the world be you ? '
I ask .
And he say , ` I 'm Wilbur Merrivale , and my father be John Merrivale .
He die three week ago and he say I be to come to you , because you be his sister . '
Well , you could just have knock me down with a feather ! ''
`` I 'm sure , '' say Mrs. John Joe .
`` But I do n't know you have a brother .
And his name -- Merrivale ? ''
`` Well , he be n't any relation really .
I be about six year old when my father marry his mother , the Widow Merrivale .
John be just my age , and we be bring up together just like brother and sister .
He be a real nice fellow , I must say .
But he go out to Californy year ago , and I have n't hear a word of him for fifteen year -- do n't know if he be alive or dead .
But it seem from what I can make out from the boy , that his mother die when he be a baby , and him and John rough it along together -- pretty poor , too , I guess -- till John take a fever and die .
And he tell some of his friend to send the boy to me , for he 'd no relation there and not a cent in the world .
And the child come all the way from Californy , and here he be .
I 've be just distract ever since .
I 've never be use to child , and to have the house keep in perpetual uproar be more than I can stand .
He 's about twelve and a born mischief .
He 'll tear through the room with his dirty foot , and he 's smashed one of my blue vas and tear down a curtain and set Towser on the cat half a dozen time already -- I never be so worried .
I 've get him out on the verandah shell pea now , to keep him quiet for a little spell . ''
`` I 'm really sorry for you , '' say Mrs. John Joe .
`` But , poor child , I suppose he 's never have anyone to look after him .
And come all the way from Californy alone , too -- he must be real smart . ''
`` Too smart , I guess .
He must take after his mother , whoever she be , for there ai n't a bit of Merrivale in him .
And he 's be bring up pretty rough . ''
`` Well , it 'll be a great responsibility for you , Cynthia , of course .
But he 'll be company , too , and he 'll be real handy to run errand and -- '' '' I 'm not go to keep him , '' say Miss Cynthia determinedly .
Her thin lip set themselves firmly and her voice have a hard ring .
`` Not go to keep him ? ''
say Mrs. John Joe blankly .
`` You ca n't send him back to Californy ! ''
`` I do n't intend to .
But a for have him here to worry my life out and keep me in a perpetual stew , I just wo n't do it .
D 'ye think I 'm go to trouble myself about child at my age ?
And all he 'd cost for clothes and schooling , too !
I ca n't afford it .
I do n't suppose his father expect it either .
I suppose he expect me to look after him a bit -- and of course I will .
A boy of his age ought to be able to earn his keep , anyway .
If I look out a place for him somewhere where he can do odd job and go to school in the winter , I think it 's all anyone can expect of me , when he ai n't really no blood relation . ''
Miss Cynthia fling the last sentence at Mrs. John Joe rather defiantly , not like the expression on that lady 's face .
`` I suppose nobody could expect more , Cynthy , '' say Mrs. John Joe deprecatingly .
`` He would be an awful bother , I 've no doubt , and you 've live alone so long with no one to worry you that you would n't know what to do with him .
Boys be always get into mischief -- my four just keep me on the dead jump .
Still , it 's a pity for him , poor little fellow !
No mother or father -- it seem hard . ''
Miss Cynthia 's face grow grim than ever a she go to the door with her caller and watch them down the garden path .
As soon a Mrs. John Joe saw that the door be shut , she unburden her mind to her daughter .
`` Did you ever hear tell of the like ?
I think I know Cynthia Henderson well , if anybody in Wilmot do , but this beat me .
Just think , Kitty -- there she be , no one know how rich , and not a soul in the world belonging to her , and she wo n't even take in her brother 's child .
She must be a hard woman .
But it 's just meanness , pure and simple ; she grudge him what he 'd eat and wear .
The poor mite do n't look a if he 'd need much .
Cynthia do n't use to be like that , but it 's grow on her every day .
She 's get hard a rock . ''
That afternoon Miss Cynthia harness her fat grey pony into the phaeton herself -- she keep neither man nor maid , but live in her big , immaculate house in solitary state -- and drive away down the dusty , buttercup-bordered road , leave Wilbur sit on the verandah .
She return in an hour 's time and drive into the yard , shut the gate behind her with a vigorous snap .
Wilbur be not in sight and , fearful l he should be in mischief , she hurriedly tie the pony to the railing and go in search of him .
She find him sit by the well , his chin in his hand ; he be pale and his eye be red .
Miss Cynthia harden her heart and take him into the house .
`` I 've be down to see Mr. Robins this afternoon , Wilbur , '' she say , pretend to brush some invisible dust from the bottom of her nice black cashmere skirt for an excuse to avoid look at him , `` and he 's agree to take you on trial .
It 's a real good chance -- good than you could expect .
He say he 'll board and clothe you and let you go to school in the winter . ''
The boy seem to shrink .
`` Daddy say that I would stay with you , '' he say wistfully .
`` He say you be so good and kind and would love me for his sake . ''
For a moment Miss Cynthia soften .
She have be very fond of her stepbrother ; it seem that his voice appeal to her across the grave in behalf of his child .
But the crust of year be not to be so easily break .
`` Your father mean that I would look after you , '' she say , `` and I mean to , but I ca n't afford to keep you here .
You 'll have a good place at Mr. Robins ' , if you behave yourself .
I 'm go to take you down now , before I unharness the pony , so go and wash your face while I put up your thing .
Do n't look so woebegone , for pity 's sake !
I 'm not take you to prison . ''
Wilbur turn and go silently to the kitchen .
Miss Cynthia think she hear a sob .
She go with a firm step into the little bedroom off the hall and take a purse out of a drawer .
`` I s ` pose I ought , '' she say doubtfully .
`` I do n't s ` pose he have a cent .
I daresay he 'll lose or waste it . ''
She count out seventy-five cent carefully .
When she come out , Wilbur be at the door .
She put the money awkwardly into his hand .
`` There , see that you do n't spend it on any foolishness . ''
* * * * * Miss Cynthia 's Action make a good deal of talk in Wilmot .
The woman , head by Mrs. John Joe -- who say behind Cynthia 's back what she do not dare say to her face -- condemn her .
The men laugh and say that Cynthia be a shrewd one ; there be no get round her .
Miss Cynthia herself be far from easy .
She could not forget Wilbur 's wistful eye , and she have hear that Robins be a hard master .
A week after the boy have go she saw him one day at the store .
He be lift heavy bag from a cart .
The work be beyond his strength , and he be flush and pant .
Miss Cynthia 's conscience give her a hard stab .
She buy a roll of peppermint and take them over to him .
He thank her timidly and drive quickly away .
`` Robins have n't any business put such work on a child , '' she say to herself indignantly .
`` I 'll speak to him about it . ''
And she do -- and get an answer that make her ears tingle .
Mr. Robins bluntly tell her he guess he know what be what about his hand .
He be n't no nigger driver .
If she be n't satisfy , she might take the boy away as soon a she like .
Miss Cynthia do not get much comfort out of life that summer .
Almost everywhere she go she be sure to meet Wilbur , engage in some hard task .
She could not help see how miserably pale and thin he have become .
The worry have it effect on her .
The neighbour say that Cynthy be sharp than ever .
Even her church-going be embitter .
She have always enjoy walk up the aisle with her rich silk skirt rustle over the carpet , her cashmere shawl fold correctly over her shoulder , and her lace bonnet set precisely on her thin shining crimp .
But she could take no pleasure in that or in the sermon now , when Wilbur sit right across from her pew , between hard-featured Robins and his sulky-looking wife .
The boy 's eye have grow too large for his thin face .
The softening of Miss Cynthia be a very gradual process , but it reach a climax one September morning , when Mrs. John Joe come into the former 's kitchen with an important face .
Miss Cynthia be preserve her plum .
`` No , thank you , I 'll not sit down -- I only run in -- I suppose you 've hear it .
That little Merrivale boy have take awful sick with fever , they say .
He 's be worked half to death this summer -- everyone know what Robins be with his help -- and they say he have fret a good deal for his father and be homesick , and he 's run down , I s ` pose .
Anyway , Robins take him over to the hospital at Stanford last night -- good gracious , Cynthy , be you sick ? ''
Miss Cynthia have stagger to a seat by the table ; her face be pallid .
`` No , it 's only your news give me a turn -- it come so suddenly -- I do n't know . ''
`` I must hurry back and see to the men 's dinner .
I think I 'd come and tell you , though I do n't know a you 'd care . ''
This parting shot be unheeded by Miss Cynthia .
She lay her face in her hand .
`` It 's a judgement on me , '' she moan .
`` He 's go to die , and I 'm his murderess .
This be the account I 'll have to give John Merrivale of his boy .
I 've be a wicked , selfish woman , and I 'm justly punish . ''
It be a humbled Miss Cynthia who meet the doctor at the hospital that afternoon .
He shake his head at her eager question .
`` It 's a pretty bad case .
The boy seem run down every way .
No , it be impossible to think of move him again .
Bringing him here last night do him a great deal of harm .
Yes , you may see him , but he will not know you , I fear -- he be delirious and raf of his father and California . ''
Miss Cynthia follow the doctor down the long ward .
When he pause by a cot , she push past him .
Wilbur lay toss restlessly on his pillow .
He be thin to emaciation , but his cheek be crimson and his eye burn bright .
Miss Cynthia stoop and take the hot , dry hand in hers .
`` Wilbur , '' she sob , `` do n't you know me -- Aunt Cynthia ? ''
`` You be not my Aunt Cynthia , '' say Wilbur .
`` Daddy say Aunt Cynthia be good and kind -- you be a cross , bad woman .
I want Daddy .
Why do n't he come ?
Why do n't he come to little Wilbur ? ''
Miss Cynthia get up and face the doctor .
`` He 's get to get good , '' she say stubbornly .
`` Spare no expense or trouble .
If he die , I will be a murderess .
He must live and give me a chance to make it up for him . ''
And he do live ; but for a long time it be a hard fight , and there be day when it seem that death must win .
Miss Cynthia get so thin and wan that even Mrs. John Joe pity her .
The earth seem to Miss Cynthia to laugh out in prodigal joyousness on the afternoon she drive home when Wilbur have be pronounce out of danger .
How tranquil the hill look , with warm October sunshine sleep on their side and faint blue haze on their brow !
How gallantly the maple flaunt their crimson flag !
How kind and friendly be every face she meet !
Afterwards , Miss Cynthia say she begin to live that day .
Wilbur 's recovery be slow .
Every day Miss Cynthia drive over with some dainty , and her loving gentleness sit none the less gracefully on her because of it newness .
Wilbur grow to look for and welcome her come .
When it be think safe to remove him , Miss Cynthia go to the hospital with a phaeton-load of shawl and pillow .
`` I have come to take you away , '' she say .
Wilbur shrink back .
`` Not to Mr. Robins , '' he say piteously .
`` Oh , not there , Aunt Cynthia ! ''
Them Notorious Pigs John Harrington be a woman-hater , or think that he be , which amount to the same thing .
He be forty-five and , have be handsome in his youth , be a fine-looking man still .
He have a remarkably good farm and be a remarkably good farmer .
He also have a garden which be the pride and delight of his heart or , at least , it be before Mrs. Hayden 's pig get into it .
Sarah King , Harrington 's aunt and housekeeper , be deaf and crabbed , and very few visitor ever come to the house .
This suit Harrington .
He be a good citizen and do his duty by the community , but his bump of sociability be undeveloped .
He be also a contented man , look after his farm , improve his stock , and experiment with new bulb in undisturbed serenity .
This , however , be all too good to last .
A man be bind to have some trouble in this life , and Harrington 's be near their beginning when Perry Hayden buy the adjoin farm from the heir of Shakespeare Ely , decease , and move in .
To be sure , Perry Hayden , poor fellow , do not bother Harrington much , for he die of pneumonia a month after he come there , but his widow carry on the farm with the assistance of a lank hire boy .
Her own child , Charles and Theodore , commonly know a Bobbles and Ted , be a yet little more than baby .
The real trouble begin when Mary Hayden 's pig , fourteen in number and of half-grown voracity , get into Harrington 's garden .
A railing , a fir grove , and an apple orchard separate the two establishment , but these fail to keep the pig within bound .
Harrington have just get his garden plant for the season , and to go out one morning and find a horde of enterprising porker root about in it be , to put it mildly , try .
He be angry , but a it be a first offence he drive the pig out with tolerable calmness , mend the fence , and spend the rest of the day repair damage .
Three day later the pig get in again .
Harrington relieve his mind by some scathing reflection on woman who try to run farm .
Then he send Mordecai , his hired man , over to the Hayden place to ask Mrs. Hayden if she would be kind enough to keep her pig out of his garden .
Mrs. Hayden send back word that she be very sorry and would not let it occur again .
Nobody , not even John Harrington , could doubt that she mean what she say .
But she have reckon without the pig .
They have not forget the flavour of Egyptian fleshpots a represent by the succulent young shoot in the Harrington domain .
A week later Mordecai come in and tell Harrington that `` them notorious pig '' be in his garden again .
There be a limit to everyone 's patience .
Harrington leave Mordecai to drive them out , while he put on his hat and stalk over to the Haydens ' place .
Ted and Bobbles be play at marble in the lane and run when they saw him come .
He get close up to the little low house among the apple tree before Mordecai appear in the yard , drive the pig around the barn .
Mrs. Hayden be sit on her doorstep , par her dinner potato , and stand up hastily when she saw her visitor .
Harrington have never see his neighbour at close quarter before .
Now he could not help see that she be a very pretty little woman , with wistful , dark blue eye and an appealing expression .
Mary Hayden have be next to a beauty in her girlhood , and she have a good deal of her bloom left yet , although hard work and worry be do their best to rob her of it .
But John Harrington be an angry man and do not care whether the woman in question be pretty or not .
Her pig have root up his garden -- that fact fill his mind .
`` Mrs. Hayden , those pig of yours have be in my garden again .
I simply ca n't put up with this any long .
Why in the name of reason do n't you look after your animal well ?
If I find them in again I 'll set my dog on them , I give you fair warn . ''
A faint colour have creep into Mary Hayden 's soft , milky-white cheek during this tirade , and her voice tremble a she say , `` I 'm very sorry , Mr. Harrington .
I suppose Bobbles forget to shut the gate of their pen again this morning .
He be so forgetful . ''
`` I 'd lengthen his memory , then , if I be you , '' return Harrington grimly , suppose that Bobbles be the hired man .
`` I 'm not go to have my garden ruin just because he happen to be forgetful .
I be speak my mind plainly , madam .
If you ca n't keep your stock from be a nuisance to other people you ought not to try to run a farm at all . ''
Then do Mrs. Hayden sit down upon the doorstep and burst into tear .
Harrington felt , a Sarah King would have express it , `` every which way at once . ''
Here be a nice mess !
What a nuisance woman be -- bad than the pig !
`` Oh , do n't cry , Mrs. Hayden , '' he say awkwardly .
`` I do n't mean -- well , I suppose I speak too strongly .
Of course I know you do n't mean to let the pig in .
There , do stop cry !
I beg your pardon if I 've hurt your feeling . ''
`` Oh , it be n't that , '' sob Mrs. Hayden , wipe away her tear .
`` It 's only -- I 've try so hard -- and everything seem to go wrong .
I make such mistake .
As for your garden , sir .
I 'll pay for the damage my pig have do if you 'll let me know what it come to . ''
She sob again and catch her breath like a grieved child .
Harrington felt like a brute .
He have a queer notion that if he put his arm around her and tell her not to worry over thing woman be not create to attend to he would be express his feeling well than in any other way .
But of course he could n't do that .
Instead , he mutter that the damage do n't amount to much after all , and he hop she would n't mind what he say , and then he get himself away and stride through the orchard like a man in a desperate hurry .
Mordecai have go home and the pig be not to be see , but a chubby little face peep at him from between two scrub , bloom-white cherry tree .
`` G'way , you bad man ! ''
say Bobbles vindictively .
`` G'way !
You make my mommer cry -- I saw you .
I 'm only Bobbles now , but when I grow up I 'll be Charles Henry Hayden and you wo n't dare to make my mommer cry then . ''
Harrington smile grimly .
`` So you 're the lad who forget to shut the pigpen gate , be you ?
Come out here and let me see you .
Who be in there with you ? ''
`` Ted be .
He 's little than me .
But I wo n't come out .
I do n't like you .
G'way home . ''
Harrington obeyed .
He go home and to work in his garden .
But work as hard a he would , he could not forget Mary Hayden 's grieved face .
`` I be a brute ! ''
he think .
`` Why could n't I have mention the matter gently ?
I daresay she have enough to trouble her .
Confound those pig ! ''
* * * * * After that there be a time of calm .
Evidently something have be do to Bobbles ' memory or perhaps Mrs. Hayden attend to the gate herself .
At all event the pig be not see and Harrington 's garden blossom like the rise .
But Harrington himself be in a bad state .
For one thing , wherever he look he saw the mental picture of his neighbour 's tired , sweet face and the tear in her blue eye .
The original he never saw , which only make matter worse .
He wonder what opinion she have of him and decide that she must think him a cross old bear .
This worry him .
He wish the pig would break in again so that he might have a chance to show how forbearing he could be .
One day he gather a nice mess of tender young green and send them over to Mrs. Hayden by Mordecai .
At first he have think of send her some flower , but that seem silly , and besides , Mordecai and flower be incongruous .
Mrs. Hayden send back a very pretty message of thanks , whereat Harrington look radiant and Mordecai , who could see through a stone wall as well a most people , go out to the barn and chuckle .
`` Ef the little widder hai n't catch him !
Who 'd a-thought it ? ''
The next day one adventurous pig find it way alone into the Harrington garden .
Harrington saw it get in and at the same moment he saw Mrs. Hayden run through her orchard .
She be in his yard by the time he get out .
Her sunbonnet have fall back and some loose tendril of her auburn hair be curl around her forehead .
Her cheek be so pink and her eye so bright from run that she look almost girlish .
`` Oh , Mr. Harrington , '' she say breathlessly , `` that pet pig of Bobbles ' be in your garden again .
He only get in this minute .
I saw him come and I run right after him . ''
`` He 's there , all right , '' say Harrington cheerfully , `` but I 'll get him out in a jiffy .
Do n't tire yourself .
Wo n't you go into the house and rest while I drive him around ? ''
Mrs. Hayden , however , be determine to help and they both go around to the garden , set the gate open , and try to drive the pig out .
But Harrington be not think about pig , and Mrs. Hayden do not know quite so much about drive them a Mordecai do ; a a consequence they do not make much headway .
In her excitement Mrs. Hayden run over bed and whatever come in her way , and Harrington , in order to keep near her , ran after her .
Between them they spoil thing about as much a a whole drove of pig would have do .
But at last the pig grow tire of the fun , bolt out of the gate , and run across the yard to his own place .
Mrs. Hayden follow slowly and Harrington walk beside her .
`` Those pig be all to be shut up tomorrow , '' she say .
`` Hiram have be fix up a place for them in his spare moment and it be ready at last . ''
`` Oh , I would n't , '' say Harrington hastily .
`` It be n't good for pig to be shut up so young .
You 'd better let them run a while yet . ''
`` No , '' say Mrs. Hayden decidedly .
`` They have almost worry me to death already .
In they go tomorrow . ''
They be at the lane gate now , and Harrington have to open it and let her pass through .
He felt quite desperate a he watch her trip up through the row of apple tree , her blue gingham skirt brush the lush grass where a lacy tangle of sunbeam and shadow lay .
Bobbles and Ted come run to meet her and the three , hand in hand , disappear from sight .
Harrington go back to the house , feel that life be flat , stale , and unprofitable .
That evening at the tea table he catch himself wonder what it would be like to see Mary Hayden sit at his table in place of Sarah King , with Bobbles and Ted on either hand .
Then he find out what be the matter with him .
He be in love , fathoms deep , with the blue-eyed widow !
Presumably the pig be shut up the next day , for Harrington 's garden be invade no more .
He stand it for a week and then surrender at discretion .
He fill a basket with early strawberry and go across to the Hayden place , boldly enough to all appearance , but with his heart thump like any schoolboy 's .
The front door stand hospitably open , flank by row of defiant red and yellow hollyhock .
Harrington pause on the step , with his hand outstretched to knock .
Somewhere inside he hear a low sobbing .
Forgetting all about knocking , he step softly in and walk to the door of the little sitting-room .
Bobbles be stand behind him in the middle of the kitchen but Harrington do not see him .
He be look at Mary Hayden , who be sit by the table in the room with her arm flung out over it and her head bow on them .
She be cry softly in a hopeless fashion .
Harrington put down his strawberry .
`` Mary ! ''
he exclaim .
Mrs. Hayden straighten herself up with a start and look at him , her lips quivering and her eye full of tear .
`` What be the matter ? ''
say Harrington anxiously .
`` Is anything wrong ? ''
`` Oh , nothing much , '' Said Mrs. Hayden , try to recover herself .
`` Yes , there be too .
But it be very foolish of me to be go on like this .
I do n't know anyone be near .
And I be feel so discourage .
The colt break his leg in the swamp pasture today and Hiram have to shoot him .
It be Ted 's colt .
But there , there be no use in cry over it . ''
And by way of prove this , the poor , tired , overburden little woman begin to cry again .
She be past caring whether Harrington saw her or not .
The woman-hater be so distressed that he forget to be nervous .
He sit down and put his arm around her and speak out what be in his mind without further parley .
`` Do n't cry , Mary .
Listen to me .
You be never mean to run a farm and be kill with worry .
You ought to be look after and pet .
I want you to marry me and then everything will be all right .
I 've love you ever since that day I come over here and make you cry .
Do you think you can like me a little , Mary ? ''
It may be that Mrs. Hayden be not very much surprise , because Harrington 's face have be like an open book the day they chase the pig out of the garden together .
As for what she say , perhaps Bobbles , who be surreptitiously gorge himself on Harrington 's strawberry , may tell you , but I certainly shall not .
The little brown house among the apple tree be shut up now and the boundary fence belongs to ancient history .
Sarah King have go also and Mrs. John Harrington reign royally in her place .
Bobbles and Ted have a small , blue-eyed , much-spoiled sister , and there be a pig on the estate who may die of old age , but will never meet his doom otherwise .
It be Bobbles ' pig and one of the famous fourteen .
Mordecai still shamble around and worship Mrs. Harrington .
The garden be the same a of yore , but the house be a different place and Harrington be a different man .
And Mordecai will tell you with a chuckle , `` It be them notorious pig a do it all . ''
Why Not Ask Miss Price ?
Frances Allen come in from the post office and lay an open letter on the table beside her mother , who be make mincemeat .
Alma Allen look up from the cake she be frost to ask , `` What be the matter ?
You look a if your letter contain unwelcome news , Fan . ''
`` So it do .
It be from Aunt Clara , to say she can not come .
She have receive a telegram that her sister-in-law be very ill and she must go to her at once . ''
Mrs. Allen look regretful , and Alma cast her spoon away with a tragic air .
`` That be too bad .
I feel a if our celebration be spoil .
But I suppose it ca n't be help . ''
`` No , '' agree Frances , sit down and begin to peel apple .
`` So there be no use in lamenting , or I would certainly sit down and cry , I feel so disappointed . ''
`` Is Uncle Frank come ? ''
`` Yes , Aunt Clara say he will come down from Stellarton if Mrs. King do not get bad .
So that will leave just one vacant place .
We must invite someone to fill it up .
Who shall it be ? ''
Both girl look rather puzzle .
Mrs. Allen smile a quiet little smile all to herself and go on chop suet .
She have hand the Thanksgiving dinner over to Frances and Alma this year .
They be to attend to all the preparation and invite all the guest .
But although they have make or plan several innovation in the dinner itself , they have make no change in the usual list of guest .
`` It must just be the time-honoured family affair , '' Frances have declare .
`` If we begin invite other folk , there be no know when to draw the line .
We ca n't have more than fourteen , and some of our friend would be sure to feel slighted . ''
So the same old list it be .
But now Aunt Clara -- dear , jolly Aunt Clara , whom everybody in the connection love and admire -- could not come , and her place must be fill .
`` We ca n't invite the new minister , because we would have to have his sister , too , '' say Frances .
`` And there be no reason for ask any one of our girl chum more than another . ''
`` Mother , you will have to help u out , '' say Alma .
`` Ca n't you suggest a substitute guest ? ''
Mrs. Allen look down at the two bright , girlish face turn up to her and say slowly , `` I think I can , but I be not sure my choice will please you .
Why not ask Miss Price ? ''
Miss Price !
They have never think of her !
She be the pale , timid-looking little teacher in the primary department of the Hazelwood school .
`` Miss Price ? ''
repeat Frances slowly .
`` Why , Mother , we hardly know her .
She be dreadfully dull and quiet , I think . ''
`` And so shy , '' say Alma .
`` Why , at the Wards ' party the other night she look startled to death if anyone speak to her .
I believe she would be frighten to come here for Thanksgiving . ''
`` She be a very lonely little creature , '' say Mrs. Allen gently , `` and do n't seem to have anyone belong to her .
I think she would be very glad to get an invitation to spend Thanksgiving elsewhere than in that cheerless little boarding-house where she live . ''
`` Of course , if you would like to have her , Mother , we will ask her , '' say Frances .
`` No , girl , '' say Mrs. Allen seriously .
`` You must not ask Miss Price on my account , if you do not feel prepared to make her welcome for her own sake .
I have hop that your own kind heart might have prompt you to extend a little Thanksgiving cheer in a truly Thanksgiving spirit to a lonely , hard-working girl whose life I do not think be a happy one .
But there , I shall not preach .
This be your dinner , and you must please yourselves a to your guest . ''
Frances and Alma have both flush , and they now remain silent for a few minute .
Then Frances spring up and throw her arm around her mother .
`` You 're right , Mother dear , a you always be , and we be very selfish girl .
We will ask Miss Price and try to give her a nice time .
I 'll go down this very evening and see her . ''
* * * * * In the grey twilight of the chilly autumn even Bertha Price walk home to her boarding-house , her pale little face paler , and her grey eye sadder than ever , in the fading light .
Only two day until Thanksgiving -- but there would be no real Thanksgiving for her .
Why , she ask herself rebelliously , when there seem so much love in the world , be she deny her share ?
Her landlady meet her in the hall .
`` Miss Allen be in the parlour , Miss Price .
She want to see you . ''
Bertha go into the parlour somewhat reluctantly .
She have meet Frances Allen only once or twice and she be secretly almost afraid of the handsome , vivacious girl who be so different from herself .
`` I be sorry you have have to wait , Miss Allen , '' she say shyly .
`` I go to see a pupil of mine who be ill and I be keep later than I expect . ''
`` My errand wo n't take very long , '' say Frances brightly .
`` Mother want you to spend Thanksgiving Day with u , Miss Price , if you have no other engagement .
We will have a few other guest , but nobody outside our own family except Mr. Seeley , who be the law partner and intimate friend of my brother Ernest in town .
You 'll come , wo n't you ? ''
`` Oh , thank you , yes , '' say Bertha , in pleased surprise .
`` I shall be very glad to go .
Why , it be so nice to think of it .
I expect my Thanksgiving Day to be lonely and sad -- not a bit Thanksgivingy . ''
`` We shall expect you then , '' say Frances , with a cordial little hand-squeeze .
`` Come early in the morning , and we will have a real friendly , pleasant day . ''
That night Frances say to her mother and sister , `` You never saw such a transfigured face a Miss Price 's when I ask her up .
She look positively pretty -- such a lovely pink come out on her cheek and her eye shine like star .
She remind me so much of somebody I 've see , but I ca n't think who it be .
I 'm so glad we 've ask her here for Thanksgiving ! ''
* * * * * Thanksgiving come , a bright and beautiful a a day could be , and the Allens ' guest come with it .
Bertha Price be among them , paler and shyer than ever .
Ernest Allen and his friend , Maxwell Seeley , come out from town on the morning train .
After all the necessary introduction have be make , Frances fly to the kitchen .
`` I 've find out who it be Miss Price reminds me of , '' she say , a she bustle about the range .
`` It 's Max Seeley .
You need n't laugh , Al . .
It 's a fact .
I notice it the minute I introduce them .
He 's plump and prosperous and she 's pinched and pale , but there 's a resemblance nevertheless .
Look for yourself and see if it be n't so . ''
Back in the big , cheery parlour the Thanksgiving guest be amuse themselves in various way .
Max Seeley have give an odd little start when he be introduce to Miss Price , and as soon a possible he follow her to the corner where she have take refuge .
Ernest Allen be out in the kitchen talk to his sister , the `` uncle and cousin and aunt '' be all chatter to each other , and Mr. Seeley and Miss Price be quite unnoticed .
`` You will excuse me , wo n't you , Miss Price , if I ask you something about yourself ? ''
he say eagerly .
`` The truth be , you look so strikingly like someone I use to know that I feel sure you must be relate to her .
I do not think I have any relative of your name .
Have you any of mine ? ''
Bertha flush , hesitate for an instant , then say frankly , `` No , I do not think so .
But I may as well tell you that Price be not my real name and I do not know what it be , although I think it begin with S. I believe that my parent die when I be about three year old , and I be then take to an orphan asylum .
The next year I be take from there and adopt by Mrs. Price .
She be very kind to me and treat me a her own daughter .
I have a happy home with her , although we be poor .
Mrs. Price wish me to bear her name , and I do so .
She never tell me my true surname , perhaps she do not know it .
She die when I be sixteen , and since then I have be quite alone in the world .
That be all I know about myself . ''
Max Seeley be plainly excite .
`` Why do you think your real name begin with S ? ''
he ask .
`` I have a watch which belong to my mother , with the monogram ` B.S. ' on the case .
It be leave with the matron of the asylum and she give it to Mrs. Price for me .
Here it be . ''
Max Seeley almost snatch the old-fashioned little silver watch , from her hand and open the case .
An exclamation escape him a he point to some scratch on the inner side .
They look like the initial M.A.S . `` Let me tell my story now , '' he say .
`` My name be Maxwell Seeley .
My father die when I be seven year old , and my mother a year later .
My little sister , Bertha , then three year old , and I be leave quite alone and very poor .
We have no relative .
I be adopt by a well-to-do old bachelor , who have know my father .
My sister be take to an orphan asylum in a city some distance away .
I be very much attach to her and grieve bitterly over our parting .
My adopt father be very kind to me and give me a good education .
I do not forget my sister , and as soon a I could I go to the asylum .
I find that she have be take away long before , and I could not even discover who have adopt her , for the original building , with all it record , have be destroy by fire two year previous to my visit .
I never could find any clue to her whereabouts , and long since give up all hope of find her .
But I have find her at last .
You be Bertha Seeley , my little sister ! ''
`` Oh -- can it be possible ! ''
`` More than possible -- it be certain .
You be the image of my mother , a I remember her , and a an old daguerreotype I have picture her .
And this be her watch -- see , I scratch my own initial on the case one day .
There be no doubt in the world .
Oh , Bertha , be you half as glad a I be ? ''
`` Glad ! ''
Bertha 's eye be shin like star .
She try to smile , but burst into tear instead and her head go down on her brother 's shoulder .
By this time everybody in the room be star at the extraordinary tableau , and Ernest , come through the hall , give a whistle of astonishment that bring the two in the corner back to a sense of their surroundings .
`` I have n't suddenly go crazy , Ernest , old fellow , '' smile Max .
`` Ladies and gentleman all , this little school-ma ` be be introduce to you a Miss Price , but that be a mistake .
Let me introduce her again a Miss Bertha Seeley , my long-lost and newly-found sister . ''
Well they have an amazing time then , of course .
They laugh and question and explain until the dinner be in imminent danger of get stone-cold on the dining-room table .
Luckily , Alma and Frances remember it just in the nick of time , and they all get out , somehow , and into their place .
It be a splendid dinner , but I believe that Maxwell and Bertha Seeley do n't know what they be eat , any more than if it have be sawdust .
However , the rest of the guest make up for that , and do full justice to the girl ' cookery .
In the afternoon they all go to church , and at least two heart be truly and devoutly thankful that day .
When the dusk come , Ernest and Maxwell have to catch the last train for town , and the other guest go home , with the exception of Bertha , who be to stay all night .
Just as soon a her resignation could be effect , she be to join her brother .
`` Meanwhile , I 'll see about get a house to put you in , '' say Max .
`` No more board out for me , Ernest .
You may consider me a a family man henceforth . ''
Frances and Alma talk it all over before they go to sleep that night .
`` Just think , '' say Frances , `` if we have n't ask her here today she might never have find her brother !
It 's all Mother 's do , bless her !
Things do happen like a storybook sometimes , do n't they , Al ?
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Lucy_Maud_Montgomery_Short_Stories , _1905_to_1906.txt.out
A Correspondence and A Climax At sunset Sidney hurry to her room to take off the soiled and faded cotton dress she have wear while milk .
She have milk eight cow and pumped water for the milk-cans afterward in the fag-end of a hot summer day .
She do that every night , but tonight she have hurry more than usual because she want to get her letter write before the early farm bedtime .
She have be think it out while she milk the cow in the stuffy little pen behind the barn .
This monthly letter be the only pleasure and stimulant in her life .
Existence would have be , so Sidney thought , a dreary , unbearable blank without it .
She cast aside her milking-dress with a thrill of distaste that tingle to her rosy fingertip .
As she slip into her blue-print afternoon dress her aunt call to her from below .
Sidney run out to the dark little entry and lean over the stair railing .
Below in the kitchen there be a hubbub of laughing , cry , quarrel child , and a reek of bad tobacco smoke drift up to the girl 's disgust nostril .
Aunt Jane be stand at the foot of the stair with a lamp in one hand and a year-old baby cling to the other .
She be a big shapeless woman with a round good-natured face -- cheerful and vulgar a a sunflower be Aunt Jane at all time and occasion .
`` I want to run over and see how Mrs. Brixby be this evening , Siddy , and you must take care of the baby till I get back . ''
Sidney sigh and go downstairs for the baby .
It never would have occur to her to protest or be petulant about it .
She have all her aunt 's sweetness of disposition , if she resemble her in nothing else .
She have not grumble because she have to rise at four that morning , get breakfast , milk the cow , bake bread , prepare seven child for school , get dinner , preserve twenty quart of strawberry , get tea , and milk the cow again .
All her day be alike as far a hard work and dullness go , but she accept them cheerfully and uncomplainingly .
But she do resent have to look after the baby when she want to write her letter .
She carry the baby to her room , spread a quilt on the floor for him to sit on , and give him a box of empty spool to play with .
Fortunately he be a phlegmatic infant , fond of stay in one place , and not give to roam about in search of adventure ; but Sidney know she would have to keep an eye on him , and it would be distract to literary effort .
She get out her box of paper and sit down by the little table at the window with a small kerosene lamp at her elbow .
The room be small -- a mere box above the kitchen which Sidney share with two small cousin .
Her bed and the cot where the little girls slept fill up almost all the available space .
The furniture be poor , but everything be neat -- it be the only neat room in the house , indeed , for tidiness be no beset virtue of Aunt Jane 's .
Opposite Sidney be a small muslined and befrilled toilet-table , above which hang an eight-by-six-inch mirror , in which Sidney saw herself reflect a she devoutly hop other people do not see her .
Just at that particular angle one eye appear to be as large a an orange , while the other be the size of a pea , and the mouth zigzag from ear to ear .
Sidney hat that mirror as virulently a she could hate anything .
It seem to her to typify all that be unlovely in her life .
The mirror of existence into which her fresh young soul have look for twenty year give back to her wistful gaze just such distortion of fair hope and ideal .
Half of the little table by which she sit be pile high with book -- old book , evidently well read and well-bred book , classic of fiction and verse every one of them , and all bearing on the flyleaf the name of Sidney Richmond , thereby mean not the girl at the table , but her college-bred young father who have die the day before she be bear .
Her mother have die the day after , and Sidney thereupon have come into the hand of good Aunt Jane , with those book for her dowry , since nothing else be leave after the expense of the double funeral have be pay .
One of the book have Sidney Richmond 's name print on the title-page instead of write on the flyleaf .
It be a thick little volume of poem , publish in his college day -- musical , unsubstantial , pretty little poem , every one of which the girl Sidney love and know by heart .
Sidney drop her pointed chin in her hand and look dreamily out into the moonlit night , while she think her letter out a little more fully before begin to write .
Her big brown eye be full of wistfulness and romance ; for Sidney be romantic , albeit a faithful and understanding acquaintance with her father 's book have give to her romance refinement and reason , and the delicacy of her own nature have impart to it a self-respecting bias .
Presently she begin to write , with a flush of real excitement on her face .
In the middle of thing the baby choke on a small twist spool and Sidney have to catch him up by the heel and hold him head downward until the trouble be eject .
Then she have to soothe him , and finally write the rest of her letter hold him on one arm and protect the epistle from the grab of his sticky little finger .
It be certainly letter-writing under difficulty , but Sidney seem to deal with them mechanically .
Her soul and understanding be elsewhere .
Four year before , when Sidney be sixteen , still call herself a schoolgirl by reason of the fact that she could be spar to attend school four month in the winter when work be slack , she have be much interested in the `` Maple Leaf '' department of the Montreal weekly her uncle take .
It be a page give over to youthful Canadians and fill with their contribution in the way of letter , verse , and prize essay .
Noms de plume be sign to these , badge be send to those who join the Maple Leaf Club , and a general delightful sense of mystery pervade the department .
Often a letter conclude with a request to the club member to correspond with the writer .
One such request go from Sidney under the pen-name of `` Ellen Douglas . ''
The girl be lonely in Plainfield ; she have no companion or associate such a she care for ; the Maple Leaf Club represent all that her life held of outward interest , and she long for something more .
Only one answer come to `` Ellen Douglas , '' and that be forward to her by the long-suffering editor of `` The Maple Leaf . ''
It be from John Lincoln of the Bar N Ranch , Alberta .
He write that , although his age debar him from membership in the club -LRB- he be twenty , and the limit be eighteen -RRB- , he read the letter of the department with much interest , and often have think of answer some of the request for correspondent .
He never have do so , but `` Ellen Douglas 's '' letter be so interesting that he have decide to write to her .
Would she be kind enough to correspond with him ?
Life on the Bar N , ten mile from the outpost of civilization , be lonely .
He be two year out from the east , and have not yet forget to be homesick at time .
Sidney like the letter and answer it .
Since then they have write to each other regularly .
There be nothing sentimental , hint at or imply , in the correspondence .
Whatever the fault of Sidney 's romantic vision be , they do not tend to precocious flirtation .
The Plainfield boy , attract by her beauty and repel by her indifference and aloofness , could have tell that .
She never expect to meet John Lincoln , nor do she wish to do so .
In the correspondence itself she find her pleasure .
John Lincoln write breezy account of ranch life and adventure on the far western plain , so alien and remote from snug , humdrum Plainfield life that Sidney always have the sensation of cross a gulf when she open a letter from the Bar N .
As for Sidney 's own letter , this be the way it read a she write it : `` The Evergreens , '' Plainfield .
Dear Mr. Lincoln : The very best letter I can write in the half-hour before the carriage will be at the door to take me to Mrs. Braddon 's dance shall be yours tonight .
I be sit here in the library arrayed in my smartest , new , white , silky gown , with a string of pearl which Uncle James give me today about my throat -- the dear , glistening , sheeny thing !
And I be look forward to the `` dance and delight '' of the evening with keen anticipation .
You ask me in your last letter if I do not sometimes grow weary of my endless round of dance and dinner and social function .
No , no , never !
I enjoy every one of them , every minute of them .
I love life and it bloom and brilliancy ; I love meet new people ; I love the ripple of music , the hum of laughter and conversation .
Every morning when I awaken the new day seem to me to be a good fairy who will bring me some beautiful gift of joy .
The gift she give me today be my sunset gallop on my grey mare Lady .
The thrill of it be in my vein yet .
I distance the others who ride with me and lead the homeward canter alone , rock along a dark , gleam road , shadowy with tall fir and pine , whose balsam make all the air resinous around me .
Before me be a long valley fill with purple dusk , and beyond it meadows of sunset and great lake of saffron and rise where a soul might lose itself in colour .
On my right be the harbour , silver over with a rise moon .
Oh , it be all glorious -- the clear air with it salt-sea tang , the aroma of the pine , the laughter of my friend behind me , the spring and rhythm of Lady 's grey satin body beneath me !
I want to ride on so forever , straight into the heart of the sunset .
Then home and to dinner .
We have a houseful of guest at present -- one of them an old statesman with a massive silver head , and eye that have look into people 's thought so long that you have an uncanny feeling that they can see right through your soul and read motif you dare not avow even to yourself .
I be terribly in awe of him at first , but when I get acquaint with him I find him charm .
He be not above talk delightful nonsense even to a girl .
I sit by him at dinner , and he talk to me -- not nonsense , either , this time .
He tell me of his political contest and diplomatic battle ; he be wise and witty and whimsical .
I felt a if I be drink some rare , stimulating mental wine .
What a privilege it be to meet such men and take a peep through their wise eye at the fascinating game of empire-building !
I meet another clever man a few evening ago .
A lot of u go for a sail on the harbour .
Mrs. Braddon 's house party come too .
We have three big white boat that skim down the moonlit channel like great white sea bird .
There be another boat far across the harbour , and the people in it be sing .
The music drift over the water to u , so sad and sweet and beguile that I could have cry for very pleasure .
One of Mrs. Braddon 's guest say to me : `` That be the soul of music with all it sense and earthliness refine away . ''
I have n't think about him before -- I have n't even catch his name in the general introduction .
He be a tall , slight man , with a worn , sensitive face and iron-grey hair -- a quiet man who have n't laugh or talk .
But he begin to talk to me then , and I forget all about the others .
I never have listen to anybody in the least like him .
He talk of book and music , of art and travel .
He have be all over the world , and have see everything everybody else have see and everything they have n't too , I think .
I seem to be look into an enchanted mirror where all my own dream and ideal be reflect back to me , but make , oh , so much more beautiful !
On my way home after the Braddon people have leave u somebody ask me how I like Paul Moore !
The man I have be talk with be Paul Moore , the great novelist !
I be almost glad I have n't know it while he be talk to me -- I should have be too awed and reverential to have really enjoy his conversation .
As it be , I have contradict him twice , and he have laugh and like it .
But his book will always have a new meaning to me henceforth , through the insight he himself have give me .
It be such meeting a these that give life it sparkle for me .
But much of it abide sweetness come from my friendship with Margaret Raleigh .
You will be weary of my rhapsody over her .
But she be such a rare and wonderful woman ; much old then I be , but so young in heart and soul and freshness of feeling !
She be to me mother and sister and wise , clear-sighted friend .
To her I go with all my perplexity and hope and triumph .
She have sympathy and understand for my every mood .
I love life so much for give me such a friendship !
This morning I waken at dawn and steal away to the shore before anyone else be up .
I have a delightful run-away .
The long , low-lying meadow between `` The Evergreens '' and the shore be dewy and fresh in that first light , that be a fine and purely tint a the heart of one of my white rose .
On the beach the water be purr in little blue ripple , and , oh , the sunrise out there beyond the harbour !
All the eastern Heaven be abloom with it .
And there be a wind that come dance and whistle up the channel to replace the beautiful silence with a music more beautiful still .
The rest of the folk be just come downstairs when I get back to breakfast .
They be all yawny , and some be grumpy , but I have wash my be in the sunrise and felt as blithesome a the day .
Oh , life be so good to live !
Tomorrow Uncle James 's new vessel , the White Lady , be to be launch .
We be go to make a festive occasion of it , and I be to christen her with a bottle of cobwebby old wine .
But I hear the carriage , and Aunt Jane be call me .
I have a great deal more to say -- about your letter , your big `` round-up '' and your tribulation with your Chinese cook -- but I 've only time now to say goodbye .
You wish me a lovely time at the dance and a full programme , do n't you ?
Yours sincerely , Sidney Richmond .
Aunt Jane come home presently and carry away her sleeping baby .
Sidney say her prayer , go to bed , and sleep soundly and serenely .
She mail her letter the next day , and a month later an answer come .
Sidney read it as soon a she leave the post office , and walk the rest of the way home a in a nightmare , star straight ahead of her with wide-open , unseeing brown eye .
John Lincoln 's letter be short , but the pertinent paragraph of it burn itself into Sidney 's brain .
He write : I be go east for a visit .
It be six year since I be home , and it seem like three time six .
I shall go by the C.P.R . , which pass through Plainfield , and I mean to stop off for a day .
You will let me call and see you , wo n't you ?
I shall have to take your permission for grant , a I shall be go before a letter from you can reach the Bar N. I leave for the east in five day , and shall look forward to our meeting with all possible interest and pleasure .
Sidney do not sleep that night , but toss restlessly about or cry in her pillow .
She be so pallid and hollow-eyed the next morning that Aunt Jane notice it , and ask her what the matter be .
`` Nothing , '' say Sidney sharply .
Sidney have never speak sharply to her aunt before .
The good woman shake her head .
She be afraid the child be `` take something . ''
`` Do n't do much today , Siddy , '' she say kindly .
`` Just lie around and take it easy till you get rest up .
I 'll fix you a dose of quinine . ''
Sidney refuse to lie around and take it easy .
She swallow the quinine meekly enough , but she work fiercely all day , hunt out superfluous task to do .
That night she sleep the sleep of exhaustion , but her dream be unenviable and the awakening be terrible .
Any day , any hour , might bring John Lincoln to Plainfield .
What should she do ?
Hide from him ?
Refuse to see him ?
But he would find out the truth just the same ; she would lose his friendship and respect just a surely .
Sidney tread the way of the transgressor , and find that it thorn pierce to bone and marrow .
Everything have come to an end -- nothing be leave to her !
In the untried recklessness of twenty untempered year she wish she could die before John Lincoln come to Plainfield .
The eye of youth could not see how she could possibly live afterward .
* * * * * Some day later a young man step from the C.P.R . train at Plainfield station and find his way to the one small hotel the place boast .
After get his supper he ask the proprietor if he could direct him to `` The Evergreens . ''
Caleb Williams look at his guest in bewilderment .
`` Never heerd o ' such a place , '' he say .
`` It be the name of Mr. Conway 's estate -- Mr. James Conway , '' explain John Lincoln .
`` Oh , Jim Conway 's place ! ''
say Caleb .
`` Did n't know that be what he call it .
Sartin I kin tell you whar ' to find it .
You see that road out thar ' ?
Well , just follow it straight along for a mile and a half till you come to a blacksmith 's forge .
Jim Conway 's house be just this side of it on the right -- back from the road a smart piece and no other handy .
You ca n't mistake it . ''
John Lincoln do not expect to mistake it , once he find it ; he know by heart what it appear like from Sidney 's description : an old stately mansion of mellow brick , cover with ivy and set back from the highway amid fine ancestral tree , with a pine-grove behind it , a river to the left , and a harbour beyond .
He stride along the road in the warm , ruddy sunshine of early evening .
It be not a bad-looking road at all ; the farmstead sprinkle along it be for the most part snug and wholesome enough ; yet somehow it be different from what he have expect it to be .
And there be no harbour or glimpse of distant sea visible .
Had the hotel-keeper make a mistake ?
Perhaps he have mean some other James Conway .
Presently he find himself before the blacksmith 's forge .
Beside it be a rickety , unpainted gate opening into a snake-fenced lane feather here and there with scrubby little spruce .
It run down a bare hill , cross a little ravine full of young white-stemmed birch , and up another bare hill to an equally bare crest where a farmhouse be perch -- a farmhouse paint a stark , star yellow and the ugly thing in farmhouse that John Lincoln have ever see , even among the log shack of the west .
He know now that he have be misdirect , but a there seem to be nobody about the forge he conclude that he have well go to the yellow house and inquire within .
He pass down the lane and over the little rustic bridge that span the brook .
Just beyond be another home-made gate of pole .
Lincoln open it , or rather he have his hand on the hasp of twisted withe which secure it , when he be suddenly arrest by the apparition of a girl , who flash around the curve of young birch beyond and stand before him with pant breath and quiver lip .
`` I beg your pardon , '' say John Lincoln courteously , drop the gate and lift his hat .
`` I be look for the house of Mr. James Conway -- ` The Evergreens . '
Can you direct me to it ? ''
`` That be Mr. James Conway 's house , '' say the girl , with the tragic air and tone of one driven to desperation and an impatient gesture of her hand toward the yellow nightmare above them .
`` I do n't think he can be the one I mean , '' say Lincoln perplexedly .
`` The man I be think of have a niece , Miss Richmond . ''
`` There be no other James Conway in Plainfield , '' say the girl .
`` This be his place -- nobody call it ` The Evergreens ' but myself .
I be Sidney Richmond . ''
For a moment they look at each other across the gate , sheer amazement and bewilderment hold John Lincoln mute .
Sidney , burn with shame , saw that this stranger be exceedingly good to look upon -- tall , clean-limbed , broad-shouldered , with clear-cut bronzed feature and a chin and eye that would have do honour to any man .
John Lincoln , among all his confused sensation , be aware that this slim , agitate young creature before him be the lovely thing he ever have see , so lithe be her figure , so glossy and dark and silken her bare , wind-ruffled hair , so big and brown and appeal her eye , so delicately oval her flushed cheek .
He felt that she be frighten and in trouble , and he want to comfort and reassure her .
But how could she be Sidney Richmond ?
`` I do n't understand , '' he say perplexedly .
`` Oh ! ''
Sidney throw out her hand in a burst of passionate protest .
`` No , and you never will understand -- I ca n't make you understand . ''
`` I do n't understand , '' say John Lincoln again .
`` Can you be Sidney Richmond -- the Sidney Richmond who have write to me for four year ? ''
`` I be . ''
`` Then , those letter -- '' `` Were all lie , '' say Sidney bluntly and desperately .
`` There be nothing true in them -- nothing at all .
This be my home .
We be poor .
Everything I tell you about it and my life be just imagination . ''
`` Then why do you write them ? ''
he ask blankly .
`` Why do you deceive me ? ''
`` Oh , I do n't mean to deceive you !
I never think of such a thing .
When you ask me to write to you I want to , but I do n't know what to write about to a stranger .
I just could n't write you about my life here , not because it be hard , but it be so ugly and empty .
So I write instead of the life I want to live -- the life I do live in imagination .
And when once I have begin , I have to keep it up .
I find it so fascinating , too !
Those letter make that other life seem real to me .
I never expect to meet you .
These last four day since your letter come have be dreadful to me .
Oh , please go away and forgive me if you can !
I know I can never make you understand how it come about . ''
Sidney turn away and hide her burn face against the cool white bark of the birch tree behind her .
It be bad than she have even think it would be .
He be so handsome , so manly , so earnest-eyed !
Oh , what a friend to lose !
John Lincoln open the gate and go up to her .
There be a great tenderness in his face , mingle with a little kindly , friendly amusement .
`` Please do n't distress yourself so , Sidney , '' he say , unconsciously use her Christian name .
`` I think I do understand .
I 'm not such a dull fellow a you take me for .
After all , those letter be true -- or , rather , there be truth in them .
You reveal yourself more faithfully in them than if you have write truly about your narrow outward life . ''
Sidney turn her flushed face and wet eye slowly toward him , a little smile struggle out amid the cloud of woe .
This young man be certainly good at understand .
`` You -- you 'll forgive me then ? ''
she stammer .
`` Yes , if there be anything to forgive .
And for my own part , I be glad you be not what I have always think you be .
If I have come here and find you what I expect , live in such a home a I expect , I never could have tell you or even thought of tell you what you have come to mean to me in these lonely year during which your letter have be the thing most eagerly look forward to .
I should have come this evening and spend an hour or so with you , and then have go away on the train tomorrow morning , and that would have be all .
`` But I find instead just a dreamy romantic little girl , much like my sister at home , except that she be a great deal cleverer .
And a a result I mean to stay a week at Plainfield and come to see you every day , if you will let me .
And on my way back to the Bar N I mean to stop off at Plainfield again for another week , and then I shall tell you something more -- something it would be a little too bold to say now , perhaps , although I could say it just as well and truly .
All this if I may .
May I , Sidney ? ''
He bend forward and look earnestly into her face .
Sidney felt a new , curious , inexplicable thrill at her heart .
`` Oh , yes .
-- I suppose so , '' she say shyly .
`` Now , take me up to the house and introduce me to your Aunt Jane , '' say John Lincoln in satisfied tone .
An Adventure on Island Rock `` Who be the man I saw talk to you in the hayfield ? ''
ask Aunt Kate , a Uncle Richard come to dinner .
`` Bob Marks , '' say Uncle Richard briefly .
`` I 've sell Laddie to him . ''
Ernest Hughes , the twelve-year-old orphan boy whom Uncle `` board and keep '' for the chore he do , suddenly stop eat .
`` Oh , Mr. Lawson , you 're not go to sell Laddie ? ''
he cry chokily .
Uncle Richard star at him .
Never before , in the five year that Ernest have live with him , have the quiet little fellow speak without be speak to , much less ventured to protest against anything Uncle Richard might do .
`` Certainly I be , '' answer the latter curtly .
`` Bob offer me twenty dollar for the dog , and he 's come after him next week . ''
`` Oh , Mr. Lawson , '' say Ernest , rise to his foot , his small , freckled face crimson .
`` Oh , do n't sell Laddie !
Please , Mr. Lawson , do n't sell him ! ''
`` What nonsense be this ? ''
say Uncle Richard sharply .
He be a man who brook no opposition from anybody , and who never change his mind when it be once make up .
`` Do n't sell Laddie ! ''
plead Ernest miserably .
`` He be the only friend I 've get .
I ca n't live if Laddie go away .
Oh , do n't sell him , Mr. Lawson ! ''
`` Sit down and hold your tongue , '' say Uncle Richard sternly .
`` The dog be mine , and I shall do with him a I think fit .
He be sell , and that be all there be about it .
Go on with your dinner . ''
But Ernest for the first time do not obey .
He snatch his cap from the back of his chair , dash it down over his eye , and run from the kitchen with a sob choke his breath .
Uncle Richard look angry , but Aunt Kate hasten to soothe him .
`` Do n't be vex with the boy , Richard , '' she say .
`` You know he be very fond of Laddie .
He 's have to do with him ever since he be a pup , and no doubt he feel badly at the thought of lose him .
I 'm rather sorry myself that you have sell the dog . ''
`` Well , he be sell and there 's an end of it .
I do n't say but that the dog be a good dog .
But he be of no use to u , and twenty dollar will come in mighty handy just now .
He 's worth that to Bob , for he be a good watch dog , so we 've both make a fair bargain . ''
Nothing more be say about Ernest or Laddie .
I have take no part in the discussion , for I felt no great interest in the matter .
Laddie be a nice dog ; Ernest be a quiet , inoffensive little fellow , five year young than myself ; that be all I think about either of them .
I be spend my vacation at Uncle Richard 's farm on the Nova Scotian Bay of Fundy shore .
I be a great favourite with Uncle Richard , partly because he have be much attach to my mother , his only sister , partly because of my strong resemblance to his only son , who have die several year before .
Uncle Richard be a stern , undemonstrative man , but I know that he entertain a deep and real affection for me , and I always enjoy my vacation sojourn at his place .
`` What be you go to do this afternoon , Ned ? ''
he ask , after the disturbance cause by Ernest 's outbreak have quiet down .
`` I think I 'll row out to Island Rock , '' I reply .
`` I want to take some view of the shore from it . ''
Uncle Richard nod .
He be much interested in my new camera .
`` If you 're on it about four o'clock , you 'll get a fine view of the ` Hole in the Wall ' when the sun begin to shine on the water through it , '' he say .
`` I 've often think it would make a handsome picture . ''
`` After I 've finish take the picture , I think I 'll go down shore to Uncle Adam 's and stay all night , '' I say .
`` Jim 's dark room be more convenient than mine , and he have some picture he be go to develop tonight , too . ''
I start for the shore about two o'clock .
Ernest be sit on the woodpile a I pass through the yard , with his arm about Laddie 's neck and his face bury in Laddie 's curly hair .
Laddie be a handsome and intelligent black-and-white Newfoundland , with a magnificent coat .
He and Ernest be great chum .
I felt sorry for the boy who be to lose his pet .
`` Do n't take it so hard , Ern , '' I say , try to comfort him .
`` Uncle will likely get another pup . ''
`` I do n't want any other pup ! ''
Ernest blurt out .
`` Oh , Ned , wo n't you try and coax your uncle not to sell him ?
Perhaps he 'd listen to you . ''
I shake my head .
I know Uncle Richard too well to hope that .
`` Not in this case , Ern , '' I say .
`` He would say it do not concern me , and you know nothing move him when he determine on a thing .
You 'll have to reconcile yourself to lose Laddie , I 'm afraid . ''
Ernest 's tow-coloured head go down on Laddie 's neck again , and I , decide that there be no use in say anything more , proceed towards the shore , which be about a mile from Uncle Richard 's house .
The beach along his farm and for several farm along shore be a lonely , untenanted one , for the fisher-folk all live two mile far down , at Rowley 's Cove .
About three hundred yard from the shore be the peculiar formation know a Island Rock .
This be a large rock that stand abruptly up out of the water .
Below , about the usual water-line , it be seam and fissure , but it summit rise up in a narrow , flat-topped peak .
At low tide twenty foot of it be above water , but at high tide it be six foot and often more under water .
I push Uncle Richard 's small flat down the rough path and row out to Island Rock .
Arriving there , I thrust the painter deep into a narrow cleft .
This be the usual way of moor it , and no doubt of it safety occur to me .
I scramble up the rock and around to the eastern end , where there be a broad space for stand and from which some capital view could be obtain .
The sea about the rock be calm , but there be quite a swell on and an off-shore breeze be blow .
There be no boat visible .
The tide be low , leave bare the curious cave and headland along shore , and I secure a number of excellent snapshot .
It be now three o'clock .
I must wait another hour yet before I could get the best view of the `` Hole in the Wall '' -- a huge , arch-like opening through a jutting headland to the west of me .
I go around to look at it , when I saw a sight that make me stop short in dismay .
This be nothing less than the flat , drift outward around the point .
The swell and suction of the water around the rock must have pull her loose -- and I be a prisoner !
At first my only feeling be one of annoyance .
Then a thought flash into my mind that make me dizzy with fear .
The tide would be high that night .
If I could not escape from Island Rock I would inevitably be drown .
I sit down limply on a ledge and try to look matter fairly in the face .
I could not swim ; call for help could not reach anybody ; my only hope lay in the chance of somebody pass down the shore or of some boat appear .
I look at my watch .
It be a quarter past three .
The tide would begin to turn about five , but it would be at least ten before the rock would be cover .
I have , then , little more than six hour to live unless rescue .
The flat be by this time out of sight around the point .
I hop that the sight of an empty flat drift down shore might attract someone 's attention and lead to investigation .
That seem to be my only hope .
No alarm would be felt at Uncle Richard 's because of my non-appearance .
They would suppose I have go to Uncle Adam 's .
I have hear of time seem long to a person in my predicament , but to me it seem fairly to fly , for every moment decrease my chance of rescue .
I determine I would not give way to cowardly fear , so , with a murmured prayer for help , I set myself to the task of wait for death as bravely a possible .
At interval I shout as loudly a I could and , when the sun come to the proper angle for the best view of the `` Hole in the Wall , '' I take the picture .
It afterwards turn out to be a great success , but I have never be able to look at it without a shudder .
At five the tide begin to come in .
Very , very slowly the water rise around Island Rock .
Up , up , up it come , while I watch it with fascinated eye , feel like a rat in a trap .
The sun fell low and low ; at eight o'clock the moon rise large and bright ; at nine it be a lovely night , dear , calm , bright a day , and the water be swish over the high ledge of the rock .
With some difficulty I climb to the top and sit there to await the end .
I have no longer any hope of rescue but , by a great effort , I preserve self-control .
If I have to die , I would at least face death staunchly .
But when I think of my mother at home , it task all my energy to keep from break down utterly .
Suddenly I hear a whistle .
Never be sound so sweet .
I stand up and peer eagerly shoreward .
Coming around the `` Hole in the Wall '' headland , on top of the cliff , I saw a boy and a dog .
I send a wild halloo ring shoreward .
The boy start , stop and look out towards Island Rock .
The next moment he hail me .
It be Ernest 's voice , and it be Laddie who be bark beside him .
`` Ernest , '' I shout wildly , `` run for help -- quick !
quick !
The tide will be over the rock in half an hour !
Hurry , or you will be too late ! ''
Instead of start off at full speed , a I expect him to do , Ernest stand still for a moment , and then begin to pick his step down a narrow path over the cliff , follow by Laddie .
`` Ernest , '' I shout frantically , `` what be you do ?
Why do n't you go for help ? ''
Ernest have by this time reach a narrow ledge of rock just above the water-line .
I notice that he be carry something over his arm .
`` It would take too long , '' he shout .
`` By the time I get to the Cove and a boat could row back here , you 'd be drown .
Laddie and I will save you .
Is there anything there you can tie a rope to ?
I 've a coil of rope here that I think will be long enough to reach you .
I 've be down to the Cove and Alec Martin send it up to your uncle . ''
I look about me ; a smooth , round hole have be worn clean through a thin part of the apex of the rock .
`` I could fasten the rope if I have it ! ''
I call .
`` But how can you get it to me ? ''
For answer Ernest tie a bit of driftwood to the rope and put it into Laddie 's mouth .
The next minute the dog be swim out to me .
As soon a he come close I catch the rope .
It be just long enough to stretch from shore to rock , allow for a couple of hitch which Ernest give around a small boulder on the ledge .
I tie my camera case on my head by mean of some string I find in my pocket , then I slip into the water and , hold to the rope , go hand over hand to the shore with Laddie swim beside me .
Ernest hold on to the shoreward end of the rope like grim death , a task that be no light one for his small arm .
When I finally scramble up beside him , his face be drip with perspiration and he tremble like a leaf .
`` Ern , you be a brick ! ''
I exclaim .
`` You 've save my life ! ''
`` No , it be Laddie , '' say Ernest , refuse to take any credit at all .
We hurry home and arrive at Uncle Richard 's about ten , just a they be go to bed .
When Uncle Richard hear what have happen , he turn very pale , and murmur , `` Thank God ! ''
Aunt Kate get me out of my wet clothes as quickly a possible , put me away to bed in hot blanket and dose me with ginger tea .
I sleep like a top and felt none the bad for my experience the next morning .
At the breakfast table Uncle Richard scarcely speak .
But , just a we finish , he say abruptly to Ernest , `` I 'm not go to sell Laddie .
You and the dog save Ned 's life between you , and no dog who help do that be ever go to be sell by me .
Henceforth he belong to you .
I give him to you for your very own . ''
`` Oh , Mr. Lawson ! ''
say Ernest , with shin eye .
I never saw a boy look so happy .
As for Laddie , who be sit beside him with his shaggy head on Ernest 's knee , I really believe the dog understood , too .
The look in his eye be almost human .
Uncle Richard lean over and pat him .
`` Good dog ! ''
he say .
`` Good dog ! ''
At Five O'Clock in the Morning Fate , in the guise of Mrs. Emory drop a milk-can on the platform under his open window , awaken Murray that morning .
Had not Mrs. Emory drop that can , he would have slumber peacefully until his usual hour for rise -- a late one , be it admitted , for of all the boarder at Sweetbriar Cottage Murray be the most irregular in his habit .
`` When a young man , '' Mrs. Emory be wont to remark sagely and a trifle severely , `` prowl about that pond half of the night , a-chasing of thing what he call ` moonlight effecks , ' it ai n't to be wonder at that he 's sleepy in the morning .
And it ai n't the convenient thing , nuther and noways , to keep the breakfast table set till the farm folk be think of dinner .
But them artist men be not like other people , say what you will , and allowance have to be make for them .
And I must say that I like him real well and approves of him every other way . ''
If Murray have sleep late that morning -- well , he shudder yet over that `` if . ''
But aforesaid Fate saw to it that he wake when the hour of destiny and the milk-can struck , and have awaken he find he could not go to sleep again .
It suddenly occur to him that he have never see a sunrise on the pond .
Doubtless it would be very lovely down there in those dewy meadow at such a primitive hour ; he decide to get up and see what the world look like in the young daylight .
He scowl at a letter lie on his dress table and thrust it into his pocket that it might be out of sight .
He have write it the night before and the writing of it be go to cost him several thing -- a prospective million among others .
So it be hardly to be wonder at if the sight of it do not reconcile him to the joy of early rising .
`` Dear life and heart ! ''
exclaim Mrs. Emory , pause in the act of scald a milk-can when Murray emerge from a side door .
`` What on earth be the matter , Mr. Murray ?
You ai n't sick now , surely ?
I tell you them pond fog be p ` isen after night !
If you 've go and get -- '' `` Nothing be the matter , dear lady , '' interrupt Murray , `` and I have n't go and get anything except an acute attack of early rising which be not in the least likely to become chronic .
But at what hour of the night do you get up , you wonderful woman ?
Or rather do you ever go to bed at all ?
Here be the sun only begin to rise and -- positively yes , you have all your cow milk . ''
Mrs. Emory purr with delight .
`` Folks a have fourteen cow to milk have to rise betimes , '' she answer with proud humility .
`` Laws , I do n't complain -- I 've lot of help with the milking .
How Mrs. Palmer manage , I really can not comperhend -- or rather , how she have manage .
I suppose she 'll be all right now since her niece come last night .
I saw her post to the pond pasture not ten minute ago .
She 'll have to milk all them seven cow herself .
But dear life and heart !
Here I be palaver away and not a bite of breakfast ready for you ! ''
`` I do n't want any breakfast until the regular time for it , '' assure Murray .
`` I 'm go down to the pond to see the sun rise . ''
`` Now do n't you go and get catch in the ma ` sh , '' anxiously call Mrs. Emory , a she never fail to do when she saw him start for the pond .
Nobody ever have get catch in the marsh , but Mrs. Emory live in a chronic state of fear lest someone should .
`` And if you once get stick in that black mud you 'd be suck right down and never see or hear tell of again till the day of judgment , like Adam Palmer 's cow , '' she be wont to warn her boarder .
Murray seek his favourite spot for pond dreaming -- a bloomy corner of the pasture that run down into the blue water , with a dump of leafy maple on the left .
He be very glad he have rise early .
A miracle be be work before his very eyes .
The world be in a flush and tremor of maiden loveliness , instinct with all the marvellous fleeting charm of girlhood and spring and young morning .
Overhead the sky be a vast high-sprung arch of unstained crystal .
Down over the sand dune , where the pond run out into the sea , be a great arc of primrose smitten through with auroral crimsonings .
Beneath it the pond water shimmer with a hundred fairy hue , but just before him they be clear a a flawless mirror .
The field around him glisten with dew , and a little wandering wind , blow lightly from some bourne in the hill , stray down over the slope , bring with it an unimaginable odour and freshness , and flutter over the pond , leave a little path of dance silver ripple across the mirror-glory of the water .
Birds be sing in the beech wood over on Orchard Knob Farm , answer to each other from shore to shore , until the very air be tremulous with the elfin music of this wonderful midsummer dawn .
`` I will get up at sunrise every morning of my life hereafter , '' exclaim Murray rapturously , not mean a syllable of it , but devoutly believe he do .
Just a the fiery disc of the sun peer over the sand dune Murray hear music that be not of the bird .
It be a girl 's voice sing beyond the maple to his left -- a clear sweet voice , blithely trill out the old-fashioned song , `` Five O'Clock in the Morning . ''
`` Mrs. Palmer 's niece ! ''
Murray sprang to his foot and tiptoed cautiously through the maple .
He have hear so much from Mrs. Palmer about her niece that he felt reasonably well acquaint with her .
Moreover , Mrs. Palmer have assure him that Mollie be a very pretty girl .
Now a pretty girl milking cow at sunrise in the meadow sound well .
Mrs. Palmer have not over-rated her niece 's beauty .
Murray say so to himself with a little whistle of amazement a he lean unseen on the pasture fence and look at the girl who be milk a placid Jersey less than ten yard away from him .
Murray 's artistic instinct respond to the whole scene with a thrill of satisfaction .
He could see only her profile , but that be perfect , and the colouring of the oval cheek and the beautiful curve of the chin be something to adore .
Her hair , ruffle into lovable little ringlet by the morning wind , be coil in glisten chestnut mass high on her bare head , and her arm , bare to the elbow , be as white a marble .
Presently she begin to sing again , and this time Murray join in .
She half rise from her milk stool and cast a startled glance at the maple .
Then she drop back again and begin to milk determinedly , but Murray could have swear that he saw a demure smile hover about her lip .
That , and the revelation of her full face , decide him .
He spring over the fence and saunter across the intervene space of lush clover blossom .
`` Good morning , '' he say coolly .
He have forget her other name , and it do not matter ; at five o'clock in the morning people who meet in dewy clover field might disregard the conventionality .
`` Is n't it rather a large contract for you to be milk seven cow all alone ?
May I help you ? ''
Mollie look up at him over her shoulder .
She have glorious grey eye .
Her face be serene and undisturbed .
`` Can you milk ? ''
she ask .
`` Unlikely a it may seem , I can , '' say Murray .
`` I have never confess it to Mrs. Emory , because I be afraid she would inveigle me into milk her fourteen cow .
But I do n't mind help you .
I learn to milk when I be a shaver on my vacation at a grandfatherly farm .
May I have that extra pail ? ''
Murray capture a milking stool and round up another Jersey .
Before sit down he seem struck with an idea .
`` My name be Arnold Murray .
I board at Sweetbriar Cottage , next farm to Orchard Knob .
That make u near neighbour . ''
`` I suppose it do , '' say Mollie .
Murray mentally decide that her voice be the sweet he have ever hear .
He be glad he have arrange his cow at such an angle that he could study her profile .
It be amaze that Mrs. Palmer 's niece should have such a profile .
It look a if century of fine breeding be responsible for it .
`` What a morning ! ''
he say enthusiastically .
`` It hark back to the day when earth be young .
They must have have just such morning a this in Eden . ''
`` Do you always get up so early ? ''
ask Mollie practically .
`` Always , '' say Murray without a blush .
Then -- `` But no , that be a fib , and I can not tell fibs to you .
The truth be your tribute .
I never get up early .
It be fate that rouse me and bring me here this morning .
The morning be a miracle -- and you , I might suppose you be bear of the sunrise , if Mrs. Palmer have n't tell me all about you . ''
`` What do she tell you about me ? ''
ask Mollie , change cow .
Murray discover that she be tall and that the big blue print apron shroud a singularly graceful figure .
`` She say you be the best-looking girl in Bruce county .
I have see very few of the girl in Bruce county , but I know she be right . ''
`` That compliment be not nearly so pretty a the sunrise one , '' say Mollie reflectively .
`` Mrs. Palmer have tell me thing about you , '' she add .
`` Curiosity know no gender , '' hint Murray .
`` She say you be good-looking and lazy and different from other people . ''
`` All compliment , '' say Murray in a gratified tone .
`` Lazy ? ''
`` Certainly .
Laziness be a virtue in these strenuous day , I be not bear with it , but I have painstakingly acquire it , and I be proud of my success .
I have time to enjoy life . ''
`` I think that I like you , '' say Mollie .
`` You have the merit of be able to enter into a situation , '' he assure her .
When the last Jersey be milk they carry the pail down to the spring where the creamer be sunk and strain the milk into them .
Murray wash the pail and Mollie wipe them and set them in a gleaming row on the shelf under a big maple .
`` Thank you , '' she say .
`` You be not go yet , '' say Murray resolutely .
`` The time I save you in milk three cow belong to me .
We will spend it in a walk along the pond shore .
I will show you a path I have discover under the beech .
It be just wide enough for two .
Come . ''
He take her hand and draw her through the copse into a green lane , where the fern grow thickly on either side and the pond water plash dreamily below them .
He keep her hand in his a they go down the path , and she do not try to withdraw it .
About them be the great , pure silence of the morning , faintly thread with caress sound -- croon of bird , gurgle of water , sough of wind .
The spirit of youth and love hover over them and they speak no word .
When they finally come out on a little green nook swimming in early sunshine and arch over by maple , with the wide shimmer of the pond before it and the gold dust of blossom over the grass , the girl draw a long breath of delight .
`` It be a morning left over from Eden , be n't it ? ''
say Murray .
`` Yes , '' say Mollie softly .
Murray bent toward her .
`` You be Eve , '' he say .
`` You be the only woman in the world -- for me .
Adam must have tell Eve just what he think about her the first time he saw her .
There be no conventionality in Eden -- and people could not have take long to make up their mind .
We be in Eden just now .
One can say what he think in Eden without be ridiculous .
You be divinely fair , Eve .
Your eye be star of the morning -- your cheek have the flush it steal from the sunrise-your lip be red than the rose of paradise .
And I love you , Eve . ''
Mollie lower her eye and the long fringe of her lash lay in a burnished semi-circle on her cheek .
`` I think , '' she say slowly , `` that it must have be very delightful in Eden .
But we be not really there , you know -- we be only play that we be .
And it be time for me to go back .
I must get the breakfast -- that sound too prosaic for paradise . ''
Murray bent still closer .
`` Before we remember that we be only play at paradise , will you kiss me , dear Eve ? ''
`` You be very audacious , '' say Mollie coldly .
`` We be in Eden yet , '' he urge .
`` That make all the difference . ''
`` Well , '' say Mollie .
And Murray kiss her .
They have pass back over the fern path and be in the pasture before either spoke again .
Then Murray say , `` We have leave Eden behind -- but we can always return there when we will .
And although we be only play at paradise , I be not play at love .
I mean all I say , Mollie . ''
`` Have you mean it often ? ''
ask Mollie significantly .
`` I never mean it -- or even play at it -- before , '' he answer .
`` I do -- at one time -- contemplate the possibility of play at it .
But that be long ago -- a long ago a last night .
I be glad to the core of my soul that I decide against it before I meet you , dear Eve .
I have the letter of decision in my coat pocket this moment .
I mean to mail it this afternoon . '' ''
` Curiosity know no gender , ' '' quote Mollie .
`` Then , to satisfy your curiosity , I must bore you with some personal history .
My parent die when I be a little chap , and my uncle bring me up .
He have be immensely good to me , but he be a bit of a tyrant .
Recently he pick out a wife for me -- the daughter of an old sweetheart of his .
I have never even see her .
But she have arrive in town on a visit to some relative there .
Uncle Dick write to me to return home at once and pay my court to the lady ; I protest .
He write again -- a letter , short and the reverse of sweet .
If I refuse to do my best to win Miss Mannering he would disown me -- never speak to me again -- cut me off with a quarter .
Uncle always mean what he say -- that be one of our family trait , you understand .
I spend some miserable , undecided day .
It be not the threat of disinheritance that worry me , although when you have be bring up to regard yourself a a prospective millionaire it be rather difficult to adjust your vision to a pauper focus .
But it be the thought of alienate Uncle Dick .
I love the dear , determine old chap like a father .
But last night my guardian angel be with me and I decide to remain my own man .
So I write to Uncle Dick , respectfully but firmly decline to become a candidate for Miss Mannering 's hand . ''
`` But you have never see her , '' say Mollie .
`` She may be -- almost -- charm . '' ''
` If she be not fair to me , what care I how fair she be ? ' ''
quote Murray .
`` As you say , she may be -- almost charming ; but she be not Eve .
She be merely one of a million other woman , as far a I be concerned .
Do n't let 's talk of her .
Let u talk only of ourselves -- there be nothing else that be half so interesting . ''
`` And will your uncle really cast you off ? ''
ask Mollie .
`` Not a doubt of it . ''
`` What will you do ? ''
`` Work , dear Eve .
My carefully acquire laziness must be throw to the wind and I shall work .
That be the rule outside of Eden .
Do n't worry .
I 've paint picture that have actually be sell .
I 'll make a living for u somehow . ''
`` Us ? ''
`` Of course .
You be engage to me . ''
`` I be not , '' say Mollie indignantly .
`` Mollie !
Mollie !
After that kiss !
Fie , fie ! ''
`` You be very absurd , '' say Mollie , `` But your absurdity have be amuse .
I have -- yes , positively -- I have enjoy your Eden comedy .
But now you must not come any further with me .
My aunt might not approve .
Here be my path to Orchard Knob farmhouse .
There , I presume , be yours to Sweetbriar Cottage .
Good morning . ''
`` I be come over to see you this afternoon , '' say Murray coolly .
`` But you need n't be afraid .
I will not tell tale out of Eden .
I will be a hypocrite and pretend to Mrs. Palmer that we have never meet before .
But you and I will know and remember .
Now , you may go .
I reserve to myself the privilege of stand here and watch you out of sight . ''
* * * * * That afternoon Murray stroll over to Orchard Knob , go into the kitchen without knock a be the habit in that free and easy world .
Mrs. Palmer be lie on the lounge with a pungent handkerchief bound about her head , but keep a vigilant eye on a very pretty , very plump brown-eyed girl who be stir a kettleful of cherry preserve on the range .
`` Good afternoon , Mrs. Palmer , '' say Murray , wonder where Mollie be .
`` I 'm sorry to see that you look something like an invalid . ''
`` I 've a raging , ramp headache , '' say Mrs. Palmer solemnly .
`` I have it all night and I 'm good for nothing .
Mollie , you 'd better take them cherry off .
Mr. Murray , this be my niece , Mollie Booth . ''
`` What ? ''
say Murray explosively .
`` Miss Mollie Booth , '' repeat Mrs. Palmer in a louder tone .
Murray regain outward self-control and bow to the blushing Mollie .
`` And what about Eve ? ''
he think helplessly .
`` Who -- what be she ?
Did I dream her ?
Was she a phantom of delight ?
No , no , phantom do n't milk cow .
She be flesh and blood .
No chilly nymph exhale from the mist of the marsh could have give a kiss like that . ''
`` Mollie have come to stay the rest of the summer with me , '' say Mrs. Palmer .
`` I hope to goodness my tribulation with hired girl be over at last .
They have make a wreck of me . ''
Murray rapidly reflect .
This development , he decide , release him from his promise to tell no tale .
`` I meet a young lady down in the pond pasture this morning , '' he say deliberately .
`` I talk with her for a few minute .
I suppose her to be your niece .
Who be she ? ''
`` Oh , that be Miss Mannering , '' say Mrs. Palmer .
`` What ? ''
say Murray again .
`` Mannering -- Dora Mannering , '' say Mrs. Palmer loudly , wonder if Mr. Murray be lose his hearing .
`` She come here last night just to see me .
I have n't see her since she be a child of twelve .
I use to be her nurse before I be marry .
I be that proud to think she think it worth her while to look me up .
And , mind you , this morning , when she find me cripple with headache and not able to do a hand 's turn , that girl , Mr. Murray , go and milk seven cow '' -- `` only four , '' murmur Murray , but Mrs. Palmer do not hear him -- `` for me .
Could n't prevent her .
She say she have learn to milk for fun one summer when she be in the country , and she do it .
And then she get breakfast for the men -- Mollie do n't come till the ten o'clock train .
Miss Mannering be as capable a if she have be riz on a farm . ''
`` Where be she now ? ''
demanded Murray .
`` Oh , she 's go . ''
`` What ? ''
`` Gone , '' shout Mrs. Palmer , `` go .
She leave on the train Mollie come on .
Gracious me , have the man go crazy ?
He have n't seem like himself at all this afternoon . ''
Murray have bolt madly out of the house and be stride down the lane .
Blind fool -- unspeakable idiot that he have be !
To take her for Mrs. Palmer 's niece -- that peerless creature with the calm acceptance of any situation , which mark the woman of the world , with the fine appreciation and quickness of repartee that spoke of generation of culture -- to imagine that she could be Mollie Booth !
He have be blind , besottedly blind .
And now he have lose her !
She would never forgive him ; she have go without a word or sign .
As he reach the last curve of the lane where it loop about the apple tree , a plump figure come fly down the orchard slope .
`` Mr. Murray , Mr. Murray , '' Mollie Booth call breathlessly .
`` Will you please come here just a minute ? ''
Murray cross over to the pal rather grumpily .
He do not want to talk with Mollie Booth just then .
Confound it , what do the girl want ?
Why be she look so mysterious ?
Mollie produce a little square grey envelope from some feminine hide place and hand it over the paling .
`` She give me this at the station -- Miss Mannering do , '' she gasp , `` and ask me to give it to you without let Aunt Emily Jane see .
I could n't get a chanst when you be in , but as soon a you go I slip out by the porch door and follow you .
You go so fast I near die try to head you off . ''
`` You dear little soul , '' say Murray , suddenly radiant .
`` It be too bad you have have to put yourself so out of breath on my account .
But I be immensely oblige to you .
The next time your young man want a trusty private messenger just refer him to me . ''
`` Git away with you , '' giggle Mollie .
`` I must hurry back ` fore Aunt Emily Jane git wind I 'm go .
I hope there 's good news in your girl 's letter .
My , but do n't you look flat when Aunt say she 'd go ! ''
Murray beam at her idiotically .
When she have vanish among the tree he open his letter .
`` Dear Mr. Murray , '' it run , `` your unblushing audacity of the morning deserve some punishment .
I hereby punish you by prompt departure from Orchard Knob .
Yet I do not dislike audacity , at some time , in some place , in some people .
It be only from a sense of duty that I punish it in this case .
And it be really pleasant in Eden .
If you do not mail that letter , and if you still persist in your very absurd interpretation of the meaning of Eve 's kiss , we may meet again in town .
Until then I remain , `` Very sincerely yours , `` Dora Lynne Mannering . ''
Murray kiss the grey letter and put it tenderly away in his pocket .
Then he take his letter to his uncle and tear it into tiny fragment .
Finally he look at his watch .
`` If I hurry , I can catch the afternoon train to town , '' he say .
Aunt Susanna 's Birthday Celebration Good afternoon , Nora May .
I 'm real glad to see you .
I 've be watch you come down the hill and I hop you 'd turn in at our gate .
Going to visit with me this afternoon ?
That 's good .
I 'm feel so happy and delighted and I 've be hanker for someone to tell it all to .
Tell you about it ?
Well , I guess I might as well .
It ai n't any breach of confidence .
You do n't know Anne Douglas ?
She teach school here three year ago , afore your folk move over from Talcott .
She belong up Montrose way and she be only eighteen when she come here to teach .
She board with u and her and me be the great chum .
She be just a sweet girl .
She be the pretty teacher we ever have , and that 's say a good deal , for Springdale have always be note for get good-looking schoolmarm , just a Miller 's Road be note for it humly one .
Anne have yard of brown wavy hair and big , dark blue eye .
Her face be kind o ' pale , but when she smile you would have to smile too , if you 'd be chief mourner at your own funeral .
She be a well-spring of joy in the house , and we all love her .
Gilbert Martin begin to drive her the very first week she be here .
Gilbert be my sister Julia 's son , and a fine young fellow he be .
It ai n't good manner to brag of your own relation , but I 'm always forget and do it .
Gil be a great pet of mine .
He be so bright and nice-mannered everybody like him .
Him and Anne be a fine-looking couple , Nora May .
Not but what they have their shortcoming .
Anne 's nose be a mite too long and Gil have a crook mouth .
Besides , they be both pretty proud and sperrited and high-strung .
But they think an awful lot of each other .
It make me feel young again to see 'em .
Anne be n't a mossel vain , but night she expect Gil she 'd prink for hour afore her glass , fix her hair this way and that , and try on all her good clothes to see which become her most .
I use to love her for it .
And I use to love to see the way Gil 's face would light up when she come into a room or place where he be .
Amanda Perkins , she say to me once , `` Anne Douglas and Gil Martin be most terrible struck on each other . ''
And she say it in a tone that indicate that it be a dreadful disgraceful and unbecoming state of affair .
Amanda have a disappointment once and it sour her .
I immediately respond , `` Yes , they be most terrible struck on each other , '' and I say it in a tone that indicate I think it a most beautiful and lovely thing that they should be so .
And so it be .
You 're rather too young to be think of such thing , Nora May , but you 'll remember my word when the time come .
Another nephew of mine , James Ebenezer Lawson -- he call himself James E. back there in town , and I do n't blame him , for I never could stand Ebenezer for a name myself ; but that 's neither here nor there .
Well , he say their love be idyllic , I ai n't very sure what that mean .
I look it up in the dictionary after James Ebenezer leave -- I would n't display my ignorance afore him -- but I ca n't say that I be much the wiser for it .
Anyway , it mean something real nice ; I be sure of that by the way James Ebenezer speak and the wistful look in his eye .
James Ebenezer be n't marry ; he be to have be , and she die a month afore the wedding day .
He be never the same man again .
Well , to get back to Gilbert and Anne .
When Anne 's school year end in June she resign and go home to get ready to be marry .
The wedding be to be in September , and I promise Anne faithful I 'd go over to Montrose in August for two week and help her to get her quilt ready .
Anne think that nobody could quilt like me .
I be as tickle a a girl at the thought of visit with Anne for two week , but I never go ; thing happen before August .
I do n't know rightly how the trouble begin .
Other folk -- jealous folk -- make mischief .
Anne be thirty mile away and Gilbert could n't see her every day to keep matter clear and fair .
Besides , a I 've say , they be both proud and high-sperrited .
The upshot of it be they have a terrible quarrel and the engagement be break .
When two people do n't care overly much for each other , Nora May , a quarrel never amount to much between them , and it 's soon make up .
But when they love each other good than life it cut so deep and hurt so much that nine time out of ten they wo n't ever forgive each other .
The more you love anybody , Nora May , the more he can hurt you .
To be sure , you 're too young to be think of such thing .
It all come like a thunderclap on Gil 's friend here at Greendale , because we have n't ever suspect thing be go wrong .
The first thing we know be that Anne have go up west to teach school again at St. Mary 's , eighty mile away , and Gilbert , he go out to Manitoba on a harvest excursion and stay there .
It just about break his parent ' heart .
He be their only child and they just worship him .
Gil and Anne both write to me off and on , but never a word , not so much a a name , do they say of each other .
I 'd ` a ' writ and ask 'em the right of the fuss if I could , in hope of patch it up , but I ca n't write now -- my hand be too shaky -- and mebbe it be just as well , for meddling be terribly risky work in a love trouble , Nora May .
Ninety-nine time out of a hundred the last state of a meddler and them she meddle with be bad than the first .
So I just set tight and say nothing , while everybody else in the clan be talk Anne and Gil sixty word to the minute .
Well , last birthday morning I be feel terrible disperrited .
I have make up my mind that my birthday be always to be a good thing for other people , and there do n't seem one blessed thing I could do to make anybody glad .
Emma Matilda and George and the child be all well and happy and want for nothing that I could give them .
I begin to be afraid I 'd live long enough , Nora May .
When a woman get to the point where she ca n't give a gift of joy to anyone , there ai n't much use in her living .
I felt real old and wear out and useless .
I be sit here under these very tree -- they be just bud out in leaf then , a young and cheerful a if they be n't a hundred year old .
And I sigh right out loud and say , `` Oh , Grandpa Holland , it 's time I be put away up on the hill there with you . ''
And with that the gate bang and there be Nancy Jane Whitmore 's boy , Sam , with two letter for me .
One be from Anne up at St. Mary 's and the other be from Gil out in Manitoba .
I read Anne 's first .
She just strike right into thing in the first paragraph .
She say her year at St. Mary 's be nearly up , and when it be she mean to quit teaching and go away to New York and learn to be a trained nurse .
She say she be just broken-hearted about Gilbert , and would always love him to the day of her death .
But she know he do n't care anything more about her after the way he have act , and there be nothing left for her in life but to do something for other people , and so on and so on , for twelve mortal page .
Anne be a fine writer , and I just cry like a babe over that letter , it be so touching , although I be enjoy myself hugely all the time , I be so delighted to find out that Anne love Gilbert still .
I be get skeered she do n't , her letter all winter have be so kind of jokey and frivolous , all about the good time she be have , and the party she go to , and the new dress she get .
New dress !
When I read that letter of Anne 's , I know that all the purple and fine linen in the world be just like so much sackcloth and ash to her as long a Gilbert be sulk out on a prairie farm .
Well , I wipe my eye and polish up my spec , but I might have spar myself the trouble , for in five minute , Nora May , there be I sob again ; over Gilbert 's letter .
By the most curious coincidence he have open his heart to me too .
Being a man , he be n't so discursive a Anne ; he say his say in four page , but I could read the heartache between the line .
He write that he be go to Klondike and would start in a month 's time .
He be sick of living now that he 'd lose Anne .
He say he love her good than his life and always would , and could never forget her , but he know she do n't care anything about him now after the way she 'd act , and he want to get a far away from her and the torture thought of her a he could .
So he be go to Klondike -- go to Klondike , Nora May , when his mother be write to him to come home every week and Anne be break her heart for him at St. Mary 's .
Well , I fold up them letter and , say I , `` Grandpa Holland , I guess my birthday celebration be here ready to hand . ''
I think real hard .
I could n't write myself to explain to those two people that they each think the world of each other still -- my hand be too stiff ; and I could n't get anyone else to write because I could n't let out what they 'd tell me in confidence .
So I do a mean , dishonourable thing , Nora May .
I send Anne 's letter to Gilbert and Gilbert 's to Anne .
I ask Emma Matilda to address them , and Emma Matilda do it and ask no question .
I bring her up that way .
Then I settle down to wait .
In less than a month Gilbert 's mother have a letter from him say that he be come home to settle down and marry Anne .
He arrive home yesterday and last night Anne come to Springdale on her way home from St. Mary 's .
They come to see me this morning and say thing to me I ai n't go to repeat because they would sound fearful vain .
They be so happy that they make me feel a if it be a good thing to have live eighty year in a world where folk could be so happy .
They say their new joy be my birthday gift to them .
The wedding be to be in September and I 'm go to Montrose in August to help Anne with her quilt .
I do n't think anything will happen to prevent this time -- no quarrelling , anyhow .
Those two young creature have learn their lesson .
You 'd better take it to heart too , Nora May .
It 's less trouble to learn it at second hand .
Do n't you ever quarrel with your real beau -- it do n't matter about the sham one , of course .
Do n't take offence at trifle or listen to what other people tell you about him -- outsider , that be , that want to make mischief .
What you think about him be of more importance than what they do .
To be sure , you 're too young yet to be think of such thing at all .
But just mind what old Aunt Susanna tell you when your time come .
Bertie 's New Year He stand on the sag doorstep and look out on the snowy world .
His hand be clasp behind him , and his thin face wear a thoughtful , puzzled look .
The door behind him open jerkingly , and a scowling woman come out with a pan of dishwater in her hand .
`` Ai n't you go yet , Bert ? ''
she say sharply .
`` What in the world be you hang round for ? ''
`` It 's early yet , '' say Bertie cheerfully .
`` I think maybe George Fraser 'd be along and I 'd get a lift as far a the store . ''
`` Well , I never saw such laziness !
No wonder old Sampson wo n't keep you long than the holiday if you 're no smart than that .
Goodness , if I do n't settle that boy ! ''
-- a the sound of fretful cry come from the kitchen behind her .
`` What be wrong with William John ? ''
ask Bertie .
`` Why , he want to go out coast with those Robinson boy , but he ca n't .
He have n't get any mitten and he would catch his death of cold again . ''
Her voice seem to imply that William John have die of cold several time already .
Bertie look soberly down at his old , well-darned mitten .
It be very cold , and he would have a great many errand to run .
He shiver , and look up at his aunt 's hard face a she stand wipe her dish-pan with a grim frown which bode no good to the discontent William John .
Then he suddenly pull off his mitten and hold them out .
`` Here -- he can have mine .
I 'll get on without them well enough . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
say Mrs. Ross , but less unkindly .
`` The finger would freeze off you .
Do n't be a goose . ''
`` It 's all right , '' persist Bertie .
`` I do n't need them -- much .
And William John do n't hardly ever get out . ''
He thrust them into her hand and run quickly down the street , a though he fear that the keen air might make him change his mind in spite of himself .
He have to stop a great many time that day to breathe on his purple hand .
Still , he do not regret have lent his mitten to William John -- poor , pale , sickly little William John , who have so few pleasure .
It be sunset when Bertie lay an armful of parcel down on the step of Doctor Forbes 's handsome house .
His back be turn towards the big bay window at one side , and he be busy try to warm his hand , so he do not see the two small face look at him through the frosty pane .
`` Just look at that poor little boy , Amy , '' say the taller of the two .
`` He be almost frozen , I believe .
Why do n't Caroline hurry and open the door ? ''
`` There she go now , '' say Amy .
`` Edie , could n't we coax her to let him come in and get warm ?
He look so cold . ''
And she draw her sister out into the hall , where the housekeeper be take Bertie 's parcel .
`` Caroline , '' whisper Edith timidly , `` please tell that poor little fellow to come in and get warm -- he look very cold . ''
`` He 's use to the cold , I warrant you , '' say the housekeeper rather impatiently .
`` It wo n't hurt him . ''
`` But it be Christmas week , '' say Edith gravely , `` and you know , Caroline , when Mamma be here she use to say that we ought to be particularly thoughtful of others who be not so happy or well-off a we be at this time . ''
Perhaps Edith 's reference to her mother softened Caroline , for she turn to Bertie and say cordially enough , `` Come in , and warm yourself before you go .
It 's a cold day . ''
Bertie shyly follow her to the kitchen .
`` Sit up to the fire , '' say Caroline , place a chair for him , while Edith and Amy come round to the other side of the stove and watch him with friendly interest .
`` What 's your name ? ''
ask Caroline .
`` Robert Ross , ma'am . ''
`` Oh , you 're Mrs. Ross 's nephew then , '' say Caroline , break egg into her cake-bowl , and whisk them deftly round .
`` And you 're Sampson 's errand boy just now ?
My goodness , '' a the boy spread his blue hand over the fire , `` where be your mitten , child ?
You 're never out without mitten a day like this ! ''
`` I lend them to William John -- he have n't any , '' falter Bertie .
He do not know but that the lady might consider it a grave crime to be mittenless .
`` No mitten ! ''
exclaim Amy in dismay .
`` Why , I have three pair .
And who be William John ? ''
`` He be my cousin , '' say Bertie .
`` And he 's awful sickly .
He want to go out to play , and he have n't any mitten , so I lend him mine .
I do n't miss them -- much . ''
`` What kind of a Christmas do you have ? ''
`` We do n't have any . ''
`` No Christmas ! ''
say Amy , quite overcome .
`` Oh , well , I suppose you be go to have a good time on New Year 's instead . ''
Bertie shake his head .
`` No 'm , I guess not .
We never have it different from other time . ''
Amy be silent from sheer amazement .
Edith understood better , and she change the subject .
`` Have you any brother or sister , Bertie ? ''
`` No 'm , '' return Bertie cheerfully .
`` I guess there 's enough of u without that .
I must be go now .
I 'm very much oblige to you . ''
Edith slip from the room a he speak , and meet him again at the door .
She hold out a pair of warm-looking mitten .
`` These be for William John , '' she say simply , `` so that you can have your own .
They be a pair of mine which be too big for me .
I know Papa will say it be all right .
Goodbye , Bertie . ''
`` Goodbye -- and thank you , '' stammer Bertie , a the door close .
Then he hasten home to William John .
That even Doctor Forbes notice a peculiarly thoughtful look on Edith 's face a she sit gaze into the glowing coal fire after dinner .
He lay his hand on her dark curl inquiringly .
`` What be you muse over ? ''
`` There be a little boy here today , '' begin Edith .
`` Oh , such a dear little boy , '' break in Amy eagerly from the corner , where she be play with her kitten .
`` His name be Bertie Ross .
He bring up the parcel , and we ask him in to get warm .
He have no mitten , and his hand be almost frozen .
And , oh , Papa , just think !
-- he say he never have any Christmas or New Year at all . ''
`` Poor little fellow ! ''
say the doctor .
`` I 've hear of him ; a pretty hard time he have of it , I think . ''
`` He be so pretty , Papa .
And Edie give him her blue mitten for William John . ''
`` The plot deepens .
Who be William John ? ''
`` Oh , a cousin or something , do n't he say Edie ?
Anyway , he be sick , and he want to go coasting , and Bertie give him his mitten .
And I suppose he never have any Christmas either . ''
`` There be plenty who have n't , '' say the doctor , take up his paper with a sigh .
`` Well , girlies , you seem interested in this little fellow so , if you like , you may invite him and his cousin to take dinner with you on New Year 's night . ''
`` Oh , Papa ! ''
say Edith , her eye shin like star .
The doctor laugh .
`` Write him a nice little note of invitation -- you be the lady of the house , you know -- and I 'll see that he get it tomorrow . ''
And this be how it come to pass that Bertie receive the next day his first invitation to dine out .
He read the little note through three time in order fully to take in it content , and then go around the rest of the day in deep abstraction a though he be try to decide some very important question .
It be with the same expression that he open the door at home in the evening .
His aunt be stir some oatmeal mush on the stove .
`` Is that you , Bert ? ''
She speak sharply .
She always speak sharply , even when not intend it ; it have grow to be a habit .
`` Yes 'm , '' say Bertie meekly , a he hang up his cap .
`` I s ` pose you 've only get one day more at the store , '' say Mrs. Ross .
`` Sampson do n't say anything about keep you long , do he ? ''
`` No .
He say he could n't -- I ask him . ''
`` Well , I do n't expect he would .
You 'll have a holiday on New Year 's anyhow ; whether you 'll have anything to eat or not be a different question . ''
`` I 've an invitation to dinner , '' say Bertie timidly , `` me and William John .
It 's from Doctor Forbes 's little girl -- the one that give me the mitten . ''
He hand her the little note , and Mrs. Ross stoop down and read it by the fitful gleam of light which come from the crack stove .
`` Well , you can please yourself , '' she say a she hand it back , `` but William John could n't go if he have ten invitation .
He catch cold coasting yesterday .
I tell him he would , but he be bound to go , and now he 's lay up for a week .
Listen to him bark in the bedroom there . ''
`` Well , then , I wo n't go either , '' say Bertie with a sigh , it might be of relief , or it might be of disappointment .
`` I would n't go there all alone . ''
`` You 're a goose ! ''
say his aunt .
`` They would n't eat you .
But a I say , please yourself .
Anyhow , hold your tongue about it to William John , or you 'll have him cry and bawl to go too . ''
The caution come too late .
William John have already hear it , and when his mother go in to rub his chest with liniment , she find him with the ragged quilt over his head cry .
`` Come , William John , I want to rub you . ''
`` I do n't want to be rub -- g ` way , '' sob William John .
`` I hear you out there -- you need n't think I do n't .
Bertie 's go to Doctor Forbes 's to dinner and I ca n't go . ''
`` Well , you 've only yourself to thank for it , '' return his mother .
`` If you have n't persist in go out coast yesterday when I want you to stay in , you 'd have be able to go to Doctor Forbes 's .
Little boy who wo n't do a they 're tell always get into trouble .
Stop cry , now .
I dare say if Bertie go they 'll send you some candy , or something . ''
But William John refuse to be comfort .
He cry himself to sleep that night , and when Bertie go in to see him next morning , he find him sit up in bed with his eye red and swollen and the faded quilt draw up around his pinched face .
`` Well , William John , how be you ? ''
`` I ai n't any good , '' reply William John mournfully .
`` I s ` pose you 'll have a great time tomorrow night , Bertie ? ''
`` Oh , I 'm not go since you ca n't , '' say Bertie cheerily .
He think this would comfort William John , but it have exactly the opposite effect .
William John have cry until he could cry no more , but he turn around and sob .
`` There now ! ''
he say in tearless despair .
`` That 's just what I expect .
I do s ` pose if I could n't go you would , and tell me about it .
You 're mean a mean can be . ''
`` Come now , William John , do n't be so cross .
I think you 'd rather have me home , but I 'll go , if you want me to . ''
`` Honest , now ? ''
`` Yes , honest .
I 'll go anywhere to please you .
I must be off to the store now .
Goodbye . ''
Thus commit , Bertie take his courage in both hand and go .
The next evening at dusk find him stand at Doctor Forbes 's door with a very violently beat heart .
He be carefully dress in his well-worn best suit and a neat white collar .
The frosty air have crimson his cheek and his hair be curl round his face .
Caroline open the door and show him into the parlour , where Edith and Amy be eagerly await him .
`` Happy New Year , Bertie , '' cry Amy .
`` And -- but , why , where be William John ? ''
`` He could n't come , '' answer Bertie anxiously -- he be afraid he might not be welcome without William John .
`` He 's real sick .
He catch cold and have to stay in bed ; but he want to come awful bad . ''
`` Oh , dear me !
Poor William John ! ''
say Amy in a disappointed tone .
But all far remark be cut short by the entrance of Doctor Forbes .
`` How do you do ? ''
he say , give Bertie 's hand a hearty shake .
`` But where be the other little fellow my girl be expect ? ''
Bertie patiently reaccounted for William John 's non-appearance .
`` It 's a bad time for cold , '' say the doctor , sit down and attack the fire .
`` I dare say , though , you have to run so fast these day that a cold could n't catch you .
I suppose you 'll soon be leave Sampson 's .
He tell me he do n't need you after the holiday season be over .
What be you go at next ?
Have you anything in view ? ''
Bertie shake his head sorrowfully .
`` No , sir ; but , '' he add more cheerfully , `` I guess I 'll find something if I hunt around lively .
I almost always do . ''
He forget his shyness ; his face flush hopefully , and he look straight at the doctor with his bright , earnest eye .
The doctor poke the fire energetically and look very wise .
But just then the girl come up and carry Bertie off to display their holiday gift .
And there be a fur cap and a pair of mitten for him !
He wonder whether he be dream .
`` And here 's a picture-book for William John , '' say Amy , `` and there be a sled out in the kitchen for him .
Oh , there 's the dinner-bell .
I 'm awfully hungry .
Papa say that be my ` normal condition , ' but I do n't know what that mean . ''
As for that dinner -- Bertie might sometimes have see such a repast in delightful dream , but certainly never out of them .
It be a feast to be date from .
When the plum pudding come on , the doctor , who have be notably silent , lean back in his chair , place his finger-tips together , and look critically at Bertie .
`` So Mr. Sampson ca n't keep you ? ''
Bertie 's face sober at once .
He have almost forget his responsibility .
`` No , sir .
He say I 'm too small for the heavy work . ''
`` Well , you be rather small -- but no doubt you will grow .
Boys have a queer habit of do that .
I think you know how to make yourself useful .
I need a boy here to run errand and look after my horse .
If you like , I 'll try you .
You can live here , and go to school .
I sometimes hear of place for boy in my round , and the first good one that will suit you , I 'll bespeak for you .
How will that do ? ''
`` Oh , sir , you be too good , '' say Bertie with a choke in his voice .
`` Well , that be settle , '' say the doctor genially .
`` Come on Monday then .
And perhaps we can do something for that other little chap , William , or John , or whatever his name be .
Will you have some more pudding , Bertie ? ''
`` No , thank you , '' say Bertie .
Pudding , indeed !
He could not have eat another mouthful after such wonderful and unexpected good fortune .
After dinner they play game , and crack nut , and roast apple , until the clock strike nine ; then Bertie get up to go .
`` Off , be you ? ''
say the doctor , look up from his paper .
`` Well , I 'll expect you on Monday , remember . ''
`` Yes , sir , '' say Bertie happily .
He be not likely to forget .
As he go out Amy come through the hall with a red sled .
`` Here be William John 's present .
I 've tie all the other thing on so that they ca n't fall off . ''
Edith be at the door-with a parcel .
`` Here be some nut and candy for William John , '' she say .
`` And tell him we all wish him a ` Happy New Year . ' ''
`` Thank you , '' say Bertie .
`` I 've have a splendid time .
I 'll tell William John .
Goodnight . ''
He step out .
It be frostier than ever .
The snow crackle and snap , the star be keen and bright , but to Bertie , run down the street with William John 's sled thumping merrily behind him , the world be aglow with rosy hope and promise .
He be quite sure he could never forget this wonderful New Year .
Between the Hill and the Valley It be one of the moist , pleasantly odorous night of early spring .
There be a chill in the evening air , but the grass be grow green in sheltered spot , and Jeffrey Miller have find purple-petalled violet and pink arbutus on the hill that day .
Across a valley fill with beech and fir , there be a sunset afterglow , creamy yellow and pale red , with a new moon swung above it .
It be a night for a man to walk alone and dream of his love , which be perhaps why Jeffrey Miller come so loiteringly across the springy hill pasture , with his hand full of the mayflower .
He be a tall , broad-shouldered man of forty , and look no young , with dark grey eye and a tanned , clean-cut face , clean-shaven save for a drooping moustache .
Jeffrey Miller be consider a handsome man , and Bayside people have periodical fit of wonder why he have never marry .
They pity him for the lonely life he must lead alone there at the Valley Farm , with only a deaf old housekeeper a a companion , for it do not occur to the Bayside people in general that a couple of shaggy dog could be call companion , and they do not know that book make very excellent comrade for people who know how to treat them .
One of Jeffrey 's dog be with him now -- the old one , with white breast and paw and a tawny coat .
He be so old that he be half-blind and rather deaf , but , with one exception , he be the dear of living creature to Jeffrey Miller , for Sara Stuart have give him the sprawly , chubby little pup year ago .
They come down the hill together .
A group of men be stand on the bridge in the hollow , discuss Colonel Stuart 's funeral of the day before .
Jeffrey catch Sara 's name and pause on the outskirt of the group to listen .
Sometimes he think that if he be lie dead under six foot of turf and Sara Stuart 's name be pronounce above him , his heart would give a bound of life .
`` Yes , the old kunnel 's go at last , '' Christopher Jackson be say .
`` He take his time dyin ' , that 's sartain .
Must be a kind of relief for Sara -- she 's have to wait on him , hand and foot , for year .
But no doubt she 'll feel pretty lonesome .
Wonder what she 'll do ? ''
`` Is there any particular reason for her to do anything ? ''
ask Alec Churchill .
`` Well , she 'll have to leave Pinehurst .
The estate 's entail and go to her cousin , Charles Stuart . ''
There be exclamation of surprise from the other men on hear this .
Jeffrey draw nearer , absently pat his dog 's head .
He have not know it either .
`` Oh , yes , '' say Christopher , enjoy all the importance of exclusive information .
`` I think everybody know that .
Pinehurst go to the old male heir .
The old kunnel felt it keen that he have n't a son .
Of course , there 's plenty of money and Sara 'll get that .
But I guess she 'll feel pretty bad at leave her old home .
Sara ai n't as young a she use to be , neither .
Let me see -- she must be thirty-eight .
Well , she 's left pretty lonesome . ''
`` Maybe she 'll stay on at Pinehurst , '' say Job Crowe .
`` It 'd only be right for her cousin to give her a home there . ''
Christopher shake his head .
`` No , I understand they 're not on very good term .
Sara do n't like Charles Stuart or his wife -- and I do n't blame her .
She wo n't stay there , not likely .
Probably she 'll go and live in town .
Strange she never marry .
She be reckon handsome , and have plenty of beau at one time . ''
Jeffrey swing out of the group and start homeward with his dog .
To stand by and hear Sara Stuart discuss after this fashion be more than he could endure .
The men idly watch his tall , erect figure a he go along the valley .
`` Queer chap , Jeff , '' say Alec Churchill reflectively .
`` Jeff 's all right , '' say Christopher in a patronizing way .
`` There ai n't a good man or neighbour alive .
I 've live next farm to him for thirty year , so I ought to know .
But he 's queer sartainly -- not like other people -- kind of unsociable .
He do n't care for a thing ` cept dog and reading and moon round wood and field .
That ai n't natural , you know .
But I must say he 's a good farmer .
He 's get the best farm in Bayside , and that 's a real nice house he put up on it .
Ai n't it an odd thing he never marry ?
Never seem to have no notion of it .
I ca n't recollect of Jeff Miller 's ever court anybody .
That 's another unnatural thing about him . ''
`` I 've always think that Jeff think himself a cut or two above the rest of u , '' say Tom Scovel with a sneer .
`` Maybe he think the Bayside girl ai n't good enough for him . ''
`` There ai n't no such dirty pride about Jeff , '' pronounce Christopher conclusively .
`` And the Millers be the best family hereabouts , leave the kunnel 's out .
And Jeff 's well off -- nobody know how well , I reckon , but I can guess , be his land neighbour .
Jeff ai n't no fool nor loafer , if he be a bit queer . ''
Meanwhile , the object of these remark be stride homeward and thinking , not of the men behind him , but of Sara Stuart .
He must go to her at once .
He have not intrude on her since her father 's death , think her sorrow too great for him to meddle with .
But this be different .
Perhaps she need the advice or assistance only he could give .
To whom else in Bayside could she turn for it but to him , her old friend ?
Was it possible that she must leave Pinehurst ?
The thought struck cold dismay to his soul .
How could he bear his life if she go away ?
He have love Sara Stuart from childhood .
He remember vividly the day he have first see her -- a spring day , much like this one have be ; he , a boy of eight , have go with his father to the big , sunshiny hill field and he have search for bird ' nest in the little fir copse along the crest while his father plowed .
He have so come upon her , sit on the fence under the pine at the back of Pinehurst -- a child of six in a dress of purple cloth .
Her long , light brown curl fell over her shoulder and ripple sleekly back from her calm little brow ; her eye be large and greyish blue , straight-gazing and steadfast .
To the end of his life the boy be to carry in his heart the picture she make there under the pine .
`` Little boy , '' she have say , with a friendly smile , `` will you show me where the mayflower grow ? ''
Shyly enough he have assent , and they set out together for the barren beyond the field , where the arbutus trail it star of sweetness under the dusty dead grass and wither leaf of the old year .
The boy be thrill with delight .
She be a fairy queen who thus graciously smile on him and chatter blithely a they search for mayflower in the fresh spring sunshine .
He think it a wonderful thing that it have so chance .
It overjoy him to give the choice duster he find into her slim , waxen little finger , and watch her eye grow round with pleasure in them .
When the sun begin to lower over the beech she have go home with her arm full of arbutus , but she have turn at the edge of the pineland and wave her hand at him .
That night , when he tell his mother of the little girl he have meet on the hill , she have hop anxiously that he have be `` very polite , '' for the little girl be a daughter of Colonel Stuart , newly come to Pinehurst .
Jeffrey , reflect , have not be certain that he have be polite ; `` But I be sure she like me , '' he say gravely .
A few day later a message come from Mrs. Stuart on the hill to Mrs. Miller in the valley .
Would she let her little boy go up now and then to play with Sara ?
Sara be very lonely because she have no playmate .
So Jeff , overjoy , have go to his divinity 's very home , where the two child play together many a day .
All through their childhood they have be fast friend .
Sara 's parent place no bar to their intimacy .
They have soon conclude that little Jeff Miller be a very good playmate for Sara .
He be gentle , well-behaved , and manly .
Sara never go to the district school which Jeff attend ; she have her governess at home .
With no other boy or girl in Bayside do she form any friendship , but her loyalty to Jeff never waver .
As for Jeff , he worship her and would have do anything she command .
He belong to her from the day they have hunt arbutus on the hill .
When Sara be fifteen she have go away to school .
Jeff have miss her sorely .
For four year he saw her only in the summer , and each year she have seem taller , stately , far from him .
When she graduate her father take her abroad for two year ; then she come home , a lovely , high-bred girl , dimple on the threshold of womanhood ; and Jeffrey Miller be face to face with two bitter fact .
One be that he love her -- not with the boy-and-girl love of long ago , but with the love of a man for the one woman in the world ; and the other be that she be a far beyond his reach a one of those sunset star of which she have always remind him in her pure , clear-shining loveliness .
He look these fact unflinchingly in the face until he have grow use to them , and then he lay down his course for himself .
He love Sara -- and he do not wish to conquer his love , even if it have be possible .
It be good to love her , whom he could never win , than to love and be love by any other woman .
His great office in life be to be her friend , humble and unexpectant ; to be at hand if she should need him for ever so trifle a service ; never to presume , always to be faithful .
Sara have not forget her old friend .
But their former comradeship be now impossible ; they could be friend , but never again companion .
Sara 's life be full and gay ; she have interest in which he have no share ; her social world be utterly apart from his ; she be of the hill and it tradition , he be of the valley and it people .
The democracy of childhood past , there be no common ground on which they might meet .
Only one thing Jeffrey have find it impossible to contemplate calmly .
Some day Sara would marry -- a man who be her equal , who sit at her father 's table a a guest .
In spite of himself , Jeffrey 's heart fill with hot rebellion at the thought ; it be like a desecration and a robbery .
But , a the year go by , this thing he dread do not happen .
Sara do not marry , although gossip assign her many suitor not unworthy of her .
She and Jeffrey be always friend , although they meet but seldom .
Sometimes she send him a book ; it be his custom to search for the early mayflower and take them to her ; once in a long while they meet and talk of many thing .
Jeffrey 's calendar from year to year be red-lettered by these small happening , of which nobody know , or , knowing , would have care .
So he and Sara drift out of youth , together yet apart .
Her mother have die , and Sara be the gracious , stately mistress of Pinehurst , which grow quieter a the time go on ; the lover cease to come , and holiday friend grow few ; with the old colonel 's fail health the gaiety and lavish entertaining cease .
Jeffrey think that Sara must often be lonely , but she never say so ; she remain sweet , serene , calm-eyed , like the child he have meet on the hill .
Only , now and then , Jeffrey fancy he saw a shadow on her face -- a shadow so faint and fleeting that only the eye of an unselfish , abide love , make clear-sighted by patient year , could have see it .
It hurt him , that shadow ; he would have give anything in his power to have banish it .
And now this long friendship be to be break .
Sara be go away .
At first he have think only of her pain , but now his own fill his heart .
How could he live without her ?
How could he dwell in the valley knowing that she have go from the hill ?
Never to see her light shine down on him through the northern gap in the pine at night !
Never to feel that perhaps her eye rest on him now and then a he go about his work in the valley field !
Never to stoop with a glad thrill over the first spring flower because it be his privilege to take them to her !
Jeffrey groan aloud .
No , he could not go up to see her that night ; he must wait -- he must strengthen himself .
Then his heart rebuke him .
This be selfishness ; this be put his own feeling before hers -- a thing he have swear never to do .
Perhaps she need him -- perhaps she have wonder why he have not come to offer her such poor service a might be in his power .
He turn and go down through the orchard lane , take the old field-path across the valley and up the hill , which he have traverse so often and so joyfully in boyhood .
It be dark now , and a few star be shin in the silvery sky .
The wind sigh among the pine a he walk under them .
Sometimes he felt that he must turn back -- that his pain be go to master him ; then he force himself to go on .
The old grey house where Sara live seem bleak and stricken in the dull light , with it leafless vine cling to it .
There be no light in it .
It look like a home left soulless .
Jeffrey go around to the garden door and knock .
He have expect the maid to open it , put Sara herself come .
`` Why , Jeff , '' she say , with pleasure in her tone .
`` I be so glad to see you .
I have be wonder why you have not come before . ''
`` I do not think you would want to see me yet , '' he say hurriedly .
`` I have think about you every hour -- but I fear to intrude . '' ''
You could n't intrude , '' she say gently .
`` Yes , I have want to see you , Jeff .
Come into the library . ''
He follow her into the room where they have always sit in his rare call .
Sara light the lamp on the table .
As the light shot up she stand clearly reveal in it -- a tall , slender woman in a trail gown of grey .
Even a stranger , not know her age , would have guess it to be what it be , yet it would have be hard to say what give the impression of maturity .
Her face be quite unlined -- a little pale , perhaps , with more finely cut outline than those of youth .
Her eye be clear and bright ; her abundant brown hair wave back from her face in the same curve that Jeffrey have note in the purple-gowned child of six , under the pine .
Perhaps it be the fine patience and serenity in her face that tell her tale of year .
Youth can never acquire it .
Her eye brighten when she saw the mayflower he carry .
She come and take them from him , and her hand touch his , send a little thrill of joy through him .
`` How lovely they be !
And the first I have see this spring .
You always bring me the first , do n't you , Jeff ?
Do you remember the first day we spend pick mayflower together ? ''
Jeff smile .
Could he forget ?
But something hold him back from speech .
Sara put the flower in a vase on the table , but slip one starry pink cluster into the lace on her breast .
She come and sit down beside Jeffrey ; he saw that her beautiful eye have be weep , and that there be line of pain around her lip .
Some impulse that would not be deny make him lean over and take her hand .
She leave it unresistingly in his clasp .
`` I be very lonely now , Jeff , '' she say sadly .
`` Father have go .
I have no friend leave . ''
`` You have me , '' say Jeffrey quietly .
`` Yes .
I should n't have say that .
You be my friend , I know , Jeff .
But , but -- I must leave Pinehurst , you know . ''
`` I learn that tonight for the first time , '' he answer .
`` Did you ever come to a place where everything seem end -- where it seem that there be nothing -- simply nothing -- leave , Jeff ? ''
she say wistfully .
`` But , no , it could n't seem so to a man .
Only a woman could fully understand what I mean .
That be how I feel now .
While I have Father to live for it be n't so hard .
But now there be nothing .
And I must go away . ''
`` Is there anything I can do ? ''
mutter Jeffrey miserably .
He know now that he have make a mistake in come tonight ; he could not help her .
His own pain have unman him .
Presently he would say something foolish or selfish in spite of himself .
Sara turn her eye on him .
`` There be nothing anybody can do , Jeff , '' she say piteously .
Her eye , those clear child-eyes , fill with tear .
`` I shall be braver -- strong -- after a while .
But just now I have no strength leave .
I feel like a lost , helpless child .
Oh , Jeff ! ''
She put her slender hand over her face and sobbed .
Every sob cut Jeffrey to the heart .
`` Do n't -- do n't , Sara , '' he say huskily .
`` I ca n't bear to see you suffer so .
I 'd die for you if it would do you any good .
I love you -- I love you !
I never mean to tell you so , but it be the truth .
I ought n't to tell you now .
Do n't think that I 'm try to take any advantage of your loneliness and sorrow .
I know -- I have always know -- that you be far above me .
But that could n't prevent my loving you -- just humbly love you , ask nothing else .
You may be angry with my presumption , but I ca n't help tell you that I love you .
That 's all .
I just want you to know it . ''
Sara have turn away her head .
Jeffrey be overcome with contrition .
Ah , he have no business to speak so -- he have spoil the devotion of year .
Who be he that he should have dare to love her ?
Silence alone have justify his love , and now he have lose that justification .
She would despise him .
He have forfeit her friendship for ever .
`` Are you angry , Sara ? ''
he question sadly , after a silence .
`` I think I be , '' say Sara .
She keep her stately head avert .
`` If -- if you have love me , Jeff , why do you never tell me so before ? ''
`` How could I dare ? ''
he say gravely .
`` I know I could never win you -- that I have no right to dream of you so .
Oh , Sara , do n't be angry !
My love have be reverent and humble .
I have ask nothing .
I ask nothing now but your friendship .
Do n't take that from me , Sara .
Do n't be angry with me . ''
`` I be angry , '' repeat Sara , `` and I think I have a right to be . ''
`` Perhaps so , '' he say simply , `` but not because I have love you .
Such love a mine ought to anger no woman , Sara .
But you have a right to be angry with me for presume to put it into word .
I should not have do so -- but I could not help it .
It rush to my lip in spite of me .
Forgive me . ''
`` I do n't know whether I can forgive you for not tell me before , '' say Sara steadily . ''
That be what I have to forgive -- not your speaking at last , even if it be drag from you against your will .
Did you think I would make you such a very poor wife , Jeff , that you would not ask me to marry you ? ''
`` Sara ! ''
he say , aghast .
`` I -- I -- you be a far above me a a star in the sky -- I never dream -- I never hop -- '' `` That I could care for you ? ''
say Sara , look round at last .
`` Then you be more modest than a man ought to be , Jeff .
I do not know that you love me , or I should have find some way to make you speak out long ago .
I should not have let you waste all these year .
I 've love you -- ever since we pick mayflower on the hill , I think -- ever since I come home from school , I know .
I never care for anyone else -- although I try to , when I think you do n't care for me .
It matter nothing to me that the world may have think there be some social difference between u .
There , Jeff , you can not accuse me of not make my meaning plain . ''
`` Sara , '' he whisper , wonder , bewilder , half-afraid to believe this unbelievable joy .
`` I 'm not half worthy of you -- but -- but '' -- he bend forward and put his arm around her , look straight into her clear , unshrinking eye .
`` Sara , will you be my wife ? ''
`` Yes . ''
She say the word clearly and truly .
`` And I will think myself a proud and happy and honour woman to be so , Jeff .
Oh , I do n't shrink from tell you the truth , you see .
You mean too much to me for me to dissemble it .
I 've hide it for eighteen year because I do n't think you want to hear it , but I 'll give myself the delight of say it frankly now . ''
She lift her delicate , high-bred face , fearless love shining in every lineament , to his , and they exchange their first kiss .
Clorinda 's Gifts `` It be a dreadful thing to be poor a fortnight before Christmas , '' say Clorinda , with the mournful sigh of seventeen year .
Aunt Emmy smile .
Aunt Emmy be sixty , and spend the hour she do n't spend in a bed , on a sofa or in a wheel chair ; but Aunt Emmy be never hear to sigh .
`` I suppose it be bad then than at any other time , '' she admit .
That be one of the nice thing about Aunt Emmy .
She always sympathize and understood .
`` I 'm bad than poor this Christmas ... I 'm stony broke , '' say Clorinda dolefully .
`` My spell of fever in the summer and the consequent doctor 's bill have clean out my coffer completely .
Not a single Christmas present can I give .
And I do so want to give some little thing to each of my dear people .
But I simply ca n't afford it ... that 's the hateful , ugly truth . ''
Clorinda sigh again .
`` The gift which money can purchase be not the only one we can give , '' say Aunt Emmy gently , `` nor the best , either . ''
`` Oh , I know it 's nice to give something of your own work , '' agree Clorinda , `` but material for fancy work cost too .
That kind of gift be just as much out of the question for me a any other . ''
`` That be not what I mean , '' say Aunt Emmy .
`` What do you mean , then ? ''
ask Clorinda , look puzzle .
Aunt Emmy smile .
`` Suppose you think out my meaning for yourself , '' she say .
`` That would be good than if I explain it .
Besides , I do n't think I could explain it .
Take the beautiful line of a beautiful poem to help you in your think out : ` The gift without the giver be bare . ' ''
`` I 'd put it the other way and say , ` The giver without the gift be bare , ' '' say Clorinda , with a grimace .
`` That be my predicament exactly .
Well , I hope by next Christmas I 'll not be quite bankrupt .
I 'm go into Mr. Callender 's store down at Murraybridge in February .
He have offer me the place , you know . ''
`` Wo n't your aunt miss you terribly ? ''
say Aunt Emmy gravely .
Clorinda flush .
There be a note in Aunt Emmy 's voice that disturb her .
`` Oh , yes , I suppose she will , '' she answer hurriedly .
`` But she 'll get use to it very soon .
And I will be home every Saturday night , you know .
I 'm dreadfully tire of be poor , Aunt Emmy , and now that I have a chance to earn something for myself I mean to take it .
I can help Aunt Mary , too .
I 'm to get four dollar a week . ''
`` I think she would rather have your companionship than a part of your salary , Clorinda , '' say Aunt Emmy .
`` But of course you must decide for yourself , dear .
It be hard to be poor .
I know it .
I be poor . ''
`` You poor ! ''
say Clorinda , kiss her .
`` Why , you be the rich woman I know , Aunt Emmy -- rich in love and goodness and contentment . ''
`` And so be you , dearie ... rich in youth and health and happiness and ambition .
Are n't they all worth while ? ''
`` Of course they be , '' laugh Clorinda .
`` Only , unfortunately , Christmas gift ca n't be coin out of them . ''
`` Did you ever try ? ''
ask Aunt Emmy .
`` Think out that question , too , in your think out , Clorinda . ''
`` Well , I must say bye-bye and run home .
I feel cheer up -- you always cheer people up , Aunt Emmy .
How grey it be outdoors .
I do hope we 'll have snow soon .
Would n't it be jolly to have a white Christmas ?
We always have such fade brown Decembers . ''
Clorinda live just across the road from Aunt Emmy in a tiny white house behind some huge willow .
But Aunt Mary live there too -- the only relative Clorinda have , for Aunt Emmy be n't really her aunt at all .
Clorinda have always live with Aunt Mary ever since she could remember .
Clorinda go home and upstairs to her little room under the eaves , where the great bare willow bough be branch athwart her window .
She be think over what Aunt Emmy have say about Christmas gift and give .
`` I 'm sure I do n't know what she could have mean , '' ponder Clorinda .
`` I do wish I could find out if it would help me any .
I 'd love to remember a few of my friend at least .
There 's Miss Mitchell ... she 's be so good to me all this year and help me so much with my study .
And there 's Mrs. Martin out in Manitoba .
If I could only send her something !
She must be so lonely out there .
And Aunt Emmy herself , of course ; and poor old Aunt Kitty down the lane ; and Aunt Mary and , yes -- Florence too , although she do treat me so meanly .
I shall never feel the same to her again .
But she give me a present last Christmas , and so out of mere politeness I ought to give her something . ''
Clorinda stop short suddenly .
She have just remember that she would not have like to say that last sentence to Aunt Emmy .
Therefore , there be something wrong about it .
Clorinda have long ago learn that there be sure to be something wrong in anything that could not be say to Aunt Emmy .
So she stop to think it over .
Clorinda puzzle over Aunt Emmy 's meaning for four day and part of three night .
Then all at once it come to her .
Or if it be n't Aunt Emmy 's meaning it be a very good meaning in itself , and it grow clear and expand in mean during the day that follow , although at first Clorinda shrink a little from some of the conclusion to which it lead her .
`` I 've solve the problem of my Christmas give for this year , '' she tell Aunt Emmy .
`` I have some thing to give after all .
Some of them quite costly , too ; that be , they will cost me something , but I know I 'll be good off and richer after I 've pay the price .
That be what Mr. Grierson would call a paradox , be n't it ?
I 'll explain all about it to you on Christmas Day . ''
On Christmas Day , Clorinda go over to Aunt Emmy 's .
It be a faded brown Christmas after all , for the snow have not come .
But Clorinda do not mind ; there be such joy in her heart that she think it the most delightful Christmas Day that ever dawn .
She put the queer cornery armful she carry down on the kitchen floor before she go into the sit room .
Aunt Emmy be lie on the sofa before the fire , and Clorinda sit down beside her .
`` I 've come to tell you all about it , '' she say .
Aunt Emmy pat the hand that be in her own .
`` From your face , dear girl , it will be pleasant hearing and telling , '' she say .
Clorinda nod .
`` Aunt Emmy , I think for day over your meaning ... think until I be dizzy .
And then one even it just come to me , without any thinking at all , and I know that I could give some gift after all .
I think of something new every day for a week .
At first I do n't think I could give some of them , and then I think how selfish I be .
I would have be willing to pay any amount of money for gift if I have have it , but I be n't willing to pay what I have .
I get over that , though , Aunt Emmy .
Now I 'm go to tell you what I do give .
`` First , there be my teacher , Miss Mitchell .
I give her one of father 's book .
I have so many of his , you know , so that I would n't miss one ; but still it be one I love very much , and so I felt that that love make it worth while .
That be , I felt that on second thought .
At first , Aunt Emmy , I think I would be ashamed to offer Miss Mitchell a shabby old book , wear with much reading and all mark over with father 's note and pencillings .
I be afraid she would think it queer of me to give her such a present .
And yet somehow it seem to me that it be well than something brand new and unmellowed -- that old book which father have love and which I love .
So I give it to her , and she understand .
I think it please her so much , the real meaning in it .
She say it be like be give something out of another 's heart and life .
`` Then you know Mrs. Martin ... last year she be Miss Hope , my dear Sunday School teacher .
She marry a home missionary , and they be in a lonely part of the west .
Well , I write her a letter .
Not just an ordinary letter ; dear me , no .
I take a whole day to write it , and you should have see the postmistress 's eye stick out when I mail it .
I just tell her everything that have happen in Greenvale since she go away .
I make it a newsy and cheerful and loving a I possibly could .
Everything bright and funny I could think of go into it .
`` The next be old Aunt Kitty .
You know she be my nurse when I be a baby , and she 's very fond of me .
But , well , you know , Aunt Emmy , I 'm ashamed to confess it , but really I 've never find Aunt Kitty very entertaining , to put it mildly .
She be always glad when I go to see her , but I 've never go except when I could n't help it .
She be very deaf , and rather dull and stupid , you know .
Well , I give her a whole day .
I take my knitting yesterday , and sit with her the whole time and just talk and talk .
I tell her all the Greenvale news and gossip and everything else I think she 'd like to hear .
She be so pleased and proud ; she tell me when I come away that she have n't have such a nice time for year .
`` Then there be ... Florence .
You know , Aunt Emmy , we be always intimate friend until last year .
Then Florence once tell Rose Watson something I have tell her in confidence .
I find it out and I be so hurt .
I could n't forgive Florence , and I tell her plainly I could never be a real friend to her again .
Florence felt badly , because she really do love me , and she ask me to forgive her , but it seem a if I could n't .
Well , Aunt Emmy , that be my Christmas gift to her ... my forgiveness .
I go down last night and just put my arm around her and tell her that I love her as much a ever and want to be real close friend again .
`` I give Aunt Mary her gift this morning .
I tell her I be n't go to Murraybridge , that I just mean to stay home with her .
She be so glad -- and I 'm glad , too , now that I 've decide so . ''
`` Your gift have be real gift , Clorinda , '' say Aunt Emmy .
`` Something of you -- the best of you -- go into each of them . ''
Clorinda go out and bring her cornery armful in .
`` I do n't forget you , Aunt Emmy , '' she say , a she unpin the paper .
There be a rosebush -- Clorinda 's own pet rosebush -- all snow over with fragrant blossom .
Aunt Emmy love flower .
She put her finger under one of the rose and kiss it .
`` It 's as sweet a yourself , dear child , '' she say tenderly .
`` And it will be a joy to me all through the lonely winter day .
You 've find out the best meaning of Christmas give , have n't you , dear ? ''
`` Yes , thanks to you , Aunt Emmy , '' say Clorinda softly .
Cyrilla 's Inspiration It be a rainy Saturday afternoon and all the boarder at Mrs. Plunkett 's be feel dull and stupid , especially the Normal School girl on the third floor , Cyrilla Blair and Carol Hart and Mary Newton , who be know a The Trio , and share the big front room together .
They be sit in that front room , scowl out at the weather .
At least , Carol and Mary be scowl .
Cyrilla never scowl ; she be sit curl up on her bed with her Greek grammar , and she smile at the rain and her grumbling chum as cheerfully a possible .
`` For pity 's sake , Cyrilla , put that grammar away , '' moan Mary .
`` There be something positively uncanny about a girl who can study Greek on Saturday afternoon -- at least , this early in the term . ''
`` I 'm not really study , '' say Cyrilla , toss the book away .
`` I 'm only pretend to .
I 'm really just a bore and lonesome a you be .
But what else be there to do ?
We ca n't stir outside the door ; we 've nothing to read ; we ca n't make candy since Mrs. Plunkett have forbid u to use the oil stove in our room ; we 'll probably quarrel all round if we sit here in idleness ; so I 've be try to brush up my Greek verb by way of keep out of mischief .
Have you any good employment to offer me ? ''
`` If it be only a mild drizzle we might go around and see the Patterson girl , '' sigh Carol .
`` But there be no venture out in such a downpour .
Cyrilla , you be suppose to be the brainy one of u .
Prove your claim to such pre-eminence by thinking of some brand-new amusement , especially suit to rainy afternoon .
That will be put your grey matter to good use than squander it on Greek verb out of study limit . ''
`` If only I 'd get a letter from home today , '' say Mary , who seem determine to persist in gloom .
`` I would n't mind the weather .
Letters be such cheery thing : -- especially the letter my sister writes .
They 're so full of fun and nice little news .
The reading of one cheer me up for the day .
Cyrilla Blair , what be the matter ?
You nearly frighten me to death ! ''
Cyrilla have bound from her bed to the centre of the floor , wave her Greek grammar wildly in the air .
`` Girls , I have an inspiration ! ''
she exclaim .
`` Good !
Let 's hear it , '' say Carol .
`` Let 's write letter -- rainy-day letter -- to everyone in the house , '' say Cyrilla .
`` You may depend all the rest of the folk under Mrs. Plunkett 's hospitable roof be feel more or less blue and lonely too , as well a ourselves .
Let 's write them the jolliest , nice letter we can compose and get Nora Jane to take them to their room .
There 's that pale little sew girl , I do n't believe she ever get letter from anybody , and Miss Marshall , I 'm sure she do n't , and poor old Mrs. Johnson , whose only son die last month , and the new music teacher who come yesterday , a letter of welcome to her -- and old Mr. Grant , yes , and Mrs. Plunkett too , thank her for all her kindness to u .
You know she have be awfully nice to u in spite of the oil stove ukase .
That 's six -- two apiece .
Let 's do it , girl . ''
Cyrilla 's sudden enthusiasm for her plan infect the others .
`` It 's a nice idea , '' say Mary , brighten up .
`` But who 's to write to whom ?
I 'm willing to take anybody but Miss Marshall .
I could n't write a line to her to save my life .
She 'd be horrify at anything funny or jokey and our letter will have to be mainly nonsense -- nonsense of the best brand , to be sure , but still nonsense . ''
`` Better leave Miss Marshall out , '' suggest Carol .
`` You know she disapprove of u anyhow .
She 'd probably resent a letter of the sort , think we be try to play some kind of joke on her . ''
`` It would never do to leave her out , '' say Cyrilla decisively .
`` Of course , she 's a bit queer and unamiable , but , girl , think of thirty year of boarding-house life , even with the best of Plunketts .
Would n't that sour anybody ?
You know it would .
You 'd be cranky and grumbly and disagreeable too , I dare say .
I 'm really sorry for Miss Marshall .
She 's have a very hard life .
Mrs. Plunkett tell me all about her one day .
I do n't think we should mind her bite little speech and sharp look .
And anyway , even if she be really as disagreeable a she sometimes seem to be , why , it must make it all the harder for her , do n't you think ?
So she need a letter most of all .
I 'll write to her , since it 's my suggestion .
We 'll draw lot for the others . ''
Besides Miss Marshall , the new music teacher fell to Cyrilla 's share .
Mary draw Mrs. Plunkett and the dressmaker , and Carol draw Mrs. Johnson and old Mr. Grant .
For the next two hour the girl write busily , forget all about the rainy day , and enjoy their epistolary labour to the full .
It be dusk when all the letter be finish .
`` Why , have n't the afternoon go quickly after all ! ''
exclaim Carol .
`` I just let my pen run on and jot down any good working idea that come into my head .
Cyrilla Blair , that big fat letter be never for Miss Marshall !
What on earth do you find to write her ? ''
`` It be n't so hard when I get fairly start , '' say Cyrilla , smile .
`` Now , let 's hunt up Nora Jane and send the letter around so that everybody can read his or hers before tea-time .
We should have a choice assortment of smile at the table instead of all those frown and sigh we have at dinner . ''
Miss Emily Marshall be at that moment sit in her little back room , all alone in the dusk , with the rain splash drearily against the windowpane outside .
Miss Marshall be feel a lonely and dreary a she look -- and a she have often felt in her life of sixty year .
She tell herself bitterly that she have n't a friend in the world -- not even one who care enough for her to come and see her or write her a letter now and then .
She think her boarding-house acquaintance dislike her and she resent their dislike , without admit to herself that her ungracious way be responsible for it .
She smile sourly when little ripple of laughter come faintly down the hall from the front room where The Trio be write their letter and laugh over the fun they be put into them .
`` If they be old and lonesome and friendless they would n't see much in life to laugh at , I guess , '' say Miss Marshall bitterly , draw her shawl closer about her sharp shoulder .
`` They never think of anything but themselves and if a day pass that they do n't have ` some fun ' they think it 's a fearful thing to put up with .
I 'm sick and tire of their giggling and whispering . ''
In the midst of these amiable reflection Miss Marshall hear a knock at her door .
When she open it there stand Nora Jane , her broad red face beam with smile .
`` Please , Miss , here 's a letter for you , '' she say .
`` A letter for me ! ''
Miss Marshall shut her door and star at the fat envelope in amazement .
Who could have write it ?
The postman come only in the morning .
Was it some joke , perhaps ?
Those giggle girl ?
Miss Marshall 's face grow hard a she light her lamp and open the letter suspiciously .
`` Dear Miss Marshall , '' it run in Cyrilla 's pretty girlish writing , `` we girl be so lonesome and dull that we have decide to write rainy-day letter to everybody in the house just to cheer ourselves up .
So I 'm go to write to you just a letter of friendly nonsense . ''
Pages of `` nonsense '' follow , and very delightful nonsense it be , for Cyrilla possess the happy gift of bright and easy letter-writing .
She comment wittily on all the amuse episode of the boarding-house life for the past month ; she describe a cat-fight she have witness from her window that morning and illustrate it by a pen-and-ink sketch of the belligerent feline ; she describe a lovely new dress her mother have send her from home and tell all about the class party to which she have wear it ; she give an account of her vacation camp trip to the mountain and paste on one page a number of small snapshot take during the outing ; she copy a joke she have read in the paper that morning and discuss the serial story in the boarding-house magazine which all the boarder be read ; she write out the direction for a new crocheted tidy her sister have make -- Miss Marshall have a mania for crochet ; and she finally wind up with `` all the good will and good wish that Nora Jane will consent to carry from your friend , Cyrilla Blair . ''
Before Miss Marshall have finish reading that letter she have cry three time and laugh time past counting .
More tear come at the end -- happy , tender tear such a Miss Marshall have not shed for year .
Something warm and sweet and gentle seem to thrill to life within her heart .
So those girl be not such selfish , heedless young creature a she have suppose !
How kind it have be in Cyrilla Blair to think of her and write so to her .
She no longer felt lonely and neglect .
Her whole sombre world have be brighten to sunshine by that merry friendly letter .
Mrs. Plunkett 's table be surround by a ring of smile face that night .
Everybody seem in good spirit in spite of the weather .
The pale little dressmaker , who have hardly utter a word since her arrival a week before , talk and laugh quite merrily and girlishly , thank Cyrilla unreservedly for her `` jolly letter . ''
Old Mr. Grant do not grumble once about the rain or the food or his rheumatism and he tell Carol that she might be a good letter writer in time if she look after her grammar more carefully -- which , from Mr. Grant , be high praise .
All the others declare that they be delight with their letter -- all except Miss Marshall .
She say nothing but later on , when Cyrilla be go upstairs , she meet Miss Marshall in the shadow of the second landing .
`` My dear , '' say Miss Marshall gently , `` I want to thank you for your letter , I do n't think you can realize just what it have mean to me .
I be so -- so lonely and tired and discourage .
It hearten me right up .
I -- I know you have think me a cross and disagreeable person .
I 'm afraid I have be , too .
But -- but -- I shall try to be less so in future .
If I ca n't succeed all at once do n't mind me because , under it all , I shall always be your friend .
And I mean to keep your letter and read it over every time I feel myself get bitter and hard again . ''
`` Dear Miss Marshall , I 'm so glad you like it , '' say Cyrilla frankly .
`` We 're all your friend and would be glad to be chummy with you .
Only we think perhaps we bother you with our nonsense . ''
`` Come and see me sometimes , '' say Miss Marshall with a smile .
`` I 'll try to be ` chummy ' -- perhaps I 'm not yet too old to learn the secret of friendliness .
Your letter have make me think that I have miss much in shut all young life out from mine a I have do .
I want to reform in this respect if I can . ''
When Cyrilla reach the front room she find Mrs. Plunkett there .
`` I 've just drop in , Miss Blair , '' say that worthy woman , `` to say that I dunno a I mind your make candy once in a while if you want to .
Only do be careful not to set the place on fire .
Please be particularly careful not to set it on fire . ''
`` We 'll try , '' promise Cyrilla with dance eye .
When the door close behind Mrs. Plunkett the three girl look at each other .
`` Cyrilla , that idea of yours be a really truly inspiration , '' say Carol solemnly .
`` I believe it be , '' say Cyrilla , thinking of Miss Marshall .
Dorinda 's Desperate Deed Dorinda have be home for a whole wonderful week and the little Pages be begin to feel acquainted with her .
When a girl go away when she be ten and do n't come back until she be fifteen , it be only to be expect that her family should regard her a somewhat of a stranger , especially when she be really a Page , and they be really all Carters except for the name .
Dorinda have be only ten when her Aunt Mary -- on the Carter side -- have write to Mrs . Page , ask her to let Dorinda come to her for the winter .
Mrs . Page , albeit she be poor -- nobody but herself know how poor -- and a widow with five child besides Dorinda , hesitate at first .
She be afraid , with good reason , that the winter might stretch into other season ; but Mary have lose her own only little girl in the summer , and Mrs . Page shudder at the thought of what her loneliness must be .
So , to comfort her , Mrs . Page have let Dorinda go , stipulate that she must come home in the spring .
In the spring , when Dorinda 's bed of violet be grow purple under the lilac bush , Aunt Mary write again .
Dorinda be content and happy , she say .
Would not Emily let her stay for the summer ?
Mrs . Page cry bitterly over that letter and take sad counsel with herself .
To let Dorinda stay with her aunt for the summer really meant , she know , to let her stay altogether .
Mrs . Page be find it hard and hard to get along ; there be so little and the child need so much ; Dorinda would have a good home with her Aunt Mary if she could only prevail on her rebellious mother heart to give her up .
In the end she agree to let Dorinda stay for the summer -- and Dorinda have never be home since .
But now Dorinda have come back to the little white house on the hill at Willowdale , set back from the road in a smother of apple tree and vine .
Aunt Mary have die very suddenly and her only son , Dorinda 's cousin , have go to Japan .
There be nothing for Dorinda to do save to come home , to enter again into her old unfilled place in her mother 's heart , and win a new place in the heart of the brother and sister who barely remember her at all .
Leicester have be nine and Jean seven when Dorinda go away ; now they be respectively fourteen and twelve .
At first they be a little shy with this big , practically brand-new sister , but this soon wore off .
Nobody could be shy long with Dorinda ; nobody could help like her .
She be so brisk and jolly and sympathetic -- a real Page , so everybody say -- while the brother and sister be Carter to their marrow ; Carters with fair hair and blue eye , and small , fine , wistful feature ; but Dorinda have merry black eye , plump , dusky-red cheek , and a long braid of glossy dark hair , which be perpetually be twitch from one shoulder to another a Dorinda whisk about the house on domestic duty intent .
In a week Dorinda felt herself one of the family again , with all the care and responsibility thereof rest on her strong young shoulder .
Dorinda and her mother talk matter out fully one afternoon over their sewing , in the sunny south room where the wind get lose among the vine halfway through the open window .
Mrs . Page sighed and say she really do not know what to do .
Dorinda do not sigh ; she do not know just what to do either , but there must be something that could be do -- there be always something that can be do , if one can only find it .
Dorinda sew hard and purse up her red lip determinedly .
`` Do n't you worry , Mother Page , '' she say briskly .
`` We 'll be like that glorious old Roman who find a way or make it .
I like overcome difficulty .
I 've lot of old Admiral Page 's fight blood in me , you know .
The first step be to tabulate just exactly what difficulties among our many difficulty must be ravel out first -- the capital difficulty , a it be .
Most important of all come -- '' `` Leicester , '' say Mrs . Page .
Dorinda wink her eye a she always do when she be doubtful .
`` Well , I know he be one of them , but I be n't go to put him the very first .
However , we will .
Leicester 's case stand thus .
He be a pretty smart boy -- if he be n't my brother , I 'd say he be a very smart boy .
He have go a far in his study a Willowdale School can take him , have qualify for entrance into the Blue Hill Academy , want to go there this fall and begin the beginning of a college course .
Well , of course , Mother Page , we ca n't send Leicester to Blue Hill any more than we can send him to the moon . ''
`` No , '' mourn Mrs . Page , `` and the poor boy feel so badly over it .
His heart be set on go to college and be a doctor like his father .
He believe he could work his way through , if he could only get a start .
But there be n't any chance .
And I ca n't afford to keep him at school any long .
He be go into Mr. Churchill 's store at Willow Centre in the fall .
Mr. Churchill have very kindly offer him a place .
Leicester hat the thought of it -- I know he do , although he never say so . ''
`` Next to Leicester 's college course we want -- '' `` Music lesson for Jean . ''
Dorinda wink again .
`` Are music lesson for Jean really a difficulty ? ''
she say .
`` That be , one spell with a capital ? ''
`` Oh , yes , Dorinda dear .
At least , I 'm worried over it .
Jean love music so , and she have never have anything , poor child , not even a much school a she ought to have have .
I 've have to keep her home so much to help me with the work .
She have be such a good , patient little girl too , and her heart be set on music lesson . ''
`` Well , she must have them then -- after we get Leicester 's year at the academy for him .
That 's two .
The third be a new -- '' `` The roof must be shingle this fall , '' say Mrs . Page anxiously .
`` It really must , Dorinda .
It be no good than a sieve .
We be nearly drown every time it rain .
But I do n't know where the money to do it be go to come from . ''
`` Shingles for the roof , three , '' say Dorinda , a if she be carefully jot down something in a mental memorandum .
`` And fourth -- now , Mother Page , I will have my say this time -- fourthly , big capital of all , a Nice , New Dress and a Warm Fur Coat for Mother Page this winter .
Yes , yes , you must have them , dear .
It 's absolutely necessary .
We can wait a year or so for college course and music lesson to grow ; we can set basin under the leak and borrow some more if we have n't enough .
But a new dress and coat for you we must , shall , and will have , however it be to be bring about . ''
`` I would n't mind if I never get another new stitch , if I could only manage the other thing , '' say Mrs . Page stoutly .
`` If your Uncle Eugene would only help u a little , until Leicester get through !
He really ought to .
But of course he never will . ''
`` Have you ever ask him ? ''
say Dorinda .
`` Oh , my dear , no ; of course not , '' say Mrs . Page in a horrified tone , a if Dorinda have ask if she have ever steal a neighbour 's spoon .
`` I do n't see why you should n't , '' say Dorinda seriously .
`` Oh , Dorinda , Uncle Eugene hat u all .
He be terribly bitter against u .
He would never , never listen to any request for help , even if I could bring myself to make it . ''
`` Mother , what be the trouble between u and Uncle Eugene ?
I have never know the right of it .
I be too small to understand when I be home before .
All I remember be that Uncle Eugene never come to see u or speak to u when he meet u anywhere , and we be all afraid of him somehow .
I use to think of him a an ogre who would come creep up the back stair after dark and carry me off bodily if I be n't good .
What make him our enemy ?
And how do he come to get all of Grandfather Page 's property when Father get nothing ? ''
`` Well , you know , Dorinda , that your Grandfather Page be marry twice .
Eugene be his first wife 's son , and your father the second wife 's .
Eugene be a great deal old than your father -- he be twenty-five when your father be bear .
He be always an odd man , even in his youth , and he have be much displease at his father 's second marriage .
But he be very fond of your father -- whose mother , a you know , die at his birth -- and they be good friend and comrade until just before your father go to college .
They then quarrel ; the cause of the quarrel be insignificant ; with anyone else than Eugene a reconciliation would soon have be effect .
But Eugene never be friendly with your father from that time .
I think he be jealous of old Grandfather 's affection ; think the old man love your father best .
And then , a I have say , he be very eccentric and stubborn .
Well , your father go away to college and graduate , and then -- we be marry .
Grandfather Page be very angry with him for marry me .
He want him to marry somebody else .
He tell him he would disinherit him if he marry me .
I do not know this until we be marry .
But Grandfather Page keep his word .
He send for a lawyer and have a new will make , leave everything to Eugene .
I think , nay , I be sure , that he would have relent in time , but he die the very next week ; they find him dead in his bed one morning , so Eugene get everything ; and that be all there be of the story , Dorinda . ''
`` And Uncle Eugene have be our enemy ever since ? ''
`` Yes , ever since .
So you see , Dorinda dear , that I can not ask any favour of Uncle Eugene . ''
`` Yes , I see , '' say Dorinda understandingly .
To herself she add , `` But I do n't see why I should n't . ''
Dorinda think hard and long for the next few day about the capital difficulty .
She could think of only one thing to do and , despite old Admiral Page 's fight blood , she shrink from do it .
But one night she find Leicester with his head down on his book and -- no , it could n't be tear in his eye , because Leicester laugh scornfully at the insinuation .
`` I would n't cry over it , Dorinda ; I hope I 'm more of a man than that .
But I do really feel rather cut up because I 've no chance of get to college .
And I hate the thought of go into a store .
But I know I must for Mother 's sake , and I mean to pitch in and like it in spite of myself when the time come .
Only -- only -- '' And then Leicester get up and whistle and go to the window and stood with his back to Dorinda .
`` That settle it , '' say Dorinda out loud , a she brush her hair before the glass that night .
`` I 'll do it . ''
`` Do what ? ''
ask Jean from the bed .
`` A desperate deed , '' say Dorinda solemnly , and that be all she would say .
Next day Mrs . Page and Leicester go to town on business .
In the afternoon Dorinda put on her best dress and hat and start out .
Admiral Page 's fight blood be glow in her cheek a she walk briskly up the hill road , but her heart beat in an odd fashion .
`` I wonder if I be a little scared , ` way down deep , '' say Dorinda .
`` I believe I be .
But I 'm go to do it for all that , and the scareder I get the more I 'll do it . ''
Oaklawn , where Uncle Eugene live , be two mile away .
It be a fine old place in beautiful ground .
But Dorinda do not quail before it splendour ; nor do her heart fail her , even after she have ring the bell and have be show by a maid into a very handsome parlour , but it still continue to beat in that queer fashion halfway up her throat .
Presently Uncle Eugene come in , a tall , black-eyed old man , with a fine head of silver hair that should have frame a ruddy , benevolent face , instead of Uncle Eugene 's hard-lipped , bushy-browed countenance .
Dorinda stand up , dusky and crimson , with brave , glow eye .
Uncle Eugene look at her sharply .
`` Who be you ? ''
he say bluntly .
`` I be your niece , Dorinda Page , '' say Dorinda steadily .
`` And what do my niece , Dorinda Page , want with me ? ''
demanded Uncle Eugene , motion to her to sit down and sit down himself .
But Dorinda remain stand .
It be easy to fight on your foot .
`` I want you to do four thing , Uncle Eugene , '' she say , as calmly a if she be make the most natural and ordinary request in the world .
`` I want you to lend u the money to send Leicester to Blue Hill Academy ; he will pay it back to you when he get through college .
I want you to lend Jean the money for music lesson ; she will pay you back when she get far enough along to give lesson herself .
And I want you to lend me the money to shingle our house and get Mother a new dress and fur coat for the winter .
I 'll pay you back sometime for that , because I be go to set up a a dressmaker pretty soon . ''
`` Anything more ? ''
say Uncle Eugene , when Dorinda stop .
`` Nothing more just now , I think , '' say Dorinda reflectively .
`` Why do n't you ask for something for yourself ? ''
say Uncle Eugene .
`` I do n't want anything for myself , '' say Dorinda promptly .
`` Or -- yes , I do , too .
I want your friendship , Uncle Eugene . ''
`` Be kind enough to sit down , '' say Uncle Eugene .
Dorinda sit .
`` You be a Page , '' say Uncle Eugene .
`` I saw that as soon a I come in .
I will send Leicester to college and I shall not ask or expect to be pay back .
Jean shall have her music lesson , and a piano to practise them on as well .
The house shall be shingle , and the money for the new dress and coat shall be forthcoming .
You and I will be friend . ''
`` Thank you , '' gasp Dorinda , wonder if , after all , it be n't a dream .
`` I would have gladly assist your mother before , '' say Uncle Eugene , `` if she have ask me .
I have determine that she must ask me first .
I know that half the money should have be your father 's by right .
I be prepare to hand it over to him or his family , if I be ask for it .
But I wish to humble his pride , and the Carter pride , to the point of ask for it .
Not a very amiable temper , you will say ?
I admit it .
I be not amiable and I never have be amiable .
You must be prepare to find me very unamiable .
I see that you be wait for a chance to say something polite and pleasant on that score , but you may save yourself the trouble .
I shall hope and expect to have you visit me often .
If your mother and your brother and sister see fit to come with you , I shall welcome them also .
I think that this be all it be necessary to say just now .
Will you stay to tea with me this evening ? ''
Dorinda stay to tea , since she know that Jean be at home to attend to matter there .
She and Uncle Eugene get on famously .
When she leave , Uncle Eugene , grim and hard-lipped a ever , saw her to the door .
`` Good evening , Niece Dorinda .
You be a Page and I be proud of you .
Tell your mother that many thing in this life be lose through not ask for them .
I do n't think you be in need of the information for yourself . ''
Her Own People The Taunton School have close for the summer holiday .
Constance Foster and Miss Channing go down the long , elm-shaded street together , a they generally do , because they happen to board on the same block downtown .
Constance be the young teacher on the staff , and have charge of the Primary Department .
She have teach in Taunton school a year , and at it close she be as much of a stranger in the little corp of teacher a she have be at the beginning .
The others think her stiff and unapproachable ; she be unpopular in a negative way with all except Miss Channing , who make it a profession to like everybody , the more so if other people dislike them .
Miss Channing be the old teacher on the staff , and teach the fifth grade .
She be short and stout and jolly ; nothing , not even the icy reserve , ever daunt Miss Channing .
`` Is n't it good to think of two whole bless month of freedom ? ''
she say jubilantly .
`` Two month to dream , to be lazy , to go where one please , no exercise to correct , no report to make , no pupil to keep in order .
To be sure , I love them every one , but I 'll love them all the more for a bit of a rest from them .
Is n't it good ? ''
A little satirical smile cross Constance Foster 's dark , discontent face , look just then all the more discontented in contrast to Miss Channing 's rosy , beam countenance .
`` It 's very good , if you have anywhere to go , or anybody who care where you go , '' she say bitterly .
`` For my own part , I 'm sorry school be close .
I 'd rather go on teach all summer . ''
`` Heresy ! ''
say Miss Channing .
`` Rank heresy !
What be your vacation plan ? ''
`` I have n't any , '' say Constance wearily .
`` I 've put off think about vacation as long a I possibly could .
You 'll call that heresy , too , Miss Channing . ''
`` It 's bad than heresy , '' say Miss Channing briskly .
`` It 's a crying necessity for blue pill , that 's what it be .
Your whole mental and moral and physical and spiritual system must be out of kilter , my child .
No vacation plan !
You must have vacation plan .
You must be go somewhere . ''
`` Oh , I suppose I 'll hunt up a boarding place somewhere in the country , and go there and mope until September . ''
`` Have you no friend , Constance ? ''
`` No -- no , I have n't anybody in the world .
That be why I hate vacation , that be why I 've hat to hear you and the others discuss your vacation plan .
You all have somebody to go to .
It have just fill me up with hatred of my life . ''
Miss Channing swallow her honest horror at such a state of feeling .
`` Constance , tell me about yourself .
I 've often want to ask you , but I be always a little afraid to .
You seem so reserved and -- and , a if you do n't want to be ask about yourself . ''
`` I know it .
I know I 'm stiff and hateful , and that nobody like me , and that it be all my own fault .
No , never mind try to smooth it over , Miss Channing .
It 's the truth , and it hurt me , but I ca n't help it .
I 'm get more bitter and pessimistic and unwholesome every day of my life .
Sometimes it seem a if I hat all the world because I 'm so lonely in it .
I 'm nobody .
My mother die when I be bear -- and Father -- oh , I do n't know .
One ca n't say anything against one 's father , Miss Channing .
But I have a hard childhood -- or rather , I do n't have any childhood at all .
We be always move about .
We do n't seem to have any friend at all .
My mother might have have relative somewhere , but I never heard of any .
I do n't even know where her home be .
Father never would talk of her .
He die two year ago , and since then I 've be absolutely alone . ''
`` Oh , you poor girl , '' say Miss Channing softly .
`` I want friend , '' go on Constance , seem to take a pleasure in open confession now that her tongue be loose .
`` I 've always just long for somebody belonging to me to love .
I do n't love anybody , Miss Channing , and when a girl be in that state , she be all wrong .
She get hard and bitter and resentful -- I have , anyway .
I struggle against it at first , but it have be too much for me .
It poison everything .
There be nobody to care anything about me , whether I live or die . ''
`` Oh , yes , there be One , '' say Miss Channing gently .
`` God care , Constance . ''
Constance give a disagreeable little laugh .
`` That sound like Miss Williams -- she be so religious .
God do n't mean anything to me , Miss Channing .
I 've just the same resentful feel toward him that I have for all the world , if he exist at all .
There , I 've shock you in good earnest now .
You should have leave me alone , Miss Channing . ''
`` God mean nothing to you because you 've never have him translate to you through human love , Constance , '' say Miss Channing seriously .
`` No , you have n't shock me -- at least , not in the way you mean .
I 'm only terribly sorry . ''
`` Oh , never mind me , '' say Constance , freeze up into her reserve again a if she regret her confidence .
`` I 'll get along all right .
This be one of my off day , when everything look black . ''
Miss Channing walk on in silence .
She must help Constance , but Constance be not easily help .
When school reopen , she might be able to do something worthwhile for the girl , but just now the only thing to do be to put her in the way of a pleasant vacation .
`` You speak of boarding , '' she say , when Constance pause at the door of her boarding-house .
`` Have you any particular place in view ?
No ?
Well , I know a place which I be sure you would like .
I be there two summer ago .
It be a country place about a hundred mile from here .
Pine Valley be it name .
It 's restful and homey , and the people be so nice .
If you like , I 'll give you the address of the family I board with . ''
`` Thank you , '' say Constance indifferently .
`` I might as well go there as anywhere else . ''
`` Yes , but listen to me , dear .
Do n't take your morbidness with you .
Open your heart to the summer , and let it sunshine in , and when you come back in the fall , come prepare to let u all be your friend .
We 'd like to be , and while friendship do n't take the place of the love of one 's own people , still it be a good and beautiful thing .
Besides , there be other unhappy people in the world -- try to help them when you meet them , and you 'll forget about yourself .
Good-by for now , and I hope you 'll have a pleasant vacation in spite of yourself . ''
Constance go to Pine Valley , but she take her evil spirit with her .
Not even the beauty of the valley , with it great balmy pine , and the cheerful friendliness of it people could exorcise it .
Nevertheless , she like the place and find a wholesome pleasure in the long tramp she take along the piney road .
`` I saw such a pretty spot in my ramble this afternoon , '' she tell her landlady one evening .
`` It be about three mile from here at the end of the valley .
Such a picturesque , low-eaved little house , all cover over with honeysuckle .
It be set between a big orchard and an old-fashioned flower garden with great pine at the back . ''
`` Heartsease Farm , '' say Mrs. Hewitt promptly .
`` Bless you , there 's only one place around here of that description .
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce , Uncle Charles and Aunt Flora , a we all call them , live there .
They be the dear old couple alive .
You ought to go and see them , they 'd be delight .
Aunt Flora just love company .
They 're real lonesome by time . ''
`` Have n't they any child ? ''
ask Constance indifferently .
Her interest be in the place , not in the people .
`` No .
They have a niece once , though .
They bring her up and they just worship her .
She run away with a worthless fellow -- I forget his name , if I ever know it .
He be handsome and smooth-tongued , but he be a scamp .
She die soon after and it just break their heart .
They do n't even know where she be bury , and they never hear anything more about her husband .
I 've hear that Aunt Flora 's hair turn snow-white in a month .
I 'll take you up to see her some day when I find time . ''
Mrs. Hewitt do not find time , but thereafter Constance order her ramble that she might frequently pass Heartsease Farm .
The quaint old spot have a strange attraction for her .
She find herself learn to love it , and so unused be this unfortunate girl to love anything that she laugh at herself for her foolishness .
One even a fortnight later Constance , with her arm full of fern and wood-lilies , come out of the pine wood above Heartsease Farm just a heavy raindrop begin to fall .
She have prolong her ramble unseasonably , and it be now nearly night , and very certainly a rainy night at that .
She be three mile from home and without even an extra wrap .
She hurry down the lane , but by the time she reach the main road , the few drop have become a downpour .
She must seek shelter somewhere , and Heartsease Farm be the near .
She push open the gate and run up the slope of the yard between the hedge of sweetbriar .
She be spar the trouble of knocking , for a she come to a breathless halt on the big red sandstone doorstep , the door be flung open , and the white-haired , happy-faced little woman stand on the threshold have seize her hand and drawn her in bodily before she could speak a word .
`` I saw you come from upstairs , '' say Aunt Flora gleefully , `` and I just run down as fast a I could .
Dear , dear , you be a little wet .
But we 'll soon dry you .
Come right in -- I 've a bit of a fire in the grate , for the evening be chilly .
They laugh at me for love a fire so , but there 's nothing like it snap and sparkle .
You 're rain in for the night , and I 'm as glad a I can be .
I know who you be -- you be Miss Foster .
I 'm Aunt Flora , and this be Uncle Charles . ''
Constance let herself be put into a cushiony chair and fuss over with an unaccustomed sense of pleasure .
The rain be come down in torrent , and she certainly be domicile at Heartsease Farm for the night .
Somehow , she felt glad of it .
Mrs. Hewitt be right in call Aunt Flora sweet , and Uncle Charles be a big , jolly , ruddy-faced old man with a hearty manner .
He shake Constance 's hand until it ache , throw more pine knot in the fire and tell her he wish it would rain every night if it rain down a nice little girl like her .
She find herself strangely attract to the old couple .
The name of their farm be in perfect keep with their atmosphere .
Constance 's frozen soul expand in it .
She chat merrily and girlishly , feel a if she have know them all her life .
When bedtime come , Aunt Flora take her upstairs to a little gable room .
`` My spare room be all in disorder just now , dearie , we have be paint it floor .
So I 'm go to put you here in Jeannie 's room .
Someway you remind me of her , and you be just about the age she be when she leave u .
If it be n't for that , I do n't think I could put you in her room , not even if every other floor in the house be be paint .
It be so sacred to me .
I keep it just a she leave it , not a thing be change .
Good night dearie , and I hope you 'll have pleasant dream . ''
When Constance find herself alone in the room , she look about her with curiosity .
It be a very dainty , old-fashioned little room .
The floor be cover with braided mat ; the two square , small-paned window be drape with snowy muslin .
In one corner be a little white bed with white curtain and daintily ruffle pillow , and in the other a dress table with a gilt-framed mirror and the various knick-knacks of a girlish toilet .
There be a little blue rocker and an ottoman with a work-basket on it .
In the work-basket be a bit of unfinished , yellow lace with a needle sticking in it .
A small bookcase under the slop ceiling be fill with book .
Constance pick up one and open it at the yellow title-page .
She give a little cry of surprise .
The name write across the page in a fine , dainty script be `` Jean Constance Irving , '' her mother 's name !
For a moment Constance stand motionless .
Then she turn impulsively and hurry downstairs again .
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce be still in the sitting room talk to each other in the firelight .
`` Oh , '' cry Constance excitedly .
`` I must know , I must ask you .
This be my mother 's name , Jean Constance Irving , can it be possible she be your little Jeannie ? ''
* * * * * A fortnight later Miss Channing receive a letter from Constance .
`` I be so happy , '' she write .
`` Oh , Miss Channing , I have find ` mine own people , ' and Heartsease Farm be to be my own , own dear home for always .
`` It be such a strange coincidence , no , Aunt Flora say it be Providence , and I believe it be , too .
I come here one rainy night , and Aunty put me in my mother 's room , think of it !
My own dear mother 's room , and I find her name in a book .
And now the mystery be all clear up , and we be so happy .
`` Everything be dear and beautiful , and almost the dear and most beautiful thing be that I be get acquaint with my mother , the mother I never know before .
She no longer seem dead to me .
I feel that she live and love me , and I be learn to know her good every day .
I have her room and her book and all her little girlish possession .
When I read her book , with their passage underline by her hand , I feel a if she be speak to me .
She be very good and sweet , in spite of her one foolish , bitter mistake , and I want to be as much like her a I can .
`` I say that this be almost the dear and most beautiful thing .
The very dear and most beautiful be this -- God mean something to me now .
He mean so much !
I remember that you say to me that he mean nothing to me because I have no human love in my heart to translate the divine .
But I have now , and it have lead me to Him .
`` I be not go back to Taunton .
I have send in my resignation .
I be go to stay home with Aunty and Uncle .
It be so sweet to say home and know what it mean .
`` Aunty say you must come and spend all your next vacation with u .
You see , I have lot of vacation plan now , even for a year ahead .
After all , there be no need of the blue pill !
`` I feel like a new creature , make over from the heart and soul out .
I look back with shame and contrition on the old Constance .
I want you to forget her and only remember your grateful friend , the new Constance . ''
Ida 's New Year Cake Mary Craig and Sara Reid and Josie Pye have all flock into Ida Mitchell 's room at their boarding-house to condole with each other because none of them be able to go home for New Year 's .
Mary and Josie have be home for Christmas , so they do n't really feel so badly off .
But Ida and Sara have n't even that consolation .
Ida be a third-year student at the Clifton Academy ; she have holiday , and nowhere , so she mournfully affirm , to spend them .
At home three brother and a sister be down with the measles , and , a Ida have never have them , she could not go there ; and the news have come too late for her to make any other arrangement .
Mary and Josie be clerk in a Clifton bookstore , and Sara be stenographer in a Clifton lawyer 's office .
And they be all jolly and thoughtless and very fond of one another .
`` This will be the first New Year 's I have ever spend away from home , '' sigh Sara , nibble chocolate fudge .
`` It do make me so blue to think of it .
And not even a holiday -- I 'll have to go to work just the same .
Now Ida here , she do n't really need sympathy .
She have holiday -- a whole fortnight -- and nothing to do but enjoy them . ''
`` Holidays be dismal thing when you 've nowhere to holiday , '' say Ida mournfully .
`` The time drag horribly .
But never mind , girl , I 've a plummy bit of news for you .
I 'd a letter from Mother today and , bless the dear woman , she be send me a cake -- a New Year 's cake -- a great big , spicy , mellow , delicious fruit cake .
It will be along tomorrow and , girl , we 'll celebrate when it come .
I 've ask everybody in the house up to my room for New Year 's Eve , and we 'll have a royal good time . ''
`` How splendid ! ''
say Mary .
`` There 's nothing I like more than a slice of real countrified home-made fruit cake , where they do n't scrimp on egg or butter or raisin .
You 'll give me a good big piece , wo n't you , Ida ? ''
`` As much a you can eat , '' promise Ida .
`` I can warrant Mother 's fruit cake .
Yes , we 'll have a jamboree .
Miss Monroe have promise to come in too .
She say she have a weakness for fruit cake . ''
`` Oh ! ''
breathe all the girl .
Miss Monroe be their idol , whom they have to be content to worship at a distance a a general thing .
She be a clever journalist , who work on a paper , and be repute to be write a book .
The girl felt they be highly privilege to be board in the same house , and count that day lose on which they do not receive a businesslike nod or an absent-minded smile from Miss Monroe .
If she ever have time to speak to one of them about the weather , that fortunate one put on air for a week .
And now to think that she have actually promise to drop into Ida 's room on New Year 's Eve and eat fruit cake !
`` There go that funny little namesake of yours , Ida , '' say Josie , who be sit by the window .
`` She seem to be stay in town over the holiday too .
Wonder why .
Perhaps she do n't belong anywhere .
She really be a most forlorn-appearing little mortal . ''
There be two Ida Mitchells attend the Clifton Academy .
The other Ida be a plain , quiet , pale-faced little girl of fifteen who be in the second year .
Beyond that , none of the third-year Ida Mitchell 's set know anything about her , or try to find out .
`` She must be very poor , '' say Ida carelessly .
`` She dress so shabbily , and she always look so pinched and subdue .
She board in a little house out on Marlboro Road , and I pity her if she have to spend her holiday there , for a more dismal place I never saw .
I be there once on the trail of a book I have lose .
Going , girl ?
Well , do n't forget tomorrow night . ''
Ida spend the next day decorate her room and watching for the arrival of her cake .
It have n't come by tea-time , and she conclude to go down to the express office and investigate .
It would be dreadful if that cake do n't turn up in time , with all the girl and Miss Monroe come in .
Ida felt that she would be mortify to death .
Inquiry at the express office discover two thing .
A box have come in for Miss Ida Mitchell , Clifton ; and say box have be deliver to Miss Ida Mitchell , Clifton .
`` One of our clerk say he know you personally -- board next door to you -- and he 'd take it round himself , '' the manager inform her .
`` There must be some mistake , '' say Ida in perplexity .
`` I do n't know any of the clerk here .
Oh -- why -- there 's another Ida Mitchell in town !
Can it be possible my cake have go to her ? ''
The manager think it very possible , and offer to send around and see .
But Ida say it be on her way home and she would call herself .
At the dismal little house on Marlboro Road she be send up three flight of stair to the other Ida Mitchell 's small hall bedroom .
The other Ida Mitchell open the door for her .
Behind her , on the table , be the cake -- such a fine , big , brown cake , with raisin stick out all over it !
`` Why , how do you do , Miss Mitchell ! ''
exclaim the other Ida with shy pleasure .
`` Come in .
I do n't know you be in town .
It 's real good of you to come and see me .
And just see what I 've have send to me !
Is n't it a beauty ?
I be so surprised when it come -- and , oh , so glad !
I be feel so blue and lonesome -- a if I have n't a friend in the world .
I -- I -- yes , I be cry when that cake come .
It have just make the world over for me .
Do sit down and I 'll cut you a piece .
I 'm sure you 're a fond of fruit cake a I be . ''
Ida sit down in a chair , feeling bewilder and awkward .
This be a nice predicament !
How could she tell that other Ida that the cake do n't belong to her ?
The poor thing be so delighted .
And , oh , what a bare , lonely little room !
The big , luxurious cake seem to emphasize the bareness and loneliness .
`` Who -- who send it to you ? ''
she ask lamely .
`` It must have be Mrs. Henderson , because there be nobody else who would , '' answer the other Ida .
`` Two year ago I be go to school in Trenton and I board with her .
When I leave her to come to Clifton she tell me she would send me a cake for Christmas .
Well , I expect that cake last year -- and it do n't come .
I ca n't tell you how disappointed I be .
You 'll think me very childish .
But I be so lonely , with no home to go to like the other girl .
But she send it this year , you see .
It be so nice to think that somebody have remember me at New Year 's .
It be n't the cake itself -- it 's the thought behind it .
It have just make all the difference in the world .
There -- just sample it , Miss Mitchell . ''
The other Ida cut a generous slice from the cake and pass it to her guest .
Her eye be shin and her cheek be flush .
She be really a very sweet-looking little thing -- not a bit like her usual pale , timid self .
Ida eat the cake slowly .
What be she to do ?
She could n't tell the other Ida the truth about the cake .
But the girl she have ask in to help eat it that very even !
And Miss Monroe !
Oh , dear , it be too bad .
But it could n't be help .
She would n't blot out that light on the other Ida 's face for anything !
Of course , she would find out the truth in time -- probably after she have write to thank Mrs. Henderson for the cake ; but meanwhile she would have enjoy the cake , and the suppose kindness back of it would tide her over her New Year loneliness .
`` It 's delicious , '' say Ida heartily , swallow her own disappointment with the cake .
`` I 'm -- I 'm glad I happen to drop in a I be pass . ''
Ida hop that speech do n't come under the head of a fib .
`` So be I , '' say the other Ida brightly .
`` Oh , I 've be so lonesome and downhearted this week .
I 'm so alone , you see -- there be n't anybody to care .
Father die three year ago , and I do n't remember my mother at all .
There be nobody but myself , and it be dreadfully lonely at time .
When the Academy be open and I have my lesson to study , I do n't mind so much .
But the holiday take all the courage out of me . ''
`` We should have fraternize more this week , '' smile Ida , regret that she have n't think of it before .
`` I could n't go home because of the measles , and I 've mop a lot .
We might have spend the time together and have a real nice , jolly holiday . ''
The other Ida blush with delight .
`` I 'd love to be friend with you , '' she say slowly .
`` I 've often think I 'd like to know you .
Is n't it odd that we have the same name ?
It be so nice of you to come and see me .
I -- I 'd love to have you come often . ''
`` I will , '' say Ida heartily .
`` Perhaps you will stay the evening , '' suggest the other Ida .
`` I 've ask some of the girl who board here in to have some cake , I 'm so glad to be able to give them something -- they 've all be so good to me .
They be all clerk in store and some of them be so tired and lonely .
It 's so nice to have a pleasure to share with them .
Wo n't you stay ? ''
`` I 'd like to , '' laugh Ida , `` but I have some guest of my own invite in for tonight .
I must hurry home , for they will most surely be wait for me . ''
She laugh again a she think what else the guest would be wait for .
But her face be sober enough a she walk home .
`` But I 'm glad I leave the cake with her , '' she say resolutely .
`` Poor little thing !
It mean so much to her .
It mean only ' a good feed , ' a Josie say , to me .
I 'm simply go to make it my business next term to be good friend with the other Ida Mitchell .
I 'm afraid we third-year girl be very self-centred and selfish .
And I know what I 'll do !
I 'll write to Abby Morton in Trenton to send me Mrs. Henderson 's address , and I 'll write her a letter and ask her not to let Ida know she do n't send the cake . ''
Ida go into a confectionery store and invest in what Josie Pye be wont to call `` ready-to-wear eatable '' -- fancy cake , fruit , and candy .
When she reach her room she find it full of expectant girl , with Miss Monroe enthrone in the midst of them -- Miss Monroe in a wonderful evening dress of black lace and yellow silk , with rose in her hair and pearl on her neck -- all don in honour of Ida 's little celebration .
I wo n't say that , just for a moment , Ida do n't regret that she have give up her cake .
`` Good evening , Miss Mitchell , '' cry Mary Craig gaily .
`` Walk right in and make yourself at home in your own room , do !
We all meet in the hall , and knock and knock .
Finally Miss Monroe come , so we make bold to walk right in .
Where be the only and original fruit cake , Ida ?
My mouth have be water all day . ''
`` The other Ida Mitchell be probably entertain her friend at this moment with my fruit cake , '' say Ida , with a little laugh .
Then she tell the whole story .
`` I 'm so sorry to disappoint you , '' she conclude , `` but I simply could n't tell that poor , lonely child that the cake be n't intend for her .
I 've bring all the goody home with me that I could buy , and we 'll have to do the best we can without the fruit cake . ''
Their `` best '' prove to be a very good thing .
They have a jolly New Year 's Eve , and Miss Monroe sparkle and entertain most brilliantly .
They keep their celebration up until twelve to welcome the new year in , and then they bid Ida good night .
But Miss Monroe linger for a moment behind the others to say softly : `` I want to tell you how good and sweet I think it be of you to give up your cake to the other Ida .
That little bit of unselfishness be a good guerdon for your new year . ''
And Ida , radiant-faced at this praise from her idol , answer heartily : `` I 'm afraid I 'm anything but unselfish , Miss Monroe .
But I mean to try to be more this come year and think a little about the girl outside of my own little set who may be lonely or discourage .
The other Ida Mitchell be n't go to have to depend on that fruit cake alone for comfort and encouragement for the next twelve month . ''
In the Old Valley The man halt on the crest of the hill and look sombrely down into the long valley below .
It be even , and although the hill around him be still in the light the valley be already fill with kindly , placid shadow .
A wind that blow across it from the misty blue sea beyond be make wild music in the rugged fir above his head a he stand in an angle of the weather-grey longer fence , knee-deep in bracken .
It have be by these fir he have halt twenty year ago , turn for one last glance at the valley below , the home valley which he have never see since .
But then the fir have be little more than vigorous young sapling ; they be tall , gnarled tree now , with lichened trunk , and their low bough be dead .
But high up their top be green and catch the saffron light of the west .
He remember that when a boy he have think there be nothing more beautiful than the evening sunshine fall athwart the dark green fir bough on the hill .
As he listen to the swish and murmur of the wind , the earth-old tune with the power to carry the soul back to the dawn of time , the year fell away from him and he forget much , remember more .
He know now that there have always be a longing in his heart to hear the wind-chant in the fir .
He have call that longing by other name , but he know it now for what it be when , hearing , he be satisfy .
He be a tall man with iron-grey hair and the face of a conqueror -- strong , pitiless , unswerving .
Eagle eye , quick to discern and unfaltering to pursue ; jaw square and intrepid ; mouth form to keep secret and cajole men to his will -- a face that hide much and reveal little .
It tell of power and intellect , but the soul of the man be a hidden thing .
Not in the arena where he have fight and triumph , give fierce blow for blow , be it to be show ; but here , look down on the homeland , with the strength of the hill about him , it rise dominantly and claim it own .
The old bond hold .
Yonder below him be home -- the old house that have shelter him , the graf of his kin , the wide field where his boyhood dream have be dream .
Should he go down to it ?
This be the question he ask himself .
He have come back to it , heartsick of his idol of the marketplace .
For year they have satisfy him , the buying and selling and get gain , the pitting of strength and craft against strength and craft , the tireless struggle , the exultation of victory .
Then , suddenly , they have fail their worshipper ; they cease to satisfy ; the sacrifice he have heap on their altar avail him nothing in this new need and hunger of his be .
His god mock him and he weary of their service .
Were there not good thing than these , thing he have once know and love and forget ?
Where be the ideal of his youth , the lofty aspiration that have upborne him then ?
Where be the eagerness and zest of new dawn , the earnestness of well-filled , purposeful hour of labour , the satisfaction of a good day worthily live , at eventide the unbroken rest of long , starry night ?
Where might he find them again ?
Were they yet to be have for the seek in the old valley ?
With the thought come a great yearning for home .
He have have many habitation , but he realize now that he have never think of any of these place a home .
That name have all unconsciously be keep sacred to the long , green , seaward-looking glen where he have be bear .
So he have come back to it , draw by a longing not to be resist .
But at the last he felt afraid .
There have be many change , of that he felt sure .
Would it still be home ?
And if not , would not the loss be most irreparable and bitter ?
Would it not be good to go away , have look at it from the hill and have hear the saga of the fir , keep his memory of it unblurred , than risk the probable disillusion of a return to the place that have forget him and friend whom the varying year must certainly have change a he have change himself ?
No , he would not go down .
It have be a foolish whim to come at all -- foolish , because the object of his quest be not to be find there or elsewhere .
He could not enter again into the heritage of boyhood and the heart of youth .
He could not find there the old dream and hop that have make life sweet .
He understand that he could not bring back to the old valley what he have take from it .
He have lose that intangible , all-real wealth of faith and idealism and zest ; he have barter it away for the hard , yellow gold of the marketplace , and he realize at last how much poor he be than when he have leave that home valley .
His be a name that stand for million , but he be beggar of hope and purpose .
No , he would not go down .
There be no one leave there , unchanged and unchanging , to welcome him .
He would be a stranger there , even among his kin .
He would stay awhile on the hill , until the night come down over it , and then he would go back to his own place .
Down below him , on the crest of a little upland , he saw his old home , a weather-grey house , almost hidden among white birch and apple tree , with a thick fir grove to the north of it .
He have be bear in that old house ; his early memory be of stand on it threshold and look afar up to the long green hill .
`` What be over the hill ? ''
he have ask of his mother .
With a smile she have make answer , `` Many thing , laddie .
Wonderful thing , beautiful thing , heart-breaking thing . ''
`` Some day I shall go over the hill and find them all , Mother , '' he have say stoutly .
She have laugh and sigh and catch him to her heart .
He have no recollection of his father , who have die soon after his son 's birth , but how well he remember his mother , his little , brown-eyed , girlish-faced mother !
He have live on the homestead until he be twenty .
He have till the broad field and go in and out among the people , and their life have be his life .
But his heart be not in his work .
He want to go beyond the hill and seek what he know must be there .
The valley be too narrow , too placid .
He long for conflict and accomplishment .
He felt power and desire and the lust of endeavour stirring in him .
Oh , to go over the hill to a world where men live !
Such have be the goal of all his dream .
When his mother die he sell the farm to his cousin , Stephen Marshall .
He suppose it still belong to him .
Stephen have be a good sort of a fellow , a bit slow and plodding , perhaps , bovinely content to dwell within the hill , never hearken or respond to the lure of the beyond .
Yet it might be he have choose the good part , to dwell thus on the land of his father , with a wife win in youth , and child to grow up around him .
The childless , wifeless man look down from the hill wonder if it might have be so with him have he be content to stay in the valley .
Perhaps so .
There have be Joyce .
He wonder where Joyce be now and whom she have marry , for of course she have marry .
Did she too live somewhere down there in the valley , the matronly , content mother of lad and lassie ?
He could see her old home also , not so far from his own , just across a green meadow by way of a footpath and stile and through the fir beyond it .
How often he have traverse that path in the old day , know that Joyce would be wait at the end of it among the fir -- Joyce , the playmate of childhood , the sweet confidante and companion of youth !
They have never be avow lover , but he have love her then , a a boy love , although he have never say a word of love to her .
Joyce alone know of his longing and his ambition and his dream ; he have tell them all to her freely , sure of the understanding and sympathy no other soul in the valley could give him .
How true and strong and womanly and gentle she have always be !
When he leave home he have mean to go back to her some day .
They have part without pledge or kiss , yet he know she love him and that he love her .
At first they correspond , then the letter begin to grow few .
It be his fault ; he have gradually forget .
The new , fierce , burn interest that come into his life crowd the old one out .
Boyhood 's love be scorch up in that hot flame of ambition and contest .
He have not hear from or of Joyce for many year .
Now , again , he remember a he look down on the homeland field .
The old place have change little , whatever he might fear of the people who live in them .
There be the school he have attend , a small , low-eaved , white-washed building set back from the main road among green spruce .
Beyond it , amid tall elm , be the old church with it square tower hung with ivy .
He felt glad to see it ; he have expect to see a new church , offensively spick-and-span and modern , for this church have be old when he be a boy .
He recall the many time he have walk to it on the peaceful Sunday afternoon , sometimes with his mother , sometimes with Joyce .
The sun set far out to sea and suck down with it all the light out of the winnowed dome of sky .
The star come out singly and crystal clear over the far purple curve of the hill .
Suddenly , glance over his shoulder , he saw through an arch of black fir boughs a young moon swing low in a lake of palely tint saffron sky .
He smile a little , remember that in boyhood it have be hold a good omen to see the new moon over the right shoulder .
Down in the valley the light begin to twinkle out here and there like earth-stars .
He would wait until he saw the kitchen light from the window of his old home .
Then he would go .
He wait until the whole valley be zone with a glitter girdle , but no light glimmer out through his native tree .
Why be it lack , that light he have so often hail at dark , come home from boyish ramble on the hill ?
He felt anxious and dissatisfied , a if he could not go away until he have see it .
When it be quite dark he descend the hill resolutely .
He must know why the homelight have fail him .
When he find himself in the old garden his heart grow sick and sore with disappointment and a bitter homesickness .
It need but a glance , even in the dimness of the summer night , to see that the old house be desert and fall to decay .
The kitchen door swung open on rusty hinge ; the window be break and lifeless ; weed grow thickly over the yard and crowd wantonly up to the very threshold through the chink of the rotten platform .
Cuthbert Marshall sit down on the old red sandstone step of the door and bow his head in his hand .
This be what he have come back to -- this ghost and wreck of his past !
Oh , bitterness !
From where he sit he saw the new house that Stephen have build beyond the fir grove , with a cheerful light shin from it window .
After a long time he go over to it and knock at the door .
Stephen come to it , a stout grizzle farmer , with a chubby boy on his shoulder .
He be not much change ; Cuthbert easily recognize him , but to Stephen Marshall no recognition come of this man with whom he have play and work for year .
Cuthbert be oblige to tell who he be .
He be make instantly and warmly welcome .
Stephen be unfeignedly glad to see him , and Stephen 's comely wife , whom he remember a a slim , fresh-cheeked valley girl , extend a kind and graceful hospitality .
The boy and girl , too , soon make friend with him .
Yet he felt himself the stranger and the alien , whom the long , swift-passing year have shut forever from his old place .
He and Stephen talk late that night , and in the morning he yield to their entreaty to stay another day with them .
He spend it wander about the farm and the old haunt of wood and stream .
Yet he could not find himself .
This valley have his past in it keep , but it could not give it back to him ; he have lose the master word that might have compel it .
He ask Stephen fully about all his old friend and neighbour with one exception .
He could not ask him what have become of Joyce Cameron .
The question be on his lip a dozen time , but he shrink from utter it .
He have a vague , secret dread that the answer , whatever it might be , would hurt him .
In the evening he yield to a whim and go across to the Cameron homestead , by the old footpath which be still keep open .
He walk slowly and dreamily , with his eye on the far hill scarf in the splendour of sunset .
So he have walk in the old day , but he have no dream now of what lay beyond the hill , and Joyce would not be wait among the fir .
The stile he remember be go , replace by a little rustic gate .
As he pass through it he lift his eye and there before him he saw her , stand tall and gracious among the grey tree , with the light from the west fall over her face .
So she have stood , so she have look many an evening of the long-ago .
She have not change ; he realize that in the first amaze , incredulous glance .
Perhaps there be line on her face , a thread or two of silver in the soft brown hair , but those splendid steady blue eye be the same , and the soul of her look out through them , true to itself , the staunch , brave , sweet soul of the maiden ripen to womanhood .
`` Joyce ! ''
he say , stupidly , unbelievingly .
She smile and put out her hand .
`` I be glad to see you , Cuthbert , '' she say simply .
`` Stephen 's Mary tell me you have come .
And I think you would be over to see u this evening . ''
She have offer him only one hand but he take both and hold her so , look hungrily down at her a a man look at something he know must be his salvation if salvation exists for him .
`` Is it possible you be here still , Joyce ? ''
he say slowly .
`` And you have not change at all . ''
She colour slightly and pull away her hand , laugh .
`` Oh , indeed I have .
I have grow old .
The twilight be so kind it hide that , but it be true .
Come into the house , Cuthbert .
Father and Mother will be glad to see you . ''
`` After a little , '' he say imploringly .
`` Let u stay here awhile first , Joyce .
I want to make sure that this be no dream .
Last night I stand on those hill yonder and look down , but I mean to go away because I think there would be no one leave to welcome me .
If I have know you be here !
You have live here in the old valley all these year ? ''
`` All these year , '' she say gently , `` I suppose you think it must have be a very meagre life ? ''
`` No .
I be much wiser now than I be once , Joyce .
I have learn wisdom beyond the hill .
One learn there -- in time -- but sometimes the lesson be learn too late .
