I actually smelt the coffee we use to have , and one night I nearly cry when I wake from a dream of Asia 's ginger cooky .
I declare , it be one of the bitter disappointment of my life to face hunger with that spicy smell in my nostril .
If you 've get any , do give me one ! '
A pitiful murmur break from all the aunt and cousin , and Emil be at once borne away to feast on the desired cooky , a supply always be on hand .
Mrs Jo and her sister join the other group , glad to hear what Franz be say about Nat .
` The minute I saw how thin and shabby he be , I know that something be wrong ; but he make light of it , and be so happy over our visit and news that I let him off with a brief confession , and go to Professor Baumgarten and Bergmann .
From them I learn the whole story of his spending more money than he ought and try to atone for it by unnecessary work and sacrifice .
Baumgarten think it would do him good , so keep his secret till I come .
It do him good , and he 's pay his debt and earn his bread by the sweat of his brow , like an honest fellow . ' '
I like that much in Nat .
It be , a I say , a lesson , and he learn it well .
He prove himself a man , and have deserve the place Bergmann offer him , ' say Mr Bhaer , look well please a Franz add some fact already record . '
I tell you , Meg , that he have good stuff in him , and love for Daisy would keep him straight .
Dear lad , I wish I have him here this moment ! '
cry Mrs Jo , forget in delight the doubt and anxiety which have trouble her for month past . '
I be very glad , and suppose I shall give in a I always do , especially now that the epidemic rage so among u .
You and Emil have set all their head in a ferment , and Josie will be demand a lover before I can turn round , ' answer Mrs Meg , in a tone of despair .
But her sister saw that she be touch by Nat 's trial , and hasten to add the triumph , that the victory might be complete , for success be always charm .
` This offer of Herr Bergmann be a good one , be n't it ? '
she ask , though Mr Laurie have already satisfy her on that point when Nat 's letter bring the news .
` Very fine in every way .
Nat will get capital drill in Bachmeister 's orchestra , see London in a delightful way , and if he suit come home with them , well start among the violin .
No great honour , but a sure thing and a step up .
I congratulate him , and he be very jolly over it , say , like the true lover he be : `` Tell Daisy ; be sure and tell her all about it . ''
I 'll leave that to you , Aunt Meg , and you can also break it gently to her that the old boy have a fine blond beard .
Very become ; hide his weak mouth , and give a noble air to his big eye and `` Mendelssohnian brow '' , a a gushing girl call it .
Ludmilla have a photo of it for you . '
This amuse them ; and they listen to many other interest bit of news which kind Franz , even in his own happiness , have not forget to remember for his friend 's sake .
He talk so well , and paint Nat 's patient and pathetic shift so vividly , that Mrs Meg be half win ; though if she have learn of the Minna episode and the fiddling in beer-gardens and street , she might not have relent so soon .
She store up all she hear , however , and , womanlike , promise herself a delicious talk with Daisy , in which she would allow herself to melt by degree , and perhaps change the doubtful ` We shall see ' to a cordial ` He have do well ; be happy , dear ' .
In the midst of this agreeable chat the sudden striking of a clock recall Mrs Jo from romance to reality , and she exclaim , with a clutch at her crimping-pins : ` My blessed people , you must eat and rest ; and I must dress , or receive in this disgraceful rig .
Meg , will you take Ludmilla and Mary upstairs and see to them ?
Franz know the way to the dining-room .
Fritz , come with me and be make tidy , for what with heat and emotion , we be both perfect wreck . '
Chapter 19 .
WHITE ROSES While the traveller refresh , and Mrs President struggle into her best gown , Josie run into the garden to gather flower for the bride .
The sudden arrival of these interesting being have quite enchant the romantic girl , and her head be full of heroic rescue , tender admiration , dramatic situation , and feminine wonder a to whether the lovely creature would wear their veil or not .
She be stand before a great bush of white rose , cull the most perfect for the bouquet which she mean to tie with the ribbon festoon over her arm , and lay on the toilette table of the new cousin , a a delicate attention .
A step startle her , and look up she saw her brother come down the path with folded arm , bent head , and the absent air of one absorbed in deep thought .
` Sophy Wackles , ' say the sharp child , with a superior smile , a she suck her thumb just prick by a too eager pull at the thorny branch .
` What be you at here , Mischief ? '
ask Demi , with an Irvingesque start , a he felt rather than saw a disturbing influence in his day-dream .
` Getting flower for `` our bride '' .
Do n't you wish you have one ? '
answer Josie , to whom the word ` mischief ' suggest her favourite amusement . '
A bride or a flower ? '
ask Demi calmly , though he eye the blooming bush a if it have a sudden and unusual interest for him .
` Both ; you get the one , and I 'll give you the other . '
` Wish I could ! '
and Demi pick a little bud , with a sigh that go to Josie 's warm heart .
` Why do n't you , then ?
It 's lovely to see people so happy .
Now 's a good time to do it if you ever mean to .
She will be go away for ever soon . '
` Who ? '
and Demi pull a half-opened bud , with a sudden colour in his own face ; which sign of confusion delight little Jo .
` Do n't be a hypocrite .
You know I mean Alice .
Now , Jack , I 'm fond of you , and want to help ; it 's so interesting -- all these lover and wedding and thing , and we ought to have our share .
So you take my advice and speak up like a man , and make sure of Alice before she go . '
Demi laugh at the seriousness of the small girl 's advice ; but he like it , and show that it suit him by say blandly , instead of snub her a usual : ` You be very kind , child .
Since you be so wise , could you give me a hint how I 'd better ` speak up ' , a you elegantly express it ? '
` Oh , well , there be various way , you know .
In play the lover go down on their knee ; but that 's awkward when they have long leg .
Ted never do it well , though I drill him for hour .
You could say , `` Be mine , be mine ! ''
like the old man who throw cucumber over the wall to Mrs Nickleby , if you want to be gay and easy ; or you could write a poetical pop .
You 've try it , I dare say . '
` But seriously , Jo , I do love Alice , and I think she know it .
I want to tell her so ; but I lose my head when I try , and do n't care to make a fool of myself .
Thought you might suggest some pretty way ; you read so much poetry and be so romantic . '
Demi try to express himself clearly , but forget his dignity and his usual reserve in the sweet perplexity of his love , and ask his little sister to teach him how to put the question which a single word can answer .
The arrival of his happy cousin have scatter all his wise plan and brave resolution to wait still longer .
The Christmas play have give him courage to hope , and the oration today have fill him with tender pride ; but the sight of those bloom bride and beam groom be too much for him , and he pant to secure his Alice without an hour 's delay .
Daisy be his confidante in all thing but this ; a brotherly feeling of sympathy have keep him from tell her his hope , because her own be forbidden .
His mother be rather jealous of any girl he admire ; but know that she like Alice , he love on and enjoy his secret alone , mean soon to tell her all about it .
Now suddenly Josie and the rose-bush seem to suggest a speedy end to his tender perplexity ; and he be move to accept her aid a the netted lion do that of the mouse . '
I think I 'll write , ' he be slowly begin , after a pause during which both be try to strike out a new and brilliant idea .
` I 've get it !
perfectly lovely !
just suit her , and you too , be a poet ! '
cry Josie , with a skip .
` What be it ?
Do n't be ridiculous , please , ' beg the bashful lover , eager , but afraid of this sharp-tongued bit of womanhood . '
I read in one of Miss Edgeworth 's story about a man who offer three rose to his lady -- a bud , a half-blown , and a full-blown rise .
I do n't remember which she take ; but it 's a pretty way ; and Alice know about it because she be there when we read it .
Here be all kind ; you 've get the two bud , pick the sweetest rise you can find , and I 'll tie them up and put them in her room .
She be come to dress with Daisy , so I can do it nicely . '
Demi muse a moment with his eye on the bridal bush , and a smile come over his face so unlike any it have ever wear before , that Josie be touch , and look away a if she have no right to see the dawn of the great passion which , while it last , make a young man as happy a a god .
` Do it , ' be all he say , and gather a full-blown rise to finish his floral love-message .
Charmed to have a finger in this romantic pie , Josie tie a graceful bow of ribbon about the stem , and finish her last nosegay with much content , while Demi write upon a card : DEAR ALICE , You know what the flower mean .
Will you wear one , or all tonight , and make me still prouder , fonder , and happy than I be ?
Yours entirely , JOHN Offering this to his sister , he say in a tone that make her feel the deep importance of her mission : ' I trust you , Jo .
This mean everything to me .
No joke , dear , if you love me . '
Josie 's answer be a kiss that promise all thing ; and then she run away to do her ` gentle spiriting ' , like Ariel , leave Demi to dream among the rose like Ferdinand .
Mary and Ludmilla be charm with their bouquet ; and the giver have the delight of put some of the flower into the dark hair and the light a she play maid at the toilette of ` our bride ' , which console her for a disappointment in the matter of veil .
No one help Alice dress ; for Daisy be in the next room with her mother ; and not even their loving eye saw the welcome which the little posy receive , nor the tear and smile and blush that come and go a she read the note and ponder what answer she should give .
There be no doubt about the one she wish to give ; but duty hold her back ; for at home there be an invalid mother and an old father .
She be need there , with all the help she could now bring by the acquirement four year of faithful study have give her .
Love look very sweet , and a home of her own with John a little heaven on earth ; but not yet .
And she slowly lay away the full-blown rise a she sit before the mirror , think over the great question of her life .
Was it wise and kind to ask him to wait , to bind him by any promise , or even to put into word the love and honour she felt for him ?
No ; it would be more generous to make the sacrifice alone , and spare him the pain of hope defer .
He be young ; he would forget ; and she would do her duty well , perhaps , if no impatient lover wait for her .
With eye that saw but dimly , and a hand that linger on the stem he have strip of thorn , she lay the half-blown flower by the rise , and ask herself if even the little bud might be wear .
It look very poor and pale beside the others ; yet be in the self-sacrificing mood which real love brings , she felt that even a small hope be too much to give , if she could not follow it up with more .
As she sit look sadly down on the symbol of an affection that grow dear every moment , she listen half unconsciously to the murmur of voice in the adjoining room .
Open window , thin partition , and the stillness of summer twilight make it impossible to help hearing , and in a few moment more she could not refrain ; for they be talk of John .
` So nice of Ludmilla to bring u all bottle of real German cologne !
Just what we need after this tiring day !
Be sure John have his !
He like it so ! '
` Yes , mother .
Did you see him jump up when Alice end her oration ?
He 'd have go to her if I have n't hold him back .
I do n't wonder he be pleased and proud .
I spoil my glove clap , and quite forgot my dislike of see woman on platform , she be so earnest and unconscious and sweet after the first moment . '
` Has he say anything to you , dear ? '
` No ; and I guess why .
The kind boy think it would make me unhappy .
It would n't .
But I know his way ; so I wait , and hope all will go well with him . '
` It must .
No girl in her sens would refuse our John , though he be n't rich , and never will be .
Daisy , I 've be long to tell you what he do with his money .
He tell me last night , and I 've have no time since to tell you .
He send poor young Barton to the hospital , and keep him there till his eye be save -- a costly thing to do .
But the man can work now and care for his old parent .
He be in despair , sick and poor , and too proud to beg ; and our dear boy find it out , and take every penny he have , and never tell even his mother till she make him . '
Alice do not hear what Daisy answer , for she be busy with her own emotion -- happy one now , to judge from the smile that shone in her eye and the decided gesture with which she put the little bud in her bosom , a if she say : ` He deserve some reward for that good deed , and he shall have it . '
Mrs Meg be speak , and still of John , when she could hear again : ` Some people would call it unwise and reckless , when John have so little ; but I think his first investment a safe and good one , for `` he who giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord '' ; and I be so pleased and proud , I would n't spoil it by offer him a penny . '
` It be his have nothing to offer that keep him silent , I think .
He be so honest , he wo n't ask till he have much to give .
But he forget that love be everything .
I know he 's rich in that ; I see and feel it ; and any woman should be glad to get it . '
` Right , dear .
I felt just so , and be willing to work and wait with and for my John . '
` So she will be , and I hope they will find it out .
But she be so dutiful and good , I 'm afraid she wo n't let herself be happy .
You would like it , mother ? '
` Heartily ; for a good , noble girl do n't live .
She be all I want for my son ; and I do n't mean to lose the dear , brave creature if I can help it .
Her heart be big enough for both love and duty ; and they can wait more happily if they do it together -- for wait they must , of course . '
` I 'm so glad his choice suit you , mother , and he be spar the sad sort of disappointment . '
Daisy 's voice break there ; and a sudden rustle , follow by a soft murmur , seem to tell that she be in her mother 's arm , seek and find comfort there .
Alice hear no more , and shut her window with a guilty feeling but a shining face ; for the proverb about listener fail here , and she have learn more than she dare to hope .
Things seem to change suddenly ; she felt that her heart be large enough for both love and duty ; she know now that she would be welcome by mother and sister ; and the memory of Daisy 's less happy fate , Nat 's weary probation , the long delay , and possible separation for ever -- all come before her so vividly that prudence seem cruelty ; self-sacrifice , sentimental folly ; and anything but the whole truth , disloyalty to her lover .
As she think thus , the half-blown rise go to join the bud ; and then , after a pause , she slowly kiss the perfect rise , and add it to the tell-tale group , say to herself with a sort of sweet solemnity , a if the word be a vow : ` I 'll love and work and wait with and for my John . '
It be well for her that Demi be absent when she steal down to join the guest who soon begin to flow through the house in a steady stream .
The new brightness which touch her usually thoughtful face be easily explain by the congratulation she receive a orator , and the slight agitation observable , when a fresh batch of gentleman approach soon pass , a none of them notice the flower she wear over a very happy heart .
Demi meantime be escort certain venerable personage about the college , and help his grandfather entertain them with discussion of the Socratic method of instruction , Pythagoras , Pestalozzi , Froebel , and the rest , whom he devoutly wish at the bottom of the Red Sea , and no wonder , for his head and his heart be full of love and rose , hope and fear .
He pilot the ` potent , grave , and reverend seignior ' safely down to Plumfield at last , and land them before his uncle and aunt Bhaer , who be receive in state , the one full of genuine delight in all men and thing , the other suffering martyrdom with a smile , a she stand shake hand after hand , and affect utter unconsciousness of the sad fact that ponderous Professor Plock have camp upon the train of her state and festival velvet gown .
With a long sigh of relief Demi glance about him for the beloved girl .
Most person would have look some time before any particular angel could be discover among the white-robed throng in parlour , hall , and study ; but his eye go -- like the needle to the pole -- to the corner where a smooth dark head , with it braided crown , rise like a queen 's , he think , above the crowd which surround her .
Yes , she have a flower at her throat ; one , two , oh , bless sight !
he saw it all across the room , and give a rapturous sigh which cause Miss Perry 's frizzled crop to wave with a sudden gust .
He do not see the rise , for it be hide by a fold of lace ; and it be well , perhaps , that bliss come by instalment , or he might have electrify the assembled multitude by fly to his idol , there be no Daisy to clutch him by the coat-tail .
A stout lady , thirst for information , seize him at that thrill moment , and he be force to point out celebrity with a saintly patience which deserve a good reward than it receive ; for a certain absence of mind and incoherence of speech at time cause the ungrateful dowager to whisper to the first friend she meet after he have escape : ' I saw no wine at any of the spread ; but it be plain that young Brooke have have too much .
Quite gentlemanly , but evidently a trifle intoxicate , my dear . '
Ah , so he be !
but with a diviner wine than any that ever sparkle at a class-day lunch , though many collegian know the taste of it ; and when the old lady be dispose of , he gladly turn to find the young one , bent on have a single word .
He saw her standing by the piano now , idly turn over music a she talk with several gentleman .
Hiding his impatience under an air of scholastic repose , Demi hover near , ready to advance when the happy moment come , wonder meantime why elderly person persist in absorb young one instead of sensibly sit in corner with their contemporary .
The elderly person in question retire at length , but only to be replace by two impetuous youth who beg Miss Heath to accompany them to Parnassus and join the dance .
Demi thirst for their blood , but be appease by hear George and Dolly say , a they linger a moment after her refusal : ` Really , you know , I 'm quite convert to co-education and almost wish I 'd remain here .
It give a grace to study , a sort of relish even to Greek to see charming girl at it , ' say Stuffy , who find the feast of learn so dry , any sauce be welcome ; and he felt a if he have discover a new one .
` Yes , by Jove !
we fellows will have to look out or you 'll carry off all the honour .
You be superb today , and hold u all like magic , though it be so hot there , I really think I could n't have stand it for anyone else , ' add Dolly , labour to be gallant and really offer a touching proof of devotion ; for the heat melt his collar , take the curl out of his hair , and ruin his glove .
` There be room for all ; and if you will leave u the book , we will cheerfully yield the baseball , boat , dance , and flirting , which seem to be the branch you prefer , ' answered Alice sweetly .
` Ah , now you be too hard upon u !
We ca n't grind all the time and you lady do n't seem to mind take a turn at the two latter `` branch '' you mention , ' return Dolly , with a glance at George which plainly say , ' I have her there . '
` Some of u do in our first year .
Later we give up childish thing , you see .
Do n't let me keep you from Parnassus ' ; and a smile nod dismiss them , smart under the bitter consciousness of youth .
` You get it there , Doll .
Better not try to fence with these superior girl .
Sure to be rout , horse , foot , and dragoon , ' say Stuffy , lumber away , somewhat cross with too many spread .
` So deuced sarcastic !
Do n't believe she 's much old than we be .
Girls grow up quicker , so she need n't put on air and talk like a grandmother , ' mutter Dolly , feel that he have sacrifice his kid upon the altar of an ungrateful Pallas .
` Come along and let 's find something to eat .
I 'm faint with so much talk .
Old Plock corner me and make my head spin with Kant and Hegel and that lot . ' '
I promise Dora West I 'd give her a turn .
Must look her up ; she 's a jolly little thing , and do n't bother about anything but keep in step . '
And arm in arm the boy stroll away , leave Alice to read music as diligently a if society have indeed no charm for her .
As she bend to turn a page , the eager young man behind the piano saw the rise and be strike speechless with delight .
A moment he gaze , then hasten to seize the coveted place before a new detachment of bore arrive .
` Alice , I ca n't believe it -- do you understand -- how shall I ever thank you ? '
murmur Demi , bend a if he , too , read the song , not a note or word of which do he see , however .
` Hush !
not now .
I understand -- I do n't deserve it -- we be too young , we must wait , but -- I 'm very proud and happy , John ! '
What would have happen after that tender whisper I tremble to think , if Tom Bangs have not come bustle up , with the cheerful remark : ` Music ?
just the thing .
People be thin out , and we all want a little refreshment .
My brain fairly reel with the ` ology and ` ism I 've hear discussed tonight .
Yes , give u this ; sweet thing !
Scotch song be always charm . '
Demi glower ; but the obtuse boy never saw it , and Alice , feel that this would be a safe vent for sundry unruly emotion , sit down at once , and sing the song which give her answer well than she could have do : BIDE A WEE ` The puir auld folk at home , ye mind , Are frail and fail sair ; And weel I ken they 'd miss me , lad , Gin I come hame nae mair .
The grist be out , the time be hard , The kine be only three ; I canna leave the auld folk now .
We 'd better bide a wee . '
I fear me sair they 're fail baith ; For when I sit apart , They talk o ' Heaven so earnestly , It well nigh break my heart .
So , laddie , dinna urge me now , It surely winna be ; I canna leave the auld folk yet .
We 'd better bide a wee . '
The room be very still before the first verse end ; and Alice skip the next , fear she could not get through ; for John 's eye be on her , show that he know she sing for him and let the plaintive little ballad tell what her reply must be .
He take it a she mean it , and smile at her so happily that her heart get the good of her voice , and she rise abruptly , say something about the heat .
` Yes , you be tire ; come out and rest , my dear ' ; and with a masterful air Demi take her into the starlight , leave Tom to stare after them wink a if a sky-rocket have suddenly go off under his nose .
` Bless my soul !
the Deacon really mean business last summer and never tell me .
Wo n't Dora laugh ? '
And Tom depart in hot haste to impart and exult over his discovery .
What be say in the garden be never exactly know ; but the Brooke family sit up very late that night , and any curious eye at the window would have see Demi receive the homage of his womankind a he tell his little romance .
Josie take great credit to herself in the matter , insist that she have make the match ; Daisy be full of the sweet sympathy and joy , and Mrs Meg so happy that when Jo have go to dream of bridal veil , and Demi sit in his room blissfully play the air of ` Bide a Wee ' , she have her talk about Nat , end with her arm round her dutiful daughter and these welcome word a her reward : ` Wait till Nat come home , and then my good girl shall wear white rose too . '
Chapter 20 .
LIFE FOR LIFE The summer day that follow be full of rest and pleasure for young and old , a they do the honour of Plumfield to their happy guest .
While Franz and Emil be busy with the affair of Uncle Hermann and Captain Hardy , Mary and Ludmilla make friend everywhere ; for , though very unlike , both be excellent and charming girl .
Mrs Meg and Daisy find the German bride a Hausfrau after their own heart , and have delightful time learn new dish , hear about the semi-yearly wash and the splendid linen-room at Hamburg , or discuss domestic life in all it branch .
Ludmilla not only taught , but learn , many thing , and go home with many new and useful idea in her blonde head .
Mary have see so much of the world that she be unusually lively for an English girl ; while her various accomplishment make her a most agreeable companion .
Much good sense give her ballast ; and the late experience of danger and happiness add a sweet gravity at time , which contrast well with her natural gaiety .
Mrs Jo be quite satisfied with Emil 's choice , and felt sure this true and tender pilot would bring him safe to port through fair or stormy weather .
She have fear that Franz would settle down into a comfortable , moneymaking burgher , and be content with that ; but she soon saw that his love of music and his placid Ludmilla put much poetry into his busy life , and keep it from be too prosaic .
So she felt at rest about these boy , and enjoy their visit with real , maternal satisfaction ; part with them in September most regretfully , yet hopefully , a they sail away to the new life that lay before them .
Demi 's engagement be confide to the immediate family only , a both be pronounce too young to do anything but love and wait .
They be so happy that time seem to stand still for them , and after a blissful week they part bravely -- Alice to home duty , with a hope that sustain and cheer her through many trial ; and John to his business , full of a new ardour which make all thing possible when such a reward be offer .
Daisy rejoice over them , and be never tire of hear her brother 's plan for the future .
Her own hope soon make her what she use to be -- a cheery , busy creature , with a smile , kind word , and help hand for all ; and a she go sing about the house again , her mother felt that the right remedy for past sadness have be find .
The dear Pelican still have doubt and fear , but keep them wisely to herself , prepare sundry search test to be apply when Nat come home , and keep a sharp eye on the letter from London ; for some mysterious hint have fly across the sea , and Daisy 's content seem reflect in Nat 's present cheerful state of mind .
Having pass through the Werther period , and try a little Faust -- of which experience he speak to his Marguerite a if it have include an acquaintance with Mephistopheles , Blocksburg , and Auerbach 's wine-cellar -- he now felt that he be a Wilhelm Meister , serve his apprenticeship to the great master of life .
As she know the truth of his small sin and honest repentance , Daisy only smile at the mixture of love and philosophy he send her , know that it be impossible for a young man to live in Germany without catch the German spirit .
` His heart be all right ; and his head will soon grow clear when he get out of the fog of tobacco , beer , and metaphysics he 's be live in .
England will wake up his common sense , and good salt air blow his little folly all away , ' say Mrs Jo , much please with the good prospect of her violinist -- whose return be delay till spring , to his private regret , but professional advancement .
Josie have a month with Miss Cameron at the seaside , and throw herself so heartily into the lesson give her that her energy , promise , and patience lay the foundation of a friendship which be of infinite value to her in the busy , brilliant year to come ; for little Jo 's instinct be right ; and the dramatic talent of the Marches be to blossom by and by into an actress , virtuous , and beloved .
Tom and his Dora be peacefully amble altar-ward ; for Bangs senior be so afraid his son would change his mind again and try a third profession , that he gladly consent to an early marriage , a a sort of anchor to hold the mercurial Thomas fast .
Aforesaid Thomas could not complain of cold shoulder now ; for Dora be a most devoted and adore little mate , and make life so pleasant to him that his gift for get into scrape seem lose , and he bid fair to become a thriving man , with undeniable talent for the business he have choose .
` We shall be marry in the autumn , and live with my father for a while .
The governor be get on , you know , and my wife and I must look after him .
Later we shall have an establishment of our own , ' be a favourite speech of his about this time , and usually receive with smile ; for the idea of Tommy Bangs at the head of an ` establishment ' be irresistibly funny to all who know him .
Things be in this flourishing condition , and Mrs Jo be begin to think her trial be over for that year , when a new excitement come .
Several postal card have arrive at long interval from Dan , who give them ` Care of M. Mason , etc. ' , a his address .
By this mean he be able to gratify his longing for home news , and to send brief message to quiet their surprise at his delay in settling .
The last one , which come in September , be date ` Montana ' , and simply say : Here at last , try mining again ; but not go to stay long .
All sort of luck .
Gave up the farm idea .
Tell plan soon .
Well , busy , and very happy .
D. K .
If they have know what the heavy dash under ` happy ' meant , that postal would have be a very eloquent bit of pasteboard ; for Dan be free , and have go straight away to the liberty he pant for .
Meeting an old friend by accident , he oblige him at a pinch by act a overseer for a time , find the society even of rough miner very sweet , and something in the muscular work wonderfully pleasant , after be cooped up in the brush-shop so long .
He love to take a pick and wrestle with rock and earth till he be weary -- which be very soon ; for that year of captivity have tell upon his splendid physique .
He long to go home , but wait week after week to get the prison taint off him and the haggard look out of his face .
Meanwhile he make friend of master and men ; and a no one know his story , he take his place again in the world gratefully and gladly -- with little pride now , and no plan but to do some good somewhere , and efface the past .
Mrs Jo be have a grand clearing-out of her desk one October day , while the rain pour outside , and peace reign in her mansion .
Coming across the postals , she ponder over them , and then put them carefully away in the drawer label ` Boys ' Letters ' , say to herself , a she bundle eleven request for autograph into the waste-paper basket : ` It be quite time for another card , unless he be come to tell his plan .
I 'm really curious to know what he have be about all this year , and how he 's get on now . '
That last wish be grant within an hour ; for Ted come rush in , with a newspaper in one hand , a collapsed umbrella in the other , and a face full of excitement , announce , all in one breathless jumble : ` Mine cave in -- twenty men shut up -- no way out -- wive cry -- water rising -- Dan know the old shaft -- risk his life -- get 'em out -- most kill -- paper full of it -- I know he 'd be a hero -- hurray for old Dan ! '
` What ?
Where ?
When ?
Who ?
Stop roaring , and let me read ! '
command his mother , entirely bewilder .
Relinquishing the paper , Ted allow her to read for herself , with frequent interruption from him -- and Rob , who soon follow , eager for the tale .
It be nothing new ; but courage and devotion always stir generous heart , and win admiration ; so the account be both graphic and enthusiastic ; and the name of Daniel Kean , the brave man who save the life of others at the risk of his own , be on many lip that day .
Very proud be the face of these friend a they read how their Dan be the only one who , in the first panic of the accident , remember the old shaft that lead into the mine -- wall up , but the only hope of escape , if the men could be get out before the rise water drown them ; how he be lower down alone , tell the others to keep back till he saw if it be safe ; how he hear the poor fellow pick desperately for their life on the other side , and by knock and call guide them to the right spot ; then head the rescue party , and work like a hero , get the men out in time .
On be draw up last of all , the worn rope break , and he have a terrible fall , be much hurt , but be still alive .
How the grateful woman kiss his blackened face and bloody hand , a the men bore him away in triumph , and the owner of the mine promise a handsome reward , if he live to receive it !
` He must live ; he shall , and come home to be nurse as soon a he can stir , if I go and bring him myself !
I always know he 'd do something fine and brave , if he do n't get shot or hung for some wild prank instead , ' cry Mrs Jo , much excite .
` Do go , and take me with you , Mum .
I ought to be the one , Dan 's so fond of me and I of him , ' begin Ted , feel that this would be an expedition after his own heart .
Before his mother could reply , Mr Laurie come in , with almost a much noise and flurry a Teddy the second , exclaim a he wave the evening paper : ` Seen the news , Jo ?
What do you think ?
Shall I go off at once , and see after that brave boy ? ' '
I wish you would .
But the thing may not be all true -- rumour lie so .
Perhaps a few hour will bring an entirely new version of the story . '
` I 've telephone to Demi for all he can find out ; and if it 's true , I 'll go at once .
Should like the trip .
If he 's able , I 'll bring him home ; if not , I 'll stay and see to him .
He 'll pull through .
Dan will never die of a fall on his head .
He 's get nine life , and not lose half of them yet . '
` If you go , uncle , may n't I go with you ?
I 'm just spoil for a journey ; and it would be such lark to go out there with you , and see the mine and Dan , and hear all about it , and help .
I can nurse .
Ca n't I , Rob ? '
cry Teddy , in his most wheedlesome tone .
` Pretty well .
But if mother ca n't spare you , I 'm ready if uncle need anyone , ' answer Rob , in his quiet way , look much fitter for the trip than excitable Ted . '
I ca n't spare either of you .
My boy get into trouble , unless I keep them close at home .
I 've no right to hold the others ; but I wo n't let you out of my sight , or something will happen .
Never saw such a year , with wreck and wedding and flood and engagement , and every sort of catastrophe ! '
exclaim Mrs Jo .
` If you deal in girl and boy , you must expect this sort of thing , ma'am .
The bad be over , I hope , till these lad begin to go off .
Then I 'll stand by you ; for you 'll need every kind of support and comfort , specially if Ted bolt early , ' laugh Mr Laurie , enjoy her lamentation . '
I do n't think anything can surprise me now ; but I be anxious about Dan , and feel that someone have well go to him .
It 's a rough place out there , and he may need careful nursing .
Poor lad , he seem to get a good many hard knock !
But perhaps he need them a `` a mellerin ' process '' , a Hannah use to say . '
` We shall hear from Demi before long , and then I 'll be off . '
With which cheerful promise Mr Laurie depart ; and Ted , find his mother firm , soon follow , to coax his uncle to take him .
Further inquiry confirm and add interest to the news .
Mr Laurie be off at once ; and Ted go into town with him , still vainly implore to be take to his Dan .
He be absent all day ; but his mother say , calmly : ` Only a fit of the sulk because he be thwart .
He 's safe with Tom or Demi , and will come home hungry and meek at night .
I know him . '
But she soon find that she could still be surprise ; for even bring no Ted , and no one have see him .
Mr Bhaer be just set off to find his lost son , when a telegram arrive , date at one of the way-stations on Mr Laurie 's route : Found Ted in the car .
Take him along .
Write tomorrow .
T. LAURENCE ` Ted bolt sooner than you expect , mother .
Never mind -- uncle will take good care of him , and Dan be very glad to see him , ' say Rob , a Mrs Jo sit , try to realize that her youngest be actually on his way to the wild West .
` Disobedient boy !
He shall be severely punish , if I ever get him again .
Laurie wink at this prank ; I know he do .
Just like him .
Wo n't the two rascal have a splendid time ?
Wish I be with them !
Do n't believe that crazy boy take even a night-gown with him , or an overcoat .
Well , there will be two patient for u to nurse when they get back , if they ever do .
Those reckless express train always go down precipice , and burn up , or telescope .
Oh !
my Ted , my precious boy , how can I let him go so far away from me ? '
And mother-like , Mrs Jo forget the threatened chastisement in tender lamentation over the happy scapegrace , now whiz across the continent in high feather at the success of his first revolt .
Mr Laurie be much amuse at his insisting that those word , ` when Ted bolt ' , put the idea into his head ; and therefore the responsibility rest upon his shoulder .
He assume it kindly from the moment he come upon the runaway asleep in a car , with no visible luggage but a bottle of wine for Dan and a blacking-brush for himself ; and a Mrs Jo suspect , the ` two rascal ' do have a splendid time .
Penitent letter arrive in due season , and the irate parent soon forget to chide in their anxiety about Dan , who be very ill , and do not know his friend for several day .
Then he begin to mend ; and everyone forgive the bad boy when he proudly report that the first conscious word Dan say be : ` Hallo , Ted ! '
with a smile of pleasure at see a familiar face bent over him .
` Glad he go , and I wo n't scold any more .
Now , what shall we put in the box for Dan ? '
And Mrs Jo work off her impatience to get hold of the invalid by send comfort enough for a hospital .
Cheering account soon begin to come , and at length Dan be pronounce able to travel , but seem in no haste to go home , though never tire of hear his nurse talk of it .
` Dan be strangely alter , ' write Laurie to Jo ; ` not by this illness alone , but by something which have evidently go before .
I do n't know what , and leave you to ask ; but from his raving when delirious I fear he have be in some serious trouble the past year .
He seem ten year older , but improve , quieter , and so grateful to u .
It be pathetic to see the hunger in his eye a they rest on Ted , a if he could n't see enough of him .
He say Kansas be a failure , but ca n't talk much ; so I bide my time .
The people here love him very much , and he care for that sort of thing now ; use to scorn any show of emotion , you know ; now he want everyone to think well of him , and ca n't do enough to win affection and respect .
I may be all wrong .
You will soon find out .
Ted be in clover , and the trip have do him a world of good .
Let me take him to Europe when we go ?
Apron-strings do n't agree with him any good than they do with me when I propose to run away to Washington with you some century ago .
Are n't you sorry you do n't ? '
This private letter set Mrs Jo 's lively fancy in a ferment , and she imagine every know crime , affliction , and complication which could possibly have befall Dan .
He be too feeble to be worry with question now , but she promise herself most interesting revelation when she get him safe at home ; for the ` firebrand ' be her most interesting boy .
She beg him to come , and spend more time in compose a letter that should bring him , than she do over the most thrilling episode in her ` work ' .
No one but Dan saw the letter ; but it do bring him , and one November day Mr Laurie help a feeble man out of a carriage at the door of Plumfield , and Mother Bhaer receive the wanderer like a recovered son ; while Ted , in a disreputable-looking hat and an astonishing pair of boot , perform a sort of war-dance round the interesting group .
` Right upstairs and rest ; I 'm nurse now , and this ghost must eat before he talk to anyone , ' command Mrs Jo , try not to show how shocked she be at this shorn and shaven , gaunt and pallid shadow of the stalwart man she part with .
He be quite content to obey , and lay on the long lounge in the room prepare for him , look about as tranquilly a a sick child restore to it own nursery and mother 's arm , while his new nurse fed and refresh him , bravely control the question that burn upon her tongue .
Being weak and weary , he soon fell asleep ; and then she steal away to enjoy the society of the ` rascal ' , whom she scold and pet , pump and praise , to her heart 's content .
` Jo , I think Dan have commit some crime and suffer for it , ' say Mr Laurie , when Ted have depart to show his boot and tell glow tale of the danger and delight of the miner ' life to his mate .
` Some terrible experience have come to the lad , and break his spirit .
He be quite out of his head when we arrive , and I take the watching , so I hear more of those sad wandering than anyone else .
He talk of the `` warden '' , some trail , a dead man , and Blair and Mason , and would keep offer me his hand , ask me if I would take it and forgive him .
Once , when he be very wild , I hold his arm , and he quiet in a moment , implore me not to `` put the handcuff on '' .
I declare , it be quite awful sometimes to hear him in the night talk of old Plum and you , and beg to be let out and go home to die . '
` He be n't go to die , but live to repent of anything he may have do ; so do n't harrow me up with these dark hint , Teddy .
I do n't care if he 's break the Ten Commandments , I 'll stand by him , and so will you , and we 'll set him on his foot and make a good man of him yet .
I know he 's not spoil , by the look in his poor face .
Do n't say a word to anyone , and I 'll have the truth before long , ' answer Mrs Jo , still loyal to her bad boy , though much afflict by what she have hear .
For some day Dan rest , and saw few people ; then good care , cheerful surroundings , and the comfort of be at home begin to tell , and he seem more like himself , though still very silent a to his late experience , plead the doctor 's order not to talk much .
Everyone want to see him ; but he shrink from any but old friend , and ` would n't lionize worth a cent ' , Ted say , much disappoint that he could not show off his brave Dan .
` Was n't a man there who would n't have do the same , so why make a row over me ? '
ask the hero , feel more ashamed than proud of the broken arm , which look so interesting in a sling .
` But be n't it pleasant to think that you save twenty life , Dan , and give husband , son , and father back to the woman who love them ? '
ask Mrs Jo one evening a they be alone together after several caller have be send away .
` Pleasant !
it 's all that keep me alive , I do believe ; yes , I 'd rather have do it than be make president or any other big bug in the world .
No one know what a comfort it be to think I 've save twenty men to more than pay for -- ' There Dan stop short , have evidently speak out of some strong emotion to which his hearer have no key . '
I think you 'd feel so .
It be a splendid thing to save life at the risk of one 's own , a you do , and nearly lose it , ' begin Mrs Jo , wish he have go on with that impulsive speech which be so like his old manner . '
`` He that loseth his life shall gain it '' , ' mutter Dan , star at the cheerful fire which light the room , and shone on his thin face with a ruddy glow .
Mrs Jo be so startle at hear such word from his lip that she exclaim joyfully : ` Then you do read the little book I give you , and keep your promise ? ' '
I read it a good deal after a while .
I do n't know much yet , but I 'm ready to learn ; and that 's something . '
` It 's everything .
Oh , my dear , tell me about it !
I know something lie heavy on your heart ; let me help you bear it , and so make the burden lighter . ' '
I know it would ; I want to tell ; but some thing even you could n't forgive ; and if you let go of me , I 'm afraid I ca n't keep afloat . '
` Mothers can forgive anything !
Tell me all , and be sure that I will never let you go , though the whole world should turn from you . '
Mrs Jo take one of the big waste hand in both of hers and hold it fast , wait silently till that sustain touch warm poor Dan 's heart , and give him courage to speak .
Sitting in his old attitude , with his head in his hand , he slowly tell it all , never once look up till the last word leave his lip .
` Now you know ; can you forgive a murderer , and keep a jail-bird in your house ? '
Her only answer be to put her arm about him , and lay the shorn head on her breast , with eye so full of tear they could but dimly see the hope and fear that make his own so tragical .
That be good than any word ; and poor Dan clung to her in speechless gratitude , feel the blessedness of mother love -- that divine gift which comfort , purifies , and strengthen all who seek it .
Two or three great , bitter drop be hide in the little woollen shawl where Dan 's cheek rest , and no one ever know how soft and comfortable it felt to him after the hard pillow he have know so long .
Suffering of both mind and body have break will and pride , and the lift burden bring such a sense of relief that he pause a moment to enjoy it in dumb delight .
` My poor boy , how you have suffer all this year , when we think you free a air !
Why do n't you tell u , Dan , and let u help you ?
Did you doubt your friend ? '
ask Mrs Jo , forget all other emotion in sympathy , a she lift up the hidden face , and look reproachfully into the great hollow eye that meet her own frankly now . '
I be ashamed .
I try to bear it alone rather than shock and disappoint you , a I know I have , though you try not to show it .
Do n't mind ; I must get use to it ' ; and Dan 's eye drop again a if they could not bear to see the trouble and dismay his confession paint on his best friend 's face . '
I be shocked and disappoint by the sin , but I be also very glad and proud and grateful that my sinner have repent , atone , and be ready to profit by the bitter lesson .
No one but Fritz and Laurie need ever know the truth ; we owe it to them , and they will feel a I do , ' answer Mrs Jo , wisely think that entire frankness would be a good tonic than too much sympathy .
` No , they wo n't ; men never forgive like woman .
But it 's right .
Please tell 'em for me , and get it over .
Mr Laurence know it , I guess .
I blab when my wit be go ; but he be very kind all the same .
I can bear their knowing ; but oh , not Ted and the girl ! '
Dan clutch her arm with such an implore face that she hasten to assure him no one should know except the two old friend , and he calm down as if ashamed of his sudden panic .
` It be n't murder , mind you , it be in self-defence ; he draw first , and I have to hit him .
Did n't mean to kill him ; but it do n't worry me as much a it ought , I 'm afraid .
I 've more than pay for it , and such a rascal be well out of the world than in it , show boy the way to hell .
Yes , I know you think that 's awful in me ; but I ca n't help it .
I hate a scamp a I do a skulking coyote , and always want to get a shot at 'em .
Perhaps it would have be well if he have kill me ; my life be spoil . '
All the old prison gloom seem to settle like a black cloud on Dan 's face a he speak , and Mrs Jo be frighten at the glimpse it give her of the fire through which he have pass to come out alive , but scar for life .
Hoping to turn his mind to happy thing , she say cheerfully : ` No , it be n't ; you have learn to value it more and use it good for this trial .
It be not a lost year , but one that may prove the most helpful of any you ever know .
Try to think so , and begin again ; we will help , and have all the more confidence in you for this failure .
We all do the same and struggle on . ' '
I never can be what I be .
I feel about sixty , and do n't care for anything now I 've get here .
Let me stay till I 'm on my leg , then I 'll clear out and never trouble you any more , ' say Dan despondently .
` You be weak and low in your mind ; that will pass , and by and by you will go to your missionary work among the Indians with all the old energy and the new patience , self-control , and knowledge you have gain .
Tell me more about that good chaplain and Mary Mason and the lady whose chance word help you so much .
I want to know all about the trial of my poor boy . '
Won by her tender interest , Dan brighten up and talk on till he have pour out all the story of that bitter year , and felt well for the load he lift off .
If he have know how it weigh upon his hearer 's heart , he would have hold his peace ; but she hide her sorrow till she have send him to bed , comfort and calm ; then she cry her heart out , to the great dismay of Fritz and Laurie , till they hear the tale and could mourn with her ; after which they all cheer up and take counsel together how best to help this bad of all the ` catastrophe ' the year have bring them .
Chapter 21 .
ASLAUGA 'S KNIGHT It be curious to see the change which come over Dan after that talk .
A weight seem off his mind ; and though the old impetuous spirit flash out at time , he seem intent on try to show his gratitude and love and honour to these true friend by a new humility and confidence very sweet to them , very helpful to him .
After hear the story from Mrs Jo , the Professor and Mr Laurie make no allusion to it beyond the hearty hand-grasp , the look of compassion , the brief word of good cheer in which men convey sympathy , and a redoubled kindness which leave no doubt of pardon .
Mr Laurie begin at once to interest influential person in Dan 's mission , and set in motion the machinery which need so much oiling before anything can be do where Government be concern .
Mr Bhaer , with the skill of a true teacher , give Dan 's hungry mind something to do , and help him understand himself by carry on the good chaplain 's task so paternally that the poor fellow often say he felt a if he have find a father .
The boy take him to drive , and amuse him with their prank and plan ; while the woman , old and young , nursed and pet him till he felt like a sultan with a crowd of devoted slave , obedient to his light wish .
A very little of this be enough for Dan , who have a masculine horror of ` molly-coddling ' , and so brief an acquaintance with illness that he rebel against the doctor 's order to keep quiet ; and it take all Mrs Jo 's authority and the girl ' ingenuity to keep him from leave his sofa long before strain back and wound head be well .
Daisy cook for him ; Nan attend to his medicine ; Josie read aloud to while away the long hour of inaction that hung so heavily on his hand ; while Bess bring all her picture and cast to amuse him , and , at his special desire , set up a modelling-stand in his parlour and begin to mould the buffalo head he give her .
Those afternoon seem the pleasant part of his day ; and Mrs Jo , busy in her study close by , could see the friendly trio and enjoy the pretty picture they make .
The girl be much flatter by the success of their effort , and exert themselves to be very entertaining , consult Dan 's mood with the feminine tact most woman creature learn before they be out of pinafore .
When he be gay , the room rang with laughter ; when gloomy , they read or work in respectful silence till their sweet patience cheer him up again ; and when in pain they hover over him like ' a couple of angel ' , a he say .
He often call Josie ` little mother ' , but Bess be always ` Princess ' ; and his manner to the two cousin be quite different .
Josie sometimes fret him with her fussy way , the long play she like to read , and the maternal scolding she administer when he break the rule ; for have a lord of creation in her power be so delightful to her that she would have rule him with a rod of iron if he have submit .
To Bess , in her gentler ministration , he never show either impatience or weariness , but obey her least word , exert himself to seem well in her presence , and take such interest in her work that he lay look at her with unwearied eye ; while Josie read to him in her best style unheeded .
Mrs Jo observe this , and call them ` Una and the Lion ' , which suit them very well , though the lion 's mane be shorn , and Una never try to bridle him .
The elder lady do their part in provide delicacy and supply all his want ; but Mrs Meg be busy at home , Mrs Amy prepare for the trip to Europe in the spring , and Mrs Jo hover on the brink of a ` vortex ' -- for the forthcoming book have be sadly delay by the late domestic event .
As she sit at her desk , settle paper or meditatively nibble her pen while wait for the divine afflatus to descend upon her , she often forget her fictitious hero and heroine in study the live model before her , and thus by chance look , word , and gesture discover a little romance unsuspected by anyone else .
The portiere between the room be usually draw aside , give a view of the group in the large bay-window -- Bess at one side , in her grey blouse , busy with her tool ; Josie at the other side with her book ; and between , on the long couch , prop with many cushion , lay Dan in a many-hued eastern dressing-gown present by Mr Laurie and wear to please the girl , though the invalid much prefer an old jacket ` with no confounded tail to bother over ' .
He face Mrs Jo 's room , but never seem to see her , for his eye be on the slender figure before him , with the pale winter sunshine touch her golden head , and the delicate hand that shape the clay so deftly .
Josie be just visible , rock violently in a little chair at the head of the couch , and the steady murmur of her girlish voice be usually the only sound that break the quiet of the room , unless a sudden discussion arise about the book or the buffalo .
Something in the big eye , big and blacker than ever in the thin white face , fix , so steadily on one object , have a sort of fascination for Mrs Jo after a time , and she watch the change in them curiously ; for Dan 's mind be evidently not on the story , and he often forget to laugh or exclaim at the comic or exciting crisis .
Sometimes they be soft and wistful , and the watcher be very glad that neither damsel catch that dangerous look for when they speak it vanish ; sometimes it be full of eager fire , and the colour come and go rebelliously , in spite of his attempt to hide it with an impatient gesture of hand or head ; but oftenest it be dark , and sad , and stern , a if those gloomy eye look out of captivity at some forbidden light or joy .
This expression come so often that it worry Mrs Jo , and she long to go and ask him what bitter memory overshadow those quiet hour .
She know that his crime and it punishment must lie heavy on his mind ; but youth , and time , and new hope would bring comfort , and help to wear away the first sharpness of the prison brand .
It lift at other time , and seem almost forget when he joke with the boy , talk with old friend , or enjoy the first snow a he drive out every fair day .
Why should the shadow always fall so darkly on him in the society of these innocent and friendly girl ?
They never seem to see it , and if either look or speak , a quick smile come like a sunburst through the cloud to answer them .
So Mrs Jo go on watching , wondering , and discovering , till accident confirm her fear .
Josie be call away one day , and Bess , tire of work , offer to take her place if he care for more reading . '
I do ; your reading suit me good than Jo 's .
She go so fast my stupid head get in a muddle and soon begin to ache .
Do n't tell her ; she 's a dear little soul , and so good to sit here with a bear like me . '
The smile be ready a Bess go to the table for a new book , the last story be finish .
` You be not a bear , but very good and patient , we think .
It be always hard for a man to be shut up , mamma say , and must be terrible for you , who have always be so free . '
If Bess have not be read title she would have see Dan shrink a if her last word hurt him .
He make no answer ; but other eye saw and understood why he look a if he would have like to spring up and rush away for one of his long race up the hill , a he use to do when the longing for liberty grow uncontrollable .
Moved by a sudden impulse , Mrs Jo catch up her work-basket and go to join her neighbour , feel that a non-conductor might be need ; for Dan look like a thundercloud full of electricity .
` What shall we read , Aunty ?
Dan do n't seem to care .
You know his taste ; tell me something quiet and pleasant and short .
Josie will be back soon , ' say Bess , still turn over the book pile on the centre-table .
Before Mrs Jo could answer , Dan pull a shabby little volume from under his pillow , and hand it to her say : ` Please read the third one ; it 's short and pretty -- I 'm fond of it . '
The book open at the right place , a if the third story have be often read , and Bess smile a she saw the name .
` Why , Dan , I should n't think you 'd care for this romantic German tale .
There be fight in it ; but it be very sentimental , if I remember rightly . ' '
I know it ; but I 've read so few story , I like the simple one best .
Had nothing else to read sometimes ; I guess I know it all by heart , and never seem to be tire of those fight fellow , and the fiend and angel and lovely lady .
You read `` Aslauga 's Knight '' , and see if you do n't like it .
Edwald be rather too soft for my fancy ; but Froda be first-rate and the spirit with the golden hair always remind me of you . '
As Dan speak Mrs Jo settle herself where she could watch him in the glass , and Bess take a large chair face him , say , a she put up her hand to retie the ribbon that hold the cluster of thick , soft curl at the back of her head : ' I hope Aslauga 's hair be n't as troublesome a mine , for it 's always tumble down .
I 'll be ready in a minute . '
` Do n't tie it up ; please let it hang .
I love to see it shine that way .
It will rest your head , and be just right for the story , Goldilocks , ' plead Dan , use the childish name and look more like his boyish self than he have do for many a day .
Bess laugh , shake down her pretty hair , and begin to read , glad to hide her face a little ; for compliment make her shy , no matter who pay them .
Dan listen intently on ; and Mrs Jo , with eye that go often from her needle to the glass , could see , without turn , how he enjoy every word a if it have more meaning for him than for the other listener .
His face brighten wonderfully , and soon wear the look that come when anything brave or beautiful inspired and touch his better self .
It be Fouque 's charm story of the knight Froda , and the fair daughter of Sigurd , who be a sort of spirit , appear to her lover in hour of danger and trial , as well a triumph and joy , till she become his guide and guard , inspire him with courage , nobleness , and truth , lead him to great deed in the field , sacrifice for those he love , and victory over himself by the gleaming of her golden hair , which shine on him in battle , dream , and peril by day and night , till after death he find the lovely spirit wait to receive and to reward him .
Of all the story in the book this be the last one would have suppose Dan would like best , and even Mrs Jo be surprise at his perceive the moral of the tale through the delicate imagery and romantic language by which it be illustrate .
But a she look and listen she remember the streak of sentiment and refinement which lay conceal in Dan like the gold vein in a rock , make him quick to feel and to enjoy fine colour in a flower , grace in an animal , sweetness in woman , heroism in men , and all the tender tie that bind heart to heart ; though he be slow to show it , have no word to express the taste and instinct which he inherit from his mother .
Suffering of soul and body have tame his stronger passion , and the atmosphere of love and pity now surround him purified and warm his heart till it begin to hunger for the food neglect or deny so long .
This be plainly write in his too expressive face , a , fancy it unseen , he let it tell the longing after beauty , peace , and happiness embody for him in the innocent fair girl before him .
The conviction of this sad yet natural fact come to Mrs Jo with a pang , for she felt how utterly hopeless such a longing be ; since light and darkness be not far apart than snow-white Bess and sin-stained Dan .
No dream of such a thing disturb the young girl , a her entire unconsciousness plainly show .
But how long would it be before the eloquent eye betray the truth ?
And then what disappointment for Dan , what dismay for Bess , who be a cool and high and pure a her own marble , and shun all thought of love with maidenly reserve .
` How hard everything be make for my poor boy !
How can I spoil his little dream , and take away the spirit of good he be begin to love and long for ?
When my own dear lad be safely settle I 'll never try another , for these thing be heart-breaking , and I ca n't manage any more , ' think Mrs Jo , a she put the lining into Teddy 's coat-sleeve upside down , so perplexed and grieve be she at this new catastrophe .
The story be soon do , and a Bess shake back her hair , Dan ask as eagerly a a boy : ` Do n't you like it ? '
` Yes , it 's very pretty , and I see the meaning of it ; but Undine be always my favourite . '
` Of course , that 's like you -- lily and pearl and soul and pure water .
Sintram use to be mine ; but I take a fancy to this when I be -- ahem -- rather down on my luck one time , and it do me good , it be so cheerful and sort of spiritual in it meaning , you know . '
Bess open her blue eye in wonder at this fancy of Dan 's for anything ` spiritual ' ; but she only nod , say : ` Some of the little song be sweet and might be set to music . '
Dan laugh ; ' I use to sing the last one to a tune of my own sometimes at sunset : ' `` Listening to celestial lay , Bending thy unclouded gaze On the pure and living light , Thou art blest , Aslauga 's Knight ! ''
` And I be , ' he add , under his breath , a he glance towards the sunshine dance on the wall .
` This one suit you good now ' ; and glad to please him by her interest , Bess read in her soft voice : ' `` Healfast , healfast , ye hero wound ; O knight , be quickly strong !
Beloved strife For fame and life , Oh , tarry not too long ! '' '
` I 'm no hero , never can be , and `` fame and life '' ca n't do much for me .
Never mind , read me that paper , please .
This knock on the head have make a regular fool of me . '
Dan 's voice be gentle ; but the light be go out of his face now , and he move restlessly a if the silken pillow be full of thorn .
Seeing that his mood have change , Bess quietly put down the book , take up the paper , and glance along the column for something to suit him .
` You do n't care for the money market , I know , nor musical news .
Here 's a murder ; you use to like those ; shall I read it ?
One man kill another -- , ' ` No ! '
Only a word , but it give Mrs Jo a thrill , and for a moment she dare not glance at the tell-tale mirror .
When she do Dan lay motionless with one hand over his eye , and Bess be happily read the art news to ears that never hear a word .
Feeling like a thief who have steal something very precious , Mrs Jo slip away to her study , and before long Bess follow to report that Dan be fast asleep .
Sending her home , with the firm resolve to keep her there as much a possible , Mother Bhaer have an hour of serious think all alone in the red sunset ; and when a sound in the next room lead her there , she find that the feigned sleep have become real repose ; for Dan lay breathe heavily , with a scarlet spot on either cheek , and one hand clinch on his broad breast .
Yearning over him with a deep pity than ever before , she sit in the little chair beside him , try to see her way out of this tangle , till his hand slip down , and in do so snap a cord he wear about his neck and let a small case drop to the floor .
Mrs Jo pick it up , and a he do not wake , sit look at it , idly wonder what charm it hold ; for the case be of Indian workmanship and the broken cord , of closely woven grass , sweet scent and pale yellow . '
I wo n't pry into any more of the poor fellow 's secret .
I 'll mend and put it back , and never let him know I 've see his talisman . '
As she speak she turn the little wallet to examine the fracture , and a card fell into her lap .
It be a photograph , cut to fit it covering , and two word be write underneath the face , ` My Aslauga ' .
For an instant Mrs Jo fancy that it might be one of herself , for all the boy have them ; but a the thin paper fell away , she saw the picture Demi take of Bess that happy summer day .
There be no doubt now , and with a sigh she put it back , and be about to slip it into Dan 's bosom so that not even a stitch should betray her knowledge , when a she lean towards him , she saw that he be look straight at her with an expression that surprise her more than any of the strange one she have ever see in that changeful face before .
` Your hand slip down ; it fell ; I be put it back , ' explain Mrs Jo , feel like a naughty child caught in mischief .
` You saw the picture ? '
` Yes . '
` And know what a fool I be ? '
` Yes , Dan , and be so grieved -- ' ` Do n't worry about me .
I 'm all right -- glad you know , though I never mean to tell you .
Of course it be only a crazy fancy of mine , and nothing can ever come of it .
Never think there would .
Good Lord !
what could that little angel ever be to me but what she be -- a sort of dream of all that 's sweet and good ? '
More afflict by the quiet resignation of his look and tone than by the most passionate ardour , Mrs Jo could only say , with a face full of sympathy : ` It be very hard , dear , but there be no other way to look at it .
You be wise and brave enough to see that , and to let the secret be ours alone . ' '
I swear I will !
not a word nor a look if I can help it .
No one guess , and if it trouble no one , be there any harm in my keep this , and take comfort in the pretty fancy that keep me sane in that curse place ? '
Dan 's face be eager now , and he hide away the little worn case a if defy any hand to take it from him .
Anxious to know everything before give counsel or comfort , Mrs Jo say quietly : ` Keep it , and tell me all about the `` fancy '' .
Since I have stumble on your secret , let me know how it come , and how I can help to make it light to bear . '
` You 'll laugh ; but I do n't mind .
You always do find out our secret and give u a lift .
Well , I never care much for book , you know ; but down yonder when the devil torment me I have to do something or go stark mad , so I read both the book you give me .
One be beyond me , till that good old man show me how to read it ; but the other , this one , be a comfort , I tell you .
It amuse me , and be as pretty a poetry .
I like 'em all , and most wear out Sintram .
See how use up he be !
Then I come to this , and it sort of fit that other happy part of my life , last summer -- here . '
Dan stop a moment a the word linger on his lip ; then , with a long breath , go on , a if it be hard to lay bare the foolish little romance he have weave about a girl , a picture , and a child 's story there in the darkness of the place which be a terrible to him a Dante 's Inferno , till he find his Beatrice . '
I could n't sleep , and have to think about something , so I use to fancy I be Folko , and see the shining of Aslauga 's hair in the sunset on the wall , the gum of the watchman 's lamp , and the light that come in at dawn .
My cell be high .
I could see a bit of sky ; sometimes there be a star in it , and that be most as good a a face .
I set great store by that patch of blue , and when a white cloud go by , I think it be the pretty thing in all this world .
I guess I be pretty near a fool ; but those thought and thing help me through , so they be all solemn true to me , and I ca n't let them go .
The dear shiny head , the white gown , the eye like star , and sweet , calm way that set her a high above me a the moon in heaven .
Do n't take it away !
it 's only a fancy , but a man must love something , and I 'd better love a spirit like her than any of the poor common girl who would care for me . '
The quiet despair in Dan 's voice pierce Mrs Jo to the heart ; but there be no hope and she give none .
Yet she felt that he be right , and that his hapless affection might do more to uplift and purify him than any other he might know .
Few woman would care to marry Dan now , except such a would hinder , not help , him in the struggle which life would always be to him ; and it be well to go solitary to his grave than become what she suspect his father have be -- a handsome , unprincipled , and dangerous man , with more than one broken heart to answer for .
` Yes , Dan , it be wise to keep this innocent fancy , if it help and comfort you , till something more real and possible come to make you happy .
I wish I could give you any hope ; but we both know that the dear child be the apple of her father 's eye , the pride of her mother 's heart , and that the most perfect lover they can find will hardly seem to them worthy of their precious daughter .
Let her remain for you the high , bright star that lead you up and make you believe in heaven . '
Mrs Jo break down there ; it seem so cruel to destroy the faint hope Dan 's eye betray , that she could not moralize when she think of his hard life and lonely future .
Perhaps it be the wise thing she could have do , for in her hearty sympathy he find comfort for his own loss , and very soon be able to speak again in the manly tone of resignation to the inevitable that show how honest be his effort to give up everything but the pale shadow of what , for another , might have be a happy possibility .
They talk long and earnestly in the twilight ; and this second secret bound them close than the first ; for in it there be neither sin nor shame -- only the tender pain and patience which have make saint and hero of far bad men than our poor Dan .
When at length they rise at the summons of a bell , all the sunset glory have depart , and in the wintry sky there hang one star , large , soft , and clear , above a snowy world .
Pausing at the window before she drop the curtain , Mrs Jo say cheerfully : ` Come and see how beautiful the evening star be , since you love it so . '
And a he stand behind her , tall and pale , like the ghost of his former self , she add softly : ` And remember , dear , if the sweet girl be deny you , the old friend be always here -- to love and trust and pray for you . '
This time she be not disappointed ; and have she ask any reward for many anxiety and care , she receive it when Dan 's strong arm come round her , a he say , in a voice which show her that she have not labour in vain to pluck her firebrand from the burning : ' I never can forget that ; for she 's help to save my soul , and make me dare to look up there and say : `` God bless her ! '' '
Chapter 22 .
POSITIVELY LAST APPEARANCE ` Upon my word , I feel a if I live in a powder-magazine , and do n't know which barrel will explode next , and send me fly , ' say Mrs Jo to herself next day , a she trudge up to Parnassus to suggest to her sister that perhaps the most charming of the young nurse have well return to her marble god before she unconsciously add another wound to those already win by the human hero .
She tell no secret ; but a hint be sufficient ; for Mrs Amy guard her daughter a a pearl of great price , and at once devise a very simple mean of escape from danger .
Mr Laurie be go to Washington on Dan 's behalf , and be delight to take his family with him when the idea be carelessly suggest .
So the conspiracy succeed finely ; and Mrs Jo go home , feel more like a traitor than ever .
She expect an explosion ; but Dan take the news so quietly , it be plain that he cherish no hope ; and Mrs Amy be sure her romantic sister have be mistake .
If she have see Dan 's face when Bess go to say good-bye , her maternal eye would have discover far more than the unconscious girl do .
Mrs Jo tremble l he should betray himself ; but he have learn self-control in a stern school , and would have get through the hard moment bravely , only , when he take both hand , say heartily : ` Good-bye , Princess .
If we do n't meet again , remember your old friend Dan sometimes , ' she , touch by his late danger and the wistful look he wear , answer with unusual warmth : ` How can I help it , when you make u all so proud of you ?
God bless your mission , and bring you safely home to u again ! '
As she look up at him with a face full of frank affection and sweet regret , all that he be lose rise so vividly before him that Dan could not resist the impulse to take the ` dear goldy head ' between his hand and kiss it , with a broken ` Good-bye ' ; then hurry back to his room , feeling a if it be the prison-cell again , with no glimpse of heaven 's blue to comfort him .
This abrupt caress and departure rather startle Bess ; for she felt with a girl 's quick instinct that there be something in that kiss unknown before , and look after him with sudden colour in her cheek and new trouble in her eye .
Mrs Jo saw it , and fear a very natural question answer it before it be put .
` Forgive him , Bess .
He have have a great trouble , and it make him tender at part with old friend ; for you know he may never come back from the wild world he be go to . '
` You mean the fall and danger of death ? '
ask Bess , innocently .
` No , dear ; a great trouble than that .
But I can not tell you any more -- except that he have come through it bravely ; so you may trust and respect him , a I do . '
` He have lose someone he love .
Poor Dan !
We must be very kind to him . '
Bess do not ask the question , but seem content with her solution of the mystery -- which be so true that Mrs Jo confirm it by a nod , and let her go away believe that some tender loss and sorrow work the great change all saw in Dan , and make him so slow to speak concern the past year .
But Ted be less easily satisfy , and this unusual reticence goad him to desperation .
His mother have warn him not to trouble Dan with question till he be quite well ; but this prospect of approach departure make him resolve to have a full , clear , and satisfactory account of the adventure which he felt sure must have be thrill , from stray word Dan let fall in his fever .
So one day when the coast be clear , Master Ted volunteer to amuse the invalid , and do so in the following manner : ` Look here , old boy , if you do n't want me to read , you 've get to talk , and tell me all about Kansas , and the farm , and that part .
The Montana business I know , but you seem to forget what go before .
Brace up , and let 's have it , ' he begin , with an abruptness which rouse Dan from a brown study most effectually .
` No , I do n't forget ; it be n't interesting to anyone but myself .
I do n't see any farm -- give it up , ' he say slowly .
` Why ? '
` Other thing to do . '
` What ? '
` Well , brush-making for one thing . '
` Do n't chaff a fellow .
Tell true . ' '
I truly do . '
` What for ? '
` To keep out of mischief , as much a anything . '
` Well , of all the queer thing -- and you 've do a lot -- that 's the queer , ' cry Ted , take aback at this disappointing discovery .
But he do n't mean to give up yet , and begin again .
` What mischief , Dan ? '
` Never you mind .
Boys should n't bother . '
` But I do want to know , awfully , because I 'm your pal , and care for you no end .
Always do .
Come , now , tell me a good yarn .
I love scrape .
I 'll be mum a an oyster if you do n't want it know . '
` Will you ? '
and Dan look at him , wonder how the boyish face would change if the truth be suddenly tell him .
` I 'll swear it on locked fist , if you like .
I know it be jolly , and I 'm ache to hear . '
` You be as curious a a girl .
More than some -- Josie and -- and Bess never ask a question . '
` They do n't care about row and thing ; they like the mine business , hero , and that sort .
So do I , and I 'm as proud a Punch over it ; but I see by your eye that there be something else before that , and I 'm bound to find out who Blair and Mason be , and who be hit and who run away , and all the rest of it . '
` What ! '
cried Dan , in a tone that make Ted jump .
` Well , you use to mutter about 'em in your sleep , and Uncle Laurie wonder .
So do I ; but do n't mind , if you ca n't remember , or would rather not . '
` What else do I say ?
Queer , what stuff a man will talk when his wit be go . '
` That 's all I hear ; but it seem interesting , and I just mention it , think it might refresh your memory a bit , ' say Teddy , very politely ; for Dan 's frown be heavy at that moment .
It clear off at this reply , and after a look at the boy squirm with suppressed impatience in his chair , Dan make up his mind to amuse him with a game of cross-purpose and half-truth , hop to quench his curiosity , and so get peace .
` Let me see ; Blair be a lad I meet in the car , and Mason a poor fellow who be in a -- well , a sort of hospital where I happen to be .
Blair run off to his brother , and I suppose I might say Mason be hit , because he die there .
Does that suit you ? '
` No , it do n't .
Why do Blair run ?
and who hit the other fellow ?
I 'm sure there be a fight somewhere , be n't there ? '
` Yes ! '
I guess I know what it be about . '
` The devil , you do !
Let 's hear you guess .
Must be amuse , ' say Dan , affect an ease he do not feel .
Charmed to be allow to free his mind , Ted at once unfold the boyish solution of the mystery which he have be cherish , for he felt that there be one somewhere .
` You need n't say yes , if I guess right and you be under oath to keep silent .
I shall know by your face , and never tell .
Now see if I 'm not right .
Out there they have wild doings , and it 's my belief you be in some of 'em .
I do n't mean rob mail , and KluKluxing , and that sort of thing ; but defend the settler , or hang some scamp , or even shoot a few , a a fellow must sometimes , in self-defence .
Ah , ha !
I 've hit it , I see .
Need n't speak ; I know the flash of your old eye , and the clench of your big fist . '
And Ted prance with satisfaction .
` Drive on , smart boy , and do n't lose the trail , ' say Dan , find a curious sense of comfort in some of these random word , and longing , but not dare , to confirm the true one .
He might have confess the crime , but not the punishment that follow , the sense of it disgrace be still so strong upon him . '
I know I should get it ; ca n't deceive me long , ' begin Ted , with such an air of pride Dan could not help a short laugh .
` It 's a relief , be n't it , to have it off your mind ?
Now , just confide in me and it 's all safe , unless you 've swear not to tell . ' '
I have . '
` Oh , well , then do n't ' ; and Ted 's face fell , but he be himself again in a moment and say , with the air of a man of the world : ` It 's all right -- I understand -- honour bind -- silence to death , etc . .
Glad you stand by your mate in the hospital .
How many do you kill ? '
` Only one . '
` Bad lot , of course ? ' '
A damned rascal . '
` Well , do n't look so fierce ; I 've no objection .
Would n't mind pop at some of those bloodthirsty blackguard myself .
Had to dodge and keep quiet after it , I suppose . '
` Pretty quiet for a long spell . '
` Got off all right in the end , and head for your mine and do that jolly brave thing .
Now , I call that decidedly interesting and capital .
I 'm glad to know it ; but I wo n't blab . '
` Mind you do n't .
Look here .
Ted , if you 'd kill a man , would it trouble you -- a bad one , I mean ? '
The lad open his mouth to say , ` Not a bit , ' but check that answer a if something in Dan 's face make him change his mind .
` Well , if it be my duty in war or self-defence , I suppose I should n't ; but if I 'd pitch into him in a rage , I guess I should be very sorry .
Should n't wonder if he sort of haunt me , and remorse gnaw me a it do Aram and those fellow .
You do n't mind , do you ?
It be a fair fight , be n't it ? '
` Yes , I be in the right ; but I wish I 'd be out of it .
Women do n't see it that way , and look horrify at such thing .
Makes it hard ; but it do n't matter . '
` Do n't tell 'em ; then they ca n't worry , ' say Ted , with the nod of one verse in the management of the sex .
` Do n't intend to .
Mind you keep your notion to yourself , for some of 'em be wide of the mark .
Now you may read if you like ' ; and there the talk end ; but Ted take great comfort in it , and look as wise a an owl afterwards .
A few quiet week follow , during which Dan chafed at the delay ; and when at length word come that his credential be ready , he be eager to be off , to forget a vain love in hard work , and live for others , since he might not for himself .
So one wild March morning our Sintram rode away , with horse and hound , to face again the enemy who would have conquer him , but for Heaven 's help and human pity .
` Ah , me !
it do seem a if life be make of parting , and they get hard a we go on , ' sigh Mrs Jo , a week later , a she sit in the long parlour at Parnassus one evening , whither the family have go to welcome the traveller back .
` And meeting too , dear ; for here we be , and Nat be on his way at last .
Look for the silver lining , a Marmee use to say , and be comfort , ' answer Mrs Amy , glad to be at home and find no wolf prowl near her sheepfold .
` I 've be so worried lately , I ca n't help croaking .
I wonder what Dan think at not see you again ?
It be wise ; but he would have enjoy another look at home face before he go into the wilderness , ' say Mrs Jo regretfully .
` Much well so .
We leave note and all we could think of that he might need , and slip away before he come .
Bess really seem relieve ; I 'm sure I be ' ; and Mrs Amy smooth an anxious line out of her white forehead , a she smile at her daughter , laugh happily among her cousin .
Mrs Jo shake her head a if the silver lining of that cloud be hard to find ; but she have no time to croak again , for just then Mr Laurie come in look well please at something . '
A new picture have arrive ; face towards the music-room , good people , and tell me how you like it .
I call it `` Only a fiddler '' , after Andersen 's story .
What name will you give it ? '
As he speak he throw open the wide door , and just beyond they saw a young man standing , with a beam face , and a violin in his hand .
There be no doubt about the name to this picture , and with the cry ` Nat !
Nat ! '
there be a general uprising .
But Daisy reach him first , and seem to have lose her usual composure somewhere on the way , for she cling to him , sob with the shock of a surprise and joy too great for her to bear quietly .
Everything be settle by that tearful and tender embrace , for , though Mrs Meg speedily detach her daughter , it be only to take her place ; while Demi shake Nat 's hand with brotherly warmth , and Josie dance round them like Macbeth 's three witch in one , chant in her most tragic tone : ` Chirper thou wast ; second violin thou art ; first thou shalt be .
Hail , all hail ! '
This cause a laugh , and make thing gay and comfortable at once .
Then the usual fire of question and answer begin , to be keep up briskly while the boy admire Nat 's blond beard and foreign clothes , the girl his improved appearance -- for he be ruddy with good English beef and beer , and fresh with the sea-breezes which have blow him swiftly home -- and the old folk rejoice over his prospect .
Of course all want to hear him play ; and when tongue tire , he gladly do his best for them , surprise the most critical by his progress in music even more than by the energy and self-possession which make a new man of bashful Nat .
By and by when the violin -- that most human of all instrument -- have sing to them the lovely song without word , he say , look about him at these old friend with what Mr Bhaer call a ` feeling-full ' expression of happiness and content : ` Now let me play something that you will all remember though you wo n't love it a I do ' ; and stand in the attitude which Ole Bull have immortalize , he play the street melody he give them the first night he come to Plumfield .
They remember it , and join in the plaintive chorus , which fitly express his own emotion : ` Oh my heart be sad and weary Everywhere I roam , Longing for the old plantation And for the old folk at home . '
` Now I feel well , ' say Mrs Jo , a they all troop down the hill soon after .
` Some of our boy be failure , but I think this one be go to be a success , and patient Daisy a happy girl at last .
Nat be your work , Fritz , and I congratulate you heartily . '
` Ach , we can but sow the seed and trust that it fall on good ground .
I plant , perhaps , but you watch that the fowl of the air do not devour it , and brother Laurie water generously ; so we will share the harvest among u , and be glad even for a small one , heart 's - dearest . ' '
I think the seed have fall on very stony ground with my poor Dan ; but I shall not be surprised if he surpass all the rest in the real success of life , since there be more rejoice over one repentant sinner than many saint , ' answer Mrs Jo , still cling fast to her black sheep although a whole flock of white one trot happily before her .
It be a strong temptation to the weary historian to close the present tale with an earthquake which should engulf Plumfield and it environs so deeply in the bowel of the earth that no youthful Schliemann could ever find a vestige of it .
But a that somewhat melodramatic conclusion might shock my gentle reader , I will refrain , and forestall the usual question , ` How do they end ? '
by briefly state that all the marriage turn out well .
The boy prosper in their various calling ; so do the girl , for Bess and Josie win honour in their artistic career , and in the course of time find worthy mate .
Nan remain a busy , cheerful , independent spinster , and dedicate her life to her suffering sister and their child , in which true woman 's work she find abide happiness .
Dan never marry , but live , bravely and usefully , among his chosen people till he be shoot defend them , and at last lay quietly asleep in the green wilderness he love so well , with a lock of golden hair upon his breast , and a smile on his face which seem to say that Aslauga 's Knight have fight his last fight and be at peace .
Stuffy become an alderman , and die suddenly of apoplexy after a public dinner .
Dolly be a society man of mark till he lose his money , when he find congenial employment in a fashionable tailoring establishment .
Demi become a partner , and live to see his name above the door , and Rob be a professor at Laurence College ; but Teddy eclipse them all by become an eloquent and famous clergyman , to the great delight of his astonished mother .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Kitty's_Class_Day_And_Other_Stories.txt.out
KITTY 'S CLASS DAY `` A stitch in time save nine . ''
`` O Pris , Pris , I 'm really go !
Here 's the invitation -- rough paper -- Chapel -- spread -- Lyceum Hall -- everything splendid ; and Jack to take care of me ! ''
As Kitty burst into the room and perform a rapturous pa seul , wave the card over her head , sister Priscilla look up from her work with a smile of satisfaction on her quiet face .
`` Who invite you , dear ? ''
`` Why , Jack , of course , -- dear old cousin Jack .
Nobody else ever think of me , or care whether I have a bit of pleasure now and then .
Is n't he kind ?
May n't I go ?
and , O Pris , what shall I wear ? ''
Kitty pause suddenly , a if the last all-important question have a solemnizing effect upon both mind and body .
`` Why , your white muslin , silk sacque , and new hat , of course , '' begin Pris with an air of surprise .
But Kitty break in impetuously , -- `` I 'll never wear that old muslin again ; it 's full of darn , up to my knee , and all out of fashion .
So be my sacque ; and a for my hat , though it do well enough here , it would be absurd for Class Day . ''
`` You do n't expect an entirely new suit for this occasion , -- do you ? ''
ask Pris , anxiously .
`` Yes , I do , and I 'll tell you how I mean to get it .
I 've plan everything ; for , though I hardly dream of go , I amuse myself by think how I could manage if I do get invite . ''
`` Let u hear . ''
And Pris take up her work with an air of resignation .
`` First , my dress , '' begin Kitty , perch herself on the arm of the sofa , and enter into the subject with enthusiasm .
`` I 've get the ten dollar grandpa send me , and with eight of it I 'm go to buy Lizzie King 's organdie muslin .
She get it in Paris ; but her aunt providentially -- no , unfortunately -- die ; so she ca n't wear it , and want to get rid of it .
She be big than I be , you know ; so there be enough for a little mantle or sacque , for it be n't make up .
The skirt be cut off and gore , with a splendid train -- '' `` My dear , you do n't mean you be go to wear one of those absurd , new-fashioned dress ? ''
exclaim Pris , lift hand and eye .
`` I do !
Nothing would induce me to go to Class Day without a train .
It 's be the desire of my heart to have one , and now I will , if I never have another gown to my back ! ''
return Kitty , with immense decision .
Pris shake her head , and say , `` Go on ! ''
a if prepared for any extravagance after that .
`` We can make it ourselves , '' continue Kitty , `` and trim it with the same .
It 's white with blue stripe and daisy in the stripe ; the lovely thing you ever saw , and ca n't be get here .
So simple , yet distingu , I know you 'll like it .
Next , my bonnet , '' -- here the solemnity of Kitty 's face and manner be charm to behold .
`` I shall make it out of one of my new illusion undersleeves .
I 've never wear them ; and the puffed part will be a plenty for a little fly-away bonnet of the late style .
I 've get blue ribbon to tie it with , and have only to look up some daisy for the inside .
With my extra two dollar I shall buy my glove , and pay my fare , -- and there I be , all complete . ''
She look so happy , so pretty , and full of girlish satisfaction , that sister Pris could n't bear to disturb the little plan , much a she disapprove of it .
They be poor , and every penny have to be count .
There be plenty of neighbor to gossip and criticise , and plenty of friend to make disagreeable remark on any unusual extravagance .
Pris saw thing with the prudent eye of thirty , but Kitty with the romantic eye of seventeen ; and the elder sister , in the kindness of her heart , have no wish to sadden life to those bright young eye , or deny the child a harmless pleasure .
She sew thoughtfully for a minute , then look up , say , with the smile that always assure Kitty the day be win , -- `` Get your thing together , and we will see what can be do .
But remember , dear , that it be both bad taste and bad economy for poor people to try to ape the rich . ''
`` You 're a perfect angel , Pris ; so do n't moralize .
I 'll run and get the dress , and we 'll begin at once , for there be much to do , and only two day to do it in . ''
And Kitty skip away , sing `` Lauriger Horatius , '' at the top of her voice .
Priscilla soon find that the girl 's head be completely turn by the advice and example of certain fashionable young neighbor .
It be in vain for Pris to remonstrate and warn .
`` Just this once let me do a others do , and thoroughly enjoy myself . ''
pleaded Kitty ; and Pris yield , say to herself , `` She shall have her wish , and if she learn a lesson , neither time nor money will be lose . ''
So they snip and sew , and plan and piece , go through all the alternation of despair and triumph , worry and satisfaction , which woman undergo when a new suit be under way .
Company keep come , for news of Kitty 's expedition have fly abroad , and her young friend must just run in to hear about it , and ask what she be go to wear ; while Kitty be so glad and proud to tell , and show , and enjoy her little triumph that many half hour be waste , and the second day find much still to do .
The lovely muslin do n't hold out , and Kitty sacrifice the waist to the train , for a train she must have or the whole thing would be an utter failure .
A little sacque be eked out , however , and when the frill be on , it be `` ravishing , '' a Kitty say , with a sigh of mingled delight and fatigue .
The gored skirt be a fearful job , a any one who have ever plunge into the mystery will testify ; and before the facing , even experience Pris quail .
The bonnet also be a trial , for when the lace be on , it be discover that the ribbon do n't match the dress .
Here be a catastrophe !
Kitty frantically rummage the house , the shop , the store of her friend , and rummage in vain .
There be no time to send to the city , and despair be about to fall on Kitty , when Pris rescue her by quietly make one of the small sacrifice which be easy to her because her life be spend for others .
Some one suggest a strip of blue illusion , -- and that could be get ; but , ala !
Kitty have no money , for the glove be already buy .
Pris hear the lamentation , and give up fresh ribbon for herself , pull her sister out of a slough of despond with two yard of `` heavenly tulle . ''
`` Now the daisy ; and oh , dear me , not one can I find in this poverty-stricken town , '' sigh Kitty , prink at the glass , and fervently hop that nothing would happen to her complexion over night .
`` I see plenty just like those on your dress , '' answer Pris , nod toward the meadow full of young whiteweed .
`` Pris , you 're a treasure !
I 'll wear real one ; they keep well , I know , and be so common I can refresh my bonnet anywhere .
It 's a splendid idea . ''
Away rush Kitty to return with an apron full of American daisy .
A pretty cluster be soon fastened just over the left-hand frizzle of bright hair , and the little bonnet be complete .
`` Now , Pris , tell me how I look , '' cry Kitty , a she sweep into the room late that afternoon in full gala costume .
It would have be impossible for the primmest , the sour , or the most sensible creature in the world to say that it be n't a pretty sight .
The long train , the big chignon , the apology for a bonnet , be all ridiculous , -- no one could deny that , -- but youth , beauty , and a happy heart make even those absurdity charm .
The erect young figure give an air to the crisp fold of the delicate dress ; the bright eye and fresh cheek under the lace rosette make one forget it size ; and the ripple brown hair win admiration in spite of the ugly bunch which disfigure the girl 's head .
The little jacket set `` divinely , '' the new glove be as immaculate a white kid could be , and to crown all , Lizzie King , in a burst of generosity , lent Kitty the blue and white Paris sunshade which she could n't use herself .
`` Now I could die content ; I 'm perfect in all respect , and I know Jack wo n't be ashamed of me .
I really owe it to him to look my best , you know , and that 's why I 'm so particular , '' say Kitty , in an apologetic tone , a she begin to lay away her finery .
`` I hope you will enjoy every minute of the time , deary .
Do n't forget to finish run up the facing ; I 've baste it carefully , and would do it if my head do n't ache so , I really ca n't hold it up any longer , '' answer Pris , who have work like a disinterested bee , while Kitty have fly about like a distracted butterfly .
`` Go and lie down , you dear , kind soul , and do n't think of my nonsense again , '' say Kitty , feel remorseful , till Pris be comfortably asleep , when she go to her room and revel in her finery till bedtime .
So absorb be she in learn to manage her train gracefully , that she forget the facing till very late .
Then , be wear out with work and worry , she do , what girl be too apt to do , stick a pin here and there , and , trust to Priscilla 's careful basting , leave it a it be , retire to dream of a certain Horace Fletcher , whose aristocratic elegance have make a deep impression upon her during the few evening she have see him .
Nothing could have be lovely than the morning , and few heart happy than Kitty 's , a she array herself with the utmost care , and wait in solemn state for the carriage ; for muslin train and dewy road be incompatible , and one luxury bring another .
`` My goodness , where do she get that stylish suit ? ''
whispered Miss Smith to Miss Jones , a Kitty float into the station with all sail set , find it impossible to resist the temptation to astonish certain young lady who have snub her in time past , which snub have rankle , and be now avenge .
`` I look everywhere for a muslin for to-day and could n't find any I like , so I be force to wear my mauve silk , '' observe Miss Smith , complacently settle the silvery fold of her dress .
`` It 's very pretty , but one ruin a silk at Class Day , you know .
I think this organdie would be more comfortable and appropriate this warm day .
A friend bring it from Paris , and it 's like one the Princess of Wales wore at the great flower-show this year , '' return Kitty , with the air of a young lady who have all her dress from Paris , and be intimately acquaint with the royal family .
`` Those girl '' be entirely extinguish by this stroke , and have n't a word to say for themselves , while Kitty casually mention Horace Fletcher , Lyceum Hall , and Cousin Jack , for they have only a little Freshman brother to boast of , and be not go to Lyceum Hall .
As she step out of the car at Cambridge , Jack open his honest blue eye and indulge in a low whistle of astonishment : for if there be anything he especially hat , it be the train , chignon and tiny bonnet then in fashion .
He be very fond of Kitty , and pride himself on be able to show his friend a girl who be charm , and yet not over-dressed .
`` She have make a regular guy of herself ; I wo n't tell her so , and the dear little soul shall have a jolly time in spite of her fuss and feather .
But I do wish she have let her hair alone and wear that pretty hat of hers . ''
As this thought pass through Jack 's mind he smile and bow and make his way among the crowd , whisper a he draw his cousin 's arm through his own , -- `` Why , Kitty , you 're get up regardless of expense , be n't you ?
I 'm so glad you come , we 'll have a rouse good time , and you shall see all the fun . ''
`` Oh , thank you , Jack !
Do I look nice , really ?
I try to be a credit to you and Pris , and I do have such a job of it .
I 'll make you laugh over it some time .
A carriage for me ?
Bless u , how fine we be ! ''
and Kitty step in , feel that only one thing more be need to make her cup overflow .
That one thing be speedily vouchsafe , for before her skirt be smoothly settle , Jack call out , in his hearty way , -- `` How be you , Fletcher ?
If you be bind for Chapel I 'll take you up . ''
`` Thanks ; good-morning , Miss Heath . ''
It be all do in an instant , and the next thing Kitty know she be roll away with the elegant Horace sit opposite .
How little it take to make a young girl happy !
A pretty dress , sunshine , and somebody opposite , and they be blest .
Kitty 's face glow and dimple with pleasure a she glance about her , especially when she , sit in state with two gentleman all to herself , pass `` those girl '' walk in the dust with a beardless boy ; she felt that she could forgive past slight , and do so with a magnanimous smile and bow .
Both Jack and Fletcher have graduate the year before , but still take an interest in their old haunt , and patronize the fellow who be not yet through the mill , at least the Seniors and Juniors ; of Sophs and Freshs they be sublimely unconscious .
Greeted by frequent slap on the shoulder , and hearty `` How be you , old fellow , '' they pilot Kitty to a seat in the chapel .
An excellent place , but the girl 's satisfaction be mar by Fletcher 's desertion , and she could not see anything attractive about the dashing young lady in the pink bonnet to whom he devote himself , `` because she be a stranger , '' Kitty say .
Everybody know what go on in the Chapel , after the fight and scramble be over .
The rustle and buzz , the music , the oratory and the poem , during which the men cheer and the girl simper ; the professor yawn , and the poet 's friend pronounce him a second Longfellow .
Then the closing flourish , the grand crush , and general scattering .
Then the fun really begin , as far a the young folk be concern .
They do n't mind swarm up and down stair in a solid phalanx ; they can enjoy half a dozen course of salad , ice and strawberry , with stout gentleman crush their foot , anxious mamma stick sharp elbow into their side , and absent-minded tutor walk over them .
They can flirt vigorously in a torrid atmosphere of dinner , dust , and din ; can smile with hot coffee run down their back , small avalanche of ice-cream descend upon their best bonnet , and sandwich , butter-side down , repose on their delicate silk .
They know that it be a costly rapture , but they carefully refrain from thinking of the morrow , and energetically illustrate the Yankee maxim which bid u enjoy ourselves in our early bloom .
Kitty do have `` a rousing good time ; '' for Jack be devote , take her everywhere , show her everything , feed and fan her , and festoon her train with untiring patience .
How many forcible expression he mentally indulge in a he walk on that unlucky train we will not record ; he smile and skip and talk of tread on flower in a way that would have charm Kitty , if some one else have not be hover about `` The Daisy , '' a Fletcher call her .
After he return , she neglect Jack , who take it coolly , and be never in the way unless she want him .
For the first time in her life , Kitty deliberately flirt .
The little coquetry , which be a natural to a gay young girl a her laughter , be all in full play , and have she go no further no harm would have be do .
But , excite by the example of those about her , Kitty try to enact the fashionable young lady , and , like most novice , she overdo the part .
Quite forget her cousin , she toss her head , twirl her fan , give affect little shriek at college joke , and talk college slang in a way that convulse Fletcher , who enjoy the fun immensely .
Jack saw it all , shake his head and say nothing ; but his face grow rather sober a he watch Kitty , flush , dishevel , and breathless , whirl round Lyceum Hall , on the arm of Fletcher , who dance divinely , a all the girl agree .
Jack have propose go , but Kitty have frown , so he fell back , leave her to listen and laugh , blush and shrink a little at her partner 's flowery compliment and admire glance .
`` If she stand that long she 's not the girl I take her for , '' think Jack , begin to lose patience .
`` She do n't look like my little Kitty , and somehow I do n't feel half so fond and proud of her a usual .
I know one thing , my daughter shall never be see knock about in that style . ''
As if the thought suggest the act , Jack suddenly assume an air of paternal authority , and , arrest his cousin a she be about to begin again , he say , in a tone she have never hear before , -- `` I promise Pris to take care of you , so I shall carry you off to rest , and put yourself to right after this game of romp .
I advise you to do the same , Fletcher , or give your friend in the pink bonnet a turn . ''
Kitty take Jack 's arm pettishly , but glance over her shoulder with such an invite smile that Fletcher follow , feel very much like a top , in danger of tumble down the instant he stop spin .
As she come out Kitty 's face clear , and , assume her sprightly air , she spread her plumage and prepare to descend with effect , for a party of uninvited peri stand at the gate of this Paradise cast longing glance at the forbidden splendor within .
Slowly , that all might see her , Kitty sail down , with Horace , the debonair , in her wake , and be just think to herself , `` Those girl wo n't get over this very soon , I fancy , '' when all in one moment she hear Fletcher exclaim , wrathfully , `` Hang the flounce ! ''
she saw a very glossy black hat come skip down the step , felt a violent twitch backward , and , to save herself from a fall , sit down on the low step with most undignified haste .
It be impossible for the bystander to help laughing , for there be Fletcher hop wildly about , with one foot nicely catch in a muslin loop , and there sat Kitty longing to run away and hide herself , yet perfectly helpless , while every one titter .
Miss Jones and Miss Smith laugh shrilly , and the despised little Freshman complete her mortification , by a feeble joke about Kitty Heath 's new man-trap .
It be only an instant , but it seem an hour before Fletcher free her , and snatch up the dusty beaver , leave her with a flushed countenance and an abrupt bow .
If it have n't be for Jack , Kitty would have burst into tear then and there , so terrible be the sense of humiliation which oppress her .
For his sake she control herself , and , bundle up her torn train , set her teeth , star straight before her , and let him lead her in dead silence to a friend 's room near by .
There he lock the door , and begin to comfort her by make light of the little mishap .
But Kitty cry so tragically , that he be at his wit 's end , till the ludicrous side of the affair strike her , and she begin to laugh hysterically .
With a vague idea that vigorous treatment be best for that feminine ailment , Jack be about to empty the content of an ice-pitcher over her , when she arrest him , by exclaim , incoherently , -- `` Oh , do n't !
-- it be so funny !
-- how can you laugh , you cruel boy ?
-- I 'm disgraced , forever -- take me home to Pris , oh , take me home to Pris ! ''
`` I will , my dear , I will ; but first let me right you up a bit ; you look a if you have be haze , upon my life you do ; '' and Jack laugh in spite of himself at the wretched little object before him , for dust , dancing , and the downfall produce a ruinous spectacle .
That break Kitty 's heart ; and , spread her hand before her face , she be about to cry again , when the sad sight which meet her eye dispel the gathering tear .
The new glove be both split up the middle and very dirty with clutch at the step a she go down .
`` Never mind , you can wash them , '' say Jack , soothingly .
`` I pay a dollar and a half for them , and they ca n't be wash , '' groan Kitty .
`` Oh , hang the glove !
I mean your hand , '' cry Jack , try to keep sober .
`` No matter for my hand , I mourn my glove .
But I wo n't cry any more , for my head ache now so I can hardly see . ''
And Kitty throw off her bonnet , a if even that airy trifle hurt her .
Seeing how pale she look , Jack tenderly suggest a rest on the old sofa , and a wet handkerchief on her hot forehead , while he get the good landlady to send her up a cup of tea .
As Kitty rise to comply she glance at her dress , and , clasp her hand , exclaim , tragically , -- `` The facing , the fatal facing !
That make all the mischief , for if I 'd sew it last night it would n't have rip to-day ; if it have n't rip Fletcher would n't have get his foot in it , I should n't have make an object of myself , he would n't have go off in a rage , and -- who know what might have happen ? ''
`` Bless the what 's - its-name if it have settle him , '' cry Jack .
`` He be a contemptible fellow not to stay and help you out of the scrape he get you into .
Follow his lead and do n't trouble yourself about him . ''
`` Well , he be rather absurd to-day , I allow ; but he have get handsome eye and hand , and he do dance like an angel , '' sigh Kitty , a she pin up the treacherous loop which have bring destruction to her little castle in the air .
`` Handsome eye , white hand , and angelic foot do n't make a man .
Wait till you can do good , Kit . ''
With an odd , grave look , that rather startle Kitty , Jack vanish , to return presently with a comfortable cup of tea and a motherly old lady to help repair damage and soothe her by the foolish little purrings and pattings so grateful to female nerve after a flurry .
`` I 'll come back and take you out to see the dance round the tree when you 've have a bit of a rest , '' say Jack , vibrate between door and sofa a if it be n't easy to get away .
`` Oh , I could n't , '' cry Kitty , with a shudder at the bare idea of meet any one .
`` I ca n't be see again to-night ; let me stay here till my train go . ''
`` I think it have go , already , '' say Jack , with an irrepressible twinkle of the eye that glance at the draggled dress sweep the floor .
`` How can you joke about it ! ''
and the girl 's reproachful eye fill with tear of shame .
`` I know I 've be very silly , Jack , but I 've have my punishment , and I do n't need any more .
To feel that you despise me be bad than all the rest . ''
She end with a little sob , and turn her face away to hide the trembling of her lip .
At that , Jack flush up , his eye shone , and he stoop suddenly a if to make some impetuous reply .
But , remember the old lady -LRB- who , by the by , be discreetly look out of the window -RRB- , he put his hand in his pocket and stroll out of the room .
`` I 've lose them both by this day 's folly , '' think Kitty , a Mrs. Brown depart with the teacup .
`` I do n't care for Fletcher , for I dare say he do n't mean half he say , and I be only flattered because he be rich and handsome and the girl glorify him .
But I shall miss Jack , for I 've know and love him all my life .
How good he 's be to me to-day !
so patient , careful , and kind , though he must have be ashamed of me .
I know he do n't like my dress ; but he never say a word and stood by me through everything .
Oh , I wish I 'd mind Pris !
then he would have respect me , at least ; I wonder if he ever will , again ? ''
Following a sudden impulse , Kitty spring up , lock the door , and then proceed to destroy all her little vanity as far a possible .
She smooth out her crimp with a wet and ruthless hand ; fasten up her pretty hair in the simple way Jack like ; give her once cherish bonnet a spiteful shake , a she put it on , and utterly extinguish it with a big blue veil .
She loop up her dress , leave no vestige of the now hateful train , and do herself up uncompromisingly in the Quakerish gray shawl Pris have insist on her taking for the evening .
Then she survey herself with pensive satisfaction , say , in the tone of one bent on resolutely mortify the flesh , -- `` Neat but not gaudy ; I 'm a fright , but I deserve it , and it 's good than be a peacock . ''
Kitty have time to feel a little friendless and forlorn , sit there alone a twilight fell , and amuse herself by wonder if Fletcher would come to inquire about her , or show any further interest in her ; yet when the sound of a manly tramp approach , she tremble l it should be the victim of the fatal facing .
The door open , and with a sigh of relief she saw Jack come in , bear a pair of new glove in one hand and a great bouquet of June rose in the other .
`` How good of you to bring me these !
They be more refreshing than ocean of tea .
You know what I like , Jack ; thank you very much '' cry Kitty , sniff at her rose with grateful rapture .
`` And you know what I like , '' return Jack , with an approve glance at the altered figure before him .
`` I 'll never do so any more , '' murmur Kitty , wonder why she felt bashful all of a sudden , when it be only cousin Jack .
`` Now put on your glove , dear , and come out and hear the music : your train do n't go for two hour yet , and you must n't mope here all that time , '' say Jack , offer his second gift .
`` How do you know my size ? ''
ask Kitty , put on the glove in a hurry ; for though Jack have call her `` dear '' for year , the little word have a new sound to-night .
`` I guess , -- no , I do n't , I have the old one with me ; they be no good now , be they ? ''
and too honest to lie , Jack try to speak carelessly , though he turn red in the dusk , well know that the dirty little glove be fold away in his left breast-pocket at that identical moment .
`` Oh , dear , no !
these fit nicely .
I 'm ready , if you do n't mind go with such a fright , '' say Kitty , forget her dread of see people in her desire to get away from that room , because for the first time in her life she be n't at ease with Jack .
`` I think I like the little gray moth well than the fine butterfly , '' return Jack , who , in spite of his invitation , seem to find `` mop '' rather pleasant .
`` You be a rainy-day friend , and he be n't , '' say Kitty , softly , a she draw him away .
Jack 's only answer be to lay his hand on the little white glove rest so confidingly on his arm , and , keep it there , they roam away into the summer twilight .
Something have happen to the evening and the place , for both seem suddenly endow with uncommon beauty and interest .
The dingy old house might have be fairy palace , for anything they saw to the contrary ; the dusty walk , the trampled grass , be regular Elysian field to them , and the music be the music of the sphere , though they find themselves `` Right in the middle of the boom , jing , jing . ''
For both have make a little discovery , -- no , not a little one , the great and sweetest man and woman can make .
In the sharp twinge of jealousy which the sight of Kitty 's flirtation with Fletcher give him , and the delight he find in her after conduct , Jack discover how much he love her .
In the shame , gratitude , and half sweet , half bitter emotion that fill her heart , Kitty felt that to her Jack would never be `` only cousin Jack '' any more .
All the vanity , coquetry , selfishness , and ill-temper of the day seem magnify to heinous sin , for now her only thought be , `` see these fault , he ca n't care for me .
Oh , I wish I be a good girl ! ''
She do not say `` for his sake , '' but in the new humility , the ardent wish to be all that a woman should be , little Kitty prove how true her love be , and might have say with Portia , -- `` For myself alone , I would not be Ambitious in my wish ; but , for you , I would be treble twenty time myself ; A thousand time more fair , Ten thousand time more rich . ''
All about them other pair be wander under the patriarchal elm , enjoy music , starlight , balmy wind , and all the luxury of the season .
If the band have play `` Oh , there 's nothing half so sweet in life As love 's young dream -- '' it be my private opinion that it would have suit the audience to a T. Being principally compose of elderly gentleman with large family , they have not that fine sense of the fitness of thing so charm to see , and toot and bang away with waltz and march , quite regardless of the flock of Romeos and Juliets philander all about them .
Under cover of a popular medley , Kitty overheard Fletcher quiz her for the amusement of Miss Pinkbonnet , who be evidently make up for lose time .
It be feeble wit , but it put the finishing stroke to Kitty 's vanity , and she drop a tear in her blue tissue retreat , and clung to Jack , feeling that she have never value him half enough .
She hop he do n't hear the gossip go on at the other side of the tree near which they stand ; but he do , for his hand involuntarily double itself up into a very dangerous-looking fist , and he dart such fiery glance at the speaker , that , if the thing have be possible .
Fletcher 's ambrosial curl would have be scorch off his head .
`` Never mind , and do n't get angry , Jack .
They be right about one thing , -- the daisy in my bonnet be real , and I could n't afford any others .
I do n't care much , only Pris work so hard to get me ready I hate to have my thing make fun of . ''
`` He be n't worth a thrashing , so we 'll let it pass this time , '' say Jack , irefully , yet privately resolve to have it out with Fletcher by and by .
`` Why , Kitty , I think the real daisies the pretty thing about your dress .
Do n't throw them away .
I 'll wear them just to show that noodle that I prefer nature to art ; '' and Jack gallantly stick the faded posy in his button-hole , while Kitty treasure up the hint so kindly give for future use .
If a clock with great want of tact have n't insist on tell them that it be get late , Kitty never would have get home , for both the young people felt inclined to loiter about arm in arm through the sweet summer night forever .
Jack have mean to say something before she go , and be immensely surprised to find the chance lose for the present .
He want to go home with her and free his mind ; but a neighborly old gentleman have be engage a escort , there would have be very little satisfaction in a travelling trio ; so he give it up .
He be very silent a they walk to the station with Dr. Dodd trudge behind them .
Kitty think he be tire , perhaps glad to be rid of her , and meekly accept her fate .
But a the train approach , she give his hand an impulsive squeeze , and say very gratefully , -- `` Jack , I ca n't thank you enough for your kindness to your silly little cousin ; but I never shall forget it , and if I ever can return it in any way , I will with all my heart . ''
Jack look down at the young face almost pathetic now with weariness , humility , and pain , yet very sweet , with that new shyness in the loving eye , and , stoop suddenly , he kiss it , whisper in a tone that make the girl 's heart flutter , -- `` I 'll tell you how you may return it ` with all your heart , ' by and by .
Good-night , my Kitty . ''
`` Have you have a good time , dear ? ''
ask Pris , a her sister appear an hour later .
`` Do n't I look a if I have ? ''
and , throw off her wrap , Kitty revolve slowly before her that she might behold every portion of the wreck .
`` My gown be all dust , crumple , and rag , my bonnet perfectly limp and flat , and my glove be ruin ; I 've break Lizzie 's parasol , make a spectacle of myself , and waste money , time , and temper ; yet my Class Day be n't a failure , for Jack be the dear boy in the world , and I 'm very , very happy ! ''
Pris look at her a minute , then open her arm without a word , and Kitty forget all her little trouble in one great joy .
When Miss Smith and Miss Jones call a few day after to tell her that Mr. Fletcher be go abroad , the amiable creature be entirely rout by find Jack there in a most unmistakable situation .
He blandly wish Horace `` bon voyage , '' and regret that he would n't be there to the wedding in October .
Kitty devote herself to blush beautifully , and darn many rent in a short daisy muslin skirt , `` which I intend to wear a great deal , because Jack like it , and so do I , '' she say , with a demure look at her lover , who laugh a if that be the best joke of the season .
AUNT KIPP `` Children and fool speak the truth . ''
I `` What 's that sigh for , Polly dear ? ''
`` I 'm tired , mother , tire of work and wait .
If I 'm ever go to have any fun , I want it now while I can enjoy it . ''
`` You should n't wait another hour if I could have my way ; but you know how helpless I be ; '' and poor Mrs . Snow sigh dolefully , a she glance about the dingy room and pretty Mary turn her faded gown for the second time .
`` If Aunt Kipp would give u the money she be always talk about , instead of wait till she die , we should be so comfortable .
She be a dreadful bore , for she live in such terror of drop dead with her heart-complaint that she do n't take any pleasure in life herself or let any one else ; so the sooner she go the good for all of u , '' say Polly , in a desperate tone ; for thing look very black to her just then .
`` My dear , do n't say that , '' begin her mother , mildly shock ; but a bluff little voice break in with the forcible remark , -- `` She 's everlastingly tell me never to put off till to-morrow what can be do to-day ; next time she come I 'll remind her of that , and ask her , if she be go to die , why she do n't do it ? ''
`` Toady !
you 're a wicked , disrespectful boy ; never let me hear you say such a thing again about your dear Aunt Kipp . ''
`` She be n't dear !
You know we all hate her , and you be more afraid of her than you be of spider , -- so now . ''
The young personage whose proper name have be corrupt into Toady , be a small boy of ten or eleven , apple-cheeked , round-eyed , and curly-headed ; array in well-worn , gray knickerbockers , profusely adorn with paint , glue , and shred of cotton .
Perched on a high stool , at an isolated table in a state of chaos , he be absorb in make a boat , entirely oblivious of the rack tooth-ache which have be his excuse for stay from school .
As cool , saucy , hard-handed , and soft-hearted a little specimen of young America be Toady a you would care to see ; a tyrant at home , a rebel at school , a sworn foe to law , order , and Aunt Kipp .
This young person be regard a a reprobate by all but his mother , sister , and sister 's sweetheart , Van Bahr Lamb .
Having be , through much anguish of flesh and spirit , teach that lie be a deadly sin , Toady rush to the other extreme , and bolt out the truth , the whole truth and nothing but the truth , at all time and place , with a startle abruptness that bring wrath and dismay upon his friend and relative .
`` It 's wicked to fib ; you 've whip that into me and you ca n't rub it out , '' he be wont to say , with vivid recollection of the past tingling in the chubby portion of his frame .
`` Mind your chip , Toady , and take care what you say to Aunt Kipp , or you 'll be as poor a a little rat all the day of your life , '' say Polly , warningly .
`` I do n't want her old money , and I 'll tell her so if she bother me about it .
I shall go into business with Van and take care of the whole lot ; so do n't you preach , Polly , '' return Toady , with as much dignity a be compatible with a great dab of glue on the end of his snub nose .
`` Mother , do aunt say anything about come this week ? ''
ask Polly , after a pause of intense thought over a breadth with three darn , two spot , and a burn .
`` Yes ; she write that she be too feeble to come at present , a she have such dreadful palpitation she do n't dare stir from her room .
So we be quite safe for the next week at least , and -- bless my soul , there she be now ! ''
Mrs . Snow clasp her hand with a gesture of dismay , and sit a if transfix by the spectacle of a ponderous lady , in an awe-inspiring bonnet , who come walk slowly down the street .
Polly give a groan , and pull a bright ribbon from her hair .
Toady mutter , `` Oh , bother ! ''
and vainly attempt to polish up his countenance with a fragmentary pocket-handkerchief .
`` Nothing but salt fish for dinner , '' wail Mrs . Snow , a the shadow of the come event fell upon her .
`` Van will make a fool of himself , and ruin everything , '' sigh Polly , glance at the ring on her finger .
`` I know she 'll kiss me ; she never will let a fellow alone , '' growl Toady , scowl darkly .
The garden gate clash , dust flew from the door-mat , a heavy step echoed in the hall , an imperious voice call `` Sophy ! ''
and Aunt Kipp enter with a flourish of trumpet , for Toady blow a blast through his finger which make the bow totter on her bonnet .
`` My dear aunt , I 'm very glad to see you , '' murmur Mrs . Snow , advance with a smile of welcome ; for though as weak a water gruel , she be a kind-hearted a little woman a ever live .
`` What a fib that be ! ''
say Toady , sotto voce .
`` We be just say we be afraid you would n't '' -- begin Mary , when a warning , `` Mind now , Polly , '' cause her to stop short and busy herself with the newcomer 's bag and umbrella .
`` I change my mind .
Theodore , come and kiss me , '' answer Aunt Kipp , briefly .
`` Yes 'm , '' be the plaintive reply , and , close his eye , Toady await his fate with fortitude .
But the dreaded salute do not come , for Aunt Kipp exclaim in alarm , -- `` Mercy on u !
have the boy get the plague ? ''
`` No 'm , it 's paint , and dirt , and glue , and it wo n't come off , '' say Toady , stroke his variegated countenance with grateful admiration for the stain that save him .
`` Go and wash this moment , sir .
Thank Heaven , I 've get no boy , '' cry Aunt Kipp .
a if boy be some virulent disease which she have narrowly escape .
With a hasty peck at the lip of her two elder relative , the old lady seat herself , and slowly remove the awful bonnet , which in shape and hue much resemble a hearse hung with black crape .
`` I 'm glad you be well , '' say Mary , reverently receive the funereal head-gear .
`` I 'm not well , '' cut in Aunt Kipp .
`` I 'm bad , much bad ; my day be number ; I stand on the brink of the tomb , and may drop at any moment . ''
Toady 's face be a study , a he glance up at the old lady 's florid countenance , down at the floor , a if in search of the above-mentioned `` brink , '' and look unaffectedly anxious to see her drop .
`` Why do n't you , then ? ''
be on his lip ; but a frown from Polly restrain him , and he sit himself down on the rug to contemplate the corpulent victim .
`` Have a cup of tea , aunt ? ''
say Mrs . Snow .
`` I will . ''
`` Lie down and rest a little , '' suggest Polly .
`` I wo n't . ''
`` Can we do anything for you ? ''
say both .
`` Take my thing away , and have dinner early . ''
Both depart to perform these behest , and , lean back in her chair , Aunt Kipp repose .
`` I say , what 's a bore ? ''
ask Toady from the rug , where he sit rock meditatively to and fro , hold on by his shoe-strings .
`` It 's a kind of a pig , very fierce , and folk be afraid of 'em , '' say Aunt Kipp , whose knowledge of Natural History be limit .
`` Good for Polly !
so you be ! ''
sung out the boy , with the hearty child 's laugh so pleasant to most ear .
`` What do you mean , sir ? ''
demand the old lady , irefully poke at him with her umbrella .
`` Why , Polly say you be a bore , '' explain Toady , with artless frankness .
`` You be fat , you know , and fierce sometimes , and folk be afraid of you .
Good , be n't it ? ''
`` Very !
Mary be a nice , grateful , respectful , love niece , and I sha n't forget her , she may depend on that , '' and Aunt Kipp laugh grimly .
`` May she ?
well , that 's jolly now .
She be afraid you would n't give her the money ; so I 'll tell her it 's all right ; '' and innocent Toady nod approvingly .
`` Oh , she expect some of my money , do she ? ''
`` Course she do ; ai n't you always say you 'll remember u in your will , because father be your favorite nephew , and all that ?
I 'll tell you a secret , if you wo n't let Polly know I speak first .
You 'll find it out to-night , for you 'd see Van and she be sweetheart in a minute . ''
`` Sweethearts ? ''
cried Aunt Kipp , turn red in the face .
`` Yes 'm .
Van settle it last week , and Polly 's be so happy ever since .
Mother like it , and I like it , for I 'm fond of Van , though I do call him Baa-baa , because he look like a sheep .
We all like it , and we 'd all say so , if we be not afraid of you .
Mother and Polly , I mean ; of course we men do n't mind , but we do n't want a fuss .
You wo n't make one , will you , now ? ''
Anything more expressive of brotherly good-will , persuasive frankness , and a placid consciousness of have `` fix it , '' than Toady 's dirty little face , it would be hard to find .
Aunt Kipp eye him so fiercely that even before she speak a dim suspicion that something be wrong begin to dawn on his too-confiding soul . ''
I do n't like it , and I 'll put a stop to it .
I wo n't have any ridiculous baa-baas in my family .
If Mary count on my money to begin housekeep with , she 'll find herself mistaken ; for not one penny shall she have , marry or single , and you may tell her so . ''
Toady be so take aback by this explosion that he let go his shoe-strings , fell over with a crash , and lay flat , with shovel and tongs spread upon him like a pall .
In rushed Mrs . Snow and Polly , to find the boy 's spirit quite quench , for once , and Aunt Kipp in a towering passion .
It all come out in one overwhelming flood of word , and Toady flee from the storm to wander round the house , a prey to the deep remorse .
The meekness of that boy at dinner-time be so angelic that Mrs . Snow would have fear speedy translation for him , if she have not be very angry .
Polly 's red eye , and Aunt Kipp 's griffinesque expression of countenance , weigh upon his soul so heavily , that even roly-poly pudding fail to assuage his trouble , and , take his mother into the china-closet , he anxiously inquire `` if it be all up with Polly ? ''
`` I 'm afraid so , for aunt vow she will make a new will to-morrow , and leave every penny to the Charitable Rag-bag Society , '' sigh Mrs . Snow .
`` I do n't mean to do it , I truly do n't !
I think I 'd just ` give her a hint , ' a you say .
She look all right , and laugh when I tell her about be a bore , and I think she like it .
If she be a man , I 'd thrash her for make Polly cry ; '' and Toady shake his fist at Aunt Kipp 's umbrella , which be an immense relief to his perturbed spirit .
`` Bless the boy !
I do believe he would ! ''
cry Mrs . Snow , watch the little turkey-cock with maternal pride .
`` You ca n't do that : so just be careful and not make any more mischief , dear . ''
`` I 'll try , mother ; but I 'm always get into scrape with Aunt Kipp .
She 's bad than measles , any day , -- such an old aggrawater !
Van 's come this afternoon , wo n't he make her pleasant again ? ''
`` Oh , dear , no !
He will probably make thing ten time worse , he 's so bashful and queer .
I 'm afraid our last chance be go , deary , and we must rub along a we have do . ''
One sniff of emotion burst from Toady , and for a moment he lay his head in the knife-tray , overcome with disappointment and regret .
But scorn to yield to unmanly tear , he be soon himself again .
Thrusting his beloved jackknife , with three blade and a file , into Polly 's hand , he whisper , brokenly , -- `` Keep it forever 'n ' ever ; I 'm awful sorry ! ''
Then , feel that the magnitude of this sacrifice atone for everything , he go to watch for Van , -- the forlorn hope to which he now cling .
II `` Sophy , I 'm surprised at your want of judgment .
Do you really mean to let your girl marry this Lamb ?
Why , the man 's a fool ! ''
begin Aunt Kipp , after dinner , by way of open a pleasant conversation with her relative .
`` Dear me , aunt !
how can you know that , when you never saw him ? ''
mildly return Mrs . Snow .
`` I 've hear of him , and that 's enough for me .
I 've a deal of penetration in judge character , and I tell you Van Bahr Lamb be a fool . ''
The amiable old lady think this would rouse Polly , against whom her anger still burn hotly .
But Polly also possess penetration ; and , well know that contradiction would delight Aunt Kipp , she completely take the wind out of her sail , by coolly remark , -- `` I like fool . ''
`` Bless my heart !
what do the girl mean ? ''
ejaculate Aunt Kipp .
`` Just what I say .
If Van be a fool , I prefer simpleton to wiseacre .
I know he be shy and awkward , and do absurd thing now and then .
But I also know that he have the kind heart that ever be ; be unselfish , faithful and loving ; that he take good care of his old parent till they die , and never think of himself while they need him .
He love me dearly ; will wait for me a dozen year , if I say so , and work all his day to make me happy .
He 's a help and comfort to mother , a good friend to Toady , and I love and respect and be proud of him , though you do say he be a fool , '' cry Polly heartily .
`` And you insist on marry him ? ''
demanded Aunt Kipp .
`` Yes , I do . ''
`` Then I wish a carriage immediately , '' be the somewhat irrelevant reply .
`` Why , aunt , you do n't mean to go so soon ? ''
cry Mrs . Snow , with a reproachful glance at the rebellious Polly .
`` Far from it .
I wish to see Judge Banks about alter my will , '' be the awful answer .
Polly 's face fell ; her mother give a despairing sigh ; Toady , who have hover about the door , utter a suppressed whistle of dismay ; and Mrs. Kipp look about her with vengeful satisfaction .
`` Get the big carryall and old Bob , so the boy can drive , and all of you come ; the trip will do you good . ''
It be like Aunt Kipp to invite her poor relation to go and `` nip their own nose off , '' a she elegantly express it .
It be a party of pleasure that just suit her , for all the fun be on her side .
She grow affable at once , be quite press in her invitation , regret that Sophy be too busy to go , praise Polly 's hat ; and profess herself quite satisfy with `` that dear boy '' for a driver .
The `` dear boy '' distort his young countenance frightfully behind her back , but find a balm for every wound in the delight of be commander of the expedition .
The big carryall appear , and , with much creaking and sway Mrs. Kipp be get into the back seat , where the big bonnet gloomed like a thunder-cloud .
Polly , in a high state of indignation , which only make her look ten time prettier , sit in front with Toady , who be a sight to see a he drive off with his short leg plant against the boot , his elbow square , and the big whip scientifically crack now and then .
Away they go , leave poor Mrs . Snow to bewail herself dismally after she have smile and nod them out of sight .
`` Do n't go over any bridge or railroad crossing or by any saw-mills , '' say the old lady , a if the town could be suddenly remodelled to suit her taste .
`` Yes 'm , '' return Toady , with a crack which would have do honor to a French postilion .
It be a fine day , and the young people would have enjoy the ride in spite of the breaker ahead , if Aunt Kipp have n't entertain the girl with a glow account of the splendor of her own wedding , and aggravate the boy by frequent poke and direction in the art of driving , of which she be of course , profoundly ignorant .
Polly could n't restrain a tear or two , in thinking of her own poor little prospect , and Toady be goad to desperation .
`` I 'll give her a regular shaking up ; it 'll make her hold her tongue and do her good , '' he say to himself , a a stony hill slop temptingly before him .
A sly chuck , and some mysterious manoeuvre with the rein , and Bob start off at a brisk trot , a if he object to the old lady as much a her mischievous little nephew .
`` Hold him in !
Keep a taut rein !
Lord ' a mercy , he 's run away ! ''
shrieked Aunt Kipp , or try to shriek , for the bouncing and bumping jerk the word out of her mouth with ludicrous incoherency .
`` I be hold him , but he will go , '' say Toady , with a wicked triumph in his eye a he glance back at Polly .
The next minute the word be quite true ; for , a he speak , two or three distract hen fly squall over the wall and scatter about , under , over , and before the horse , a only distract hen could do .
It be too much for Bob 's nerve ; and , take matter into his own hand , or foot , rather , he break into a run , and rattle the old lady over the stone with a velocity which leave her speechless .
Polly laugh , and Toady chuckle , a they catch glimpse of the awful bonnet vibrate wildly in the background , and felt the frantic clutchings of the old lady 's hand .
But both grow sober a a shrill car-whistle sound not far off ; and Bob , a if possess by an evil spirit , turn suddenly into the road that lead to the railroad crossing .
`` That will do , Toady ; now pull up , for we ca n't get over in time , '' say Polly , glance anxiously toward the rapidly approaching puff of white smoke .
`` I ca n't , Polly , -- I really ca n't , '' cry the boy , tug with all his might , and begin to look scared .
Polly lend her aid ; but Bob scarcely seem to feel it , for he have be a racer once , and when his blood be up he be hard to handle .
His own good sense might have check him , if Aunt Kipp have n't unfortunately recover her voice at this crisis , and utter a succession of the shrill scream that ever salute mortal ear .
With a snort and a bound Bob dash straight on toward the crossing , a the train appear round the bend .
`` Let me out !
Let me out !
Jump !
Jump ! ''
shrieked Aunt Kipp , thrust her head out of the window , while she fumble madly for the door-handle .
`` O Toady , save u !
save u ! ''
gasp Polly , lose her presence of mind , and drop the rein to cling to her brother , with a woman 's instinctive faith in the strong sex .
But Toady hold on manfully , though his arm be nearly pull off , for `` Never say die , '' be his motto , and the plucky little lad would n't show fear before the woman .
`` Do n't howl ; we 'll do it !
Hi , Bob ! ''
and with a savage slash of the whip , an exciting cry , a terrible reeling and rattling , they do do it ; for Bob clear the track at a breakneck pace , just in time for the train to sweep swiftly by behind them .
Aunt Kipp drop in a heap , Polly look up at her brother , with a look which he never forget ; and Toady try to say , stoutly , `` It 's all right ! ''
with lip that be white and dry in spite of himself .
`` We shall smash up at the bridge , '' he mutter , a they tear through the town , where every one obligingly shout , wave their hat , and dance about on the sidewalk , do nothing but add to Bob 's fright and the party 's danger .
But Toady be wrong , -- they do not smash up at the bridge ; for , before they reach the perilous spot , one man have the sense to fly straight at the horse 's head and hold on till the momentary check enable others to lend a hand .
The instant they be safe , Polly , like a regular heroine , throw herself into the arm of her dishevelled preserver , who of course be Van , and would have refresh herself with hysteric if the sight of Toady have n't steady her .
The boy sit a stiff and rigid a a wooden figure till they take the rein from him ; then all the strength seem to go out of him , and he lean against his sister , a white and trembling a she , whisper with an irrepressible sob , -- `` O Polly , be n't it horrid ?
Tell mother I stand by you like a man .
Do tell her that ! ''
If any one have have time or heart to laugh , they certainly would have do it when , after much groping , heaving , and hoisting .
Mrs. Kipp be extricate and restore to consciousness ; for a more ludicrously deplorable spectacle be seldom see .
Quite unhurt , though much shaken , the old lady insist on believe herself to be die , and keep the town in a ferment till three doctor have pronounce her perfectly well able to go home .
Then the perversity of her nature induce her to comply , that she might have the satisfaction of die on the way , and prove herself in the right .
Unfortunately she do not expire , but , have safely arrive , go to bed in high dudgeon , and lead Polly and her mother a sad life of it for two weary day .
Having heard of Toady 's gallant behavior , she solemnly order him up to receive her blessing .
But the sight of Aunt Kipp 's rubicund visage , surround by the stiff frill of an immense nightcap , cause the irreverent boy to explode with laughter in his handkerchief , and to be hustle away by his mother before Aunt Kipp discover the true cause of his convulsed appearance .
`` Ah !
poor dear , his feeling be too much for him .
He see my doom in my face , and be overcome by what you refuse to believe .
I sha n't forget that boy 's devotion .
Now leave me to the meditation befit these solemn hour . ''
Mrs . Snow retire , and Aunt Kipp try to sleep ; but the murmur of voice , and the sound of stifled laughter in the next room disturb her repose .
`` They be rejoice over my approaching end , know that I have n't change my will .
Mercenary creature , do n't exult too soon !
there 's time yet , '' she mutter ; and presently , unable to control her curiosity , she creep out of bed to listen and peep through the keyhole .
Van Bahr Lamb do look rather like a sheep .
He have a blond curly head , a long face , pale , mild eye , a plaintive voice , and a general expression of innocent timidity strongly suggestive of animated mutton .
But Baa-baa be a `` trump , '' a Toady emphatically declare , and though every one laugh at him , every one like him , and that be more than can be say of many saint and sage .
He adore Polly , be dutifully kind to her mother , and have stand by T. Snow , Jr. , in many an hour of tribulation with fraternal fidelity .
Though he have long blush , sigh , and cast sheep 's eye at the idol of his affection , only till lately have he dare to bleat forth his passion .
Polly love him because she could n't help it ; but she be proud , and would n't marry till Aunt Kipp 's money be hers , or at least a sure prospect of it ; and now even the prospect of a prospect be destroy by that irrepressible Toady .
They be talk of this a the old lady suspect , and of course the following conversation afford her intense satisfaction .
`` It 's a shame to torment u a she do , know how poor we be and how happy a little of her money would make u .
I 'm tired of be a slave to a cruel old woman just because she 's rich .
If it be not for mother , I declare I 'd wash my hand of her entirely , and do the best I could for myself . ''
`` Hooray for Polly !
I always say let her money go and be jolly without it , '' cry Toady , who , in his character of wounded hero , repose with a lordly air on the sofa , enjoy the fragrance of the opodeldoc with which his strained wrist be bandage .
`` It 's on your account , child , that I bear with aunt 's temper a I do .
I do n't want anything for myself , but I really think she owe it to your dear father , who be devote to her while he live , to provide for his child when he could n't ; '' after which remarkably spirit speech for her , Mrs . Snow drop a tear , and stitch away on a small trouser-leg which be suffer from a complicate compound fracture .
`` Do n't you worry about me , mother ; I 'll take care of myself and you too , '' remark Toady , with the cheery belief in impossibility which make youth so charming .
`` Now , Van , tell u what to do , for thing have come to such a pas that we must either break away altogether or be galley-slaves as long a Aunt Kipp live , '' say Polly , who be a good deal excite about the matter .
`` Well , really , my dear , I do n't know , '' hesitate Van , who do know what he want , but think it might be selfish to urge it .
`` Have you try to soften your aunt 's heart ? ''
he ask , after a moment 's meditation .
`` Good gracious , Van , she have n't get any , '' cry Polly , who firmly believe it .
`` It 's hossified , '' thoughtfully remark Toady , quite unconscious of any approach to a joke till every one giggle .
`` You 've have hossification enough for one while , my lad , '' laugh Van .
`` Well , Polly , if the old lady have no heart you 'd better let her go , for people without heart be not worth much . ''
`` That 's a beautiful remark , Van , and a wise one .
I just wish she could hear you make it , for she call you a fool , '' say Polly , irefully .
`` Did she ?
Well , I do n't mind , I 'm use to it , '' return Van , placidly ; and so he be , for Polly call him a goose every day of her life , and he enjoy it immensely .
`` Then you think , dear , if we stop worry about aunt and her money , and work instead of wait , that we should n't be any poor and might be a great deal happy than we be now ? ''
ask Polly , make a pretty little tableau a she put her hand through Van 's arm and look up at him with as much love , respect , and reliance a if he have be six foot tall , with the face of an Apollo and the manner of a Chesterfield .
`` Yes , my dear , I do , for it have trouble me a good deal to see you so badger by that very uncomfortable old lady .
Independence be a very nice thing , and poverty be n't half as bad a this sort of slavery .
But you be not go to be poor , nor worry about anything .
We 'll just be marry and take mother and Toady home and be as jolly a grigs , and never think of Mrs. K. again , -- unless she lose her fortune , or get sick , or come to grief in any way .
We 'd lend her a hand then , would n't we , Polly ? ''
and Van 's mild face be pleasant to behold a he make the kindly proposition .
`` Well , we 'd think of it , '' say Polly , try not to relent , but feel that she be go very fast .
`` Let 's do it ! ''
cry Toady , fire with the thought of privy conspiracy and rebellion .
`` Mother would be so comfortable with Polly , and I 'd help Van in the store , when I 've learn that confounded multiplication table , '' he add with a groan ; `` and if Aunt Kipp come a visiting , we 'll just say ` Not at home , ' and let her trot off again . ''
`` It sound very nice , but aunt will be dreadfully offend and I do n't wish to be ungrateful , '' say Mrs . Snow , brighten visibly .
`` There 's no ingratitude about it , '' cry Van .
`` She might have do everything to make you love , and respect , and admire her , and be a happy , useful , motherly , old soul ; but she do n't choose to , and now she must take the consequence .
No one care for her , because she care for nobody ; her money 's the plague of her life , and not a single heart will ache when she die . ''
`` Poor Aunt Kipp ! ''
say Polly , softly .
Mrs . Snow echo the word , and for a moment all think pitifully of the woman whose life have give so little happiness , whose age have win so little reverence , and whose death would cause so little regret .
Even Toady have a kind thought for her , a he break the silence , say soberly , -- `` You 'd better put tail on my jacket , mother ; then the next time we get run away with , Aunt Kipp will have something to hold on by . ''
It be impossible to help laugh at the recollection of the old lady clutching at the boy till he have hardly a button left , and at the paternal air with which he now propose a much-desired change of costume , a if intent on Aunt Kipp 's future accommodation .
Under cover of the laugh , the old lady steal back to bed , wide awake , and with subject enough to meditate upon now .
The shake up have certainly do her good , for somehow the few virtue she possess come to the surface , and the mental shower-bath just receive have produce a salutary change .
Polly would n't have doubt her aunt 's possession of a heart , if she could have know the pain and loneliness that make it ache , a the old woman creep away ; and Toady would n't have laugh if he have see the tear on the face , between the big frill , a Aunt Kipp lay it on the pillow , muttering , drearily , -- `` I might have be a happy , useful woman , but I do n't choose to , and now it 's too late . ''
It be too late to be all she might have be , for the work of seventy selfish year could n't be undone in a minute .
But with regret , rise the sincere wish to earn a little love before the end come , and the old perversity give a relish to the reformation , for even while she resolve to do the just and generous thing , she say to herself , -- `` They say I 've get no heart ; I 'll show 'em that I have : they do n't want my money ; I 'll make 'em take it : they turn their back on me ; I 'll just render myself so useful and agreeable that they ca n't do without me . ''
III Aunt Kipp sit bolt upright in the parlor , hem a small handkerchief , adorn with a red ship , surround by a border of green monkey .
Toady suspect that this elegant article of dress be intend for him , and yearn to possess it ; so , take advantage of his mother 's and Polly 's absence , he stroll into the room , and , seat himself on a high , hard chair , fold his hand , cross his leg , and ask for a story with the thirsting-for-knowledge air which little boy wear in the moral story-books .
Now Aunt Kipp have one soft place in her heart , though it be partially ossified , a she very truly declare , and Toady be enshrine therein .
She think there never be such a child , and love him a she have do his father before him , though the rack would n't have force her to confess it .
She scold , snub , and predict he 'd come to a bad end in public ; but she forgive his naughty prank , always bring him something when she come , and privately intend to make his future comfortable with half of her fortune .
There be a dash and daring , a generosity and integrity , about the little fellow , that charm her .
Sophy be weak and low-spirited , Polly pretty and headstrong , and Aunt Kipp do n't think much of either of them ; but Toady defy , distract , and delight her , and to Toady she cling , a the one sunshiny thing in her sour , selfish old age .
When he make his demure request , she look at him , and her eye begin to twinkle , for the child 's purpose be plainly see in the loving glance cast upon the pictorial pocket-handkerchief .
`` A story ?
Yes , I 'll tell you one about a little boy who have a kind old -- ahem !
-- grandma .
She be rich , and have n't make up her mind who she 'd leave her money to .
She be fond of the boy , -- a deal fonder than he deserve , -- for he be as mischievous a monkey a any that ever live in a tree , with a curly tail .
He put pepper in her snuff-box , '' -- here Toady turn scarlett , -- `` he cut up her bestt frisette to make a mane for his rocking-horse , '' -- Toady open his mouth impulsively , but shut it again without betray himself -- `` he repeat rude thing to her , and call her ` an old aggrewater , ' '' -- here Toady wriggle in his chair , and give a little gasp .
`` If you be tire I wo n't go on , '' observe Aunt Kipp , mildly .
`` I 'm not tire , 'm ; it 's a very interesting story , '' reply Toady , with a gravity that nearly upset the old lady .
`` Well , in spite of all this , that kind , good , forgive grandma leave that bad boy twenty thousand dollar when she die .
What do you think of that ? ''
ask Aunt Kipp , pause suddenly with her sharp eye on him .
`` I -- I think she be a regular dear , '' cry Toady , hold on to the chair with both hand , a if that climax rather take him off his leg .
`` And what do the boy do about it ? ''
continued Aunt Kipp , curiously .
`` He buy a velocipede , and give his sister half , and pay his mother 's rent , and put a splendid marble cherakin over the old lady , and have a jolly good time , and -- '' `` What in the world be a cherakin ? ''
laugh Aunt Kipp , a Toady pause for breath .
`` Why , do n't you know ?
It 's a angel cry , or point up , or flap his wing .
They have them over graf ; and I 'll give you the big one I can find when you die .
But I 'm not in a very great hurry to have you . ''
`` Thankee , dear ; I 'm in no hurry , myself .
But , Toady , the boy do wrong in give his sister half ; she do n't deserve any ; and the grandma leave word she be n't to have a penny of it . ''
`` Really ? ''
cry the boy , with a troubled face .
`` Yes , really .
If he give her any he lose it all ; the old lady say so .
Now what do you think ? ''
ask Aunt Kipp , who find it impossible to pardon Polly , -- perhaps because she be young , and pretty , and much beloved .
Toady 's eye kindle , and his red cheek grow red still , a he cry out defiantly , -- `` I think she be a selfish pig , -- do n't you ? ''
`` No , I do n't , sir ; and I 'm sure that little boy be n't such a fool a to lose the money .
He mind his grandma 's wish , and keep it all . ''
`` No , he do n't , '' roar Toady , tumble off his chair in great excitement .
`` He just throw it out a winder , and smash the old cherakin all to bit . ''
Aunt Kipp drop her work with a shrill squeak , for she think the boy be dangerous , a he stand before her , spar away at nothing a the only vent for his indignation .
`` It be n't an interesting story , '' he cry ; `` and I wo n't hear any more ; and I wo n't have your money if I may n't go half with Polly ; and I 'll work to earn more than that , and we 'll all be jolly together , and you may give your twenty thousand to the old rag-bags , and so I tell you , Aunt Kipp . ''
`` Why , Toady , my boy , what 's the matter ? ''
cry a mild voice at the door , a young Lamb come trot up to the rescue .
`` Never you mind , Baa-baa ; I sha n't do it ; and it 's a mean shame Polly ca n't have half ; then she could marry you and be so happy , '' blubber Toady , run to try to hide his tear of disappointment in the coat-skirts of his friend .
`` Mr. Lamb , I suppose you be that misguided young man ? ''
say Aunt Kipp , a if it be a personal insult to herself .
`` Van Bahr Lamb , ma'am , if you please .
Yes , thank you , '' murmur Baa-Baa , bowing , blushing , and rumple his curly fleece in bashful trepidation .
`` Do n't thank me , '' cry the old lady .
`` I 'm not go to give you anything , -- far from it .
I object to you altogether .
What business have you to come court my niece ? ''
`` Because I love her , ma'am , '' return Van , with unexpected spirit .
`` No , you do n't ; you want her money , or rather my money .
She depend on it ; but you 'll both be disappoint , for she wo n't have a penny of it , '' cry Aunt Kipp , who , in spite of her good resolution , find it impossible to be amiable all at once .
`` I 'm glad of it ! ''
burst out Van , indignant at her accusation .
`` I do n't want Polly for the money ; I always doubt if she get it ; and I never wish her to make herself a slave to anybody .
I 've get enough for all , if we 're careful ; and when my share of the Van Bahr property come , we shall live in clover . ''
`` What 's that ?
What property be you talk of ? ''
demanded Aunt Kipp , prick up her ear .
`` The great Van Bahr estate , ma'am .
There have be a long lawsuit about it , but it 's nearly settle , and there be n't much doubt that we shall get it .
I be the last of our branch , and my share will be a large one . ''
`` Oh , indeed !
I wish you joy , '' say Aunt Kipp , with sudden affability ; for she adore wealth , like a few other person in the world .
`` But suppose you do n't get it , how then ? ''
`` Then I shall try to be content with my salary of two thousand , and make Polly as happy a I can .
Money do n't always make people happy or agreeable , I find . ''
And Van look at Aunt Kipp in a way that would have make her hair stand erect if she have possess any .
She star at him a moment , then , obey one of the odd whim that make an irascible weathercock of her , she say , abruptly , -- `` If you have capital should you go into business for yourself , Mr. Lambkin ? ''
`` Yes , ma'am , at once , '' reply Van , promptly .
`` Suppose you lose the Van Bahr money , and some one offer you a tidy little sum to start with , would you take it ? ''
`` It would depend upon who make the offer , ma'am , '' say Van , look more like a sheep than ever , a he stand star in blank surprise .
`` Suppose it be me , would n't you take it ? ''
ask Aunt Kipp , blandly , for the new fancy please her .
`` No , thank you , ma'am , '' say Van , decidedly .
`` And why not , pray ? ''
cry the old lady , with a shrillness that make him jump , and Toady back to the door precipitately .
`` Because , if you 'll excuse my speak plainly , I think you owe anything you may have to spare to your niece , Mrs . Snow ; '' and , have free his mind , Van join Toady , ready to fly if necessary .
`` You 're an idiot , sir , '' begin Aunt Kipp , in a rage again .
`` Thank you , ma'am . ''
And Van actually laugh and bow in return for the compliment .
`` Hold your tongue , sir , '' snap the old lady .
`` You 're a fool and Sophy be another .
She 's no strength of mind , no sense about anything ; and would make duck and drake of my money in less than no time if I give it to her , a I 've think of do . ''
`` Mrs. Kipp , you forget who you be speak to .
Mrs . Snow 's son love and respect her if you do n't , and they wo n't hear anything untrue or unkind say of a good woman , a devoted mother , and an almost friendless widow . ''
Van be n't a dignified man at all , but a he say that with a sudden flash of his mild eye , there be something in his face and manner that daunt Aunt Kipp more than the small fist belligerently shake at her from behind the sofa .
The poor old soul be cross , and worry , and ashamed of herself , and be as feeble-minded a Sophy in many respect , she suddenly burst into tear , and , cover her face with the gay handkerchief , cry a if bent on float the red ship in a sea of salt water without delay .
`` I 'm a poor , lonely , abuse old woman , '' she moan , with a green monkey at each eye .
`` No one love me , or mind me , or thanks me when I want to help 'em .
My money 's only a worryment and a burden , and I do n't know what to do with it , for people I do n't want to leave it to ought to have it , and people I do like wo n't take it .
Oh , deary me , what shall I do !
what shall I do ! ''
`` Shall I tell you , ma'am ? ''
ask Van , gently , for , though she be a very provoking old lady , he pity and wish to help her .
A nod and a gurgle seem to give consent , and , boldly advance , Van say , with blush and a stammer , but a very hearty voice , -- `` I think , ma'am , if you 'd do the right thing with your money you 'd be at ease and find it save a deal of worry all round .
Give it to Mrs . Snow ; she deserve it , poor lady , for she 's have a hard time , and do her duty faithfully .
Do n't wait till you be -- that be , till you -- well , till you in point of fact die , ma'am .
Give it now , and enjoy the happiness it will make .
Give it kindly , let them see you 're glad to do it , and I be sure you 'll find them grateful ; I 'm sure you wo n't be lonely any more , or feel that you be not love and thank .
Try it , ma'am , just try it , '' cry Van , get excite by the picture he draw .
`` And I give you my word I 'll do my best to respect and love you like a son , ma'am . ''
He know that he be promise a great deal , but for Polly 's sake he felt that he could make even that Herculean effort .
Aunt Kipp be surprise and touch ; but the contrary old lady could n't make up her mind to yield so soon , and would n't have do it if Toady have n't take her by storm .
Having a truly masculine horror of tear , a very tender heart under his tailless jacket , and be much `` tumble up and down in his own mind '' by the event of the week , the poor little lad felt nerve to attempt any novel enterprise , even that of voluntarily embrace Aunt Kipp .
First a grimy little hand come on her shoulder , a she sit sniff behind the handkerchief ; then , peep out , she saw an apple-cheeked face very near her own , with eye full of pity , penitence , and affection ; and then she hear a choky little voice say earnestly , -- `` Do n't cry , aunty ; I 'm sorry I be rude .
Please be good to Mother and Polly , and I 'll love and take care of you , and stand by you all my life .
Yes , I 'll -- I 'll kiss you , I will , by George ! ''
And with one promiscuous plunge the Spartan boy cast himself into her arm .
That finish Aunt Kipp ; she hug him dose , and cry out with a salute that go off like a pistol-shot , -- `` Oh , my dear , my dear !
this be good than a dozen cherakins ! ''
When Toady emerge , somewhat flushed and tumble , Mrs . Snow , Polly , and Van be look on with face full of wonder , doubt , and satisfaction .
To be an object of interest be agreeable to Aunt Kipp ; and , a her old heart be really soften , she meet them with a gracious smile , and extend the olive-branch generally .
`` Sophy , I shall give my money to you at once and entirely , only ask that you 'll let me stay with you when Polly 's go .
I 'll do my best to be agreeable , and you 'll bear with me because I 'm a cranky , solitary old woman , and I love your husband . ''
Mrs . Snow hug her on the spot , and gush , of course , murmur thanks , welcome , and promise in one grateful burst .
`` Polly , I forgive you ; I consent to your marriage , and will provide your wedding finery .
Mr. Lamb , you be not a fool , but a very excellent young man .
I thank you for save my life , and I wish you well with all my heart .
You need n't say anything .
I 'm far from strong , and all this agitation be shorten my life . ''
Polly and Van shake her hand heartily , and beam upon each other like a pair of infatuated turtle-doves with good prospect .
`` Toady , you be a near an angel a a boy can be .
Put a name to whatever you most wish for in the world , and it 's yours , '' say Aunt Kipp , dramatically wave the rest away .
With his short leg wide apart , his hand behind him , and his rosy face a round and radiant a a rise sun , Toady stand before the fire survey the scene with the air of a man who have successfully carry through a difficult and dangerous undertaking , and be n't proud .
His face brighten , then fell , a he heave a sigh , and answer , with a shake of his curly head , -- `` You ca n't give me what I want most .
There be three thing , and I 've get to wait for them all . ''
`` Gracious me , what be they ? ''
cry the old lady , good-naturedly , for she felt well already .
`` A mustache , a beaver , and a sweetheart , '' answer Toady , with his eye fix wistfully on Baa-baa , who possess all these blessing , and be particularly enjoy the latter at that moment .
How Aunt Kipp do laugh at this early budding of romance in her pet !
And all the rest join her , for Toady 's sentimental air be irresistible .
`` You precocious chick !
I dare say you will have them all before we know where we be .
Never mind , deary ; you shall have my little watch , and the silver-headed cane with a boar 's head on it , '' answer the old lady , in high good-humor .
`` You need n't blush , dear ; I do n't bear malice ; so let 's forget and forgive .
I shall settle thing to-morrow , and have a free mind .
You be welcome to my money , and I hope I shall live to see you all enjoy it . ''
So she do ; for she live to see Sophy plump , cheery , and care-free ; Polly surround by a flock of Lambkins ; Van in possession of a generous slice of the Van Bahr fortune ; Toady revel in the object of his desire ; and , best of all , she live to find that it be never too late to make oneself useful , happy , and beloved .
PSYCHE 'S ART `` Handsome be that handsome do . ''
I Once upon a time there rag in a certain city one of those fashionable epidemic which occasionally attack our youthful population .
It be n't the music mania , nor gymnastic convulsion , nor that wide-spread malady , croquet .
Neither be it one of the new dance which , like a tarantula-bite , set every one a twirling , nor stage madness , nor yet that American lecturing influenza which yearly sweep over the land .
No , it be a new disease call the Art fever , and it attack the young woman of the community with great violence .
Nothing but time could cure it , and it run it course to the dismay , amusement , or edification of the beholder , for it victim do all manner of queer thing in their delirium .
They beg pottery for clay , drive Italian plaster-corkers out of their wit with unexecutable order get neuralgia and rheumatism sketch perch on fence and tree like artistic hen , and cause a rise in the price of bread , paper , and charcoal , by their ardor in crayoning .
They cover canvas with the expedition of scene-painters , have class , lecture , reception , and exhibition , make model of each other , and render their wall hideous with bad likeness of all their friend .
Their conversation cease to be intelligible to the uninitiated , and they prattle prettily of `` chiaro oscuro , French sauce , refraction of the angle of the eye , seventh spinus process , depth and juiciness of color , tender touch , and a good tone . ''
Even in dress the artistic disorder be visible ; some cast aside crinoline altogether , and stalk about with a severe simplicity of outline worthy of Flaxman .
Others flush themselves with scarlet , that no landscape which they adorn should be without some touch of Turner 's favorite tint .
Some be blue in every sense of the word , and the head of all be adorn with classic braid , curl tie Hebe-wise , or hair dress a la hurricane .
It be find impossible to keep them safe at home , and , a the fever grow , these harmless maniac invade the sacred retreat where artist of the other sex do congregate , startle those anchorite with vision of large-eyed damsel bear portfolio in hand delicately begrime with crayon , chalk , and clay , glide through the corridor hitherto haunt only by shabby paletots , shadowy hat , and cigar smoke .
This irruption be borne with manly fortitude , not to say cheerfulness , for studio door stand hospitably open a the fair invader pass , and study from life be generously offer them in glimpse of picturesque gentleman pose before easel , brood over master-pieces in `` a divine despair , '' or attitudinize upon couch a if exhaust by the soaring of genius .
An atmosphere of romance begin to pervade the old building when the girl come , and nature and art take turn .
There be peepings and whispering , much stifle laughter and whisking in and out ; not to mention the accidental rencontres , small service , and eye telegram , which somewhat lighten the severe study of all party .
Half a dozen young victim of this malady meet daily in one of the cell of a great art beehive call `` Raphael 's Rooms , '' and devote their shining hour to model fancy head , gossip the while ; for the poor thing find the road to fame rather dull and dusty without such verbal sprinkling .
`` Psyche Dean , you 've have an adventure !
I see it in your face ; so tell it at once , for we be stupid a owl here to-day , '' cry one of the sisterhood , a a bright-eyed girl enter with some precipitation .
`` I drop my portfolio , and a man pick it up , that 's all . ''
reply Psyche , hurry on her gray linen pinafore .
`` That wo n't do ; I know something interesting happen , for you 've be blush , and you look brisk than usual this morning , '' say the first speaker , polish off the massive nose of her Homer .
`` It be n't anything , '' begin Psyche a little reluctantly .
`` I be come up in a hurry when I run against a man come down in a hurry .
My portfolio slip , and my paper go fly all about the landing .
Of course we both laugh and beg pardon , and I begin to pick them up , but he would n't let me ; so I hold the book while he collect the sketch .
I saw him glance at them a he do so , and that make me blush , for they be wretched thing , you know . ''
`` Not a bit of it ; they be capital , and you be a regular genius , a we all agree , '' cut in the Homeric Miss Cutter .
`` Never tell people they be genius unless you wish to spoil them , '' return Psyche severely .
`` Well , when the portfolio be put to right I be go on , but he fell to pick up a little bunch of violet I have drop ; you know I always wear a posy into town to give me inspiration .
I do n't care for the dusty flower , and tell him so , and hurry away before any one come .
At the top of the stair I peep over the railing , and there he be , gather up every one of those half-dead violet as carefully a if they have be tea-roses . ''
`` Psyche Dean , you have meet your fate this day ! ''
exclaim a third damsel , with straw-colored tress , and a good deal of weedy shrubbery in her hat , which give an Ophelia-like expression to her sentimental countenance .
Psyche frown and shake her head , a if half sorry she have tell her little story .
`` Was he handsome ? ''
ask Miss Larkins , the believer in fate .
`` I do n't particularly observe . ''
`` It be the red-headed man , whom we call Titian : he 's always on the stair . ''
`` No , it be n't ; his hair be brown and curly , '' cry Psyche , innocently fall into the trap .
`` Like Peerybingle 's baby when it cap be take off , '' quote Miss Dickenson , who pin to drop the last two letter of her name .
`` Was it Murillo , the black-eyed one ? ''
ask the fair Cutter , for the girl have a name for all the attitudinizers and promenaders whom they oftenest meet .
`` No , he have gray eye , and very fine one they be too , '' answer Psyche , add , a if to herself , `` he look a I imagine Michael Angelo might have look when young . ''
`` Had he a broken nose , like the great Mike ? ''
ask an irreverent damsel .
`` If he have , no one would mind it , for his head be splendid ; he take his hat off , so I have a fine view .
He be n't handsome , but he 'll do something , '' say Psyche , prophetically , a she recall the strong , ambitious face which she have often observe , but never mention before .
`` Well , dear , consider that you do n't ` particularly look ' at the man , you 've give u a very good idea of his appearance .
We 'll call him Michael Angelo , and he shall be your idol .
I prefer stout old Rembrandt myself , and Larkie adore that dandify Raphael , '' say the lively Cutter , slap away at Homer 's bald pate energetically , a she speak .
`` Raphael be a dear , but Rubens be more to my taste now , '' return Miss Larkins .
`` He be in the hall yesterday talk with Sir Joshua , who have his inevitable umbrella , like a true Englishman .
Just a I come up , the umbrella fell right before me .
I start back ; Sir Joshua laugh , but Rubens say , ` Deuce take it ! '
and catch up the umbrella , give me a never-to-be-forgotten look .
It be perfectly thrill . ''
`` Which , -- the umbrella , the speech , or the look ? ''
ask Psyche , who be not sentimental .
`` Ah , you have no soul for art in nature , and nature in art , '' sigh the amber-tressed Larkins .
`` I have , for I fee upon a glance , a tint , a curve , with exquisite delight .
Rubens be adorable -LRB- a a study -RRB- ; that lustrous eye , that night of hair , that sumptuous cheek , be perfect .
He only need a cloak , lace collar , and slouch hat to be the genuine thing . ''
`` This be n't the genuine thing by any mean .
What do it need ? ''
say Psyche , look with a despondent air at the head on her stand .
Many would have pronounce it a clever thing ; the nose be strictly Greek , the chin curve upward gracefully , the mouth be sweetly haughty , the brow classically smooth and low , and the breezy hair well do .
But something be want ; Psyche felt that , and could have take her Venus by the dimpled shoulder , and give her a hearty shake , if that would have put strength and spirit into the lifeless face .
`` Now I be perfectly satisfy with my Apollo , though you all insist that it be the image of Theodore Smythe .
He say so himself , and assure me it will make a sensation when we exhibit , '' remark Miss Larkins , complacently caress the ambrosial lock of her Smythified Phebus .
`` What shall you do if it do not ? ''
ask Miss Cutter , with elegance .
`` I shall feel that I have mistake my sphere , shall drop my tool , veil my bust , and cast myself into the arm of Nature , since Art reject me ; '' reply Miss Larkins , with a tragic gesture and an expression which strongly suggest that in her eye nature mean Theodore .
`` She must have capacious arm if she be to receive all Art 's rejected admirer .
Shall I be one of them ? ''
Psyche put the question to herself a she turn to work , but somehow ambitious aspiration be not in a flourishing condition that morning ; her heart be not in tune , and head and hand sympathize .
Nothing go well , for certain neglected home-duties have dog her into town , and now worry her more than dust , or heat , or the ceaseless clatter of tongue .
Tom , Dick , and Harry 's unmended hose persist in dance a spectral jig before her mental eye , mother 's querulous complaint spoil the song she hum to cheer herself , and little May 's wistful face put the goddess of beauty entirely out of countenance .
`` It 's no use ; I ca n't work till the clay be wet again .
Where be Giovanni ? ''
she ask , throw down her tool with a petulant gesture and a dejected air .
`` He be probably play truant in the empty upper room , a usual .
I ca n't wait for him any longer , so I 'm do his work myself , '' answer Miss Dickenson , who be tenderly wind a wet bandage round her Juno 's face , one side of which be so much plump than the other that it look a if the Queen of Olympus be be hydropathically treat for a severe fit of ague .
`` I 'll go and find the little scamp ; a run will do me good ; so will a breath of air and a view of the park from the upper window . ''
Doffing her apron , Psyche stroll away up an unfrequented staircase to the empty apartment , which seem to be too high even for the lover of High Art .
On the western side they be shady and cool , and , lean from one of the window , Psyche watch the feathery tree-tops ruffle by the balmy wind , that bring spring odor from the hill , lie green and sunny far away .
Silence and solitude be such pleasant companion that the girl forget herself , till a shrill whistle disturb her day-dreams , and remind her what she come for .
Following the sound she find the little Italian errand-boy busily uncover a clay model which stand in the middle of a scantily furnished room near by .
`` He be not here ; come and look ; it be greatly beautiful , '' cry Giovanni , beckon with an air of importance .
Psyche do look and speedily forget both her errand and herself .
It be the figure of a man , stand erect , and look straight before him with a wonderfully lifelike expression .
It be neither a mythological nor a historical character , Psyche think , and be glad of it , be tire to death of god and hero .
She soon cease to wonder what it be , feel only the indescribable charm of something high than beauty .
Small a her knowledge be , she could see and enjoy the power visible in every part of it ; the accurate anatomy of the vigorous limb , the grace of the pose , the strength and spirit in the countenance , clay though it be .
A majestic figure , but the spell lay in the face , which , while it suggest the divine , be full of human truth and tenderness , for pain and passion seem to have pass over it , and a humility half pathetic , a courage half heroic seem to have be bear from some great loss or woe .
How long she stand there Psyche do not know .
Giovanni go away unseen , to fill his water-pail , and in the silence she just stand and look .
Her eye kindle , her color rise , despondency and discontent vanish , and her soul be in her face , for she love beauty passionately , and all that be best and true in her do honor to the genius of the unknown worker .
`` If I could do a thing like that , I 'd die happy ! ''
she exclaim impetuously , a a feeling of despair come over her at the thought of her own poor attempt .
`` Who do it , Giovanni ? ''
she ask , still look up at the grand face with unsatisfied eye .
`` Paul Gage . ''
It be not the boy 's voice , and , with a start , Psyche turn to see her Michael Angelo , stand in the doorway , attentively observe her .
Being too full of artless admiration to think of herself just yet , she neither blush nor apologized , but look straight at him , say heartily , -- `` You have do a wonderful piece of work , and I envy you more than I can tell ! ''
The enthusiasm in her face , the frankness of her manner , seem to please him , for there be no affectation about either .
He give her a keen , kind glance out of the `` fine gray eye , '' a little bow , and a grateful smile , say quietly , -- `` Then my Adam be not a failure in spite of his fall ? ''
Psyche turn from the sculptor to his model with increased admiration in her face , and earnestness in her voice , a she exclaim delighted , -- `` Adam !
I might have know it be he .
O sir , you have indeed succeed , for you have give that figure the power and pathos of the first man who sin and suffer , and begin again . ''
`` Then I be satisfied . ''
That be all he say , but the look he give his work be a very eloquent one , for it betray that he have pay the price of success in patience and privation , labor and hope .
`` What can one do to learn your secret ? ''
ask the girl wistfully , for there be nothing in the man 's manner to disturb her self-forgetful mood , but much to foster it , because to the solitary worker this confide guest be as welcome a the dove who often hop in at his window .
`` Work and wait , and meantime feed heart , soul , and imagination with the best food one can get , '' he answer slowly , find it impossible to give a receipt for genius .
`` I can work and wait a long time to gain my end ; but I do n't know where to find the food you speak of ? ''
she answer , look at him like a hungry child .
`` I wish I could tell you , but each need different fare , and each must look for it in different place . ''
The kindly tone and the sympathizing look , as well a the line in his forehead , and a few gray hair among the brown , give Psyche courage to say more .
`` I love beauty so much that I not only want to possess it myself , but to gain the power of see it in all thing , and the art of reproduce it with truth .
I have try very hard to do it , but something be want ; and in spite of my intense desire I never get on . ''
As she speak the girl 's eye fill and fell in spite of herself , and turn a little with sudden shamefacedness she saw , lie on the table beside her among other scrap in manuscript and print , the well-known line , -- `` I sleep , and dream that life be beauty ; I wake , and find that life be duty .
Was thy dream then a shadowy lie ?
Toil on , sad heart , courageously , And thou shall find thy dream to be A noonday light and truth to thee . ''
She know them at a glance , have read them many time , but now they come home to her with sudden force , and , see that his eye have follow hers , she say in her impulsive fashion .
-- `` Is do one 's duty a good way to fee heart , soul , and imagination ? ''
As if he have catch a glimpse of what be go on in her mind , Paul answer emphatically , -- `` Excellent ; for if one be good , one be happy , and if happy , one can work well .
Moulding character be the high sort of sculpture , and all of u should learn that art before we touch clay or marble . ''
He speak with the energy of a man who believe what he say , and do his best to be worthy of the rich gift bestow upon him .
The sight of her violet in a glass of water , and Giovanni staring at her with round eye , suddenly recall Psyche to a sense of the propriety which she have be innocently outrage for the last ten minute .
A sort of panic seize her ; she blush deeply , retreat precipitately to the door , and vanish , murmur thanks and apology a she go .
`` Did you find him ?
I think you have forget , '' say Miss Dickenson , now hard at work .
`` Yes , I find him .
No , I shall not forget , '' return Psyche , thinking of Gage , not Giovanni .
She stand before her work eye it intently for several minute ; then , with an expression of great contempt for the whole thing , she suddenly tilt her cherish Venus on to the floor , give the classical face a finishing crunch , and put on her hat in a decisive manner , say briefly to the dismayed damsel , -- `` Good-by , girl ; I sha n't come any more , for I 'm go to work at home hereafter . ''
II The prospect of pursue artistic study at home be not brilliant , a one may imagine when I mention that Psyche 's father be a painfully prosaic man , wrapt in flannel , so to speak ; for his woollen mill leave him no time for anything but sleep , food , and newspaper .
Mrs. Dean be one of those exasperate woman who pervade their mansion like a domestic steam-engine one week and take to their sofa the next , absorb by fidget and foot-stoves , shawl and lamentation .
There be three riotous and robust young brother , whom it be unnecessary to describe except by state that they be boy in the broad sense of that delightful word .
There be a feeble little sister , whose patient , suffer face demand constant love and care to mitigate the weariness of a life of pain .
And last , but not least by any mean , there be two Irish lady , who , with the best intention imaginable , produce a universal state of topsy-turviness when left to themselves for a moment .
But be very much in earnest about do her duty , not because it be her duty , but a a mean toward an end , Psyche fell to work with a will , hop to serve both master at once .
So she might have do , perhaps , if flesh and blood have be as plastic a clay , but the live model be so exact in their demand upon her time and strength , that the poor statue go to the wall .
Sculpture and sewing , call and crayon , Ruskin and receipt-books , do n't work well together , and poor Psyche find duty and desire desperately antagonistic .
Take a day a a sample .
`` The washing and ironing be well over , thank goodness , mother quiet , the boy out of the way , and May comfortable , so I 'll indulge myself in a blissful day after my own heart , '' Psyche say , a she shut herself into her little studio , and prepare to enjoy a few hour of hard study and happy day-dreams .
With a book on her lap , and her own round white arm go through all manner of queer evolution , she be placidly repeating , `` Deltoides , Biceps , Triceps , Pronator , Supinator , Palmanis , Flexor carpi ulnaris -- '' `` Here 's Flexis what-you-call-ums for you , '' interrupt a voice , which begin in a shrill falsetto and end in a gruff bass , a a flushed , dusty , long-legged boy burst in , with a bleeding hand obligingly extend for inspection .
`` Mercy on u , Harry !
what have you do to yourself now ?
Split your finger with a cricket-ball again ? ''
cry Psyche , a her arm go up and her book go down .
`` I just thrash one of the fellow because he get mad and say father be go to fail . ''
`` O Harry , be he ? ''
`` Of course he be n't !
It 's hard time for every one , but father will pull through all right .
No use to try and explain it all ; girl ca n't understand business ; so you just tie me up , and do n't worry , '' be the characteristic reply of the young man , who , be three year her junior , of course treat the weak vessel with lordly condescension .
`` What a dreadful wound !
I hope nothing be break , for I have n't study the hand much yet , and may do mischief do it up , '' say Psyche , examine the great grimy paw with tender solicitude .
`` Much good your biceps , and deltoid , and thing do you , if you ca n't right up a little cut like that , '' squeak the ungrateful hero .
`` I 'm not go to be a surgeon , thank heaven ; I intend to make perfect hand and arm , not mend damage one , '' retort Psyche , in a dignified tone , somewhat mar by a great piece of court-plaster on her tongue .
`` I should say a surgeon could improve that perfect thing , if he do n't die a-laughing before he begin , '' growl Harry , point with a scornful grin at a clay arm humpy with muscle , all carefully develop in the wrong place .
`` Do n't sneer , Hal , for you do n't know anything about it .
Wait a few year and see if you 're not proud of me . ''
`` Sculp away and do something , then I 'll hurrah for your mud-pies like a good one ; '' with which cheer promise the youth leave , have effectually disturb his sister 's peaceful mood .
Anxious thought of her father render `` biceps , deltoid , and thing '' uninteresting , and hop to compose her mind , she take up The Old Painters and go on with the story of Claude Lorraine .
She have just reach the tender scene where , -- `` Calista gaze with enthusiasm , while she look like a be of heaven rather than earth .
` My friend , ' she cry , ' I read in thy picture thy immortality ! '
As she speak , her head sunk upon his bosom , and it be several moment before Claude perceive that he support a lifeless form . ''
`` How sweet ! ''
say Psyche , with a romantic sigh .
`` Faith , and swate it be , thin ! ''
echoed Katy , whose red head have just appear round the half open door .
`` It 's gingy-bread I 'm make the day , miss , and will I be puttin ' purlash or sallyrathis into it , if ye plase ? ''
`` Purlash , by all mean , '' return the girl , keep her countenance , fear to enrage Katy by a laugh ; for the angry passion of the red-haired one rise more quickly than her bread .
As she depart with alacrity to add a spoonful of starch and a pinch of white to her cake , Psyche , feel well for her story and her smile , put on her bib and paper cap and fell to work on the deformed arm .
An hour of bliss , then come a ring at the door-bell , follow by Biddy to announce caller , and add that a `` the mistress be in her bed , miss must go and take care of 'em . ''
Whereat `` miss '' cast down her tool in despair , throw her cap one way , her bib another , and go in to her guest with anything but a rapturous welcome .
Dinner be accomplish after much rush up and down stair with tray and message for Mrs. Dean , Psyche flee again to her studio , order no one to approach under pain of a scolding .
All go well till , go in search of something , she find her little sister sit on the floor with her cheek against the studio door .
`` I do n't mean to be naughty , Sy , but mother be asleep , and the boy all go , so I just come to be near you ; it 's so lonely everywhere , '' she say , apologetically , a she lift up the heavy head that always ache .
`` The boy be very thoughtless .
Come in and stay with me ; you be such a mouse you wo n't disturb me .
Would n't you like to play be a model and let me draw your arm , and tell you all about the nice little bone and muscle ? ''
ask Psyche , who have the fever very strong upon her just then .
May do n't look a if the propose amusement overwhelm her with delight , but meekly consent to be perch upon a high stool with one arm prop up by a dropsical plaster cherub , while Psyche draw busily , feel that duty and pleasure be be delightfully combine .
`` Ca n't you hold your arm still , child ?
It shake so I ca n't get it right , '' she say , rather impatiently .
`` No , it will tremble 'cause it 's weak .
I try hard , Sy , but there do n't seem to be much strongness in me lately . ''
`` That 's good ; keep it so a few minute and I 'll be do , '' cry the artist , forget that a few minute may seem age .
`` My arm be so thin you can see the bunch nicely , -- ca n't you ? ''
`` Yes , dear . ''
Psyche glance up at the wasted limb , and when she draw again there be a blur before her eye for a minute .
`` I wish I be as fat a this white boy ; but I get thin every day somehow , and pretty soon there wo n't be any of me leave but my little bone , '' say the child , look at the winged cherub with sorrowful envy .
`` Do n't , my darling ; do n't say that , '' cry Psyche , drop her work with a sudden pang at her heart .
`` I 'm a sinful , selfish girl to keep you here !
you 're weak for want of air ; come out and see the chicken , and pick dandelion , and have a good romp with the boy . ''
The weak arm be strong enough to clasp Psyche 's neck , and the tired face brighten beautifully a the child exclaim , with grateful delight , -- `` Oh , I 'd like it very much !
I want to go dreadfully ; but everybody be so busy all the time .
I do n't want to play , Sy ; but just to lie on the grass with my head in your lap while you tell story and draw me pretty thing a you use to . ''
The studio be desert all that afternoon , for Psyche sit in the orchard draw squirrel on the wall , pert robin hop by , buttercup and moss , elf and angel ; while May lay contentedly enjoy sun and air , sisterly care , and the `` pretty thing '' she love so well .
Psyche do not find the task a hard one ; for this time her heart be in it , and if she need any reward she surely find it ; for the little face on her knee lose it weary look , and the peace and beauty of nature soothe her own troubled spirit , cheer her heart , and do her more good than hour of solitary study .
Finding , much to her own surprise , that her fancy be teem with lovely conceit , she do hope for a quiet evening .
But mother want a bit of gossip , father must have his paper read to him , the boy have lesson and rip and grievance to be attend to , May 's lullaby could not be forget , and the maid have to be look after , l burly `` cousin '' should be hide in the boiler , or lucifer match among the shaving .
So Psyche 's day end , leave her very tired , rather discourage , and almost heart-sick with the shadow of a come sorrow .
All summer she do her best , but accomplish very little , a she think ; yet this be the teach she most need , and in time she come to see it .
In the autumn May die , whisper , with her arm about her sister 's neck , -- `` You make me so happy , Sy , I would n't mind the pain if I could stay a little long .
But if I ca n't , good-by , dear , good-by . ''
Her last look and word and kiss be all for Psyche , who felt then with grateful tear that her summer have not be waste ; for the smile upon the little dead face be more to her than any marble perfection her hand could have carve .
In the solemn pause which death make in every family , Psyche say , with the sweet self-forgetfulness of a strong yet tender nature , -- `` I must not think of myself , but try to comfort them ; '' and with this resolution she give herself heart and soul to duty , never thinking of reward .
A busy , anxious , humdrum winter , for , a Harry say , `` it be hard time for every one . ''
Mr. Dean grow gray with the weight of business care about which he never speak ; Mrs. Dean , labor under the delusion that an invalid be a necessary appendage to the family , instal herself in the place the child 's death leave vacant , and the boy need much comforting , for the poor lad never know how much they love `` the baby '' till the little chair stand empty .
All turn to Sy for help and consolation , and her strength seem to increase with the demand upon it .
Patience and cheerfulness , courage and skill come at her call like good fairy who have bid their time .
Housekeeping cease to be hateful , and peace reign in parlor and kitchen while Mrs. Dean , shroud in shawl , read Hahnemann 's Lesser Writings on her sofa .
Mr. Dean sometimes forget his mill when a bright face come to meet him , a gentle hand smooth the wrinkle out of his anxious forehead , and a daughterly heart sympathize with all his care .
The boy find home very pleasant with Sy always there ready to `` lend a hand , '' whether it be to make fancy tie , help conjugate `` a confounded verb , '' pull candy , or sing sweetly in the twilight when all thought of little May and grow quiet .
The studio door remain locked till her brother beg Psyche to open it and make a bust of the child .
A flush of joy swept over her face at the request , and her patient eye grow bright and eager , a a thirsty traveller 's might at the sight or sound of water .
Then it fade a she shake her head , say with a regretful sigh , `` I 'm afraid I 've lose the little skill I ever have . ''
But she try , and with great wonder and delight discover that she could work a she have never do before .
She think the newly find power lay in her longing to see the little face again ; for it grow like magic under her loving hand , while every tender memory , sweet thought , and devout hope she have ever cherish , seem to lend their aid .
But when it be do and welcome with tear and smile , and praise more precious than any the world could give , then Psyche say within herself , like one who saw light at last , -- `` He be right ; do one 's duty be the way to fee heart , soul , and imagination ; for if one be good , one be happy , and if happy , one can work well . ''
III `` She break her head and go home to come no more , '' be Giovanni 's somewhat startle answer when Paul ask about Psyche , find that he no longer meet her on the stair or in the hall .
He understand what the boy meant , and with an approve nod turn to his work again , say , `` I like that !
If there be any power in her , she have take the right way to find it out , I suspect . ''
How she prosper he never ask ; for , though he meet her more than once that year , the interview be brief one in street , concert-room , or picture-gallery , and she carefully avoid speaking of herself .
But , possess the gifted eye which can look below the surface of thing , he detect in the girl 's face something good than beauty , though each time he saw it , it look old and more thoughtful , often anxious and sad .
`` She be get on , '' he say to himself with a cordial satisfaction which give his manner a friendliness a grateful to Psyche a his wise reticence .
Adam be finish at last , prove a genuine success , and Paul heartily enjoy the well-earned reward for year of honest work .
One blithe May morning , he slip early into the art-gallery , where the statue now stood , to look at his creation with paternal pride .
He be quite alone with the stately figure that shine white against the purple drapery and seem to offer him a voiceless welcome from it marble lip .
He give it one love look , and then forget it , for at the foot of his Adam lay a handful of wild violet , with the dew still on them .
A sudden smile break over his face a he take them up , with the thought , `` She have be here and find my work good . ''
For several moment he stand thoughtfully turn the flower to and fro in his hand ; then , a if decide some question within himself , he say , still smile , -- `` It be just a year since she go home ; she must have accomplish something in that time ; I 'll take the violet a a sign that I may go and ask her what . ''
He know she live just out of the city , between the river and the mill , and a he leave the street behind him , he find more violet bloom all along the way like flowery guide to lead him right .
Greener grow the road , balmy blow the wind , and blither sing the bird , a he go on , enjoy his holiday with the zest of a boy , until he reach a most attractive little path wind away across the field .
The gate swung invitingly open , and all the ground before it be blue with violet .
Still follow their guidance he take the narrow path , till , come to a mossy stone beside a brook , he sit down to listen to the blackbird sing deliciously in the willow over head .
Close by the stone , half hidden in the grass lay a little book , and , take it up he find it be a pocket-diary .
No name appear on the fly-leaf , and , turn the page to find some clue to it owner , he read here and there enough to give him glimpse into an innocent and earnest heart which seem to be learn some hard lesson patiently .
Only near the end do he find the clue in word of his own , speak long ago , and a name .
Then , though long intensely to know more , he shut the little book and go on , show by his altered face that the simple record of a girl 's life have touch him deeply .
Soon an old house appear nestle to the hillside with the river shining in the low green meadow just before it .
`` She live there , '' he say , with as much certainty a if the pansy by the door-stone spell her name , and , knock , he ask for Psyche .
`` She 's go to town , but I expect her home every minute .
Ask the gentleman to walk in and wait , Katy , '' cry a voice from above , where the whisk of skirt be follow by the appearance of an inquiring eye over the banister .
The gentleman do walk in , and while he wait look about him .
The room , though very simply furnish , have a good deal of beauty in it , for the picture be few and well choose , the book such a never grow old , the music lie on the well-worn piano of the sort which be never out of fashion , and stand somewhat apart be one small statue in a recess full of flower .
Lovely in it simple grace and truth be the figure of a child look upward a if watch the airy flight of some butterfly which have evidently escape from the chrysalis still lie in the little hand .
Paul be look at it with approve eye when Mrs. Dean appear with his card in her hand , three shawl on her shoulder , and in her face a somewhat startled expression , a if she expect some novel demonstration from the man whose genius her daughter so much admire .
`` I hope Miss Psyche be well , '' begin Paul , with great discrimination if not originality .
The delightfully commonplace remark tranquillize Mrs. Dean at once , and , take off the upper shawl with a fussy gesture , she settle herself for a chat .
`` Yes , thank heaven , Sy be well .
I do n't know what would become of u if she be n't .
It have be a hard and sorrowful year for u with Mr. Dean 's business embarrassment , my feeble health , and May 's death .
I do n't know that you be aware of our loss , sir ; '' and unaffected maternal grief give sudden dignity to the fade , fretful face of the speaker .
Paul murmur his regret , understand well now the pathetic word on a certain tear-stained page of the little book still in his pocket .
`` Poor dear , she suffer everything , and it come very hard upon Sy , for the child be n't happy with any one else , and almost live in her arm , '' continue Mrs. Dean , drop the second shawl to get her handkerchief .
`` Miss Psyche have not have much time for art-studies this year , I suppose ? ''
say Paul , hop to arrest the shower , natural a it be .
`` How could she with two invalid , the housekeeping , her father and the boy to attend to ?
No , she give that up last spring , and though it be a great disappointment to her at the time , she have get over it now , I hope , '' add her mother , remember a she speak that Psyche even now go about the house sometimes pale and silent , with a hungry look in her eye .
`` I be glad to hear it , '' though a little shadow pass over his face a Paul speak , for he be too true an artist to believe that any work could be as happy a that which he love and live for .
`` I think there be much promise in Miss Psyche , and I sincerely believe that time will prove me a true prophet , '' he say , with mingle regret and hope in his voice , a he glance about the room , which betray the taste still cherish by the girl .
`` I 'm afraid ambition be n't good for woman ; I mean the sort that make them know by come before the public in any way .
But Sy deserve some reward , I 'm sure , and I know she 'll have it , for a good daughter never live . ''
Here the third shawl be cast off , a if the thought of Psyche , or the presence of a genial guest have touch Mrs. Dean 's chilly nature with a comfortable warmth .
Further conversation be interrupt by the avalanche of boy which come tumble down the front stair , a Tom , Dick , and Harry shout in a sort of chorus , -- `` Sy , my balloon have get away ; lend u a hand at catch him ! ''
`` Sy , I want a lot of paste make , right off . ''
`` Sy , I 've split my jacket down the back ; come sew me up , there 's a dear ! ''
On behold a stranger the young gentleman suddenly lose their voice , find their manner , and with nod and grin take themselves away as quietly a could be expect of six clump boot and an unlimited quantity of animal spirit in a high state of effervescence .
As they troop off , an unmistakable odor of burnt milk pervade the air , and the crash of china , follow by an Irish wail , cause Mrs. Dean to clap on her three shawl again and excuse herself in visible trepidation .
Paul laugh quietly to himself , then turn sober and say , `` Poor Psyche ! ''
with a sympathetic sigh .
He roam about the room impatiently till the sound of voice draw him to the window to behold the girl come up the walk with her tired old father lean on one arm , the other loaded with basket and bundle , and her hand occupy by a remarkably ugly turtle .
`` Here we be ! ''
cry a cheery voice , a they enter without observe the new-comer .
`` I 've do all my errand and have a lovely time .
There be Tom 's gunpowder , Dick 's fishhook , and one of Professor Gazzy 's famous turtle for Harry .
Here be your bundle , mother dear , and , best of all , here 's father home in time for a good rest before dinner .
I go to the mill and get him . ''
Psyche speak a if she have bring a treasure ; and so she have , for though Mr. Dean 's face usually be about as expressive a the turtle 's , it wake and warm with the affection which his daughter have foster till no amount of flannel could extinguish it .
His big hand pat her cheek very gently a he say , in a tone of fatherly love and pride , -- `` My little Sy never forget old father , do she ? ''
`` Good gracious me , my dear , there 's such a mess in the kitchen !
Katy 's burnt up the pudding , put castor-oil instead of olive in the salad , smash the best meat-dish , and here 's Mr. Gage come to dinner , '' cry Mrs. Dean in accent of despair a she tie up her head in a fourth shawl .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad ; I 'll go in and see him a few minute , and then I 'll come and attend to everything ; so do n't worry , mother . ''
`` How do you find me out ? ''
ask Psyche a she shake hand with her guest and stand look up at him with all the old confiding frankness in her face and manner .
`` The violet show me the way . ''
She glance at the posy in his button-hole and smile .
`` Yes , I give them to Adam , but I do n't think you would guess .
I enjoy your work for an hour to-day , and I have no word strong enough to express my admiration . ''
`` There be no need of any .
Tell me about yourself : what have you be do all this year ? ''
he ask , watch with genuine satisfaction the serene and sunny face before him , for discontent , anxiety , and sadness be no longer visible there .
`` I 've be work and wait , '' she begin .
`` And succeeding , if I may believe what I see and hear and read , '' he say , with an expressive little wave of the book a he lay it down before her .
`` My diary !
I do n't know I have lose it .
Where do you find it ? ''
`` By the brook where I stop to rest .
The moment I saw your name I shut it up .
Forgive me , but I ca n't ask pardon for read a few page of that little gospel of patience , love , and self-denial . ''
She give him a reproachful look , and hurry the telltale book out of sight a she say , with a momentary shadow on her face , -- `` It have be a hard task ; but I think I have learn it , and be just begin to find that my dream be ' a noonday light and truth , ' to me . ''
`` Then you do not relinquish your hope , and lay down your tool ? ''
he ask , with some eagerness .
`` Never !
I think at first that I could not serve two master , but in try to be faithful to one I find I be nearer and dearer to the other .
My care and duty be grow light every day -LRB- or I have learn to bear them good -RRB- , and when my leisure do come I shall know how to use it , for my head be full of ambitious plan , and I feel that I can do something now . ''
All the old enthusiasm shone in her eye , and a sense of power betray itself in voice and gesture a she speak .
`` I believe it , '' he say heartily .
`` You have learn the secret , a that prove . ''
Psyche look at the childish image a he point to it , and into her face there come a motherly expression that make it very sweet .
`` That little sister be so dear to me I could not fail to make her lovely , for I put my heart into my work .
The year have go , but I do n't regret it , though this be all I have do . ''
`` You forget your three wish ; I think the year have grant them . ''
`` What be they ? ''
`` To possess beauty in yourself , the power of see it in all thing , and the art of reproduce it with truth . ''
She color deeply under the glance which accompany the threefold compliment , and answer with grateful humility , -- `` You be very kind to say so ; I wish I could believe it . ''
Then , a if anxious to forget herself , she add rather abruptly , -- `` I hear you think of give your Adam a mate , -- have you begin yet ? ''
`` Yes , my design be finish , all but the face . ''
`` I should think you could image Eve 's beauty , since you have succeed so well with Adam 's . ''
`` The feature perhaps , but not the expression .
That be the charm of feminine face , a charm so subtile that few can catch and keep it .
I want a truly womanly face , one that shall be sweet and strong without be either weak or hard .
A hopeful , loving , earnest face with a tender touch of motherliness in it , and perhaps the shadow of a grief that have soften but not sadden it . ''
`` It will be hard to find a face like that . ''
`` I do n't expect to find it in perfection ; but one sometimes see face which suggest all this , and in rare moment give glimpse of a lovely possibility . ''
`` I sincerely hope you will find one then , '' say Psyche , thinking of the dinner .
`` Thank you ; I think I have . ''
Now , in order that every one may be suit , we will stop here , and leave our reader to finish the story a they like .
Those who prefer the good old fashion may believe that the hero and heroine fell in love , be marry , and live happily ever afterward .
But those who can conceive of a world outside of a wedding-ring may believe that the friend remain faithful friend all their life , while Paul win fame and fortune , and Psyche grow beautiful with the beauty of a serene and sunny nature , happy in duty which become pleasure , rich in the art which make life lovely to herself and others , and bring reward in time .
A COUNTRY CHRISTMAS `` A handful of good life be worth a bushel of learn . ''
`` Dear Emily , -- I have a brilliant idea , and at once hasten to share it with you .
Three week ago I come up here to the wild of Vermont to visit my old aunt , also to get a little quiet and distance in which to survey certain new prospect which have open before me , and to decide whether I will marry a millionnaire and become a queen of society , or remain ` the charming Miss Vaughan ' and wait till the conquering hero come .
`` Aunt Plumy beg me to stay over Christmas , and I have consent , a I always dread the formal dinner with which my guardian celebrate the day .
`` My brilliant idea be this .
I 'm go to make it a real old-fashioned frolic , and wo n't you come and help me ?
You will enjoy it immensely I be sure , for Aunt be a character .
Cousin Saul worth see , and Ruth a far pretty girl than any of the city rose-buds come out this season .
Bring Leonard Randal along with you to take note for his new book ; then it will be fresher and truer than the last , clever a it be .
`` The air be delicious up here , society amusing , this old farmhouse full of treasure , and your bosom friend pin to embrace you .
Just telegraph yes or no , and we will expect you on Tuesday .
`` Ever yours , `` SOPHIE VAUGHAN . ''
`` They will both come , for they be a tired of city life and a fond of change a I be , '' say the writer of the above , a she fold her letter and go to get it post without delay .
Aunt Plumy be in the great kitchen make pie ; a jolly old soul , with a face as ruddy a a winter apple , a cheery voice , and the kind heart that ever beat under a gingham gown .
Pretty Ruth be chop the mince , and sing so gaily a she work that the four-and-twenty immortal blackbird could not have put more music into a pie than she do .
Saul be pile wood into the big oven , and Sophie pause a moment on the threshold to look at him , for she always enjoy the sight of this stalwart cousin , whom she liken to a Norse viking , with his fair hair and beard , keen blue eye , and six foot of manly height , with shoulder that look broad and strong enough to bear any burden .
His back be toward her , but he saw her first , and turn his flushed face to meet her , with the sudden lighting up it always show when she approach .
`` I 've do it , Aunt ; and now I want Saul to post the letter , so we can get a speedy answer . ''
`` Just as soon a I can hitch up , cousin ; '' and Saul pitch in his last log , look ready to put a girdle round the earth in less than forty minute .
`` Well , dear , I ai n't the least mite of objection , as long a it please you .
I guess we can stan ' it ef your city folk can .
I presume to say thing will look kind of sing ` lar to 'em , but I s ` pose that 's what they come for .
Idle folk do dreadful queer thing to amuse 'em ; '' and Aunt Plumy lean on the rolling-pin to smile and nod with a shrewd twinkle of her eye , a if she enjoy the prospect as much a Sophie do .
`` I shall be afraid of 'em , but I 'll try not to make you ashamed of me , '' say Ruth , who love her charm cousin even more than she admire her .
`` No fear of that , dear .
They will be the awkward one , and you must set them at ease by just be your simple self , and treat them a if they be every-day people .
Nell be very nice and jolly when she drop her city way , a she must here .
She will enter into the spirit of the fun at once , and I know you 'll all like her .
Mr. Randal be rather the worse for too much praise and petting , a successful people be apt to be , so a little plain talk and rough work will do him good .
He be a true gentleman in spite of his air and elegance , and he will take it all in good part , if you treat him like a man and not a lion . ''
`` I 'll see to him , '' say Saul , who have listen with great interest to the latter part of Sophie 's speech , evidently suspect a lover , and enjoy the idea of supply him with a liberal amount of `` plain talk and rough work . ''
`` I 'll keep 'em busy if that 's what they need , for there will be a sight to do , and we ca n't get help easy up here .
Our darter do n't hire out much .
Work to home till they marry , and do n't go gaddin ' ` round gettin ' their head full of foolish notion , and forgettin ' all the useful thing their mother teach 'em . ''
Aunt Plumy glance at Ruth a she speak , and a sudden color in the girl 's cheek prove that the word hit certain ambitious fancy of this pretty daughter of the house of Basset .
`` They shall do their part and not be a trouble ; I 'll see to that , for you certainly be the dear aunt in the world to let me take possession of you and yours in this way , '' cry Sophie , embrace the old lady with warmth .
Saul wish the embrace could be return by proxy , a his mother 's hand be too floury to do more than hover affectionately round the delicate face that look so fresh and young beside her wrinkled one .
As it could not be do , he flee temptation and `` hitch up '' without delay .
The three woman lay their head together in his absence , and Sophie 's plan grow apace , for Ruth long to see a real novelist and a fine lady , and Aunt Plumy , have plan of her own to far , say `` Yes , dear , '' to every suggestion .
Great be the arranging and adorning that go on that day in the old farmhouse , for Sophie want her friend to enjoy this taste of country pleasure , and know just what addition would be indispensable to their comfort ; what simple ornament would be in keep with the rustic stage on which she mean to play the part of prima donna .
Next day a telegram arrive accept the invitation , for both the lady and the lion .
They would arrive that afternoon , a little preparation be need for this impromptu journey , the novelty of which be it chief charm to these blas people .
Saul want to get out the double sleigh and span , for he pride himself on his horse , and a fall of snow come most opportunely to beautify the landscape and add a new pleasure to Christmas festivity .
But Sophie declare that the old yellow sleigh , with Punch , the farm-horse , must be use , a she wish everything to be in keep ; and Saul obey , think he have never see anything pretty than his cousin when she appear in his mother 's old-fashioned camlet cloak and blue silk pumpkin hood .
He look remarkably well himself in his fur coat , with hair and beard brush till they shine like spun gold , a fresh color in his cheek , and the sparkle of amusement in his eye , while excitement give his usually grave face the animation it need to be handsome .
Away they jog in the creaking old sleigh , leave Ruth to make herself pretty , with a fluttering heart , and Aunt Plumy to dish up a late dinner fit to tempt the most fastidious appetite .
`` She have not come for u , and there be not even a stage to take u up .
There must be some mistake , '' say Emily Herrick , a she look about the shabby little station where they be set down .
`` That be the never-to-be-forgotten face of our fair friend , but the bonnet of her grandmother , if my eye do not deceive me , '' answer Randal , turn to survey the couple approach in the rear .
`` Sophie Vaughan , what do you mean by make such a guy of yourself ? ''
exclaim Emily , a she kiss the smile face in the hood and star at the quaint cloak .
`` I 'm dressed for my part , and I intend to keep it up .
This be our host , my cousin , Saul Basset .
Come to the sleigh at once , he will see to your luggage , '' say Sophie , painfully conscious of the antiquity of her array a her eye rest on Emily 's pretty hat and mantle , and the masculine elegance of Randal 's wrap .
They be hardly tuck in when Saul appear with a valise in one hand and a large trunk on his shoulder , swing both on to a wood-sled that stand near by as easily a if they have be hand-bags .
`` That be your hero , be it ?
Well , he look it , calm and comely , taciturn and tall , '' say Emily , in a tone of approbation .
`` He should have be name Samson or Goliath ; though I believe it be the small man who sling thing about and turn out the hero in the end , '' add Randal , survey the performance with interest and a touch of envy , for much pen work have make his own hand as delicate a a woman 's .
`` Saul do n't live in a glass house , so stone wo n't hurt him .
Remember sarcasm be forbidden and sincerity the order of the day .
You be country folk now , and it will do you good to try their simple , honest way for a few day . ''
Sophie have no time to say more , for Saul come up and drive off with the brief remark that the baggage would `` be along right away . ''
Being hungry , cold and tired , the guest be rather silent during the short drive , but Aunt Plumy 's hospitable welcome , and the savory fume of the dinner await them , thaw the ice and win their heart at once .
`` Is n't it nice ?
Are n't you glad you come ? ''
ask Sophie , a she lead her friends into the parlor , which she have redeem from it primness by put bright chintz curtain to the window , hemlock bough over the old portrait , a china bowl of flower on the table , and a splendid fire on the wide hearth .
`` It be perfectly jolly , and this be the way I begin to enjoy myself , '' answer Emily , sit down upon the home-made rug , whose red flannel rose bloom in a blue list basket .
`` If I may add a little smoke to your glorious fire , it will be quite perfect .
Wo n't Samson join me ? ''
ask Randal , wait for permission , cigar-case in hand .
`` He have no small vice , but you may indulge yours , '' answer Sophie , from the depth of a grandmotherly chair .
Emily glance up at her friend a if she catch a new tone in her voice , then turn to the fire again with a wise little nod , a if confide some secret to the reflection of herself in the bright brass andiron .
`` His Delilah do not take this form .
I wait with interest to discover if he have one .
What a daisy the sister be .
Does she ever speak ? ''
ask Randal , try to lounge on the haircloth sofa , where he be slip uncomfortably about .
`` Oh yes , and sings like a bird .
You shall hear her when she get over her shyness .
But no trifling , mind you , for it be a jealously guard daisy and not to be pick by any idle hand , '' say Sophie warningly , a she recall Ruth 's blush and Randal 's compliment at dinner .
`` I should expect to be annihilate by the big brother if I attempt any but the ` sincere ' admiration and respect .
Have no fear on that score , but tell u what be to follow this superb dinner .
An apple bee , spin match , husk party , or primitive pastime of some sort , I have no doubt . ''
`` As you be new to our way I be go to let you rest this evening .
We will sit about the fire and tell story .
Aunt be a master hand at that , and Saul have reminiscence of the war that be well worth hear if we can only get him to tell them . ''
`` Ah , he be there , be he ? ''
`` Yes , all through it , and be Major Basset , though he like his plain name best .
He fight splendidly and have several wound , though only a mere boy when he earn his scar and bar .
I 'm very proud of him for that , '' and Sophie look so a she glance at the photograph of a stripling in uniform set in the place of honor on the high mantel-piece .
`` We must stir him up and hear these martial memory .
I want some new incident , and shall book all I can get , if I may . ''
Here Randal be interrupt by Saul himself , who come in with an armful of wood for the fire .
`` Anything more I can do for you , cousin ? ''
he ask , survey the scene with a rather wistful look .
`` Only come and sit with u and talk over war time with Mr. Randal . ''
`` When I 've fodder the cattle and do my chore I 'd be please to .
What regiment be you in ? ''
ask Saul , look down from his lofty height upon the slender gentleman , who answer briefly , -- `` In none .
I be abroad at the time . ''
`` Sick ? ''
`` No , busy with a novel . ''
`` Took four year to write it ? ''
`` I be oblige to travel and study before I could finish it .
These thing take more time to work up than outsider would believe . ''
`` Seems to me our war be a finer story than any you could find in Europe , and the best way to study it would be to fight it out .
If you want hero and heroine you 'd have find plenty of 'em there . ''
`` I have no doubt of it , and shall be glad to atone for my seem neglect of them by hear about your own exploit .
Major . ''
Randal hop to turn the conversation gracefully , but Saul be not to be catch , and leave the room , say , with a gleam of fun in his eye , -- `` I ca n't stop now ; hero can wait , pig ca n't . ''
The girl laugh at this sudden descent from the sublime to the ridiculous , and Randal join them , feel his condescension have not be unobserved .
As if draw by the merry sound Aunt Plumy appear , and be establish in the rocking-chair fell to talk as easily a if she have know her guest for year .
`` Laugh away , young folk , that 's good for digestion than any of the mess people use .
Are you trouble with dyspepsy , dear ?
You do n't seem to take your vittles very hearty , so I mistrust you be delicate , '' she say , look at Emily , whose pale cheek and weary eye tell the story of late hour and a gay life .
`` I have n't eat so much for year , I assure you , Mrs. Basset ; but it be impossible to taste all your good thing .
I be not dyspeptic , thank you , but a little seedy and tire , for I 've be work rather hard lately . ''
`` Be you a teacher ?
or have you a ` perfessun , ' a they call a trade nowadays ? ''
ask the old lady in a tone of kindly interest , which prevent a laugh at the idea of Emily 's be anything but a beauty and a belle .
The others keep their countenance with difficulty , and she answer demurely , -- `` I have no trade a yet , but I dare say I should be happy if I have . ''
`` Not a doubt o n't , my dear . ''
`` What would you recommend , ma'am ? ''
`` I should say dressmakin ' be rather in your line , ai n't it ?
Your clothes be dreadful tasty , and do you credit if you make 'em yourself . ''
and Aunt Plumy survey with feminine interest the simple elegance of the travelling dress which be the masterpiece of a French modiste .
`` No , ma'am , I do n't make my own thing , I 'm too lazy .
It take so much time and trouble to select them that I have only strength leave to wear them . ''
`` Housekeepin ' use to be the favorite perfessun in my day .
It ai n't fashionable now , but it need a sight of trainin ' to be perfect in all that 's require , and I 've an idee it would be a sight healthier and usefuller than the paintin ' and music and fancy work young woman do nowadays . ''
`` But every one want some beauty in their life , and each one have a different sphere to fill , if one can only find it . '' ''
` Pears to me there 's no call for so much art when nater be full of beauty for them that can see and love it .
As for ` spear ' and so on , I 've a notion if each of u do up our own little chore smart and thorough we need n't go wanderin ' round to set the world to right .
That 's the Lord 's job , and I presume to say He can do it without any advice of ourn . ''
Something in the homely but true word seem to rebuke the three listener for wasted life , and for a moment there be no sound but the crackle of the fire , the brisk click of the old lady 's knitting needle , and Ruth 's voice sing overhead a she make ready to join the party below .
`` To judge by that sweet sound you have do one of your ` chore ' very beautifully , Mrs. Basset , and in spite of the folly of our day , succeed in keep one girl healthy , happy and unspoiled , '' say Emily , look up into the peaceful old face with her own lovely one full of respect and envy .
`` I do hope so , for she 's my ewe lamb , the last of four dear little girl ; all the rest be in the burying ground ` side of father .
I do n't expect to keep her long , and do n't ought to regret when I lose her , for Saul be the best of son ; but daughter be more to mother somehow , and I always yearn over girl that be leave without a broodin ' wing to keep 'em safe and warm in this world of tribulation . ''
Aunt Plumy lay her hand on Sophie 's head a she speak , with such a motherly look that both girl draw nearer , and Randal resolve to put her in a book without delay .
Presently Saul return with little Ruth hang on his arm and shyly nestling near him a he take the three-cornered leathern chair in the chimney nook , while she sit on a stool close by .
`` Now the circle be complete and the picture perfect .
Do n't light the lamp yet , please , but talk away and let me make a mental study of you .
I seldom find so charm a scene to paint , '' say Randal , begin to enjoy himself immensely , with a true artist 's taste for novelty and effect .
`` Tell u about your book , for we have be read it a it come out in the magazine , and be much exercise about how it 's go to end , '' begin Saul , gallantly throw himself into the breach , for a momentary embarrassment fell upon the woman at the idea of sit for their portrait before they be ready .
`` Do you really read my poor serial up here , and do me the honor to like it ? ''
ask the novelist , both flatter and amuse , for his work be of the aesthetic sort , microscopic study of character , and careful picture of modern life .
`` Sakes alive , why should n't we ? ''
cried Aunt Plumy .
`` We have some eddication , though we ai n't very genteel .
We 've get a town libry , kep up by the woman mostly , with fair and tea party and so on .
We have all the magazine reg ` lar , and Saul read out the piece while Ruth sews and I knit , my eye bein ' poor .
Our winter be long and evenins would be kinder lonesome if we do n't have novils and newspaper to cheer 'em up . ''
`` I be very glad I can help to beguile them for you .
Now tell me what you honestly think of my work ?
Criticism be always valuable , and I should really like yours , Mrs. Basset , '' say Randal , wonder what the good woman would make of the delicate analysis and worldly wisdom on which he pride himself .
Short work , a Aunt Plumy soon show him , for she rather enjoy free her mind at all time , and decidedly resent the insinuation that country folk could not appreciate light literature as well a city people .
`` I ai n't no great of a jedge about anything but nat ` ralness of book , and it really do seem a if some of your men and woman be dreadful uncomfortable creaters .
` Pears to me it ai n't wise to be always pickin ' ourselves to piece and pryin ' into thing that ought to come gradual by way of experience and the visitation of Providence .
Flowers wo n't blow worth a cent ef you pull 'em open .
Better wait and see what they can do alone .
I do relish the smart sayins , the odd way of furrin part , and the sarcastic slap at folks weak spot .
But massy know , we ca n't live on spice-cake and Charlotte Ruche , and I do feel a if book be more sustainin ' ef they be full of every-day people and thing , like good bread and butter .
Them that go to the heart and ai n't soon forget be the kind I hanker for .
Mis Terry 's book now , and Mis Stowe 's , and Dickens 's Christmas piece , -- them be real sweet and cheerin ' , to my mind . ''
As the blunt old lady pause it be evident she have produce a sensation , for Saul smile at the fire , Ruth look dismay at this assault upon one of her idol , and the young lady be both astonish and amuse at the keenness of the new critic who dare express what they have often felt .
Randal , however , be quite composed and laugh good-naturedly , though secretly feel a if a pail of cold water have be pour over him .
`` Many thanks , madam ; you have discover my weak point with surprising accuracy .
But you see I can not help ` pick folk to piece , ' a you have express it ; that be my gift , and it have it attraction , a the sale of my book will testify .
People like the ` spice-bread , ' and a that be the only sort my oven will bake , I must keep on in order to make my living . ''
`` So rumsellers say , but it ai n't a good trade to foller , and I 'd chop wood ` fore I 'd earn my livin ' harmin ' my feller man .
` Pears to me I 'd let my oven cool a spell , and hunt up some homely , happy folk to write about ; folk that do n't borrer trouble and go lookin ' for hole in their neighbor ' coat , but take their life brave and cheerful ; and rememberin ' we be all human , have pity on the weak , and try to be a full of mercy , patience and lovin ' kindness a Him who make u .
That sort of a book would do a heap of good ; be real warmin ' and strengthen and make them that read it love the man that write it , and remember him when he be dead and go . ''
`` I wish I could ! ''
and Randal mean what he say , for he be a tire of his own style a a watch-maker might be of the magnifying glass through which he strain his eye all day .
He know that the heart be leave out of his work , and that both mind and soul be grow morbid with dwell on the faulty , absurd and metaphysical phase of life and character .
He often throw down his pen and vow he would write no more ; but he love ease and the book bring money readily ; he be accustom to the stimulant of praise and miss it a the toper miss his wine , so that which have once be a pleasure to himself and others be fast become a burden and a disappointment .
The brief pause which follow his involuntary betrayal of discontent be break by Ruth , who exclaim , with a girlish enthusiasm that overpower girlish bashfulness , -- '' I think all the novel be splendid !
I hope you will write hundred more , and I shall live to read 'em . ''
`` Bravo , my gentle champion !
I promise that I will write one more at least , and have a heroine in it whom your mother will both admire and love , '' answer Randal , surprise to find how grateful he be for the girl 's approval , and how rapidly his trained fancy begin to paint the background on which he hop to copy this fresh , human daisy .
Abashed by her involuntary outburst , Ruth try to efface herself behind Saul 's broad shoulder , and he bring the conversation back to it starting-point by say in a tone of the most sincere interest , -- `` Speaking of the serial , I be very anxious to know how your hero come out .
He be a fine fellow , and I ca n't decide whether he be go to spoil his life marry that silly woman , or do something grand and generous , and not be make a fool of . ''
`` Upon my soul , I do n't know myself .
It be very hard to find new finale .
Ca n't you suggest something , Major ?
then I shall not be oblige to leave my story without an end , a people complain I be rather fond of do . ''
`` Well , no , I do n't think I 've anything to offer .
Seems to me it be n't the sensational exploit that show the hero best , but some great sacrifice quietly make by a common sort of man who be noble without know it .
I saw a good many such during the war , and often wish I could write them down , for it be surprising how much courage , goodness and real piety be stow away in common folk ready to show when the right time come . ''
`` Tell u one of them , and I 'll bless you for a hint .
No one know the anguish of an author 's spirit when he ca n't ring down the curtain on an effective tableau , '' say Randal , with a glance at his friend to ask their aid in elicit an anecdote or reminiscence .
`` Tell about the splendid fellow who hold the bridge , like Horatius , till help come up .
That be a thrilling story , I assure you , '' answer Sophie , with an invite smile .
But Saul would not be his own hero , and say briefly : `` Any man can be brave when the battle-fever be on him , and it only take a little physical courage to dash ahead . ''
He pause a moment , with his eye on the snowy landscape without , where twilight be deepen ; then , a if constrain by the memory that winter scene evoke , he slowly continue , -- `` One of the brave thing I ever know be do by a poor fellow who have be a hero to me ever since , though I only meet him that night .
It be after one of the big battle of that last winter , and I be knock over with a broken leg and two or three bullet here and there .
Night be come on , snow fall , and a sharp wind blew over the field where a lot of u lay , dead and alive , wait for the ambulance to come and pick u up .
There be skirmish go on not far off , and our prospect be rather poor between frost and fire .
I be calculate how I 'd manage , when I find two poor chap close by who be bad off , so I brace up and do what I could for them .
One have an arm blown away , and keep up a dreadful groaning .
The other be shot bad , and bleed to death for want of help , but never complain .
He be nearest , and I like his pluck , for he speak cheerful and make me ashamed to growl .
Such time make dreadful brute of men if they have n't something to hold on to , and all three of u be most wild with pain and cold and hunger , for we 'd fight all day fasting , when we hear a rumble in the road below , and saw lantern bob round .
That mean life to u , and we all try to holler ; two of u be pretty faint , but I manage a good yell , and they hear it . ''
` Room for one more .
Hard luck , old boy , but we be full and must save the bad wound first .
Take a drink , and hold on till we come back , ' say one of them with the stretcher . ''
` Here 's the one to go , ' I say , pointin ' out my man , for I saw by the light that he be hard hit . ''
` No , that one .
He 's get more chance than I , or this one ; he 's young and get a mother ; I 'll wait , ' say the good feller , touchin ' my arm , for he 'd hear me mutterin ' to myself about this dear old lady .
We always want mother when we be down , you know . ''
Saul 's eye turn to the beloved face with a glance of tenderest affection , and Aunt Plumy answer with a dismal groan at the recollection of his need that night , and her absence .
`` Well , to be short , the groan chap be take , and my man leave .
I be mad , but there be no time for talk , and the selfish one go off and leave that poor feller to run his one chance .
I have my rifle , and guess I could hobble up to use it if need be ; so we settle back to wait without much hope of help , everything be in a muddle .
And wait we do till morning , for that ambulance do not come back till next day , when most of u be past needing it .
`` I 'll never forget that night .
I dream it all over again as plain a if it be real .
Snow , cold , darkness , hunger , thirst , pain , and all round u cry and curse grow less and less , till at last only the wind go moan over that meadow .
It be awful !
so lonesome , helpless , and seemingly God-forsaken .
Hour after hour we lay there side by side under one coat , wait to be save or die , for the wind grow strong and we grow weak . ''
Saul draw a long breath , and hold his hand to the fire a if he felt again the sharp suffering of that night .
`` And the man ? ''
ask Emily , softly , a if reluctant to break the silence .
`` He be a man !
In time like that men talk like brother and show what they be .
Lying there , slowly freezing , Joe Cummings tell me about his wife and baby , his old folk wait for him , all depend on him , yet all ready to give him up when he be need .
A plain man , but honest and true , and love a a woman ; I soon saw that a he go on talk , half to me and half to himself , for sometimes he wander a little toward the end .
I 've read book , heard sermon , and see good folk , but nothing ever come so close or do me so much good a see this man die .
He have one chance and give it cheerfully .
He long for those he love , and let 'em go with a good-by they could n't hear .
He suffer all the pain we most shrink from without a murmur , and keep my heart warm while his own be grow cold .
It 's no use try to tell that part of it ; but I hear prayer that night that mean something , and I saw how faith could hold a soul up when everything be go but God . ''
Saul stop there with a sudden huskiness in his deep voice , and when he go on it be in the tone of one who speak of a dear friend .
`` Joe grow still by and by , and I think he be asleep , for I felt his breath when I tuck him up , and his hand hold on to mine .
The cold sort of numbed me , and I drop off , too weak and stupid to think or feel .
I never should have wake up if it have n't be for Joe .
When I come to , it be morning , and I think I be dead , for all I could see be that great field of white mound , like graf , and a splendid sky above .
Then I look for Joe , remember ; but he have put my coat back over me , and lay stiff and still under the snow that cover him like a shroud , all except his face .
A bit of my cape have blow over it , and when I take it off and the sun shone on his dead face , I declare to you it be so full of heavenly peace I felt a if that common man have be glorify by God 's light , and reward by God 's ` Well do . '
That 's all . ''
No one spoke for a moment , while the woman wipe their eye , and Saul drop his a if to hide something soft than tear .
`` It be very noble , very touch .
And you ?
how do you get off at last ? ''
ask Randal , with real admiration and respect in his usually languid face .
`` Crawled off , '' answer Saul , relapse into his former brevity of speech .
`` Why not before , and save yourself all that misery ? ''
`` Could n't leave Joe . ''
`` Ah , I see ; there be two hero that night . ''
`` Dozens , I 've no doubt .
Those be time that make hero of men , and woman , too . ''
`` Tell u more ; '' beg Emily , look up with an expression none of her admirer ever bring to her face by their soft compliment or wily gossip .
`` I 've do my part .
It 's Mr. Randal 's turn now ; '' and Saul draw himself out of the ruddy circle of firelight , a if ashamed of the prominent part he be play .
Sophie and her friend have often hear Randal talk , for he be an accomplished raconteur , but that night he exert himself , and be unusually brilliant and entertaining , a if upon his mettle .
The Bassets be charm .
They sit late and be very merry , for Aunt Plumy get up a little supper for them , and her cider be as exhilarating a champagne .
When they part for the night and Sophie kiss her aunt , Emily do the same , say heartily , -- `` It seem a if I 'd know you all my life , and this be certainly the most enchanting old place that ever be . ''
`` Glad you like it , dear .
But it ai n't all fun , a you 'll find out to-morrow when you go to work , for Sophie say you must , '' answer Mrs. Basset , a her guest troop away , rashly promise to like everything .
They find it difficult to keep their word when they be call at half past six next morning .
Their room be warm , however , and they manage to scramble down in time for breakfast , guide by the fragrance of coffee and Aunt Plumy 's shrill voice sing the good old hymn -- `` Lord , in the morning Thou shalt hear My voice ascend high . ''
An open fire blaze on the hearth , for the cooking be do in the lean-to , and the spacious , sunny kitchen be keep in all it old-fashioned perfection , with the wooden settle in a warm nook , the tall clock behind the door , copper and pewter utensil shin on the dresser , old china in the corner closet and a little spinning wheel rescue from the garret by Sophie to adorn the deep window , full of scarlet geranium , Christmas roses , and white chrysanthemum .
The young lady , in a checked apron and mob-cap , greet her friend with a dish of buckwheat in one hand , and a pair of cheek that prove she have be learn to fry these delectable cake .
`` You do ` keep it up ' in earnest , upon my word ; and very become it be , dear .
But wo n't you ruin your complexion and roughen your hand if you do so much of this new fancy-work ? ''
ask Emily , much amaze at this novel freak .
`` I like it , and really believe I 've find my proper sphere at last .
Domestic life seem so pleasant to me that I feel a if I 'd well keep it up for the rest of my life , '' answer Sophie , make a pretty picture of herself a she cut great slice of brown bread , with the early sunshine touch her happy face .
`` The charming Miss Vaughan in the role of a farmer 's wife .
I find it difficult to imagine , and shrink from the thought of the wide-spread dismay such a fate will produce among her adorer , '' add Randal , a he bask in the glow of the hospitable fire .
`` She might do bad ; but come to breakfast and do honor to my handiwork , '' say Sophie , thinking of her worn-out millionnaire , and rather nettle by the satiric smile on Randal 's lip .
`` What an appetite early rise give one .
I feel equal to almost anything , so let me help wash cup , '' say Emily , with unusual energy , when the hearty meal be over and Sophie begin to pick up the dish a if it be her usual work .
Ruth go to the window to water the flower , and Randal follow to make himself agreeable , remember her defence of him last night .
He be use to admiration from feminine eye , and flattery from soft lip , but find something new and charming in the innocent delight which show itself at his approach in blush more eloquent than word , and shy glance from eye full of hero-worship .
`` I hope you be go to spare me a posy for to-morrow night , since I can be fine in no other way to do honor to the dance Miss Sophie propose for u , '' he say , lean in the bay window to look down on the little girl , with the devoted air he usually wear for pretty woman .
`` Anything you like !
I should be so glad to have you wear my flower .
There will be enough for all , and I 've nothing else to give to people who have make me as happy a cousin Sophie and you , '' answer Ruth , half drown her great calla a she speak with grateful warmth .
`` You must make her happy by accept the invitation to go home with her which I hear give last night .
A peep at the world would do you good , and be a pleasant change , I think . ''
`` Oh , very pleasant !
but would it do me good ? ''
and Ruth look up with sudden seriousness in her blue eye , a a child question an elder , eager , yet wistful .
`` Why not ? ''
ask Randal , wonder at the hesitation .
`` I might grow discontent with thing here if I saw splendid house and fine people .
I be very happy now , and it would break my heart to lose that happiness , or ever learn to be ashamed of home . ''
`` But do n't you long for more pleasure , new scene and other friend than these ? ''
ask the man , touch by the little creature 's loyalty to the thing she know and love .
`` Very often , but mother say when I 'm ready they will come , so I wait and try not to be impatient . ''
But Ruth 's eye look out over the green leave a if the longing be very strong within her to see more of the unknown world lie beyond the mountain that hem her in .
`` It be natural for bird to hop out of the nest , so I shall expect to see you over there before long , and ask you how you enjoy your first flight , '' say Randal , in a paternal tone that have a curious effect on Ruth .
To his surprise , she laugh , then blush like one of her own rose , and answer with a demure dignity that be very pretty to see .
`` I intend to hop soon , but it wo n't be a very long flight or very far from mother .
She ca n't spare me , and nobody in the world can fill her place to me . ''
`` Bless the child , do she think I 'm go to make love to her , '' think Randal , much amuse , but quite mistaken .
Wiser woman have think so when he assume the caress air with which he beguile them into the little revelation of character he like to use , a the south wind make flower open their heart to give up their odor , then leave them to carry it elsewhere , the more welcome for the stolen sweetness .
`` Perhaps you be right .
The maternal wing be a safe shelter for confide little soul like you , Miss Ruth .
You will be a comfortable here a your flower in this sunny window , '' he say , carelessly pinch geranium leaf , and ruffle the rose till the pink petal of the large flutter to the floor .
As if she instinctively felt and resent something in the man which his act symbolize , the girl answer quietly , a she go on with her work , `` Yes , if the frost do not touch me , or careless people spoil me too soon . ''
Before Randal could reply Aunt Plumy approach like a maternal hen who see her chicken in danger .
`` Saul be goin ' to haul wood after he 's do his chore , mebbe you 'd like to go along ?
The view be good , the road well break , and the day uncommon fine . ''
`` Thanks ; it will be delightful , I dare say , '' politely respond the lion , with a secret shudder at the idea of a rural promenade at 8 A.M. in the winter .
`` Come on , then ; we 'll fee the stock , and then I 'll show you how to yoke ox , '' say Saul , with a twinkle in his eye a he lead the way , when his new aide have muffle himself up a if for a polar voyage .
`` Now , that 's too bad of Saul !
He do it on purpose , just to please you , Sophie , '' cry Ruth presently , and the girl run to the window to behold Randal bravely follow his host with a pail of pig ' food in each hand , and an expression of resigned disgust upon his aristocratic face .
`` To what base use may we come , '' quote Emily , a they all nod and smile upon the victim a he look back from the barn-yard , where he be clamorously welcome by his new charge .
`` It be rather a shock at first , but it will do him good , and Saul wo n't be too hard upon him , I 'm sure , '' say Sophie , go back to her work , while Ruth turn her best bud to the sun that they might be ready for a peace-offering to-morrow .
There be a merry clatter in the big kitchen for an hour ; then Aunt Plumy and her daughter shut themselves up in the pantry to perform some culinary rite , and the young lady go to inspect certain antique costume lay forth in Sophie 's room .
`` You see , Em , I think it would be appropriate to the house and season to have an old-fashioned dance .
Aunt have quantity of ancient finery stow away , for great-grandfather Basset be a fine old gentleman and his family live in state .
Take your choice of the crimson , blue or silver-gray damask .
Ruth be to wear the worked muslin and quilt white satin skirt , with that coquettish hat . ''
`` Being dark , I 'll take the red and trim it up with this fine lace .
You must wear the blue and primrose , with the distract high-heeled shoe .
Have you any suit for the men ? ''
ask Emily , throw herself at once into the all-absorbing matter of costume .
`` A claret velvet coat and vest , silk stocking , cock hat and snuff-box for Randal .
Nothing large enough for Saul , so he must wear his uniform .
Wo n't Aunt Plumy be superb in this plum-colored satin and immense cap ? ''
A delightful morning be spend in adapt the faded finery of the past to the bloom beauty of the present , and time and tongue fly till the toot of a horn call them down to dinner .
The girl be amaze to see Randal come whistle up the road with his trouser tuck into his boot , blue mitten on his hand , and an unusual amount of energy in his whole figure , a he drive the ox , while Saul laugh at his vain attempt to guide the bewildered beast .
`` It 's immense !
The view from the hill be well worth seeing , for the snow glorify the landscape and remind one of Switzerland .
I 'm go to make a sketch of it this afternoon ; better come and enjoy the delicious freshness , young lady . ''
Randal be eat with such an appetite that he do not see the glance the girl exchange a they promise to go .
`` Bring home some more winter-green , I want thing to be real nice , and we have n't enough for the kitchen , '' say Ruth , dimple with girlish delight a she imagine herself dance under the green garland in her grandmother 's wed gown .
It be very lovely on the hill , for far a the eye could reach lay the wintry landscape sparkle with the brief beauty of sunshine on virgin snow .
Pines sigh overhead , hardy bird flit to and fro , and in all the trodden spot rise the little spire of evergreen ready for it Christmas duty .
Deeper in the wood sound the measured ring of ax , the crash of fall tree , while the red shirt of the men add color to the scene , and a fresh wind bring the aromatic breath of newly cleave hemlock and pine .
`` How beautiful it be !
I never know before what winter wood be like .
Did you , Sophie ? ''
ask Emily , sit on a stump to enjoy the novel pleasure at her ease .
`` I 've find out lately ; Saul let me come as often a I like , and this fine air seem to make a new creature of me , '' answer Sophie , look about her with sparkle eye , a if this be a kingdom where she reign supreme .
`` Something be make a new creature of you , that be very evident .
I have n't yet discover whether it be the air or some magic herb among that green stuff you be gather so diligently ; '' and Emily laugh to see the color deepen beautifully in her friend 's half-averted face .
`` Scarlet be the only wear just now , I find .
If we be lose like babe in the wood there be plenty of redbreast to cover u with leaf , '' and Randal join Emily 's laugh , with a glance at Saul , who have just pull his coat off .
`` You want to see this tree go down , so stand from under and I 'll show you how it 's do , '' say the farmer , take up his axe , not unwilling to gratify his guest and display his manly accomplishment at the same time .
It be a fine sight , the stalwart man swing his axe with magnificent strength and skill , each blow send a thrill through the stately tree , till it heart be reach and it totter to it fall .
Never pause for breath Saul shake his yellow mane out of his eye , and hew away , while the drop stand on his forehead and his arm ache , a bent on distinguish himself a if he have be a knight tilting against his rival for his lady 's favor .
`` I do n't know which to admire most , the man or his muscle .
One do n't often see such vigor , size and comeliness in these degenerate day , '' say Randal , mentally book the fine figure in the red shirt .
`` I think we have discover a rough diamond .
I only wonder if Sophie be go to try and polish it , '' answer Emily , glance at her friend , who stand a little apart , watch the rise and fall of the axe as intently a if her fate depend on it .
Down rush the tree at last , and , leave them to examine a crow 's nest in it branch , Saul go off to his men , a if he find the praise of his prowess rather too much for him .
Randal fell to sketch , the girl to their garland-making , and for a little while the sunny woodland nook be full of lively chat and pleasant laughter , for the air exhilarate them all like wine .
Suddenly a man come run from the wood , pale and anxious , say , a he hasten by for help , `` Blasted tree fell on him !
Bleed to death before the doctor come ! ''
`` Who ?
who ? ''
cry the startled trio .
But the man run on , with some breathless reply , in which only a name be audible -- `` Basset . ''
`` The deuce it be ! ''
and Randal drop his pencil , while the girl spring up in dismay .
Then , with one impulse , they hasten to the distant group , half visible behind the fall tree and cord wood .
Sophie be there first , and force her way through the little crowd of men , saw a red-shirted figure on the ground , crush and bleeding , and throw herself down beside it with a cry that pierce the heart of those who hear it .
In the act she saw it be not Saul , and cover her bewildered face a if to hide it joy .
A strong arm lift her , and the familiar voice say cheeringly , -- `` I 'm all right , dear .
Poor Bruce be hurt , but we 've send for help .
Better go right home and forget all about it . ''
`` Yes , I will , if I can do nothing ; '' and Sophie meekly return to her friend who stand outside the circle over which Saul 's head tower , assure them of his safety .
Hoping they have not see her agitation , she lead Emily away , leave Randal to give what aid he could and bring them news of the poor wood-chopper 's state .
Aunt Plumy produce the `` camphire '' the moment she saw Sophie 's pale face , and make her lie down , while the brave old lady trudge briskly off with bandage and brandy to the scene of action .
On her return she bring comfortable news of the man , so the little flurry blew over and be forget by all but Sophie , who remain pale and quiet all the evening , tie evergreen a if her life depend on it .
`` A good night 's sleep will set her up .
She ai n't use to such thing , dear child , and need cossetin ' , '' say Aunt Plumy , purr over her until she be in her bed , with a hot stone at her foot and a bowl of herb tea to quiet her nerve .
An hour later when Emily go up , she peep in to see if Sophie be sleep nicely , and be surprise to find the invalid wrapped in a dressing-gown writing busily .
`` Last will and testament , or sudden inspiration , dear ?
How be you ?
faint or feverish , delirious or in the dump !
Saul look so anxious , and Mrs. Basset hush u all up so , I come to bed , leave Randal to entertain Ruth . ''
As she speak Emily saw the paper disappear in a portfolio , and Sophie rise with a yawn .
`` I be write letter , but I 'm sleepy now .
Quite over my foolish fright , thank you .
Go and get your beauty sleep that you may dazzle the native to-morrow . ''
`` So glad , good night ; '' and Emily go away , say to herself , `` Something be go on , and I must find out what it be before I leave .
Sophie ca n't blind me . ''
But Sophie do all the next day , be delightfully gay at the dinner , and devote herself to the young minister who be invite to meet the distinguish novelist , and evidently be afraid of him , gladly bask in the smile of his charm neighbor .
A dash sleigh-ride occupy the afternoon , and then great be the fun and excitement over the costume .
Aunt Plumy laugh till the tear roll down her cheek a the girl compress her into the plum-colored gown with it short waist , leg-of-mutton sleeve , and narrow skirt .
But a worked scarf hid all deficiency , and the tower cap strike awe into the soul of the most frivolous observer .
`` Keep an eye on me , girl , for I shall certainly split somewhere or lose my head-piece off when I 'm trottin ' round .
What would my blessed mother say if she could see me rig out in her best thing ? ''
and with a smile and a sigh the old lady depart to look after `` the boy , '' and see that the supper be all right .
Three pretty damsel never trip down the wide staircase than the brilliant brunette in crimson brocade , the pensive blonde in blue , or the rosy little bride in old muslin and white satin .
A gallant court gentleman meet them in the hall with a superb bow , and escort them to the parlor , where Grandma Basset 's ghost be discover dance with a modern major in full uniform .
Mutual admiration and many compliment follow , till other ancient lady and gentleman arrive in all manner of queer costume , and the old house seem to wake from it humdrum quietude to sudden music and merriment , a if a past generation have return to keep it Christmas there .
The village fiddler soon strike up the good old tune , and then the stranger saw dance that fill them with mingle mirth and envy ; it be so droll , yet so hearty .
The young men , unusually awkward in their grandfather ' knee-breeches , flap vest , and swallow-tail coat , foot it bravely with the buxom girl who be the prettier for their quaintness , and dance with such vigor that their high comb stand awry , their furbelow wave wildly , and their cheek be as red a their breast-knots , or hose .
It be impossible to stand still , and one after the other the city folk yield to the spell , Randal lead off with Ruth , Sophie sweep away by Saul , and Emily be take possession of by a young giant of eighteen , who spin her around with a boyish impetuosity that take her breath away .
Even Aunt Plumy be discover jig it alone in the pantry , a if the music be too much for her , and the plate and glass jingle gaily on the shelf in time to Money Musk and Fishers ' Hornpipe .
A pause come at last , however , and fan flutter , heat brow be wipe , joke be make , lover exchange confidence , and every nook and corner hold a man and maid carrying on the sweet game which be never out of fashion .
There be a glitter of gold lace in the back entry , and a train of blue and primrose shone in the dim light .
There be a rich crimson than that of the geranium in the deep window , and a dainty shoe tap the bare floor impatiently a the brilliant black eye look everywhere for the court gentleman , while their owner listen to the gruff prattle of an enamored boy .
But in the upper hall walk a little white ghost a if wait for some shadowy companion , and when a dark form appear ran to take it arm , say , in a tone of soft satisfaction , -- `` I be so afraid you would n't come ! ''
`` Why do you leave me , Ruth ? ''
answer a manly voice in a tone of surprise , though the small hand slip from the velvet coat-sleeve be replace a if it be pleasant to feel it there .
A pause , and then the other voice answer demurely , -- `` Because I be afraid my head would be turn by the fine thing you be say . ''
`` It be impossible to help say what one feel to such an artless little creature a you be .
It do me good to admire anything so fresh and sweet , and wo n't harm you . ''
`` It might if -- '' `` If what , my daisy ? ''
`` I believe it , '' and a laugh seem to finish the broken sentence well than the word .
`` You may , Ruth , for I do sincerely admire the most genuine girl I have see for a long time .
And walk here with you in your bridal white I be just ask myself if I should not be a happy man with a home of my own and a little wife hang on my arm than drift about the world a I do now with only myself to care for . ''
`` I know you would ! ''
and Ruth speak so earnestly that Randal be both touched and startle , fear he have venture too far in a mood of unwonted sentiment , born of the romance of the hour and the sweet frankness of his companion .
`` Then you do n't think it would be rash for some sweet woman to take me in hand and make me happy , since fame be a failure ? ''
`` Oh , no ; it would be easy work if she love you .
I know some one -- if I only dare to tell her name . ''
`` Upon my soul , this be cool , '' and Randal look down , wonder if the audacious lady on his arm could be shy Ruth .
If he have see the malicious merriment in her eye he would have be more humiliated still , but they be modestly avert , and the face under the little hat be full of a soft agitation rather dangerous even to a man of the world .
`` She be a captivate little creature , but it be too soon for anything but a mild flirtation .
I must delay far innocent revelation or I shall do something rash . ''
While make this excellent resolution Randal have be press the hand upon his arm and gently pace down the dimly light hall with the sound of music in his ear , Ruth 's sweet rose in his button-hole , and a loving little girl beside him , a he think .
`` You shall tell me by and by when we be in town .
I be sure you will come , and meanwhile do n't forget me . ''
`` I be go in the spring , but I shall not be with Sophie , '' answer Ruth , in a whisper .
`` With whom then ?
I shall long to see you . ''
`` With my husband .
I be to be marry in May . ''
`` The deuce you be ! ''
escape Randal , a he stop short to stare at his companion , sure she be not in earnest .
But she be , for a he look the sound of step come up the back stair make her whole face flush and brighten with the unmistakable glow of happy love , and she complete Randal 's astonishment by run into the arm of the young minister , say with an irrepressible laugh , `` Oh , John , why do n't you come before ? ''
The court gentleman be all right in a moment , and the coolest of the three a he offer his congratulation and gracefully retire , leave the lover to enjoy the tryst he have delay .
But a he go down stairs his brow be knit , and he slap the broad railing smartly with his cocked hat a if some irritation must find vent in a more energetic way than merely say , `` Confound the little baggage ! ''
under his breath .
Such an amazing supper come from Aunt Plumy 's big pantry that the city guest could not eat for laugh at the queer dish circulate through the room , and copiously partaken of by the hearty young folk .
Doughnuts and cheese , pie and pickle , cider and tea , baked bean and custard , cake and cold turkey , bread and butter , plum pudding and French bonbon , Sophie 's contribution .
`` May I offer you the native delicacy , and share your plate ?
Both be very good , but the china have run short , and after such vigorous exercise a you have have you must need refreshment .
I 'm sure I do ! ''
say Randal , bow before Emily with a great blue platter laden with two doughnut , two wedge of pumpkin pie and two spoon .
The smile with which she welcome him , the alacrity with which she make room beside her and seem to enjoy the supper he bring , be so soothe to his ruffled spirit that he soon begin to feel that there be no friend like an old friend , that it would not be difficult to name a sweet woman who would take him in hand and would make him happy if he care to ask her , and he begin to think he would by and by , it be so pleasant to sit in that green corner with wave of crimson brocade flow over his foot , and a fine face soften beautifully under his eye .
The supper be not romantic , but the situation be , and Emily find that pie ambrosial food eaten with the man she love , whose eye talk more eloquently than the tongue just then busy with a doughnut .
Ruth keep away , but glance at them a she serve her company , and her own happy experience help her to see that all be go well in that quarter .
Saul and Sophie emerge from the back entry with shin countenance , but carefully avoid each other for the rest of the evening .
No one observe this but Aunt Plumy from the recess of her pantry , and she fold her hand a if well content , a she murmur fervently over a pan full of cruller , `` Bless the dear !
Now I can die happy . ''
Every one thought Sophie 's old-fashioned dress immensely become , and several of his former men say to Saul with blunt admiration , `` Major , you look to-night a you use to after we 'd gain a big battle . ''
`` I feel a if I have , '' answer the splendid Major , with eye much bright than his button , and a heart under them infinitely prouder than when he be promote on the field of honor , for his Waterloo be win .
There be more dancing , follow by game , in which Aunt Plumy shone pre-eminent , for the supper be off her mind and she could enjoy herself .
There be shout of merriment a the blithe old lady twirl the platter , hunt the squirrel , and go to Jerusalem like a girl of sixteen ; her cap in a ruinous condition , and every seam of the purple dress strain like sail in a gale .
It be great fun , but at midnight it come to an end , and the young folk , still bubble over with innocent jollity , go jingle away along the snowy hill , unanimously pronounce Mrs. Basset 's party the best of the season .
`` Never have such a good time in my life ! ''
exclaim Sophie , a the family stand together in the kitchen where the candle among the wreath be go out , and the floor be strew with wreck of past joy .
`` I 'm proper glad , dear .
Now you all go to bed and lay as late a you like to-morrow .
I 'm so kinder work up I could n't sleep , so Saul and me will put thing to right without a mite of noise to disturb you ; '' and Aunt Plumy send them off with a smile that be a benediction , Sophie think .
`` The dear old soul speak a if midnight be an unheard-of hour for Christians to be up .
What would she say if she know how we seldom go to bed till dawn in the ball season ?
I 'm so wide awake I 've half a mind to pack a little .
Randal must go at two , he say , and we shall want his escort , '' say Emily , a the girl lay away their brocade in the press in Sophie 's room .
`` I 'm not go .
Aunt ca n't spare me , and there be nothing to go for yet , '' answer Sophie , begin to take the white chrysanthemum out of her pretty hair .
`` My dear child , you will die of ennui up here .
Very nice for a week or so , but frightful for a winter .
We be go to be very gay , and can not get on without you , '' cry Emily dismay at the suggestion .
`` You will have to , for I 'm not come .
I be very happy here , and so tired of the frivolous life I lead in town , that I have decide to try a good one , '' and Sophie 's mirror reflect a face full of the sweet content .
`` Have you lose your mind ?
experience religion ?
or any other dreadful thing ?
You always be odd , but this last freak be the strange of all .
What will your guardian say , and the world ? ''
add Emily in the awe-stricken tone of one who stand in fear of the omnipotent Mrs. Grundy .
`` Guardy will be glad to be rid of me , and I do n't care that for the world , '' cry Sophie , snap her finger with a joyful sort of recklessness which complete Emily 's bewilderment .
`` But Mr. Hammond ?
Are you go to throw away million , lose your chance of make the best match in the city , and drive the girl of our set out of their wit with envy ? ''
Sophie laugh at her friend 's despair cry , and turn round say quietly , -- `` I write to Mr. Hammond last night , and this evening receive my reward for be an honest girl .
Saul and I be to be marry in the spring when Ruth be . ''
Emily fell prone upon the bed a if the announcement be too much for her , but be up again in an instant to declare with prophetic solemnity , -- `` I know something be go on , but hop to get you away before you be lose .
Sophie , you will repent .
Be warn , and forget this sad delusion . ''
`` Too late for that .
The pang I suffer yesterday when I think Saul be dead show me how well I love him .
To-night he ask me to stay , and no power in the world can part u .
Oh !
Emily , it be all so sweet , so beautiful , that everything be possible , and I know I shall be happy in this dear old home , full of love and peace and honest heart .
I only hope you may find a true and tender a man to live for a my Saul . ''
Sophie 's face be more eloquent than her fervent word , and Emily beautifully illustrate the inconsistency of her sex by suddenly embrace her friend , with the incoherent exclamation , `` I think I have , dear !
Your brave Saul be worth a dozen old Hammonds , and I do believe you be right . ''
It be unnecessary to tell how , a if draw by the irresistible magic of sympathy , Ruth and her mother crept in one by one to join the midnight conference and add their smile and tear , tender hope and proud delight to the joy of that memorable hour .
Nor how Saul , unable to sleep , mount guard below , and meet Randal prowl down to soothe his nerve with a surreptitious cigar find it impossible to help confide to his attentive ear the happiness that would break bound and overflow in unusual eloquence .
Peace fell upon the old house at last , and all slept a if some magic herb have touch their eyelid , bring blissful dream and a glad awakening .
`` Ca n't we persuade you to come with u , Miss Sophie ? ''
ask Randal next day , a they make their adieu .
`` I 'm under order now , and dare not disobey my superior officer , '' answer Sophie , hand her Major his drive glove , with a look which plainly show that she have join the great army of devoted woman who enlist for life and ask no pay but love .
`` I shall depend on be invite to your wedding , then , and yours , too , Miss Ruth , '' add Randal , shake hand with `` the little baggage , '' a if he have quite forgive her mockery and forget his own brief lapse into sentiment .
Before she could reply Aunt Plumy say , in a tone of calm conviction , that make them all laugh , and some of them look conscious , -- `` Spring be a good time for weddin 's , and I should n't wonder ef there be quite a number . ''
`` Nor I ; '' and Saul and Sophie smile at one another a they saw how carefully Randal arrange Emily 's wrap .
Then with kiss , thanks and all the good wish that happy heart could imagine , the guest drive away , to remember long and gratefully that pleasant country Christmas .
ON PICKET DUTY `` Better late than never . ''
`` What air you thinkin ' of , Phil ? ''
`` My wife , Dick . ''
`` So be I !
Ai n't it odd how feller fall to thinkin ' of thar little woman , when they get a quiet spell like this ? ''
`` Fortunate for u that we do get it , and have such memory to keep u brave and honest through the trial and temptation of a life like ours . ''
October moonlight shone clearly on the solitary tree , drape with gray moss , scar by lightning and warp by wind , look like a venerable warrior , whose long campaign be nearly do ; and underneath be post the guard of four .
Behind them twinkle many camp-fires on a distant plain , before them wind a road plough by the passage of an army , strewn with the relic of a rout .
On the right , a sluggish river glide , like a serpent , stealthy , sinuous , and dark , into a seemingly impervious jungle ; on the left , a Southern swamp fill the air with malarial damp , swarm of noisome life , and discordant sound that rob the hour of it repose .
The men be friend as well a comrade , for though gather from the four quarter of the Union , and dissimilar in education , character , and taste , the same spirit animate all ; the routine of camp-life throw them much together , and mutual esteem soon grow into a bond of mutual good fellowship .
Thorn be a Massachusetts volunteer ; a man who seem too early old , too early embitter by some cross , for , though grim of countenance , rough of speech , cold of manner , a keen observer would have soon discover trace of a deeper , warm nature hide behind the repellent front he turn upon the world .
A true New Englander , thoughtful , acute , reticent , and opinionated ; yet earnest withal , intensely patriotic , and often humorous , despite a touch of Puritan austerity .
Phil , the `` romantic chap , '' a he be call , look his character to the life .
Slender , swarthy , melancholy-eyed , and darkly-bearded ; with feminine feature , mellow voice , and alternately languid or vivacious manner .
A child of the South in nature a in aspect , ardent and proud ; fitfully aspire and despair ; without the native energy which mould character and ennoble life .
Months of discipline and devotion have do much for him , and some deep experience be fast ripen the youth into a man .
Flint , the long-limbed lumberman , from the wild of Maine , be a conscript who , when government demand his money or his life , calculate the cost , and decide that the cash would be a dead loss and the claim might be repeat , whereas the conscript would get both pay and plunder out of government , while take excellent care that government get very little out of him .
A shrewd , slow-spoken , self-reliant specimen , be Flint ; yet something of the fresh flavor of the backwoods linger in him still , a if Nature be loath to give him up , and leave the mark of her motherly hand upon him , a she leave it in a dry , pale lichen , on the bosom of the rough stone .
Dick `` hail '' from Illinois , and be a comely young fellow , full of dash and daring ; rough and rowdy , generous and jolly , overflow with spirit and ready for a free fight with all the world .
Silence follow the last word , while the friendly moon climb up the sky .
Each man 's eye follow it , and each man 's heart be busy with remembrance of other eye and heart that might be watch and wish a theirs watch and wish .
In the silence , each shape for himself that vision of home that brighten so many camp-fires , haunt so many dreamer under canvas roof , and keep so many turbulent nature tender by memory which often be both solace and salvation .
Thorn pace to and fro , his rifle on his shoulder , vigilant and soldierly , however soft his heart might be .
Phil lean against the tree , one hand in the breast of his blue jacket , on the painted presentment of the face his fancy be picture in the golden circle of the moon .
Flint lounge on the sward , whistle softly a he whittle at a fall bough .
Dick be flat on his back , heel in air , cigar in mouth , and some hilarious notion in his mind , for suddenly he break into a laugh .
`` What be it , lad ? ''
ask Thorn , pause in his tramp , a if willing to be draw from the disturb thought that make his black brow low and his mouth look grim .
`` Thinkin ' of my wife , and wishin ' she be here , bless her heart !
set me rememberin ' how I see her fust , and so I roar , a I always do when it come into my head . ''
`` How be it ?
Come , reel off a yarn , and let 's hear houw yeou hitch team , '' say Flint , always glad to get information concern his neighbor , if it could be cheaply do .
`` Tellin ' how we find our wife would n't be a bad game , would it , Phil ? ''
`` I 'm agreeable ; but let 's have your romance first . ''
`` Devilish little of that about me or any of my doin 's .
I hate sentimental bosh as much a you hate slang , and should have be a bachelor to this day if I have n't see Kitty jest a I do .
You see , I 'd be too busy larkin ' round to get time for marryin ' , till a couple of year ago , when I do up the job double-quick , a I 'd like to do this thunderin ' slow one , hang it all ! ''
`` Halt a minute till I give a look , for this picket be n't go to be drive in or take while I 'm on guard . ''
Down his beat go Thorn , reconnoitre river , road , and swamp , as thoroughly a one pair of keen eye could do it , and come back satisfied , but still growl like a faithful mastiff on the watch ; performance which he repeat at interval till his own turn come .
`` I do n't have to go out of my own State for a wife , you 'd better believe , '' begin Dick , with a boast , a usual ; `` for we raise a fine a crop of girl thar a any State in or out of the Union , and do n't mind raisin ' Cain with any man who deny it .
I be out on a gunnin ' tramp with Joe Partridge , a cousin of mine , -- poor old chap !
he fire his last shot at Gettysburg , and die game in a way he do n't dream of the day we pop off the bird together .
It ai n't right to joke that way ; I wo n't if I can help it ; but a feller get awfully kind of heathenish these time , do n't he ? ''
`` Settle up them score byme-by ; fightin ' Christians be scurse raound here .
Fire away , Dick . ''
`` Well , we get as hungry a hound half a dozen mile from home , and when a farmhouse hove in sight , Joe say he 'd ask for a bite , and leave some of the plunder for pay .
I be visitin ' Joe , do n't know folk round , and back out of the beggin ' part of the job ; so he go ahead alone .
We 'd come out of the wood behind the house , and while Joe be foragin ' , I take a reconnoissance .
The view be fust-rate , for the main part of it be a girl airin ' bed on the roof of a stoop .
Now , jest about that time , havin ' a leisure spell , I 'd begin to think of marryin ' , and take a look at all the girl I meet , with an eye to business .
I s ` pose every man have some sort of an idee or pattern of the wife he want ; pretty and plucky , good and gay be mine , but I 'd never find it till I see Kitty ; and a she do n't see me , I have the advantage and take an extra long stare . ''
`` What be her good p ` ints , hey ? ''
`` Oh , well , she have a wide-awake pair of eye , a bright , jolly sort of a face , lot of curly hair tumblin ' out of her net , a trig little figger , and a pair of the neat foot and ankle that ever step .
` Pretty , ' think I ; ` so far so good . '
The way she whack the pillers , shake the blanket , and pitch into the bed be a caution ; specially one blunderin ' old feather-bed that would n't do nothin ' but sag round in a pigheaded sort of way , that would have make most girl get mad and give up .
Kitty do n't , but just wrastled with it like a good one , till she get it turn , bang , and spread to suit her ; then she plump down in the middle of it , with a sarcy little nod and chuckle to herself , that tickle me mightily .
` Plucky , ' think I , ` well 'n ' well . '
Jest then an old woman come flyin ' out the back-door , callin ' , ` Kitty !
Kitty !
Squire Partridge 's son 's here , ` long with a friend ; be gunnin ' , want luncheon , and I 'm all in the suds ; do come down and see to 'em . ' ''
` Where be they ? '
say Kitty , scramble up her hair and settlin ' her gown in a jiffy , a woman have a knack of doin ' , you know . ''
` Mr. Joe 's in the front entry ; the other man 's somewhere round , Billy say , waitin ' till I send word whether they can stop .
I dars n't till I 'd see you , for I ca n't do nothin ' , I 'm in such a mess , ' say the old lady . ''
` So be I , for I ca n't get in except by the entry window , and he 'll see me , ' say Kitty , gigglin ' at the thought of Joe . ''
` Come down the ladder , there 's a dear .
I 'll pull it round and keep it stiddy , ' say the mother . ''
` Oh , ma , do n't ask me ! '
say Kitty , with a shiver .
` I 'm dreadfully scar of ladder since I break my arm off this very one .
It 's so high , it make me dizzy jest to think of . ' ''
` Well , then , I 'll do the best I can ; but I wish them boys be to Jericho ! '
say the old lady , with a groan , for she be fat and hot , have her gown pin up , and be in a fluster generally .
She be goin ' off rather huffy , when Kitty call out , -- '' ` Stop , ma !
I 'll come down and help you , only ketch me if I tumble . '
`` She look scared but stiddy , and I 'll bet it take as much grit for her to do it a for one of u to face a battery .
It do n't seem much to tell of , but I wish I may be hit if it be n't a right down dutiful and clever thing to see do .
When the old lady take her off at the bottom , with a good motherly hug , ` Good , ' think I ; ` what more do you want ? ' ''
`` A snug little property would n't a ben bad , I reckon , '' say Flint .
`` Well , she have it , old skin-flint , though I do n't know or care about it then .
What a jolly row she 'd make if she know I be tellin ' the ladder part of the story !
She always do when I get to it , and make believe cry , with her head in my breast-pocket , or any such handy place , till I take it out and swear I 'll never do so ag ` in .
Poor little Kit , I wonder what she 's doin ' now .
Thinkin ' of me , I 'll bet . ''
Dick pause , pull his cap lower over his eye , and smoke a minute with more energy than enjoyment , for his cigar be out and he do not perceive it .
`` That 's not all , be it ? ''
ask Thorn , take a fatherly interest in the young man 's love passage .
`` Not quite .
` Fore long , Joe whistle , and a I always take short cut everywhar , I put in at the back-door , jest a Kitty come trottin ' out of the pantry with a big berry-pie in her hand .
I startle her , she trip over the sill and down she come ; the dish fly one way , the pie flop into her lap , the juice spatterin ' my boot and her clean gown .
I think she 'd cry , scold , have hysteric , or some confounded thing or other ; but she jest sat still a minute , then look up at me with a great blue splash on her face , and go off into the good-natured gale of laughin ' you ever hear in your life .
That finish me .
` Gay , ' think I ; ` go in and win . '
So I do ; make love hand over hand , while I stay with Joe ; pupposed a fortnight after , marry her in three month , and there she be , a tiptop little woman , with a pair of stunnin ' boy in her arm ! ''
Out come a well-worn case , and Dick proudly display the likeness of a stout , much bejewel young woman with two star infant on her knee .
In his sight , the poor picture be a more perfect work of art than any of Sir Joshua 's baby-beauties , or Raphael 's Madonnas , and the little story need no good sequel than the young father 's praise of his twin , the covert kiss he give their mother when he turn as if to get a clearer light upon the face .
Ashamed to show the tenderness that fill his honest heart , he hum `` Kingdom Coming , '' relit his cigar , and presently begin to talk again .
`` Now , then , Flint , it 's your turn to keep guard , and Thorn 's to tell his romance .
Come , do n't try to shirk ; it do a man good to talk of such thing , and we 're all mate here . ''
`` In some case it do n't do any good to talk of such thing ; good let 'em alone , '' mutter Thorn , a he reluctantly sit down , while Flint a reluctantly depart .
With a glance and gesture of real affection , Phil lay his hand upon his comrade 's knee , say in his persuasive voice , `` Old fellow , it will do you good , because I know you often long to speak of something that weigh upon you .
You 've keep u steady many a time , and do u no end of kindness ; why be too proud to let u give our sympathy in return , if nothing more ? ''
Thorn 's big hand close over the slender one upon his knee , and the mild expression , so rarely see upon his face , pass over it a he reply , -- `` I think I could tell you almost anything if you ask me that way , my boy .
It be n't that I be too proud , -- and you 're right about my sometimes want to free my mind , -- but it 's because a man of forty do n't just like to open out to young fellow , if there be any danger of their laughing at him , though he may deserve it .
I guess there be n't now , and I 'll tell you how I find my wife . ''
Dick sit up , and Phil draw nearer , for the earnestness that be in the man dignify his plain speech , and inspire an interest in his history , even before it be begin .
Looking gravely at the river and never at his hearer , a if still a little shy of confidant , yet grateful for the relief of word , Thorn begin abruptly : -- `` I never hear the number eighty-four without clap my hand to my left breast and miss my badge .
You know I be on the police in New York , before the war , and that 's about all you do know yet .
One bitter cold night I be go my round for the last time , when , a I turn a corner , I saw there be a trifle of work to be do .
It be a bad part of the city , full of dirt and deviltry ; one of the street lead to a ferry , and at the corner an old woman have an apple-stall .
The poor soul have drop asleep , wear out with the cold , and there be her good leave with no one to watch 'em .
Somebody be watch 'em .
however ; a girl , with a ragged shawl over her head , stand at the mouth of an alley close by , wait for a chance to grab something .
I 'd see her there when I go by before , and mistrust she be up to some mischief ; a I turn the corner , she put out her hand and crib an apple .
She saw me the minute she do it , but neither drop it nor run , only stand stock still with the apple in her hand till I come up . ''
` This wo n't do , my girl , ' say I. I never could be harsh with 'em , poor thing !
She lay it back and look up at me with a miserable sort of a smile , that make me put my hand in my pocket to fish for a ninepence before she speak . '' '
I know it wo n't , ' she say . '
I do n't want to do it , it 's so mean , but I 'm awful hungry , sir . ' ''
` Better run home and get your supper , then . ' ''
` I 've get no home . ' ''
` Where do you live ? ' ''
` In the street . ' ''
` Where do you sleep ? ' ''
` Anywhere ; last night in the lock-up , and I think I 'd get in there again , if I do that when you saw me .
I like to go there , it 's warm and safe . ' ''
` If I do n't take you there , what will you do ? ' ''
` Do n't know .
I could go over there and dance again a I use to , but be sick have make me ugly , so they wo n't have me , and no one else will take me because I have be there once . '
`` I look where she point , and thank the Lord that they would n't take her .
It be one of those low theatre that do so much damage to the like of her ; there be a gambling place one side of it , an eat saloon the other .
I be new to the work then , but though I 'd hear about hunger and homelessness often enough , I 'd never have this sort of thing , nor see that look on a girl 's face .
A white , pinched face hers be , with frighten , tired-looking eye , but so innocent !
She be n't more than sixteen , have be pretty once , I saw , look sick and starve now , and seem just the most helpless , hopeless little thing that ever be . ''
` You 'd better come to the Station for to-night , and we 'll see to you to-morrow , ' say I. '' ` Thank you , sir , ' say she , look as grateful a if I 'd ask her home .
I suppose I do speak kind of fatherly .
I ai n't ashamed to say I felt so , see what a child she be ; nor to own that when she put her little hand in mine , it hurt me to feel how thin and cold it be .
We pass the eating-house where the red light make her face as rosy a it ought to have be ; there be meat and pie in the window , and the poor thing stop to look .
It be too much for her ; off come her shawl , and she say in that coax way of hers , -- '' ' I wish you 'd let me stop at the place close by and sell this ; they 'll give a little for it , and I 'll get some supper .
I 've have nothing since yesterday morning , and maybe cold be easy to bear than hunger . ' ''
` Have you nothing good than that to sell ? '
I say , not quite sure that she be n't all a humbug , like so many of 'em .
She seem to see that , and look up at me again with such innocent eye , I could n't doubt her when she say , shiver with something beside the cold , -- '' ` Nothing but myself . '
Then the tear come , and she lay her head clown on my arm , sobbing , -- ` Keep me !
oh , do keep me safe somewhere ! ' ''
Thorn choke here , steady his voice with a resolute hem !
but could only add one sentence more , -- `` That 's how I find my wife . ''
`` Come , do n't stop thar .
I tell the whole o ' mine , you do the same .
Whar do you take her ?
how 'd it all come round ? ''
`` Please tell u , Thorn . ''
The gentler request be answer presently , very steadily , very quietly .
`` I be always a soft-hearted fellow , though you would n't think it now , and when that little girl ask me to keep her safe , I just do it .
I take her to a good woman whom I know , for I have n't any woman folk belong to me , nor any place but that to put her in .
She stay there till spring work for her keep , grow brighter , pretty , every day , and fonder of me , I think .
If I believe in witchcraft , I should n't think myself such a fool a I do now , but I do n't believe in it , and to this day I ca n't understand how I come to do it .
To be sure I be a lonely man , without kith or kin , have never have a sweetheart in my life , or be much with woman since my mother die .
Maybe that 's why I be so bewitch with Mary , for she have little way with her that take your fancy and make you love her whether you would or no .
I find her father be an honest fellow enough , a fiddler in some theatre ; that he 'd take good care of Mary till he die , leave precious little but advice for her to live on .
She 'd try to get work , fail , spend all she have , get sick , and be go to the bad , a the poor soul can hardly help do with so many ready to give them a shove .
It 's no use try to make a bad job well ; so the long and short of it be , I think she love me ; God know I love her !
and I marry her before the year be out . ''
`` Show u her picture ; I know you 've get one ; all the fellow have , though half of 'em wo n't own up . ''
`` I 've only get part of one .
I once save my little girl , and her picture once save me . ''
From an inner pocket Thorn produce a woman 's housewife , carefully untie it , though all it implement be miss but a little thimble , and from one of it compartment take a flattened bullet and the remnant of a picture .
`` I give her that the first Christmas after I find her .
She be n't a tidy about her clothes a I like to see , and I think if I give her a handy thing like this , she 'd be willing to sew .
But she only make one shirt for me , and then get tired , so I keep it like an old fool , a I be .
Yes , that 's the bit of lead that would have do for me , if Mary 's likeness have n't be just where it be . ''
`` You 'll like to show her this when you go home , wo n't you ? ''
say Dick , a he take up the bullet , while Phil examine the marred picture , and Thorn poise the little thimble on his big finger , with a sigh .
`` How can I , when I do n't know where she be , and camp be all the home I 've get ! ''
The word break from him like a sudden groan , when some old wound be rudely touch .
Both of the young men start , both lay back the relic they have take up , and turn their eye from Thorn 's face , across which sweep a look of shame and sorrow , too significant to be misunderstood .
Their silence assure him of their sympathy , and , a if that touch of friendliness unlock his heavy heart , he ease it by a full confession .
When he speak again , it be with the calmness of repressed emotion , a calmness more touching to his mate than the most passionate outbreak , the most pathetic lamentation ; for the coarse camp-phrases seem to drop from his vocabulary ; more than once his softened voice grow tremulous , and to the word `` my little girl , '' there go a tenderness that prove how dear a place she still retain in that deep heart of his .
`` Boys , I 've go so far ; I may as well finish ; and you 'll see I 'm not without some cause for my stern look and way ; you 'll pity me , and from you I 'll take the comfort of it .
It 's only the old story , -- I marry her , work for her , live for her , and keep my little girl like a lady .
I should have know that I be too old and sober for a young thing like that , for the life she lead before the pinch come just suit her .
She like to be admire , to dress and dance and make herself pretty for all the world to see ; not to keep house for a quiet man like me .
Idleness be n't good for her , it breed discontent ; then some of her old friend , who 'd leave her in her trouble , find her out when good time come round , and try to get her back again .
I be away all day , I do n't know how thing be go , and she be n't open with me , afraid she say ; I be so grave , and hat theatre so .
She get courage finally to tell me that she be n't happy ; that she want to dance again , and ask me if she might n't .
I 'd rather have have her ask me to put her in a fire , for I do hate theatre , and be breed to ; others think they 're no harm .
I do ; and know it be a bad life for a girl like mine .
It pamper vanity , and vanity be the Devil 's help with such ; so I say No , kindly at first , sharp and stern when she keep on teasing .
That rouse her spirit . '
I will go ! '
she say , one day .
` Not while you be my wife , ' I answer back ; and neither say any more , but she give me a look I do n't think she could , and I resolve to take her away from temptation before bad come of it .
`` I do n't tell her my plan ; but I resign my place , spend a week or more finding and fix a little home for her out in the wholesome country , where she 'd be safe from theatre and disreputable friend , and maybe learn to love me good when she saw how much she be to me .
It be come summer , and I make thing look a home-like and as pretty a I could .
She like flower , and I fix a garden for her ; she be fond of pet , and I get her a bird , a kitten , and a dog to play with her ; she fancy gay color and tasty little matter , so I fill her room with all the handsome thing I could afford , and when it be do , I be as pleased a any boy , think what happy time we 'd have together and how pleased she 'd be .
Boys , when I go to tell her and to take her to her little home , she be go . ''
`` Who with ? ''
`` With those cursed friend of her ; a party of them leave the city just then ; she be wild to go ; she have money now , and all her good look back again .
They tease and tempt her ; I be n't there to keep her , and she go , leave a line behind to tell me that she love the old life more than the new ; that my house be a prison , and she hop I 'd let her go in peace .
That almost kill me ; but I manage to bear it , for I know most of the fault be mine ; but it be awful bitter to think I have n't save her , after all . ''
`` Oh , Thorn !
what do you do ? ''
`` Went straight after her ; find her dancing in Philadelphia , with paint on her cheek , trinket on her neck and arm , look pretty than ever ; but the innocent eye be go , and I could n't see my little girl in the bold , handsome woman twirl there before the footlights .
She saw me , look scar at first , then smile , and dance on with her eye upon me , a if she say , -- '' ` See !
I 'm happy now ; go away and let me be . '
`` I could n't stand that , and get out somehow .
People think me mad , or drunk ; I do n't care , I only want to see her once in quiet and try to get her home .
I could n't do it then nor afterwards by fair mean , and I would n't try force .
I write to her , promise to forgive her , beg her to come back , or let me keep her honestly somewhere away from me .
But she never answer , never come , and I have never try again . ''
`` She be n't worthy of you , Thorn ; you jest forgit her . ''
`` I wish I could !
I wish I could ! ''
In his voice quiver an almost passionate regret , and a great sob heave his chest , a he turn his face away to hide the love and longing , still so tender and so strong .
`` Do n't say that , Dick ; such fidelity should make u charitable for it own sake .
There be always time for penitence , always certainty of pardon .
Take heart , Thorn , you may not wait in vain , and she may yet return to you . ''
`` I know she will !
I 've dream of it , I 've pray for it ; every battle I come out of safe make me sure that I be keep for that , and when I 've bear enough to atone for my part of the fault , I 'll be repay for all my patience , all my pain , by find her again .
She know how well I love her still , and if there come a time when she be sick and poor and all alone again , then she 'll remember her old John , then she 'll come home and let me take her in . ''
Hope shone in Thorn 's melancholy eye , and long-suffering , all-forgiving love beautify the rough , brown face , a he fold his arm and bend his gray head on his breast , a if the wanderer be already come .
The emotion which Dick scorn to show on his own account be freely manifest for another , a he sniff audibly , and , boy-like , draw his sleeve across his eye .
But Phil , with the delicate perception of a finer nature , felt that the truest kindness he could show his friend be to distract his thought from himself , to spare him any comment , and lessen the embarrassment which would surely follow such unwonted confidence .
`` Now I 'll relieve Flint , and he will give you a laugh .
Come on , Hiram , and tell u about your Beulah . ''
The gentleman address have perform his duty by sit on a fence and `` right up '' his pocket , to beguile the tedium of his exile .
Before his multitudinous possession could be restore to their native sphere , Thorn be himself again , and on his foot .
`` Stay where you be , Phil ; I like to tramp , it seem like old time , and I know you 're tire .
Just forget all this I 've be say , and go on a before .
Thank you , boys !
thank you , '' and with a grasp of the two hand extend to him , he stride away along the path already wear by his own restless foot .
`` It 's do him good , and I 'm glad of that ; but I 'd like to see the little baggage that bewitch the poor old boy , would n't you , Phil ? ''
`` Hush !
here 's Flint . ''
`` What 's up naow ?
want me tew address the meetin ' , hey ?
I 'm willin ' , only the laugh 's ruther ag ` inst me , ef I tell that story ; expect you 'll like it all the good fer that . ''
Flint coil up his long limb , put his hand in his pocket , chew meditatively for a moment , and then begin , with his slow drawl : -- `` Waal , sir , it 's pretty nigh ten year ago , I be damster daown tew Oldtaown , clos ' t to Banggore .
My folk live tew Bethel ; there be only the old man , and Aunt Siloam , keepin ' house fer him , seein ' a I be the only chick he hed .
I hed n't hear from 'em fer a long spell , when there come a letter sayin ' the old man be breakin ' up .
He 'd say it every spring fer a number er year , and I do n't mind it no more 'n the breakin ' up er the river ; not so much , jest then ; fer the gret spring drive be comin ' on , and my hand be tew full to quit work all tew oncet .
I send word I 'd be ` long ` fore a gret while , and byme-by I go .
I ought tew hev go at fust ; but they 'd sing aout ` Wolf ! '
so often I war n't scar ; an ' sure ` nuff the wolf do come at last .
Father hed be dead and berry a week when I get there , and aunt be so mad she would n't write , nor scurcely speak tew me for a consider ` ble spell .
I do n't blame her a mite , and felt jest the wust kind ; so I give in every way , and fetch her raound .
Yeou see I bed a cousin who 'd kind er take my place tew hum while I be off , an ' the old man hed leave him a good slice er his money , an ' me the farm , hopin ' to keep me there .
He 'd never like the lumberin ' bizness , an ' hankered arfter me a sight , I faound .
Waal , seem ' haow 't be , I try tew please him , late a it be ; but ef there be ennything I do spleen ag ` inst it be farmin ' , ` specially arfter the smart time I 'd ben hevin ' , up Oldtaown way .
Yeou do n't know nothin ' abaout it ; but ef yeou want tew see high dewin 's , jest hitch onto a timber-drive an ' go it daown along them lake and river , say from Kaumchenungamooth tew Punnobscot Bay .
Guess yeou 'd see a thing or tew , an ' find livin ' on a log come as handy a ef you be bear a turtle .
`` Waal , I stand it one summer ; but it be the long kind of a job .
Come fall I turn contry , darn the farm , and vaowed I 'd go back tew loggin ' .
Aunt hed get fond er me by that time , and felt dreadful bad abaout my leavin ' on her .
Cousin Siah , a we call Josiah , do n't cotton tew the old woman , though he do tew her cash ; but we hitch along fust-rate .
She be ` tached tew the place , hat tew hev it let or sell , think I 'd go to everlastin ' rewin ef I take tew lumberin ' ag ` in , an ' hevin ' a tidy little sum er money all her own , she take a notion tew buy me off .
` Hiram , ' sez she , ` ef yeou 'll stay to hum , merry some smart girl , an ' kerry on the farm , I 'll leave yeou the hull er my fortin .
Ef yeou do n't , I 'll leave every cent o n't tew Siah , though he ai n't do a waal by me a yeou hev .
Come , ' sez she , ` I 'm breakin ' up like brother ; I sha n't wurry any one a gret while , and ` fore spring I dessay you 'll hev cause tew rejice that yeou do a Aunt Si counsel yeou . '
`` Now , that idee kinder take me , seem ' I hed n't no overpaourin ' love fer cousin ; but I brewdid over it a spell ` fore I ` greed .
Fin ` lly , I say I 'd dew it , a it war n't a hard nor a bad trade ; and begin to look raound fer Mis Flint , Jr. .
Aunt be dreadf ' l please ; but ` mazin ' pertickler a tew who be goin ' tew stan ' in her shoe , when she be fetch up ag ` inst the etarnal boom .
There be a sight er likely womenfolks raound taown ; but aunt she set her foot daown that Mis Flint must be smart , pious , an ' good-natered ; harnsome she do n't say nothin ' abaout , bein ' the humliest woman in the State er Maine .
I hed my own calk ` lations on that p ` int , an ' go sparkin ' two or three er the pootiest gal , all that winter .
I war n't in no hurry , fer merryin ' be an awful resky bizness ; an ' I wa n't goan to be take in by nobuddy .
Some haouw I could n't make up my mind which I 'd hev , and keep dodgin ' , all ready to slew raound , an ' hitch on tew ary one that seem likeliest .
` Long in March , aunt , she ketched cold , take tew her bed , get wuss , an ' tell me tew hurry up , fer nary cent should I hev , ef I war n't safely merried ` fore she step out .
I think that be ruther craoudin ' a feller ; but I see she be goan sure , an ' I 'd get inter a way er considerin ' the cash mine , so that it come hard to hear abaout givin ' on ' t up .
Off I go that evenin ' an ' asked Almiry Nash ef she 'd hev me .
No , she would n't ; I 'd shilly-shallyed so long , she 'd get tired er waitin ' and take tew keepin ' company with a doctor daown ter Banggore , where she 'd ben visitin ' a spell .
I do n't find that as hard a nub to swaller , a I 'd a thought I would , though Almiry be the rich , pootiest , and good-naterest of the lot .
Aunt larfed waal , an ' tell me tew try ag ` in ; so a couple er night arfter , I spruce up , an ' go over to Car ` line Miles 's ; she be as smart a old cheese , an ' waal off in tew the barg ` in .
I be just a sure she 'd hev me , a I be that I 'm gittin ' the rewmatiz a settin ' in this ma ` sh .
But that minx , Almiry , hed ben and let on abaout her own sarsy way er servin ' on me , an ' Car ` line jest up an ' say she war n't goan to hev annybuddy 's leavin 's ; so daown I come ag ` in .
`` Things be gettin ' desper ' t by that time ; fer aunt be failin ' rapid , an ' the story hed leak aout some way , so the hull taown be gigglin ' over it .
I think I 'd better quit them part ; but aunt she show me her will all do complete , ` sceptin the fust name er the legatee .
` There , ' sez she , ` it all depend on yeou , whether that place be take by Hiram or Josiah .
It 's easy do , an ' so it 's goan tew stan till the last minit . '
That rile me consid ` able , an ' I streak off tew May Jane Simlin 's .
She wa n't very waal off , nor extra harnsome , but she be pious the bad kind , an ' dreadf ' l clever to them she fancy .
But I be daown on my luck ag ` in ; fer at the fust word I speak of merryin ' , she show me the door , an ' give me to understan ' that she could n't think er hevin ' a man that war n't a church-member , that have n't experience religion , or even ben struck with conviction , an ' all the rest o n't .
Ef anny one hed a wanted tew hev see a walkin ' hornet 's nest , they could hev do it cheap that night , a I go hum .
I jest bounce intew the kitchen , chuck my hat intew one corner , my coat intew ` nother , kick the cat , cuss the fire , draw up a chair , and set scaoulin ' like sixty , bein ' tew mad fer talkin ' .
The young woman that be nussin ' aunt , -- Bewlah Blish , by name , -- be a cooking grewel on the coal , and ` peared tew understan ' the mess I be in ; but she do n't say nothin ' , only blow up the fire , fetch me a mug er cider , an ' go raound so kind quiet , and sympathize that I find the wrinkle in my temper gettin ' smooth aout ` mazin ' quick ; an ' fore long I make a clean breast er the hull thing .
Bewlah larfed , but I do n't mind her doin ' o n't , for she sez , sez she , real sort o ' cunnin ' , -- '' ` Poor Hiram !
they do n't use yeou waal .
Yeou ought to hev tried some er the poor an ' humly girl ; they 'd a be glad an ' grateful fer such a sweetheart a yeou be . '
`` I be good-natered ag ` in by that time , an ' I sez , larfin ' along with her , ` Waal , I 've get three mitten , but I guess I might 's waal hev ` nother , and that will make two pair complete .
Say , Bewlah , will yeou hev me ? ' ''
` Yes , I will . '
sez she . ''
` Reelly ? '
sez I. '' ` Solemn trew , ' sez she .
`` Ef she 'd up an ' slap me in the face , I should n't hev ben more throwed aback , fer I never mistrust she care two chip for me .
I jest set an ' gawp ; fer she be ` solemn trew , ' I see that with half an eye , an ' it kinder take my breath away .
Bewlah draw the grewel off the fire , wipe her hand , an ' stood lookin ' at me a minnet , then she sez , slow an ' quiet , but tremblin ' a little , a woman hev a way er doin ' , when they 've consid ` able steam aboard , -- '' ` Hiram , other folk think lumberin ' have spill yeou ; I do n't ; they call you rough an ' rewd ; I know you 've get a real kind heart fer them a know haow tew find it .
Them girl give yeou up so easy , 'cause they never love yeou , an ' yeou give them up 'cause you only think abaout their look an ' money .
I 'm humly , an ' I 'm poor ; but I 've love yeou ever sence we go a-nuttin ' year ago , an ' yeou shake daown fer me , kerried my bag , and kiss me tew the gate , when all the others shun me , 'cause my father drink an ' I be shabby dress , ugly , an ' shy .
Yeou ask me in sport , I answer in airnest ; but I do n't expect nothin ' unless yeou mean a I mean .
Like me , Hiram , or leave me , it wo n't make no odds in my lovin ' of yeou , nor helpin ' of yeou , ef I kin . ' ''
` Tai n't easy tew say haouw I felt , while she be goin ' on that way , but my idees be tumblin ' raound inside er me , a ef half a dozen dam be break loose all tew oncet .
One think be ruther stiddier 'n the rest , an ' that be that I like Bewlah more 'n I know .
I begin tew see what kep ' me loafin ' tew hum so much , sence aunt be take daown ; why I wa n't in no hurry tew git them other gal , an ' haow I come tew pocket my mitten so easy arfter the fust rile be over .
Bewlah be humly , poor in flesh , dreadful freckle , hed red hair , black eye , an ' a gret mold side of her nose .
But I 'd get wonted tew her ; she know my way , be a fust rate housekeeper , real good-tempered , and pious without flingin ' o n't in yer face .
She be a lonely creeter , -- her folk bein ' all dead but one sister , who do n't use her waal , an ' somehow I kinder yearn over her , a they say in Scripter .
For all I set an ' gawped , I be come raound fast , though I felt a I use tew , when I be goin ' to shoot the rapid , kinder breathless an ' oncertin , whether I 'd come aout right side up or not .
Queer , war n't it ? ''
`` Love , Flint ; that be a sure symptom of it . ''
`` Waal , guess 't be ; anyway I jump up all of a sudden , ketched Bewlah raound the neck , give her a hearty kiss , and sung aout , ` I 'll dew it sure 's my name 's Hi Flint ! '
The word be scarcely out of my maouth , ` fore daown come Dr. Parr .
He ' d ben up tew see aunt , an ' say she would n't last the night threw , prob ` ly .
That give me a scare er the wust kind ; an ' when I tell doctor haow thing be , he sez , kinder jokin ' , -- '' ` Better git merried right away , then .
Parson Dill be tew come an ' see the old lady , an ' he 'll dew both job tew oncet . ' ''
` Will yeou , Bewlah ? '
sez I. '' ` Yes , Hiram , to ` blige yeou , ' sez she .
`` With that , I put it fer the license ; get it , an ' be back in less 'n half an haour , most tucker aout with the flurry of the hull concern .
Quick a I 'd be , Bewlah hed faound time tew whip on her best gaoun , fix up her hair , and put a couple er white chrissanthymums intew her hand ` chif pin .
Fer the fust time in her life , she look harnsome , -- leastways I think so , -- with a pretty color in her cheek , somethin ' brighter 'n a larf shinin ' in her eye , and her lip smilin ' an ' tremblin ' , a she come to me an ' whisper so 's ' t none er the rest could hear , -- '' ` Hiram , do n't yeou dew it , ef yeou 'd ruther not .
I 've stand it a gret while alone , an ' I guess I can ag ` in . '
`` Never yeou mind what I say or do abaout that ; but we be merried ten minute arfter , ` fore the kitchen fire , with Dr. Parr an ' aour hire man , fer witness ; an ' then we all go up tew aunt .
She be goan fast , but she understand what I tell her , hed strength tew fill up the hole in the will , an ' to say , a-kissin ' Bewlah , ` Yeou 'll be a good wife , an ' naow yeou ai n't a poor one . '
`` I could n't help givin ' a peek tew the will , and there I see not Hiram Flint nor Josiah Flint , but Bewlah Flint , write every which way , but as plain a the nose on yer face .
` It wo n't make no odds , dear , ' whisper my wife , peekin ' over my shoulder .
` Guess it wo n't ! '
sez I , aout laoud ; ` I 'm glad o n't , and it ai n't a cent more 'n yeou derserve . '
`` That pleased aunt .
` Riz me , Hiram , ' sez she ; an ' when I 'd get her easy , she put her old arm raound my neck , an ' tried to say , ` God bless you , dear -- , ' but die a doin ' of it ; an ' I ai n't ashamed tew say I boohooed real hearty , when I lay her daown , fer she be dreadf ' l good tew me , an ' I do n't forgit her in a hurry . ''
`` How 's Bewlah ? ''
ask Dick , after the little tribute of respect all pay to Aunt Siloam 's memory , by a momentary silence .
`` Fust-rate !
that harum-scarum venter er mine be the best I ever make .
She 's do waal by me , hes Bewlah ; ben a grand good housekeeper , kin kerry on the farm well 'n me , any time , an ' be a dutif ' l an ' lovin ' a wife a , -- waal , a annything that be extra dutif ' l and lovin ' . ''
`` Got any boy to brag of ? ''
`` We do n't think much o ' boy daown aour way ; they 're ` mazin ' resky stock to fetch up , -- alluz breakin ' baounds , gittin ' intew the paound , and wurryin ' your life aout somehaow ` nother .
Gals naow doos waal ; I 've get six o ' the likeliest the be goin ' , every one on 'em be the very moral of Bewlah , -- red hair , black eye , quiet way , an ' a mold ` side the nose .
Baby 's ai n't grow yet ; but I expect tew see it in a consid ` able state o ' forrardness , when I git hum , an ' would n't miss it fer the world . ''
The droll expression of Flint 's face , and the satisfied twang of his last word , be irresistible .
Dick and Phil go off into a shout of laughter ; and even Thorn 's grave lip relapse into a smile at the vision of six little Flints with their six little mole .
As if the act be an establish ceremony , the `` paternal head '' produce his pocket-book , select a worn black-and-white paper , which he spread in his broad palm , and display with the air of a connoisseur .
`` There , thet 's Bewlah !
we call it a cuttin ' ; but the proper name 's a silly-hoot , I b ` leeve .
I 've get a harnsome big degarrytype tew hum , but the heft o n't make it bad tew kerry raound , so I take this .
I do n't tote it abaout inside my shirt , a some dew , -- it ai n't my way ; but I keep it in my wallet long with my other valleu ` bles , and guess I set as much store by it a ef it be all paint up , and do off to kill . ''
The `` silly-hoot '' be examine with interest , and carefully stow away again in the old brown wallet , which be settle in it place with a satisfied slap ; then Flint say briskly , -- `` Naouw , Phil , yeou close this interestin ' and instructive meeting ; and be spry , fer time 's most up . ''
`` I have n't much to tell , but must begin with a confession which I have often long but never dare to make before , because I be a coward . ''
`` Sho !
who 's goan to b ` leeve that o ' a man who fit like a wild-cat , wuz offer permotion on the field , and report tew headquarters arfter his fust scrimmage .
Try ag ` in , Phil . ''
`` Physical courage be as plentiful a brass button , nowadays , but moral courage be a rarer virtue ; and I 'm lack in it , a I 'll prove .
You think me a Virginian ; I 'm an Alabamian by birth , and be a Rebel three month ago . ''
This confession startle his hearer , a he know it would , for he have keep his secret well .
Thorn lay his hand involuntarily upon his rifle , Dick draw off a little , and Flint illustrate one of his own expression , for he `` gawp . ''
Phil laugh that musical laugh of his , and look up at them with his dark face wake into sudden life , a he go on : -- `` There 's no treason in the camp , for I 'm a fierce a Federalist a any of you now , and you may thank a woman for it .
When Lee make his raid into Pennsylvania , I be a lieutenant in the -- well , never mind what regiment , it have n't signalize itself since , and I 'd rather not hit my old neighbor when they be down .
In one of the skirmish during our retreat , I get a wound and be leave for dead .
A kind old Quaker find and take me home ; but though I be too weak to talk , I have my sens by that time , and know what go on about me .
Everything be in confusion , even in that well-ordered place : no surgeon could be get at first , and a flock of frightened woman thee 'd and thou 'd one another over me , but have n't wit enough to see that I be bleed to death .
Among the face that dance before my dizzy eye be one that seem familiar , probably because no cap surround it .
I be glad to have it bend over me , to hear a steady voice say , ` Give me a bandage , quick ! '
and when none be instantly forthcoming to me , the young lady strip up a little white apron she wear , and stanch the wound in my shoulder .
I be not a badly hurt a I suppose , but so worn-out , and faint from loss of blood , they believe me to be die , and so do I , when the old man take off his hat and say , -- `` Friend , if thee have anything to say , thee have good say it , for thee probably have not long to live . '
`` I think of my little sister , far away in Alabama , fancy she come to me , and mutter , ` Amy , kiss me good-by . '
The woman sob at that ; but the girl bent her sweet compassionate face to mine , and kiss me on the forehead .
That be my wife . ''
`` So you secede from Secession right away , to pay for that lip-service , hey ? ''
`` No , Thorn , not right away , -- to my shame be it spoken .
I 'll tell you how it come about .
Margaret be not old Bent 's daughter , but a Massachusetts girl on a visit , and a long one it prove , for she could n't go till thing be quieter .
While she wait , she help take care of me ; for the good soul pet me like a baby when they find that a Rebel could be a gentleman .
I hold my tongue , and behave my best to prove my gratitude , you know .
Of course , I love Margaret very soon .
How could I help it ?
She be the sweet woman I have ever see , tender , frank , and spirit ; all I have ever dream of and long for .
I do not speak of this , nor hope for a return , because I know she be a hearty Unionist , and think she only tend me from pity .
But suddenly she decide to go home , and when I venture to wish she would stay longer , she would not listen , and say , ' I must not stay ; I should have go before . '
`` The word be nothing , but a she utter them the color come up beautifully over all her face , and her eye fill a they look away from mine .
Then I know that she love me , and my secret break out against my will .
Margaret be force to listen , for I would not let her go , but she seem to harden herself against me , grow colder , stiller , stately , a I go on , and when I say in my desperate way , -- '' ` You should love me , for we be bid to love our enemy , ' she flash an indignant look at me and say , -- '' ' I will not love what I can not respect !
Come to me a loyal man , and see what answer I shall give you . '
`` Then she go away .
It be the wise thing she could have do , for absence do more to change me than an ocean of tear , a year of exhortation .
Lying there , I miss her every hour of the day , recall every gentle act , kind word , and fair example she have give me .
I contrast my own belief with hers , and find a new significance in the word honesty and honor , and , remember her fidelity to principle , be ashamed of my own treason to God and to herself .
Education , prejudice , and interest , be difficult thing to overcome , and that be the hot fight I ever pass through , for a I tell you , I be a coward .
But love and loyalty win the day , and , ask no quarter , the Rebel surrender . ''
`` Phil Beaufort , you 're a brick ! ''
cry Dick , with a sound slap on his comrade 's shoulder .
`` A brand snatch from the burnin ' .
Hallelujah ! ''
chant Flint , seesaw with excitement .
`` Then you go to find your wife ?
How ?
Where ? ''
ask Thorn , forget vigilance in interest .
`` Friend Bent hat war so heartily that he would have nothing to do with parole , exchange , or any martial process whatever , but bid me go when and where I like , remember to do by others a I have be do by .
Before I be well enough to go , however , I manage , by mean of Copperhead influence and return prisoner , to send a letter to my father and receive an answer .
You can imagine what both contain ; and so I find myself penniless , but not poor , an outcast , but not alone .
Old Bent treat me like a prodigal son , and put money in my purse ; his pretty daughter love me for Margaret 's sake , and give me a patriotic salute all round when I leave them , the humble , happy man in Pennsylvania .
Margaret once say to me that this be the time for deed , not word ; that no man should stand idle , but serve the good cause with head , heart , and hand , no matter in what rank ; for in her eye a private fighting for liberty be nobler than a dozen general defend slavery .
I remember that , and , not have influential friend to get me a commission , enlist in one of her own Massachusetts regiment , know that no act of mine would prove my sincerity like that .
You should have see her face when I walk in upon her , a she sit alone , busy with the army work , a I 'd so often see her sitting by my bed ; it show me all she have be suffer in silence , all I should have lose have I choose darkness instead of light .
She hop and fear so much she could not speak , neither could I , but drop my cloak , and show her that , through love of her , I have become a soldier of the Union .
How I love the coarse blue uniform !
for when she saw it , she come to me without a word and keep her promise in a month . ''
`` Thunder !
what a harnsome woman ! ''
exclaim Flint , a Phil , open the golden case that hold his talisman , show them the beautiful , beloved face of which he speak .
`` Yes !
and a right noble woman too .
I do n't deserve her , but I will .
We part on our wedding-day , for order to be off come suddenly , and she would not let me go until I have give her my name to keep .
We be marry in the morning , and at noon I have to go .
Other woman wept a we march through the city , but my brave Margaret keep her tear till we be go , smile and wave her hand to me , -- the hand that wear the wedding-ring , -- till I be out of sight .
That image of her be before me day and night , and day and night her last word be ring in my ear , -- '' ' I give you freely , do your best .
Better a true man 's widow than a traitor 's wife . '
`` Boys , I 've only stood on the right side for a month ; I 've only fought one battle , earn one honor ; but I believe these poor achievement be an earnest of the long atonement I desire to make for five-and-twenty year of blind transgression .
You say I fight well .
Have I not cause to dare much ?
-- for in own many slave , I too become a slave ; in help to make many freeman , I liberate myself .
You wonder why I refuse promotion .
Have I any right to it yet ?
Are there not men who never sin a I have do , and beside whose sacrifice mine look pitifully small ?
You tell me I have no ambition .
I have the high , for I desire to become God 's noble work , -- an honest man , -- living , to make Margaret happy in a love that every hour grow worthy of her own , -- die to make death proud to take me . ''
Phil have rise while he speak , a if the enthusiasm of his mood lift him into the truer manhood he aspire to attain .
Straight and strong he stand up in the moonlight , his voice deepen by unwonted energy , his eye clear and steadfast , his whole face ennoble by the regenerate power of this late loyalty to country , wife , and self , and bright against the dark blue of his jacket shine the pictured face , the only medal he be proud to wear .
Ah , brave , brief moment , cancel year of wrong !
Ah , fair and fatal decoration , serve a a mark for a hidden foe !
The sharp crack of a rifle break the stillness of the night , and with those hopeful word upon his lip , the young man seal his purpose with his life .
THE BARON 'S GLOVES ; OR , AMY 'S ROMANCE `` All be fair in love and war . ''
I HOW THEY WERE FOUND `` What a long sigh !
Are you tire , Amy ? ''
`` Yes , and disappoint as well .
I never would have undertake this journey if I have not think it would be full of novelty , romance , and charm adventure . ''
`` Well , we have have several adventure . ''
`` Bah !
lose one 's hat in the Rhine , get leave at a dirty little inn , and have our pocket pick , be not what I call adventure .
I wish there be brigand in Germany -- it need something of that sort to enliven it stupidity . ''
`` How can you call Germany stupid when you have a scene like this before you ? ''
say Helen , with a sigh of pleasure , a she look from the balcony which overhang the Rhine at the hotel of the `` Three Kings '' at Coblentz .
Ehrenbreitstein tower opposite , the broad river glitter below , and a midsummer moon lend it enchantment to the landscape .
As she speak , her companion half rise from the low chair where she lounge , and show the pretty , piquant face of a young girl .
She seem in a half melancholy , half petulant mood ; and trace of recent illness be visible in the languor of her movement and the pallor of her cheek .
`` Yes , it be lovely ; but I want adventure and romance of some sort to make it quite perfect .
I do n't care what , if something would only happen . ''
`` My dear , you be out of spirit and weary now , to-morrow you 'll be yourself again .
Do not be ungrateful to uncle or unjust to yourself .
Something pleasant will happen , I 've no doubt .
In fact , something have happen that you may make a little romance out of , perhaps , for lack of a more thrilling adventure . ''
`` What do you mean ? ''
and Amy 's listless face brighten .
`` Speak low ; there be balcony all about u , and we may be overheard , '' say Helen , draw nearer after an upward glance .
`` What be the beginning of a romance ? ''
whisper Amy , eagerly .
`` A pair of glove .
Just now , a I stand here , and you lay with your eye shut , these drop from the balcony overhead .
Now amuse yourself by weave a romance out of them and their owner . ''
Amy seize them , and step inside the window , examine them by the candle .
`` A gentleman 's glove , scent with violet !
Here 's a little hole fret by a ring on the third finger .
Bless me !
here be the initial , 'S .
P. , ' stamp on the inside , with a coat of arm below .
What a fop to get up his glove in this style !
They be exquisite , though .
Such a delicate color , so little soiled , and so prettily ornament !
Handsome hand wore these .
I 'd like to see the man . ''
Helen laugh at the girl 's interest , and be satisfy if any trifle amuse her ennui .
`` I will send them back by the kellner , and in that way we may discover their owner , '' she say .
But Amy arrest her on the way to the door .
`` I 've a good plan ; these waiter be so stupid you 'll get nothing out of them .
Here 's the hotel book send up for our name ; let u look among the day 's arrival and see who 'S .
P. ' be .
He come to-day , I 'm sure , for the man say the room above be just take , so we could not have them . ''
Opening the big book , Amy be soon intently pore over the long list of name , write in many hand and many language .
`` I 've get it !
Here he be -- oh , Nell , he 's a baron !
Is n't that charm ?
` Sigismund von Palsdorf , Dresden . '
We must see him , for I know he 's handsome , if he wear such distract glove . ''
`` You 'd better take them up yourself , then . ''
`` You know I ca n't do that ; but I shall ask the man a few question , just to get an idea what sort of person the baron be .
Then I shall change my mind and go down to dinner ; shall look well about me , and if the baron be agreeable I shall make uncle return the glove .
He will thank u , and I can say I 've know a real baron .
That will be so nice when we go home .
Now , do n't be duennaish and say I 'm silly , but let me do a I like , and come and dress . ''
Helen submit , and when the gong peal through the house , Major Erskine march into the great salle  manger , with a comely niece on each arm .
The long table be crowd , and they have to run the gauntlet of many eye a they make their way to the head of the upper table .
Before she touch her soup , Amy glance down the line of face opposite , and find none that answer the slight description elicit from the waiter , she lean a little forward to examine those on her own side of the table .
Some way down sit several gentleman , and a she bend to observe them , one do the same , and she receive an admire glance from a pair of fine black eye .
Somewhat abashed , she busy herself with her soup : but the fancy have take possession of her , and presently she whisper to Helen , -- `` Do you see any sign of the baron ? ''
`` On my left ; look at the hand . ''
Amy look and saw a white , shapely hand with an antique ring on the third finger .
Its owner 's face be avert , but a he converse with animation , the hand be in full play , now emphasize an opinion , now lift a glass , or more frequently pull at a blond beard which adorn the face of the unknown .
Amy shake her head decidedly .
`` I hate light men , and do n't think that be the baron , for the glove be a size too small for those hand .
Lean back and look some four or five seat low down on the right .
See what sort of person the dark man with the fine eye be . ''
Helen obeyed , but almost instantly bent to her plate again , smile in spite of herself .
`` That be an Englishman ; he star rudely , say ` By Jove ! '
and wear no jewelry or beard . ''
`` Now , I 'm disappointed .
Well , keep on the watch , and tell me if you make any discovery , for I will find the baron . ''
Being hungry , Amy devote herself to her dinner , till dessert be on the table .
She be languidly eating grape , while Helen talk with the major , when the word `` baron '' catch her ear .
The speaker sit at a table behind her , so that she could not see them without turn quite round , which be impossible ; but she listen eagerly to the following scrap of chat : -- `` Is the baron go on to-morrow ? ''
ask a gay voice in French .
`` Yes , he be bind for Baden-Baden .
The season be at it height , and he must make his game while the ball be roll , or it be all up with the open-handed Sigismund , '' answer a rough voice .
`` Wo n't his father pardon the last escapade ? ''
ask a third , with a laugh .
`` No , and he be right .
The duel be a bad affair , for the man almost die , and the baron barely manage to get out of the scrape through court influence .
When be the wedding to be ? ''
`` Never , Palsdorf say .
There be everything but love in the bargain , and he swear he 'll not agree to it .
I like that . ''
`` There be much nobleness in him , spite of his vagary .
He will sow his wild oat and make a grand man in time .
By the by , if we be go to the fortress , we must be off .
Give Sigismund the word ; he be din at the other table with Power , '' say the gay voice .
`` Take a look at the pretty English girl a you go by ; it will do your eye good , after the fat Frauleins we have see of late , '' add the rough one .
Three gentleman rise , and a they pass Amy steal a glance at them ; but see several pair of eye fix on herself , she turn away blushing , with the not unpleasant consciousness that `` the pretty English girl '' be herself .
Longing to see which Sigismund be , she venture to look after the young men , who pause behind the man with the blond beard , and also touch the dark-eyed gentleman on the shoulder .
All five go down the hall and stand talk near the door .
`` Uncle , I wish to go , '' say Amy , whose will be law to the amiable major .
Up he rise , and Amy add , a she take his arm , `` I 'm seize with a longing to go to Baden-Baden and see a little gambling .
You be not a wild young man , so you can be trust there . ''
`` I hope so .
Now you be a sensible little woman , and we 'll do our best to have a gay time .
Wait an instant till I get my hat . ''
While the major search for the missing article the girl go on , and come to the door , Amy try to open it .
The unwieldy foreign lock resist her effort , and she be just give it an impatient little shake , when a voice say behind her , -- `` Permit me , mademoiselle ; '' at the same moment a handsome hand turn the latch , the flash of a diamond shone before her , and the door open . ''
Merci , monsieur , '' she murmur , turn a she go out ; but Helen be close behind her , and no one else to be see except the massive major in the rear .
`` Did you see the baron ? ''
she whisper eagerly , a they go up-stairs .
`` No ; where be he ? ''
`` He open the door for me .
I know him by his hand and ring .
He be close to you . ''
`` I do not observe him , be busy gather up my dress .
I think the person be a waiter , and never look at him , '' say Helen , with provoking indifference .
`` How unfortunate !
Uncle , you be go to see the fortress ; we do n't care for it ; but I want you to take these glove and inquire for Baron Sigismund Palsdorf .
He will be there with a party of gentleman .
You can easily manage it , men be so free and easy .
Mind what he be like , and come home in time to tell me all about it . ''
Away go the major , and the cousin sit on the balcony enjoy the lovely night , admire the picturesque scene , and indulge in the flight of fancy all girl love , for Helen , in spite of her three-and-twenty year , be as romantic a Amy at eighteen .
It be past eleven when the major come , and the only greeting he receive be the breathless question , -- `` Did you find him ? ''
`` I find something much well than any baron , a courier .
I 've want one ever since we start ; for two young lady and their baggage be more than one man can do his duty by , Karl Hoffman have such excellent testimonial from person I know , that I do not hesitate to engage him , and he come to-morrow ; so henceforth I 've nothing to do but devote myself to you . ''
`` How very provoking !
Did you bring the glove back ? ''
ask Amy , still absorb in the baron .
The major toss them to her , and indulge in a hearty laugh at her girlish regret ; then bid them good-night , and go away to give order for an early start next morning .
Tired of talk , the girl lay down in the two little white bed always find in German hotel , and Amy be soon continue in sleep the romance she have begin awake .
She dream that the baron prove to be the owner of the fine eye ; that he woo and win her , and they be float down the river to the chime of wedding-bells .
At this rapturous climax she wake to find the air full of music , and to see Helen stand tall and white in the moonlight that stream in at the open window .
`` Hush , hide behind the curtain and listen ; it 's a serenade , '' whisper Helen , a Amy stole to her side .
Shrouded in the drapery , they lean and listen till the song end , then Amy peep ; a dark group stand below ; all be bareheaded , and now seem whisper together .
Presently a single voice rise , sing an exquisite little French canzonet , the refrain of which be a passionate repetition of the word '' Amie . ''
She think she recognize the voice , and the sound of her own name utter in such ardent tone make her heart beat and her color rise , for it seem to signify that the serenade be for them .
As the last melodious murmur cease , there come a stifle laugh from below , and something fell into the balcony .
Neither dare stir till the sound of depart foot reassure them ; then creep forward Amy draw in a lovely bouquet of myrtle , rose , and great German forget-me-not , tie with a white ribbon and address in a dashing hand to La belle Helne .
`` Upon my life , the romance have begin in earnest , '' laugh Helen , a she examine the flower .
`` You be serenade by some unknown nightingale , and I have flower toss up to me in the charming old style .
Of course it be the baron , Amy . ''
`` I hope so ; but whoever it be , they be regular troubadour , and I 'm delighted .
I know the glove will bring u fun of some kind .
Do you take one and I 'll take the other , and see who will find the baron first .
Is n't it odd that they know our name ? ''
`` Amy , the write on this card be very like that in the big book .
I may be bewitch by this mid-summer moonlight , but it really be very like it .
Come and see . ''
The two charm head bent over the card , look all the more charming for the dishevelled curl and braid that hung about them a the girl laugh and whisper together in the softly brilliant light that fill the room .
`` You be right ; it be the same .
The men who star so at dinner be gay student perhaps , and ready for any prank .
Do n't tell uncle , but let u see what will come of it .
I begin to enjoy myself heartily now -- do n't you ? ''
say Amy , lay her glove carefully away .
`` I enjoy myself before , but I think ' La belle Helne ' give an added relish to life , Amie , '' laugh Nell , put her flower in water ; and then both go back to their pillow , to dream delightfully till morning .
II KARL , THE COURIER `` Three day , at least , before we reach Baden .
How tiresome it be that uncle wo n't go faster ! ''
say Amy , a she tie on her hat next morning , wondering a she do so if the baron would take the same boat .
`` As adventure have begin , I feel assure that they will continue to cheer the way ; so resign yourself and be ready for anything , '' reply Helen , carefully arrange her bouquet in her travelling-basket .
A tap at the door , which stand half open , make both look up .
A tall , brown , gentlemanly man , in a gray suit , with a leathern bag slung over his shoulder , stand there , hat in hand , and meet Helen 's eye , bow respectfully , say in good English , but with a strong German accent , -- `` Ladies , the major desire me to tell you the carriage wait . ''
`` Why , who -- '' begin Amy , star with her blue eye full of wonder at the stranger .
He bow again , and say , simply , -- `` Karl Hoffman , at your service , mademoiselle . ''
`` The courier -- oh , yes !
I forget all about it .
Please take these thing . ''
Amy begin to hand him her miscellaneous collection of bag , book , shawl and cushion .
`` I 'd no idea courier be such decent creature , '' whisper Amy , a they follow him along the hall .
`` Do n't you remember the rapture Mrs. Mortimer use to have over their Italian courier , and her funny description of him ?
` Beautiful to behold , with a night of hair , eye full of an infinite tenderness , and a sumptuous cheek . ' ''
Both girl laugh , and Amy aver that Karl 's eye dance with merriment a he glance over his shoulder , a the silvery peal sound behind him .
`` Hush !
he understand English ; we must be careful , '' say Helen , and neither speak again till they reach the carriage .
Everything be ready , and a they drive away , the major , lean luxuriously back , exclaim , -- `` Now I begin to enjoy travelling , for I 'm no longer worry by the thought of luggage , time-tables , train , and the everlasting perplexity of thalers , kreutzers , and pfenniges .
This man be a treasure ; everything be do in the best manner , and his knowledge of matter be really amazing . ''
`` He 's a very gentlemanly-looking person , '' say Amy , eye a decidedly aristocratic foot through the front window of the carriage , for Karl sit up beside the driver .
`` He be a gentleman , my dear .
Many of these courier be well bear and educate , but , be poor , prefer this business to any other , a it give them variety , and often pleasant society .
I 've have a long talk with Hoffman , and find him an excellent and accomplish fellow .
He have lose his fortune , it seem , through no fault of his own , so be fond of a rove life , turn courier for a time , and we be fortunate to have secure him . ''
`` But one do n't know how to treat him , '' say Helen .
`` I do n't like to address him a a servant , and yet it 's not pleasant to order a gentleman about . ''
`` Oh , it will be easy enough a we go on together .
Just call him Hoffman , and behave a if you know nothing about his past .
He beg me not to mention it , but I think you 'd like the romance of the thing .
Only do n't either of you run away with him , a Ponsonby 's daughter do with her courier , who be n't a gentleman , by the way . ''
`` Not handsome enough , '' say Amy .
`` I do n't like blue eye and black hair .
His manner be nice , but he look like a gipsy , with his brown face and black beard : do n't he , Nell ? ''
`` Not at all .
Gipsies have n't that style of face ; they be thin , sharp , and cunning in feature a in nature .
Hoffman have large , well-moulded feature , and a mild , manly expression , which give one confidence in him . ''
`` He have a keen , wicked look in his blue eye , a you will see , Nell .
I mean mischievously , not malignantly wicked .
He like fun , I 'm sure , for he laugh about the ` sumptuous cheek ' till his own be red , though he dare not show it , and be as grave a an owl when we meet uncle , '' say Amy , smile at the recollection .
`` We shall go by boat to Biebrich , and then by rail to Heidelberg .
We shall get in late to-morrow night , but can rest a day , and then on to Baden .
Here we be ; now make yourselves easy , a I do , and let Karl take care of everything . ''
And put his hand in his pocket , the major stroll about the boat , while the courier make matter comfortable for the day .
So easily and well do he do his duty , that both girl enjoy watch him after he have establish them on the shady side of the boat , with camp-stools for their foot , cushion to lean on , book and bag lay commodiously at hand .
As they sail up the lovely Rhine they grow more and more enthusiastic in their admiration and curiosity , and find the meagre description of the guide-books very unsatisfactory , Amy beg her uncle to tell her all the legend of picturesque ruin , rock and river , a they pass .
`` Bless me , child , I know nothing ; but here 's Hoffman , a German born , who will tell you everything , I dare say .
Karl , what 's that old castle up there ?
The young lady want to know about it . ''
Leaning on the railing , Hoffman tell the story so well that he be keep explain and describe for an hour , and when he go away to order lunch , Amy declare it be as pleasant a read fairy tale to listen to his dramatic history and legend .
At lunch the major be charm to find his favorite wine and dish without any need of consult dictionary or phrase-book beforehand , or lose his temper in vain attempt to make himself understood .
On reach Biebrich , tire and hungry , at nightfall , everything be ready for them , and all go to bed praise Karl , the courier , though Amy , with unusual prudence , add , -- `` He be a new broom now ; let u wait a little before we judge . ''
All go well next day till nightfall , when a most untoward accident occur , and Helen 's adventure begin in earnest .
The three occupy a coup , and be weary with long sitting , Helen get out at one of the station where the train pause for ten minute .
A rosy sunset tempt her to the end of the platform , and there she find , what nearly all foreign railway station possess , a charming little garden .
Amy be very tired , rather cross , and passionately fond of flower , so when an old woman offer to pull a nosegay for `` the gracious lady , '' Helen gladly wait for it , hop to please the invalid .
Twice the whistle warn her , and at last she run back , but only in time to see the train move away , with her uncle gesticulate wildly to the guard , who shake his stupid German head , and refuse to see the dismayed young lady implore him to wait for her .
Just a the train be vanish from the station , a man leap from a second-class carriage at the risk of his neck , and hurry back to find Helen look pale and bewilder , a well she might , leave alone and moneyless at night in a strange town .
`` Mademoiselle , it be I ; rest easy ; we can soon go on ; a train pass in two hour , and we can telegraph to Heidelberg that they may not fear for you . ''
`` Oh , Hoffman , how kind of you to stop for me !
What should I have do without you , for uncle take care of all the money , and I have only my watch . ''
Helen 's usual self-possession rather fail her in the flurry of the moment , and she catch Karl 's arm with a feminine little gesture of confidence very pleasant to see .
Leading her to the waiting-room , he order supper , and put her into the care of the woman of the place , while he go to make inquiry and dispatch the telegram .
In half an hour he return , find Helen refresh and cheerful , though a trace of anxiety be still visible in her watchful eye .
`` All go excellently , mademoiselle .
I have send word to several post along the road that we be come by the night train , so that Monsieur le Major will rest tranquil till we meet .
It be best that I give you some money , lest such a mishap should again occur ; it be not likely so soon ; nevertheless , here be both gold and silver .
With this , one can make one 's way everywhere .
Now , if mademoiselle will permit me to advise , she will rest for an hour , a we must travel till dawn .
I will keep guard without and watch for the train . ''
He leave her , and have make herself comfortable on one of the sofa , she lay watch the tall shadow pas and repass door and window , a Karl march up and down the platform , with the tireless tramp of a sentinel on duty .
A pleasant sense of security stole over her , and with a smile at Amy 's enjoyment of the adventure when it be over , Helen fell asleep .
A far-off shriek half wake her , and start up , she turn to meet the courier come in to wake her .
Up thunder the train , every carriage apparently full of sleepy passenger , and the guard in a state of sullen wrath at some delay , the consequence of which would fall heavy on him .
From carriage to carriage hurried Karl and his charge , to be meet with everywhere by the cry , `` All full , '' in many language , and with every aspect of inhospitality .
One carriage only show two place ; the other seat be occupy by six student , who gallantly invite the lady to enter .
But Helen shrink back , say , -- `` Is there no other place ? ''
`` None , mademoiselle ; this , or remain till morning , '' say Karl .
`` Where will you go if I take this place ? ''
`` Among the luggage , -- anywhere ; it be nothing .
But we must decide at once . ''
`` Come with me ; I 'm afraid to be lock in here alone , '' say Helen , desperately .
`` Mademoiselle forget I be her courier . ''
`` I do not forget that you be a gentleman .
Pray come in ; my uncle will thank you . ''
`` I will , '' and with a sudden brightening of the eye , a grateful glance , and an air of redoubled respect , Hoffman follow her into the carriage .
They be off at once , and the thing be do before Helen have time to feel anything but the relief which the protection of his presence afford her .
The young gentleman star at the veiled lady and her grim escort , joke under their breath , and look wistfully at the suppressed cigar , but behave with exemplary politeness till sleep overpower them , and one after the other drop off asleep to dream of their respective Gretchens .
Helen could not sleep , and for hour sit study the unconscious face before her , the dim landscape fly past the window , or forget herself in revery .
Hoffman remain motionless and silent , except when she address him , wakeful also , and assiduous in make the long night as easy a possible .
It be past midnight , and Helen 's heavy eyelid be begin to droop , when suddenly there come an awful crash , a pang of mortal fear , then utter oblivion .
As her sens return she find herself lie in a painful position under what have be the roof of the car ; something heavy weigh down her low limb , and her dizzy brain rung with a wild uproar of shriek and groan , eager voice , the crash of wood and iron , and the shrill whistle of the engine , a it rush away for help .
Through the darkness she hear the pant a of some one struggle desperately , then a cry close by her , follow by a strong voice exclaiming , in an agony of suspense , -- `` My God , will no one come ! ''
`` Hoffman , be you there ? ''
cry Helen , grope in the gloom , with a thrill of joy at the sound of a familiar voice .
`` Thank heaven , you be safe .
Lie still .
I will save you .
Help be come .
Have no fear ! ''
pant the voice , with an undertone of fervent gratitude in it breathless accent .
`` What have happen ?
Where be the rest ? ''
`` We have be throw down an embankment .
The lad be go for help .
God only know what harm be do . ''
Karl 's voice die in a stifled groan , and Helen cry out in alarm , -- `` Where be you ?
You be hurt ? ''
`` Not much .
I keep the ruin from fall in to crush u .
Be quiet , they be come . ''
A shout answer the faint halloo he give a if to guide them to the spot , and a moment after , five of the student be swarm about the wreck , intent on save the three whose life be still in danger .
A lamp torn from some demolished carriage be hold through an opening , and Helen saw a sight that make her blood chill in her vein .
Across her foot , crush and bleed , lay the young of the student , and kneel close beside him be Hoffman , support by main strength a mass of timber , which otherwise would fall and crush them all .
His face be ghastly pale , his eye haggard with pain and suspense , and great drop stand upon his forehead .
But a she look , he smile with a cheery .
-- `` Bear up , dear lady , we shall soon be out of danger .
Now , lad , work with a will ; my strength be go fast . ''
They do work like hero , and even in her pain and peril , Helen admire the skill , energy , and courage of the young men , who , an hour ago , have seem to have no idea above pipe and beer .
Soon Hoffman be free , the poor senseless youth lift out , and then , as tenderly a if she be a child , they raise and set her down , faint but unhurt , in a wide meadow , already strew with sad token of the wreck .
Karl be take possession of as well a herself , force to rest a moment , drink a cordial draught from some one 's flask , and be praise , embrace , and enthusiastically bless by the impetuous youth .
`` Where be the boy who be hurt ?
Bring him to me .
I be strong now .
I want to help .
I have salt in my pocket , and I can bind up his wound , '' say Helen , soon herself again .
Karl and Helen soon bring back life and sense to the boy , and never have human face look so lovely a do Helen 's to the anxious comrade when she look up in the moonlight with a joyful smile , and softly whisper , -- `` He be alive . ''
For an hour terrible confusion reign , then the panic subside a little , and such of the carriage a be whole be make ready to carry away as many a possible ; the rest must wait till a return train could be send for them .
A struggle of course ensue , for every one wish to go on , and fear make many selfish .
The wounded , the woman and child , be take , as far a possible , and the laden train move away , leave many anxious watcher behind .
Helen have refuse to go , and have give her place to poor Conrad , thereby overwhelm his brother and comrade with gratitude .
Two go on with the wounded lad ; the rest remain , and chivalrously devote themselves to Helen a a body-guard .
The moon shone clearly , the wide field be mile from any hamlet , and a desolate silence succeed to the late uproar , a the band of waiter roam about , long for help and dawn .
`` Mademoiselle , you shiver ; the dew fall , and it be damp here ; we must have a fire ; '' and Karl be away to a neighboring hedge , intent on warm his delicate charge if he fell a forest to do it .
The student rush after him , and soon return in triumph to build a glorious fire , which draw all forlorn wanderer to it hospitable circle .
A motley assemblage ; but mutual danger and discomfort produce mutual sympathy and good will , and a general atmosphere of friendship pervade the party .
`` Where be the brave Hoffman ? ''
ask Wilhelm , the blond student , who , be in the Werther period of youth , be already madly in love with Helen , and sit at her foot catch cold in the most romantic manner .
`` Behold me !
The little one cry for hunger , so I ransack the ruin and bring away my spoil .
Eat , Kinder , eat and be patient . ''
As he speak Karl appear with an odd collection of basket , bag , and bottle , and with a fatherly air that win all the mother , he give the child whatever first appear , make them laugh in spite of weariness and hunger by the merry speech which accompany his gift .
`` You too need something .
Here be your own basket with the lunch I order you .
In a sad state of confusion , but still eatable .
See , it be not bad , '' and he deftly spread on a napkin before Helen cold chicken , sandwich , and fruit .
His care for the little one as well a for herself touch her and her eye fill , a she remember that she owe her life to him , and recall the sight of his face in the overturned car .
Her voice tremble a little a she thank him , and the moonlight betray her wet eye .
He fancy she be wear out with excitement and fatigue , and anxious to cheer her spirit , he whisper to Wilhelm and his mate , -- `` Sing , then , comrade , and while away this tedious night .
It be hard for all to wait so long , and the baby need a lullaby . ''
The young men laugh and sing a only German student can sing , make the night musical with blithe drinking song , tender love-lays , battle-hymns , and Volkslieder sweeter than any song across the water .
Every heart be cheer and warm by the magic of the music , the baby fell asleep , stranger grow friendly , fear change to courage , and the most forlorn felt the romance of that bivouac under the summer sky .
Dawn be redden the east when a welcome whistle break up the camp .
Every one hurry to the railway , but Helen pause to gather a handful of blue forget-me-not , say to Hoffman , who wait with her wrap on his arm , -- `` It have be a happy night , in spite of the danger and discomfort .
I shall not soon forget it ; and take these a a souvenir . ''
He smile , stand bare-headed in the chilly wind , for his hat be lose , his coat torn , hair dishevel , and one hand carelessly bind up in his handkerchief .
Helen saw these mark of the night 's labor and peril for the first time , and as soon a they be seat desire to see his hand .
`` It be nothing , -- a scratch , a mere scratch , I give you my word , mademoiselle , '' he begin , but Wilhelm unceremoniously remove the handkerchief , show a torn and bleed hand which must have be exquisitely painful .
Helen turn pale , and with a reproachful glance skilfully bind it up again , say , a she hand a silken scarf to Wilhelm , -- `` Make of that a sling , please , and put the poor hand in it .
Care must be take , or harm will come of it . ''
Hoffman submit in bashful silence , a if surprised and touch by the young lady 's interest .
She saw that , and add gratefully , -- `` I do not forget that you save my life , though you seem to have do so .
My uncle will thank you good than I can . ''
`` I already have my reward , mademoiselle , '' he return , with a respectful inclination and a look she could neither understand nor forget .
III AMY 'S ADVENTURE The excitement and suspense of the major and Amy can be imagine when news of the accident reach them .
Their gratitude and relief be intense when Helen appear next morning , with the faithful Hoffman still at his post , though no longer able to disguise the fact that he be suffer from his wound .
When the story have be tell , Karl be put under the surgeon 's care , and all remain at Heidelberg for several day to rest and recover .
On the afternoon of the last day the major and young lady drive off to the castle for a farewell view .
Helen begin to sketch the great stone lion 's head above the grand terrace , the major smoked and chat with a party of English artist whom he have meet , and Amy , with a little lad for a guide , explore the old castle to her heart 's content .
The sun set , and twilight begin to fall when Helen put up her pencil , and the major set off to find Amy , who have be appear and disappear in every nook and cranny of the half-ruined castle .
Nowhere could he find her , and no voice answer when he call .
The other visitor be go , and the place seem desert , except by themselves and the old man who show the ruin .
Becoming alarm l the girl have fall somewhere , or lose her way among the vault where the famous Tun lie , the major call out old Hans with his lantern , and search high and low .
Amy 's hat , full of flower and fern , be find in the Lady 's Walk , a the little terrace be call , but no other trace appear , and Helen hurry to and fro in great distress , fear all manner of danger .
Meanwhile Amy , have explore every other part of the castle , go to take another look at the Tun , the dwarf , and the vault .
Now little Anderl , her guide , have a great fear of ghost , and legion be say to haunt the ruin after nightfall , so when Amy ramble on deeper and deeper into the gloom the boy 's courage ebb away with every step ; yet he be ashamed to own his fear , see that she have none .
Amy want to see a certain cell , where a nun be say to have pin to death because she would not listen to the Margraf 's love .
The legend please the romantic girl , and forgetful of wan daylight , gather damp , and Anderl 's reluctant service , she run on , up step and down , delight with little arched door , rusty chain on the wall , glimpse of sky through shattered roof , and all manner of mysterious nook and corner .
Coming at last to a narrow cell , with a stone table , and heavy bolt on the old door , she felt sure this be poor Elfrida 's prison , and call Anderl to come on with his candle , for the boy have light one , for his own comfort rather than hers .
Her call be unanswered , and glance back , she saw the candle place on the ground , but no Anderl .
`` Little coward , he have run away , '' she say , laugh ; and have satisfy her curiosity , turn to retrace her step , -- no easy task to one ignorant of the way , for vault after vault open on both side , and no path be discernible .
In vain she try to recall some landmark , the gloom have deepen and nothing be clear .
On she hurry , but find no opening , and really frighten , stop at last , call the boy in a voice that wake a hundred echo .
But Anderl have flee home , think the lady would find her way back , and prefer to lose his kreutzers to see a ghost .
Poor Amy 's bewilderment and alarm increase with every moment 's delay , and hop to come out somewhere , she run on till a misstep jostle the candle from her hand and extinguish it .
Left in the dark , her courage desert her , and she scream desperately , like a lost child , and be fast get into a state of frantic terror , when the sound of an approaching step reassure her .
Holding her breath , she hear a quick tread draw nearer , a if guide by her cry , and , strain her eye , she catch the outline of a man 's figure in the gloom .
A sensation of intense joy rush over her , and she be about to spring forward , when she remember that a she could speak no German how could she explain her plight to the stranger , if he understand neither French nor English ?
Fear take possession of her at the thought of meet some rough peasant , or some rollicking student , to whom she could make no intelligible appeal or explanation .
Crouching close against the wall , she stand mute till the figure be very near .
She be in the shadow of an angle , and the man pause , a if look for the person who call for help .
`` Who be lose here ? ''
say a clear voice , in German .
Amy shrunk closer to the wall , fear to speak , for the voice be that of a young man , and a low laugh follow the word , a if the speaker find the situation amusing .
`` Mortal , ghost or devil , I 'll find it , '' exclaim the voice , and step forward , a hand grope for and find her .
`` Lottchen , be it thou ?
Little rogue , thou shalt pay dearly for lead me such a chase . ''
As he speak he draw the girl toward him , but with a faint cry , a vain effort to escape , Amy 's terror reach it climax , and spent with fatigue and excitement , she lose consciousness .
`` Who the deuce be it , then ?
Lottchen never faint on a frolic .
Some poor little girl lose in earnest .
I must get her out of this gloomy place at once , and find her party afterward . ''
Lifting the slight figure in his arm , the young man hurry on , and soon come out through a shattered gateway into the shrubbery which surround the base of the castle .
Laying her on the grass , he gently chafe her hand , eye the pale , pretty face meantime with the utmost solicitude .
At his first glimpse of it he have start , smile and make a gesture of pleasure and surprise , then give himself entirely to the task of recover the poor girl whom he have frighten out of her sens .
Very soon she look up with dizzy eye , and clasp her hand imploringly , cry , in English , like a bewildered child , -- `` I be lose !
Oh , take me to my uncle . ''
`` I will , the moment you can walk .
Upon my soul , I mean to help you when I follow ; but a you do not answer , I fancy it be Lottchen , the keeper 's little girl .
Pardon the fright I 've cause you , and let me take you to your friend . ''
The true English accent of the word , and the hearty tone of sincerity in the apology , reassure Amy at once , and , rise , she say , with a faint smile and a petulant tone , -- `` I be very silly , but my guide run away , my candle go out , I lose the path , and can speak no German ; so I be afraid to answer you at first ; and then I lose my wit altogether , for it 's rather startling to be clutch in the dark , sir . ''
`` Indeed it be .
I be very thoughtless , but now let me atone for it .
Where be your uncle , Miss Erskine ? ''
ask the stranger , with respectful earnestness .
`` You know my name ? ''
cry Amy in her impulsive way .
`` I have that happiness , '' be the answer , with a smile .
`` But I do n't know you , sir ; '' and she peer at him , try to see his face in the darkness , for the copse be thick , and twilight have come on rapidly .
`` Not yet ; I live in hope .
Shall we go ?
Your uncle will be uneasy . ''
`` Where be we ? ''
ask Amy , glad to move on , for the interview be become too personal even for her , and the stranger 's manner flutter her , though she enjoy the romance of the adventure immensely .
`` We be in the park which surround the castle .
You be near the entrance to it from the vault when you faint . ''
`` I wish I have keep on a little long , and not disgrace myself by such a panic . ''
`` Nay , that be a cruel wish , for then I should have lose the happiness of help you . ''
They have be walk side by side , but be force to pause on reach a broken flight of step , for Amy could not see the way before her .
`` Let me lead you ; it be steep and dark , but good than go a long way round through the dew , '' he say , offer his hand .
`` Must we return by these dreadful vault ? ''
falter Amy , shrink back .
`` It be the shortest and safe route , I assure you . ''
`` Are you sure you know the way ? ''
`` Quite sure .
I have live here by the week together .
Do you fear to trust me ? ''
`` No ; but it be so dark , and everything be so strange to me .
Can we get down safely ?
I see nothing but a black pit . ''
And Amy still hesitate , with an odd mixture of fear and coquetry .
`` I bring you up in safety ; shall I take you down again ? ''
ask the stranger , with a smile flickering over his face .
Amy felt rather than saw it , and assume an air of dignified displeasure , motion him to proceed , which he do for three step ; then Amy slip , and gladly catch at the arm extend to save her .
Without a word he take her hand and lead her back through the labyrinth she have thread in her bewilderment .
A dim light fill the place , but with unerring step her guide go on till they emerge into the courtyard .
Major Erskine 's voice be audible , give direction to the keeper , and Helen 's figure visible a she grope among the shadow of the ruined chapel for her cousin .
`` There be my friend .
Now I be safe .
Come and let them thank you , '' cry Amy , in her frank , childlike warmth of manner .
`` I want no thanks -- forgive me -- adieu , '' and hastily kiss the little hand that have lie so confidingly in his , the stranger be go .
Amy rush at once to Helen , and when the lose lamb have be welcome , chidden , and exult over , they drive home , listen to the very brief account which Amy give of her adventure .
`` Naughty little gad-about , how could you go and terrify me so , wander in vault with mysterious stranger , like the Countess of Rudolstadt .
You be a wet and dirty a if you have be dig a well , yet you look a if you like it , '' say Helen , a she lead Amy into their room at the hotel .
`` I do , '' be the decided answer , a the girl pull a handkerchief off her head , and begin to examine the corner of it .
Suddenly she utter a cry and fly to the light , exclaiming , -- `` Nell , Nell , look here !
The same letter , 'S .
P. , ' the same coat of arm , the same perfume -- it be the baron ! ''
`` What ?
who ?
be you out of your mind ? ''
say Helen , examine the large , fine cambric handkerchief , with it delicately stamp initial under the stag 's head , and three star on a heart-shaped shield .
`` Where do you get it ? ''
she add , a she inhale the soft odor of violet shake from it fold .
Amy blush and answer shyly , `` I do n't tell you all that happen before uncle , but now I will .
My hat be leave behind , and when I recover my wit after my fright , I find this tie over my head .
Oh , Nell , it be very charm there in that romantic old park , and go through the vault with him , and have my hand kiss at parting .
No one ever do that before , and I like it . ''
Amy glance at her hand a she speak , and stand staring a if struck dumb , for there on her forefinger shone a ring she have never see before .
`` Look !
look !
mine be go , and this in it place !
Oh , Nell , what shall I do ? ''
she say , look half frighten , half pleased .
Helen examine the ring and shake her head , for it be far more valuable than the little pearl one which it replace .
Two tiny hand of fine gold be link together about a diamond of great brilliancy ; and on the inside appear again the initial , `` S.P. '' `` How do it happen ? ''
she ask , rather sternly .
`` Upon my word , I do n't know , unless he put it on while I be stupidly fainting .
Rude man , to take advantage of me so .
But , Nell , it be splendid , and what shall I do about it ? ''
`` Tell uncle , find out the man and send back his thing .
It really be absurd , the manner in which German boy behave ; '' and Helen frown , though she be strongly tempt to laugh at the whole thing .
`` He be neither a German nor a boy , but an English gentleman , I 'm sure , '' begin Amy , rather offend .
`` But 'S .
P. ' be a baron , you know , unless there be two Richmonds in the field , '' break in Helen .
`` I forget that ; never mind , it deepen the mystery ; and after this performance , I 'm prepared for any enormity .
It 's my fate ; I submit . ''
say Amy , tragically , a she wave her hand to and fro , please with the flash of the ring .
`` Amy , I think on the whole I wo n't speak to uncle .
He be quick to take offence , especially where we be concern .
He do n't understand foreign way , and may get into trouble .
We will manage it quietly ourselves . ''
`` How , Nell ? ''
`` Karl be discreet ; we will merely say we find these thing and wish to discover the owner .
He may know this 'S .
P. ' and , have learn his address , we can send them back .
The man will understand ; and a we leave to-morrow , we shall be out of the way before he can play any new prank . ''
`` Have in Karl at once , for if I wear this lovely thing long I shall not be able to let it go at all .
How dare the creature take such a liberty ! ''
and Amy pull off the ring with an expression of great scorn .
`` Come into the salon and see what Karl say to the matter .
Let me speak , or you will say too much .
One must be prudent before -- '' She be go to say `` servant , '' but check herself , and substitute `` stranger , '' remember gratefully how much she owe this man .
Hoffman come , look pale , and with his hand in a sling , but be a gravely devote a ever , and listen to Helen 's brief story with serious attention .
`` I will inquire , mademoiselle , and let you know at once .
It be easy to find person if one have a clue .
May I see the handkerchief ? ''
Helen show it .
He glance at the initial , and lay it down with a slight smile .
`` The coat-of-arms be English , mademoiselle . ''
`` Are you sure ? ''
`` Quite so ; I understand heraldry . ''
`` But the initial stand for Sigismund Palsdorf , and we know he be a German baron , '' break in Amy , forget prudence in eagerness .
`` If mademoiselle know the name and title of this gentleman it will not be hard to find him . ''
`` We only fancy it be the same because of the initial .
I dare say it be a mistake , and the man be English .
Inquire quietly , Hoffman , if you please , a this ring be of value , and I wish to restore it to it owner , '' say Helen , rather sharply .
`` I shall do so , mademoiselle , '' and with his gentlemanly bow , the courier leave the room .
`` Bless me , what 's that ? ''
cry Amy , a moment afterward , a a ring laugh echoed through the corridor , -- a laugh so full of hearty and infectious merriment that both girl smile involuntarily , and Amy peep out to see who the blithe personage might be .
An old gentleman be enter his room near by , and Karl be just about to descend the stair .
Both look back at the girlish face peep at them , but both be quite grave , and the peal of laughter remain a mystery , like all the rest of it .
Late in the evening Hoffman return to report that a party of young Englishmen have visit the castle that afternoon , and have leave by the evening train .
One of them have be name Samuel Peters , and he , doubtless , be the owner of the ring .
A humorous expression lurk in the courier eye a he make his report , and heard Amy exclaim , in a tone of disgust and comical despair , -- `` Samuel Peters !
That spoil all the romance and dim the beauty of the diamond .
To think that a Peters should be the hero to whom I owe my safety , and a Samuel should leave me this token of regard ! ''
`` Hush , Amy , '' whisper Helen .
`` Thanks , Hoffman ; we must wait now for chance to help u . ''
IV A POLISH EXILE `` Room for one here , sir , '' say the guard , a the train stop at Carlsruhe next day , on it way from Heidelberg to Baden .
The major put down his guide-book , Amy open her eye , and Helen remove her shawl from the opposite seat , a a young man , wrap in a cloak , with a green shade over his eye , and a general air of feebleness , get in and sink back with a sigh of weariness or pain .
Evidently an invalid , for his face be thin and pale , his dark hair crop short , and the ungloved hand attenuate and delicate a a woman 's .
A sidelong glance from under the deep shade seem to satisfy him regard his neighbor , and draw his cloak about him with a slight shiver , he lean into the corner and seem to forget that he be not alone .
Helen and Amy exchange glance of compassionate interest , for woman always pity invalid , especially if young , comely and of the opposite sex .
The major take one look , shrug his shoulder , and return to his book .
Presently a hollow cough give Helen a pretext for discover the nationality of the newcomer .
`` Do the open window inconvenience you , sir ? ''
she ask , in English .
No answer ; the question evidently unintelligible .
She repeat it in French , lightly touch his cloak to arrest his attention .
Instantly a smile broke over the handsome mouth , and in the purest French he assure her that the fresh air be most agreeable , and beg pardon for annoy them with his troublesome cough .
`` Not an invalid , I hope , sir ? ''
say the major , in his bluff yet kindly voice .
`` They tell me I can have no other fate ; that my malady be fatal ; but I still hope and fight for my life ; it be all I have to give my country now . ''
A stifled sigh and a sad emphasis on the last word rouse the sympathy of the girl , the interest of the major .
He take another survey , and say , with a tone of satisfaction , a he mark the martial carriage of the young man , and catch a fiery glance of the half-hidden eye , -- `` You be a soldier , sir ? ''
`` I be ; I be nothing now but an exile , for Poland be in chain . ''
The word `` Poland '' and `` exile '' bring up all the pathetic story of that unhappy country which the three listener have ever hear , and win their interest at once .
`` You be in the late revolution , perhaps ? ''
ask the major , give the unhappy outbreak the most respectful name he could use .
`` From begin to end . ''
`` Oh , tell u about it ; we felt much sympathy for you , and long to have you win , '' cry Amy , with such genuine interest and pity in her tone , it be impossible to resist .
Pressing both hand upon his breast , the young man bent low , with a flush of feel on his pale cheek , and answer eagerly , -- `` Ah , you be kind ; it be balm to my sore heart to hear word like these .
I thank you , and tell you what you will .
It be but little that I do , yet I give my life , and die a long death , instead of a quick , brave one with my comrade . ''
`` You be young to have bear a part in a revolution , sir , '' say the major , who prick up his ear like an old war-horse at the sound of battle .
`` My friend and myself leave the University at Varsovie , a volunteer ; we do our part , and now all lie in their graf but three . ''
`` You be wound , it seem ? ''
`` Many time .
Exposure , privation , and sorrow will finish what the Russian bullet begin .
But it be well .
I have no wish to see my country enslave , and I can no longer help her . ''
`` Let u hope that a happy future wait for you both .
Poland love liberty too well , and have suffer too much for it , to be keep long in captivity . ''
Helen speak warmly , and the young man listen with a brighten face .
`` It be a kind prophecy ; I accept it , and take courage .
God know I need it , '' he add , low to himself .
`` Are you bound for Italy ? ''
say the major , in a most un-English fit of curiosity .
`` For Geneva first , Italy later , unless Montreaux be mild enough for me to winter in .
I go to satisfy my friend , but doubt if it avail . ''
`` Where be Montreaux ? ''
ask Amy .
`` Near Clarens , where Rousseau write his Heloise , and Vevay , where so many English go to enjoy Chillon .
The climate be divine for unfortunate like myself , and life more cheap there than in Italy . ''
Here the train stop again , and Hoffman come to ask if the lady desire anything .
At the sound of his voice the young Pole start , look up , and exclaim , with the vivacity of a foreigner , in German , -- `` By my life , it be Karl !
Behold me , old friend , and satisfy me that it be thyself by a handshake . ''
`` Casimer !
What wind blow thee hither , my boy , in such sad plight ? ''
replied Hoffman , grasp the slender hand outstretched to him .
`` I fly from an enemy for the first time in my life , and , like all coward , shall be conquer in the end .
I write thee I be well , but the wound in the breast reopen , and nothing but a miracle will save me .
I go to Switzerland ; and thou ? ''
`` Where my master command .
I serve this gentleman , now . ''
`` Hard change for both , but with health thou art king of circumstance , while I ?
-- Ah well , the good God know best .
Karl , go thou and buy me two of those pretty basket of grape ; I will please myself by give them to these pity angel .
Speak they German ? ''
`` One , the elder ; but they understand not this rattle of ours . ''
Karl disappear , and Helen , who have understand the rapid dialogue , try to seem as unconscious a Amy .
`` Say a friendly word to me at time ; I be so homesick and faint-hearted , my Hoffman .
Thanks ; they be almost worthy the lip that shall taste them . ''
Taking the two little osier basket , laden with yellow and purple cluster , Casimer offer them , with a charming mixture of timidity and grace , to the girl , say , like a grateful boy , -- `` You give me kind word and good hope ; permit that I thank you in this poor way . ''
`` I drink success to Poland . ''
cry Helen , lift a great , juicy grape to her lip , like a little purple goblet , hop to hide her confusion under a playful air .
The grape go round , and health be drunk with much merriment , for in travel on the Continent it be impossible for the gruff , prim person to long resist the frank courtesy and vivacious chat of foreigner .
The major be unusually social and inquisitive , and while the soldier fight their battle over again the girl listen and take note , with feminine wit on the alert to catch any personal revelation which might fall from the interesting stranger .
The wrong and suffering of Poland be discuss so eloquently that both young lady be move to declare the most undying hatred of Russia , Prussia , and Austria , the most intense sympathy for `` poor Pologne . ''
All day they travel together , and a Baden-Baden approach , they naturally fell to talk of the gay place .
`` Uncle , I must try my fortune once .
I 've set my heart upon it , and so have Nell .
We want to know how gambler feel , and to taste the fascination of the game which draw people here from all part of Europe , '' say Amy , in her half-pleading , half-imperious way .
`` You may risk one napoleon each , a I foolishly promise you should , when I little think you would ever have an opportunity to remind me of my promise .
It 's not an amusement for respectable Englishwomen , or men either .
You will agree with me there , monsieur ? ''
and the major glance at the Pole , who reply , with his peculiar smile : -- `` Surely , yes .
It be great folly and waste of time and money ; yet I have know one man who find some good in it , or , rather , bring good out of it .
I have a friend who have a mania for give .
His own fortune be spend in help needy student at the University , and poor professor .
This displease his father , and he refuse supply , except enough for his simple personal want .
Sigismund chafe at this , and be skilful at all game , a a gentleman may be in the way of amusement , he resolve to play with those whose money be waste on frivolity , and give his winning to his band of pauper . ''
`` How do it succeed , this odd fancy ? ''
ask Helen , with an interested face , while Amy pinch her arm at the word `` Sigismund . ''
`` Excellently .
My friend win often , and a his purpose become know it cause no unkind feeling , this unusual success , for fortune seem to favor his kind object . ''
`` Wrong , nevertheless , to do evil that good may come of it , '' say the major , morally .
`` It may be so : but it be not for me to censure my benefactor .
He have do much for my countryman and myself , and be so truly noble I can see no fault in him . ''
`` What an odd name !
Sigismund be German , be it not ? ''
ask Amy , in the most artless tone of interest .
`` Yes , mademoiselle , and Palsdorf be a true German ; much courage , strength and intellect , with the gayety and simplicity of a boy .
He hat slavery of all kind , and will be free at all cost .
He be a good son , but his father be tyrannical , and ask too much .
Sigismund will not submit to sell himself , and so be in disgrace for a time . ''
`` Palsdorf !
-- be not that the name of the count or baron we hear them talk of at Coblentz ? ''
say Helen to Amy , with a well-feigned air of uncertainty .
`` Yes ; I hear something of a duel and a broken betrothal , I think .
The people seem to consider the baron a wild young man , so it could not have be your friend , sir , '' be Amy 's demure reply , glance at Helen with mirthful eye , a if to say , `` How our baron haunt u ! ''
`` It be the same , doubtless .
Many consider him wild , because he be original , and dare act for himself .
As it be well know , I may tell you the truth of the duel and the betrothal , if you care to hear a little romance . ''
Casimer look eager to defend his friend , and a the girl be long to hear the romance , permission be give .
`` In Germany , you know , the young people be often betroth in childhood by the parent , and sometimes never meet till they be grow .
Usually all go well ; but not always , for love can not come at command .
Sigismund be plight , when a boy of fifteen , to his young cousin , and then send away to the University till of age .
On returning , he be to travel a year or two , and then marry .
He gladly go away , and with increase disquiet saw the time draw near when he must keep his troth-plight . ''
`` Hum !
love some one else .
Very unfortunate to be sure , '' say the major with a sigh .
`` Not so ; he only love his liberty , and pretty Minna be less dear than a life of perfect freedom .
He go back at the appointed time , saw his cousin , try to do his duty and love her ; find it impossible , and , discover that Minna love another , vow he would never make her unhappiness as well a his own .
The old baron storm , but the young one be firm , and would not listen to a marriage without love ; but plead for Minna , wish his rival success , and set out again on his travel . ''
`` And the duel ? ''
ask the major , who take less interest in love than war .
`` That be as characteristic a the other act .
A son of one high in office at Berlin circulate false report of the cause of Palsdorf 's refusal of the alliance -- report injurious to Minna .
Sigismund settle the matter in the most effectual manner , by challenge and wound the man .
But for court influence it would have go hardly with my friend .
The storm , however , have blow over ; Minna will be happy with her lover , and Sigismund with his liberty , till he tire of it . ''
`` Is he handsome , this hero of yours ? ''
say Amy , feel the ring under her glove , for in spite of Helen 's advice , she insist on wear it , that it might be at hand to return at any moment , should chance again bring the baron in their way .
`` A true German of the old type ; blond and blue-eyed , tall and strong .
My hero in good truth -- brave and loyal , tender and true , '' be the enthusiastic answer .
`` I hate fair men , '' pout Amy , under her breath , a the major ask some question about hotel .
`` Take a new hero , then ; nothing can be more romantic than that , '' whisper Helen , glance at the pale , dark-haired figure wrap in the military cloak opposite .
`` I will , and leave the baron to you ; '' say Amy , with a stifled laugh .
`` Hush !
Here be Baden and Karl , '' reply Helen , thankful for the interruption .
All be bustle in a moment , and take leave of them with an air of reluctance , the Pole walk away , leave Amy look after him wistfully , quite unconscious that she stand in everybody 's way , and that her uncle be beckon impatiently from the carriage door .
`` Poor boy !
I wish he have some one to take care of him . ''
she sigh , half aloud .
`` Mademoiselle , the major wait ; '' and Karl come up , hat in hand , just in time to hear her and glance after Casimer , with an odd expression .
V LUDMILLA `` I wonder what that young man 's name be .
Did he mention it , Helen ? ''
say the major , pause in his march up and down the room , a if the question be suggest by the sight of the little basket , which the girl have keep .
`` No , uncle ; but you can easily ask Hoffman , '' reply Helen .
`` By the way , Karl , who be the Polish gentleman who come on with u ? ''
ask the major a moment afterward , a the courier come in with newspaper .
`` Casimer Teblinski , sir . ''
`` A baron ? ''
ask Amy , who be decidedly a young lady of one idea just then .
`` No , mademoiselle , but of a noble family , a the ` ski ' denotes , for that be to Polish and Russian name what ` von ' be to German and ` de ' to French . ''
`` I be rather interested in him .
Where do you pick him up , Hoffman ? ''
say the major .
`` In Paris , where he be with fellow-exiles . ''
`` He be what he seem , be he ?
-- no impostor , or anything of that sort ?
One be often deceive , you know . ''
`` On my honor , sir , he be a gentleman , and as brave a he be accomplish and excellent . ''
`` Will he die ? ''
ask Amy , pathetically .
`` With care he would recover , I think ; but there be no one to nurse him , so the poor lad must take his chance and trust in heaven for help . ''
`` How sad !
I wish we be go his way , so that we might do something for him -- at least give him the society of his friend . ''
Helen glance at Hoffman , feel that if he be not already engage by them , he would devote himself to the invalid without any thought of payment .
`` Perhaps we be .
You want to see the Lake of Geneva , Chillon , and that neighborhood .
Why not go now , instead of later ? ''
`` Will you , uncle ?
That 's capital !
We need say nothing , but go on and help the poor boy , if we can . ''
Helen speak like a matron of forty , and look a full of maternal kindness a if the Pole be not out of his teen .
The courier bow , the major laugh behind his paper , and Amy give a sentimental sigh to the memory of the baron , in whom her interest be fail .
They only catch a glimpse of the Pole that even at the Kursaal , but next morning they meet , and he be invite to join their party for a little expedition .
The major be in fine spirit , and Helen assume her maternal air toward both invalid , for the sound of that hollow cough always bring a shadow over her face , recall the brother she have lose .
Amy be particularly merry and charming , and keep the whole party laughing at her comical effort to learn Polish and teach English a they drive up the mountainside to the old Schloss .
`` I 'm not equal to mount all those step for a view I 've see a dozen time ; but pray take care of the child , Nell , or she 'll get lose again , a at Heidelberg , '' say the major , when they have roam about the low part of the place ; for a cool seat in the courtyard and a glass of beer be more tempting than turret and prospect to the stout gentleman .
`` She shall not be lose ; I be her body-guard .
It be steep -- permit that I lead you , mademoiselle ; '' Casimer offer his hand to Amy , and they begin their winding way .
As she take the hand , the girl blush and half smile , remember the vault and the baron .
`` I like this good , '' she say to herself , a they climb step by step , often pause to rest in the embrasure of the loophole , where the sun glance in , the balmy wind blew , and vine peep from without , make a pretty picture of the girl , a she sit with rosy color on her usually pale cheek , brown curl flutter about her forehead , laugh lip , and bright eye full of pleasant change .
Leaning opposite in the narrow stairway , Casimer have time to study the little tableau in many light , and in spite of the dark glass , to convey warm glance of admiration , of which , however , the young coquette seem utterly unconscious .
Helen come leisurely after , and Hoffman follow with a telescope , wish , a he go , that his countrywoman possess such dainty foot a those go on before him , for which masculine iniquity he will be pardon by all who have see the foot of a German Fraulein .
It be worth the long ascent , that wide-spread landscape basking in the August glow .
Sitting on a fallen block of stone , while Casimer hold a sun-umbrella over her , Amy have rapture at her ease ; while Helen sketch and ask question of Hoffman , who stand beside her , watch her progress with interest .
Once when , after repeat effort to catch a curious effect of light and shade , she utter an impatient little exclamation , Karl make a gesture a if to take the pencil and show her , but seem to recollect himself and draw back with a hasty `` Pardon , mademoiselle . ''
Helen glance up and saw the expression of his face , which plainly betray that for a moment the gentleman have forget he be a courier .
She be glad of it , for it be a daily trial to her to order this man about ; and follow the womanly impulse , she smile and offer the pencil , say simply , -- `` I felt sure you understand it ; please show me . ''
He do so , and a few masterly stroke give the sketch what it need .
As he bend near her to do this Helen steal a glance at the grave , dark face , and suddenly a disturbed look dawn in the eye fix on the glossy black lock push off the courier 's forehead , for he have remove his hat when she speak to him .
He seem to feel that something be amiss , shoot a quick glance at her , return the pencil and rise erect , with an almost defiant air , yet something of shame in his eye , a his lip move a if to speak impetuously .
But not a word do he utter , for Helen touch her forehead significantly , and say in a low tone , -- `` I be an artist ; let me recommend Vandyke brown , which be not affect by heat . ''
Hoffman look over his shoulder at the other pair , but Amy be make an ivy wreath for her hat , and the Pole pulling spray for the absorbing work .
Speaking rapidly , Karl say , with a peculiar blending of merriment , humility , and anxiety in his tone , -- `` Mademoiselle , you be quick to discover my disguise ; will you also be kind in concealing ?
I have enemy as well a friend , whom I desire to escape : I would earn my bread unknown ; Monsieur le Major keep my foolish secret ; may I hope for equal goodness from yourself ? ''
`` You may , I do not forget that I owe my life to you , nor that you be a gentleman .
Trust me , I never will betray you . ''
`` Thanks , thanks !
there will come a time when I may confess the truth and be myself , but not yet , '' and his regretful tone be emphasize by an impatient gesture , a if concealment be irksome .
`` Nell , come down to lunch ; uncle be signal a if he 'd go mad .
No , monsieur , it be quite impossible ; you can not reach the harebell without risk too much ; come away and forget that I want them . ''
Amy lead the way , and all go down more quietly than they come up , especially Helen and Hoffman .
An excellent lunch wait on one of the table in front of the old gateway , and have do justice to it , the major make himself comfortable with a cigar , bid the girl keep near , for they must be off in half an hour .
Hoffman go to see to the horse , Casimer stroll away with him , and the young lady go to gather wild flower at the foot of the tower .
`` Not a harebell here ; be n't it provoke , when they grow in tuft up there , where one ca n't reach them .
Mercy , what 's that ?
Run , Nell , the old wall be come down ! ''
Both have be grub in a damp nook , where fern and moss grow luxuriantly ; the fall of a bit of stone and a rend sound above make them fly back to the path and look up .
Amy cover her eye , and Helen grow pale , for part way down the crumble tower , cling like a bird to the thick ivy stem , hung Casimer , coolly gather harebell from the cleft of the wall .
`` Hush ; do n't cry out or speak ; it may startle him .
Crazy boy !
Let u see what he will do , '' whisper Helen .
`` He ca n't go back , the vine be so torn and weak ; and how will he get down the low wall ?
for you see the ivy grow up from that ledge , and there be nothing below .
How could he do it ?
I be only joke when I lament that there be no knight now , ready to leap into a lion 's den for a lady 's glove , '' return Amy , half angry .
In breathless silence they watch the climber till his cap be full of flower , and take it between his teeth , he rapidly swing down to the wide ledge , from which there appear to be no way of escape but a reckless leap of many foot on to the turf below .
The girl stand in the shadow of an old gateway , unperceived , and wait anxiously what should follow .
Lightly fold and fasten the cap together , he drop it down , and , lean forward , try to catch the top of a young birch rustle close by the wall .
Twice he miss it ; the first time he frown , but the second he utter an emphatic , `` Deuce take it ! ''
Helen and Amy look at each other with a mutual smile and exclamation , -- `` He know some English , then ! ''
There be time for no more -- a violent rustle , a boyish laugh , and down swing the slender tree , with the young man cling to the top .
As he land safely , Helen cry , `` Bravo ! ''
and Amy rush out , exclaim reproachfully , yet admiringly , -- `` How could you do it and frighten u so ?
I shall never express a wish before you again , for if I want the moon you 'd rashly try to get it , I know . '' ''
Certainement , mademoiselle , '' be the smile reply .
Casimer present the flower , a if the exploit be a mere trifle .
`` Now I shall go and press them at once in uncle 's guide-book .
Come and help me , else you will be in mischief again . ''
And Amy lead the way to the major with her flower and their giver .
Helen roam into one of the ruined court for a last look at a fountain which please her eye .
A sort of cloister ran round the court , open on both side , and stand in one of these arch nook , she saw Hoffman and a young girl talk animatedly .
The girl be pretty , well dress , and seem refuse something for which the other plead eagerly .
His arm be about her , and she lean affectionately upon him , with a white hand now and then caress his face , which be full of sparkle and vivacity now .
They seem about to part a Helen look , for the maiden standing on tiptoe , laughingly offer her bloom cheek , and a Karl kiss it warmly , he say in German , so audibly Helen hear every word , -- `` Farewell , my Ludmilla .
Keep silent and I shall soon be with you .
Embrace the little one , and do not let him forget me . ''
Both leave the place a they speak , each go a different way , and Helen slowly return to her party , say to herself in a troubled tone , -- '' ` Ludmilla ' and ` the little one ' be his wife and child , doubtless .
I wonder if uncle know that . ''
When Hoffman next appear she could not resist look at him ; but the accustomed gravity be resume , and nothing remain of the glow and brightness he have wear when with Ludmilla in the cloister .
VI CHATEAU DE LA TOUR Helen look serious and Amy indignant when their uncle join them , ready to set out by the afternoon train , all have din and rest after the morning 's excursion .
`` Well , little girl , what 's the matter now ? ''
he ask , paternally , for the excellent man adore his niece .
`` Helen say it 's not best to go on with the Pole , and be perfectly nonsensical , uncle , '' begin Amy , petulantly , and not very coherently .
`` Better be silly now than sorry by and by .
I only suggest that , be interesting , and Amy romantic , she might find this young man too charming , if we see too much of him , '' say Helen .
`` Bless my soul , what an idea ! ''
cry the major .
`` Why , Nell , he 's an invalid , a Catholic , and a foreigner , any one of which objection be enough to settle that matter .
Little Amy be n't so foolish a to be in danger of lose her heart to a person so entirely out of the question a this poor lad , be she ? ''
`` Of course not .
You do me justice , uncle .
Nell think she may pity and pet any one she like because she be five year old than I , and entirely forgets that she be a great deal more attractive than a feeble thing like me .
I should as soon think of lose my heart to Hoffman a to the Pole , even if he be n't what he be .
One may surely be kind to a die man , without be accuse of coquetry ; '' and Amy sob in the most heart-rending manner .
Helen comfort her by withdraw all objection , and promise to leave the matter in the major 's hand .
But she shake her head privately when she saw the ill-disguised eagerness with which her cousin glance up and down the platform after they be in the train , and she whisper to her uncle , unobserved , -- `` Leave future meeting to chance , and do n't ask the Pole in , if you can help it . ''
`` Nonsense , my dear .
You be as particular a your aunt .
The lad amuse me , and you ca n't deny you like to nurse sick hero , '' be all the answer she get , a the major , with true masculine perversity , put his head out of the window and hail Casimer a he be pass with a bow .
`` Here , Teblinski , my good fellow , do n't desert u .
We 've always a spare seat for you , if you have n't pleasant quarter . ''
With a flush of pleasure the young man come up , but hesitate to accept the invitation till Helen second it with a smile of welcome .
Amy be in an injured mood , and , shroud in a great blue veil , pensively recline in her corner a if indifferent to everything about her .
But soon the cloud pass , and she emerge in a radiant state of good humor , which last unbroken until the journey end .
For two day they go on together , a very happy party , for the major call in Hoffman to see his friend and describe the place through which they pass .
An arrangement very agreeable to all , a Karl be a favorite , and every one miss him when away .
At Lausanne they wait while he cross the lake to secure room at Vevay .
On his return he report that all the hotel and pension be full , but that at La Tour he have secure room for a few week in a quaint old chateau on the bank of the lake .
`` Count Severin be absent in Egypt , and the housekeeper have permission to let the apartment to transient visitor .
The suite of room I speak of be engage to a party who be detain by sickness -- they be cheap , pleasant , and comfortable .
A salon and four bed-rooms .
I engage them all , think that Teblinski might like a room there till he find lodging at Montreaux .
We can enter at once , and I be sure the lady will approve of the picturesque place . ''
`` Well do , Hoffman ; off we go without delay , for I really long to rest my old bone in something like a home , after this long trip , '' say the major , who always keep his little troop in light march order .
The sail across that lovely of lake prepare the new-comers to be charm with all they saw ; and when , enter by the old stone gate , they be lead into a large saloon , quaintly furnish and open into a terrace-garden overhang the water , with Chillon and the Alps in sight , Amy declare nothing could be more perfect , and Helen 's face prove her satisfaction .
An English widow and two quiet old German professor on a vacation be the only inmates besides themselves and the buxom Swiss housekeeper and her maid .
It be late when our party arrive , and there be only time for a hasty survey of their room and a stroll in the garden before dinner .
The great chamber , with it shadowy bed , dark mirror , ghostly wainscot-doors and narrow window , have not be brighten for a long time by such a charming little apparition a Amy when she shake out her airy muslin , smooth her curl , and assume all manner of distract device for the captivation of mankind .
Even Helen , though not much give to personal vanity , find herself put flower in her hair , and study the effect of bracelet on her handsome arm , a if there be some especial need of look her best on this occasion .
Both be certainly great ornament to the drawing-room that even , a the old professor agree while they sit blink at them , like a pair of benign owl .
Casimer surprise them by his skill in music , for , though forbidden to sing on account of his weak lung , he play a if inspire .
Amy hover about him like a moth ; the major cultivate the acquaintance of the plump widow ; and Helen stand at the window , enjoy the lovely night and music , till something happen which destroy her pleasure in both .
The window be open , and , lean from it , she be watch the lake , when the sound of a heavy sigh catch her ear .
There be no moon , but through the starlight she saw a man 's figure among the shrub below , sit with bent head and hidden face in the forlorn attitude of one shut out from the music , light , and gayety that reign within .
`` It be Karl , '' she think , and be about to speak , when , a if startle by some sound she do not hear , he rise and vanish in the gloom of the garden .
`` Poor man !
he think of his wife and child , perhaps , sit here alone while all the rest make merry , with no care for him .
Uncle must see to this ; '' and Helen fell into a reverie till Amy come to propose retiring .
`` I mean to have see where all these door lead , but be so busy dress I have no time , so must leave it for my amusement to-morrow .
Uncle say it 's a very Radcliffian place .
How like an angel that man do play ! ''
chatter Amy , and lull herself to sleep by hum the last air Casimer have give them .
Helen could not sleep , for the lonely figure in the garden haunt her , and she weary herself with conjecture about Hoffman and his mystery .
Hour after hour rung from the cuckoo-clock in the hall , but still she lay awake , watch the curious shadow in the room , and excite herself with recall the tale of German goblin with which the courier have amuse them the day before .
`` It be close and musty here , with all this old tapestry and stuff about ; I 'll open the other window , '' she think ; and , noiselessly slip from Amy 's side , she throw on wrapper and slipper , light her candle and try to unbolt the tall , diamond-paned lattice .
It be rusty and would not yield , and , give it up , she glance about to see whence air could be admit .
There be four door in the room , all low and arch , with clumsy lock and heavy handle .
One open into a closet , one into the passage ; the third be lock , but the fourth open easily , and , lift her light , she peep into a small octagon room , full of all manner of curiosity .
What they be she have no time to see , for her startled eye be rivet on an object that turn her faint and cold with terror .
A heavy table stand in the middle of the room , and seat at it , with some kind of weapon before him , be a man who look over his shoulder , with a ghastly face half hide by hair and beard , and fierce black eye a full of malignant menace a be the clinched hand hold the pistol .
One instant Helen look , the next flung to the door , bolt it and drop into a chair , tremble in every limb .
The noise do not wake Amy , and a moment 's thought show Helen the wisdom of keep her in ignorance of this affair .
She know the major be close by , and possess much courage , she resolve to wait a little before rouse the house .
Hardly have she collect herself , when step be hear move softly in the octagon room .
Her light have go out a she close the door , and sit close by in the dark , she hear the sound of some one breathing a he listen at the key-hole .
Then a careful hand try the door , so noiselessly that no sleeper would have be awaken ; and a if to guard against a second surprise , the unknown person draw two bolt across the door and steal away .
`` Safe for a time ; but I 'll not pass another night under this roof , unless this be satisfactorily clear up , '' think Helen , now feel more angry than frighten .
The last hour that struck be three , and soon the summer dawn redden the sky .
Dressing herself , Helen sat by Amy , a sleepless guard , till she wake , smile and rosy a a child .
Saying nothing of her last night 's alarm , Helen go down to breakfast a little paler than usual , but otherwise unchanged .
The major never like to be disturb till he have break his fast , and the moment they rise from the table he exclaim , -- `` Now , girl , come and see the mystery of Udolpho . ''
`` I 'll say nothing , yet , '' think Helen , feel braver by daylight , yet trouble by her secret , for Hoffman might be a traitor , and this charm chateau a den of thief .
Such thing have be , and she be in a mood to believe anything .
The upper story be a perfect museum of antique relic , very entertain to examine .
Having finish these , Hoffman , who act a guide , lead them into a little gloomy room contain a straw pallet , a stone table with a loaf and pitcher on it , and , kneel before a crucifix , where the light from a single slit in the wall fell on him , be the figure of a monk .
The waxen mask be life-like , the attitude effective , and the cell excellently arrange .
Amy cry out when she first saw it , but a second glance reassure her , and she pat the bald head approvingly , a Karl explain .
-- `` Count Severin be an antiquarian , and amuse himself with thing of this sort .
In old time there really be a hermit here , and this be his effigy .
Come down these narrow stair , if you please , and see the rest of the mummery . ''
Down they go , and the instant Helen look about her , she burst into a hysterical laugh , for there sit her ruffian , exactly a she saw him , glare over his shoulder with threatening eye , and one hand on the pistol .
They all look at her , for she be pale , and her merriment unnatural ; so , feel she have excite curiosity , she gratify it by narrate her night 's adventure .
Hoffman look much concern .
`` Pardon , mademoiselle , the door should have be bolt on this side .
It usually be , but that room be unused , it be forget .
I remember it , and have rise early , creep up to make sure that you do not come upon this ugly thing unexpectedly .
But I be too late , it seem ; you have suffer , to my sorrow . ''
`` Dear Nell , and that be why I find you so pale and cold and quiet , sit by me when I wake , guard me faithfully a you promise you would .
How brave and kind you be ! ''
`` Villain !
I should much like to fire your own pistol at you for this prank of yours . ''
And Casimer laughingly filliped the image on it absurdly aquiline nose .
`` What in the name of common sense be this goblin here for ? ''
demand the major , testily .
`` There be a legend that once the owner of the chateau amuse himself by decoy traveller here , put them to sleep in that room , and by various device allure them thither .
Here , one step beyond the threshold of the door , be a trap , down which the unfortunate be precipitate to the dungeon at the bottom of the tower , there to die and be cast into the lake through a water-gate , still to be see .
Severin keep this flatter likeness of the rascal , a he do the monk above , to amuse visitor by daylight , not at night , mademoiselle . ''
And Hoffman look wrathfully at the image , a if he would much enjoy send it down the trap .
`` How ridiculous !
I shall not go about this place alone , for fear of light upon some horror of this sort .
I 've have enough ; come away into the garden ; it 's full of rose , and we may have as many a we like . ''
As she speak Amy involuntarily put out her hand for Casimer to lead her down the steep stone step , and he press the little hand with a tender look which cause it to be hastily withdraw .
`` Here be your rose .
Pretty flower ; I know it meaning in English , for it be the same with u .
To give a bud to a lady be to confess the beginning of love , a half open one tell of it growth , and a full-blown one be to declare one 's passion .
Do you have that custom in your land , mademoiselle ? ''
He have gather the three a he speak , and hold the bud separately while look at his companion wistfully .
`` No , we be not poetical , like your people , but it be a pretty fancy , '' and Amy settle her bouquet with an absorbed expression , though inwardly wonder what he would do with his flower .
He stand silent a moment , with a sudden flush sweep across his face , then fling all three into the lake with a gesture that make the girl start , and mutter between his teeth : `` No , no ; for me it be too late . ''
She affect not to hear , but make up a second bouquet , she give it to him , with no touch of coquetry in compassionate eye or gentle voice .
`` Make your room bright with these .
When one be ill nothing be so cheering a the sight of flower . ''
Meantime the others have descend and go their separate way .
As Karl cross the courtyard a little child run to meet him with outstretched arm and a shout of satisfaction .
He catch it up and carry it away on his shoulder , like one use to caress and be caress by child .
Helen , wait at the door of the tower while the major dust his coat , saw this , and say , suddenly , direct his attention to man and child , -- `` He seem fond of little people .
I wonder if he have any of his own . ''
`` Hoffman ?
No , my dear ; he 's not marry ; I ask him that when I engage him . ''
`` And he say he be not ? ''
`` Yes ; he 's not more than five or six-and-twenty , and fond of a wandering life , so what should he want of a wife and a flock of bantlings ? ''
`` He seem sad and sober sometimes , and I fancy he might have some domestic trouble to harass him .
Do n't you think there be something peculiar about him ? ''
ask Helen , remember Hoffman 's hint that her uncle know his wish to travel incognito , and wonder if he would throw any light upon the matter .
But the major 's face be impenetrable and his answer unsatisfactory .
`` Well , I do n't know .
Every one have some worry or other , and a for be peculiar , all foreigner seem more or less so to u , they be so unreserved and demonstrative .
I like Hoffman more and more every day , and shall be sorry when I part with him . ''
`` Ludmilla be his sister , then , or he do n't tell uncle the truth .
It be no concern of mine ; but I wish I know , '' think Helen anxiously , and then wonder why she should care .
A feeling of distrust have take possession of her and she determine to be on the watch , for the unsuspicious major would be easily dupe , and Helen trust more to her own quick and keen eye than to his experience .
She try to show nothing of the change in her manner : but Hoffman perceive it , and bore it with a proud patience which often touch her heart , but never alter her purpose .
VII AT FAULT Four week go by so rapidly that every one refuse to believe it when the major state the fact at the breakfast-table , for all have enjoy themselves so heartily that they have be unconscious of the lapse of time .
`` You be not go away , uncle ? ''
cry Amy , with a panic-stricken look .
`` Next week , my dear ; we must be off , for we 've much to do yet , and I promise mamma to bring you back by the end of October . ''
`` Never mind Paris and the rest of it ; this be pleasanter .
I 'd rather stay here -- '' There Amy check herself and try to hide her face behind her coffee-cup , for Casimer look up in a way that make her heart flutter and her cheek burn .
`` Sorry for it , Amy ; but go we must , so enjoy your last week with all your might , and come again next year . ''
`` It will never be again what it be now , '' sigh Amy ; and Casimer echo the word `` next year , '' a if sadly wonder if the present year would not be his last .
Helen rise silently and go into the garden , for of late she have fall into the way of reading and working in the little pavilion which stand in an angle of the wall , overlook lake and mountain .
A seat at the opposite end of the walk be Amy 's haunt , for she like the sun , and within a week or two something like constraint have exist between the cousin .
Each seem happy apart , and each be intent on her own affair .
Helen watch over Amy 's health , but no longer offer advice or ask confidence .
She often look anxious , and once or twice urge the major to go , a if conscious of some danger .
But the worthy man seem to have be bewitch as well a the young folk , and be quite happy sitting by the plump , placid widow , or leisurely walk with her to the chapel on the hillside .
All seem wait for something to break up the party , and no one have the courage to do it .
The major 's decision take every one by surprise , and Amy and Casimer look a if they have fall from the cloud .
The persistency with which the English lesson have go on be amaze , for Amy usually tire of everything in a day or two .
Now , however , she be a devoted teacher , and her pupil do her great credit by the rapidity with which he catch the language .
It look like pleasant play , sit among the rose day after day , Amy affect to embroider while she teach , Casimer march to and fro on the wide , low wall , below which lay the lake , while he learn his lesson ; then stand before her to recite , or lounge on the turf in frequent fit of idleness , both talk and laugh a great deal , and generally forget everything but the pleasure of be together .
They write little note a exercise -- Amy in French , Casimer in English , and each correct the other 's .
All very well for a time ; but a the note increase the correction decrease , and at last nothing be say of ungrammatical French or comical English and the little note be exchange in silence .
As Amy take her place that day she look forlorn , and when her pupil come her only welcome be a reproachful -- `` You be very late , sir . ''
`` It be fifteen of minute yet to ten clock , '' be Casimer 's reply , in his best English .
`` Ten o'clock , and leave out ` of ' before minute .
How many time must I tell you that ? ''
say Amy , severely , to cover her first mistake .
`` Ah , not many time ; soon all go to finish , and I have none person to make this charming English go in my so stupide head . ''
`` What will you do then ? ''
`` I jeter myself into the lake . ''
`` Do n't be foolish ; I 'm dull to-day , and want to be cheer up ; suicide be n't a pleasant subject . ''
`` Good !
See here , then -- a little plaisanterie -- what you call joke .
Can you will to see it ? ''
and he lay a little pink cocked-hat note on her lap , look like a mischievous boy a he do so . ''
` Mon Casimer Teblinski ; ' I see no joke ; '' and Amy be about to tear it up , when he catch it from destruction , and hold it out of reach , say , laugh wickedly , -- `` The ` mon ' be one abbreviation of ` monsieur , ' but you put no little -- how do you say ?
-- period at the end of him ; it go now in English -- My Casimer Teblinski , ' and that be of the most charming address . ''
Amy color , but have her return shot ready .
`` Do n't exult ; that be only an oversight , not a deliberate deception like that you put upon me .
It be very wrong and rude , and I shall not forgive it . '' ''
Mon Dieu !
where have I go in sin !
I be a polisson , a I say each day , but not a villain , I swear to you .
Say to me that which I have make of wrong , and I will do penance . ''
`` You tell me ' Ma drogha ' be the Polish for ` My pupil , ' and let me call you so a long time ; I be wiser now , '' reply Amy , with great dignity .
`` Who have say stupidity to you , that you doubt me ? ''
and Casimer assume an injured look , though his eye dance with merriment .
`` I hear Hoffman sing a Polish song to little Roserl , the burden of which be , ' Ma drogha , Ma drogha , ' and when I ask him to translate it , those two word mean , ` My darling . '
How dare you , ungrateful creature that you be ! ''
As Amy speak , half-confusedly , half-angrily , Casimer go down upon his knee , with folded hand and penitent face , exclaim , in good English , -- `` Be merciful to me a sinner .
I be tempt , and I could not resist . ''
`` Get up this instant , and stop laughing .
Say your lesson , for this will be your last , '' be the stern reply , though Amy 's face dimple all over with suppressed merriment .
He rise meekly , but make such sad work with the verb `` To love , '' that his teacher be glad to put an end to it , by propose to read her French to him .
It be `` Thaddeus of Warsaw , '' a musty little translation which she have find in the house , and begin for her own amusement .
Casimer read a little , seem interested , and suggest that they read it together , so that he might correct her accent .
Amy agree , and they be in the heart of the sentimental romance , find it more interesting than most modern reader , for the girl have an improve Thaddeus before her , and the Pole a fairer , kinder Mary Beaufort .
Dangerous time for both , but therein lay the charm ; for , though Amy say to herself each night , `` Sick , Catholic , and a foreigner , -- it can never be , '' yet each morning she felt , with increase force , how blank her day would be without him .
And Casimer , honorably restrain every word of love , yet look volume , and in spite of the glass , the girl felt the eloquence of the fine eye they could not entirely conceal .
To-day , a she read , he listen with his head lean on his hand , and though she never have read worse , he make no correction , but sit so motionless , she fancy at last that he have actually fall asleep .
Thinking to rouse him , she say , in French , -- `` Poor Thaddeus !
do n't you pity him ?
-- alone , poor , sick , and afraid to own his love . ''
`` No , I hate him , the absurd imbecile , with his fine boot and plume , and tragedy air .
He be not to be pity , for he recover health , he find a fortune , he win his Marie .
His suffering be nothing ; there be no fatal blight on him , and he have time and power to conquer his misfortune , while I -- '' Casimer speak with sudden passion , and pause abruptly , turn his face away , a if to hide some emotion he be too proud to show .
Amy 's heart ache , and her eye fill , but her voice be sweet and steady , a she say , put by the book , like one weary of it , -- `` Are you suffer to-day ?
Can we do anything for you ?
Please let u , if we may . ''
`` You give me all I can receive ; no one can help my pain yet ; but a time will come when something may be do for me ; then I will speak . ''
And , to her great surprise , he rise and leave her , without another word .
She saw him no more till evening ; then he look excited , play stormily , and would sing in defiance of danger .
The trouble in Amy 's face seem reflect in Helen 's , though not a word have pass between them .
She keep her eye on Casimer , with an intentness that worry Amy , and even when he be at the instrument Helen stand near him , a if fascinate , watch the slender hand chase one another up and down the key with untiring strength and skill .
Suddenly she leave the room and do not return .
Amy be so nervous by that time , she could restrain herself no longer , and slip out , find her cousin in their chamber , pore over a glove .
`` Oh , Nell , what be it ?
You be so odd to-night I ca n't understand you .
The music excite me , and I 'm miserable , and I want to know what have happen , '' she say , tearfully .
`` I 've find him ! ''
whisper Helen , eagerly , hold up the glove with a gesture of triumph .
`` Who ? ''
ask Amy , blind by her tear .
`` The baron . ''
`` Where ?
-- when ? ''
cry the girl , amaze .
`` Here , and now . ''
`` Do n't take my breath away ; tell me quick , or I shall get hysterical . ''
`` Casimer be Sigismund Palsdorf , and no more a Pole than I be , '' be Helen 's answer .
Amy drop in a heap on the floor , not faint , but so amazed she have neither strength nor breath left .
Sitting by her , Helen rapidly go on , -- `` I have a feeling a if something be wrong , and begin to watch .
The feeling grow , but I discover nothing till to-day .
It will make you laugh , it be so unromantic .
As I look over uncle 's thing when the laundress bring them this afternoon , I find a collar that be not his .
It be mark 'S .
P. , ' and I at once felt a great desire to know who own it .
The woman be wait for her money , and I ask her .
` Monsieur Pologne , ' she say , for his name be too much for her .
She take it into his room , and that be the end of it . ''
`` But it may be another name ; the initial only a coincidence , '' falter Amy , look frighten .
`` No , dear , it be n't ; there be more to come .
Little Roserl come cry through the hall an hour ago , and I ask what the trouble be .
She show me a prettily-bound prayer-book which she have take from the Pole 's room to play with , and have be order by her mother to carry back .
I look into it ; no name , but the same coat-of-arms a the glove and the handkerchief .
To-night a he play I examine his hand ; they be peculiar , and some of the peculiarity have leave trace on the glove .
I be sure it be he , for on look back many thing confirm the idea .
He say he be a polisson , a rogue , fond of joke , and clever at play them .
The Germans be famous for masquerade and practical joke ; this be one , I be sure , and uncle will be terribly angry if he discover it . ''
`` But why all this concealment ? ''
cry Amy .
`` Why play joke on u ?
You look so worried I know you have not tell me all you know or fear . ''
`` I confess I do fear that these men be political plotter as well a exile .
There be many such , and they make tool of rich and ignorant foreigner to further their end .
Uncle be rich , generous , and unsuspicious ; and I fear that while apparently serve and enjoy u they be use him . ''
`` Heavens , it may be !
and that would account for the change we see in him .
I think he be in love with the widow , but that may be only a cloak to hide darker design .
Karl bring u here , and I dare say it be a den of conspirator ! ''
cry Amy , feeling a if she be get more of an adventure than she have bargain for .
`` Do n't be alarm !
I be on the watch , and mean to demand an explanation from uncle , or take you away on my own responsibility , if I can . ''
Here a maid tapped to say that tea be serve .
`` We must go down , or some one will suspect trouble .
Plead headache to excuse your paleness , and I 'll keep people away .
We will manage the affair and be off as soon a possible , '' say Helen , a Amy follow her , too bewilder to answer .
Casimer be not in the room , the major and Mrs. Cumberland be sip tea side by side , and the professor roam vaguely about .
To leave Amy in peace , Helen engage them both in a lively chat , and her cousin sat by the window try to collect her thought .
Some one be pace up and down the garden , hatless , in the dew .
Amy forget everything but the danger of such exposure to her reckless friend .
His cloak and hat lay on a chair ; she catch them up and glide unperceived from the long window .
`` You be so imprudent I fear for you , and bring your thing , '' say a timid voice , a the little white figure approach the tall black one , stride down the path tempestuously .
`` You to think of me , forgetful of yourself !
Little angel of kindness , why do you take such care of me ? ''
cry Casimer , eagerly take not only the cloak , but the hand that hold it .
`` I pity you because you be ill and lonely .
You do not deserve my pity , but I forgive that , and would not see you suffer , '' be the reproachful answer , a Amy turn away .
But he hold her fast , say earnestly , -- `` What have I do ?
You be angry .
Tell me my fault and I will amend . ''
`` You have deceive me . ''
`` How ? ''
`` Will you own the truth ? ''
and in her eagerness to set her fear at rest , Amy forget Helen .
`` I will . ''
She could not see his face , but his voice be steady and his manner earnest .
`` Tell me , then , be not your true name Sigismund Palsdorf ? ''
He start , but answer instantly , -- `` It be not . ''
`` You be not the baron ? ''
cry Amy .
`` No ; I will swear it if you wish . ''
`` Who , then , be you ? ''
`` Shall I confess ? ''
`` Yes , I entreat you . ''
`` Remember , you command me to speak . ''
`` I do .
Who be you ? ''
`` Your lover . ''
The word be breathe into her ear as softly a ardently , but they startle her so much she could find no reply , and , throw himself down before her , Casimer pour out his passion with an impetuosity that hold her breathless .
`` Yes , I love you , and I tell it , vain and dishonorable a it be in one like me .
I try to hide it .
I say ` it can not be . '
I plan to go away .
But you keep me ; you be angel-good to me ; you take my heart , you care for me , teach me , pity me , and I can only love and die .
I know it be folly ; I ask nothing ; I pray to God to bless you always , and I say , Go , go , before it be too late for you , a now for me ! ''
`` Yes , I must go -- it be all wrong .
Forgive me .
I have be very selfish .
Oh , forget me and be happy , '' falter Amy , feel that her only safety be in flight .
`` Go !
go ! ''
he cry , in a heart-broken tone , yet still kiss and clung to her hand till she tear them away and flee into the house .
Helen miss her soon after she go , but could not follow for several minute ; then go to their chamber and there find Amy drown in tear , and terribly agitate .
Soon the story be tell with sob and moan , and despair lamentation fit to touch a heart of stone .
`` I do love him -- oh , I do ; but I do n't know it till he be so unhappy , and now I 've do this dreadful harm .
He 'll die , and I ca n't help him , see him , or be anything to him .
Oh , I 've be a wicked , wicked girl , and never can be happy any more . ''
Angry , perplexed , and conscience-stricken , for what now seem blind and unwise submission to the major , Helen devote herself to calm Amy , and when at last the poor , broken-hearted little soul fell asleep in her arm , she ponder half the night upon the still unsolved enigma of the Baron Sigismund .
VIII MORE MYSTERY `` Uncle , can I speak to you a moment ? ''
say Helen , very gravely , a they leave the breakfast-room next morning .
`` Not now , my dear , I 'm busy , '' be the hasty reply , a the major shawled Mrs. Cumberland for an early promenade .
Helen knit her brow irefully , for this answer have be give her half a dozen time lately when she ask for an interview .
It be evident he wish to avoid all lecture , remonstrance , and explanation ; and it be also evident that he be in love with the widow .
`` Lovers be bad than lunatic to manage , so it be vain to try to get any help from him , '' sigh Helen , add , a her uncle be gallantly lead his stout divinity away into the garden : `` Amy have a bad headache , and I shall stay to take care of her , so we ca n't join your party to Chillon , sir .
We have be there once , so you need n't postpone it for u . ''
`` Very well , my dear , '' and the major walk away , look much relieve .
As Helen be about to leave the salon Casimer appear .
A single glance at her face assure him that she know all , and instantly assume a confiding , persuasive air that be irresistible , he say , meekly , -- `` Mademoiselle , I do not deserve a word from you , but it desolate me to know that I have grieve the little angel who be too dear to me .
For her sake , pardon that I speak my heart in spite of prudence , and permit me to send her this . ''
Helen glance from the flower he hold to his beseech face , and her own softened .
He look so penitent and anxious , she have not the heart to reproach him .
`` I will forgive you and carry your gift to Amy on one condition , '' she say , gravely .
`` Ah , you be kind !
Name , then , the condition .
I implore you , and I will agree . ''
`` Tell me , then , on your honor a a gentleman , be you not Baron Palsdorf ? ''
`` On my honor a a gentleman , I swear to you I be not . ''
`` Are you , in truth , what you profess to be ? ''
`` I be , in truth , Amy 's lover , your devote servant , and a most unhappy man , with but a little while to live .
Believe this and pity me , dear Mademoiselle Helne . ''
She do pity him , her eye betray that , and her voice be very kind , a she say , -- `` Pardon my doubt .
I trust you now , and wish with all my heart that it be possible to make you happy .
You know it be not , therefore I be sure you will be wise and generous , and spare Amy far grief by avoid her for the little time we stay .
Promise me this , Casimer . ''
`` I may see her if I be dumb ?
Do not deny me this .
I will not speak , but I must look at my little and dear angel when she be near . ''
He plead so ardently with lip and hand , and eager eye , that Helen could not deny him , and when he have pour out his thanks she leave him , feel very tender toward the unhappy young lover , whose passion be so hopeless , yet so warm .
Amy be at breakfast in her room , sob and sip , moan and munching , for , though her grief be great , her appetite be good , and she be in no mood to see anything comical in crack eggshell while she bewail her broken heart , or in eat honey in the act of lament the bitterness of her fate .
Casimer would have become desperate have he see her in the little blue wrapper , with her bright hair loose on her shoulder , and her pretty face wet with tear , a she drop her spoon to seize his flower , -- three dewy rose , one a bud , one half and the other fully blow , make a fragrant record and avowal of the love which she must renounce .
`` Oh , my dear boy !
how can I give him up , when he be so fond , and I be all he have ?
Helen , uncle must let me write or go to mamma .
She shall decide ; I ca n't ; and no one else have a right to part u , '' sob Amy , over her rose .
`` Casimer will not marry , dear ; he be too generous to ask such a sacrifice , '' begin Helen , but Amy cry indignantly , -- `` It be no sacrifice ; I 'm rich .
What do I care for his poverty ? ''
`` His religion ! ''
hint Helen , anxiously .
`` It need not part u ; we can believe what we will .
He be good ; why mind whether he be Catholic or Protestant ? ''
`` But a Pole , Amy , so different in taste , habit , character , and belief .
It be a great risk to marry a foreigner ; race be so unlike . ''
`` I do n't care if he be a Tartar , a Calmuck , or any of the other wild tribe ; I love him , he love me , and no one need object if I do n't . ''
`` But , dear , the great and sad objection still remain -- his health .
He just say he have but a little while to live . ''
Amy 's angry eye grow dim , but she answer , with soft earnestness , -- `` So much the more need of me to make that little while happy .
Think how much he have suffer and do for others ; surely I may do something for him .
Oh , Nell , can I let him die alone and in exile , when I have both heart and home to give him ? ''
Helen could say no more ; she kiss and comfort the faithful little soul , feel all the while such sympathy and tenderness that she wonder at herself , for with this interest in the love of another come a sad sense of loneliness , a if she be deny the sweet experience that every woman long to know .
Amy never could remain long under a cloud , and see Helen 's tear , begin to cheer both her cousin and herself .
`` Hoffman say he might live with care , do n't you remember ?
and Hoffman know the case good than we .
Let u ask him if Casimer be bad .
You do it ; I ca n't without betray myself . ''
`` I will , '' and Helen felt grateful for any pretext to address a friendly word to Karl , who have look sad of late , and have be less with them since the major become absorb in Mrs. Cumberland .
Leaving Amy to compose herself , Helen go away to find Hoffman .
It be never difficult , for he seem to divine her wish and appear uncalled the moment he be want .
Hardly have she reach her favorite nook in the garden when he approach with letter , and ask with respectful anxiety , a she glance at and throw them by with an impatient sigh , -- `` Has mademoiselle any order ?
Will the lady drive , sail , or make a little expedition ?
It be fine , and mademoiselle look a if the air would refresh her .
Pardon that I make the suggestion . ''
`` No , Hoffman , I do n't like the air of this place , and intend to leave as soon a possible . ''
And Helen knit her delicate dark brow with an expression of great determination .
`` Switzerland be the refuge of political exile , and I hate plot and disguise ; I feel oppress by some mystery , and mean to solve or break away from it at once . ''
She stop abruptly , long to ask his help , yet withhold by a sudden sense of shyness in approach the subject , though she have decide to speak to Karl of the Pole .
`` Can I serve you , mademoiselle ?
If so , pray command me , '' he say , eagerly , come a step nearer .
`` You can , and I intend to ask your advice , for there can be nothing amiss in do so , since you be a friend of Casimer 's . ''
`` I be both friend and confidant , mademoiselle , '' he answer , a if anxious to let her understand that he know all , without the embarrassment of word .
She look up quickly , relieve , yet trouble .
`` He have tell you , then ? ''
`` Everything , mademoiselle .
Pardon me if this afflict you ; I be his only friend here , and the poor lad sorely need comfort . ''
`` He do .
I be not annoy ; I be glad , for I know you will sustain him .
Now I may speak freely , and be equally frank .
Please tell me if he be indeed fatally ill ? ''
`` It be think so some month ago ; now I hope .
Happiness cure many ill , and since he have love , he have improve .
I always think care would save him ; he be worth it . ''
Hoffman pause , a if fearful of venture too far ; but Helen seem to confide freely in him , and say , softly , -- `` Ah , if it be only wise to let him be happy .
It be so bitter to deny love . ''
`` God know it be ! ''
The exclamation break from Hoffman a if an irrepressible impulse wring it from him .
Helen start , and for a moment neither spoke .
She collect herself soonest , and without turn , say , quietly , -- `` I have be trouble by a strong impression that Casimer be not what he seem .
Till he deny it on his honor I believe him to be Baron Palsdorf .
Did he speak the truth when he say he be not ? ''
`` Yes , mademoiselle . ''
`` Then , Casimer Teblinski be his real name ? ''
No answer .
She turn sharply , and add , -- `` For my cousin 's sake , I must know the truth .
Several curious coincidence make me strongly suspect that he be pass under an assumed name . ''
Not a word say Hoffman , but look on the ground , a motionless and expressionless a a statue .
Helen lose patience , and in order to show how much she have discover , rapidly tell the story of the glove , ring , handkerchief , prayer-book and collar , omit all hint of the girlish romance they have weave about these thing .
As she end , Hoffman look up with a curious expression , in which confusion , amusement , admiration and annoyance seem to contend .
`` Mademoiselle , '' he say , gravely , `` I be about to prove to you that I feel honor by the confidence you place in me .
I can not break my word , but I will confess to you that Casimer do not bear his own name . ''
`` I know it ! ''
say Helen , with a flash of triumph in her eye .
`` He be the baron , and no Pole .
You Germans love masquerade and joke .
This be one , but I must spoil it before it be play out . ''
`` Pardon ; mademoiselle be keen , but in this she be mistake .
Casimer be not the baron ; he do fight for Poland , and his name be know and honor there .
Of this I solemnly assure you . ''
She stand up and look him straight in the face .
He meet her eye to eye , and never waver till her own fell .
She muse a few minute , entirely forgetful of herself in her eagerness to solve the mystery .
Hoffman stand so near that her dress touch him , and the wind blow her scarf against his hand ; and a she think he watch her while his eye kindle , his color rise , and once he open his lip to speak , but she move at the instant , and exclaim , -- `` I have it ! ''
`` Now for it , '' he mutter , a if preparing for some new surprise or attack .
`` When uncle use to talk about the Polish revolution , there be , I remember a gallant young Pole who do something brave .
The name just flash on me , and it clear up my doubt .
Stanislas Prakora -- 'S .
P. ' -- and Casimer be the man . ''
Helen speak with an eager , bright face , a if sure of the truth now ; but , to her surprise , Hoffman laugh , a short , irrepressible laugh , full of hearty but brief merriment .
He sober in a breath , and with an entire change of countenance say , in an embarrassed tone , -- `` Pardon my rudeness ; mademoiselle 's acuteness throw me off my guard .
I can say nothing till release from my promise ; but mademoiselle may rest assure that Casimer Teblinski be as good and brave a man a Stanislas Prakora . ''
Helen 's eye sparkle , for in this reluctant reply she read confirmation of her suspicion , and think that Amy would rejoice to learn that her lover be a hero .
`` You be exile , but still hope and plot , and never relinquish your heart ' desire ? ''
`` Never , mademoiselle ! ''
`` You be in danger ? ''
`` In daily peril of lose all we most love and long for , '' answer Karl , with such passion that Helen find patriotism a lovely and inspiring thing .
`` You have enemy ? ''
she ask , unable to control her interest , and feel the charm of these confidence .
`` Alas !
yes , '' be the mournful reply , a Karl drop his eye to hide the curious expression of mirth which he could not banish from them .
`` Can you not conquer them , or escape the danger they place you in ? ''
`` We hope to conquer , we can not escape . ''
`` This account for your disguise and Casimer 's false name ? ''
`` Yes .
We beg that mademoiselle will pardon u the anxiety and perplexity we have cause her , and hope that a time will soon arrive when we may be ourselves .
I fear the romantic interest with which the lady have honor u will be much lessen , but we shall still remain their most humble and devoted servant . ''
Something in his tone nettle Helen , and she say sharply , -- `` All this may be amuse to you , but it spoil my confidence in others to know they wear mask .
Is your name also false ? ''
`` I be Karl Hoffman , as surely a the sun shine , mademoiselle .
Do not wind me by a doubt , '' he say , eagerly .
`` And nothing more ? ''
She smile a she speak , and glance at his darkened skin with a shake of the head .
`` I dare not answer that . ''
`` No matter ; I hate title , and value people for their own worth , not for their rank . ''
Helen speak impulsively , and , a if carry away by her word and manner , Hoffman catch her hand and press his lip to it ardently , drop it , and be go , a if fearing to trust himself a moment longer .
Helen stand where he leave her , think , with a shy glance from her hand to the spot where he have stand , -- `` It be pleasant to have one 's hand kiss , a Amy say .
Poor Karl , his fate be almost as hard a Casimer 's . ''
Some subtile power seem to make the four young people shun one another carefully , though all long to be together .
The major appear to share the secret disquiet that make the rest roam listlessly about , till little Roserl come to invite them to a fte in honor of the vintage .
All be glad to go , hop in the novelty and excitement to recover their composure .
The vineyard slop up from the chateau , and on the hillside be a small plateau of level sward , shadow by a venerable oak now hang with garland , while underneath dance the chateau servant with their family , to the music of a pipe play by little Friedel .
As the gentlefolk approach , the revel stop , but the major , who be in an antic mood and dispose to be gracious , bade Friedel play on , and a Mrs. Cumberland refuse his hand with a glance at her weed , the major turn to the Count 's buxom housekeeper , and beseech her to waltz with him .
She assent , and away they go as nimbly a the best .
Amy laugh , but stop to blush , a Casimer come up with an implore glance , and whisper , -- `` Is it possible that I may enjoy one divine waltz with you before I go ? ''
Amy give him her hand with a glad assent , and Helen be leave alone .
Every one be dance but herself and Hoffman , who stand near by , apparently unconscious of the fact .
He glance covertly at her , and saw that she be beat time with foot and hand , that her eye shone , her lip smile .
He seem to take courage at this , for , walk straight up to her , he say , as coolly a if a crown-prince , -- `` Mademoiselle , may I have the honor ? ''
A flash of surprise pass over her face , but there be no anger , pride , or hesitation in her manner , a she lean toward him with a quiet `` Thanks , monsieur . ''
A look of triumph be in his eye a he sweep her away to dance , a she have never dance before , for a German waltz be full of life and spirit , wonderfully captivate to English girl , and German gentleman make it a memorable experience when they please .
As they circle round the rustic ball-room , Hoffman never take his eye off Helen 's , and , a if fascinate , she look up at him , half conscious that he be read her heart a she read his .
He say not a word , but his face grow very tender , very beautiful in her sight , a she forget everything except that he have save her life and she love him .
When they pause , she be breathless and pale ; he also ; and seat her he go away to bring her a glass of wine .
As her dizzy eye grow clear , she saw a little case at her foot , and take it up , open it .
A worn paper , contain some fade forget-me-not and these word , fell out , -- `` Gathered where Helen sit on the night of August 10th . ''
There be just time to restore it content to the case , when Hoffman return , saw it , and look intensely annoy a he ask , quickly , -- `` Did you read the name on it ? ''
`` I saw only the flower ; '' and Helen color beautifully a she speak .
`` And read them ? ''
he ask , with a look she could not meet .
She be spar an answer , for just then a lad come up , say , a he offer a note , -- `` Monsieur Hoffman , madame , at the hotel , send you this , and beg you to come at once . ''
As he impatiently open it , the wind blow the paper into Helen 's lap .
She restore it , and in the act , her quick eye catch the signature , `` Thine ever , Ludmilla . ''
A slight shadow pass over her face , leave it very cold and quiet .
Hoffman saw the change , and smile , a if well pleased , but assume suddenly his usual manner , say deferentially , -- `` Will mademoiselle permit me to visit my friend for an hour ?
-- she be expect me . ''
`` Go , then , we do not need you , '' be the brief reply , in a careless tone , a if his absence be a thing of no interest to any one .
`` Thanks ; I shall not be long away ; '' and give her a glance that make her turn scarlet with anger at it undisguised admiration , he walk away , hum gayly to himself Goethe 's line , -- `` Maiden 's heart and city 's wall Were make to yield , be make to fall ; When we 've hold them each their day , Soldier-like we march away . ''
IX `` S.P. '' AND THE BARON Dinner be over , and the salon desert by all but the two young lady , who sit apart , apparently absorb in novel , while each be privately long for somebody to come , and with the charm inconsistency of the fair sex , plan to fly if certain somebody do appear .
Steps approach ; both bury themselves in their book ; both hold their breath and felt their heart flutter a they never have do before at the step of mortal man .
The door open ; neither look up , yet each be conscious of mingled disappointment and relief when the major say , in a grave tone , `` Girls , I 've something to tell you . ''
`` We know what it be , sir , '' return Helen , coolly .
`` I beg your pardon , but you do n't , my dear , a I will prove in five minute , if you will give me your attention . ''
The major look a if brace up to some momentous undertaking ; and plant himself before the two young lady , dash bravely into the subject .
`` Girls , I 've play a bold game , but I 've win it , and will take the consequence . ''
`` They will fall heavy on you , uncle , '' say Helen , think he be about to declare his love for the widow .
The major laugh , shrug his shoulder , and answer , stoutly , -- `` I 'll bear them ; but you be quite wrong , my dear , in your surmise , a you will soon see .
Helen be my ward , and accountable to me alone .
Amy 's mother give her into my charge , and wo n't reproach me for anything that have pass when I explain matter .
As to the lad they must take care of themselves . ''
Suddenly both girl color , flutter , and become intensely interested .
The major 's eye twinkle a he assume a perfectly impassive expression , and rapidly deliver himself of the following thunderbolt , -- `` Girls , you have be deceive , and the young men you love be impostor . ''
`` I think so , '' mutter Helen , grimly .
`` Oh , uncle , do n't , do n't say that ! ''
cry Amy , despairingly .
`` It 's true , my dear ; and the bad of it be , I know the truth all the time .
Now , do n't have hysteric , but listen and enjoy the joke a I do .
At Coblentz , when you sit in the balcony , two young men overheard Amy sigh for adventure , and Helen advise make a romance out of the glove one of the lad have drop .
They have see you by day ; both admired you , and be idle , gay young fellow , they resolve to devote their vacation to gratify your wish and enjoy themselves .
We meet at the Fortress ; I know one of them , and like the other immensely ; so when they confide their scheme to me I agree to help them carry it out , a I have perfect confidence in both , and think a little adventure or two would do you good . ''
`` Uncle , you be mad , '' say Helen ; and Amy add , tragically , -- `` You do n't know what trouble have come of it . ''
`` Perhaps I be ; that remain to be prove .
I do know everything , and fail to see any trouble , so do n't cry , little girl , '' briskly reply the inexplicable major .
`` Well , we have a merry time plan our prank .
One of the lad insist on play courier , though I object .
He 'd do it before , like the part , and would have his way .
The other could n't decide , be young and more in love ; so we leave him to come into the comedy when he be ready .
Karl do capitally , a you will allow ; and I be much attach to him , for in all respect he have be true to his word .
He begin at Coblentz ; the other , after do the mysterious at Heidelberg , appear a an exile , and make quick work with the prejudice of my well-beloved niece -- hey , Amy ? ''
`` Go on ; who be they ? ''
cry both girl , breathlessly .
`` Wait a bit ; I 'm not bind to expose the poor fellow to your scorn and anger .
No ; if you be go to be high and haughty , to forget their love , refuse to forgive their frolic , and rend their heart with reproach , good let them remain unknown . ''
`` No , no ; we will forget and forgive , only speak ! ''
be the command of both .
`` You promise to be lenient and mild , to let them confess their motif , and to award a gentle penance for their sin ? ''
`` Yes , we promise ! ''
`` Then , come in , my lad , and plead for your life . ''
As he speak the major threw open the door , and two gentleman enter the room -- one , slight and dark , with brilliant black eye ; the other tall and large , with blond hair and beard .
Angry , bewilder , and shame-stricken a they be , feminine curiosity overpower all other feeling for the moment , and the girl sit look at the culprit with eager eye , full of instant recognition ; for though the disguise be off , and neither have see them in their true character but once , they felt no doubt , and involuntarily exclaim , -- `` Karl ! ''
`` Casimer . ''
`` No , young lady ; the courier and exile be defunct , and from their ash rise Baron Sigismund Palsdorf , my friend , and Sidney Power , my nephew .
I give you one hour to settle the matter ; then I shall return to bestow my blessing or to banish these scapegrace forever . ''
And , have fire his last shot , the major prudently retreat , without wait to see it effect .
It be tremendous , for it carry confusion into the fair enemy 's camp ; and give the besieger a momentary advantage of which they be not slow to avail themselves .
For a moment the four remain mute and motionless : then Amy , like all timid thing , take refuge in flight , and Sidney follow her into the garden , glad to see the ally separate .
Helen , with the courage of her nature , try to face and repulse the foe ; but love be strong than pride , maiden shame overcame anger , and , find it vain to meet and bear down the steady , tender glance of the blue eye fix upon her , she drop her head into her hand and sit before him , like one conquer but too proud to cry `` Quarter . ''
Her lover watch her till she hide her face , then draw near , kneel down before her , and say , with an undertone of deep feeling below the mirthful malice of his word , -- `` Mademoiselle , pardon me that I be a foolish baron , and dare to offer you the title that you hate .
I have serve you faithfully for a month , and , presumptuous a it be , I ask to be allow to serve you all my life .
Helen , say you forgive the deceit for love 's sake . ''
`` No ; you be false and forsworn .
How can I believe that anything be true ? ''
And Helen draw away the hand of which he have take possession .
`` Heart 's dear , you trust me in spite of my disguise ; trust me still , and I will prove that I be neither false nor forsworn .
Catechise me , and see if I be not true in spite of all my seeming deception . ''
`` You say your name be Karl Hoffman , '' begin Helen , glad to gain a little time to calm herself before the momentous question come .
`` It be ; I have many , and my family choose to call me Sigismund , '' be the laugh answer .
`` I 'll never call you so ; you shall be Karl , the courier , all your life to me , '' cry Helen , still unable to meet the ardent eye before her .
`` Good ; I like that well ; for it assure me that all my life I shall be something to you , my heart .
What next ? ''
`` When I ask if you be the baron , you deny it . ''
`` Pardon !
I simply say my name be Hoffman .
You do not ask me point blank if I be the baron ; have you do so , I think I should have confess all , for it be very hard to restrain myself this morning . ''
`` No , not yet ; I have more question ; '' and Helen warn him away , a it become evident that he no longer consider restraint necessary .
`` Who be Ludmilla ? ''
she say , sharply .
`` My faith , that be superb ! ''
exclaim the baron , with a triumphant smile at her betrayal of jealousy .
`` How if she be a former love ? ''
he ask , with a sly look at her change face .
`` It would cause me no surprise ; I be prepared for anything . ''
`` How if she be my dear sister , for whom I send , that she might welcome you and bring the greeting of my parent to their new daughter ? ''
`` Is it , indeed , so ? ''
And Helen 's eye dim a the thought of parent , home and love fill her heart with tender gratitude , for she have long be an orphan . ''
Leibchen , it be true ; to-morrow you shall see how dear you already be to them , for I write often and they wait eagerly to receive you . ''
Helen felt herself go very fast , and make an effort to harden her heart , l too easy victory should reward this audacious lover .
`` I may not go ; I also have friend , and in England we be not win in this wild way .
I will yet prove you false ; it will console me for be so duped if I can call you traitor .
You say Casimer have fight in Poland . ''
`` Crudest of woman , he do , but under his own name , Sidney Power . ''
`` Then , he be not the brave Stanislas ?
-- and there be no charm Casimer ? ''
`` Yes , there be both , -- his and my friend , in Paris ; true Poles , and when we go there you shall see them . ''
`` But his illness be a ruse ? ''
`` No ; he be wound in the war and have be ill since .
Not of a fatal malady , I own ; his cough mislead you , and he have no scruple in fabling to any extent .
I be not to bear the burden of his sin . ''
`` Then , the romance he tell u about your charity , your virtue , and -- your love of liberty be false ? ''
say Helen , with a keen glance , for these tale have do much to interest her in the unknown baron .
Sudden color rise to his forehead , and for the first time his eye fell before hers , -- not in shame , but with a modest man 's annoyance at hear himself praise .
`` Sidney be enthusiastic in his friendship , and speak too well for me .
The fact be true , but he doubtless glorify the simplest by his way of tell it .
Will you forgive my folly , and believe me when I promise to play and duel no more ? ''
`` Yes . ''
She yield her hand now , and her eye be full of happiness , yet she add , wistfully , -- `` And the betroth , your cousin , Minna , -- be she , in truth , not dear to you ? ''
`` Very dear , but less so than another ; for I could not learn of her in year what I learn in a day when I meet you .
Helen , this be begin in jest , -- it end in solemn earnest , for I love my liberty , and I have lose it , utterly and forever .
Yet I be glad ; look in my face and tell me you believe it . ''
He speak now as seriously a fervently , and with no shadow on her own , Helen brush back the blond hair and look into her lover 's face .
Truth , tenderness , power , and candor be write there in character that could not lie ; and with her heart upon her lip , she answer , a he draw her close , -- `` I do believe , do love you , Sigismund ! ''
Meanwhile another scene be pass in the garden .
Sidney , presume upon his cousinship , take possession of Amy , bid her `` strike but hear him . ''
Of course she listen with the usual accompaniment of tear and smile , reproach and exclamation , vary by cruel exultation and coquettish command to go away and never dare approach her again . ''
Ma drogha , listen and be appease .
Years ago you and I play together a baby , and our fond mamma vow we should one day mate .
When I be a youth of fourteen and you a mite of seven I go away to India with my father , and at our part promise to come back and marry you .
Being in a fret because you could n't go also , you haughtily decline the honor , and when I offer a farewell kiss , strike me with this very little hand .
Do you remember it ? ''
`` Not I . Too young for such nonsense . ''
`` I do , and I also remember that in my boyish way I resolve to keep my word sooner or later , and I 've do it . ''
`` We shall see , sir , '' cry Amy , strongly tempt to repeat her part of the childish scene as well a her cousin , but her hand be not free , and he get the kiss without the blow .
`` For eleven year we never meet .
You forget me , and ` Cousin Sidney ' remain an empty name .
I be in India till four year ago ; since then I 've be fly about Germany and fight in Poland , where I nearly get my quietus . ''
`` My dear boy , be you wound ? ''
`` Bless you , yes ; and very proud of it I be .
I 'll show you my scar some day ; but never mind that now .
A while ago I go to England , seize with a sudden desire to find my wife . ''
`` I admire your patience in wait ; so flatter to me , you know , '' be the sharp answer .
`` It look like neglect , I confess ; but I 'd hear report of your flirtation , and twice of your be engage , so I keep away till my work be do .
Was it true ? ''
`` I never flirt , Sidney , and I be only engage a little bit once or twice .
I do n't like it , and never mean to do so any more . ''
`` I shall see that you do n't flirt ; but you be very much engage now , so put on your ring and make no romance about any 'S .
P. ' but myself . ''
`` I shall wait till you clear your character ; I 'm not go to care for a deceitful impostor .
What make you think of this prank ? ''
`` You do . ''
`` I ?
How ? ''
`` When in England I saw your picture , though you be many a mile away , and fell in love with it .
Your mother tell me much about you , and I saw she would not frown upon my suit .
I beg her not to tell you I have come , but let me find you and make myself know when I like .
You be in Switzerland , and I go after you .
At Coblentz I meet Sigismund , and tell him my case ; he be full of romance , and when we overhear you in the balcony we be glad of the hint .
Sigismund be with me when you come , and admire Helen immensely , so he be wild to have a part in the frolic .
I let him begin , and follow you unseen to Heidelberg , mean to personate an artist .
Meeting you at the castle , I make a good beginning with the vault and the ring , and meant to follow it up by act the baron , you be so bent on find him , but Sigismund forbid it .
Turning over a trunk of thing leave there the year before , I come upon my old Polish uniform , and decide to be a Thaddeus . ''
`` How well you do it !
Was n't it hard to act all the time ? ''
ask Amy , wonderingly .
`` Very hard with Helen , she be so keen , but not a bit so with you , for you be such a confiding soul any one could cheat you .
I 've betray myself a dozen time , and you never saw it .
Ah , it be capital fun to play the forlorn exile , study English , and flirt with my cousin . ''
`` It be very base .
I should think you 'd be devour with remorse .
Are n't you sorry ? ''
`` For one thing .
I crop my head lest you should know me .
I be proud of my curl , but I sacrifice them all to you . ''
`` Peacock !
Did you think that one glimpse of your black eye and fine hair would make such an impression that I should recognize you again ? ''
`` I do , and for that reason disfigure my head , put on a mustache , and assume hideous spectacle .
Did you never suspect my disguise , Amy ? ''
`` No .
Helen use to say that she felt something be wrong , but I never do till the other night . ''
`` Did n't I do that well ?
I give you my word it be all do on the spur of the minute .
I mean to speak soon , but have not decide how , when you come out so sweetly with that confound old cloak , of which I 'd no more need than an African have of a blanket .
Then a scene I 'd read in a novel come into my head , and I just repeat it con amore .
Was I very pathetic and tragical .
Amy ? ''
`` I think so then .
It strike me a ridiculous now , and I ca n't help feel sorry that I waste so much pity on a man who -- '' `` Loves you with all his heart and soul .
Did you cry and grieve over me , dear little tender thing ?
and do you think now that I be a heartless fellow , bent only on amuse myself at the expense of others ?
It 's not so ; and you shall see how true and good and steady I can be when I have any one to love and care for me .
I 've be alone so long it 's new and beautiful to be pet , confide in , and look up to by an angel like you . ''
He be in earnest now ; she felt it , and her anger melt away like dew before the sun .
`` Poor boy !
You will go home with u now , and let u take care of you in quiet England .
You 'll play no more prank , but go soberly to work and do something that shall make me proud to be your cousin , wo n't you ? ''
`` If you 'll change ` cousin ' to ` wife ' I 'll be and do whatever you please .
Amy , when I be a poor , die , Catholic foreigner you love me and would have marry me in spite of everything .
Now that I 'm your well , rich , Protestant cousin , who adore you a that Pole never could , you turn cold and cruel .
Is it because the romance be go , or because your love be only a girl 's fancy , after all ? ''
`` You deceive me and I ca n't forget it ; but I 'll try , '' be the soft answer to his reproach .
`` Are you disappointed that I 'm not a baron ? ''
`` A little bit . ''
`` Shall I be a count ?
They give me a title in Poland , a barren honor , but all they have to offer , poor soul , in return for a little blood .
Will you be Countess Zytomar and get laugh at for your pain , or plain Mrs. Power , with a good old English name ? ''
`` Neither , thank you ; it 's only a girlish fancy , which will soon be forget .
Does the baron love Helen ? ''
ask Amy , abruptly .
`` Desperately , and she ? ''
`` I think he will be happy ; she be not one to make confidante , but I know by her tenderness with me , her sadness lately , and something in her way of brighten when he come , that she think much of him and love Karl Hoffman .
How it will be with the baron I can not say . ''
`` No fear of him ; he win his way everywhere .
I wish I be a fortunate ; '' and the gay young gentleman heave an artful sigh and cough the cough that always bring such pity to the girl 's soft eye .
She glance at him a he lean pensively on the low wall , look down into the lake , with the level ray of sunshine on his comely face and figure .
Something soft than pity stole into her eye , a she say , anxiously , -- `` You be not really ill , Sidney ? ''
`` I have be , and still need care , else I may have a relapse , '' be the reply of this treacherous youth , whose constitution be as sound a a bell .
Amy clasp her hand , a if in a transport of gratitude , exclaim , fervently , -- `` What a relief it be to know that you be not doom to -- '' She pause with a shiver , a if the word be too hard to utter , and Sidney turn to her with a beam face , which change to one of mingle pain and anger , a she add , with a wicked glance , -- `` Wear spectacle . ''
`` Amy , you 've get no heart ! ''
he cry , in a tone that banish her last doubt of his love and make her whisper tenderly , a she cling to his arm , -- `` No , dear ; I 've give it all to you . ''
Punctual to the minute , Major Erskine march into the salon , with Mrs. Cumberland on his arm , exclaim , a he eye the four young people together again , -- `` Now , lady , be it to be ` Paradise Lost ' or ` Regained ' for the prisoner at the bar ? ''
At this point the astonished gentleman find himself take possession of by four excited individual , for the girl embrace and kiss him , the young men wring his hand and thank him , and all seem bent on assure him that they be intensely happy , grateful and affectionate .
From this assault he emerge flush and breathless , but beam with satisfaction , and say paternally , -- `` Bless you , my child , bless you .
I hop and work for this , and to prove how well I practise what I preach , let me present to you -- my wife . ''
As he draw forward the plump widow with a face full of smile and tear , a second rush be make , and congratulation , salute , exclamation and embrace be indulge in to every one 's satisfaction .
As the excitement subside the major say , simply , -- `` We be marry yesterday at Montreaux .
Let me hope that you will prove as faithful a I have be , as happy a I be , as blest a I shall be .
I love this lady in my youth , have wait many year , and be reward at last , for love never come too late . ''
The falter in his cheery voice , the dimness of his eye , the smile on his lip , and the gesture with which he return the pressure of the hand upon his arm , tell the little romance of the good major 's life more eloquently than page of fine writing , and touch the heart of those who love him .
`` I have be faithful for eleven year .
Give me my reward soon , wo n't you , dear ? ''
whispered Sidney .
`` Do n't marry me to-morrow , and if mamma be willing I 'll think about it by and by , '' answer Amy .
`` It be beautiful !
let u go and do likewise , '' say Sigismund to his betroth .
But Helen , anxious to turn the thought of all from emotion too deep for word , draw from her pocket a small pearl-colored object , which she give to Amy with mock solemnity , a she say , turn to lay her hand again in her lover 's , -- `` Amy , our search be over .
You may keep the glove ; I have the baron . ''
MY RED CAP `` He who serve well need not fear to ask his wage . ''
I It be under a blue cap that I first saw the honest face of Joe Collins .
In the third year of the late war a Maine regiment be pass through Boston , on it way to Washington .
The Common be all alive with troop and the spectator who cluster round them to say God-speed , a the brave fellow march away to meet danger and death for our sake .
Every one be eager to do something ; and , a the men stand at ease , the people mingle freely with them , offer gift , hearty grip of the hand , and hopeful prophecy of victory in the end .
Irresistibly attract , my boy Tom and I draw near , and soon , become excite by the scene , ravage the fruit-stands in our neighborhood for token of our regard , mingle candy and congratulation , peanut and prayer , apple and applause , in one enthusiastic jumble .
While Tom be off on his third raid , my attention be attract by a man who stand a little apart , look a if his thought be far away .
All the men be fine , stalwart fellow , a Maine men usually be ; but this one over-topped his comrade , stand straight and tall a a Norway pine , with a face full of the mingled shrewdness , sobriety , and self-possession of the typical New Englander .
I like the look of him ; and , see that he seem solitary , even in a crowd , I offer him my last apple with a word of interest .
The keen blue eye meet mine gratefully , and the apple begin to vanish in vigorous bite a we talk ; for no one thought of ceremony at such a time .
`` Where be you from ? ''
`` Woolidge , ma'am . ''
`` Are you glad to go ? ''
`` Wal , there 's two side to that question .
I calk ` late to do my duty , and do it hearty : but it be rough on a feller leavin ' his folk , for good , maybe . ''
There be a sudden huskiness in the man 's voice that be not apple-skins , though he try to make believe that it be .
I know a word about home would comfort him , so I go on with my question .
`` It be very hard .
Do you leave a family ? ''
`` My old mother , a sick brother , -- and Lucindy . ''
The last word be utter in a tone of intense regret , and his brown cheek redden a he add hastily , to hide some embarrassment .
-- `` You see , Jim go last year , and get pretty well use up ; so I felt a if I 'd ought to take my turn now .
Mother be a regular old hero about it and I drop everything , and come off .
Lucindy do n't think it be my duty ; and that make it awful hard , I tell you . ''
`` Wives be less patriotic than mother , '' I begin ; but he would not hear Lucindy blame , and say quickly , -- `` She ai n't my wife yet , but we calk ` lated to be marry in a month or so ; and it be wu for her than for me , woman lot so on not be disappoint .
I could n't shirk , and here I be .
When I git to work , I shall be all right : the first wrench be the tryin ' part . ''
Here he straighten his broad shoulder , and turn his face toward the flag flutter far in front , a if no backward look should betray the longing of his heart for mother , home , and wife .
I like that little glimpse of character ; and when Tom return with empty hand , report that every stall be exhaust , I tell him to find out what the man would like best , then run across the street and get it .
`` I know without ask .
Give u your purse , and I 'll make him as happy a a king , '' say the boy , laugh , a he look up admiringly at our tall friend , who look down on him with an elder-brotherly air pleasant to see .
While Tom be go , I find out Joe 's name and business , promise to write and tell his mother how finely the regiment go off , and be just express a hope that we might meet again , for I too be go to the war a nurse , when the order to `` Fall in ! ''
come roll down the rank , and the talk be over .
Fearing Tom would miss our man in the confusion , I keep my eye on him till the boy come rush up with a packet of tobacco in one hand and a good supply of cigar in the other .
Not a romantic offering , certainly , but a very acceptable one , a Joe 's face prove , a we scramble these treasure into his pocket , all laughing at the flurry , while less fortunate comrade help u , with an eye to a share of these fragrant luxury by and by .
There be just time for this , a hearty shake of the big hand , and a grateful `` Good-by , ma'am ; '' then the word be give , and they be off .
Bent on see the last of them , Tom and I take a short cut , and come out on the wide street down which so many troop march that year ; and , mount some high step , we watch for our man , a we already call him .
As the inspiring music , the grand tramp , draw near , the old thrill go through the crowd , the old cheer break out .
But it be a different scene now than in the first enthusiastic , hopeful day .
Young men and ardent boy fill the rank then , brave by instinct , burn with loyal zeal , and blissfully unconscious of all that lay before them .
Now the blue coat be wear by mature men , some gray , all grave and resolute : husband and father , with the memory of wife and child tug at their heart-strings ; home leave desolate behind them , and before them the grim certainty of danger , hardship , and perhaps the lifelong helplessness bad than death .
Little of the glamour of romance about the war now : they saw it a it be , a long , hard task ; and here be the men to do it well .
Even the lookers-on be different now .
Once all be wild enthusiasm and glad uproar ; now men 's lip be set , and woman 's smileless a they cheer ; few handkerchief whiten the air , for wet eye need them ; and sudden lull , almost solemn in their stillness , follow the acclamation of the crowd .
All watch with quickened breath and brave soul that live wave , blue below , and bright with a steely glitter above , a it flow down the street and away to distant battle-fields already stain with precious blood .
`` There he be !
The outside man , and tall of the lot .
Give him a cheer , auntie : he see u , and remembers ! ''
cried Tom , nearly tumble off his perch , a he wave his hat , and point out Joe Collins .
Yes , there he be , look up , with a smile on his brave brown face , my little nosegay in his button-hole , a suspicious bulge in the pocket close by , and doubtless a comfortable quid in his mouth , to cheer the weary march .
How like an old friend he look , though we have only meet fifteen minute ago ; how glad we be to be there to smile back at him , and send him on his way feeling that , even in a strange city , there be some one to say , `` God bless you , Joe ! ''
We watch the tall blue cap till it vanish , and then go home in a glow of patriotism , -- Tom to long for his turn to come , I to sew vigorously on the gray gown the new nurse burn to wear as soon a possible , and both of u to think and speak often of poor Joe Collins and his Lucindy .
All this happen long ago ; but it be well to recall those stir time , -- to keep fresh the memory of sacrifice make for u by men like these ; to see to it that the debt we owe them be honestly , gladly pay ; and , while we decorate the graf of those who die , to remember also those who still live to deserve our grateful care .
II I never expect to see Joe again ; but , six month later , we do meet in a Washington hospital one winter 's night .
A train of ambulance have leave their sad freight at our door , and we be hurry to get the poor fellows into much need bed , after a week of hunger , cold , and unavoidable neglect .
All form of pain be in my ward that night , and all borne with the pathetic patience which be a daily marvel to those who saw it .
Trying to bring order out of chaos , I be rush up and down the narrow aisle between the row of rapidly fill bed , and , after brush several time against a pair of the large and muddy boot I ever saw , I pause at last to inquire why they be impede the passageway .
I find they belong to a very tall man who seem to be already asleep or dead , so white and still and utterly wear out he look a he lay there , without a coat , a great patch on his forehead , and the right arm rudely bundle up .
Stooping to cover him , I saw that he be unconscious , and , whip out my brandy-bottle and salt , soon bring him round , for it be only exhaustion .
`` Can you eat ? ''
I ask , a he say , `` Thanky , ma'am , '' after a long draught of water and a dizzy stare .
`` Eat !
I 'm starvin ' ! ''
he answer , with such a ravenous glance at a fat nurse who happen to be pass , that I tremble for her , and hasten to take a bowl of soup from her tray .
As I feed him , his gaunt , weather-beaten face have a familiar look ; but so many such face have pass before me that winter , I do not recall this one till the ward-master come to put up the card with the new-comers ' name above their bed .
My man seem absorb in his food ; but I naturally glance at the card , and there be the name `` Joseph Collins '' to give me an additional interest in my new patient .
`` Why , Joe !
be it really you ? ''
I exclaim , pour the last spoonful of soup down his throat so hastily that I choke him .
`` All that 's left of me .
Wal , ai n't this luck , now ? ''
gasp Joe , as gratefully a if that hospital-cot be a bed of rose .
`` What be the matter ?
A wound in the head and arm ? ''
I ask , feel sure that no slight affliction have bring Joe there .
`` Right arm go .
Shot off as slick a a whistle .
I tell you , it 's a sing ` lar kind of a feelin ' to see a piece of your own body go flyin ' away , with no prospect of ever come back again , '' say Joe , try to make light of one of the great misfortune a man can suffer .
`` That be bad , but it might have be bad .
Keep up your spirit , Joe ; and we will soon have you fit out with a new arm almost as good a new . ''
`` I guess it wo n't do much lumberin ' , so that trade be do for .
I s ` pose there 's thing left-handed feller can do , and I must learn 'em as soon a possible , since my fightin ' day be over , '' and Joe look at his one arm with a sigh that be almost a groan , helplessness be such a trial to a manly man , -- and he be eminently so .
`` What can I do to comfort you most , Joe ?
I 'll send my good Ben to help you to bed , and will be here myself when the surgeon go his round .
Is there anything else that would make you more easy ? ''
`` If you could just drop a line to mother to let her know I 'm alive , it would be a sight of comfort to both of u .
I guess I 'm in for a long spell of hospital , and I 'd lay easy if I know mother and Lucindy war n't frettin ' about me . ''
He must have be suffer terribly , but he think of the woman who love him before himself , and , busy a I be , I snatch a moment to send a few word of hope to the old mother .
Then I leave him `` layin ' easy , '' though the prospect of some month of wear pain would have daunt most men .
If I have need anything to increase my regard for Joe , it would have be the courage with which he bore a very bad quarter of an hour with the surgeon ; for his arm be in a dangerous state , the wound in the head feverish for want of care ; and a heavy cold on the lung suggest pneumonia a an added trial to his list of ill .
`` He will have a hard time of it , but I think he will pull through , a he be a temperate fellow , with a splendid constitution , '' be the doctor 's verdict , a he leave u for the next man , who be past help , with a bullet through his lung .
`` I don ` no a I hanker to live , and be a burden .
If Jim be able to do for mother , I feel a if I would n't mind steppin ' out now I 'm so fur along .
As he ai n't , I s ` pose I must brace up , and do the best I can , '' say Joe , a I wipe the drop from his forehead , and try to look a if his prospect be a bright one .
`` You will have Lucindy to help you , you know ; and that will make thing easy for all . ''
`` Think so ?
` Pears to me I could n't ask her to take care of three invalid for my sake .
She ai n't no folk of her own , nor much mean , and ought to marry a man who can make thing easy for her .
Guess I 'll have to wait a spell long before I say anything to Lucindy about marryin ' now ; '' and a look of resolute resignation settle on Joe 's haggard face a he give up his dear hope .
`` I think Lucindy will have something to say , if she be like most woman , and you will find the burden much light , for share them between you .
Do n't worry about that , but get well , and go home as soon a you can . ''
`` All right , ma'am ; '' and Joe prove himself a good soldier by obey order , and fall asleep like a tired child , a the first step toward recovery .
For two month I saw Joe daily , and learn to like him very much , he be so honest , genuine , and kind-hearted .
So do his mate , for he make friend with them all by share such small luxury a come to him , for he be a favorite ; and , good still , he make sunshine in that sad place by the brave patience with which he bore his own trouble , the cheerful consolation he always give to others .
A droll fellow be Joe at time , for under his sobriety lay much humor ; and I soon discover that a visit from him be more efficacious than other cordial in case of despondency and discontent .
Roars of laughter sometimes greet me a I go into his ward , and Joe 's joke be pass round as eagerly a the water-pitcher .
Yet he have much to try him , not only in the ill that vex his flesh , but the care that try his spirit , and the future that lay before him , full of anxiety and responsibility which seem so heavy now when the strong right arm , that have clear all obstacle away before , be go .
The letter I write for him , and those he receive , tell the little story very plainly ; for he read them to me , and find much comfort in talk over his affair , a most men do when illness make them dependent on a woman .
Jim be evidently sick and selfish .
Lucindy , to judge from the photograph cherish so tenderly under Joe 's pillow , be a pretty , weak sort of a girl , with little character or courage to help poor Joe with his burden .
The old mother be very like her son , and stand by him `` like a hero , '' a he say , but be evidently fail , and beg him to come home as soon a he be able , that she might see him comfortably settle before she must leave him .
Her courage sustain his , and the longing to see her hasten his departure as soon a it be safe to let him go ; for Lucindy 's letter be always of a dismal sort , and make him anxious to put his shoulder to the wheel .
`` She always set consider ` ble by me , mother do , bein ' the old ; and I would n't miss makin ' her last day happy , not if it cost me all the arm and leg I 've get , '' say Joe , a he awkwardly struggle into the big boot an hour after leave to go home be give him .
It be pleasant to see his comrade gather round him with such hearty adieu that his one hand must have tingle ; to hear the good wish and the thanks call after him by pale creature in their bed ; and to find tear in many eye beside my own when he be go , and nothing be leave of him but the empty cot , the old gray wrapper , and the name upon the wall .
I keep that card among my other relic , and hop to meet Joe again somewhere in the world .
He send me one or two letter , then I go home ; the war end soon after , time pass , and the little story of my Maine lumberman be lay away with many other experience which make that part of my life a very memorable one .
III Some year later , a I look out of my window one dull November day , the only cheerful thing I saw be the red cap of a messenger who be examine the slate that hung on a wall opposite my hotel .
A tall man with gray hair and beard , one arm , and a blue army-coat .
I always salute , figuratively at least , when I see that familiar blue , especially if one sleeve of the coat be empty ; so I watch the messenger with interest a he trudge away on some new errand , wish he have a good day and a thicker pair of boot .
He be an unusually large , well-made man , and remind me of a fine building go to ruin before it time ; for the broad shoulder be bent , there be a stiffness about the long legs suggestive of wound or rheumatism , and the curly hair look a if snow have fall on it too soon .
Sitting at work in my window , I fell into the way of watch my Red Cap , a I call him , with more interest than I do the fat doves on the roof opposite , or the pert sparrow hop in the mud below .
I like the steady way in which he plod on through fair weather or foul , a if intent on do well the one small service he have find to do .
I like his cheerful whistle a he stand wait for a job under the porch of the public building where his slate hung , watch the luxurious carriage roll by , and the well-to-do gentleman who daily pass him to their comfortable home , with a steady , patient sort of face , a if wondering at the inequality of fortune , yet neither melancholy nor morose over the small share of prosperity which have fall to his lot .
I often plan to give him a job , that I might see him nearer ; but I have few errand , and little Bob , the hall-boy , depend on do those : so the winter be nearly over before I find out that my Red Cap be an old friend .
A parcel come for me one day , and bid the man wait for an answer , I sit down to write it , while the messenger stand just inside the door like a sentinel on duty .
When I look up to give my note and direction , I find the man star at me with a beaming yet bashful face , a he nod , say heartily , -- `` I mistrust it be you , ma'am , soon 's I see the name on the bundle , and I guess I ai n't wrong .
It 's a number of year sence we meet , and you do n't remember Joe Collins as well a he do you , I reckon ? ''
`` Why , how you have change !
I 've be see you every day all winter , and never know you , '' I say , shake hand with my old patient , and very glad to see him .
`` Nigh on to twenty year make consid ` able of a change in folk , ` specially if they have a pretty hard row to hoe . ''
`` Sit down and warm yourself while you tell me all about it ; there be no hurry for this answer , and I 'll pay for your time . ''
Joe laugh a if that be a good joke , and sit down as if the fire be quite as welcome a the friend .
`` How be they all at home ? ''
I ask , a he sit turn his cap round , not quite know where to begin .
`` I have n't get any home nor any folk neither ; '' and the melancholy word banish the brightness from his rough face like a cloud .
`` Mother die soon after I get back .
Suddin ' , but she be ready , and I be there , so she be happy .
Jim live a number of year , and be a sight of care , poor feller ; but we manage to rub along , though we have to sell the farm : for I could n't do much with one arm , and doctor 's bill right along stiddy take a heap of money .
He be as comfortable a he could be ; and , when he be go , it be n't no great matter , for there be only me , and I do n't mind roughin ' it . ''
`` But Lucindy , where be she ? ''
I ask very naturally .
`` Oh !
she marry another man long ago .
Could n't expect her to take me and my misfortins .
She 's doin ' well , I hear , and that 's a comfort anyway . ''
There be a look on Joe 's face , a tone in Joe 's voice a he speak , that plainly show how much he have need comfort when left to bear his misfortune all alone .
But he make no complaint , utter no reproach , and loyally excuse Lucindy 's desertion with a simple sort of dignity that make it impossible to express pity or condemnation .
`` How come you here , Joe ? ''
I ask , make a sudden leap from past to present .
`` I have to scratch for a livin ' , and ca n't do much : so , after tryin ' a number of thing , I find this .
My old wound pester me a good deal , and rheumatism be bad winter ; but , while my leg hold out , I can git on .
A man ca n't set down and starve ; so I keep waggin ' as long a I can .
When I ca n't do no more , I s ` pose there 's almshouse and hospital ready for me . ''
`` That be a dismal prospect , Joe .
There ought to be a comfortable place for such a you to spend your last day in .
I be sure you have earn it . ''
`` Wal , it do seem ruther hard on u when we 've give all we have , and give it free and hearty , to be leave to knock about in our old age .
But there 's so many poor folk to be take care of , we do n't get much of a chance , for we ai n't the beggin ' sort , '' say Joe , with a wistful look at the wintry world outside , a if it would be good to lie quiet under the snow , than to drag out his last painful year , friendless and forgotten , in some refuge of the poor .
`` Some kind people have be talk of a home for soldier , and I hope the plan will be carry out .
It will take time ; but , if it come to pass , you shall be one of the first men to enter that home , Joe , if I can get you there . ''
`` That sound mighty cheerin ' and comfortable , thanky , ma'am .
Idleness be dreadful tryin ' to me , and I 'd rather wear out than rust out ; so I guess I can weather it a spell longer .
But it will be pleasant to look forrard to a snug harbor bymeby .
I feel a sight well just hearin ' tell about it . ''
He certainly look so , faint a the hope be ; for the melancholy eye brighten a if they already saw a happier refuge in the future than almshouse , hospital , or grave , and , when he trudge away upon my errand , he go as briskly a if every step take him nearer to the promise home .
After that day it be all up with Bob , for I tell my neighbor Joe 's story , and we keep him trot busily , add little gift , and take the sort of interest in him that comfort the lonely fellow , and make him feel that he have not outlive his usefulness .
I never look out when he be at his post that he do not smile back at me ; I never pass him in the street that the red cap be not touch with a military flourish ; and , when any of u beckon to him , no twinge of rheumatism be too sharp to keep him from hurry to do our errand , a if he have Mercury 's winged foot .
Now and then he come in for a chat , and always ask how the Soldiers ' Home be prosper ; express his opinion that `` Boston be the charitable city under the sun , and he be sure he and his mate would be take care of somehow . ''
When we part in the spring , I tell him thing look hopeful , bid him be ready for a good long rest as soon a the hospitable door be open , and leave him nod cheerfully .
IV But in the autumn I look in vain for Joe .
The slate be in it old place , and a messenger come and go on his beat ; but a strange face be under the red cap , and this man have two arm and one eye .
I ask for Collins , but the new-comer have only a vague idea that he be dead ; and the same answer be give me at headquarters , though none of the busy people seem to know when or where he die .
So I mourn for Joe , and felt that it be very hard he could not have live to enjoy the promised refuge ; for , rely upon the charity that never fail , the Home be an actual fact now , just begin it beneficent career .
People be wake up to this duty , money be come in , meeting be be hold , and already a few poor fellow be in the refuge , feel themselves no longer pauper , but invalid soldier honorably support by the State they have serve .
Talking it over one day with a friend , who spend her life work for the Associated Charities , she say , -- `` By the way , there be a man board with one of my poor woman , who ought to be get into the Home , if he will go .
I do n't know much about him , except that he be in the army , have be very ill with rheumatic fever , and be friendless .
I ask Mrs. Flanagin how she manage to keep him , and she say she have help while he be sick , and now he be able to hobble about , he take care of the child , so she be able to go out to work .
He wo n't go to his own town , because there be nothing for him there but the almshouse , and he dread a hospital ; so struggle along , try to earn his bread tend baby with his one arm .
A sad case , and in your line ; I wish you 'd look into it . ''
`` That sound like my Joe , one arm and all .
I 'll go and see him ; I 've a weakness for soldier , sick or well . ''
I go , and never shall forget the pathetic little tableau I saw a I open Mrs. Flanagin 's dingy door ; for she be out , and no one heard my tap .
The room be redolent of suds , and in a grove of damp clothes hang on line sit a man with a cry baby lay across his lap , while he feed three small child stand at his knee with bread and molasses .
How he manage with one arm to keep the baby from squirm on to the floor , the plate from upset , and to fee the hungry urchin who stand in a row with open mouth , like young bird , be past my comprehension .
But he do , trot baby gently , deal out sweet morsel patiently , and whistle to himself , a if to beguile his labor cheerfully .
The broad back , the long leg , the faded coat , the low whistle be all familiar ; and , dodge a wet sheet , I face the man to find it be indeed my Joe !
A mere shadow of his former self , after month of suffer that have cripple him for life , but brave and patient still ; try to help himself , and not ask aid though bring so low .
For an instant I could not speak to him , and , encumber with baby , dish , spoon , and child , he could only stare at me with a sudden brightening of the altered face that make it full of welcome before a word be utter .
`` They tell me you be dead , and I only heard of you by accident , not know I should find my old friend alive , but not well , I 'm afraid ? ''
`` There ai n't much left of me but bone and pain , ma'am .
I 'm powerful glad to see you all the same .
Dust off a chair , Patsey , and let the lady set down .
You go in the corner , and take turn lickin ' the dish , while I see company , '' say Joe , disband his small troop , and shoulder the baby a if present arm in honor of his guest .
`` Why do n't you let me know how sick you be ?
And how come they to think you dead ? ''
I ask , a he festoon the wet linen out of the way , and prepare to enjoy himself a best he could .
`` I do send once , when thing be at the wust ; but you have n't get back , and then somehow I think I be goin ' to be muster out for good , and so would n't trouble nobody .
But my order ai n't come yet , and I be do the fust thing that come along .
It ai n't much , but the good soul stand by me , and I ai n't ashamed to pay my debt this way , sence I ca n't do it in no other ; '' and Joe cradle the chubby baby in his one arm as tenderly a if it have be his own , though little Biddy be not an inviting infant .
`` That be very beautiful and right , Joe , and I honor you for it ; but you be not mean to tend baby , so sing your last lullaby , and be ready to go to the Home as soon a I can get you there . ''
`` Really , ma'am ?
I use to lay and kind of dream about it when I could n't stir without yellin ' out ; but I never think it would ever come to happen .
I see a piece in the paper describe it , and it sound dreadful nice .
Should n't wonder if I find some of my mate there .
They be a good lot , and deservin ' of all that could be do for 'em , '' say Joe , trot the baby briskly , a if the prospect excite him , as well it might , for the change from that damp nursery to the comfortable quarter prepare for him would be like go from Purgatory to Paradise .
`` I do n't wonder you do n't get well live in such a place , Joe .
You should have go home to Woolwich , and let your friend help you , '' I say , feel provoke with him for hide himself .
`` No , ma'am ! ''
he answer , with a look I never shall forget , it be so full of mingled patience , pride , and pain .
`` I have n't a relation in the world but a couple of poor old aunt , and they could n't do anything for me .
As for ask help of folk I use to know , I could n't do it ; and if you think I 'd go to Lucindy , though she be wal off , you do n't know Joe Collins .
I 'd die fust !
If she be poor and I rich , I 'd do for her like a brother ; but I could n't ask no favor of her , not if I beg my vittles in the street , or starve .
I forgive , but I do n't forgit in a hurry ; and the woman that stood by me when I be down be the woman I believe in , and can take my bread from without shame .
Hooray for Biddy Flanagin !
God bless her ! ''
and , a if to find a vent for the emotion that fill his eye with grateful tear , Joe lead off the cheer , which the child shrilly echo , and I join heartily .
`` I shall come for you in a few day ; so cuddle the baby and make much of the child before you part .
It wo n't take you long to pack up , will it ? ''
I ask , a we subside with a general laugh .
`` I reckon not a I do n't own any clothes but what I set in , except a couple of old shirt and them sock .
My hat 's stoppin ' up the winder , and my old coat be my bed-cover .
I 'm awful shabby , ma'am , and that 's one reason I do n't go out more .
I can hobble some , but I ai n't get use to bein ' a scarecrow yet , '' and Joe glance from the hose without heel that hang on the line to the ragged suit he wear , with a resigned expression that make me long to rush out and buy up half the content of Oak Hall on the spot .
Curbing this wild impulse I presently depart with promise of speedy transportation for Joe , and unlimited orange to assuage the pang of part for the young Flanagins , who escort me to the door , while Joe wave the baby like a triumphal banner till I get round the corner .
There be such a beautiful absence of red tape about the new institution that it only need a word in the right ear to set thing go ; and then , with a long pull , a strong pull , and a pull all together , Joe Collins be take up and safely land in the Home he so much need and so well deserve .
A happy man or a more grateful one it would be hard to find , and if a visitor want an enthusiastic guide about the place , Joe be the one to take , for all be comfort , sunshine , and good-will to him ; and he unconsciously show how great the need of this refuge be , a he hobble about on his lame foot , point out it beauty , convenience , and delight with his one arm , while his face shine , and his voice quaver a little a he say gratefully , -- `` The State do n't forget u , you see , and this be a Home wuth havin ' .
Long life to it ! ''
WHAT THE BELLS SAW AND SAID -LSB- Written in 1867 . -RSB-
`` Bells ring others to church , but go not in themselves . ''
No one saw the spirit of the bell up there in the old steeple at midnight on Christmas Eve .
Six quaint figure , each wrap in a shadowy cloak and wear a bell-shaped cap .
All be gray-headed , for they be among the old bell-spirits of the city , and `` the light of other day '' shone in their thoughtful eye .
Silently they sit , look down on the snow-covered roof glittering in the moonlight , and the quiet street desert by all but the watchman on their chilly round , and such poor soul a wandered shelterless in the winter night .
Presently one of the spirit say , in a tone , which , low a it be , fill the belfry with reverberating echo , -- `` Well , brother , be your report ready of the year that now lie die ? ''
All bow their head , and one of the old answer in a sonorous voice : -- `` My report be n't all I could wish .
You know I look down on the commercial part of our city and have fine opportunity for see what go on there .
It 's my business to watch the business men , and upon my word I 'm heartily ashamed of them sometimes .
During the war they do nobly , give their time and money , their son and self to the good cause , and I be proud of them .
But now too many of them have fall back into the old way , and their motto seem to be , ` Every one for himself , and the devil take the hindmost . '
Cheating , lie and steal be hard word , and I do n't mean to apply them to all who swarm about below there like ant on an ant-hill -- they have other name for these thing , but I 'm old-fashioned and use plain word .
There 's a deal too much dishonesty in the world , and business seem to have become a game of hazard in which luck , not labor , win the prize .
When I be young , men be year make moderate fortune , and be satisfy with them .
They build them on sure foundation , know how to enjoy them while they live , and to leave a good name behind them when they die .
`` Now it 's anything for money ; health , happiness , honor , life itself , be fling down on that great gaming-table , and they forget everything else in the excitement of success or the desperation of defeat .
Nobody seem satisfied either , for those who win have little time or taste to enjoy their prosperity , and those who lose have little courage or patience to support them in adversity .
They do n't even fail a they use to .
In my day when a merchant find himself embarrass he do n't ruin others in order to save himself , but honestly confess the truth , give up everything , and begin again .
But now-a-days after all manner of dishonorable shift there come a grand crash ; many suffer , but by some hocus-pocus the merchant save enough to retire upon and live comfortably here or abroad .
It 's very evident that honor and honesty do n't mean now what they use to mean in the day of old May , Higginson and Lawrence .
`` They preach below here , and very well too sometimes , for I often slide down the rope to peep and listen during service .
But , bless you !
they do n't seem to lay either sermon , psalm or prayer to heart , for while the minister be do his best , the congregation , tire with the breathless hurry of the week , sleep peacefully , calculate their chance for the morrow , or wonder which of their neighbor will lose or win in the great game .
Do n't tell me !
I 've see them do it , and if I dare I 'd have startle every soul of them with a rouse peal .
Ah , they do n't dream whose eye be on them , they never guess what secrets the telegraph wire tell a the message fly by , and little know what a report I give to the wind of heaven a I ring out above them morning , noon , and night . ''
And the old spirit shake his head till the tassel on his cap jangle like a little bell .
`` There be some , however , whom I love and honor , '' he say , in a benignant tone , `` who honestly earn their bread , who deserve all the success that come to them , and always keep a warm corner in their noble heart for those less blest than they .
These be the men who serve the city in time of peace , save it in time of war , deserve the high honor in it gift , and leave behind them a record that keep their memory green .
For such an one we lately toll a knell , my brother ; and a our united voice peal over the city , in all grateful heart , sweeter and more solemn than any chime , ring the word that make him so beloved , -- '' ` Treat our dead boy tenderly , and send them home to me . ' ''
He cease , and all the spirit reverently uncover their gray head a a strain of music float up from the sleep city and die among the star .
`` Like yours , my report be not satisfactory in all respect , '' begin the second spirit , who wear a very pointed cap and a finely ornamented cloak .
But , though his dress be fresh and youthful , his face be old , and he have nod several time during his brother 's speech .
`` My great affliction during the past year have be the terrible extravagance which prevail .
My post , a you know , be at the court end of the city , and I see all the fashionable vice and folly .
It be a marvel to me how so many of these immortal creature , with such opportunity for usefulness , self-improvement and genuine happiness can be content to go round and round in one narrow circle of unprofitable and unsatisfactory pursuit .
I do my best to warn them ; Sunday after Sunday I chime in their ear the beautiful old hymn that sweetly chide or cheer the heart that truly listen and believe ; Sunday after Sunday I look down on them a they pass in , hop to see that my word have not fall upon deaf ear ; and Sunday after Sunday they listen to word that should teach them much , yet seem to go by them like the wind .
They be tell to love their neighbor , yet too many hate him because he possess more of this world 's good or honor than they : they be tell that a rich man can not enter the kingdom of heaven , yet they go on lay up perishable wealth , and though often warn that moth and rust will corrupt , they fail to believe it till the worm that destroy enters and mar their own chapel of ease .
Being a spirit , I see below external splendor and find much poverty of heart and soul under the velvet and the ermine which should cover rich and royal nature .
Our city saint walk abroad in threadbare suit , and under quiet bonnet shine the eye that make sunshine in the shady place .
Often a I watch the glittering procession pass to and fro below me .
I wonder if , with all our progress , there be to-day a much real piety a in the time when our father , poorly clad , with weapon in one hand and Bible in the other , come weary distance to worship in the wilderness with fervent faith unquenched by danger , suffer and solitude .
`` Yet in spite of my fault-finding I love my child , a I call them , for all be not butterfly .
Many find wealth no temptation to forgetfulness of duty or hardness of heart .
Many give freely of their abundance , pity the poor , comfort the afflicted , and make our city love and honor in other land a in our own .
They have their care , loss , and heartache as well a the poor ; it be n't all sunshine with them , and they learn , poor soul , that '' ` Into each life some rain must fall , Some day must be dark and dreary . '
`` But I 've hope of them , and lately they have have a teacher so genial , so gifted , so well-beloved that all who listen to him must be good for the lesson of charity , good-will and cheerfulness which he bring home to them by the magic of tear and smile .
We know him , we love him , we always remember him a the year come round , and the blithest song our brazen tongue utter be a Christmas carol to the Father of ` The Chimes ! ' ''
As the spirit speak his voice grow cheery , his old face shone , and in a burst of hearty enthusiasm he fling up his cap and cheer like a boy .
So do the others , and a the fairy shout echo through the belfry a troop of shadowy figure , with face lovely or grotesque , tragical or gay , sail by on the wing of the wintry wind and wave their hand to the spirit of the bell .
As the excitement subside and the spirit reseat themselves , look ten year young for that burst , another spoke .
A venerable brother in a dingy mantle , with a tuneful voice , and eye that seem to have grow sad with look on much misery .
`` He love the poor , the man we 've just hurrah for , and he make others love and remember them , bless him ! ''
say the spirit .
`` I hope he 'll touch the heart of those who listen to him here and beguile them to open their hand to my unhappy child over yonder .
If I could set some of the forlorn soul in my parish beside the happier creature who weep over imaginary woe a they be paint by his eloquent lip , that brilliant scene would be good than any sermon .
Day and night I look down on life a full of sin , self-sacrifice and suffer a any in those famous book .
Day and night I try to comfort the poor by my cheery voice , and to make their want know by proclaim them with all my might .
But people seem to be so intent on business , pleasure or home duty that they have no time to hear and answer my appeal .
There 's a deal of charity in this good city , and when the people do wake up they work with a will ; but I ca n't help think that if some of the money lavish on luxury be spend on necessary for the poor , there would be few tragedy like that which end yesterday .
It 's a short story , easy to tell , though long and hard to live ; listen to it .
`` Down yonder in the garret of one of the squalid house at the foot of my tower , a little girl have live for a year , fight silently and single-handed a good fight against poverty and sin .
I saw her when she first come , a hopeful , cheerful , brave-hearted little soul , alone , yet not afraid .
She use to sit all day sew at her window , and her lamp burnt far into the night , for she be very poor , and all she earn would barely give her food and shelter .
I watch her fee the dove , who seem to be her only friend ; she never forget them , and daily give them the few crumb that fell from her meagre table .
But there be no kind hand to fee and foster the little human dove , and so she starve .
`` For a while she work bravely , but the poor three dollar a week would not clothe and fee and warm her , though the thing her busy finger make sell for enough to keep her comfortably if she have receive it .
I saw the pretty color fade from her cheek ; her eye grow hollow , her voice lose it cheery ring , her step it elasticity , and her face begin to wear the haggard , anxious look that make it youth doubly pathetic .
Her poor little gown grow shabby , her shawl so thin she shiver when the pitiless wind smote her , and her foot be almost bare .
Rain and snow beat on the patient little figure go to and fro , each morning with hope and courage faintly shin , each evening with the shadow of despair gather darker round her .
It be a hard time for all , desperately hard for her , and in her poverty , sin and pleasure tempt her .
She resist , but a another bitter winter come she fear that in her misery she might yield , for body and soul be weaken now by the long struggle .
She know not where to turn for help ; there seem to be no place for her at any safe and happy fireside ; life 's hard aspect daunt her , and she turn to death , say confidingly , ` Take me while I 'm innocent and not afraid to go . '
`` I saw it all !
I saw how she sell everything that would bring money and pay her little debt to the utmost penny ; how she set her poor room in order for the last time ; how she tenderly bid the dove good-by , and lay down on her bed to die .
At nine o'clock last night a my bell rang over the city , I try to tell what be go on in the garret where the light be die out so fast .
I cry to them with all my strength .
-- '' ` Kind soul , below there !
a fellow-creature be perish for lack of charity !
Oh , help her before it be too late !
Mothers , with little daughter on your knee , stretch out your hand and take her in !
Happy woman , in the safe shelter of home , think of her desolation !
Rich men , who grind the face of the poor , remember that this soul will one day be require of you !
Dear Lord , let not this little sparrow fall to the ground !
Help , Christian men and woman , in the name of Him whose birthday bless the world ! '
`` Ah me !
I ring , and clash , and cry in vain .
The passer-by only say , a they hurry home , laden with Christmas cheer : ` The old bell be merry to-night , a it should be at this blithe season , bless it ! '
`` As the clock strike ten , the poor child lay down , say , a she drink the last bitter draught life could give her , ` It 's very cold , but soon I shall not feel it ; ' and with her quiet eye fix on the cross that glimmer in the moonlight above me , she lay wait for the sleep that need no lullaby .
`` As the clock strike eleven , pain and poverty for her be over .
It be bitter cold , but she no longer felt it .
She lay serenely sleep , with tired heart and hand , at rest forever .
As the clock strike twelve , the dear Lord remember her , and with fatherly hand lead her into the home where there be room for all .
To-day I ring her knell , and though my heart be heavy , yet my soul be glad ; for in spite of all her human woe and weakness , I be sure that little girl will keep a joyful Christmas up in heaven . ''
In the silence which the spirit for a moment kept , a breath of soft air than any from the snowy world below swept through the steeple and seem to whisper , `` Yes ! ''
`` Avast there !
fond a I be of salt water , I do n't like this kind , '' cry the breezy voice of the fourth spirit , who have a tiny ship instead of a tassel on his cap , and who wipe his wet eye with the sleeve of his rough blue cloak .
`` It wo n't take me long to spin my yarn ; for thing be pretty taut and ship-shape aboard our craft .
Captain Taylor be an experienced sailor , and have bring many a ship safely into port in spite of wind and tide , and the devil 's own whirlpool and hurricane .
If you want to see earnestness come aboard some Sunday when the Captain 's on the quarter-deck , and take an observation .
No danger of fall asleep there , no more than there be up aloft , ` when the stormy wind do blow . '
Consciences get rake fore and aft , sin be blow clean out of the water , false color be haul down and true one run up to the masthead , and many an immortal soul be warn to steer off in time from the pirate , rock and quicksand of temptation .
He 's a regular revolving light , be the Captain , -- a beacon always burn and say plainly , ` Here be life-boats , ready to put off in all weather and bring the shipwreck into quiet water . '
He come but seldom now , be lay up in the home dock , tranquilly wait till his turn come to go out with the tide and safely ride at anchor in the great harbor of the Lord .
Our crew vary a good deal .
Some of 'em have rather rough voyage , and come into port pretty well batter ; land-sharks fall foul of a good many , and do a deal of damage ; but most of 'em carry brave and tender heart under the blue jacket , for their rough nurse , the sea , manage to keep something of the child alive in the gray old tar that make the world his picture-book .
We try to supply 'em with life-preservers while at sea , and make 'em feel sure of a hearty welcome when ashore , and I believe the year '67 will sail away into eternity with a satisfactory cargo .
Brother North-End make me pipe my eye ; so I 'll make him laugh to pay for it , by tell a clerical joke I hear the other day .
Bellows do n't make it , though he might have do so , a he 's a connection of ours , and know how to use his tongue as well a any of u .
Speaking of the bell of a certain town , a reverend gentleman affirm that each bell utter an appropriate remark so plainly , that the word be audible to all .
The Baptist bell cry , briskly , ` Come up and be dip !
come up and be dip ! '
The Episcopal bell slowly say , ` Apos-tol-ic suc-cess-ion !
apos-tol-ic suc-cess-ion ! '
The Orthodox bell solemnly pronounce , ` Eternal damnation !
eternal damnation ! '
and the Methodist shout , invitingly , ` Room for all !
room for all ! ' ''
As the spirit imitate the various call , a only a jovial bell-sprite could , the others give him a chime of laughter , and vow they would each adopt some tuneful summons , which should reach human ear and draw human foot more willingly to church .
`` Faith , brother , you 've keep your word and get the laugh out of u , '' cry a stout , sleek spirit , with a kindly face , and a row of little saint round his cap and a rosary at his side .
`` It 's very well we be do this year ; the cathedral be full , the flock increase , and the true faith hold it own entirely .
Ye may shake your head if you will and fear there 'll be trouble , but I doubt it .
We 've warm heart of our own , and the best of u do n't forget that when we be starve , America -- the saint bless the jewel !
-- send u bread ; when we be die for lack of work , America open her arm and take u in , and now help u to build church , home and school by give u a share of the rich all men work for and win .
It 's a generous nation ye be , and a brave one , and we show our gratitude by fight for ye in the day of trouble and give ye our Phil , and many another broth of a boy .
The land be wide enough for u both , and while we work and fight and grow together , each may learn something from the other .
I 'm free to confess that your religion look a bit cold and hard to me , even here in the good city where each man may ride his own hobby to death , and hoot at his neighbor as much a he will .
You seem to keep your piety shut up all the week in your bare , white church , and only let it out on Sundays , just a trifle musty with disuse .
You set your rich , warm and soft to the fore , and leave the poor shivering at the door .
You give your people bare wall to look upon , common-place music to listen to , dull sermon to put them asleep , and then wonder why they stay away , or take no interest when they come .
`` We leave our door open day and night ; our lamp be always burn , and we may come into our Father 's house at any hour .
We let rich and poor kneel together , all be equal there .
With u abroad you 'll see prince and peasant side by side , school-boy and bishop , market-woman and noble lady , saint and sinner , pray to the Holy Mary , whose motherly arm be open to high and low .
We make our church invite with immortal music , picture by the world 's great master , and rites that be splendid symbol of the faith we hold .
Call it mummery if ye like , but let me ask you why so many of your sheep stray into our fold ?
It 's because they miss the warmth , the hearty , the maternal tenderness which all soul love and long for , and fail to find in your stern .
Puritanical belief .
By Saint Peter !
I 've see many a lukewarm worshipper , who for year have nod in your cushioned pew , wake and glow with something akin to genuine piety while kneel on the stone pavement of one of our cathedral , with Raphael 's angel before his eye , with strain of magnificent music in his ear , and all about him , in shape of power or beauty , the saint and martyr who have save the world , and whose presence inspire him to follow their divine example .
It 's not complain of ye I be , but just remind ye that men be but child after all , and need more tempting to virtue than they do to vice , which last come easy to 'em since the Fall .
Do your best in your own way to get the poor soul into bliss , and good luck to ye .
But remember , there 's room in the Holy Mother Church for all , and when your own priest send ye to the divil , come straight to u and we 'll take ye in . ''
`` A truly Catholic welcome , bull and all , '' say the sixth spirit , who , in spite of his old-fashioned garment , have a youthful face , earnest , fearless eye , and an energetic voice that wake the echo with it vigorous tone .
`` I 've a hopeful report , brother , for the reform of the day be wheel into rank and marching on .
The war be n't over nor rebeldom conquer yet , but the Old Guard have be ` up and at 'em ' through the year .
There have be some hard fighting , river of ink have flow , and the Washington dawdler have signalize themselves by a ` masterly inactivity . '
The political campaign have be an anxious one ; some of the leader have desert ; some be muster out ; some have fall gallantly , and a yet have receive no monument .
But at the Grand Review the Cross of the Legion of Honor will surely shine on many a brave breast that win no decoration but it virtue here ; for the world 's fanatic make heaven 's hero , poet say .
`` The flock of Nightingales that fly South during the ` winter of our discontent ' be all at home again , some here and some in Heaven .
But the music of their womanly heroism still linger in the nation 's memory , and make a tender minor-chord in the battle-hymn of freedom .
`` The reform in literature be n't as vigorous a I could wish ; but a sharp attack of mental and moral dyspepsia will soon teach our people that French confectionery and the bad pastry of Wood , Bracdon , Yates & Co. be not the best diet for the rise generation .
`` Speaking of the rise generation remind me of the school .
They be do well ; they always be , and we be justly proud of them .
There may be a slight tendency toward place too much value upon book-learning ; too little upon home culture .
Our girl be acknowledge to be uncommonly pretty , witty and wise , but some of u wish they have more health and less excitement , more domestic accomplishment and few ology and ism , and be content with simple pleasure and the old-fashioned virtue , and not quite so fond of the fast , frivolous life that make them old so soon .
I be fond of our girl and boy .
I love to ring for their christening and marriage , to toll proudly for the brave lad in blue , and tenderly for the innocent creature whose seat be empty under my old roof .
I want to see them anxious to make Young America a model of virtue , strength and beauty , and I believe they will in time .
`` There have be some important revival in religion ; for the world wo n't stand still , and we must keep pace or be leave behind to fossilize .
A free nation must have a religion broad enough to embrace all mankind , deep enough to fathom and fill the human soul , high enough to reach the source of all love and wisdom , and pure enough to satisfy the wise and the best .
Alarm bell have be ring , anathemas pronounce , and Christians , forgetful of their creed , have abuse one another heartily .
But the truth always triumphs in the end , and whoever sincerely believe , work and wait for it , by whatever name he call it , will surely find his own faith bless to him in proportion to his charity for the faith of others .
`` But look !
-- the first red streak of dawn be in the East .
Our vigil be over , and we must fly home to welcome in the holiday .
Before we part , join with me , brother , in resolve that through the coming year we will with all our heart and tongue , -- '' ` Ring out the old , ring in the new , Ring out the false , ring in the true ; Ring in the valiant man and free , Ring in the Christ that be to be . ' ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Little_Men.txt.out
LITTLE MEN LIFE AT PLUMFIELD WITH JO 'S BOYS CHAPTER I. NAT `` Please , sir , be this Plumfield ? ''
ask a ragged boy of the man who open the great gate at which the omnibus leave him .
`` Yes .
Who send you ? ''
`` Mr. Laurence .
I have get a letter for the lady . ''
`` All right ; go up to the house , and give it to her ; she 'll see to you , little chap . ''
The man speak pleasantly , and the boy go on , feel much cheer by the word .
Through the soft spring rain that fell on sprout grass and budding tree , Nat saw a large square house before him a hospitable-looking house , with an old-fashioned porch , wide step , and light shin in many window .
Neither curtain nor shutter hide the cheerful glimmer ; and , pause a moment before he ring , Nat saw many little shadow dance on the wall , hear the pleasant hum of young voice , and felt that it be hardly possible that the light and warmth and comfort within could be for a homeless `` little chap '' like him .
`` I hope the lady will see to me , '' he think , and give a timid rap with the great bronze knocker , which be a jovial griffin 's head .
A rosy-faced servant-maid open the door , and smile a she take the letter which he silently offer .
She seem use to receive strange boy , for she point to a seat in the hall , and say , with a nod : `` Sit there and drip on the mat a bit , while I take this in to missis . ''
Nat find plenty to amuse him while he wait , and star about him curiously , enjoy the view , yet glad to do so unobserved in the dusky recess by the door .
The house seem swarm with boy , who be beguile the rainy twilight with all sort of amusement .
There be boy everywhere , `` up-stairs and down-stairs and in the lady 's chamber , '' apparently , for various open door show pleasant group of big boy , little boy , and middle-sized boy in all stage of even relaxation , not to say effervescence .
Two large room on the right be evidently schoolroom , for desk , map , blackboard , and book be scatter about .
An open fire burn on the hearth , and several indolent lad lay on their back before it , discuss a new cricket-ground , with such animation that their boot wave in the air .
A tall youth be practise on the flute in one corner , quite undisturbed by the racket all about him .
Two or three others be jump over the desk , pause , now and then , to get their breath and laugh at the droll sketch of a little wag who be caricature the whole household on a blackboard .
In the room on the left a long supper-table be see , set forth with great pitcher of new milk , pile of brown and white bread , and perfect stack of the shiny gingerbread so dear to boyish soul .
A flavor of toast be in the air , also suggestion of baked apple , very tantalize to one hungry little nose and stomach .
The hall , however , present the most inviting prospect of all , for a brisk game of tag be go on in the upper entry .
One landing be devote to marble , the other to checker , while the stair be occupy by a boy reading , a girl sing a lullaby to her doll , two puppy , a kitten , and a constant succession of small boy slide down the banister , to the great detriment of their clothes and danger to their limb .
So absorbed do Nat become in this exciting race , that he venture far and far out of his corner ; and when one very lively boy come down so swiftly that he could not stop himself , but fell off the banister , with a crash that would have break any head but one render nearly as hard a a cannon-ball by eleven year of constant bumping , Nat forget himself , and run up to the fall rider , expect to find him half-dead .
The boy , however , only wink rapidly for a second , then lay calmly look up at the new face with a surprised , `` Hullo ! ''
`` Hullo ! ''
return Nat , not know what else to say , and think that form of reply both brief and easy .
`` Are you a new boy ? ''
ask the recumbent youth , without stir .
`` Do n't know yet . ''
`` What 's your name ? ''
`` Nat Blake . ''
`` Mine 's Tommy Bangs .
Come up and have a go , will you ? ''
and Tommy get upon his leg like one suddenly remember the duty of hospitality .
`` Guess I wo n't , till I see whether I 'm go to stay or not , '' return Nat , feel the desire to stay increase every moment .
`` I say , Demi , here 's a new one .
Come and see to him ; '' and the lively Thomas return to his sport with unabated relish .
At his call , the boy reading on the stair look up with a pair of big brown eye , and after an instant 's pause , a if a little shy , he put the book under his arm , and come soberly down to greet the new-comer , who find something very attractive in the pleasant face of this slender , mild-eyed boy .
`` Have you see Aunt Jo ? ''
he ask , a if that be some sort of important ceremony .
`` I have n't see anybody yet but you boys ; I 'm wait , '' answer Nat .
`` Did Uncle Laurie send you ? ''
proceed Demi , politely , but gravely .
`` Mr. Laurence do . ''
`` He be Uncle Laurie ; and he always send nice boy . ''
Nat look gratify at the remark , and smile , in a way that make his thin face very pleasant .
He do not know what to say next , so the two stand star at one another in friendly silence , till the little girl come up with her doll in her arm .
She be very like Demi , only not so tall , and have a rounder , rosy face , and blue eye .
`` This be my sister , Daisy , '' announce Demi , a if present a rare and precious creature .
The child nod to one another ; and the little girl 's face dimple with pleasure , a she say affably : `` I hope you 'll stay .
We have such good time here ; do n't we , Demi ? ''
`` Of course , we do : that 's what Aunt Jo have Plumfield for . ''
`` It seem a very nice place indeed , '' observe Nat , feel that he must respond to these amiable young person .
`` It 's the nice place in the world , be n't it , Demi ? ''
say Daisy , who evidently regard her brother a authority on all subject .
`` No , I think Greenland , where the iceberg and seal be , be more interesting .
But I 'm fond of Plumfield , and it be a very nice place to be in , '' return Demi , who be interested just now in a book on Greenland .
He be about to offer to show Nat the picture and explain them , when the servant return , say with a nod toward the parlor-door : `` All right ; you be to stop . ''
`` I 'm glad ; now come to Aunt Jo . ''
And Daisy take him by the hand with a pretty protect air , which make Nat feel at home at once .
Demi return to his beloved book , while his sister lead the new-comer into a back room , where a stout gentleman be frolic with two little boy on the sofa , and a thin lady be just finish the letter which she seem to have be re-reading .
`` Here he be , aunty ! ''
cry Daisy .
`` So this be my new boy ?
I be glad to see you , my dear , and hope you 'll be happy here , '' say the lady , draw him to her , and stroke back the hair from his forehead with a kind hand and a motherly look , which make Nat 's lonely little heart yearn toward her .
She be not at all handsome , but she have a merry sort of face that never seem to have forget certain childish way and look , any more than her voice and manner have ; and these thing , hard to describe but very plain to see and feel , make her a genial , comfortable kind of person , easy to get on with , and generally `` jolly , '' a boy would say .
She saw the little tremble of Nat 's lip a she smooth his hair , and her keen eye grow soft , but she only draw the shabby figure nearer and say , laughing : `` I be Mother Bhaer , that gentleman be Father Bhaer , and these be the two little Bhaers .
Come here , boy , and see Nat . ''
The three wrestler obey at once ; and the stout man , with a chubby child on each shoulder , come up to welcome the new boy .
Rob and Teddy merely grin at him , but Mr. Bhaer shake hand , and point to a low chair near the fire , say , in a cordial voice : `` There be a place all ready for thee , my son ; sit down and dry thy wet foot at once . ''
`` Wet ?
So they be !
My dear , off with your shoe this minute , and I 'll have some dry thing ready for you in a jiffy , '' cry Mrs. Bhaer , bustle about so energetically that Nat find himself in the cosy little chair , with dry sock and warm slipper on his foot , before he would have have time to say Jack Robinson , if he have want to try .
He say `` Thank you , ma'am , '' instead ; and say it so gratefully that Mrs. Bhaer 's eye grow soft again , and she say something merry , because she felt so tender , which be a way she have .
`` There be Tommy Bangs ' slipper ; but he never will remember to put them on in the house ; so he shall not have them .
They be too big ; but that 's all the good ; you ca n't run away from u so fast a if they fit . ''
`` I do n't want to run away , ma'am . ''
And Nat spread his grimy little hand before the comfortable blaze , with a long sigh of satisfaction .
`` That 's good !
Now I be go to toast you well , and try to get rid of that ugly cough .
How long have you have it , dear ? ''
ask Mrs. Bhaer , a she rummage in her big basket for a strip of flannel .
`` All winter .
I get cold , and it would n't get good , somehow . ''
`` No wonder , live in that damp cellar with hardly a rag to his poor dear back ! ''
say Mrs. Bhaer , in a low tone to her husband , who be look at the boy with a skillful pair of eye that mark the thin temple and feverish lip , as well a the hoarse voice and frequent fit of cough that shake the bent shoulder under the patched jacket .
`` Robin , my man , trot up to Nursey , and tell her to give thee the cough-bottle and the liniment , '' say Mr. Bhaer , after his eye have exchange telegram with his wife 's .
Nat look a little anxious at the preparation , but forget his fear in a hearty laugh , when Mrs. Bhaer whisper to him , with a droll look : `` Hear my rogue Teddy try to cough .
The syrup I 'm go to give you have honey in it ; and he want some . ''
Little Ted be red in the face with his exertion by the time the bottle come , and be allow to suck the spoon after Nat have manfully take a dose and have the bit of flannel put about his throat .
These first step toward a cure be hardly complete when a great bell rang , and a loud tramping through the hall announce supper .
Bashful Nat quake at the thought of meet many strange boy , but Mrs. Bhaer hold out her hand to him , and Rob say , patronizingly , `` Do n't be ` fraid ; I 'll take care of you . ''
Twelve boy , six on a side , stand behind their chair , prance with impatience to begin , while the tall flute-playing youth be try to curb their ardor .
But no one sit down till Mrs. Bhaer be in her place behind the teapot , with Teddy on her left , and Nat on her right .
`` This be our new boy , Nat Blake .
After supper you can say how do you do ?
Gently , boy , gently . ''
As she speak every one star at Nat , and then whisk into their seat , try to be orderly and fail utterly .
The Bhaers do their best to have the lad behave well at meal time , and generally succeed pretty well , for their rule be few and sensible , and the boy , know that they try to make thing easy and happy , do their best to obey .
But there be time when hungry boy can not be repress without real cruelty , and Saturday evening , after a half-holiday , be one of those time .
`` Dear little soul , do let them have one day in which they can howl and racket and frolic to their heart ' content .
A holiday be n't a holiday without plenty of freedom and fun ; and they shall have full swing once a week , '' Mrs. Bhaer use to say , when prim people wonder why banister-sliding , pillow-fights , and all manner of jovial game be allow under the once decorous roof of Plumfield .
It do seem at time a if the aforesaid roof be in danger of fly off , but it never do , for a word from Father Bhaer could at any time produce a lull , and the lad have learn that liberty must not be abuse .
So , in spite of many dark prediction , the school flourish , and manner and moral be insinuate , without the pupil exactly know how it be do .
Nat find himself very well off behind the tall pitcher , with Tommy Bangs just around the corner , and Mrs. Bhaer close by to fill up plate and mug as fast a he could empty them .
`` Who be that boy next the girl down at the other end ? ''
whisper Nat to his young neighbor under cover of a general laugh .
`` That 's Demi Brooke .
Mr. Bhaer be his uncle . ''
`` What a queer name ! ''
`` His real name be John , but they call him Demi-John , because his father be John too .
That 's a joke , do n't you see ? ''
say Tommy , kindly explain .
Nat do not see , but politely smile , and ask , with interest : `` Is n't he a very nice boy ? ''
`` I bet you he be ; know lot and read like any thing . ''
`` Who be the fat one next him ? ''
`` Oh , that 's Stuffy Cole .
His name be George , but we call him Stuffy 'cause he eat so much .
The little fellow next Father Bhaer be his boy Rob , and then there 's big Franz his nephew ; he teach some , and kind of see to u . ''
`` He play the flute , do n't he ? ''
ask Nat a Tommy render himself speechless by put a whole baked apple into his mouth at one blow .
Tommy nod , and say , sooner than one would have imagine possible under the circumstance , `` Oh , do n't he , though ?
And we dance sometimes , and do gymnastics to music .
I like a drum myself , and mean to learn as soon a ever I can . ''
`` I like a fiddle best ; I can play one too , '' say Nat , get confidential on this attractive subject .
`` Can you ? ''
and Tommy star over the rim of his mug with round eye , full of interest .
`` Mr. Bhaer 's get an old fiddle , and he 'll let you play on it if you want to . ''
`` Could I ?
Oh , I would like it ever so much .
You see , I use to go round fiddle with my father , and another man , till he die . ''
`` Was n't that fun ? ''
cry Tommy , much impress .
`` No , it be horrid ; so cold in winter , and hot in summer .
And I get tire ; and they be cross sometimes ; and I do n't get enough to eat . ''
Nat pause to take a generous bite of gingerbread , a if to assure himself that the hard time be over ; and then he add regretfully : `` But I do love my little fiddle , and I miss it .
Nicolo take it away when father die , and would n't have me any longer , 'cause I be sick . ''
`` You 'll belong to the band if you play good .
See if you do n't . ''
`` Do you have a band here ? ''
Nat 's eye sparkle .
`` Guess we do ; a jolly band , all boy ; and they have concert and thing .
You just see what happen to-morrow night . ''
After this pleasantly exciting remark , Tommy return to his supper , and Nat sink into a blissful reverie over his full plate .
Mrs. Bhaer have hear all they say , while apparently absorb in fill mug , and oversee little Ted , who be so sleepy that he put his spoon in his eye , nod like a rosy poppy , and finally fell fast asleep , with his cheek pillow on a soft bun .
Mrs. Bhaer have put Nat next to Tommy , because that roly-poly boy have a frank and social way with him , very attractive to shy person .
Nat felt this , and have make several small confidence during supper , which give Mrs. Bhaer the key to the new boy 's character , good than if she have talk to him herself .
In the letter which Mr. Laurence have send with Nat , he have say : `` DEAR JO : Here be a case after your own heart .
This poor lad be an orphan now , sick and friendless .
He have be a street-musician ; and I find him in a cellar , mourn for his dead father , and his lose violin .
I think there be something in him , and have a fancy that between u we may give this little man a lift .
You cure his overtasked body , Fritz help his neglected mind , and when he be ready I 'll see if he be a genius or only a boy with a talent which may earn his bread for him .
Give him a trial , for the sake of your own boy , `` TEDDY . ''
`` Of course we will ! ''
cried Mrs. Bhaer , a she read the letter ; and when she saw Nat she felt at once that , whether he be a genius or not , here be a lonely , sick boy who need just what she love to give , a home and motherly care .
Both she and Mr. Bhaer observe him quietly ; and in spite of ragged clothes , awkward manner , and a dirty face , they saw much about Nat that please them .
He be a thin , pale boy , of twelve , with blue eye , and a good forehead under the rough , neglected hair ; an anxious , scared face , at time , a if he expect hard word , or blow ; and a sensitive mouth that tremble when a kind glance fell on him ; while a gentle speech call up a look of gratitude , very sweet to see .
`` Bless the poor dear , he shall fiddle all day long if he like , '' say Mrs. Bhaer to herself , a she saw the eager , happy expression on his face when Tommy talk of the band .
So , after supper , when the lad flock into the schoolroom for more `` high jinks , '' Mrs. Jo appear with a violin in her hand , and after a word with her husband , go to Nat , who sit in a corner watch the scene with intense interest .
`` Now , my lad , give u a little tune .
We want a violin in our band , and I think you will do it nicely . ''
She expect that he would hesitate ; but he seize the old fiddle at once , and handle it with such love care , it be plain to see that music be his passion .
`` I 'll do the best I can , ma'am , '' be all he say ; and then draw the bow across the string , a if eager to hear the dear note again .
There be a great clatter in the room , but a if deaf to any sound but those he make , Nat play softly to himself , forget every thing in his delight .
It be only a simple Negro melody , such a street-musicians play , but it catch the ear of the boy at once , and silence them , till they stand listen with surprise and pleasure .
Gradually they get nearer and nearer , and Mr. Bhaer come up to watch the boy ; for , a if he be in his element now , Nat play away and never mind any one , while his eye shone , his cheek redden , and his thin finger fly , a he hug the old fiddle and make it speak to all their heart the language that he love .
A hearty round of applause reward him good than a shower of penny , when he stop and glance about him , a if to say : `` I 've do my best ; please like it . ''
`` I say , you do that first rate , '' cry Tommy , who consider Nat his protege .
`` You shall be the first fiddle in my band , '' add Franz , with an approve smile .
Mrs. Bhaer whisper to her husband : `` Teddy be right : there 's something in the child . ''
And Mr. Bhaer nod his head emphatically , a he clap Nat on the shoulder , say , heartily : `` You play well , my son .
Come now and play something which we can sing . ''
It be the proud , happy minute of the poor boy 's life when he be lead to the place of honor by the piano , and the lad gather round , never heed his poor clothes , but eye him respectfully and wait eagerly to hear him play again .
They choose a song he know ; and after one or two false start they get go , and violin , flute , and piano lead a chorus of boyish voice that make the old roof ring again .
It be too much for Nat , more feeble than he know ; and a the final shout die away , his face begin to work , he drop the fiddle , and turn to the wall sob like a little child .
`` My dear , what be it ? ''
ask Mrs. Bhaer , who have be sing with all her might , and try to keep little Rob from beat time with his boot .
`` You be all so kind and it 's so beautiful I ca n't help it , '' sob Nat , cough till he be breathless .
`` Come with me , dear ; you must go to bed and rest ; you be wear out , and this be too noisy a place for you , '' whisper Mrs. Bhaer ; and take him away to her own parlor , where she let him cry himself quiet .
Then she win him to tell her all his trouble , and listen to the little story with tear in her own eye , though it be not a new one to her .
`` My child , you have get a father and a mother now , and this be home .
Do n't think of those sad time any more , but get well and happy ; and be sure you shall never suffer again , if we can help it .
This place be make for all sort of boy to have a good time in , and to learn how to help themselves and be useful men , I hope .
You shall have as much music a you want , only you must get strong first .
Now come up to Nursey and have a bath , and then go to bed , and to-morrow we will lay some nice little plan together . ''
Nat hold her hand fast in his , but have not a word to say , and let his grateful eye speak for him , a Mrs. Bhaer lead him up to a big room , where they find a stout German woman with a face so round and cheery that it look like a sort of sun , with the wide frill of her cap for ray .
`` This be Nursey Hummel , and she will give you a nice bath , and cut your hair , and make you all ` comfy , ' a Rob say .
That 's the bath-room in there ; and on Saturday night we scrub all the little lad first , and pack them away in bed before the big one get through singing .
Now then , Rob , in with you . ''
As she talk , Mrs. Bhaer have whip off Rob 's clothes and pop him into a long bath-tub in the little room open into the nursery .
There be two tub , besides foot-baths , basin , douche-pipes , and all manner of contrivance for cleanliness .
Nat be soon luxuriate in the other bath ; and while simmer there , he watch the performance of the two woman , who scrub , clean night-gowned , and bundle into bed four or five small boy , who , of course , cut up all sort of caper during the operation , and keep every one in a gale of merriment till they be extinguish in their bed .
By the time Nat be wash and do up in a blanket by the fire , while Nursey cut his hair , a new detachment of boy arrive and be shut into the bath-room , where they make a much splashing and noise a a school of young whale at play .
`` Nat have well sleep here , so that if his cough trouble him in the night you can see that he take a good draught of flax-seed tea , '' say Mrs. Bhaer , who be fly about like a distracted hen with a large brood of lively duckling .
Nursey approve the plan , finish Nat off with a flannel night-gown , a drink of something warm and sweet , and then tuck him into one of the three little bed stand in the room , where he lay look like a contented mummy and feeling that nothing more in the way of luxury could be offer him .
Cleanliness in itself be a new and delightful sensation ; flannel gown be unknown comfort in his world ; sip of `` good stuff '' soothe his cough as pleasantly a kind word do his lonely heart ; and the feeling that somebody care for him make that plain room seem a sort of heaven to the homeless child .
It be like a cosy dream ; and he often shut his eye to see if it would not vanish when he open them again .
It be too pleasant to let him sleep , and he could not have do so if he have try , for in a few minute one of the peculiar institution of Plumfield be reveal to his astonish but appreciative eye .
A momentary lull in the aquatic exercise be follow by the sudden appearance of pillow fly in all direction , hurl by white goblin , who come riot out of their bed .
The battle rag in several room , all down the upper hall , and even surge at interval into the nursery , when some hard-pressed warrior take refuge there .
No one seem to mind this explosion in the least ; no one forbade it , or even look surprised .
Nursey go on hang up towel , and Mrs. Bhaer lay out clean clothes , as calmly a if the most perfect order reign .
Nay , she even chase one daring boy out of the room , and fire after him the pillow he have slyly thrown at her .
`` Wo n't they hurt 'em ? ''
ask Nat , who lay laugh with all his might .
`` Oh dear , no !
We always allow one pillow-fight Saturday night .
The case be change to-morrow ; and it get up a glow after the boy ' bath ; so I rather like it myself , '' say Mrs. Bhaer , busy again among her dozen pair of sock .
`` What a very nice school this be ! ''
observe Nat , in a burst of admiration .
`` It 's an odd one , '' laugh Mrs. Bhaer , `` but you see we do n't believe in make child miserable by too many rule , and too much study .
I forbid night-gown party at first ; but , bless you , it be of no use .
I could no more keep those boy in their bed than so many jack in the box .
So I make an agreement with them : I be to allow a fifteen-minute pillow-fight every Saturday night ; and they promise to go properly to bed every other night .
I try it , and it work well .
If they do n't keep their word , no frolic ; if they do , I just turn the glass round , put the lamp in safe place , and let them rampage as much a they like . ''
`` It 's a beautiful plan , '' say Nat , feel that he should like to join in the fray , but not venture to propose it the first night .
So he lay enjoy the spectacle , which certainly be a lively one .
Tommy Bangs lead the assail party , and Demi defend his own room with a dogged courage fine to see , collect pillow behind him as fast a they be throw , till the besieger be out of ammunition , when they would charge upon him in a body , and recover their arm .
A few slight accident occur , but nobody mind , and give and take sound thwack with perfect good humor , while pillow fly like big snowflake , till Mrs. Bhaer look at her watch , and call out : `` Time be up , boy .
Into bed , every man jack , or pay the forfeit ! ''
`` What be the forfeit ? ''
ask Nat , sit up in his eagerness to know what happen to those wretch who disobey this most peculiar , but public-spirited school-ma ` be .
`` Lose their fun next time , '' answer Mrs. Bhaer .
`` I give them five minute to settle down , then put out the light , and expect order .
They be honorable lad , and they keep their word . ''
That be evident , for the battle end as abruptly a it begin a parting shot or two , a final cheer , a Demi fire the seventh pillow at the retire foe , a few challenge for next time , then order prevail .
And nothing but an occasional giggle or a suppressed whisper break the quiet which follow the Saturday-night frolic , a Mother Bhaer kiss her new boy and leave him to happy dream of life at Plumfield .
CHAPTER II .
THE BOYS While Nat take a good long sleep , I will tell my little reader something about the boy , among whom he find himself when he wake up .
To begin with our old friend .
Franz be a tall lad , of sixteen now , a regular German , big , blond , and bookish , also very domestic , amiable , and musical .
His uncle be fit him for college , and his aunt for a happy home of his own hereafter , because she carefully foster in him gentle manner , love of child , respect for woman , old and young , and helpful way about the house .
He be her right-hand man on all occasion , steady , kind , and patient ; and he love his merry aunt like a mother , for such she have try to be to him .
Emil be quite different , be quick-tempered , restless , and enterprising , bent on go to sea , for the blood of the old viking stir in his vein , and could not be tame .
His uncle promise that he should go when he be sixteen , and set him to study navigation , give him story of good and famous admiral and hero to read , and let him lead the life of a frog in river , pond , and brook , when lesson be do .
His room look like the cabin of a man-of-war , for every thing be nautical , military , and shipshape .
Captain Kyd be his delight , and his favorite amusement be to rig up like that piratical gentleman , and roar out sanguinary sea-songs at the top of his voice .
He would dance nothing but sailor ' hornpipe , roll in his gait , and be as nautical in conversation to his uncle would permit .
The boy call him `` Commodore , '' and take great pride in his fleet , which whiten the pond and suffer disaster that would have daunt any commander but a sea-struck boy .
Demi be one of the child who show plainly the effect of intelligent love and care , for soul and body work harmoniously together .
The natural refinement which nothing but home influence can teach , give him sweet and simple manner : his mother have cherish an innocent and love heart in him ; his father have watch over the physical growth of his boy , and keep the little body straight and strong on wholesome food and exercise and sleep , while Grandpa March cultivate the little mind with the tender wisdom of a modern Pythagoras , not task it with long , hard lesson , parrot-learned , but help it to unfold a naturally and beautifully a sun and dew help roses bloom .
He be not a perfect child , by any mean , but his fault be of the good sort ; and be early taught the secret of self-control , he be not leave at the mercy of appetite and passion , a some poor little mortal be , and then punish for yield to the temptation against which they have no armor .
A quiet , quaint boy be Demi , serious , yet cheery , quite unconscious that he be unusually bright and beautiful , yet quick to see and love intelligence or beauty in other child .
Very fond of book , and full of lively fancy , born of a strong imagination and a spiritual nature , these trait make his parent anxious to balance them with useful knowledge and healthful society , lest they should make him one of those pale precocious child who amaze and delight a family sometimes , and fade away like hot-house flower , because the young soul bloom too soon , and have not a hearty body to root it firmly in the wholesome soil of this world .
So Demi be transplant to Plumfield , and take so kindly to the life there , that Meg and John and Grandpa felt satisfy that they have do well .
Mixing with other boy bring out the practical side of him , rouse his spirit , and brush away the pretty cobweb he be so fond of spin in that little brain of his .
To be sure , he rather shock his mother when he come home , by bang door , say `` by George '' emphatically , and demand tall thick boot `` that clump like papa 's . ''
But John rejoice over him , laugh at his explosive remark , get the boot , and say contentedly , `` He be do well ; so let him clump .
I want my son to be a manly boy , and this temporary roughness wo n't hurt him .
We can polish him up by and by ; and a for learning , he will pick that up a pigeon do pea .
So do n't hurry him . ''
Daisy be a sunshiny and charm a ever , with all sort of womanliness bud in her , for she be like her gentle mother , and delight in domestic thing .
She have a family of doll , whom she bring up in the most exemplary manner ; she could not get on without her little work-basket and bit of sewing , which she do so nicely , that Demi frequently pull out his handkerchief display her neat stitch , and Baby Josy have a flannel petticoat beautifully make by Sister Daisy .
She like to quiddle about the china-closet , prepare the salt-cellars , put the spoon straight on the table ; and every day go round the parlor with her brush , dust chair and table .
Demi call her a `` Betty , '' but be very glad to have her keep his thing in order , lend him her nimble finger in all sort of work , and help him with his lesson , for they keep abreast there , and have no thought of rivalry .
The love between them be as strong a ever ; and no one could laugh Demi out of his affectionate way with Daisy .
He fight her battle valiantly , and never could understand why boy should be ashamed to say `` right out , '' that they love their sister .
Daisy adore her twin , think `` my brother '' the most remarkable boy in the world , and every morning , in her little wrapper , trot to tap at his door with a motherly `` Get up , my dear , it 's ` most breakfast time ; and here 's your clean collar . ''
Rob be an energetic morsel of a boy , who seem to have discover the secret of perpetual motion , for he never be still .
Fortunately , he be not mischievous , nor very brave ; so he keep out of trouble pretty well , and vibrate between father and mother like an affectionate little pendulum with a lively tick , for Rob be a chatterbox .
Teddy be too young to play a very important part in the affair of Plumfield , yet he have his little sphere , and fill it beautifully .
Every one felt the need of a pet at time , and Baby be always ready to accommodate , for kiss and cuddle suit him excellently .
Mrs. Jo seldom stir without him ; so he have his little finger in all the domestic pie , and every one find them all the good for it , for they believe in baby at Plumfield .
Dick Brown , and Adolphus or Dolly Pettingill , be two eight year-olds .
Dolly stutter badly , but be gradually get over it , for no one be allow to mock him and Mr. Bhaer try to cure it , by make him talk slowly .
Dolly be a good little lad , quite uninteresting and ordinary , but he flourish here , and go through his daily duty and pleasure with placid content and propriety .
Dick Brown 's affliction be a crooked back , yet he bore his burden so cheerfully , that Demi once ask in his queer way , `` Do hump make people good-natured ?
I 'd like one if they do . ''
Dick be always merry , and do his best to be like other boy , for a plucky spirit live in the feeble little body .
When he first come , he be very sensitive about his misfortune , but soon learn to forget it , for no one dare remind him of it , after Mr. Bhaer have punish one boy for laugh at him .
`` God do n't care ; for my soul be straight if my back be n't , '' sob Dick to his tormentor on that occasion ; and , by cherish this idea , the Bhaers soon lead him to believe that people also love his soul , and do not mind his body , except to pity and help him to bear it .
Playing menagerie once with the others , some one say , `` What animal will you be , Dick ? ''
`` Oh , I 'm the dromedary ; do n't you see the hump on my back ? ''
be the laugh answer .
`` So you be , my nice little one that do n't carry load , but march by the elephant first in the procession , '' say Demi , who be arrange the spectacle .
`` I hope others will be a kind to the poor dear a my boy have learn to be , '' say Mrs. Jo , quite satisfied with the success of her teaching , a Dick amble past her , look like a very happy , but a very feeble little dromedary , beside stout Stuffy , who do the elephant with ponderous propriety .
Jack Ford be a sharp , rather a sly lad , who be send to this school , because it be cheap .
Many men would have think him a smart boy , but Mr. Bhaer do not like his way of illustrate that Yankee word , and think his unboyish keenness and money-loving a much of an affliction a Dolly 's stutter , or Dick 's hump .
Ned Barker be like a thousand other boy of fourteen , all leg , blunder , and bluster .
Indeed the family call him the `` Blunderbuss , '' and always expect to see him tumble over the chair , bump against the table , and knock down any small article near him .
He brag a good deal about what he could do , but seldom do any thing to prove it , be not brave , and a little give to tale-telling .
He be apt to bully the small boy , and flatter the big one , and without be at all bad , be just the sort of fellow who could very easily be lead astray .
George Cole have be spoil by an over-indulgent mother , who stuff him with sweetmeat till he be sick , and then think him too delicate to study , so that at twelve year old , he be a pale , puffy boy , dull , fretful , and lazy .
A friend persuade her to send him to Plumfield , and there he soon get wake up , for sweet thing be seldom allow , much exercise require , and study make so pleasant , that Stuffy be gently lure along , till he quite amaze his anxious mamma by his improvement , and convince her that there be really something remarkable in Plumfield air .
Billy Ward be what the Scotch tenderly call an `` innocent , '' for though thirteen year old , he be like a child of six .
He have be an unusually intelligent boy , and his father have hurry him on too fast , give him all sort of hard lesson , keep at his book six hour a day , and expect him to absorb knowledge a a Strasburg goose do the food cram down it throat .
He think he be do his duty , but he nearly kill the boy , for a fever give the poor child a sad holiday , and when he recover , the overtasked brain give out , and Billy 's mind be like a slate over which a sponge have pass , leave it blank .
It be a terrible lesson to his ambitious father ; he could not bear the sight of his promising child , change to a feeble idiot , and he send him away to Plumfield , scarcely hop that he could be help , but sure that he would be kindly treat .
Quite docile and harmless be Billy , and it be pitiful to see how hard he try to learn , a if grope dimly after the lost knowledge which have cost him so much .
Day after day , he pore over the alphabet , proudly say A and B , and think that he know them , but on the morrow they be go , and all the work be to be do over again .
Mr. Bhaer have infinite patience with him , and keep on in spite of the apparent hopelessness of the task , not care for book lesson , but try gently to clear away the mist from the darken mind , and give it back intelligence enough to make the boy le a burden and an affliction .
Mrs. Bhaer strengthen his health by every aid she could invent , and the boy all pity and be kind to him .
He do not like their active play , but would sit for hour watch the dove , would dig hole for Teddy till even that ardent grubber be satisfied , or follow Silas , the man , from place to place see him work , for honest Si be very good to him , and though he forget his letter Billy remember friendly face .
Tommy Bangs be the scapegrace of the school , and the most try scapegrace that ever live .
As full of mischief a a monkey , yet so good-hearted that one could not help forgive his trick ; so scatter-brained that word go by him like the wind , yet so penitent for every misdeed , that it be impossible to keep sober when he vow tremendous vow of reformation , or propose all sort of queer punishment to be inflict upon himself .
Mr. and Mrs. Bhaer live in a state of preparation for any mishap , from the breaking of Tommy 's own neck , to the blow up of the entire family with gunpowder ; and Nursey have a particular drawer in which she keep bandage , plaster , and salve for his especial use , for Tommy be always be bring in half dead ; but nothing ever kill him , and he arose from every downfall with redoubled vigor .
The first day he come , he chop the top off one finger in the hay-cutter , and during the week , fell from the shed roof , be chase by an angry hen who try to pick his out because he examine her chicken , get run away with , and have his ear box violent by Asia , who catch him luxuriously skim a pan of cream with half a steal pie .
Undaunted , however , by any failure or rebuff , this indomitable youth go on amuse himself with all sort of trick till no one felt safe .
If he do not know his lesson , he always have some droll excuse to offer , and a he be usually clever at his book , and as bright a a button in compose answer when he do not know them , he go on pretty well at school .
But out of school , Ye god and little fish !
how Tommy do carouse !
He wind fat Asia up in her own clothes line against the post , and leave here there to fume and scold for half an hour one busy Monday morning .
He drop a hot cent down Mary Ann 's back a that pretty maid be wait at table one day when there be gentleman to dinner , whereat the poor girl upset the soup and rush out of the room in dismay , leave the family to think that she have go mad .
He fix a pail of water up in a tree , with a bit of ribbon fasten to the handle , and when Daisy , attract by the gay streamer , try to pull it down , she get a douche bath that spoil her clean frock and hurt her little feelings very much .
He put rough white pebble in the sugar-bowl when his grandmother come to tea , and the poor old lady wonder why they do n't melt in her cup , but be too polite to say anything .
He pass around snuff in church so that five of the boy sneeze with such violence they have to go out .
He dig path in winter time , and then privately water them so that people should tumble down .
He drive poor Silas nearly wild by hang his big boot in conspicuous place , for his foot be enormous , and he be very much ashamed of them .
He persuade confide little Dolly to tie a thread to one of his loose teeth , and leave the string hang from his mouth when he go to sleep , so that Tommy could pull it out without his feel the dreaded operation .
But the tooth would n't come at the first tweak , and poor Dolly wake up in great anguish of spirit , and lose all faith in Tommy from that day forth .
The last prank have be to give the hen bread soak in rum , which make them tipsy and scandalize all the other fowl , for the respectable old biddy go stagger about , peck and cluck in the most maudlin manner , while the family be convulse with laughter at their antic , till Daisy take pity on them and shut them up in the hen-house to sleep off their intoxication .
These be the boy and they live together as happy a twelve lad could , study and playing , work and squabble , fight fault and cultivate virtue in the good old-fashioned way .
Boys at other school probably learn more from book , but less of that good wisdom which make good men .
Latin , Greek , and mathematics be all very well , but in Professor Bhaer 's opinion , self knowledge , self-help , and self-control be more important , and he try to teach them carefully .
People shake their head sometimes at his idea , even while they own that the boy improve wonderfully in manner and moral .
But then , a Mrs. Jo say to Nat , `` it be an odd school . ''
CHAPTER III .
SUNDAY The moment the bell ring next morning Nat fly out of bed , and dress himself with great satisfaction in the suit of clothes he find on the chair .
They be not new , be half-worn garment of one of the well-to-do boy ; but Mrs. Bhaer keep all such cast-off feather for the picked robin who stray into her nest .
They be hardly on when Tommy appear in a high state of clean collar , and escort Nat down to breakfast .
The sun be shin into the dining-room on the well-spread table , and the flock of hungry , hearty lad who gather round it .
Nat observe that they be much more orderly than they have be the night before , and every one stood silently behind his chair while little Rob , stand beside his father at the head of the table , fold his hand , reverently bend his curly head , and softly repeat a short grace in the devout German fashion , which Mr. Bhaer love and teach his little son to honor .
Then they all sit down to enjoy the Sunday-morning breakfast of coffee , steak , and bake potato , instead of the bread and milk fare with which they usually satisfy their young appetite .
There be much pleasant talk while the knife and fork rattle briskly , for certain Sunday lesson be to be learn , the Sunday walk settle , and plan for the week discuss .
As he listen , Nat think it seem a if this day must be a very pleasant one , for he love quiet , and there be a cheerful sort of hush over every thing that please him very much ; because , in spite of his rough life , the boy possess the sensitive nerve which belong to a music-loving nature .
`` Now , my lad , get your morning job do , and let me find you ready for church when the ` bus come round , '' say Father Bhaer , and set the example by go into the school-room to get book ready for the morrow .
Every one scatter to his or her task , for each have some little daily duty , and be expect to perform it faithfully .
Some bring wood and water , brush the step , or run errand for Mrs. Bhaer .
Others feed the pet animal , and do chore about the barn with Franz .
Daisy wash the cup , and Demi wipe them , for the twin like to work together , and Demi have be teach to make himself useful in the little house at home .
Even Baby Teddy have his small job to do , and trot to and fro , put napkin away , and push chair into their place .
For half and hour the lad buzz about like a hive of bee , then the ` bus drove round , Father Bhaer and Franz with the eight old boy pile in , and away they go for a three-mile drive to church in town .
Because of the troublesome cough Nat prefer to stay at home with the four small boy , and spend a happy morning in Mrs. Bhaer 's room , listen to the story she read them , learn the hymn she teach them , and then quietly employ himself paste picture into an old ledger .
`` This be my Sunday closet , '' she say , show him shelf fill with picture-books , paint-boxes , architectural block , little diary , and material for letter-writing .
`` I want my boy to love Sunday , to find it a peaceful , pleasant day , when they can rest from common study and play , yet enjoy quiet pleasure , and learn , in simple way , lesson more important than any taught in school .
Do you understand me ? ''
she ask , watch Nat 's attentive face .
`` You mean to be good ? ''
he say , after hesitate a minute .
`` Yes ; to be good , and to love to be good .
It be hard work sometimes , I know very well ; but we all help one another , and so we get on .
This be one of the way in which I try to help my boy , '' and she take down a thick book , which seem half-full of writing , and open at a page on which there be one word at the top .
`` Why , that 's my name ! ''
cry Nat , look both surprised and interested .
`` Yes ; I have a page for each boy .
I keep a little account of how he get on through the week , and Sunday night I show him the record .
If it be bad I be sorry and disappointed , if it be good I be glad and proud ; but , whichever it be , the boy know I want to help them , and they try to do their best for love of me and Father Bhaer . ''
`` I should think they would , '' say Nat , catch a glimpse of Tommy 's name opposite his own , and wonder what be write under it .
Mrs. Bhaer saw his eye on the word , and shake her head , say , a she turn a leaf , `` No , I do n't show my record to any but the one to whom each belongs .
I call this my conscience book ; and only you and I will ever know what be to be write on the page below your name .
Whether you will be pleased or ashamed to read it next Sunday depend on yourself .
I think it will be a good report ; at any rate , I shall try to make thing easy for you in this new place , and shall be quite content if you keep our few rule , live happily with the boy , and learn something . ''
`` I 'll try ma'am ; '' and Nat 's thin face flush up with the earnestness of his desire to make Mrs. Bhaer `` glad and proud , '' not `` sorry and disappointed . ''
`` It must be a great deal of trouble to write about so many , '' he add , a she shut her book with an encouraging pat on the shoulder .
`` Not to me , for I really do n't know which I like best , write or boy , '' she say , laugh to see Nat stare with astonishment at the last item .
`` Yes , I know many people think boy be a nuisance , but that be because they do n't understand them .
I do ; and I never saw the boy yet whom I could not get on capitally with after I have once find the soft spot in his heart .
Bless me , I could n't get on at all without my flock of dear , noisy , naughty , harum-scarum little lad , could I , my Teddy ? ''
and Mrs. Bhaer hug the young rogue , just in time to save the big inkstand from go into his pocket .
Nat , who have never hear anything like this before , really do not know whether Mother Bhaer be a trifle crazy , or the most delightful woman he have ever meet .
He rather incline to the latter opinion , in spite of her peculiar taste , for she have a way of fill up a fellow 's plate before he ask , of laugh at his joke , gently tweak him by the ear , or clap him on the shoulder , that Nat find very engage .
`` Now , I think you would like to go into the school-room and practise some of the hymn we be to sing to-night , '' she say , rightly guess the thing of all others that he want to do .
Alone with the beloved violin and the music-book prop up before him in the sunny window , while Spring beauty fill the world outside , and Sabbath silence reign within , Nat enjoy an hour or two of genuine happiness , learn the sweet old tune , and forget the hard past in the cheerful present .
When the church-goers come back and dinner be over , every one read , write letter home , say their Sunday lesson , or talk quietly to one another , sit here and there about the house .
At three o'clock the entire family turn out to walk , for all the active young body must have exercise ; and in these walk the active young mind be taught to see and love the providence of God in the beautiful miracle which Nature be work before their eye .
Mr. Bhaer always go with them , and in his simple , fatherly way , find for his flock , `` Sermons in stone , book in the running brook , and good in everything . ''
Mrs. Bhaer with Daisy and her own two boy drive into town , to pay the weekly visit to Grandma , which be busy Mother Bhaer 's one holiday and great pleasure .
Nat be not strong enough for the long walk , and ask to stay at home with Tommy , who kindly offer to do the honor of Plumfield .
`` You 've see the house , so come out and have a look at the garden , and the barn , and the menagerie , '' say Tommy , when they be leave alone with Asia , to see that they do n't get into mischief ; for , though Tommy be one of the best-meaning boy who ever adorn knickerbockers , accident of the most direful nature be always happen to him , no one could exactly tell how .
`` What be your menagerie ? ''
ask Nat , a they trot along the drive that encircle the house .
`` We all have pet , you see , and we keep 'em in the corn-barn , and call it the menagerie .
Here you be .
Is n't my guinea-pig a beauty ? ''
and Tommy proudly present one of the ugly specimen of that please animal that Nat ever saw .
`` I know a boy with a dozen of 'em , and he say he 'd give me one , only I have n't any place to keep it , so I could n't have it .
It be white , with black spot , a regular rouser , and maybe I could get it for you if you 'd like it , '' say Nat , feel it would be a delicate return for Tommy 's attention .
`` I 'd like it ever so much , and I 'll give you this one , and they can live together if they do n't fight .
Those white mouse be Rob 's , Franz give 'em to him .
The rabbit be Ned 's , and the bantam outside be Stuffy 's .
That box thing be Demi 's turtle-tank , only he have n't begin to get 'em yet .
Last year he have sixty-two , whackers some of 'em .
He stamp one of 'em with his name and the year , and let it go ; and he say maybe he will find it ever so long after and know it .
He read about a turtle be find that have a mark on it that show it must be hundred of year old .
Demi 's such a funny chap . ''
`` What be in this box ? ''
ask Nat , stop before a large deep one , half-full of earth .
`` Oh , that 's Jack Ford 's worm-shop .
He dig heap of 'em and keep 'em here , and when we want any to go afishing with , we buy some of him .
It save lot of trouble , only he charge too much for 'em .
Why , last time we trade I have to pay two cent a dozen , and then get little one .
Jack 's mean sometimes , and I tell him I 'd dig for myself if he do n't lower his price .
Now , I own two hen , those gray one with top knot , first-rate one they be too , and I sell Mrs. Bhaer the egg , but I never ask her more than twenty-five cent a dozen , never !
I 'd be ashamed to do it , '' cry Tommy , with a glance of scorn at the worm-shop .
`` Who own the dog ? ''
ask Nat , much interested in these commercial transaction , and feel that T. Bangs be a man whom it would be a privilege and a pleasure to patronize .
`` The big dog be Emil 's .
His name be Christopher Columbus .
Mrs. Bhaer name him because she like to say Christopher Columbus , and no one mind it if she mean the dog , '' answer Tommy , in the tone of a show-man display his menagerie .
`` The white pup be Rob 's , and the yellow one be Teddy 's .
A man be go to drown them in our pond , and Pa Bhaer would n't let him .
They do well enough for the little chap , I do n't think much of 'em myself .
Their name be Castor and Pollux . ''
`` I 'd like Toby the donkey best , if I could have anything , it 's so nice to ride , and he 's so little and good , '' say Nat , remember the weary tramp he have take on his own tired foot .
`` Mr. Laurie send him out to Mrs. Bhaer , so she should n't carry Teddy on her back when we go to walk .
We 're all fond of Toby , and he 's a first-rate donkey , sir .
Those pigeon belong to the whole lot of u , we each have our pet one , and go share in all the little one a they come along .
Squabs be great fun ; there ai n't any now , but you can go up and take a look at the old fellow , while I see if Cockletop and Granny have lay any egg . ''
Nat climb up a ladder , put his head through a trap door and take a long look at the pretty dove bill and coo in their spacious loft .
Some on their nest , some bustling in and out , and some sit at their door , while many go fly from the sunny housetop to the straw-strewn farmyard , where six sleek cow be placidly ruminate .
`` Everybody have get something but me .
I wish I have a dove , or a hen , or even a turtle , all my own , '' think Nat , feel very poor a he saw the interesting treasure of the other boy .
`` How do you get these thing ? ''
he ask , when he join Tommy in the barn .
`` We find 'em or buy 'em , or folk give 'em to u .
My father send me mine ; but as soon a I get egg money enough , I 'm go to buy a pair of duck .
There 's a nice little pond for 'em behind the barn , and people pay well for duck-eggs , and the little ducky be pretty , and it 's fun to see 'em swim , '' say Tommy , with the air of a millionaire .
Nat sigh , for he have neither father nor money , nothing in the wide world but an old empty pocketbook , and the skill that lay in his ten finger tip .
Tommy seem to understand the question and the sigh which follow his answer , for after a moment of deep thought , he suddenly break out , `` Look here , I 'll tell you what I 'll do .
If you will hunt egg for me , I hate it , I 'll give you one egg out of every dozen .
You keep account , and when you 've have twelve , Mother Bhaer will give you twenty-five cent for 'em , and then you can buy what you like , do n't you see ? ''
`` I 'll do it !
What a kind feller you be , Tommy ! ''
cry Nat , quite dazzle by this brilliant offer .
`` Pooh !
that be not anything .
You begin now and rummage the barn , and I 'll wait here for you .
Granny be cackle , so you 're sure to find one somewhere , '' and Tommy throw himself down on the hay with a luxurious sense of have make a good bargain , and do a friendly thing .
Nat joyfully begin his search , and go rustle from loft to loft till he find two fine egg , one hidden under a beam , and the other in an old peck measure , which Mrs. Cockletop have appropriate .
`` You may have one and I 'll have the other , that will just make up my last dozen , and to-morrow we 'll start fresh .
Here , you chalk your account up near mine , and then we 'll be all straight , '' say Tommy , show a row of mysterious figure on the side of an old winnowing machine .
With a delightful sense of importance , the proud possessor of one egg open his account with his friend , who laughingly write above the figure these impose word , `` T. Bangs & Co. '' Poor Nat find them so fascinate that he be with difficulty persuade to go and deposit his first piece of portable property in Asia 's store-room .
Then they go on again , and have make the acquaintance of the two horse , six cow , three pig , and one Alderney `` Bossy , '' a calf be call in New England , Tommy take Nat to a certain old willow-tree that overhang a noisy little brook .
From the fence it be an easy scramble into a wide niche between the three big branch , which have be cut off to send out from year to year a crowd of slender twig , till a green canopy rustle overhead .
Here little seat have be fix , and a hollow place a closet make big enough to hold a book or two , a dismantled boat , and several half-finished whistle .
`` This be Demi 's and my private place ; we make it , and nobody can come up unless we let 'em , except Daisy , we do n't mind her , '' say Tommy , a Nat look with delight from the babble brown water below to the green arch above , where bee be make a musical murmur a they feast on the long yellow blossom that fill the air with sweetness .
`` Oh , it 's just beautiful ! ''
cry Nat .
`` I do hope you 'll let me up sometimes .
I never saw such a nice place in all my life .
I 'd like to be a bird , and live here always . ''
`` It be pretty nice .
You can come if Demi do n't mind , and I guess he wo n't , because he say last night that he like you . ''
`` Did he ? ''
and Nat smile with pleasure , for Demi 's regard seem to be value by all the boy , partly because he be Father Bhaer 's nephew , and partly because he be such a sober , conscientious little fellow .
`` Yes ; Demi like quiet chap , and I guess he and you will get on if you care about reading a he do . ''
Poor Nat 's flush of pleasure deepen to a painful scarlet at those last word , and he stammer out , `` I ca n't read very well ; I never have any time ; I be always fiddle round , you know . ''
`` I do n't love it myself , but I can do it well enough when I want to , '' say Tommy , after a surprised look , which say a plainly a word , `` A boy twelve year old and ca n't read ! ''
`` I can read music , anyway , '' add Nat , rather ruffle at have to confess his ignorance .
`` I ca n't ; '' and Tommy speak in a respectful tone , which embolden Nat to say firmly , `` I mean to study real hard and learn every thing I can , for I never have a chance before .
Does Mr. Bhaer give hard lesson ? ''
`` No ; he be n't a bit cross ; he sort of explains and give you a boost over the hard place .
Some folk do n't ; my other master do n't .
If we miss a word , do n't we get rap on the head ! ''
and Tommy rub his own pate a if it tingle yet with the liberal supply of rap , the memory of which be the only thing he bring away after a year with his `` other master . ''
`` I think I could read this , '' say Nat , who have be examine the book .
`` Read a bit , then ; I 'll help you , '' resume Tommy , with a patronize air .
So Nat do his best , and flounder through a page with may friendly `` boost '' from Tommy , who tell him he would soon `` go it '' as well a anybody .
Then they sit and talk boy-fashion about all sort of thing , among others , gardening ; for Nat , look down from his perch , ask what be plant in the many little patch lie below them on the other side of the brook .
`` These be our farm , '' say Tommy .
`` We each have our own patch , and raise what we like in it , only have to choose different thing , and ca n't change till the crop be in , and we must keep it in order all summer . ''
`` What be you go to raise this year ? ''
`` Wal , I cattleated to hev bean , a they be about the easy crop a-goin ' . ''
Nat could not help laughing , for Tommy have push back his hat , put his hand in his pocket , and drawl out his word in unconscious imitation of Silas , the man who manage the place for Mr. Bhaer .
`` Come , you need n't laugh ; bean be ever so much easy than corn or potato .
I try melon last year , but the bug be a bother , and the old thing would n't get ripe before the frost , so I do n't have but one good water and two little ` mush mellions , ' '' say Tommy , relapse into a `` Silasism '' with the last word .
`` Corn look pretty growing , '' say Nat , politely , to atone for his laugh .
`` Yes , but you have to hoe it over and over again .
Now , six week ' bean only have to be do once or so , and they get ripe soon .
I 'm go to try 'em , for I speak first .
Stuffy want 'em , but he 's get to take pea ; they only have to be pick , and he ought to do it , he eat such a lot . ''
`` I wonder if I shall have a garden ? ''
say Nat , think that even corn-hoeing must be pleasant work .
`` Of course you will , '' say a voice from below , and there be Mr. Bhaer return from his walk , and come to find them , for he manage to have a little talk with every one of the lad some time during the day , and find that these chat give them a good start for the come week .
Sympathy be a sweet thing , and it work wonder here , for each boy know that Father Bhaer be interested in him , and some be ready to open their heart to him than to a woman , especially the old one , who like to talk over their hope and plan , man to man .
When sick or in trouble they instinctively turn to Mrs. Jo , while the little one make her their mother-confessor on all occasion .
In descend from their nest , Tommy fell into the brook ; be use to it , he calmly pick himself out and retire to the house to be dry .
This leave Nat to Mr. Bhaer , which be just what he wish , and , during the stroll they take among the garden plot , he win the lad 's heart by give him a little `` farm , '' and discuss crop with him as gravely a if the food for the family depend on the harvest .
From this pleasant topic they go to others , and Nat have many new and helpful thought put into a mind that receive them as gratefully a the thirsty earth have receive the warm spring rain .
All supper time he brood over them , often fix his eye on Mr. Bhaer with an inquire look , that seem to say , `` I like that , do it again , sir . ''
I do n't know whether the man understand the child 's mute language or not , but when the boy be all gather together in Mrs. Bhaer 's parlor for the Sunday evening talk , he choose a subject which might have be suggest by the walk in the garden .
As he look about him Nat think it seem more like a great family than a school , for the lad be sit in a wide half-circle round the fire , some on chair , some on the rug , Daisy and Demi on the knee of Uncle Fritz , and Rob snugly stow away in the back of his mother 's easy-chair , where he could nod unseen if the talk get beyond his depth .
Every one look quite comfortable , and listen attentively , for the long walk make rest agreeable , and a every boy there know that he would be call upon for his view , he keep his wit awake to be ready with an answer .
`` Once upon a time , '' begin Mr. Bhaer , in the dear old-fashioned way , `` there be a great and wise gardener who have the large garden ever see .
A wonderful and lovely place it be , and he watch over it with the great skill and care , and raise all manner of excellent and useful thing .
But weed would grow even in this fine garden ; often the ground be bad and the good seed sow in it would not spring up .
He have many under gardener to help him .
Some do their duty and earn the rich wage he give them ; but others neglect their part and let them run to waste , which displease him very much .
But he be very patient , and for thousand and thousand of year he work and wait for his great harvest . ''
`` He must have be pretty old , '' say Demi , who be look straight into Uncle Fritz 's face , a if to catch every word .
`` Hush , Demi , it 's a fairy story , '' whisper Daisy .
`` No , I think it 's an arrygory , '' say Demi .
`` What be a arrygory ? ''
call out Tommy , who be of an inquire turn .
`` Tell him , Demi , if you can , and do n't use word unless you be quite sure you know what they mean , '' say Mr. Bhaer .
`` I do know , Grandpa tell me !
A fable be a arrygory ; it 's a story that mean something .
My ` Story without an end ' be one , because the child in it mean a soul ; do n't it , Aunty ? ''
cry Demi , eager to prove himself right .
`` That 's it , dear ; and Uncle 's story be an allegory , I be quite sure ; so listen and see what it mean , '' return Mrs. Jo , who always take part in whatever be go on , and enjoy it as much a any boy among them .
Demi compose himself , and Mr. Bhaer go on in his best English , for he have improve much in the last five year , and say the boy do it .
`` This great gardener give a dozen or so of little plot to one of his servant , and tell him to do his best and see what he could raise .
Now this servant be not rich , nor wise , nor very good , but he want to help because the gardener have be very kind to him in many way .
So he gladly take the little plot and fell to work .
They be all sort of shape and size , and some be very good soil , some rather stony , and all of them need much care , for in the rich soil the weed grow fast , and in the poor soil there be many stone . ''
`` What be grow in them besides the weed , and stone ? ''
ask Nat ; so interested , he forget his shyness and speak before them all .
`` Flowers , '' say Mr. Bhaer , with a kind look .
