`` Twins , by Jupiter ! ''
be all he say for a minute , then turn to the woman with an appeal look that be comically piteous , he add , `` Take 'em quick , somebody !
I 'm go to laugh , and I shall drop 'em . ''
Jo rescue his baby , and march up and down , with one on each arm , a if already initiate into the mystery of babytending , while Laurie laugh till the tear run down his cheek .
`` It 's the best joke of the season , be n't it ?
I would n't have tell you , for I set my heart on surprising you , and I flatter myself I 've do it , '' say Jo , when she get her breath .
`` I never be more staggered in my life .
Is n't it fun ?
Are they boy ?
What be you go to name them ?
Let 's have another look .
Hold me up , Jo , for upon my life it 's one too many for me , '' return Laurie , regard the infant with the air of a big , benevolent Newfoundland look at a pair of infantile kitten .
`` Boy and girl .
Are n't they beauties ? ''
say the proud papa , beam upon the little red squirmer a if they be unfledged angel .
`` Most remarkable child I ever saw .
Which be which ? ''
and Laurie bent like a well-sweep to examine the prodigy .
`` Amy put a blue ribbon on the boy and a pink on the girl , French fashion , so you can always tell .
Besides , one have blue eye and one brown .
Kiss them , Uncle Teddy , '' say wicked Jo .
`` I 'm afraid they might n't like it , '' begin Laurie , with unusual timidity in such matter .
`` Of course they will , they be use to it now .
Do it this minute , sir ! ''
command Jo , fear he might propose a proxy .
Laurie screw up his face and obey with a gingerly peck at each little cheek that produce another laugh , and make the baby squeal .
`` There , I know they do n't like it !
That 's the boy , see him kick , he hit out with his fist like a good one .
Now then , young Brooke , pitch into a man of your own size , will you ? ''
cry Laurie , delight with a poke in the face from a tiny fist , flap aimlessly about .
`` He 's to be name John Laurence , and the girl Margaret , after mother and grandmother .
We shall call her Daisey , so a not to have two Megs , and I suppose the mannie will be Jack , unless we find a good name , '' say Amy , with aunt-like interest .
`` Name him Demijohn , and call him Demi for short , '' say Laurie `` Daisy and Demi , just the thing !
I know Teddy would do it , '' cry Jo clap her hand .
Teddy certainly have do it that time , for the baby be ` Daisy ' and ` Demi ' to the end of the chapter .
CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE CALLS `` Come , Jo , it 's time . ''
`` For what ? ''
`` You do n't mean to say you have forget that you promise to make half a dozen call with me today ? ''
`` I 've do a good many rash and foolish thing in my life , but I do n't think I ever be mad enough to say I 'd make six call in one day , when a single one upset me for a week . ''
`` Yes , you do , it be a bargain between u .
I be to finish the crayon of Beth for you , and you be to go properly with me , and return our neighbor ' visit . ''
`` If it be fair , that be in the bond , and I stand to the letter of my bond , Shylock .
There be a pile of cloud in the east , it 's not fair , and I do n't go . ''
`` Now , that 's shirk .
It 's a lovely day , no prospect of rain , and you pride yourself on keep promise , so be honorable , come and do your duty , and then be at peace for another six month . ''
At that minute Jo be particularly absorb in dressmaking , for she be mantua-maker general to the family , and take especial credit to herself because she could use a needle as well a a pen .
It be very provoking to be arrest in the act of a first trying-on , and order out to make call in her best array on a warm July day .
She hat call of the formal sort , and never make any till Amy compel her with a bargain , bribe , or promise .
In the present instance there be no escape , and have clash her scissors rebelliously , while protest that she smell thunder , she give in , put away her work , and take up her hat and glove with an air of resignation , tell Amy the victim be ready .
`` Jo March , you be perverse enough to provoke a saint !
You do n't intend to make call in that state , I hope , '' cry Amy , survey her with amazement .
`` Why not ?
I 'm neat and cool and comfortable , quite proper for a dusty walk on a warm day .
If people care more for my clothes than they do for me , I do n't wish to see them .
You can dress for both , and be as elegant a you please .
It pay for you to be fine .
It do n't for me , and furbelows only worry me . ''
`` Oh , dear ! ''
sigh Amy , `` now she 's in a contrary fit , and will drive me distracted before I can get her properly ready .
I 'm sure it 's no pleasure to me to go today , but it 's a debt we owe society , and there 's no one to pay it but you and me .
I 'll do anything for you , Jo , if you 'll only dress yourself nicely , and come and help me do the civil .
You can talk so well , look so aristocratic in your best thing , and behave so beautifully , if you try , that I 'm proud of you .
I 'm afraid to go alone , do come and take care of me . ''
`` You 're an artful little pus to flatter and wheedle your cross old sister in that way .
The idea of my be aristocratic and well-bred , and your be afraid to go anywhere alone !
I do n't know which be the most absurd .
Well , I 'll go if I must , and do my best .
You shall be commander of the expedition , and I 'll obey blindly , will that satisfy you ? ''
say Jo , with a sudden change from perversity to lamblike submission .
`` You 're a perfect cherub !
Now put on all your best thing , and I 'll tell you how to behave at each place , so that you will make a good impression .
I want people to like you , and they would if you 'd only try to be a little more agreeable .
Do your hair the pretty way , and put the pink rise in your bonnet .
It 's become , and you look too sober in your plain suit .
Take your light glove and the embroidered handkerchief .
We 'll stop at Meg 's , and borrow her white sunshade , and then you can have my dove-colored one . ''
While Amy dress , she issue her order , and Jo obey them , not without enter her protest , however , for she sigh a she rustle into her new organdie , frown darkly at herself a she tie her bonnet string in an irreproachable bow , wrestle viciously with pin a she put on her collar , wrinkle up her feature generally a she shake out the handkerchief , whose embroidery be a irritating to her nose a the present mission be to her feeling , and when she have squeeze her hand into tight glove with three button and a tassel , a the last touch of elegance , she turn to Amy with an imbecile expression of countenance , say meekly ... `` I 'm perfectly miserable , but if you consider me presentable , I die happy . ''
`` You 're highly satisfactory .
Turn slowly round , and let me get a careful view . ''
Jo revolve , and Amy give a touch here and there , then fell back , with her head on one side , observe graciously , `` Yes , you 'll do .
Your head be all I could ask , for that white bonnet with the rise be quite ravish .
Hold back your shoulder , and carry your hand easily , no matter if your glove do pinch .
There 's one thing you can do well , Jo , that be , wear a shawl .
I ca n't , but it 's very nice to see you , and I 'm so glad Aunt March give you that lovely one .
It 's simple , but handsome , and those fold over the arm be really artistic .
Is the point of my mantle in the middle , and have I loop my dress evenly ?
I like to show my boot , for my foot be pretty , though my nose be n't . ''
`` You be a thing of beauty and a joy forever , '' say Jo , look through her hand with the air of a connoisseur at the blue feather against the golden hair .
`` Am I to drag my best dress through the dust , or loop it up , please , ma'am ? ''
`` Hold it up when you walk , but drop it in the house .
The sweeping style suit you best , and you must learn to trail your skirt gracefully .
You have n't half buttoned one cuff , do it at once .
You 'll never look finish if you be not careful about the little detail , for they make up the pleasing whole . ''
Jo sigh , and proceed to burst the button off her glove , in do up her cuff , but at last both be ready , and sail away , look a ` pretty a picters ' , Hannah say , a she hang out of the upper window to watch them .
`` Now , Jo dear , the Chesters consider themselves very elegant people , so I want you to put on your best deportment .
Do n't make any of your abrupt remark , or do anything odd , will you ?
Just be calm , cool , and quiet , that 's safe and ladylike , and you can easily do it for fifteen minute , '' say Amy , a they approach the first place , have borrow the white parasol and be inspect by Meg , with a baby on each arm .
`` Let me see .
` Calm , cool , and quiet ' , yes , I think I can promise that .
I 've play the part of a prim young lady on the stage , and I 'll try it off .
My power be great , a you shall see , so be easy in your mind , my child . ''
Amy look relieve , but naughty Jo take her at her word , for during the first call she sit with every limb gracefully compose , every fold correctly drape , calm a a summer sea , cool a a snowbank , and as silent a the sphinx .
In vain Mrs. Chester allude to her ` charm novel ' , and the Misses Chester introduce party , picnic , the opera , and the fashion .
Each and all be answer by a smile , a bow , and a demure `` Yes '' or `` No '' with the chill on .
In vain Amy telegraph the word ` talk ' , try to draw her out , and administer covert poke with her foot .
Jo sit a if blandly unconscious of it all , with deportment like Maud 's face , ` icily regular , splendidly null ' .
`` What a haughty , uninteresting creature that old Miss March be ! ''
be the unfortunately audible remark of one of the lady , a the door close upon their guest .
Jo laugh noiselessly all through the hall , but Amy look disgust at the failure of her instruction , and very naturally lay the blame upon Jo .
`` How could you mistake me so ?
I merely mean you to be properly dignify and compose , and you make yourself a perfect stock and stone .
Try to be sociable at the Lambs ' .
Gossip a other girl do , and be interested in dress and flirtation and whatever nonsense come up .
They move in the best society , be valuable person for u to know , and I would n't fail to make a good impression there for anything . ''
`` I 'll be agreeable .
I 'll gossip and giggle , and have horror and rapture over any trifle you like .
I rather enjoy this , and now I 'll imitate what be call ' a charming girl ' .
I can do it , for I have May Chester a a model , and I 'll improve upon her .
See if the Lambs do n't say , ` What a lively , nice creature that Jo March be ! ''
Amy felt anxious , as well she might , for when Jo turn freakish there be no knowing where she would stop .
Amy 's face be a study when she saw her sister skim into the next drawing room , kiss all the young lady with effusion , beam graciously upon the young gentleman , and join in the chat with a spirit which amaze the beholder .
Amy be take possession of by Mrs. Lamb , with whom she be a favorite , and force to hear a long account of Lucretia 's last attack , while three delightful young gentleman hover near , wait for a pause when they might rush in and rescue her .
So situated , she be powerless to check Jo , who seem possess by a spirit of mischief , and talk away as volubly a the lady .
A knot of head gather about her , and Amy strain her ear to hear what be go on , for broken sentence fill her with curiosity , and frequent peal of laughter make her wild to share the fun .
One may imagine her suffer on overhear fragment of this sort of conversation .
`` She rid splendidly .
Who teach her ? ''
`` No one .
She use to practice mounting , hold the rein , and sit straight on an old saddle in a tree .
Now she rid anything , for she do n't know what fear be , and the stableman let her have horse cheap because she train them to carry lady so well .
She have such a passion for it , I often tell her if everything else fail , she can be a horsebreaker , and get her living so . ''
At this awful speech Amy contain herself with difficulty , for the impression be be give that she be rather a fast young lady , which be her especial aversion .
But what could she do ?
For the old lady be in the middle of her story , and long before it be do , Jo be off again , make more droll revelation and commit still more fearful blunder .
`` Yes , Amy be in despair that day , for all the good beast be go , and of three leave , one be lame , one blind , and the other so balky that you have to put dirt in his mouth before he would start .
Nice animal for a pleasure party , be n't it ? ''
`` Which do she choose ? ''
ask one of the laugh gentleman , who enjoy the subject .
`` None of them .
She hear of a young horse at the farm house over the river , and though a lady have never ride him , she resolve to try , because he be handsome and spirited .
Her struggle be really pathetic .
There be no one to bring the horse to the saddle , so she take the saddle to the horse .
My dear creature , she actually row it over the river , put it on her head , and march up to the barn to the utter amazement of the old man ! ''
`` Did she ride the horse ? ''
`` Of course she do , and have a capital time .
I expect to see her brought home in fragment , but she manage him perfectly , and be the life of the party . ''
`` Well , I call that plucky ! ''
and young Mr. Lamb turn an approving glance upon Amy , wonder what his mother could be say to make the girl look so red and uncomfortable .
She be still red and more uncomfortable a moment after , when a sudden turn in the conversation introduce the subject of dress .
One of the young lady ask Jo where she get the pretty drab hat she wear to the picnic and stupid Jo , instead of mention the place where it be buy two year ago , must need answer with unnecessary frankness , `` Oh , Amy paint it .
You ca n't buy those soft shade , so we paint ours any color we like .
It 's a great comfort to have an artistic sister . ''
`` Is n't that an original idea ? ''
cry Miss Lamb , who find Jo great fun .
`` That 's nothing compare to some of her brilliant performance .
There 's nothing the child ca n't do .
Why , she want a pair of blue boot for Sallie 's party , so she just paint her soil white one the lovely shade of sky blue you ever saw , and they look exactly like satin , '' add Jo , with an air of pride in her sister 's accomplishment that exasperate Amy till she felt that it would be a relief to throw her cardcase at her .
`` We read a story of yours the other day , and enjoy it very much , '' observe the elder Miss Lamb , wish to compliment the literary lady , who do not look the character just then , it must be confess .
Any mention of her ` work ' always have a bad effect upon Jo , who either grow rigid and look offend , or change the subject with a brusque remark , a now .
`` Sorry you could find nothing good to read .
I write that rubbish because it sell , and ordinary people like it .
Are you go to New York this winter ? ''
As Miss Lamb have ` enjoy ' the story , this speech be not exactly grateful or complimentary .
The minute it be make Jo saw her mistake , but fear to make the matter worse , suddenly remember that it be for her to make the first move toward departure , and do so with an abruptness that leave three people with half-finished sentence in their mouth .
`` Amy , we must go .
Good-by , dear , do come and see u .
We be pin for a visit .
I do n't dare to ask you , Mr. Lamb , but if you should come , I do n't think I shall have the heart to send you away . ''
Jo say this with such a droll imitation of May Chester 's gushing style that Amy get out of the room as rapidly a possible , feel a strong desire to laugh and cry at the same time .
`` Did n't I do well ? ''
ask Jo , with a satisfied air a they walk away .
`` Nothing could have be bad , '' be Amy 's crush reply .
`` What possess you to tell those story about my saddle , and the hat and boot , and all the rest of it ? ''
`` Why , it 's funny , and amuse people .
They know we be poor , so it 's no use pretend that we have groom , buy three or four hat a season , and have thing a easy and fine a they do . ''
`` You need n't go and tell them all our little shift , and expose our poverty in that perfectly unnecessary way .
You have n't a bit of proper pride , and never will learn when to hold your tongue and when to speak , '' say Amy despairingly .
Poor Jo look abash , and silently chafe the end of her nose with the stiff handkerchief , a if perform a penance for her misdemeanor .
`` How shall I behave here ? ''
she ask , a they approach the third mansion .
`` Just a you please .
I wash my hand of you , '' be Amy 's short answer .
`` Then I 'll enjoy myself .
The boy be at home , and we 'll have a comfortable time .
Goodness know I need a little change , for elegance have a bad effect upon my constitution , '' return Jo gruffly , be disturb by her failure to suit .
An enthusiastic welcome from three big boy and several pretty child speedily soothe her ruffle feeling , and leave Amy to entertain the hostess and Mr. Tudor , who happen to be call likewise , Jo devote herself to the young folk and find the change refreshing .
She listen to college story with deep interest , caress pointer and poodle without a murmur , agree heartily that `` Tom Brown be a brick , '' regardless of the improper form of praise , and when one lad propose a visit to his turtle tank , she go with an alacrity which cause Mamma to smile upon her , a that motherly lady settle the cap which be leave in a ruinous condition by filial hug , bearlike but affectionate , and dearer to her than the most faultless coiffure from the hand of an inspired Frenchwoman .
Leaving her sister to her own device , Amy proceed to enjoy herself to her heart 's content .
Mr. Tudor 's uncle have marry an English lady who be third cousin to a living lord , and Amy regard the whole family with great respect , for in spite of her American birth and breeding , she possess that reverence for title which haunt the best of u -- that unacknowledged loyalty to the early faith in king which set the most democratic nation under the sun in ferment at the come of a royal yellow-haired laddie , some year ago , and which still have something to do with the love the young country bear the old , like that of a big son for an imperious little mother , who hold him while she could , and let him go with a farewell scold when he rebel .
But even the satisfaction of talk with a distant connection of the British nobility do not render Amy forgetful of time , and when the proper number of minute have pass , she reluctantly tear herself from this aristocratic society , and look about for Jo , fervently hop that her incorrigible sister would not be find in any position which should bring disgrace upon the name of March .
It might have be bad , but Amy consider it bad .
For Jo sit on the grass , with an encampment of boy about her , and a dirty-footed dog repose on the skirt of her state and festival dress , a she relate one of Laurie 's prank to her admire audience .
One small child be poke turtle with Amy 's cherished parasol , a second be eat gingerbread over Jo 's best bonnet , and a third play ball with her glove , but all be enjoy themselves , and when Jo collect her damaged property to go , her escort accompany her , beg her to come again , `` It be such fun to hear about Laurie 's lark . ''
`` Capital boy , be n't they ?
I feel quite young and brisk again after that . ''
say Jo , stroll along with her hand behind her , partly from habit , partly to conceal the bespattered parasol .
`` Why do you always avoid Mr. Tudor ? ''
ask Amy , wisely refrain from any comment upon Jo 's dilapidated appearance .
`` Do n't like him , he put on air , snub his sister , worry his father , and do n't speak respectfully of his mother .
Laurie say he be fast , and I do n't consider him a desirable acquaintance , so I let him alone . ''
`` You might treat him civilly , at least .
You give him a cool nod , and just now you bow and smile in the polite way to Tommy Chamberlain , whose father keep a grocery store .
If you have just reverse the nod and the bow , it would have be right , '' say Amy reprovingly .
`` No , it would n't , '' return Jo , `` I neither like , respect , nor admire Tudor , though his grandfather 's uncle 's nephew 's niece be a third cousin to a lord .
Tommy be poor and bashful and good and very clever .
I think well of him , and like to show that I do , for he be a gentleman in spite of the brown paper parcel . ''
`` It 's no use try to argue with you , '' begin Amy .
`` Not the least , my dear , '' interrupt Jo , `` so let u look amiable , and drop a card here , a the Kings be evidently out , for which I 'm deeply grateful . ''
The family cardcase have do it duty the girl walk on , and Jo utter another thanksgiving on reach the fifth house , and be tell that the young lady be engage .
`` Now let u go home , and never mind Aunt March today .
We can run down there any time , and it 's really a pity to trail through the dust in our best bib and tucker , when we be tire and cross . ''
`` Speak for yourself , if you please .
Aunt March like to have u pay her the compliment of come in style , and make a formal call .
It 's a little thing to do , but it give her pleasure , and I do n't believe it will hurt your thing half so much a let dirty dog and clump boy spoil them .
Stoop down , and let me take the crumb off of your bonnet . ''
`` What a good girl you be , Amy ! ''
say Jo , with a repentant glance from her own damage costume to that of her sister , which be fresh and spotless still .
`` I wish it be a easy for me to do little thing to please people a it be for you .
I think of them , but it take too much time to do them , so I wait for a chance to confer a great favor , and let the small one slip , but they tell best in the end , I fancy . ''
Amy smile and be mollify at once , say with a maternal air , `` Women should learn to be agreeable , particularly poor one , for they have no other way of repay the kindness they receive .
If you 'd remember that , and practice it , you 'd be good like than I be , because there be more of you . ''
`` I 'm a crotchety old thing , and always shall be , but I 'm willing to own that you be right , only it 's easy for me to risk my life for a person than to be pleasant to him when I do n't feel like it .
It 's a great misfortune to have such strong like and dislike , be n't it ? ''
`` It 's a great not to be able to hide them .
I do n't mind say that I do n't approve of Tudor any more than you do , but I 'm not call upon to tell him so .
Neither be you , and there be no use in make yourself disagreeable because he be . ''
`` But I think girl ought to show when they disapprove of young men , and how can they do it except by their manner ?
Preaching do not do any good , a I know to my sorrow , since I 've have Teddie to manage .
But there be many little way in which I can influence him without a word , and I say we ought to do it to others if we can . ''
`` Teddy be a remarkable boy , and ca n't be take a a sample of other boy , '' say Amy , in a tone of solemn conviction , which would have convulse the ` remarkable boy ' if he have hear it .
`` If we be belle , or woman of wealth and position , we might do something , perhaps , but for u to frown at one set of young gentleman because we do n't approve of them , and smile upon another set because we do , would n't have a particle of effect , and we should only be consider odd and puritanical . ''
`` So we be to countenance thing and people which we detest , merely because we be not belle and millionaire , be we ?
That 's a nice sort of morality . ''
`` I ca n't argue about it , I only know that it 's the way of the world , and people who set themselves against it only get laugh at for their pain .
I do n't like reformer , and I hope you never try to be one . ''
`` I do like them , and I shall be one if I can , for in spite of the laugh the world would never get on without them .
We ca n't agree about that , for you belong to the old set , and I to the new .
You will get on the best , but I shall have the lively time of it .
I should rather enjoy the brickbat and hooting , I think . ''
`` Well , compose yourself now , and do n't worry Aunt with your new idea . ''
`` I 'll try not to , but I 'm always possess to burst out with some particularly blunt speech or revolutionary sentiment before her .
It 's my doom , and I ca n't help it . ''
They find Aunt Carrol with the old lady , both absorb in some very interesting subject , but they drop it a the girl come in , with a conscious look which betray that they have be talk about their niece .
Jo be not in a good humor , and the perverse fit return , but Amy , who have virtuously do her duty , keep her temper and pleased everybody , be in a most angelic frame of mind .
This amiable spirit be felt at once , and both aunt ` my deared ' her affectionately , look what they afterward say emphatically , `` That child improve every day . ''
`` Are you go to help about the fair , dear ? ''
ask Mrs. Carrol , a Amy sit down beside her with the confide air elderly people like so well in the young .
`` Yes , Aunt .
Mrs. Chester ask me if I would , and I offer to tend a table , a I have nothing but my time to give . ''
`` I 'm not , '' put in Jo decidedly .
`` I hate to be patronize , and the Chesters think it 's a great favor to allow u to help with their highly connect fair .
I wonder you consent , Amy , they only want you to work . ''
`` I be willing to work .
It 's for the freedman as well a the Chesters , and I think it very kind of them to let me share the labor and the fun .
Patronage do not trouble me when it be well meant . ''
`` Quite right and proper .
I like your grateful spirit , my dear .
It 's a pleasure to help people who appreciate our effort .
Some do not , and that be try , '' observe Aunt March , look over her spectacle at Jo , who sit apart , rock herself , with a somewhat morose expression .
If Jo have only know what a great happiness be waver in the balance for one of them , she would have turn dove-like in a minute , but unfortunately , we do n't have window in our breast , and can not see what go on in the mind of our friend .
Better for u that we can not a a general thing , but now and then it would be such a comfort , such a saving of time and temper .
By her next speech , Jo deprive herself of several year of pleasure , and receive a timely lesson in the art of hold her tongue .
`` I do n't like favor , they oppress and make me feel like a slave .
I 'd rather do everything for myself , and be perfectly independent . ''
`` Ahem ! ''
cough Aunt Carrol softly , with a look at Aunt March .
`` I tell you so , '' say Aunt March , with a decided nod to Aunt Carrol .
Mercifully unconscious of what she have do , Jo sit with her nose in the air , and a revolutionary aspect which be anything but inviting .
`` Do you speak French , dear ? ''
ask Mrs. Carrol , lay a hand on Amy 's .
`` Pretty well , thanks to Aunt March , who let Esther talk to me as often a I like , '' reply Amy , with a grateful look , which cause the old lady to smile affably .
`` How be you about language ? ''
ask Mrs. Carrol of Jo .
`` Do n't know a word .
I 'm very stupid about study anything , ca n't bear French , it 's such a slippery , silly sort of language , '' be the brusque reply .
Another look pass between the lady , and Aunt March say to Amy , `` You be quite strong and well now , dear , I believe ?
Eyes do n't trouble you any more , do they ? ''
`` Not at all , thank you , ma'am .
I 'm very well , and mean to do great thing next winter , so that I may be ready for Rome , whenever that joyful time arrive . ''
`` Good girl !
You deserve to go , and I 'm sure you will some day , '' say Aunt March , with an approve pat on the head , a Amy pick up her ball for her .
Crosspatch , draw the latch , Sit by the fire and spin , squall Polly , bend down from his perch on the back of her chair to peep into Jo 's face , with such a comical air of impertinent inquiry that it be impossible to help laughing .
`` Most observing bird , '' say the old lady .
`` Come and take a walk , my dear ? ''
cry Polly , hop toward the china closet , with a look suggestive of a lump of sugar .
`` Thank you , I will .
Come Amy . ''
and Jo bring the visit to an end , feel more strongly than ever that call do have a bad effect upon her constitution .
She shake hand in a gentlemanly manner , but Amy kiss both the aunt , and the girl depart , leave behind them the impression of shadow and sunshine , which impression cause Aunt March to say , a they vanish ... `` You 'd better do it , Mary .
I 'll supply the money . ''
and Aunt Carrol to reply decidedly , `` I certainly will , if her father and mother consent . ''
CHAPTER THIRTY CONSEQUENCES Mrs. Chester 's fair be so very elegant and select that it be consider a great honor by the young lady of the neighborhood to be invite to take a table , and everyone be much interested in the matter .
Amy be ask , but Jo be not , which be fortunate for all party , a her elbow be decidedly akimbo at this period of her life , and it take a good many hard knock to teach her how to get on easily .
The ` haughty , uninteresting creature ' be let severely alone , but Amy 's talent and taste be duly compliment by the offer of the art table , and she exert herself to prepare and secure appropriate and valuable contribution to it .
Everything go on smoothly till the day before the fair open , then there occur one of the little skirmish which it be almost impossible to avoid , when some five-and-twenty woman , old and young , with all their private pique and prejudice , try to work together .
May Chester be rather jealous of Amy because the latter be a great favorite than herself , and just at this time several trifle circumstance occur to increase the feeling .
Amy 's dainty pen-and-ink work entirely eclipse May 's painted vas -- that be one thorn .
Then the all conquering Tudor have dance four time with Amy at a late party and only once with May -- that be thorn number two .
But the chief grievance that rankle in her soul , and give an excuse for her unfriendly conduct , be a rumor which some obliging gossip have whisper to her , that the March girl have make fun of her at the Lambs ' .
All the blame of this should have fall upon Jo , for her naughty imitation have be too lifelike to escape detection , and the frolicsome Lambs have permit the joke to escape .
No hint of this have reach the culprit , however , and Amy 's dismay can be imagine , when , the very evening before the fair , a she be put the last touch to her pretty table , Mrs. Chester , who , of course , resent the suppose ridicule of her daughter , say , in a bland tone , but with a cold look ... `` I find , dear , that there be some feeling among the young lady about my give this table to anyone but my girl .
As this be the most prominent , and some say the most attractive table of all , and they be the chief getters-up of the fair , it be think best for them to take this place .
I 'm sorry , but I know you be too sincerely interested in the cause to mind a little personal disappointment , and you shall have another table if you like . ''
Mrs. Chester fancy beforehand that it would be easy to deliver this little speech , but when the time come , she find it rather difficult to utter it naturally , with Amy 's unsuspicious eye look straight at her full of surprise and trouble .
Amy felt that there be something behind this , but could not guess what , and say quietly , feel hurt , and show that she do , `` Perhaps you have rather I take no table at all ? ''
`` Now , my dear , do n't have any ill feeling , I beg .
It 's merely a matter of expediency , you see , my girl will naturally take the lead , and this table be consider their proper place .
I think it very appropriate to you , and feel very grateful for your effort to make it so pretty , but we must give up our private wish , of course , and I will see that you have a good place elsewhere .
Would n't you like the flower table ?
The little girl undertook it , but they be discourage .
You could make a charming thing of it , and the flower table be always attractive you know . ''
`` Especially to gentleman , '' add May , with a look which enlighten Amy a to one cause of her sudden fall from favor .
She color angrily , but take no other notice of that girlish sarcasm , and answer with unexpected amiability ... `` It shall be a you please , Mrs. Chester .
I 'll give up my place here at once , and attend to the flower , if you like . ''
`` You can put your own thing on your own table , if you prefer , '' begin May , feel a little conscience-stricken , a she look at the pretty rack , the painted shell , and quaint illumination Amy have so carefully make and so gracefully arrange .
She mean it kindly , but Amy mistake her meaning , and say quickly ... `` Oh , certainly , if they be in your way , '' and sweep her contribution into her apron , pell-mell , she walk off , feel that herself and her work of art have be insult past forgiveness .
`` Now she 's mad .
Oh , dear , I wish I have n't ask you to speak , Mama , '' say May , look disconsolately at the empty space on her table .
`` Girls ' quarrel be soon over , '' return her mother , feel a trifle ashamed of her own part in this one , a well she might .
The little girl hail Amy and her treasure with delight , which cordial reception somewhat soothe her perturbed spirit , and she fell to work , determine to succeed florally , if she could not artistically .
But everything seem against her .
It be late , and she be tire .
Everyone be too busy with their own affair to help her , and the little girl be only hindrance , for the dear fuss and chatter like so many magpie , make a great deal of confusion in their artless effort to preserve the most perfect order .
The evergreen arch would n't stay firm after she get it up , but wiggle and threaten to tumble down on her head when the hang basket be fill .
Her best tile get a splash of water , which leave a sepia tear on the Cupid 's cheek .
She bruise her hand with hammering , and get cold working in a draft , which last affliction fill her with apprehension for the morrow .
Any girl reader who have suffer like affliction will sympathize with poor Amy and wish her well through her task .
There be great indignation at home when she tell her story that even .
Her mother say it be a shame , but tell her she have do right .
Beth declare she would n't go to the fair at all , and Jo demand why she do n't take all her pretty thing and leave those mean people to get on without her .
`` Because they be mean be no reason why I should be .
I hate such thing , and though I think I 've a right to be hurt , I do n't intend to show it .
They will feel that more than angry speech or huffy action , wo n't they , Marmee ? ''
`` That 's the right spirit , my dear .
A kiss for a blow be always best , though it 's not very easy to give it sometimes , '' say her mother , with the air of one who have learn the difference between preach and practice .
In spite of various very natural temptation to resent and retaliate , Amy adhere to her resolution all the next day , bent on conquer her enemy by kindness .
She begin well , thanks to a silent reminder that come to her unexpectedly , but most opportunely .
As she arrange her table that morning , while the little girl be in the anteroom fill the basket , she take up her pet production , a little book , the antique cover of which her father have find among his treasure , and in which on leaf of vellum she have beautifully illuminate different text .
As she turn the page rich in dainty device with very pardonable pride , her eye fell upon one verse that make her stop and think .
Framed in a brilliant scrollwork of scarlet , blue and gold , with little spirit of good will help one another up and down among the thorn and flower , be the word , `` Thou shalt love thy neighbor a thyself . ''
`` I ought , but I do n't , '' think Amy , a her eye go from the bright page to May 's discontented face behind the big vas , that could not hide the vacancy her pretty work have once fill .
Amy stand a minute , turn the leaf in her hand , read on each some sweet rebuke for all heartburning and uncharitableness of spirit .
Many wise and true sermon be preach u every day by unconscious minister in street , school , office , or home .
Even a fair table may become a pulpit , if it can offer the good and helpful word which be never out of season .
Amy 's conscience preach her a little sermon from that text , then and there , and she do what many of u do not always do , take the sermon to heart , and straightway put it in practice .
A group of girl be stand about May 's table , admire the pretty thing , and talk over the change of saleswoman .
They drop their voice , but Amy know they be speak of her , hear one side of the story and judging accordingly .
It be not pleasant , but a good spirit have come over her , and presently a chance offer for prove it .
She hear May say sorrowfully ... `` It 's too bad , for there be no time to make other thing , and I do n't want to fill up with odds and end .
The table be just complete then .
Now it 's spoil . ''
`` I dare say she 'd put them back if you ask her , '' suggest someone .
`` How could I after all the fuss ? ''
begin May , but she do not finish , for Amy 's voice come across the hall , say pleasantly ... `` You may have them , and welcome , without ask , if you want them .
I be just think I 'd offer to put them back , for they belong to your table rather than mine .
Here they be , please take them , and forgive me if I be hasty in carry them away last night . ''
As she speak , Amy return her contribution , with a nod and a smile , and hurry away again , feel that it be easy to do a friendly thing than it be to stay and be thank for it .
`` Now , I call that lovely of her , do n't you ? ''
cry one girl .
May 's answer be inaudible , but another young lady , whose temper be evidently a little soured by make lemonade , add , with a disagreeable laugh , `` Very lovely , for she know she would n't sell them at her own table . ''
Now , that be hard .
When we make little sacrifice we like to have them appreciate , at least , and for a minute Amy be sorry she have do it , feel that virtue be not always it own reward .
But it be , a she presently discover , for her spirit begin to rise , and her table to blossom under her skillful hand , the girl be very kind , and that one little act seem to have clear the atmosphere amazingly .
It be a very long day and a hard one for Amy , a she sit behind her table , often quite alone , for the little girl desert very soon .
Few care to buy flower in summer , and her bouquet begin to droop long before night .
The art table be the most attractive in the room .
There be a crowd about it all day long , and the tender be constantly fly to and fro with important face and rattle money box .
Amy often look wistfully across , long to be there , where she felt at home and happy , instead of in a corner with nothing to do .
It might seem no hardship to some of u , but to a pretty , blithe young girl , it be not only tedious , but very try , and the thought of Laurie and his friend make it a real martyrdom .
She do not go home till night , and then she look so pale and quiet that they know the day have be a hard one , though she make no complaint , and do not even tell what she have do .
Her mother give her an extra cordial cup of tea .
Beth help her dress , and make a charming little wreath for her hair , while Jo astonish her family by get herself up with unusual care , and hint darkly that the table be about to be turn .
`` Do n't do anything rude , pray Jo ; I wo n't have any fuss make , so let it all pas and behave yourself , '' beg Amy , a she depart early , hop to find a reinforcement of flower to refresh her poor little table .
`` I merely intend to make myself entrancingly agreeable to every one I know , and to keep them in your corner as long a possible .
Teddy and his boy will lend a hand , and we 'll have a good time yet . ''
return Jo , lean over the gate to watch for Laurie .
Presently the familiar tramp be hear in the dusk , and she run out to meet him .
`` Is that my boy ? ''
`` As sure a this be my girl ! ''
and Laurie tuck her hand under his arm with the air of a man whose every wish be gratify .
`` Oh , Teddy , such doings ! ''
and Jo tell Amy 's wrong with sisterly zeal .
`` A flock of our fellow be go to drive over by-and-by , and I 'll be hang if I do n't make them buy every flower she 's get , and camp down before her table afterward , '' say Laurie , espouse her cause with warmth .
`` The flower be not at all nice , Amy say , and the fresh one may not arrive in time .
I do n't wish to be unjust or suspicious , but I should n't wonder if they never come at all .
When people do one mean thing they be very likely to do another , '' observe Jo in a disgusted tone .
`` Did n't Hayes give you the best out of our garden ?
I tell him to . ''
`` I do n't know that , he forget , I suppose , and , a your grandpa be poorly , I do n't like to worry him by ask , though I do want some . ''
`` Now , Jo , how could you think there be any need of ask ?
They be just as much yours a mine .
Do n't we always go half in everything ? ''
begin Laurie , in the tone that always make Jo turn thorny .
`` Gracious , I hope not !
Half of some of your thing would n't suit me at all .
But we must n't stand philander here .
I 've get to help Amy , so you go and make yourself splendid , and if you 'll be so very kind a to let Hayes take a few nice flower up to the Hall , I 'll bless you forever . ''
`` Could n't you do it now ? ''
ask Laurie , so suggestively that Jo shut the gate in his face with inhospitable haste , and call through the bar , `` Go away , Teddy , I 'm busy . ''
Thanks to the conspirator , the table be turn that night , for Hayes send up a wilderness of flower , with a loverly basket arrange in his best manner for a centerpiece .
Then the March family turn out en masse , and Jo exert herself to some purpose , for people not only come , but stay , laugh at her nonsense , admire Amy 's taste , and apparently enjoy themselves very much .
Laurie and his friend gallantly throw themselves into the breach , buy up the bouquet , encamp before the table , and make that corner the lively spot in the room .
Amy be in her element now , and out of gratitude , if nothing more , be a spritely and gracious a possible , come to the conclusion , about that time , that virtue be it own reward , after all .
Jo behave herself with exemplary propriety , and when Amy be happily surround by her guard of honor , Jo circulate about the Hall , pick up various bit of gossip , which enlighten her upon the subject of the Chester change of base .
She reproach herself for her share of the ill feeling and resolve to exonerate Amy as soon a possible .
She also discover what Amy have do about the thing in the morning , and consider her a model of magnanimity .
As she pass the art table , she glance over it for her sister 's thing , but saw no sign of them .
`` Tucked away out of sight , I dare say , '' think Jo , who could forgive her own wrong , but hotly resent any insult offer her family .
`` Good evening , Miss Jo .
How do Amy get on ? ''
ask May with a conciliatory air , for she want to show that she also could be generous .
`` She have sell everything she have that be worth selling , and now she be enjoy herself .
The flower table be always attractive , you know , ` especially to gentleman ' . ''
Jo could n't resist give that little slap , but May take it so meekly she regret it a minute after , and fell to praise the great vas , which still remain unsold .
`` Is Amy 's illumination anywhere about ?
I take a fancy to buy that for Father , '' say Jo , very anxious to learn the fate of her sister 's work .
`` Everything of Amy 's sell long ago .
I take care that the right people saw them , and they make a nice little sum of money for u , '' return May , who have overcome sundry small temptation , as well a Amy have , that day .
Much gratify , Jo rush back to tell the good news , and Amy look both touch and surprise by the report of May 's word and manner .
`` Now , gentleman , I want you to go and do your duty by the other table as generously a you have by mine , especially the art table , '' she say , order out ` Teddy 's own ' , a the girl call the college friend . ''
` Charge , Chester , charge ! '
be the motto for that table , but do your duty like men , and you 'll get your money 's worth of art in every sense of the word , '' say the irrepressible Jo , a the devoted phalanx prepare to take the field .
`` To hear be to obey , but March be fair far than May , '' say little Parker , make a frantic effort to be both witty and tender , and get promptly quench by Laurie , who say ... `` Very well , my son , for a small boy ! ''
and walk him off , with a paternal pat on the head .
`` Buy the vas , '' whisper Amy to Laurie , a a final heaping of coal of fire on her enemy 's head .
To May 's great delight , Mr. Laurence not only buy the vas , but pervade the hall with one under each arm .
The other gentleman speculate with equal rashness in all sort of frail trifle , and wander helplessly about afterward , burden with wax flower , paint fan , filigree portfolio , and other useful and appropriate purchase .
Aunt Carrol be there , hear the story , look pleased , and say something to Mrs. March in a corner , which make the latter lady beam with satisfaction , and watch Amy with a face full of mingled pride and anxiety , though she do not betray the cause of her pleasure till several day later .
The fair be pronounce a success , and when May bid Amy goodnight , she do not gush a usual , but give her an affectionate kiss , and a look which say ` forgive and forget ' .
That satisfy Amy , and when she get home she find the vas parade on the parlor chimney piece with a great bouquet in each .
`` The reward of merit for a magnanimous March , '' a Laurie announce with a flourish .
`` You 've a deal more principle and generosity and nobleness of character than I ever give you credit for , Amy .
You 've behave sweetly , and I respect you with all my heart , '' say Jo warmly , a they brush their hair together late that night .
`` Yes , we all do , and love her for be so ready to forgive .
It must have be dreadfully hard , after work so long and set your heart on sell your own pretty thing .
I do n't believe I could have do it as kindly a you do , '' add Beth from her pillow .
`` Why , girl , you need n't praise me so .
I only do a I 'd be do by .
You laugh at me when I say I want to be a lady , but I mean a true gentlewoman in mind and manner , and I try to do it as far a I know how .
I ca n't explain exactly , but I want to be above the little meanness and folly and fault that spoil so many woman .
I 'm far from it now , but I do my best , and hope in time to be what Mother be . ''
Amy speak earnestly , and Jo say , with a cordial hug , `` I understand now what you mean , and I 'll never laugh at you again .
You be get on fast than you think , and I 'll take lesson of you in true politeness , for you 've learn the secret , I believe .
Try away , deary , you 'll get your reward some day , and no one will be more delighted than I shall . ''
A week later Amy do get her reward , and poor Jo find it hard to be delight .
A letter come from Aunt Carrol , and Mrs. March 's face be illuminate to such a degree when she read it that Jo and Beth , who be with her , demand what the glad tidings be .
`` Aunt Carrol be go abroad next month , and want ... '' `` Me to go with her ! ''
burst in Jo , fly out of her chair in an uncontrollable rapture .
`` No , dear , not you .
It 's Amy . ''
`` Oh , Mother !
She 's too young , it 's my turn first .
I 've want it so long .
It would do me so much good , and be so altogether splendid .
I must go ! ''
`` I 'm afraid it 's impossible , Jo .
Aunt say Amy , decidedly , and it be not for u to dictate when she offer such a favor . ''
`` It 's always so .
Amy have all the fun and I have all the work .
It be n't fair , oh , it be n't fair ! ''
cry Jo passionately .
`` I 'm afraid it 's partly your own fault , dear .
When Aunt speak to me the other day , she regret your blunt manner and too independent spirit , and here she write , a if quote something you have say -- ' I plan at first to ask Jo , but a ` favor burden her ' , and she ` hate French ' , I think I wo n't venture to invite her .
Amy be more docile , will make a good companion for Flo , and receive gratefully any help the trip may give her . ''
`` Oh , my tongue , my abominable tongue !
Why ca n't I learn to keep it quiet ? ''
groan Jo , remember word which have be her undoing .
When she have hear the explanation of the quoted phrase , Mrs. March say sorrowfully ... `` I wish you could have go , but there be no hope of it this time , so try to bear it cheerfully , and do n't sadden Amy 's pleasure by reproach or regret . ''
`` I 'll try , '' say Jo , wink hard a she kneel down to pick up the basket she have joyfully upset .
`` I 'll take a leaf out of her book , and try not only to seem glad , but to be so , and not grudge her one minute of happiness .
But it wo n't be easy , for it be a dreadful disappointment , '' and poor Jo bedew the little fat pincushion she hold with several very bitter tear .
`` Jo , dear , I 'm very selfish , but I could n't spare you , and I 'm glad you be not go quite yet , '' whisper Beth , embrace her , basket and all , with such a clinging touch and love face that Jo felt comfort in spite of the sharp regret that make her want to box her own ear , and humbly beg Aunt Carrol to burden her with this favor , and see how gratefully she would bear it .
By the time Amy come in , Jo be able to take her part in the family jubilation , not quite as heartily a usual , perhaps , but without repinings at Amy 's good fortune .
The young lady herself receive the news a tidings of great joy , go about in a solemn sort of rapture , and begin to sort her color and pack her pencil that even , leave such trifle a clothes , money , and passport to those less absorbed in vision of art than herself .
`` It be n't a mere pleasure trip to me , girl , '' she say impressively , a she scrap her best palette .
`` It will decide my career , for if I have any genius , I shall find it out in Rome , and will do something to prove it . ''
`` Suppose you have n't ? ''
say Jo , sew away , with red eye , at the new collar which be to be hand over to Amy .
`` Then I shall come home and teach drawing for my living , '' reply the aspirant for fame , with philosophic composure .
But she make a wry face at the prospect , and scratch away at her palette a if bent on vigorous measure before she give up her hope .
`` No , you wo n't .
You hate hard work , and you 'll marry some rich man , and come home to sit in the lap of luxury all your day , '' say Jo .
`` Your prediction sometimes come to pass , but I do n't believe that one will .
I 'm sure I wish it would , for if I ca n't be an artist myself , I should like to be able to help those who be , '' say Amy , smile , a if the part of Lady Bountiful would suit her good than that of a poor draw teacher .
`` Hum ! ''
say Jo , with a sigh .
`` If you wish it you 'll have it , for your wish be always grant -- mine never . ''
`` Would you like to go ? ''
ask Amy , thoughtfully pat her nose with her knife .
`` Rather ! ''
`` Well , in a year or two I 'll send for you , and we 'll dig in the Forum for relic , and carry out all the plan we 've make so many time . ''
`` Thank you .
I 'll remind you of your promise when that joyful day come , if it ever do , '' return Jo , accept the vague but magnificent offer as gratefully a she could .
There be not much time for preparation , and the house be in a ferment till Amy be off .
Jo bore up very well till the last flutter of blue ribbon vanish , when she retire to her refuge , the garret , and cry till she could n't cry any more .
Amy likewise bore up stoutly till the steamer sail .
Then just a the gangway be about to be withdraw , it suddenly come over her that a whole ocean be soon to roll between her and those who love her best , and she cling to Laurie , the last lingerer , say with a sob ... `` Oh , take care of them for me , and if anything should happen ... '' `` I will , dear , I will , and if anything happen , I 'll come and comfort you , '' whisper Laurie , little dreaming that he would be call upon to keep his word .
So Amy sail away to find the Old World , which be always new and beautiful to young eye , while her father and friend watch her from the shore , fervently hop that none but gentle fortune would befall the happy-hearted girl , who wave her hand to them till they could see nothing but the summer sunshine dazzling on the sea .
CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE OUR FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT London Dearest People , Here I really sit at a front window of the Bath Hotel , Piccadilly .
It 's not a fashionable place , but Uncle stop here year ago , and wo n't go anywhere else .
However , we do n't mean to stay long , so it 's no great matter .
Oh , I ca n't begin to tell you how I enjoy it all !
I never can , so I 'll only give you bits out of my notebook , for I 've do nothing but sketch and scribble since I start .
I send a line from Halifax , when I felt pretty miserable , but after that I get on delightfully , seldom ill , on deck all day , with plenty of pleasant people to amuse me .
Everyone be very kind to me , especially the officer .
Do n't laugh , Jo , gentleman really be very necessary aboard ship , to hold on to , or to wait upon one , and a they have nothing to do , it 's a mercy to make them useful , otherwise they would smoke themselves to death , I 'm afraid .
Aunt and Flo be poorly all the way , and like to be let alone , so when I have do what I could for them , I go and enjoy myself .
Such walk on deck , such sunset , such splendid air and wave !
It be almost as exciting a rid a fast horse , when we go rush on so grandly .
I wish Beth could have come , it would have do her so much good .
As for Jo , she would have go up and sit on the maintop jib , or whatever the high thing be call , make friend with the engineer , and toot on the captain 's speaking trumpet , she 'd have be in such a state of rapture .
It be all heavenly , but I be glad to see the Irish coast , and find it very lovely , so green and sunny , with brown cabin here and there , ruin on some of the hill , and gentleman 's countryseat in the valley , with deer feeding in the park .
It be early in the morning , but I do n't regret get up to see it , for the bay be full of little boat , the shore so picturesque , and a rosy sky overhead .
I never shall forget it .
At Queenstown one of my new acquaintance leave u , Mr. Lennox , and when I say something about the Lakes of Killarney , he sigh , and sung , with a look at me ... `` Oh , have you e'er hear of Kate Kearney ?
She live on the bank of Killarney ; From the glance of her eye , Shun danger and fly , For fatal 's the glance of Kate Kearney . ''
Was n't that nonsensical ?
We only stop at Liverpool a few hour .
It 's a dirty , noisy place , and I be glad to leave it .
Uncle rush out and buy a pair of dogskin glove , some ugly , thick shoe , and an umbrella , and get shave  la mutton chop , the first thing .
Then he flatter himself that he look like a true Briton , but the first time he have the mud clean off his shoe , the little bootblack know that an American stood in them , and say , with a grin , `` There yer har , sir .
I 've give 'em the late Yankee shine . ''
It amuse Uncle immensely .
Oh , I must tell you what that absurd Lennox do !
He get his friend Ward , who come on with u , to order a bouquet for me , and the first thing I saw in my room be a lovely one , with `` Robert Lennox 's compliment , '' on the card .
Was n't that fun , girl ?
I like travel .
I never shall get to London if I do n't hurry .
The trip be like rid through a long picture gallery , full of lovely landscape .
The farmhouse be my delight , with thatched roof , ivy up to the eaves , latticed window , and stout woman with rosy child at the door .
The very cattle look more tranquil than ours , a they stand knee-deep in clover , and the hen have a contented cluck , a if they never get nervous like Yankee biddy .
Such perfect color I never saw , the grass so green , sky so blue , grain so yellow , wood so dark , I be in a rapture all the way .
So be Flo , and we keep bounce from one side to the other , try to see everything while we be whisk along at the rate of sixty mile an hour .
Aunt be tire and go to sleep , but Uncle read his guidebook , and would n't be astonish at anything .
This be the way we go on .
Amy , fly up -- `` Oh , that must be Kenilworth , that gray place among the tree ! ''
Flo , dart to my window -- `` How sweet !
We must go there sometime , wo n't we Papa ? ''
Uncle , calmly admire his boot -- `` No , my dear , not unless you want beer , that 's a brewery . ''
A pause -- then Flo cry out , `` Bless me , there 's a gallows and a man go up . ''
`` Where , where ? ''
shriek Amy , star out at two tall post with a crossbeam and some dangling chain .
`` A colliery , '' remark Uncle , with a twinkle of the eye .
`` Here 's a lovely flock of lamb all lie down , '' say Amy .
`` See , Papa , be n't they pretty ? ''
add Flo sentimentally .
`` Geese , young lady , '' return Uncle , in a tone that keep u quiet till Flo settle down to enjoy the Flirtations of Captain Cavendish , and I have the scenery all to myself .
Of course it rain when we get to London , and there be nothing to be see but fog and umbrella .
We rest , unpacked , and shop a little between the shower .
Aunt Mary get me some new thing , for I come off in such a hurry I be n't half ready .
A white hat and blue feather , a muslin dress to match , and the lovely mantle you ever saw .
Shopping in Regent Street be perfectly splendid .
Things seem so cheap , nice ribbon only sixpence a yard .
I lay in a stock , but shall get my glove in Paris .
Does n't that sound sort of elegant and rich ?
Flo and I , for the fun of it , order a hansom cab , while Aunt and Uncle be out , and go for a drive , though we learn afterward that it be n't the thing for young lady to ride in them alone .
It be so droll !
For when we be shut in by the wooden apron , the man drive so fast that Flo be frighten , and tell me to stop him , but he be up outside behind somewhere , and I could n't get at him .
He do n't hear me call , nor see me flap my parasol in front , and there we be , quite helpless , rattle away , and whirl around corner at a breakneck pace .
At last , in my despair , I saw a little door in the roof , and on poke it open , a red eye appear , and a beery voice say ... `` Now , then , mum ? ''
I give my order as soberly a I could , and slam down the door , with an `` Aye , aye , mum , '' the man make his horse walk , a if go to a funeral .
I poke again and say , `` A little faster , '' then off he go , helter-skelter a before , and we resign ourselves to our fate .
Today be fair , and we go to Hyde Park , close by , for we be more aristocratic than we look .
The Duke of Devonshire live near .
I often see his footman lounge at the back gate , and the Duke of Wellington 's house be not far off .
Such sight a I saw , my dear !
It be as good a Punch , for there be fat dowager roll about in their red and yellow coach , with gorgeous Jeameses in silk stocking and velvet coat , up behind , and powder coachman in front .
Smart maid , with the rosy child I ever saw , handsome girl , look half asleep , dandy in queer English hat and lavender kid lounge about , and tall soldier , in short red jacket and muffin cap stick on one side , look so funny I long to sketch them .
Rotten Row mean ` Route de Roi ' , or the king 's way , but now it 's more like a rid school than anything else .
The horse be splendid , and the men , especially the groom , ride well , but the woman be stiff , and bounce , which be n't accord to our rule .
I long to show them a tearing American gallop , for they trot solemnly up and down , in their scant habit and high hat , look like the woman in a toy Noah 's Ark . .
Everyone ride -- old men , stout lady , little child -- and the young folk do a deal of flirt here , I saw a pair exchange rise bud , for it 's the thing to wear one in the button-hole , and I think it rather a nice little idea .
In the P.M. to Westminster Abbey , but do n't expect me to describe it , that 's impossible , so I 'll only say it be sublime !
This evening we be go to see Fechter , which will be an appropriate end to the happy day of my life .
It 's very late , but I ca n't let my letter go in the morning without tell you what happen last evening .
Who do you think come in , a we be at tea ?
Laurie 's English friend , Fred and Frank Vaughn !
I be so surprised , for I should n't have know them but for the card .
Both be tall fellow with whisker , Fred handsome in the English style , and Frank much good , for he only limp slightly , and use no crutch .
They have hear from Laurie where we be to be , and come to ask u to their house , but Uncle wo n't go , so we shall return the call , and see them a we can .
They go to the theater with u , and we do have such a good time , for Frank devote himself to Flo , and Fred and I talk over past , present , and future fun a if we have know each other all our day .
Tell Beth Frank ask for her , and be sorry to hear of her ill health .
Fred laugh when I speak of Jo , and send his ` respectful compliment to the big hat ' .
Neither of them have forget Camp Laurence , or the fun we have there .
What age ago it seem , do n't it ?
Aunt be tap on the wall for the third time , so I must stop .
I really feel like a dissipated London fine lady , write here so late , with my room full of pretty thing , and my head a jumble of park , theater , new gown , and gallant creature who say `` Ah ! ''
and twirl their blond mustache with the true English lordliness .
I long to see you all , and in spite of my nonsense be , a ever , your love ... AMY PARIS Dear girl , In my last I tell you about our London visit , how kind the Vaughns be , and what pleasant party they make for u .
I enjoy the trip to Hampton Court and the Kensington Museum more than anything else , for at Hampton I saw Raphael 's cartoon , and at the Museum , room full of picture by Turner , Lawrence , Reynolds , Hogarth , and the other great creature .
The day in Richmond Park be charm , for we have a regular English picnic , and I have more splendid oak and group of deer than I could copy , also hear a nightingale , and saw lark go up .
We ` do ' London to our heart 's content , thanks to Fred and Frank , and be sorry to go away , for though English people be slow to take you in , when they once make up their mind to do it they can not be outdo in hospitality , I think .
The Vaughns hope to meet u in Rome next winter , and I shall be dreadfully disappointed if they do n't , for Grace and I be great friend , and the boy very nice fellow , especially Fred .
Well , we be hardly settle here , when he turn up again , say he have come for a holiday , and be go to Switzerland .
Aunt look sober at first , but he be so cool about it she could n't say a word .
And now we get on nicely , and be very glad he come , for he speak French like a native , and I do n't know what we should do without him .
Uncle do n't know ten word , and insists on talk English very loud , a if it would make people understand him .
Aunt 's pronunciation be old-fashioned , and Flo and I , though we flatter ourselves that we know a good deal , find we do n't , and be very grateful to have Fred do the ' parley vooing ' , a Uncle call it .
Such delightful time a we be have !
Sight-seeing from morning till night , stop for nice lunch in the gay cafe , and meet with all sort of droll adventure .
Rainy day I spend in the Louvre , revel in picture .
Jo would turn up her naughty nose at some of the fine , because she have no soul for art , but I have , and I 'm cultivate eye and taste as fast a I can .
She would like the relic of great people well , for I 've see her Napoleon 's cock hat and gray coat , his baby 's cradle and his old toothbrush , also Marie Antoinette 's little shoe , the ring of Saint Denis , Charlemagne 's sword , and many other interesting thing .
I 'll talk for hour about them when I come , but have n't time to write .
The Palais Royale be a heavenly place , so full of bijouterie and lovely thing that I 'm nearly distract because I ca n't buy them .
Fred want to get me some , but of course I do n't allow it .
Then the Bois and Champs Elysees be tres magnifique .
I 've see the imperial family several time , the emperor an ugly , hard-looking man , the empress pale and pretty , but dress in bad taste , I think -- purple dress , green hat , and yellow glove .
Little Nap be a handsome boy , who sit chat to his tutor , and kiss his hand to the people a he pass in his four-horse barouche , with postilion in red satin jacket and a mounted guard before and behind .
We often walk in the Tuileries Gardens , for they be lovely , though the antique Luxembourg Gardens suit me good .
Pere la Chaise be very curious , for many of the tomb be like small room , and look in , one see a table , with image or picture of the dead , and chair for the mourner to sit in when they come to lament .
That be so Frenchy .
Our room be on the Rue de Rivoli , and sit on the balcony , we look up and down the long , brilliant street .
It be so pleasant that we spend our evening talk there when too tire with our day 's work to go out .
Fred be very entertaining , and be altogether the most agreeable young man I ever know -- except Laurie , whose manner be more charming .
I wish Fred be dark , for I do n't fancy light men , however , the Vaughns be very rich and come of an excellent family , so I wo n't find fault with their yellow hair , a my own be yellow .
Next week we be off to Germany and Switzerland , and a we shall travel fast , I shall only be able to give you hasty letter .
I keep my diary , and try to ` remember correctly and describe clearly all that I see and admire ' , a Father advise .
It be good practice for me , and with my sketchbook will give you a good idea of my tour than these scribble .
Adieu , I embrace you tenderly .
`` Votre Amie . ''
HEIDELBERG My dear Mamma , Having a quiet hour before we leave for Berne , I 'll try to tell you what have happen , for some of it be very important , a you will see .
The sail up the Rhine be perfect , and I just sit and enjoy it with all my might .
Get Father 's old guidebook and read about it .
I have n't word beautiful enough to describe it .
At Coblentz we have a lovely time , for some student from Bonn , with whom Fred get acquaint on the boat , give u a serenade .
It be a moonlight night , and about one o'clock Flo and I be wake by the most delicious music under our window .
We fly up , and hid behind the curtain , but sly peep show u Fred and the student sing away down below .
It be the most romantic thing I ever saw -- the river , the bridge of boat , the great fortress opposite , moonlight everywhere , and music fit to melt a heart of stone .
When they be do we throw down some flower , and saw them scramble for them , kiss their hand to the invisible lady , and go laugh away , to smoke and drink beer , I suppose .
Next morning Fred show me one of the crumpled flower in his vest pocket , and look very sentimental .
I laugh at him , and say I do n't throw it , but Flo , which seem to disgust him , for he toss it out of the window , and turn sensible again .
I 'm afraid I 'm go to have trouble with that boy , it begin to look like it .
The bath at Nassau be very gay , so be Baden-Baden , where Fred lose some money , and I scold him .
He need someone to look after him when Frank be not with him .
Kate say once she hop he 'd marry soon , and I quite agree with her that it would be well for him .
Frankfurt be delightful .
I saw Goethe 's house , Schiller 's statue , and Dannecker 's famous ` Ariadne . '
It be very lovely , but I should have enjoy it more if I have know the story well .
I do n't like to ask , a everyone know it or pretend they do .
I wish Jo would tell me all about it .
I ought to have read more , for I find I do n't know anything , and it mortify me .
Now come the serious part , for it happen here , and Fred have just go .
He have be so kind and jolly that we all get quite fond of him .
I never think of anything but a travel friendship till the serenade night .
Since then I 've begin to feel that the moonlight walk , balcony talk , and daily adventure be something more to him than fun .
I have n't flirt , Mother , truly , but remember what you say to me , and have do my very best .
I ca n't help it if people like me .
I do n't try to make them , and it worry me if I do n't care for them , though Jo say I have n't get any heart .
Now I know Mother will shake her head , and the girl say , `` Oh , the mercenary little wretch ! ''
, but I 've make up my mind , and if Fred ask me , I shall accept him , though I 'm not madly in love .
I like him , and we get on comfortably together .
He be handsome , young , clever enough , and very rich -- ever so much rich than the Laurences .
I do n't think his family would object , and I should be very happy , for they be all kind , well-bred , generous people , and they like me .
Fred , a the eldest twin , will have the estate , I suppose , and such a splendid one it be !
A city house in a fashionable street , not so showy a our big house , but twice a comfortable and full of solid luxury , such a English people believe in .
I like it , for it 's genuine .
I 've see the plate , the family jewel , the old servant , and picture of the country place , with it park , great house , lovely ground , and fine horse .
Oh , it would be all I should ask !
And I 'd rather have it than any title such a girl snap up so readily , and find nothing behind .
I may be mercenary , but I hate poverty , and do n't mean to bear it a minute long than I can help .
One of u must marry well .
Meg do n't , Jo wo n't , Beth ca n't yet , so I shall , and make everything okay all round .
I would n't marry a man I hat or despise .
You may be sure of that , and though Fred be not my model hero , he do very well , and in time I should get fond enough of him if he be very fond of me , and let me do just a I like .
So I 've be turn the matter over in my mind the last week , for it be impossible to help see that Fred like me .
He say nothing , but little thing show it .
He never go with Flo , always get on my side of the carriage , table , or promenade , look sentimental when we be alone , and frown at anyone else who venture to speak to me .
Yesterday at dinner , when an Austrian officer star at u and then say something to his friend , a rakish-looking baron , about ' ein wonderschones Blondchen ' , Fred look as fierce a a lion , and cut his meat so savagely it nearly fly off his plate .
He be n't one of the cool , stiff Englishmen , but be rather peppery , for he have Scotch blood in him , a one might guess from his bonnie blue eye .
Well , last evening we go up to the castle about sunset , at least all of u but Fred , who be to meet u there after go to the Post Restante for letter .
We have a charming time poke about the ruin , the vault where the monster tun be , and the beautiful garden make by the elector long ago for his English wife .
I like the great terrace best , for the view be divine , so while the rest go to see the room inside , I sit there try to sketch the gray stone lion 's head on the wall , with scarlet woodbine spray hang round it .
I felt a if I 'd get into a romance , sit there , watch the Neckar rolling through the valley , listen to the music of the Austrian band below , and wait for my lover , like a real storybook girl .
I have a feeling that something be go to happen and I be ready for it .
I do n't feel blushy or quakey , but quite cool and only a little excited .
By-and-by I hear Fred 's voice , and then he come hurry through the great arch to find me .
He look so troubled that I forget all about myself , and ask what the matter be .
He say he 'd just get a letter beg him to come home , for Frank be very ill .
So he be go at once on the night train and only have time to say good-by .
I be very sorry for him , and disappoint for myself , but only for a minute because he say , a he shake hand , and say it in a way that I could not mistake , `` I shall soon come back , you wo n't forget me , Amy ? ''
I do n't promise , but I look at him , and he seem satisfied , and there be no time for anything but message and good-bye , for he be off in an hour , and we all miss him very much .
I know he want to speak , but I think , from something he once hint , that he have promise his father not to do anything of the sort yet a while , for he be a rash boy , and the old gentleman dread a foreign daughter-in-law .
We shall soon meet in Rome , and then , if I do n't change my mind , I 'll say `` Yes , thank you , '' when he say `` Will you , please ? ''
Of course this be all very private , but I wish you to know what be go on .
Do n't be anxious about me , remember I be your ` prudent Amy ' , and be sure I will do nothing rashly .
Send me a much advice a you like .
I 'll use it if I can .
I wish I could see you for a good talk , Marmee .
Love and trust me .
Ever your AMY CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO TENDER TROUBLES `` Jo , I 'm anxious about Beth . ''
`` Why , Mother , she have seem unusually well since the baby come . ''
`` It 's not her health that trouble me now , it 's her spirit .
I 'm sure there be something on her mind , and I want you to discover what it be . ''
`` What make you think so , Mother ? ''
`` She sit alone a good deal , and do n't talk to her father as much a she use .
I find her cry over the baby the other day .
When she sing , the song be always sad one , and now and then I see a look in her face that I do n't understand .
This be n't like Beth , and it worry me . ''
`` Have you ask her about it ? ''
`` I have try once or twice , but she either evade my question or look so distressed that I stop .
I never force my child 's confidence , and I seldom have to wait for long . ''
Mrs. March glance at Jo a she speak , but the face opposite seem quite unconscious of any secret disquietude but Beth 's , and after sew thoughtfully for a minute , Jo say , `` I think she be grow up , and so begin to dream dream , and have hope and fear and fidget , without know why or be able to explain them .
Why , Mother , Beth 's eighteen , but we do n't realize it , and treat her like a child , forget she 's a woman . ''
`` So she be .
Dear heart , how fast you do grow up , '' return her mother with a sigh and a smile .
`` Ca n't be help , Marmee , so you must resign yourself to all sort of worry , and let your bird hop out of the nest , one by one .
I promise never to hop very far , if that be any comfort to you . ''
`` It 's a great comfort , Jo .
I always feel strong when you be at home , now Meg be go .
Beth be too feeble and Amy too young to depend upon , but when the tug come , you be always ready . ''
`` Why , you know I do n't mind hard job much , and there must always be one scrub in a family .
Amy be splendid in fine work and I 'm not , but I feel in my element when all the carpet be to be take up , or half the family fall sick at once .
Amy be distinguish herself abroad , but if anything be amiss at home , I 'm your man . ''
`` I leave Beth to your hand , then , for she will open her tender little heart to her Jo sooner than to anyone else .
Be very kind , and do n't let her think anyone watch or talk about her .
If she only would get quite strong and cheerful again , I should n't have a wish in the world . ''
`` Happy woman !
I 've get heap . ''
`` My dear , what be they ? ''
`` I 'll settle Bethy 's trouble , and then I 'll tell you mine .
They be not very wearing , so they 'll keep . ''
and Jo stitch away , with a wise nod which set her mother 's heart at rest about her for the present at least .
While apparently absorb in her own affair , Jo watch Beth , and after many conflict conjecture , finally settle upon one which seem to explain the change in her .
A slight incident give Jo the clue to the mystery , she think , and lively fancy , loving heart do the rest .
She be affect to write busily one Saturday afternoon , when she and Beth be alone together .
Yet a she scribble , she keep her eye on her sister , who seem unusually quiet .
Sitting at the window , Beth 's work often drop into her lap , and she lean her head upon her hand , in a dejected attitude , while her eye rest on the dull , autumnal landscape .
Suddenly some one pass below , whistle like an operatic blackbird , and a voice call out , `` All serene !
Coming in tonight . ''
Beth start , lean forward , smile and nod , watch the passer-by till his quick tramp die away , then say softly a if to herself , `` How strong and well and happy that dear boy look . ''
`` Hum ! ''
say Jo , still intent upon her sister 's face , for the bright color fade as quickly a it come , the smile vanish , and presently a tear lay shin on the window ledge .
Beth whisk it off , and in her half-averted face read a tender sorrow that make her own eye fill .
Fearing to betray herself , she slip away , murmur something about need more paper .
`` Mercy on me , Beth love Laurie ! ''
she say , sit down in her own room , pale with the shock of the discovery which she believe she have just make .
`` I never dream of such a thing .
What will Mother say ?
I wonder if her ... '' there Jo stop and turn scarlet with a sudden thought .
`` If he should n't love back again , how dreadful it would be .
He must .
I 'll make him ! ''
and she shake her head threateningly at the picture of the mischievous-looking boy laughing at her from the wall .
`` Oh dear , we be grow up with a vengeance .
Here 's Meg marry and a mamma , Amy flourish away at Paris , and Beth in love .
I 'm the only one that have sense enough to keep out of mischief . ''
Jo think intently for a minute with her eye fix on the picture , then she smooth out her wrinkled forehead and say , with a decided nod at the face opposite , `` No thank you , sir , you 're very charming , but you 've no more stability than a weathercock .
So you need n't write touch note and smile in that insinuate way , for it wo n't do a bit of good , and I wo n't have it . ''
Then she sigh , and fell into a reverie from which she do not wake till the early twilight send her down to take new observation , which only confirm her suspicion .
Though Laurie flirt with Amy and joke with Jo , his manner to Beth have always be peculiarly kind and gentle , but so be everybody 's .
Therefore , no one thought of imagine that he care more for her than for the others .
Indeed , a general impression have prevail in the family of late that ` our boy ' be get fonder than ever of Jo , who , however , would n't hear a word upon the subject and scold violently if anyone dare to suggest it .
If they have know the various tender passage which have be nip in the bud , they would have have the immense satisfaction of say , `` I tell you so . ''
But Jo hat ` philander ' , and would n't allow it , always have a joke or a smile ready at the least sign of impend danger .
When Laurie first go to college , he fell in love about once a month , but these small flame be as brief a ardent , do no damage , and much amuse Jo , who take great interest in the alternation of hope , despair , and resignation , which be confide to her in their weekly conference .
But there come a time when Laurie cease to worship at many shrine , hint darkly at one all-absorbing passion , and indulge occasionally in Byronic fit of gloom .
Then he avoid the tender subject altogether , write philosophical note to Jo , turn studious , and give out that he be go to ` dig ' , intend to graduate in a blaze of glory .
This suit the young lady well than twilight confidence , tender pressure of the hand , and eloquent glance of the eye , for with Jo , brain develop early than heart , and she prefer imaginary hero to real one , because when tire of them , the former could be shut up in the tin kitchen till call for , and the latter be less manageable .
Things be in this state when the grand discovery be make , and Jo watch Laurie that night a she have never do before .
If she have not get the new idea into her head , she would have see nothing unusual in the fact that Beth be very quiet , and Laurie very kind to her .
But have give the rein to her lively fancy , it gallop away with her at a great pace , and common sense , be rather weaken by a long course of romance writing , do not come to the rescue .
As usual Beth lay on the sofa and Laurie sit in a low chair close by , amuse her with all sort of gossip , for she depend on her weekly ` spin ' , and he never disappoint her .
But that even Jo fancy that Beth 's eye rest on the lively , dark face beside her with peculiar pleasure , and that she listen with intense interest to an account of some excite cricket match , though the phrase , ` catch off a tice ' , ` stump off his ground ' , and ` the leg hit for three ' , be a intelligible to her a Sanskrit .
She also fancy , have set her heart upon see it , that she saw a certain increase of gentleness in Laurie 's manner , that he drop his voice now and then , laugh less than usual , be a little absent-minded , and settle the afghan over Beth 's foot with an assiduity that be really almost tender .
`` Who know ?
Stranger thing have happen , '' think Jo , a she fuss about the room .
`` She will make quite an angel of him , and he will make life delightfully easy and pleasant for the dear , if they only love each other .
I do n't see how he can help it , and I do believe he would if the rest of u be out of the way . ''
As everyone be out of the way but herself , Jo begin to feel that she ought to dispose of herself with all speed .
But where should she go ?
And burn to lay herself upon the shrine of sisterly devotion , she sit down to settle that point .
Now , the old sofa be a regular patriarch of a sofa -- long , broad , well-cushioned , and low , a trifle shabby , as well it might be , for the girl have sleep and sprawl on it a baby , fish over the back , rode on the arm , and have menagerie under it a child , and rest tired head , dreamed dream , and listen to tender talk on it a young woman .
They all love it , for it be a family refuge , and one corner have always be Jo 's favorite lounging place .
Among the many pillow that adorn the venerable couch be one , hard , round , cover with prickly horsehair , and furnish with a knobby button at each end .
This repulsive pillow be her especial property , be use a a weapon of defense , a barricade , or a stern preventive of too much slumber .
Laurie know this pillow well , and have cause to regard it with deep aversion , have be unmercifully pummel with it in former day when romping be allow , and now frequently debar by it from the seat he most coveted next to Jo in the sofa corner .
If ` the sausage ' a they call it , stand on end , it be a sign that he might approach and repose , but if it lay flat across the sofa , woe to man , woman , or child who dare disturb it !
That even Jo forget to barricade her corner , and have not be in her seat five minute , before a massive form appear beside her , and with both arm spread over the sofa back , both long leg stretch out before him , Laurie exclaim , with a sigh of satisfaction ... `` Now , this be fill at the price . ''
`` No slang , '' snap Jo , slam down the pillow .
But it be too late , there be no room for it , and coast onto the floor , it disappear in a most mysterious manner .
`` Come , Jo , do n't be thorny .
After study himself to a skeleton all the week , a fellow deserves pet and ought to get it . ''
`` Beth will pet you .
I 'm busy . ''
`` No , she 's not to be bother with me , but you like that sort of thing , unless you 've suddenly lose your taste for it .
Have you ?
Do you hate your boy , and want to fire pillow at him ? ''
Anything more wheedlesome than that touch appeal be seldom hear , but Jo quench ` her boy ' by turn on him with a stern query , `` How many bouquet have you send Miss Randal this week ? ''
`` Not one , upon my word .
She 's engage .
Now then . ''
`` I 'm glad of it , that 's one of your foolish extravagance , send flower and thing to girl for whom you do n't care two pin , '' continue Jo reprovingly .
`` Sensible girl for whom I do care whole paper of pin wo n't let me send them ` flower and thing ' , so what can I do ?
My feeling need a ` vent ' . ''
`` Mother do n't approve of flirt even in fun , and you do flirt desperately , Teddy . ''
`` I 'd give anything if I could answer , ` So do you ' .
As I ca n't , I 'll merely say that I do n't see any harm in that pleasant little game , if all party understand that it 's only play . ''
`` Well , it do look pleasant , but I ca n't learn how it 's do .
I 've try , because one feel awkward in company not to do a everybody else be do , but I do n't seem to get on '' , say Jo , forget to play mentor .
`` Take lesson of Amy , she have a regular talent for it . ''
`` Yes , she do it very prettily , and never seem to go too far .
I suppose it 's natural to some people to please without try , and others to always say and do the wrong thing in the wrong place . ''
`` I 'm glad you ca n't flirt .
It 's really refreshing to see a sensible , straightforward girl , who can be jolly and kind without make a fool of herself .
Between ourselves , Jo , some of the girl I know really do go on at such a rate I 'm ashamed of them .
They do n't mean any harm , I 'm sure , but if they know how we fellows talk about them afterward , they 'd mend their way , I fancy . ''
`` They do the same , and a their tongue be the sharp , you fellows get the bad of it , for you be as silly a they , every bit .
If you behave properly , they would , but know you like their nonsense , they keep it up , and then you blame them . ''
`` Much you know about it , ma'am , '' say Laurie in a superior tone .
`` We do n't like romp and flirt , though we may act a if we do sometimes .
The pretty , modest girl be never talk about , except respectfully , among gentleman .
Bless your innocent soul !
If you could be in my place for a month you 'd see thing that would astonish you a trifle .
Upon my word , when I see one of those harum-scarum girl , I always want to say with our friend Cock Robin ... `` Out upon you , fie upon you , Bold-faced jig ! ''
It be impossible to help laugh at the funny conflict between Laurie 's chivalrous reluctance to speak ill of womankind , and his very natural dislike of the unfeminine folly of which fashionable society show him many sample .
Jo know that ` young Laurence ' be regard a a most eligible parti by worldly mama , be much smile upon by their daughter , and flatter enough by lady of all age to make a coxcomb of him , so she watch him rather jealously , fear he would be spoil , and rejoice more than she confess to find that he still believe in modest girl .
Returning suddenly to her admonitory tone , she say , drop her voice , `` If you must have a ` vent ' , Teddy , go and devote yourself to one of the ` pretty , modest girl ' whom you do respect , and not waste your time with the silly one . ''
`` You really advise it ? ''
and Laurie look at her with an odd mixture of anxiety and merriment in his face .
`` Yes , I do , but you 'd better wait till you be through college , on the whole , and be fit yourself for the place meantime .
You 're not half good enough for -- well , whoever the modest girl may be . ''
and Jo look a little queer likewise , for a name have almost escape her .
`` That I 'm not ! ''
acquiesce Laurie , with an expression of humility quite new to him , a he drop his eye and absently wind Jo 's apron tassel round his finger .
`` Mercy on u , this will never do , '' think Jo , add aloud , `` Go and sing to me .
I 'm die for some music , and always like yours . ''
`` I 'd rather stay here , thank you . ''
`` Well , you ca n't , there be n't room .
Go and make yourself useful , since you be too big to be ornamental .
I think you hat to be tie to a woman 's apron string ? ''
retort Jo , quote certain rebellious word of his own .
`` Ah , that depend on who wear the apron ! ''
and Laurie give an audacious tweak at the tassel .
`` Are you go ? ''
demand Jo , dive for the pillow .
He flee at once , and the minute it be well , `` Up with the bonnet of bonnie Dundee , '' she slip away to return no more till the young gentleman depart in high dudgeon .
Jo lay long awake that night , and be just drop off when the sound of a stifled sob make her fly to Beth 's bedside , with the anxious inquiry , `` What be it , dear ? ''
`` I think you be asleep , '' sob Beth .
`` Is it the old pain , my precious ? ''
`` No , it 's a new one , but I can bear it , '' and Beth try to check her tear .
`` Tell me all about it , and let me cure it a I often do the other . ''
`` You ca n't , there be no cure . ''
There Beth 's voice give way , and cling to her sister , she cry so despairingly that Jo be frighten .
`` Where be it ?
Shall I call Mother ? ''
`` No , no , do n't call her , do n't tell her .
I shall be good soon .
Lie down here and ` poor ' my head .
I 'll be quiet and go to sleep , indeed I will . ''
Jo obeyed , but a her hand go softly to and fro across Beth 's hot forehead and wet eyelid , her heart be very full and she long to speak .
But young a she be , Jo have learn that heart , like flower , can not be rudely handle , but must open naturally , so though she believe she know the cause of Beth 's new pain , she only say , in her tenderest tone , `` Does anything trouble you , deary ? ''
`` Yes , Jo , '' after a long pause .
`` Would n't it comfort you to tell me what it be ? ''
`` Not now , not yet . ''
`` Then I wo n't ask , but remember , Bethy , that Mother and Jo be always glad to hear and help you , if they can . ''
`` I know it .
I 'll tell you by-and-by . ''
`` Is the pain well now ? ''
`` Oh , yes , much good , you be so comfortable , Jo . ''
`` Go to sleep , dear .
I 'll stay with you . ''
So cheek to cheek they fell asleep , and on the morrow Beth seem quite herself again , for at eighteen neither head nor heart ache long , and a loving word can medicine most ill .
But Jo have make up her mind , and after ponder over a project for some day , she confide it to her mother .
`` You ask me the other day what my wish be .
I 'll tell you one of them , Marmee , '' she begin , a they sit along together .
`` I want to go away somewhere this winter for a change . ''
`` Why , Jo ? ''
and her mother look up quickly , a if the word suggest a double meaning .
With her eye on her work Jo answer soberly , `` I want something new .
I feel restless and anxious to be see , do , and learn more than I be .
I brood too much over my own small affair , and need stir up , so a I can be spar this winter , I 'd like to hop a little way and try my wing . ''
`` Where will you hop ? ''
`` To New York .
I have a bright idea yesterday , and this be it .
You know Mrs. Kirke write to you for some respectable young person to teach her child and sew .
It 's rather hard to find just the thing , but I think I should suit if I try . ''
`` My dear , go out to service in that great boarding house ! ''
and Mrs. March look surprised , but not displeased .
`` It 's not exactly go out to service , for Mrs. Kirke be your friend -- the kind soul that ever live -- and would make thing pleasant for me , I know .
Her family be separate from the rest , and no one know me there .
Do n't care if they do .
It 's honest work , and I 'm not ashamed of it . ''
`` Nor I .
But your writing ? ''
`` All the good for the change .
I shall see and hear new thing , get new idea , and even if I have n't much time there , I shall bring home quantity of material for my rubbish . ''
`` I have no doubt of it , but be these your only reason for this sudden fancy ? ''
`` No , Mother . ''
`` May I know the others ? ''
Jo look up and Jo look down , then say slowly , with sudden color in her cheek .
`` It may be vain and wrong to say it , but -- I 'm afraid -- Laurie be get too fond of me . ''
`` Then you do n't care for him in the way it be evident he begin to care for you ? ''
and Mrs. March look anxious a she put the question .
`` Mercy , no !
I love the dear boy , a I always have , and be immensely proud of him , but a for anything more , it 's out of the question . ''
`` I 'm glad of that , Jo . ''
`` Why , please ? ''
`` Because , dear , I do n't think you suit to one another .
As friend you be very happy , and your frequent quarrel soon blow over , but I fear you would both rebel if you be mat for life .
You be too much alike and too fond of freedom , not to mention hot temper and strong will , to get on happily together , in a relation which need infinite patience and forbearance , as well a love . ''
`` That 's just the feeling I have , though I could n't express it .
I 'm glad you think he be only begin to care for me .
It would trouble me sadly to make him unhappy , for I could n't fall in love with the dear old fellow merely out of gratitude , could I ? ''
`` You be sure of his feeling for you ? ''
The color deepen in Jo 's cheek a she answer , with the look of mingled pleasure , pride , and pain which young girl wear when speaking of first lover , `` I 'm afraid it be so , Mother .
He have n't say anything , but he look a great deal .
I think I have well go away before it come to anything . ''
`` I agree with you , and if it can be manage you shall go . ''
Jo look relieve , and after a pause , say , smile , `` How Mrs. Moffat would wonder at your want of management , if she know , and how she will rejoice that Annie may still hope . ''
`` Ah , Jo , mother may differ in their management , but the hope be the same in all -- the desire to see their child happy .
Meg be so , and I be content with her success .
You I leave to enjoy your liberty till you tire of it , for only then will you find that there be something sweeter .
Amy be my chief care now , but her good sense will help her .
For Beth , I indulge no hope except that she may be well .
By the way , she seem brighter this last day or two .
Have you speak to her ? '
`` Yes , she own she have a trouble , and promise to tell me by-and-by .
I say no more , for I think I know it , '' and Jo tell her little story .
Mrs. March shake her head , and do not take so romantic a view of the case , but look grave , and repeat her opinion that for Laurie 's sake Jo should go away for a time .
`` Let u say nothing about it to him till the plan be settle , then I 'll run away before he can collect his wit and be tragic .
Beth must think I 'm go to please myself , a I be , for I ca n't talk about Laurie to her .
But she can pet and comfort him after I 'm go , and so cure him of this romantic notion .
He 's be through so many little trial of the sort , he 's use to it , and will soon get over his lovelornity . ''
Jo speak hopefully , but could not rid herself of the forebode fear that this ` little trial ' would be hard than the others , and that Laurie would not get over his ` lovelornity ' as easily a heretofore .
The plan be talk over in a family council and agree upon , for Mrs. Kirke gladly accept Jo , and promise to make a pleasant home for her .
The teaching would render her independent , and such leisure a she get might be make profitable by write , while the new scene and society would be both useful and agreeable .
Jo like the prospect and be eager to be go , for the home nest be grow too narrow for her restless nature and adventurous spirit .
When all be settle , with fear and tremble she tell Laurie , but to her surprise he take it very quietly .
He have be graver than usual of late , but very pleasant , and when jokingly accuse of turn over a new leaf , he answer soberly , `` So I be , and I mean this one shall stay turned . ''
Jo be very much relieve that one of his virtuous fit should come on just then , and make her preparation with a lightened heart , for Beth seem more cheerful , and hop she be do the best for all .
`` One thing I leave in your especial care , '' she say , the night before she leave .
`` You mean your paper ? ''
ask Beth .
`` No , my boy .
Be very good to him , wo n't you ? ''
`` Of course I will , but I ca n't fill your place , and he 'll miss you sadly . ''
`` It wo n't hurt him , so remember , I leave him in your charge , to plague , pet , and keep in order . ''
`` I 'll do my best , for your sake , '' promise Beth , wonder why Jo look at her so queerly .
When Laurie say good-by , he whisper significantly , `` It wo n't do a bit of good , Jo .
My eye be on you , so mind what you do , or I 'll come and bring you home . ''
CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE JO 'S JOURNAL New York , November Dear Marmee and Beth , I 'm go to write you a regular volume , for I 've get heap to tell , though I 'm not a fine young lady travel on the continent .
When I lose sight of Father 's dear old face , I felt a trifle blue , and might have shed a briny drop or two , if an Irish lady with four small child , all cry more or less , have n't divert my mind , for I amuse myself by drop gingerbread nut over the seat every time they open their mouth to roar .
Soon the sun come out , and take it a a good omen , I clear up likewise and enjoy my journey with all my heart .
Mrs. Kirke welcome me so kindly I felt at home at once , even in that big house full of stranger .
She give me a funny little sky parlor -- all she have , but there be a stove in it , and a nice table in a sunny window , so I can sit here and write whenever I like .
A fine view and a church tower opposite atone for the many stair , and I take a fancy to my den on the spot .
The nursery , where I be to teach and sew , be a pleasant room next Mrs. Kirke 's private parlor , and the two little girl be pretty child , rather spoil , I fancy , but they take to me after tell them The Seven Bad Pigs , and I 've no doubt I shall make a model governess .
I be to have my meal with the child , if I prefer it to the great table , and for the present I do , for I be bashful , though no one will believe it .
`` Now , my dear , make yourself at home , '' say Mrs. K. in her motherly way , `` I 'm on the drive from morning to night , a you may suppose with such a family , but a great anxiety will be off my mind if I know the child be safe with you .
My room be always open to you , and your own shall be as comfortable a I can make it .
There be some pleasant people in the house if you feel sociable , and your evening be always free .
Come to me if anything go wrong , and be as happy a you can .
There 's the tea bell , I must run and change my cap . ''
And off she bustle , leave me to settle myself in my new nest .
As I go downstairs soon after , I saw something I like .
The flight be very long in this tall house , and a I stand wait at the head of the third one for a little servant girl to lumber up , I saw a gentleman come along behind her , take the heavy hod of coal out of her hand , carry it all the way up , put it down at a door near by , and walk away , say , with a kind nod and a foreign accent , `` It go well so .
The little back be too young to haf such heaviness . ''
Was n't it good of him ?
I like such thing , for a Father say , trifle show character .
When I mention it to Mrs. K. , that evening , she laugh , and say , `` That must have be Professor Bhaer , he 's always do thing of that sort . ''
Mrs. K. tell me he be from Berlin , very learned and good , but poor a a church mouse , and give lesson to support himself and two little orphan nephew whom he be educate here , accord to the wish of his sister , who marry an American .
Not a very romantic story , but it interest me , and I be glad to hear that Mrs. K. lend him her parlor for some of his scholar .
There be a glass door between it and the nursery , and I mean to peep at him , and then I 'll tell you how he look .
He 's almost forty , so it 's no harm , Marmee .
After tea and a go-to-bed romp with the little girl , I attack the big workbasket , and have a quiet evening chat with my new friend .
I shall keep a journal-letter , and send it once a week , so goodnight , and more tomorrow .
Tuesday Eve Had a lively time in my seminary this morning , for the child act like Sancho , and at one time I really think I should shake them all round .
Some good angel inspire me to try gymnastics , and I keep it up till they be glad to sit down and keep still .
After luncheon , the girl take them out for a walk , and I go to my needlework like little Mabel ` with a willing mind ' .
I be thank my star that I 'd learn to make nice buttonhole , when the parlor door open and shut , and someone begin to hum , Kennst Du Das Land , like a big bumblebee .
It be dreadfully improper , I know , but I could n't resist the temptation , and lift one end of the curtain before the glass door , I peep in .
Professor Bhaer be there , and while he arrange his book , I take a good look at him .
A regular German -- rather stout , with brown hair tumble all over his head , a bushy beard , good nose , the kind eye I ever saw , and a splendid big voice that do one 's ear good , after our sharp or slipshod American gabble .
His clothes be rusty , his hand be large , and he have n't a really handsome feature in his face , except his beautiful teeth , yet I like him , for he have a fine head , his linen be very nice , and he look like a gentleman , though two button be off his coat and there be a patch on one shoe .
He look sober in spite of his humming , till he go to the window to turn the hyacinth bulbs toward the sun , and stroke the cat , who receive him like an old friend .
Then he smile , and when a tap come at the door , call out in a loud , brisk tone , `` Herein ! ''
I be just go to run , when I catch sight of a morsel of a child carry a big book , and stop , to see what be go on .
`` Me want me Bhaer , '' say the mite , slam down her book and run to meet him .
`` Thou shalt haf thy Bhaer .
Come , then , and take a goot hug from him , my Tina , '' say the Professor , catch her up with a laugh , and hold her so high over his head that she have to stoop her little face to kiss him .
`` Now me mus tuddy my lessin , '' go on the funny little thing .
So he put her up at the table , open the great dictionary she have bring , and give her a paper and pencil , and she scribble away , turn a leaf now and then , and pass her little fat finger down the page , a if find a word , so soberly that I nearly betray myself by a laugh , while Mr. Bhaer stand stroke her pretty hair with a fatherly look that make me think she must be his own , though she look more French than German .
Another knock and the appearance of two young lady send me back to my work , and there I virtuously remain through all the noise and gabbling that go on next door .
One of the girl keep laugh affectedly , and say , `` Now Professor , '' in a coquettish tone , and the other pronounce her German with an accent that must have make it hard for him to keep sober .
Both seem to try his patience sorely , for more than once I hear him say emphatically , `` No , no , it be not so , you haf not attend to what I say , '' and once there be a loud rap , a if he strike the table with his book , follow by the despairing exclamation , `` Prut !
It all go bad this day . ''
Poor man , I pity him , and when the girl be go , take just one more peep to see if he survive it .
He seem to have throw himself back in his chair , tire out , and sit there with his eye shut till the clock strike two , when he jump up , put his book in his pocket , a if ready for another lesson , and take little Tina who have fall asleep on the sofa in his arm , he carry her quietly away .
I fancy he have a hard life of it .
Mrs. Kirke ask me if I would n't go down to the five o'clock dinner , and feel a little bit homesick , I think I would , just to see what sort of people be under the same roof with me .
So I make myself respectable and try to slip in behind Mrs. Kirke , but a she be short and I 'm tall , my effort at concealment be rather a failure .
She give me a seat by her , and after my face cool off , I pluck up courage and look about me .
The long table be full , and every one intent on get their dinner , the gentleman especially , who seem to be eat on time , for they bolt in every sense of the word , vanish as soon a they be do .
There be the usual assortment of young men absorb in themselves , young couple absorb in each other , married lady in their baby , and old gentleman in politics .
I do n't think I shall care to have much to do with any of them , except one sweetfaced maiden lady , who look a if she have something in her .
Cast away at the very bottom of the table be the Professor , shout answer to the question of a very inquisitive , deaf old gentleman on one side , and talk philosophy with a Frenchman on the other .
If Amy have be here , she 'd have turn her back on him forever because , sad to relate , he have a great appetite , and shovel in his dinner in a manner which would have horrify ` her ladyship ' .
I do n't mind , for I like ` to see folk eat with a relish ' , a Hannah say , and the poor man must have need a deal of food after teach idiot all day .
As I go upstairs after dinner , two of the young men be settle their hat before the hall mirror , and I hear one say low to the other , `` Who 's the new party ? ''
`` Governess , or something of that sort . ''
`` What the deuce be she at our table for ? ''
`` Friend of the old lady 's . ''
`` Handsome head , but no style . ''
`` Not a bit of it .
Give u a light and come on . ''
I felt angry at first , and then I do n't care , for a governess be as good a a clerk , and I 've get sense , if I have n't style , which be more than some people have , judge from the remark of the elegant being who clatter away , smoke like bad chimney .
I hate ordinary people !
Thursday Yesterday be a quiet day spend in teaching , sewing , and write in my little room , which be very cozy , with a light and fire .
I pick up a few bit of news and be introduce to the Professor .
It seem that Tina be the child of the Frenchwoman who do the fine ironing in the laundry here .
The little thing have lose her heart to Mr. Bhaer , and follow him about the house like a dog whenever he be at home , which delight him , a he be very fond of child , though a ` bacheldore ' .
Kitty and Minnie Kirke likewise regard him with affection , and tell all sort of story about the play he invent , the present he bring , and the splendid tales he tell .
The young men quiz him , it seem , call him Old Fritz , Lager Beer , Ursa Major , and make all manner of joke on his name .
But he enjoy it like a boy , Mrs. Kirke say , and take it so good-naturedly that they all like him in spite of his foreign way .
The maiden lady be a Miss Norton , rich , cultivate , and kind .
She speak to me at dinner today -LRB- for I go to table again , it 's such fun to watch people -RRB- , and ask me to come and see her at her room .
She have fine book and picture , know interesting person , and seem friendly , so I shall make myself agreeable , for I do want to get into good society , only it be n't the same sort that Amy like .
I be in our parlor last evening when Mr. Bhaer come in with some newspaper for Mrs. Kirke .
She be n't there , but Minnie , who be a little old woman , introduce me very prettily .
`` This be Mamma 's friend , Miss March . ''
`` Yes , and she 's jolly and we like her lot , '' add Kitty , who be an ` enfant terrible ' .
We both bow , and then we laugh , for the prim introduction and the blunt addition be rather a comical contrast .
`` Ah , yes , I hear these naughty one go to vex you , Mees Marsch .
If so again , call at me and I come , '' he say , with a threaten frown that delight the little wretch .
I promise I would , and he depart , but it seem a if I be doom to see a good deal of him , for today a I pass his door on my way out , by accident I knock against it with my umbrella .
It fly open , and there he stand in his dress gown , with a big blue sock on one hand and a darn needle in the other .
He do n't seem at all ashamed of it , for when I explain and hurry on , he wave his hand , sock and all , say in his loud , cheerful way ... `` You haf a fine day to make your walk .
Bon voyage , Mademoiselle . ''
I laugh all the way downstairs , but it be a little pathetic , also to think of the poor man have to mend his own clothes .
The German gentleman embroider , I know , but darn hose be another thing and not so pretty .
Saturday Nothing have happen to write about , except a call on Miss Norton , who have a room full of pretty thing , and who be very charming , for she show me all her treasure , and ask me if I would sometimes go with her to lecture and concert , a her escort , if I enjoy them .
She put it a a favor , but I 'm sure Mrs. Kirke have tell her about u , and she do it out of kindness to me .
I 'm as proud a Lucifer , but such favor from such people do n't burden me , and I accept gratefully .
When I get back to the nursery there be such an uproar in the parlor that I look in , and there be Mr. Bhaer down on his hand and knee , with Tina on his back , Kitty lead him with a jump rope , and Minnie feed two small boy with seedcake , a they roar and ramp in cage build of chair .
`` We be play nargerie , '' explain Kitty .
`` Dis be mine effalunt ! ''
added Tina , hold on by the Professor 's hair .
`` Mamma always allow u to do what we like Saturday afternoon , when Franz and Emil come , do n't she , Mr. Bhaer ? ''
say Minnie .
The ` effalunt ' sit up , look as much in earnest a any of them , and say soberly to me , `` I gif you my wort it be so , if we make too large a noise you shall say Hush !
to u , and we go more softly . ''
I promise to do so , but leave the door open and enjoy the fun as much a they do , for a more glorious frolic I never witness .
They play tag and soldier , dance and sang , and when it begin to grow dark they all pile onto the sofa about the Professor , while he tell charm fairy story of the stork on the chimney top , and the little ` koblods ' , who ride the snowflake a they fall .
I wish Americans be as simple and natural a Germans , do n't you ?
I 'm so fond of writing , I should go spin on forever if motif of economy do n't stop me , for though I 've use thin paper and write fine , I tremble to think of the stamp this long letter will need .
Pray forward Amy 's as soon a you can spare them .
My small news will sound very flat after her splendor , but you will like them , I know .
Is Teddy study so hard that he ca n't find time to write to his friend ?
Take good care of him for me , Beth , and tell me all about the baby , and give heap of love to everyone .
From your faithful Jo .
P.S . On reading over my letter , it strike me a rather Bhaery , but I be always interested in odd people , and I really have nothing else to write about .
Bless you !
DECEMBER My Precious Betsey , As this be to be a scribble-scrabble letter , I direct it to you , for it may amuse you , and give you some idea of my going on , for though quiet , they be rather amusing , for which , oh , be joyful !
After what Amy would call Herculaneum effort , in the way of mental and moral agriculture , my young idea begin to shoot and my little twig to bend a I could wish .
They be not so interesting to me a Tina and the boy , but I do my duty by them , and they be fond of me .
Franz and Emil be jolly little lad , quite after my own heart , for the mixture of German and American spirit in them produce a constant state of effervescence .
Saturday afternoon be riotous time , whether spend in the house or out , for on pleasant day they all go to walk , like a seminary , with the Professor and myself to keep order , and then such fun !
We be very good friend now , and I 've begin to take lesson .
I really could n't help it , and it all come about in such a droll way that I must tell you .
To begin at the beginning , Mrs. Kirke call to me one day a I pass Mr. Bhaer 's room where she be rummage .
`` Did you ever see such a den , my dear ?
Just come and help me put these book to right , for I 've turn everything upside down , try to discover what he have do with the six new handkerchief I give him not long ago . ''
I go in , and while we work I look about me , for it be ' a den ' to be sure .
Books and paper everywhere , a broken meerschaum , and an old flute over the mantlepiece a if do with , a ragged bird without any tail chirp on one window seat , and a box of white mouse adorn the other .
Half-finished boat and bit of string lay among the manuscript .
Dirty little boot stand dry before the fire , and trace of the dearly beloved boy , for whom he make a slave of himself , be to be see all over the room .
After a grand rummage three of the miss article be find , one over the bird cage , one cover with ink , and a third burn brown , have be use a a holder .
`` Such a man ! ''
laugh good-natured Mrs. K. , a she put the relic in the rag bay .
`` I suppose the others be tear up to rig ship , bandage cut finger , or make kite tail .
It 's dreadful , but I ca n't scold him .
He 's so absent-minded and goodnatured , he let those boy ride over him roughshod .
I agree to do his washing and mending , but he forget to give out his thing and I forget to look them over , so he come to a sad pas sometimes . ''
`` Let me mend them , '' say I . `` I do n't mind it , and he need n't know .
I 'd like to , he 's so kind to me about bring my letter and lending book . ''
So I have get his thing in order , and knit heel into two pair of the sock , for they be boggle out of shape with his queer darn .
Nothing be say , and I hop he would n't find it out , but one day last week he catch me at it .
Hearing the lesson he give to others have interested and amuse me so much that I take a fancy to learn , for Tina run in and out , leave the door open , and I can hear .
I have be sit near this door , finish off the last sock , and try to understand what he say to a new scholar , who be as stupid a I be .
The girl have go , and I think he have also , it be so still , and I be busily gabble over a verb , and rock to and fro in a most absurd way , when a little crow make me look up , and there be Mr. Bhaer look and laugh quietly , while he make sign to Tina not to betray him .
`` So ! ''
he say , a I stop and star like a goose , `` you peep at me , I peep at you , and this be not bad , but see , I be not pleasanting when I say , haf you a wish for German ? ''
`` Yes , but you be too busy .
I be too stupid to learn , '' I blunder out , as red a a peony .
`` Prut !
We will make the time , and we fail not to find the sense .
At efening I shall gif a little lesson with much gladness , for look you , Mees Marsch , I haf this debt to pay . ''
And he point to my work ` Yes , ' they say to one another , these so kind lady , ` he be a stupid old fellow , he will see not what we do , he will never observe that his sock heel go not in hole any more , he will think his button grow out new when they fall , and believe that string make theirselves . '
`` Ah !
But I haf an eye , and I see much .
I haf a heart , and I feel thanks for this .
Come , a little lesson then and now , or -- no more good fairy work for me and mine . ''
Of course I could n't say anything after that , and a it really be a splendid opportunity , I make the bargain , and we begin .
I take four lesson , and then I stick fast in a grammatical bog .
The Professor be very patient with me , but it must have be torment to him , and now and then he 'd look at me with such an expression of mild despair that it be a toss-up with me whether to laugh or cry .
I try both way , and when it come to a sniff or utter mortification and woe , he just throw the grammar on to the floor and march out of the room .
I felt myself disgrace and desert forever , but do n't blame him a particle , and be scramble my paper together , mean to rush upstairs and shake myself hard , when in he come , a brisk and beaming a if I 'd cover myself in glory .
`` Now we shall try a new way .
You and I will read these pleasant little marchen together , and dig no more in that dry book , that go in the corner for make u trouble . ''
He speak so kindly , and open Hans Anderson 's fairy tale so invitingly before me , that I be more ashamed than ever , and go at my lesson in a neck-or-nothing style that seem to amuse him immensely .
I forget my bashfulness , and peg away -LRB- no other word will express it -RRB- with all my might , tumble over long word , pronounce accord to inspiration of the minute , and do my very best .
When I finish read my first page , and stop for breath , he clap his hand and cry out in his hearty way , `` Das ist gut !
Now we go well !
My turn .
I do him in German , gif me your ear . ''
And away he go , rumble out the word with his strong voice and a relish which be good to see as well a hear .
Fortunately the story be The Constant Tin Soldier , which be droll , you know , so I could laugh , and I do , though I do n't understand half he read , for I could n't help it , he be so earnest , I so excite , and the whole thing so comical .
After that we get on good , and now I read my lesson pretty well , for this way of study suit me , and I can see that the grammar get tuck into the tale and poetry a one give pill in jelly .
I like it very much , and he do n't seem tire of it yet , which be very good of him , be n't it ?
I mean to give him something on Christmas , for I dare not offer money .
Tell me something nice , Marmee .
I 'm glad Laurie seem so happy and busy , that he have give up smoking and let his hair grow .
You see Beth manages him good than I do .
I 'm not jealous , dear , do your best , only do n't make a saint of him .
I 'm afraid I could n't like him without a spice of human naughtiness .
Read him bit of my letter .
I have n't time to write much , and that will do just as well .
Thank Heaven Beth continue so comfortable .
JANUARY A Happy New Year to you all , my dear family , which of course include Mr. L. and a young man by the name of Teddy .
I ca n't tell you how much I enjoy your Christmas bundle , for I do n't get it till night and have give up hop .
Your letter come in the morning , but you say nothing about a parcel , mean it for a surprise , so I be disappoint , for I 'd have a ` kind of feel ' that you would n't forget me .
I felt a little low in my mind a I sit up in my room after tea , and when the big , muddy , battered-looking bundle be bring to me , I just hug it and prance .
It be so homey and refresh that I sit down on the floor and read and look and ate and laugh and cry , in my usual absurd way .
The thing be just what I want , and all the good for be make instead of bought .
Beth 's new ` ink bib ' be capital , and Hannah 's box of hard gingerbread will be a treasure .
I 'll be sure and wear the nice flannel you send , Marmee , and read carefully the book Father have mark .
Thank you all , heap and heap !
Speaking of book reminds me that I 'm get rich in that line , for on New Year 's Day Mr. Bhaer give me a fine Shakespeare .
It be one he value much , and I 've often admire it , set up in the place of honor with his German Bible , Plato , Homer , and Milton , so you may imagine how I felt when he bring it down , without it cover , and show me my own name in it , `` from my friend Friedrich Bhaer '' .
`` You say often you wish a library .
Here I gif you one , for between these lid -LRB- he mean cover -RRB- be many book in one .
Read him well , and he will help you much , for the study of character in this book will help you to read it in the world and paint it with your pen . ''
I thank him as well a I could , and talk now about ` my library ' , a if I have a hundred book .
I never know how much there be in Shakespeare before , but then I never have a Bhaer to explain it to me .
Now do n't laugh at his horrid name .
It be n't pronounce either Bear or Beer , a people will say it , but something between the two , a only Germans can give it .
I 'm glad you both like what I tell you about him , and hope you will know him some day .
Mother would admire his warm heart , Father his wise head .
I admire both , and feel rich in my new ` friend Friedrich Bhaer ' .
Not have much money , or know what he 'd like , I get several little thing , and put them about the room , where he would find them unexpectedly .
They be useful , pretty , or funny , a new standish on his table , a little vase for his flower , he always have one , or a bit of green in a glass , to keep him fresh , he say , and a holder for his blower , so that he need n't burn up what Amy call ` mouchoirs ' .
I make it like those Beth invent , a big butterfly with a fat body , and black and yellow wing , worst feeler , and bead eye .
It take his fancy immensely , and he put it on his mantlepiece a an article of virtue , so it be rather a failure after all .
Poor a he be , he do n't forget a servant or a child in the house , and not a soul here , from the French laundrywoman to Miss Norton forget him .
I be so glad of that .
They get up a masquerade , and have a gay time New Year 's Eve .
I do n't mean to go down , have no dress .
But at the last minute , Mrs. Kirke remember some old brocade , and Miss Norton lend me lace and feather .
So I dress up a Mrs. Malaprop , and sail in with a mask on .
No one know me , for I disguise my voice , and no one dreamed of the silent , haughty Miss March -LRB- for they think I be very stiff and cool , most of them , and so I be to whippersnapper -RRB- could dance and dress , and burst out into a ` nice derangement of epitaph , like an allegory on the bank of the Nile ' .
I enjoy it very much , and when we unmask it be fun to see them stare at me .
I hear one of the young men tell another that he know I 'd be an actress , in fact , he think he remember see me at one of the minor theater .
Meg will relish that joke .
Mr. Bhaer be Nick Bottom , and Tina be Titania , a perfect little fairy in his arm .
To see them dance be ` quite a landscape ' , to use a Teddyism .
I have a very happy New Year , after all , and when I think it over in my room , I felt a if I be get on a little in spite of my many failure , for I 'm cheerful all the time now , work with a will , and take more interest in other people than I use to , which be satisfactory .
Bless you all !
Ever your loving ... Jo CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR FRIEND Though very happy in the social atmosphere about her , and very busy with the daily work that earn her bread and make it sweeter for the effort , Jo still find time for literary labor .
The purpose which now take possession of her be a natural one to a poor and ambitious girl , but the mean she take to gain her end be not the best .
She saw that money confer power , money and power , therefore , she resolve to have , not to be use for herself alone , but for those whom she love more than life .
The dream of fill home with comfort , give Beth everything she want , from strawberry in winter to an organ in her bedroom , go abroad herself , and always have more than enough , so that she might indulge in the luxury of charity , have be for year Jo 's most cherished castle in the air .
The prize-story experience have seem to open a way which might , after long traveling and much uphill work , lead to this delightful chateau en Espagne .
But the novel disaster quench her courage for a time , for public opinion be a giant which have frighten stouter-hearted Jacks on big beanstalk than hers .
Like that immortal hero , she repose awhile after the first attempt , which result in a tumble and the least lovely of the giant 's treasure , if I remember rightly .
But the ` up again and take another ' spirit be a strong in Jo a in Jack , so she scramble up on the shady side this time and get more booty , but nearly leave behind her what be far more precious than the moneybag .
She take to write sensation story , for in those dark age , even all-perfect America read rubbish .
She tell no one , but concoct a ` thrilling tale ' , and boldly carry it herself to Mr. Dashwood , editor of the Weekly Volcano .
She have never read Sartor Resartus , but she have a womanly instinct that clothe possess an influence more powerful over many than the worth of character or the magic of manner .
So she dress herself in her best , and try to persuade herself that she be neither excited nor nervous , bravely climb two pair of dark and dirty stair to find herself in a disorderly room , a cloud of cigar smoke , and the presence of three gentleman , sit with their heel rather high than their hat , which article of dress none of them take the trouble to remove on her appearance .
Somewhat daunt by this reception , Jo hesitate on the threshold , murmur in much embarrassment ... `` Excuse me , I be look for the Weekly Volcano office .
I wish to see Mr. Dashwood . ''
Down go the high pair of heel , up rise the smoky gentleman , and carefully cherish his cigar between his finger , he advance with a nod and a countenance expressive of nothing but sleep .
Feeling that she must get through the matter somehow , Jo produce her manuscript and , blush redder and redder with each sentence , blunder out fragment of the little speech carefully prepare for the occasion .
`` A friend of mine desire me to offer -- a story -- just a an experiment -- would like your opinion -- be glad to write more if this suit . ''
While she blush and blunder , Mr. Dashwood have take the manuscript , and be turn over the leaf with a pair of rather dirty finger , and cast critical glance up and down the neat page .
`` Not a first attempt , I take it ? ''
observe that the page be number , cover only on one side , and not tie up with a ribbon -- sure sign of a novice .
`` No , sir .
She have have some experience , and get a prize for a tale in the Blarneystone Banner . ''
`` Oh , do she ? ''
and Mr. Dashwood give Jo a quick look , which seem to take note of everything she have on , from the bow in her bonnet to the button on her boot .
`` Well , you can leave it , if you like .
We 've more of this sort of thing on hand than we know what to do with at present , but I 'll run my eye over it , and give you an answer next week . ''
Now , Jo do not like to leave it , for Mr. Dashwood do n't suit her at all , but , under the circumstance , there be nothing for her to do but bow and walk away , look particularly tall and dignified , a she be apt to do when nettle or abash .
Just then she be both , for it be perfectly evident from the knowing glance exchange among the gentleman that her little fiction of ` my friend ' be consider a good joke , and a laugh , produce by some inaudible remark of the editor , a he close the door , complete her discomfiture .
Half resolve never to return , she go home , and work off her irritation by stitch pinafore vigorously , and in an hour or two be cool enough to laugh over the scene and long for next week .
When she go again , Mr. Dashwood be alone , whereat she rejoice .
Mr. Dashwood be much wide awake than before , which be agreeable , and Mr. Dashwood be not too deeply absorb in a cigar to remember his manner , so the second interview be much more comfortable than the first .
`` We 'll take this -LRB- editors never say I -RRB- , if you do n't object to a few alteration .
It 's too long , but omit the passage I 've mark will make it just the right length , '' he say , in a businesslike tone .
Jo hardly know her own MS. again , so crumpled and underscored be it page and paragraph , but feel a a tender parent might on be ask to cut off her baby 's leg in order that it might fit into a new cradle , she look at the marked passage and be surprise to find that all the moral reflection -- which she have carefully put in a ballast for much romance -- have be stricken out .
`` But , Sir , I think every story should have some sort of a moral , so I take care to have a few of my sinner repent . ''
Mr. Dashwoods 's editorial gravity relax into a smile , for Jo have forget her ` friend ' , and speak a only an author could .
`` People want to be amuse , not preach at , you know .
Morals do n't sell nowadays . ''
Which be not quite a correct statement , by the way .
`` You think it would do with these alteration , then ? ''
`` Yes , it 's a new plot , and pretty well work up -- language good , and so on , '' be Mr. Dashwood 's affable reply .
`` What do you -- that be , what compensation -- '' begin Jo , not exactly know how to express herself .
`` Oh , yes , well , we give from twenty-five to thirty for thing of this sort .
Pay when it come out , '' return Mr. Dashwood , a if that point have escape him .
Such trifle do escape the editorial mind , it be say .
`` Very well , you can have it , '' say Jo , hand back the story with a satisfied air , for after the dollar-a-column work , even twenty-five seem good pay .
`` Shall I tell my friend you will take another if she have one good than this ? ''
ask Jo , unconscious of her little slip of the tongue , and embolden by her success .
`` Well , we 'll look at it .
Ca n't promise to take it .
Tell her to make it short and spicy , and never mind the moral .
What name would your friend like to put on it ? ''
in a careless tone .
`` None at all , if you please , she do n't wish her name to appear and have no nom de plume , '' say Jo , blush in spite of herself .
`` Just a she like , of course .
The tale will be out next week .
Will you call for the money , or shall I send it ? ''
ask Mr. Dashwood , who felt a natural desire to know who his new contributor might be .
`` I 'll call .
Good morning , Sir . ''
As she depart , Mr. Dashwood put up his foot , with the graceful remark , `` Poor and proud , a usual , but she 'll do . ''
Following Mr. Dashwood 's direction , and make Mrs. Northbury her model , Jo rashly take a plunge into the frothy sea of sensational literature , but thanks to the life preserver thrown her by a friend , she come up again not much the worse for her ducking .
Like most young scribbler , she go abroad for her character and scenery , and bandit , count , gypsy , nun , and duchess appear upon her stage , and play their part with as much accuracy and spirit a could be expect .
Her reader be not particular about such trifle a grammar , punctuation , and probability , and Mr. Dashwood graciously permit her to fill his column at the low price , not think it necessary to tell her that the real cause of his hospitality be the fact that one of his hack , on be offer high wage , have basely leave him in the lurch .
She soon become interested in her work , for her emaciated purse grow stout , and the little hoard she be make to take Beth to the mountain next summer grow slowly but surely a the week pass .
One thing disturb her satisfaction , and that be that she do not tell them at home .
She have a feeling that Father and Mother would not approve , and prefer to have her own way first , and beg pardon afterward .
It be easy to keep her secret , for no name appear with her story .
Mr. Dashwood have of course find it out very soon , but promise to be dumb , and for a wonder keep his word .
She think it would do her no harm , for she sincerely mean to write nothing of which she would be ashamed , and quiet all prick of conscience by anticipation of the happy minute when she should show her earnings and laugh over her well-kept secret .
But Mr. Dashwood reject any but thrilling tale , and a thrill could not be produce except by harrow up the soul of the reader , history and romance , land and sea , science and art , police record and lunatic asylum , have to be ransack for the purpose .
Jo soon find that her innocent experience have give her but few glimpse of the tragic world which underlie society , so regard it in a business light , she set about supply her deficiency with characteristic energy .
Eager to find material for story , and bent on make them original in plot , if not masterly in execution , she search newspaper for accident , incident , and crime .
She excite the suspicion of public librarian by ask for work on poison .
She study face in the street , and character , good , bad , and indifferent , all about her .
She delve in the dust of ancient time for fact or fiction so old that they be as good a new , and introduce herself to folly , sin , and misery , as well a her limited opportunity allow .
She think she be prosper finely , but unconsciously she be begin to desecrate some of the womanliest attribute of a woman 's character .
She be live in bad society , and imaginary though it be , it influence affect her , for she be feed heart and fancy on dangerous and unsubstantial food , and be fast brush the innocent bloom from her nature by a premature acquaintance with the darker side of life , which come soon enough to all of u .
She be begin to feel rather than see this , for much describing of other people 's passion and feeling set her to study and speculate about her own , a morbid amusement in which healthy young mind do not voluntarily indulge .
Wrongdoing always bring it own punishment , and when Jo most needed hers , she get it .
I do n't know whether the study of Shakespeare help her to read character , or the natural instinct of a woman for what be honest , brave , and strong , but while endow her imaginary hero with every perfection under the sun , Jo be discover a live hero , who interest her in spite of many human imperfection .
Mr. Bhaer , in one of their conversation , have advise her to study simple , true , and lovely character , wherever she find them , a good training for a writer .
Jo take him at his word , for she coolly turn round and study him -- a proceeding which would have much surprise him , have he know it , for the worthy Professor be very humble in his own conceit .
Why everybody like him be what puzzle Jo , at first .
He be neither rich nor great , young nor handsome , in no respect what be call fascinating , impose , or brilliant , and yet he be as attractive a a genial fire , and people seem to gather about him as naturally a about a warm hearth .
He be poor , yet always appear to be give something away ; a stranger , yet everyone be his friend ; no longer young , but as happy-hearted a a boy ; plain and peculiar , yet his face look beautiful to many , and his oddity be freely forgive for his sake .
Jo often watch him , try to discover the charm , and at last decide that it be benevolence which work the miracle .
If he have any sorrow , ` it sit with it head under it wing ' , and he turn only his sunny side to the world .
There be line upon his forehead , but Time seem to have touch him gently , remember how kind he be to others .
The pleasant curve about his mouth be the memorial of many friendly word and cheery laugh , his eye be never cold or hard , and his big hand have a warm , strong grasp that be more expressive than word .
His very clothes seem to partake of the hospitable nature of the wearer .
They look a if they be at ease , and like to make him comfortable .
His capacious waistcoat be suggestive of a large heart underneath .
His rusty coat have a social air , and the baggy pocket plainly prove that little hand often go in empty and come out full .
His very boot be benevolent , and his collar never stiff and raspy like other people 's .
`` That 's it ! ''
say Jo to herself , when she at length discover that genuine good will toward one 's fellow men could beautify and dignify even a stout German teacher , who shovel in his dinner , darn his own sock , and be burden with the name of Bhaer .
Jo value goodness highly , but she also possess a most feminine respect for intellect , and a little discovery which she make about the Professor add much to her regard for him .
He never speak of himself , and no one ever know that in his native city he have be a man much honor and esteem for learn and integrity , till a countryman come to see him .
He never speak of himself , and in a conversation with Miss Norton divulge the pleasing fact .
From her Jo learn it , and like it all the good because Mr. Bhaer have never tell it .
She felt proud to know that he be an honored Professor in Berlin , though only a poor language-master in America , and his homely , hard-working life be much beautify by the spice of romance which this discovery give it .
Another and a good gift than intellect be show her in a most unexpected manner .
Miss Norton have the entree into most society , which Jo would have have no chance of see but for her .
The solitary woman felt an interest in the ambitious girl , and kindly confer many favor of this sort both on Jo and the Professor .
She take them with her one night to a select symposium , hold in honor of several celebrity .
Jo go prepared to bow down and adore the mighty one whom she have worship with youthful enthusiasm afar off .
But her reverence for genius receive a severe shock that night , and it take her some time to recover from the discovery that the great creature be only men and woman after all .
Imagine her dismay , on steal a glance of timid admiration at the poet whose line suggest an ethereal be feed on ` spirit , fire , and dew ' , to behold him devour his supper with an ardor which flush his intellectual countenance .
Turning a from a fall idol , she make other discovery which rapidly dispel her romantic illusion .
The great novelist vibrate between two decanter with the regularity of a pendulum ; the famous divine flirt openly with one of the Madame de Staels of the age , who look dagger at another Corinne , who be amiably satirize her , after outmaneuver her in effort to absorb the profound philosopher , who imbibe tea Johnsonianly and appear to slumber , the loquacity of the lady render speech impossible .
The scientific celebrity , forget their mollusk and glacial period , gossip about art , while devote themselves to oyster and ice with characteristic energy ; the young musician , who be charm the city like a second Orpheus , talk horse ; and the specimen of the British nobility present happen to be the most ordinary man of the party .
Before the evening be half over , Jo felt so completely disillusion , that she sit down in a corner to recover herself .
Mr. Bhaer soon join her , look rather out of his element , and presently several of the philosopher , each mount on his hobby , come amble up to hold an intellectual tournament in the recess .
The conversation be mile beyond Jo 's comprehension , but she enjoy it , though Kant and Hegel be unknown god , the Subjective and Objective unintelligible term , and the only thing ` evolve from her inner consciousness ' be a bad headache after it be all over .
It dawn upon her gradually that the world be be pick to piece , and put together on new and , accord to the talker , on infinitely well principle than before , that religion be in a fair way to be reason into nothingness , and intellect be to be the only God .
Jo know nothing about philosophy or metaphysics of any sort , but a curious excitement , half pleasurable , half painful , come over her a she listen with a sense of be turn adrift into time and space , like a young balloon out on a holiday .
She look round to see how the Professor like it , and find him look at her with the grim expression she have ever see him wear .
He shake his head and beckon her to come away , but she be fascinate just then by the freedom of Speculative Philosophy , and keep her seat , try to find out what the wise gentleman intend to rely upon after they have annihilate all the old belief .
Now , Mr. Bhaer be a diffident man and slow to offer his own opinion , not because they be unsettled , but too sincere and earnest to be lightly speak .
As he glance from Jo to several other young people , attract by the brilliancy of the philosophic pyrotechnic , he knit his brow and long to speak , fear that some inflammable young soul would be lead astray by the rocket , to find when the display be over that they have only an empty stick or a scorched hand .
He bore it as long a he could , but when he be appeal to for an opinion , he blaze up with honest indignation and defend religion with all the eloquence of truth -- an eloquence which make his broken English musical and his plain face beautiful .
He have a hard fight , for the wise men argue well , but he do n't know when he be beat and stand to his color like a man .
Somehow , a he talk , the world get right again to Jo .
The old belief , that have last so long , seem good than the new .
God be not a blind force , and immortality be not a pretty fable , but a blessed fact .
She felt a if she have solid ground under her foot again , and when Mr. Bhaer pause , outtalked but not one whit convince , Jo want to clap her hand and thank him .
She do neither , but she remember the scene , and give the Professor her heartiest respect , for she know it cost him an effort to speak out then and there , because his conscience would not let him be silent .
She begin to see that character be a good possession than money , rank , intellect , or beauty , and to feel that if greatness be what a wise man have define it to be , ` truth , reverence , and good will ' , then her friend Friedrich Bhaer be not only good , but great .
This belief strengthen daily .
She value his esteem , she covet his respect , she want to be worthy of his friendship , and just when the wish be sincere , she come near to lose everything .
It all grow out of a cocked hat , for one even the Professor come in to give Jo her lesson with a paper soldier cap on his head , which Tina have put there and he have forget to take off .
`` It 's evident he do n't look in his glass before come down , '' think Jo , with a smile , a he say `` Goot efening , '' and sit soberly down , quite unconscious of the ludicrous contrast between his subject and his headgear , for he be go to read her the Death of Wallenstein .
She say nothing at first , for she like to hear him laugh out his big , hearty laugh when anything funny happen , so she leave him to discover it for himself , and presently forget all about it , for to hear a German read Schiller be rather an absorb occupation .
After the reading come the lesson , which be a lively one , for Jo be in a gay mood that night , and the cocked hat keep her eye dance with merriment .
The Professor do n't know what to make of her , and stop at last to ask with an air of mild surprise that be irresistible ... `` Mees Marsch , for what do you laugh in your master 's face ?
Haf you no respect for me , that you go on so bad ? ''
`` How can I be respectful , Sir , when you forget to take your hat off ? ''
say Jo .
Lifting his hand to his head , the absent-minded Professor gravely felt and remove the little cocked hat , look at it a minute , and then throw back his head and laugh like a merry bass viol .
`` Ah !
I see him now , it be that imp Tina who make me a fool with my cap .
Well , it be nothing , but see you , if this lesson go not well , you too shall wear him . ''
But the lesson do not go at all for a few minute because Mr. Bhaer catch sight of a picture on the hat , and unfold it , say with great disgust , `` I wish these paper do not come in the house .
They be not for child to see , nor young people to read .
It be not well , and I haf no patience with those who make this harm . ''
Jo glance at the sheet and saw a please illustration compose of a lunatic , a corpse , a villain , and a viper .
She do not like it , but the impulse that make her turn it over be not one of displeasure but fear , because for a minute she fancy the paper be the Volcano .
It be not , however , and her panic subside a she remember that even if it have be and one of her own tale in it , there would have be no name to betray her .
She have betray herself , however , by a look and a blush , for though an absent man , the Professor saw a good deal more than people fancy .
He know that Jo write , and have meet her down among the newspaper office more than once , but a she never speak of it , he ask no question in spite of a strong desire to see her work .
Now it occur to him that she be do what she be ashamed to own , and it trouble him .
He do not say to himself , `` It be none of my business .
I 've no right to say anything , '' a many people would have do .
He only remember that she be young and poor , a girl far away from mother 's love and father 's care , and he be move to help her with an impulse a quick and natural a that which would prompt him to put out his hand to save a baby from a puddle .
All this flash through his mind in a minute , but not a trace of it appear in his face , and by the time the paper be turn , and Jo 's needle thread , he be ready to say quite naturally , but very gravely ... `` Yes , you be right to put it from you .
I do not think that good young girl should see such thing .
They be make pleasant to some , but I would more rather give my boy gunpowder to play with than this bad trash . ''
`` All may not be bad , only silly , you know , and if there be a demand for it , I do n't see any harm in supply it .
Many very respectable people make an honest live out of what be call sensation story , '' say Jo , scratch gather so energetically that a row of little slit follow her pin .
`` There be a demand for whisky , but I think you and I do not care to sell it .
If the respectable people know what harm they do , they would not feel that the living be honest .
They haf no right to put poison in the sugarplum , and let the small one eat it .
No , they should think a little , and sweep mud in the street before they do this thing . ''
Mr. Bhaer speak warmly , and walk to the fire , crumple the paper in his hand .
Jo sit still , look a if the fire have come to her , for her cheek burn long after the cocked hat have turn to smoke and go harmlessly up the chimney .
`` I should like much to send all the rest after him , '' mutter the Professor , come back with a relieved air .
Jo think what a blaze her pile of paper upstairs would make , and her hard-earned money lay rather heavily on her conscience at that minute .
Then she think consolingly to herself , `` Mine be not like that , they be only silly , never bad , so I wo n't be worry , '' and take up her book , she say , with a studious face , `` Shall we go on , Sir ?
I 'll be very good and proper now . ''
`` I shall hope so , '' be all he say , but he mean more than she imagine , and the grave , kind look he give her make her feel a if the word Weekly Volcano be print in large type on her forehead .
As soon a she go to her room , she get out her paper , and carefully reread every one of her story .
Being a little shortsighted , Mr. Bhaer sometimes use eye glass , and Jo have try them once , smile to see how they magnify the fine print of her book .
Now she seem to have on the Professor 's mental or moral spectacle also , for the fault of these poor story glare at her dreadfully and fill her with dismay .
`` They be trash , and will soon be bad trash if I go on , for each be more sensational than the last .
I 've go blindly on , hurt myself and other people , for the sake of money .
I know it 's so , for I ca n't read this stuff in sober earnest without be horribly ashamed of it , and what should I do if they be see at home or Mr. Bhaer get hold of them ? ''
Jo turn hot at the bare idea , and stuff the whole bundle into her stove , nearly set the chimney afire with the blaze .
`` Yes , that 's the best place for such inflammable nonsense .
I 'd better burn the house down , I suppose , than let other people blow themselves up with my gunpowder , '' she think a she watch the Demon of the Jura whisk away , a little black cinder with fiery eye .
But when nothing remain of all her three month 's work except a heap of ash and the money in her lap , Jo look sober , a she sit on the floor , wonder what she ought to do about her wage .
`` I think I have n't do much harm yet , and may keep this to pay for my time , '' she say , after a long meditation , add impatiently , `` I almost wish I have n't any conscience , it 's so inconvenient .
If I do n't care about do right , and do n't feel uncomfortable when do wrong , I should get on capitally .
I ca n't help wish sometimes , that Mother and Father have n't be so particular about such thing . ''
Ah , Jo , instead of wish that , thank God that ` Father and Mother be particular ' , and pity from your heart those who have no such guardian to hedge them round with principle which may seem like prison wall to impatient youth , but which will prove sure foundation to build character upon in womanhood .
Jo write no more sensational story , decide that the money do not pay for her share of the sensation , but go to the other extreme , a be the way with people of her stamp , she take a course of Mrs. Sherwood , Miss Edgeworth , and Hannah More , and then produce a tale which might have be more properly call an essay or a sermon , so intensely moral be it .
She have her doubt about it from the beginning , for her lively fancy and girlish romance felt a ill at ease in the new style a she would have do masquerade in the stiff and cumbrous costume of the last century .
She send this didactic gem to several market , but it find no purchaser , and she be incline to agree with Mr. Dashwood that moral do n't sell .
Then she try a child 's story , which she could easily have dispose of if she have not be mercenary enough to demand filthy lucre for it .
The only person who offer enough to make it worth her while to try juvenile literature be a worthy gentleman who felt it his mission to convert all the world to his particular belief .
But much a she like to write for child , Jo could not consent to depict all her naughty boy a be eat by bear or toss by mad bull because they do not go to a particular Sabbath school , nor all the good infant who do go a reward by every kind of bliss , from gild gingerbread to escort of angel when they depart this life with psalm or sermon on their lisping tongue .
So nothing come of these trial , and Jo cork up her inkstand , and say in a fit of very wholesome humility ... `` I do n't know anything .
I 'll wait until I do before I try again , and meantime , ` sweep mud in the street ' if I ca n't do good , that 's honest , at least . ''
Which decision prove that her second tumble down the beanstalk have do her some good .
While these internal revolution be go on , her external life have be a busy and uneventful a usual , and if she sometimes look serious or a little sad no one observe it but Professor Bhaer .
He do it so quietly that Jo never know he be watch to see if she would accept and profit by his reproof , but she stand the test , and he be satisfied , for though no word pass between them , he know that she have give up write .
Not only do he guess it by the fact that the second finger of her right hand be no long inky , but she spend her evening downstairs now , be meet no more among newspaper office , and study with a dogged patience , which assure him that she be bent on occupy her mind with something useful , if not pleasant .
He help her in many way , prove himself a true friend , and Jo be happy , for while her pen lay idle , she be learn other lesson besides German , and lay a foundation for the sensation story of her own life .
It be a pleasant winter and a long one , for she do not leave Mrs. Kirke till June .
Everyone seem sorry when the time come .
The child be inconsolable , and Mr. Bhaer 's hair stick straight up all over his head , for he always rumple it wildly when disturb in mind .
`` Going home ?
Ah , you be happy that you haf a home to go in , '' he say , when she tell him , and sit silently pull his beard in the corner , while she hold a little levee on that last evening .
She be go early , so she bid them all goodbye overnight , and when his turn come , she say warmly , `` Now , Sir , you wo n't forget to come and see u , if you ever travel our way , will you ?
I 'll never forgive you if you do , for I want them all to know my friend . ''
`` Do you ?
Shall I come ? ''
he ask , look down at her with an eager expression which she do not see .
`` Yes , come next month .
Laurie graduate then , and you 'd enjoy commencement a something new . ''
`` That be your best friend , of whom you speak ? ''
he say in an altered tone .
`` Yes , my boy Teddy .
I 'm very proud of him and should like you to see him . ''
Jo look up then , quite unconscious of anything but her own pleasure in the prospect of show them to one another .
Something in Mr. Bhaer 's face suddenly recall the fact that she might find Laurie more than a ` best friend ' , and simply because she particularly wish not to look a if anything be the matter , she involuntarily begin to blush , and the more she try not to , the redder she grow .
If it have not be for Tina on her knee .
She do n't know what would have become of her .
Fortunately the child be move to hug her , so she manage to hide her face an instant , hop the Professor do not see it .
But he do , and his own changed again from that momentary anxiety to it usual expression , a he say cordially ... `` I fear I shall not make the time for that , but I wish the friend much success , and you all happiness .
Gott bless you ! ''
And with that , he shake hand warmly , shoulder Tina , and go away .
But after the boy be abed , he sit long before his fire with the tired look on his face and the ` heimweh ' , or homesickness , lie heavy at his heart .
Once , when he remember Jo a she sit with the little child in her lap and that new softness in her face , he lean his head on his hand a minute , and then roam about the room , a if in search of something that he could not find .
`` It be not for me , I must not hope it now , '' he say to himself , with a sigh that be almost a groan .
Then , a if reproach himself for the longing that he could not repress , he go and kiss the two tousle head upon the pillow , take down his seldom-used meerschaum , and open his Plato .
He do his best and do it manfully , but I do n't think he find that a pair of rampant boy , a pipe , or even the divine Plato , be very satisfactory substitute for wife and child at home .
Early a it be , he be at the station next morning to see Jo off , and thanks to him , she begin her solitary journey with the pleasant memory of a familiar face smile it farewell , a bunch of violet to keep her company , and best of all , the happy thought , `` Well , the winter 's go , and I 've write no book , earn no fortune , but I 've make a friend worth have and I 'll try to keep him all my life . ''
CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE HEARTACHE Whatever his motive might have be , Laurie study to some purpose that year , for he graduate with honor , and give the Latin oration with the grace of a Phillips and the eloquence of a Demosthenes , so his friend say .
They be all there , his grandfather -- oh , so proud -- Mr. and Mrs. March , John and Meg , Jo and Beth , and all exult over him with the sincere admiration which boys make light of at the time , but fail to win from the world by any after-triumphs .
`` I 've get to stay for this confounded supper , but I shall be home early tomorrow .
You 'll come and meet me a usual , girl ? ''
Laurie say , a he put the sister into the carriage after the joy of the day be over .
He say ` girl ' , but he mean Jo , for she be the only one who keep up the old custom .
She have not the heart to refuse her splendid , successful boy anything , and answer warmly ... `` I 'll come , Teddy , rain or shine , and march before you , play ` Hail the conquering hero come ' on a jew 's - harp . ''
Laurie thank her with a look that make her think in a sudden panic , `` Oh , deary me !
I know he 'll say something , and then what shall I do ? ''
Evening meditation and morning work somewhat allay her fear , and have decide that she would n't be vain enough to think people be go to propose when she have give them every reason to know what her answer would be , she set forth at the appointed time , hop Teddy would n't do anything to make her hurt his poor feeling .
A call at Meg 's , and a refreshing sniff and sip at the Daisy and Demijohn , still far fortify her for the tete-a-tete , but when she saw a stalwart figure loom in the distance , she have a strong desire to turn about and run away .
`` Where 's the jew 's - harp , Jo ? ''
cry Laurie , as soon a he be within speak distance .
`` I forget it . ''
And Jo take heart again , for that salutation could not be call lover-like .
She always use to take his arm on these occasion , now she do not , and he make no complaint , which be a bad sign , but talk on rapidly about all sort of faraway subject , till they turn from the road into the little path that lead homeward through the grove .
Then he walk more slowly , suddenly lose his fine flow of language , and now and then a dreadful pause occur .
To rescue the conversation from one of the well of silence into which it keep fall , Jo say hastily , `` Now you must have a good long holiday ! ''
`` I intend to . ''
Something in his resolute tone make Jo look up quickly to find him look down at her with an expression that assure her the dreaded moment have come , and make her put out her hand with an imploring , `` No , Teddy .
Please do n't ! ''
`` I will , and you must hear me .
It 's no use , Jo , we 've get to have it out , and the sooner the good for both of u , '' he answer , get flush and excite all at once .
`` Say what you like then .
I 'll listen , '' say Jo , with a desperate sort of patience .
Laurie be a young lover , but he be in earnest , and meant to ` have it out ' , if he die in the attempt , so he plunge into the subject with characteristic impetuousity , say in a voice that would get choky now and then , in spite of manful effort to keep it steady ... `` I 've love you ever since I 've know you , Jo , could n't help it , you 've be so good to me .
I 've try to show it , but you would n't let me .
Now I 'm go to make you hear , and give me an answer , for I ca n't go on so any long . ''
`` I want to save you this .
I think you 'd understand ... '' begin Jo , find it a great deal harder than she expect .
`` I know you do , but the girl be so queer you never know what they mean .
They say no when they mean yes , and drive a man out of his wit just for the fun of it , '' return Laurie , entrench himself behind an undeniable fact .
`` I do n't .
I never want to make you care for me so , and I go away to keep you from it if I could . ''
`` I think so .
It be like you , but it be no use .
I only love you all the more , and I work hard to please you , and I give up billiards and everything you do n't like , and wait and never complain , for I hop you 'd love me , though I 'm not half good enough ... '' Here there be a choke that could n't be control , so he decapitate buttercup while he clear his ` confound throat ' .
`` You , you be , you 're a great deal too good for me , and I 'm so grateful to you , and so proud and fond of you , I do n't know why I ca n't love you a you want me to .
I 've try , but I ca n't change the feeling , and it would be a lie to say I do when I do n't . ''
`` Really , truly , Jo ? ''
He stop short , and catch both her hand a he put his question with a look that she do not soon forget .
`` Really , truly , dear . ''
They be in the grove now , close by the stile , and when the last word fell reluctantly from Jo 's lip , Laurie drop her hand and turn a if to go on , but for once in his life the fence be too much for him .
So he just lay his head down on the mossy post , and stand so still that Jo be frighten .
`` Oh , Teddy , I 'm sorry , so desperately sorry , I could kill myself if it would do any good !
I wish you would n't take it so hard , I ca n't help it .
You know it 's impossible for people to make themselves love other people if they do n't , '' cry Jo inelegantly but remorsefully , a she softly pat his shoulder , remember the time when he have comfort her so long ago .
`` They do sometimes , '' say a muffled voice from the post .
`` I do n't believe it 's the right sort of love , and I 'd rather not try it , '' be the decided answer .
There be a long pause , while a blackbird sung blithely on the willow by the river , and the tall grass rustle in the wind .
Presently Jo say very soberly , a she sit down on the step of the stile , `` Laurie , I want to tell you something . ''
He start a if he have be shoot , throw up his head , and cry out in a fierce tone , `` Do n't tell me that , Jo , I ca n't bear it now ! ''
`` Tell what ? ''
she ask , wonder at his violence .
`` That you love that old man . ''
`` What old man ? ''
demand Jo , think he must mean his grandfather .
`` That devilish Professor you be always write about .
If you say you love him , I know I shall do something desperate ; '' and he look a if he would keep his word , a he clench his hand with a wrathful spark in his eye .
Jo want to laugh , but restrain herself and say warmly , for she too , be get excite with all this , `` Do n't swear , Teddy !
He be n't old , nor anything bad , but good and kind , and the best friend I 've get , next to you .
Pray , do n't fly into a passion .
I want to be kind , but I know I shall get angry if you abuse my Professor .
I have n't the least idea of love him or anybody else . ''
`` But you will after a while , and then what will become of me ? ''
`` You 'll love someone else too , like a sensible boy , and forget all this trouble . ''
`` I ca n't love anyone else , and I 'll never forget you , Jo , Never !
Never ! ''
with a stamp to emphasize his passionate word .
`` What shall I do with him ? ''
sigh Jo , find that emotion be more unmanagable than she expect .
`` You have n't hear what I want to tell you .
Sit down and listen , for indeed I want to do right and make you happy , '' she say , hop to soothe him with a little reason , which prove that she know nothing about love .
Seeing a ray of hope in that last speech , Laurie throw himself down on the grass at her foot , lean his arm on the low step of the stile , and look up at her with an expectant face .
Now that arrangement be not conducive to calm speech or clear think on Jo 's part , for how could she say hard thing to her boy while he watch her with eye full of love and longing , and lash still wet with the bitter drop or two her hardness of heart have wring from him ?
She gently turn his head away , say , a she stroke the wavy hair which have be allow to grow for her sake -- how touching that be , to be sure !
`` I agree with Mother that you and I be not suit to each other , because our quick temper and strong will would probably make u very miserable , if we be so foolish a to ... '' Jo pause a little over the last word , but Laurie utter it with a rapturous expression .
`` Marry -- no we should n't !
If you love me , Jo , I should be a perfect saint , for you could make me anything you like . ''
`` No , I ca n't .
I 've try and fail , and I wo n't risk our happiness by such a serious experiment .
We do n't agree and we never shall , so we 'll be good friend all our life , but we wo n't go and do anything rash . ''
`` Yes , we will if we get the chance , '' mutter Laurie rebelliously .
`` Now do be reasonable , and take a sensible view of the case , '' implore Jo , almost at her wit 's end .
`` I wo n't be reasonable .
I do n't want to take what you call ' a sensible view ' .
It wo n't help me , and it only make it hard .
I do n't believe you 've get any heart . ''
`` I wish I have n't . ''
There be a little quiver in Jo 's voice , and think it a good omen , Laurie turn round , bring all his persuasive power to bear a he say , in the wheedlesome tone that have never be so dangerously wheedlesome before , `` Do n't disappoint u , dear !
Everyone expect it .
Grandpa have set his heart upon it , your people like it , and I ca n't get on without you .
Say you will , and let 's be happy .
Do , do ! ''
Not until month afterward do Jo understand how she have the strength of mind to hold fast to the resolution she have make when she decide that she do not love her boy , and never could .
It be very hard to do , but she do it , know that delay be both useless and cruel .
`` I ca n't say ` yes ' truly , so I wo n't say it at all .
You 'll see that I 'm right , by-and-by , and thank me for it ... '' she begin solemnly .
`` I 'll be hang if I do ! ''
and Laurie bounce up off the grass , burn with indignation at the very idea .
`` Yes , you will ! ''
persist Jo .
`` You 'll get over this after a while , and find some lovely accomplished girl , who will adore you , and make a fine mistress for your fine house .
I should n't .
I 'm homely and awkward and odd and old , and you 'd be ashamed of me , and we should quarrel -- we ca n't help it even now , you see -- and I should n't like elegant society and you would , and you 'd hate my scribbling , and I could n't get on without it , and we should be unhappy , and wish we have n't do it , and everything would be horrid ! ''
`` Anything more ? ''
ask Laurie , find it hard to listen patiently to this prophetic burst .
`` Nothing more , except that I do n't believe I shall ever marry .
I 'm happy a I be , and love my liberty too well to be in a hurry to give it up for any mortal man . ''
`` I know well ! ''
broke in Laurie .
`` You think so now , but there 'll come a time when you will care for somebody , and you 'll love him tremendously , and live and die for him .
I know you will , it 's your way , and I shall have to stand by and see it , '' and the despairing lover cast his hat upon the ground with a gesture that would have seem comical , if his face have not be so tragic .
`` Yes , I will live and die for him , if he ever come and make me love him in spite of myself , and you must do the best you can ! ''
cry Jo , lose patience with poor Teddy .
`` I 've do my best , but you wo n't be reasonable , and it 's selfish of you to keep teasing for what I ca n't give .
I shall always be fond of you , very fond indeed , a a friend , but I 'll never marry you , and the sooner you believe it the good for both of u -- so now ! ''
That speech be like gunpowder .
Laurie look at her a minute a if he do not quite know what to do with himself , then turn sharply away , say in a desperate sort of tone , `` You 'll be sorry some day , Jo . ''
`` Oh , where be you go ? ''
she cry , for his face frighten her .
`` To the devil ! ''
be the console answer .
For a minute Jo 's heart stand still , a he swing himself down the bank toward the river , but it take much folly , sin or misery to send a young man to a violent death , and Laurie be not one of the weak sort who be conquer by a single failure .
He have no thought of a melodramatic plunge , but some blind instinct lead him to fling hat and coat into his boat , and row away with all his might , make good time up the river than he have do in any race .
Jo draw a long breath and unclasp her hand a she watch the poor fellow try to outstrip the trouble which he carry in his heart .
`` That will do him good , and he 'll come home in such a tender , penitent state of mind , that I sha n't dare to see him , '' she say , add , a she go slowly home , feeling a if she have murder some innocent thing , and bury it under the leaf .
`` Now I must go and prepare Mr. Laurence to be very kind to my poor boy .
I wish he 'd love Beth , perhaps he may in time , but I begin to think I be mistake about her .
Oh dear !
How can girls like to have lover and refuse them ?
I think it 's dreadful . ''
Being sure that no one could do it so well a herself , she go straight to Mr. Laurence , tell the hard story bravely through , and then break down , cry so dismally over her own insensibility that the kind old gentleman , though sorely disappointed , do not utter a reproach .
He find it difficult to understand how any girl could help love Laurie , and hop she would change her mind , but he know even good than Jo that love can not be force , so he shake his head sadly and resolve to carry his boy out of harm 's way , for Young Impetuosity 's parting word to Jo disturb him more than he would confess .
When Laurie come home , dead tire but quite compose , his grandfather meet him a if he know nothing , and keep up the delusion very successfully for an hour or two .
But when they sit together in the twilight , the time they use to enjoy so much , it be hard work for the old man to ramble on a usual , and hard still for the young one to listen to praise of the last year 's success , which to him now seem like love 's labor lose .
He bore it as long a he could , then go to his piano and begin to play .
The window be open , and Jo , walk in the garden with Beth , for once understood music well than her sister , for he play the ' Sonata Pathetique ' , and play it a he never do before .
`` That 's very fine , I dare say , but it 's sad enough to make one cry .
Give u something gayer , lad , '' say Mr. Laurence , whose kind old heart be full of sympathy , which he long to show but know not how .
Laurie dash into a lively strain , play stormily for several minute , and would have get through bravely , if in a momentary lull Mrs. March 's voice have not be hear call , `` Jo , dear , come in .
I want you . ''
Just what Laurie long to say , with a different meaning !
As he listen , he lose his place , the music end with a broken chord , and the musician sat silent in the dark .
`` I ca n't stand this , '' mutter the old gentleman .
Up he get , grope his way to the piano , lay a kind hand on either of the broad shoulder , and say , as gently a a woman , `` I know , my boy , I know . ''
No answer for an instant , then Laurie ask sharply , `` Who tell you ? ''
`` Jo herself . ''
`` Then there 's an end of it ! ''
And he shake off his grandfather 's hand with an impatient motion , for though grateful for the sympathy , his man 's pride could not bear a man 's pity .
`` Not quite .
I want to say one thing , and then there shall be an end of it , '' return Mr. Laurence with unusual mildness .
`` You wo n't care to stay at home now , perhaps ? ''
`` I do n't intend to run away from a girl .
Jo ca n't prevent my see her , and I shall stay and do it as long a I like , '' interrupt Laurie in a defiant tone .
`` Not if you be the gentleman I think you .
I 'm disappointed , but the girl ca n't help it , and the only thing leave for you to do be to go away for a time .
Where will you go ? ''
`` Anywhere .
I do n't care what become of me , '' and Laurie get up with a reckless laugh that grate on his grandfather 's ear .
`` Take it like a man , and do n't do anything rash , for God 's sake .
Why not go abroad , a you plan , and forget it ? ''
`` I ca n't . ''
`` But you 've be wild to go , and I promise you should when you get through college . ''
`` Ah , but I do n't mean to go alone ! ''
and Laurie walk fast through the room with an expression which it be well his grandfather do not see .
`` I do n't ask you to go alone .
There 's someone ready and glad to go with you , anywhere in the world . ''
`` Who , Sir ? ''
stop to listen .
`` Myself . ''
Laurie come back as quickly a he go , and put out his hand , say huskily , `` I 'm a selfish brute , but -- you know -- Grandfather -- '' `` Lord help me , yes , I do know , for I 've be through it all before , once in my own young day , and then with your father .
Now , my dear boy , just sit quietly down and hear my plan .
It 's all settle , and can be carry out at once , '' say Mr. Laurence , keep hold of the young man , a if fearful that he would break away a his father have do before him .
`` Well , sir , what be it ? ''
and Laurie sit down , without a sign of interest in face or voice .
`` There be business in London that need look after .
I mean you should attend to it , but I can do it good myself , and thing here will get on very well with Brooke to manage them .
My partner do almost everything , I 'm merely hold on until you take my place , and can be off at any time . ''
`` But you hate travel , Sir .
I ca n't ask it of you at your age , '' begin Laurie , who be grateful for the sacrifice , but much prefer to go alone , if he go at all .
The old gentleman know that perfectly well , and particularly desire to prevent it , for the mood in which he find his grandson assure him that it would not be wise to leave him to his own device .
So , stifle a natural regret at the thought of the home comfort he would leave behind him , he say stoutly , `` Bless your soul , I 'm not superannuate yet .
I quite enjoy the idea .
It will do me good , and my old bone wo n't suffer , for travel nowadays be almost as easy a sit in a chair . ''
A restless movement from Laurie suggest that his chair be not easy , or that he do not like the plan , and make the old man add hastily , `` I do n't mean to be a marplot or a burden .
I go because I think you 'd feel happy than if I be leave behind .
I do n't intend to gad about with you , but leave you free to go where you like , while I amuse myself in my own way .
I 've friend in London and Paris , and should like to visit them .
Meantime you can go to Italy , Germany , Switzerland , where you will , and enjoy picture , music , scenery , and adventure to your heart 's content . ''
Now , Laurie felt just then that his heart be entirely break and the world a howling wilderness , but at the sound of certain word which the old gentleman artfully introduce into his closing sentence , the broken heart give an unexpected leap , and a green oasis or two suddenly appear in the howling wilderness .
He sigh , and then say , in a spiritless tone , `` Just a you like , Sir .
It do n't matter where I go or what I do . ''
`` It do to me , remember that , my lad .
I give you entire liberty , but I trust you to make an honest use of it .
Promise me that , Laurie . ''
`` Anything you like , Sir . ''
`` Good , '' think the old gentleman .
`` You do n't care now , but there 'll come a time when that promise will keep you out of mischief , or I 'm much mistaken . ''
Being an energetic individual , Mr. Laurence strike while the iron be hot , and before the blighted be recover spirit enough to rebel , they be off .
During the time necessary for preparation , Laurie bore himself a young gentleman usually do in such case .
He be moody , irritable , and pensive by turn , lose his appetite , neglect his dress and devote much time to play tempestuously on his piano , avoid Jo , but console himself by star at her from his window , with a tragic face that haunt her dream by night and oppress her with a heavy sense of guilt by day .
Unlike some sufferer , he never speak of his unrequited passion , and would allow no one , not even Mrs. March , to attempt consolation or offer sympathy .
On some account , this be a relief to his friend , but the week before his departure be very uncomfortable , and everyone rejoice that the ` poor , dear fellow be go away to forget his trouble , and come home happy ' .
Of course , he smile darkly at their delusion , but pass it by with the sad superiority of one who know that his fidelity like his love be unalterable .
When the parting come he affect high spirit , to conceal certain inconvenient emotion which seem inclined to assert themselves .
This gaiety do not impose upon anybody , but they try to look a if it do for his sake , and he get on very well till Mrs. March kiss him , with a whisper full of motherly solicitude .
Then feel that he be go very fast , he hastily embrace them all round , not forget the afflicted Hannah , and run downstairs a if for his life .
Jo follow a minute after to wave her hand to him if he look round .
He do look round , come back , put his arm about her a she stand on the step above him , and look up at her with a face that make his short appeal eloquent and pathetic .
`` Oh , Jo , ca n't you ? ''
`` Teddy , dear , I wish I could ! ''
That be all , except a little pause .
Then Laurie straighten himself up , say , `` It 's all right , never mind , '' and go away without another word .
Ah , but it be n't all right , and Jo do mind , for while the curly head lay on her arm a minute after her hard answer , she felt a if she have stab her dear friend , and when he leave her without a look behind him , she know that the boy Laurie never would come again .
CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX BETH 'S SECRET When Jo come home that spring , she have be strike with the change in Beth .
No one spoke of it or seem aware of it , for it have come too gradually to startle those who saw her daily , but to eye sharpen by absence , it be very plain and a heavy weight fell on Jo 's heart a she saw her sister 's face .
It be no paler and but little thinner than in the autumn , yet there be a strange , transparent look about it , a if the mortal be be slowly refine away , and the immortal shining through the frail flesh with an indescribably pathetic beauty .
Jo saw and felt it , but say nothing at the time , and soon the first impression lose much of it power , for Beth seem happy , no one appear to doubt that she be well , and presently in other care Jo for a time forget her fear .
But when Laurie be go , and peace prevail again , the vague anxiety return and haunt her .
She have confess her sin and be forgiven , but when she show her saving and propose a mountain trip , Beth have thank her heartily , but beg not to go so far away from home .
Another little visit to the seashore would suit her good , and a Grandma could not be prevail upon to leave the baby , Jo take Beth down to the quiet place , where she could live much in the open air , and let the fresh sea breeze blow a little color into her pale cheek .
It be not a fashionable place , but even among the pleasant people there , the girl make few friend , prefer to live for one another .
Beth be too shy to enjoy society , and Jo too wrap up in her to care for anyone else .
So they be all in all to each other , and come and go , quite unconscious of the interest they exit in those about them , who watch with sympathetic eye the strong sister and the feeble one , always together , a if they felt instinctively that a long separation be not far away .
They do feel it , yet neither spoke of it , for often between ourselves and those near and dear to u there exist a reserve which it be very hard to overcome .
Jo felt a if a veil have fall between her heart and Beth 's , but when she put out her hand to lift it up , there seem something sacred in the silence , and she wait for Beth to speak .
She wonder , and be thankful also , that her parent do not seem to see what she saw , and during the quiet week when the shadow grow so plain to her , she say nothing of it to those at home , believe that it would tell itself when Beth come back no good .
She wonder still more if her sister really guess the hard truth , and what thought be pass through her mind during the long hour when she lay on the warm rock with her head in Jo 's lap , while the wind blow healthfully over her and the sea make music at her foot .
One day Beth tell her .
Jo think she be asleep , she lay so still , and put down her book , sit look at her with wistful eye , try to see sign of hope in the faint color on Beth 's cheek .
But she could not find enough to satisfy her , for the cheek be very thin , and the hand seem too feeble to hold even the rosy little shell they have be collect .
It come to her then more bitterly than ever that Beth be slowly drift away from her , and her arm instinctively tighten their hold upon the dear treasure she possess .
For a minute her eye be too dim for see , and when they clear , Beth be look up at her so tenderly that there be hardly any need for her to say , `` Jo , dear , I 'm glad you know it .
I 've try to tell you , but I could n't . ''
There be no answer except her sister 's cheek against her own , not even tear , for when most deeply move , Jo do not cry .
She be the weak then , and Beth try to comfort and sustain her , with her arm about her and the soothing word she whisper in her ear .
`` I 've know it for a good while , dear , and now I 'm use to it , it be n't hard to think of or to bear .
Try to see it so and do n't be trouble about me , because it 's best , indeed it be . ''
`` Is this what make you so unhappy in the autumn , Beth ?
You do not feel it then , and keep it to yourself so long , do you ? ''
ask Jo , refuse to see or say that it be best , but glad to know that Laurie have no part in Beth 's trouble .
`` Yes , I give up hop then , but I do n't like to own it .
I try to think it be a sick fancy , and would not let it trouble anyone .
But when I saw you all so well and strong and full of happy plan , it be hard to feel that I could never be like you , and then I be miserable , Jo . ''
`` Oh , Beth , and you do n't tell me , do n't let me comfort and help you ?
How could you shut me out , bear it all alone ? ''
Jo 's voice be full of tender reproach , and her heart ache to think of the solitary struggle that must have go on while Beth learn to say goodbye to health , love , and life , and take up her cross so cheerfully .
`` Perhaps it be wrong , but I try to do right .
I be n't sure , no one say anything , and I hop I be mistake .
It would have be selfish to frighten you all when Marmee be so anxious about Meg , and Amy away , and you so happy with Laurie -- at least I think so then . ''
`` And I think you love him , Beth , and I go away because I could n't , '' cry Jo , glad to say all the truth .
Beth look so amaze at the idea that Jo smile in spite of her pain , and add softly , `` Then you do n't , dearie ?
I be afraid it be so , and imagine your poor little heart full of lovelornity all that while . ''
`` Why , Jo , how could I , when he be so fond of you ? ''
ask Beth , as innocently a a child .
`` I do love him dearly .
He be so good to me , how can I help It ?
But he could never be anything to me but my brother .
I hope he truly will be , sometime . ''
`` Not through me , '' say Jo decidedly .
`` Amy be leave for him , and they would suit excellently , but I have no heart for such thing , now .
I do n't care what become of anybody but you , Beth .
You must get well . ''
`` I want to , oh , so much !
I try , but every day I lose a little , and feel more sure that I shall never gain it back .
It 's like the tide , Jo , when it turn , it go slowly , but it ca n't be stop . ''
`` It shall be stop , your tide must not turn so soon , nineteen be too young , Beth .
I ca n't let you go .
I 'll work and pray and fight against it .
I 'll keep you in spite of everything .
There must be way , it ca n't be too late .
God wo n't be so cruel a to take you from me , '' cry poor Jo rebelliously , for her spirit be far less piously submissive than Beth 's .
Simple , sincere people seldom speak much of their piety .
It show itself in act rather than in word , and have more influence than homily or protestation .
Beth could not reason upon or explain the faith that give her courage and patience to give up life , and cheerfully wait for death .
Like a confiding child , she ask no question , but leave everything to God and nature , Father and Mother of u all , feel sure that they , and they only , could teach and strengthen heart and spirit for this life and the life to come .
She do not rebuke Jo with saintly speech , only love her good for her passionate affection , and clung more closely to the dear human love , from which our Father never mean u to be wean , but through which He draw u close to Himself .
She could not say , `` I 'm glad to go , '' for life be very sweet for her .
She could only sob out , `` I try to be willing , '' while she hold fast to Jo , a the first bitter wave of this great sorrow break over them together .
By and by Beth say , with recovered serenity , `` You 'll tell them this when we go home ? ''
`` I think they will see it without word , '' sigh Jo , for now it seem to her that Beth change every day .
`` Perhaps not .
I 've hear that the people who love best be often blind to such thing .
If they do n't see it , you will tell them for me .
I do n't want any secret , and it 's kind to prepare them .
Meg have John and the baby to comfort her , but you must stand by Father and Mother , wo n't you Jo ? ''
`` If I can .
But , Beth , I do n't give up yet .
I 'm go to believe that it be a sick fancy , and not let you think it 's true . ''
say Jo , try to speak cheerfully .
Beth lay a minute thinking , and then say in her quiet way , `` I do n't know how to express myself , and should n't try to anyone but you , because I ca n't speak out except to my Jo .
I only mean to say that I have a feeling that it never be intend I should live long .
I 'm not like the rest of you .
I never make any plan about what I 'd do when I grow up .
I never think of be marry , a you all do .
I could n't seem to imagine myself anything but stupid little Beth , trot about at home , of no use anywhere but there .
I never want to go away , and the hard part now be the leave you all .
I 'm not afraid , but it seem a if I should be homesick for you even in heaven . ''
Jo could not speak , and for several minute there be no sound but the sigh of the wind and the lapping of the tide .
A white-winged gull flew by , with the flash of sunshine on it silvery breast .
Beth watch it till it vanished , and her eye be full of sadness .
A little gray-coated sand bird come trip over the beach ` peep ' softly to itself , a if enjoy the sun and sea .
It come quite close to Beth , and look at her with a friendly eye and sit upon a warm stone , dress it wet feather , quite at home .
Beth smile and felt comfort , for the tiny thing seem to offer it small friendship and remind her that a pleasant world be still to be enjoy .
`` Dear little bird !
See , Jo , how tame it be .
I like peep well than the gull .
They be not so wild and handsome , but they seem happy , confide little thing .
I use to call them my bird last summer , and Mother say they remind her of me -- busy , quaker-colored creature , always near the shore , and always chirp that content little song of theirs .
You be the gull , Jo , strong and wild , fond of the storm and the wind , fly far out to sea , and happy all alone .
Meg be the turtledove , and Amy be like the lark she write about , try to get up among the cloud , but always drop down into it nest again .
Dear little girl !
She 's so ambitious , but her heart be good and tender , and no matter how high she fly , she never will forget home .
I hope I shall see her again , but she seem so far away . ''
`` She be come in the spring , and I mean that you shall be all ready to see and enjoy her .
I 'm go to have you well and rosy by that time , '' begin Jo , feel that of all the change in Beth , the talk change be the great , for it seem to cost no effort now , and she think aloud in a way quite unlike bashful Beth .
`` Jo , dear , do n't hope any more .
It wo n't do any good .
I 'm sure of that .
We wo n't be miserable , but enjoy be together while we wait .
We 'll have happy time , for I do n't suffer much , and I think the tide will go out easily , if you help me . ''
Jo lean down to kiss the tranquil face , and with that silent kiss , she dedicate herself soul and body to Beth .
She be right .
There be no need of any word when they get home , for Father and Mother saw plainly now what they have pray to be save from see .
Tired with her short journey , Beth go at once to bed , say how glad she be to be home , and when Jo go down , she find that she would be spar the hard task of tell Beth 's secret .
Her father stand lean his head on the mantelpiece and do not turn a she come in , but her mother stretch out her arm a if for help , and Jo go to comfort her without a word .
CHAPTER THIRTY-SEVEN NEW IMPRESSIONS At three o'clock in the afternoon , all the fashionable world at Nice may be see on the Promenade de Anglais -- a charming place , for the wide walk , border with palm , flower , and tropical shrub , be bound on one side by the sea , on the other by the grand drive , line with hotel and villa , while beyond lie orange orchard and the hill .
Many nation be represent , many language speak , many costume wear , and on a sunny day the spectacle be a gay and brilliant a a carnival .
Haughty English , lively French , sober Germans , handsome Spaniards , ugly Russians , meek Jews , free-and-easy Americans , all drive , sit , or saunter here , chat over the news , and criticize the late celebrity who have arrive -- Ristori or Dickens , Victor Emmanuel or the Queen of the Sandwich Islands .
The equipage be as vary a the company and attract as much attention , especially the low basket barouche in which lady drive themselves , with a pair of dash pony , gay net to keep their voluminous flounce from overflow the diminutive vehicle , and little groom on the perch behind .
Along this walk , on Christmas Day , a tall young man walk slowly , with his hand behind him , and a somewhat absent expression of countenance .
He look like an Italian , be dress like an Englishman , and have the independent air of an American -- a combination which cause sundry pair of feminine eye to look approvingly after him , and sundry dandy in black velvet suit , with rose-colored necktie , buff glove , and orange flower in their buttonhole , to shrug their shoulder , and then envy him his inch .
There be plenty of pretty face to admire , but the young man take little notice of them , except to glance now and then at some blonde girl in blue .
Presently he stroll out of the promenade and stand a moment at the crossing , a if undecided whether to go and listen to the band in the Jardin Publique , or to wander along the beach toward Castle Hill .
The quick trot of pony ' foot make him look up , a one of the little carriage , contain a single young lady , come rapidly down the street .
The lady be young , blonde , and dress in blue .
He star a minute , then his whole face wake up , and , wave his hat like a boy , he hurry forward to meet her .
`` Oh , Laurie , be it really you ?
I think you 'd never come ! ''
cry Amy , drop the rein and hold out both hand , to the great scandalization of a French mamma , who hasten her daughter 's step , l she should be demoralize by behold the free manner of these ` mad English ' .
`` I be detain by the way , but I promise to spend Christmas with you , and here I be . ''
`` How be your grandfather ?
When do you come ?
Where be you stay ? ''
`` Very well -- last night -- at the Chauvain .
I call at your hotel , but you be out . ''
`` I have so much to say , I do n't know where to begin !
Get in and we can talk at our ease .
I be go for a drive and longing for company .
Flo 's save up for tonight . ''
`` What happen then , a ball ? ''
`` A Christmas party at our hotel .
There be many Americans there , and they give it in honor of the day .
You 'll go with u , of course ?
Aunt will be charm . ''
`` Thank you .
Where now ? ''
ask Laurie , lean back and fold his arm , a proceeding which suit Amy , who prefer to drive , for her parasol whip and blue rein over the white pony ' back afford her infinite satisfaction .
`` I 'm go to the banker first for letter , and then to Castle Hill .
The view be so lovely , and I like to fee the peacock .
Have you ever be there ? ''
`` Often , year ago , but I do n't mind have a look at it . ''
`` Now tell me all about yourself .
The last I hear of you , your grandfather write that he expect you from Berlin . ''
`` Yes , I spend a month there and then join him in Paris , where he have settle for the winter .
He have friends there and find plenty to amuse him , so I go and come , and we get on capitally . ''
`` That 's a sociable arrangement , '' say Amy , miss something in Laurie 's manner , though she could n't tell what .
`` Why , you see , he hat to travel , and I hate to keep still , so we each suit ourselves , and there be no trouble .
I be often with him , and he enjoy my adventure , while I like to feel that someone be glad to see me when I get back from my wandering .
Dirty old hole , be n't it ? ''
he add , with a look of disgust a they drive along the boulevard to the Place Napoleon in the old city .
`` The dirt be picturesque , so I do n't mind .
The river and the hill be delicious , and these glimpse of the narrow cross street be my delight .
Now we shall have to wait for that procession to pas .
It 's go to the Church of St. John . ''
While Laurie listlessly watch the procession of priest under their canopy , white-veiled nun bear lighted taper , and some brotherhood in blue chant a they walk , Amy watch him , and felt a new sort of shyness steal over her , for he be change , and she could not find the merry-faced boy she leave in the moody-looking man beside her .
He be handsome than ever and greatly improve , she think , but now that the flush of pleasure at meet her be over , he look tired and spiritless -- not sick , nor exactly unhappy , but old and graver than a year or two of prosperous life should have make him .
She could n't understand it and do not venture to ask question , so she shake her head and touch up her pony , a the procession wind away across the arch of the Paglioni bridge and vanish in the church .
`` Que pensez-vous ? ''
she say , air her French , which have improve in quantity , if not in quality , since she come abroad .
`` That mademoiselle have make good use of her time , and the result be charm , '' reply Laurie , bow with his hand on his heart and an admiring look .
She blush with pleasure , but somehow the compliment do not satisfy her like the blunt praise he use to give her at home , when he promenade round her on festival occasion , and tell her she be ` altogether jolly ' , with a hearty smile and an approve pat on the head .
She do n't like the new tone , for though not blase , it sound indifferent in spite of the look .
`` If that 's the way he 's go to grow up , I wish he 'd stay a boy , '' she think , with a curious sense of disappointment and discomfort , try meantime to seem quite easy and gay .
At Avigdor 's she find the precious home letter and , give the rein to Laurie , read them luxuriously a they wind up the shady road between green hedge , where tea roses bloom as freshly a in June .
`` Beth be very poorly , Mother say .
I often think I ought to go home , but they all say ` stay ' .
So I do , for I shall never have another chance like this , '' say Amy , look sober over one page .
`` I think you be right , there .
You could do nothing at home , and it be a great comfort to them to know that you be well and happy , and enjoy so much , my dear . ''
He draw a little nearer , and look more like his old self a he say that , and the fear that sometimes weigh on Amy 's heart be lighten , for the look , the act , the brotherly ` my dear ' , seem to assure her that if any trouble do come , she would not be alone in a strange land .
Presently she laugh and show him a small sketch of Jo in her scribbling suit , with the bow rampantly erect upon her cap , and issue from her mouth the word , ` Genius burn ! '
.
Laurie smile , take it , put it in his vest pocket ` to keep it from blow away ' , and listen with interest to the lively letter Amy read him .
`` This will be a regularly merry Christmas to me , with present in the morning , you and letter in the afternoon , and a party at night , '' say Amy , a they alight among the ruin of the old fort , and a flock of splendid peacock come troop about them , tamely wait to be feed .
While Amy stand laugh on the bank above him a she scatter crumb to the brilliant bird , Laurie look at her a she have look at him , with a natural curiosity to see what change time and absence have work .
He find nothing to perplex or disappoint , much to admire and approve , for overlook a few little affectation of speech and manner , she be as sprightly and graceful a ever , with the addition of that indescribable something in dress and bearing which we call elegance .
Always mature for her age , she have gain a certain aplomb in both carriage and conversation , which make her seem more of a woman of the world than she be , but her old petulance now and then show itself , her strong will still hold it own , and her native frankness be unspoiled by foreign polish .
Laurie do not read all this while he watch her fee the peacock , but he saw enough to satisfy and interest him , and carry away a pretty little picture of a bright-faced girl standing in the sunshine , which bring out the soft hue of her dress , the fresh color of her cheek , the golden gloss of her hair , and make her a prominent figure in the pleasant scene .
As they come up onto the stone plateau that crown the hill , Amy wave her hand a if welcome him to her favorite haunt , and say , point here and there , `` Do you remember the Cathedral and the Corso , the fisherman drag their net in the bay , and the lovely road to Villa Franca , Schubert 's Tower , just below , and best of all , that speck far out to sea which they say be Corsica ? ''
`` I remember .
It 's not much change , '' he answer without enthusiasm .
`` What Jo would give for a sight of that famous speck ! ''
say Amy , feeling in good spirit and anxious to see him so also .
`` Yes , '' be all he say , but he turn and strain his eye to see the island which a great usurper than even Napoleon now make interest in his sight .
`` Take a good look at it for her sake , and then come and tell me what you have be do with yourself all this while , '' say Amy , seat herself , ready for a good talk .
But she do not get it , for though he join her and answer all her question freely , she could only learn that he have rove about the Continent and be to Greece .
So after idle away an hour , they drive home again , and have pay his respect to Mrs. Carrol , Laurie leave them , promise to return in the evening .
It must be record of Amy that she deliberately prink that night .
Time and absence have do it work on both the young people .
She have see her old friend in a new light , not a ` our boy ' , but a a handsome and agreeable man , and she be conscious of a very natural desire to find favor in his sight .
Amy know her good point , and make the most of them with the taste and skill which be a fortune to a poor and pretty woman .
Tarlatan and tulle be cheap at Nice , so she envelop herself in them on such occasion , and follow the sensible English fashion of simple dress for young girl , get up charm little toilette with fresh flower , a few trinket , and all manner of dainty device , which be both inexpensive and effective .
It must be confess that the artist sometimes get possession of the woman , and indulge in antique coiffure , statuesque attitude , and classic drapery .
But , dear heart , we all have our little weakness , and find it easy to pardon such in the young , who satisfy our eye with their comeliness , and keep our heart merry with their artless vanity .
`` I do want him to think I look well , and tell them so at home , '' say Amy to herself , a she put on Flo 's old white silk ball dress , and cover it with a cloud of fresh illusion , out of which her white shoulder and golden head emerge with a most artistic effect .
Her hair she have the sense to let alone , after gather up the thick wave and curl into a Hebe-like knot at the back of her head .
`` It 's not the fashion , but it 's become , and I ca n't afford to make a fright of myself , '' she use to say , when advise to frizzle , puff , or braid , a the late style command .
Having no ornament fine enough for this important occasion , Amy loop her fleecy skirt with rosy cluster of azalea , and frame the white shoulder in delicate green vine .
Remembering the painted boot , she survey her white satin slipper with girlish satisfaction , and chasse down the room , admire her aristocratic foot all by herself .
`` My new fan just match my flower , my glove fit to a charm , and the real lace on Aunt 's mouchoir give an air to my whole dress .
If I only have a classical nose and mouth I should be perfectly happy , '' she say , survey herself with a critical eye and a candle in each hand .
In spite of this affliction , she look unusually gay and graceful a she glide away .
She seldom run -- it do not suit her style , she think , for be tall , the stately and Junoesque be more appropriate than the sportive or piquante .
She walk up and down the long saloon while wait for Laurie , and once arrange herself under the chandelier , which have a good effect upon her hair , then she think good of it , and go away to the other end of the room , a if ashamed of the girlish desire to have the first view a propitious one .
It so happen that she could not have do a well thing , for Laurie come in so quietly she do not hear him , and a she stand at the distant window , with her head half turn and one hand gather up her dress , the slender , white figure against the red curtain be as effective a a well-placed statue .
`` Good evening , Diana ! ''
say Laurie , with the look of satisfaction she like to see in his eye when they rest on her .
`` Good evening , Apollo ! ''
she answer , smile back at him , for he too look unusually debonair , and the thought of enter the ballroom on the arm of such a personable man cause Amy to pity the four plain Misses Davis from the bottom of her heart .
`` Here be your flower .
I arrange them myself , remember that you do n't like what Hannah call a ` sot-bookay ' , '' say Laurie , hand her a delicate nosegay , in a holder that she have long covet a she daily pass it in Cardiglia 's window .
`` How kind you be ! ''
she exclaim gratefully .
`` If I 'd know you be come I 'd have have something ready for you today , though not as pretty a this , I 'm afraid . ''
`` Thank you .
It be n't what it should be , but you have improve it , '' he add , a she snap the silver bracelet on her wrist .
`` Please do n't . ''
`` I think you like that sort of thing . ''
`` Not from you , it do n't sound natural , and I like your old bluntness well . ''
`` I 'm glad of it , '' he answer , with a look of relief , then button her glove for her , and ask if his tie be straight , just a he use to do when they go to party together at home .
The company assemble in the long salle a manger , that evening , be such a one see nowhere but on the Continent .
The hospitable Americans have invite every acquaintance they have in Nice , and have no prejudice against title , secure a few to add luster to their Christmas ball .
A Russian prince condescend to sit in a corner for an hour and talk with a massive lady , dress like Hamlet 's mother in black velvet with a pearl bridle under her chin .
A Polish count , age eighteen , devote himself to the lady , who pronounce him , ' a fascinating dear ' , and a German Serene Something , have come to supper alone , roam vaguely about , seek what he might devour .
Baron Rothschild 's private secretary , a large-nosed Jew in tight boot , affably beam upon the world , a if his master 's name crown him with a golden halo .
A stout Frenchman , who know the Emperor , come to indulge his mania for dancing , and Lady de Jones , a British matron , adorn the scene with her little family of eight .
Of course , there be many light-footed , shrill-voiced American girl , handsome , lifeless-looking English ditto , and a few plain but piquante French demoiselle , likewise the usual set of travel young gentleman who disport themselves gaily , while mamma of all nation line the wall and smile upon them benignly when they dance with their daughter .
Any young girl can imagine Amy 's state of mind when she ` take the stage ' that night , lean on Laurie 's arm .
She know she look well , she love to dance , she felt that her foot be on her native heath in a ballroom , and enjoy the delightful sense of power which come when young girl first discover the new and lovely kingdom they be bear to rule by virtue of beauty , youth , and womanhood .
She do pity the Davis girl , who be awkward , plain , and destitute of escort , except a grim papa and three grimmer maiden aunt , and she bow to them in her friendly manner a she pass , which be good of her , a it permit them to see her dress , and burn with curiosity to know who her distinguished-looking friend might be .
With the first burst of the band , Amy 's color rise , her eye begin to sparkle , and her foot to tap the floor impatiently , for she dance well and want Laurie to know it .
Therefore the shock she receive can well be imagine than described , when he say in a perfectly tranquil tone , `` Do you care to dance ? ''
`` One usually do at a ball . ''
Her amazed look and quick answer cause Laurie to repair his error as fast a possible .
`` I mean the first dance .
May I have the honor ? ''
`` I can give you one if I put off the Count .
He dance devinely , but he will excuse me , a you be an old friend , '' say Amy , hop that the name would have a good effect , and show Laurie that she be not to be trifle with .
`` Nice little boy , but rather a short Pole to support ... A daughter of the god , Devinely tall , and most devinely fair , '' be all the satisfaction she get , however .
The set in which they find themselves be compose of English , and Amy be compel to walk decorously through a cotillion , feel all the while a if she could dance the tarantella with relish .
Laurie resign her to the ` nice little boy ' , and go to do his duty to Flo , without secure Amy for the joy to come , which reprehensible want of forethought be properly punish , for she immediately engage herself till supper , mean to relent if he then give any sign penitence .
She show him her ball book with demure satisfaction when he stroll instead of rush up to claim her for the next , a glorious polka redowa .
But his polite regret do n't impose upon her , and when she gallop away with the Count , she saw Laurie sit down by her aunt with an actual expression of relief .
That be unpardonable , and Amy take no more notice of him for a long while , except a word now and then when she come to her chaperon between the dance for a necessary pin or a moment 's rest .
Her anger have a good effect , however , for she hide it under a smiling face , and seem unusually blithe and brilliant .
Laurie 's eye follow her with pleasure , for she neither romp nor sauntered , but dance with spirit and grace , make the delightsome pastime what it should be .
He very naturally fell to study her from this new point of view , and before the evening be half over , have decide that ` little Amy be go to make a very charming woman ' .
It be a lively scene , for soon the spirit of the social season take possession of everyone , and Christmas merriment make all face shine , heart happy , and heel light .
The musician fiddle , toot , and bang a if they enjoy it , everybody dance who could , and those who could n't admire their neighbor with uncommon warmth .
The air be dark with Davises , and many Joneses gambol like a flock of young giraffe .
The golden secretary dart through the room like a meteor with a dash French-woman who carpet the floor with her pink satin train .
The serene Teuton find the supper-table and be happy , eat steadily through the bill of fare , and dismay the garcons by the ravage he commit .
But the Emperor 's friend cover himself with glory , for he dance everything , whether he know it or not , and introduce impromptu pirouette when the figure bewilder him .
The boyish abandon of that stout man be charm to behold , for though he ` carried weight ' , he dance like an India-rubber ball .
He run , he fly , he prance , his face glow , his bald head show , his coattail wave wildly , his pump actually twinkle in the air , and when the music stop , he wipe the drop from his brow , and beam upon his fellow men like a French Pickwick without glass .
Amy and her Pole distinguish themselves by equal enthusiasm but more graceful agility , and Laurie find himself involuntarily keep time to the rhythmic rise and fall of the white slipper a they fly by as indefatigably a if wing .
When little Vladimir finally relinquish her , with assurance that he be ` desolate to leave so early ' , she be ready to rest , and see how her recreant knight have bear his punishment .
It have be successful , for at three-and-twenty , blight affection find a balm in friendly society , and young nerve will thrill , young blood dance , and healthy young spirit rise , when subject to the enchantment of beauty , light , music , and motion .
Laurie have a waked-up look a he rise to give her his seat , and when he hurry away to bring her some supper , she say to herself , with a satisfied smile , `` Ah , I think that would do him good ! ''
`` You look like Balzac 's ' Femme Peinte Par Elle-Meme ' , '' he say , a he fan her with one hand and hold her coffee cup in the other .
`` My rouge wo n't come off . ''
and Amy rub her brilliant cheek , and show him her white glove with a sober simplicity that make him laugh outright .
`` What do you call this stuff ? ''
he ask , touch a fold of her dress that have blow over his knee .
`` Illusion . ''
`` Good name for it .
It 's very pretty -- new thing , be n't it ? ''
`` It 's as old a the hill .
You have see it on dozen of girl , and you never find out that it be pretty till now -- stupide ! ''
`` I never saw it on you before , which account for the mistake , you see . ''
`` None of that , it be forbidden .
I 'd rather take coffee than compliment just now .
No , do n't lounge , it make me nervous . ''
Laurie sit bold upright , and meekly take her empty plate feel an odd sort of pleasure in have ` little Amy ' order him about , for she have lose her shyness now , and felt an irrestible desire to trample on him , a girl have a delightful way of do when lord of creation show any sign of subjection .
`` Where do you learn all this sort of thing ? ''
he ask with a quizzical look .
`` As ` this sort of thing ' be rather a vague expression , would you kindly explain ? ''
return Amy , know perfectly well what he mean , but wickedly leave him to describe what be indescribable .
`` Well -- the general air , the style , the self-possession , the -- the -- illusion -- you know '' , laugh Laurie , break down and help himself out of his quandary with the new word .
Amy be gratify , but of course do n't show it , and demurely answer , `` Foreign life polish one in spite of one 's self .
I study as well a play , and a for this '' -- with a little gesture toward her dress -- `` why , tulle be cheap , posy to be have for nothing , and I be use to make the most of my poor little thing . ''
Amy rather regret that last sentence , fear it be n't in good taste , but Laurie like her better for it , and find himself both admire and respect the brave patience that make the most of opportunity , and the cheerful spirit that cover poverty with flower .
Amy do not know why he look at her so kindly , nor why he fill up her book with his own name , and devote himself to her for the rest of the evening in the most delightful manner ; but the impulse that work this agreeable change be the result of one of the new impression which both of them be unconsciously give and receive .
CHAPTER THIRTY-EIGHT ON THE SHELF In France the young girl have a dull time of it till they be marry , when ` Vive la liberte ! '
becomes their motto .
In America , a everyone know , girl early sign the declaration of independence , and enjoy their freedom with republican zest , but the young matron usually abdicate with the first heir to the throne and go into a seclusion almost as close a a French nunnery , though by no mean a quiet .
Whether they like it or not , they be virtually put upon the shelf as soon a the wedding excitement be over , and most of them might exclaim , a do a very pretty woman the other day , `` I 'm as handsome a ever , but no one take any notice of me because I 'm married . ''
Not be a belle or even a fashionable lady , Meg do not experience this affliction till her baby be a year old , for in her little world primitive custom prevail , and she find herself more admired and beloved than ever .
As she be a womanly little woman , the maternal instinct be very strong , and she be entirely absorb in her child , to the utter exclusion of everything and everybody else .
Day and night she brood over them with tireless devotion and anxiety , leave John to the tender mercy of the help , for an Irish lady now preside over the kitchen department .
Being a domestic man , John decidedly miss the wifely attention he have be accustom to receive , but a he adore his baby , he cheerfully relinquish his comfort for a time , suppose with masculine ignorance that peace would soon be restore .
But three month pass , and there be no return of repose .
Meg look worn and nervous , the baby absorb every minute of her time , the house be neglect , and Kitty , the cook , who take life ` aisy ' , keep him on short common .
When he go out in the morning he be bewilder by small commission for the captive mamma , if he come gaily in at night , eager to embrace his family , he be quench by a `` Hush !
They be just asleep after worry all day . ''
If he propose a little amusement at home , `` No , it would disturb the baby . ''
If he hint at a lecture or a concert , he be answer with a reproachful look , and a decided -- `` Leave my child for pleasure , never ! ''
His sleep be break by infant wail and vision of a phantom figure pace noiselessly to and fro in the watch of the night .
His meal be interrupt by the frequent flight of the preside genius , who desert him , half-helped , if a muffled chirp sound from the nest above .
And when he read his paper of an evening , Demi 's colic get into the shipping list and Daisy 's fall affect the price of stock , for Mrs. Brooke be only interested in domestic news .
The poor man be very uncomfortable , for the child have bereft him of his wife , home be merely a nursery and the perpetual ` hush ' make him feel like a brutal intruder whenever he enter the sacred precinct of Babyland .
He bore it very patiently for six month , and when no sign of amendment appear , he do what other paternal exile do -- try to get a little comfort elsewhere .
Scott have marry and go to housekeep not far off , and John fell into the way of run over for an hour or two of an evening , when his own parlor be empty , and his own wife sing lullaby that seem to have no end .
Mrs. Scott be a lively , pretty girl , with nothing to do but be agreeable , and she perform her mission most successfully .
The parlor be always bright and attractive , the chessboard ready , the piano in tune , plenty of gay gossip , and a nice little supper set forth in tempt style .
John would have prefer his own fireside if it have not be so lonely , but a it be he gratefully take the next best thing and enjoy his neighbor 's society .
Meg rather approve of the new arrangement at first , and find it a relief to know that John be have a good time instead of doze in the parlor , or tramp about the house and wake the child .
But by-and-by , when the teething worry be over and the idol go to sleep at proper hour , leave Mamma time to rest , she begin to miss John , and find her workbasket dull company , when he be not sit opposite in his old dressing gown , comfortably scorch his slipper on the fender .
She would not ask him to stay at home , but felt injured because he do not know that she want him without be tell , entirely forget the many evening he have wait for her in vain .
She be nervous and wear out with watch and worry , and in that unreasonable frame of mind which the best of mother occasionally experience when domestic care oppress them .
Want of exercise rob them of cheerfulness , and too much devotion to that idol of American woman , the teapot , make them feel a if they be all nerve and no muscle .
`` Yes , '' she would say , look in the glass , `` I 'm get old and ugly .
John do n't find me interest any long , so he leave his faded wife and go to see his pretty neighbor , who have no incumbrance .
Well , the baby love me , they do n't care if I be thin and pale and have n't time to crimp my hair , they be my comfort , and some day John will see what I 've gladly sacrifice for them , wo n't he , my precious ? ''
To which pathetic appeal Daisy would answer with a coo , or Demi with a crow , and Meg would put by her lamentation for a maternal revel , which soothe her solitude for the time be .
But the pain increase a politics absorbed John , who be always run over to discuss interesting point with Scott , quite unconscious that Meg miss him .
Not a word do she say , however , till her mother find her in tears one day , and insist on know what the matter be , for Meg 's droop spirit have not escape her observation .
`` I would n't tell anyone except you , Mother , but I really do need advice , for if John go on much long I might as well be widow , '' reply Mrs. Brooke , dry her tear on Daisy 's bib with an injured air .
`` Goes on how , my dear ? ''
ask her mother anxiously .
`` He 's away all day , and at night when I want to see him , he be continually go over to the Scotts ' .
It be n't fair that I should have the hard work , and never any amusement .
Men be very selfish , even the best of them . ''
`` So be woman .
Do n't blame John till you see where you be wrong yourself . ''
`` But it ca n't be right for him to neglect me . ''
`` Do n't you neglect him ? ''
`` Why , Mother , I think you 'd take my part ! ''
`` So I do , as far a sympathizing go , but I think the fault be yours , Meg . ''
`` I do n't see how . ''
`` Let me show you .
Did John ever neglect you , a you call it , while you make it a point to give him your society of an evening , his only leisure time ? ''
`` No , but I ca n't do it now , with two baby to tend . ''
`` I think you could , dear , and I think you ought .
May I speak quite freely , and will you remember that it 's Mother who blame as well a Mother who sympathize ? ''
`` Indeed I will !
Speak to me a if I be little Meg again .
I often feel a if I need teach more than ever since these baby look to me for everything . ''
Meg draw her low chair beside her mother 's , and with a little interruption in either lap , the two woman rock and talk lovingly together , feel that the tie of motherhood make them more one than ever .
`` You have only make the mistake that most young wife make -- forget your duty to your husband in your love for your child .
A very natural and forgivable mistake , Meg , but one that have good be remedied before you take to different way , for child should draw you near than ever , not separate you , a if they be all yours , and John have nothing to do but support them .
I 've see it for some week , but have not speak , feel sure it would come right in time . ''
`` I 'm afraid it wo n't .
If I ask him to stay , he 'll think I 'm jealous , and I would n't insult him by such an idea .
He do n't see that I want him , and I do n't know how to tell him without word . ''
`` Make it so pleasant he wo n't want to go away .
My dear , he 's long for his little home , but it be n't home without you , and you be always in the nursery . ''
`` Ought n't I to be there ? ''
`` Not all the time , too much confinement make you nervous , and then you be unfitted for everything .
Besides , you owe something to John as well a to the baby .
Do n't neglect husband for child , do n't shut him out of the nursery , but teach him how to help in it .
His place be there as well a yours , and the child need him .
Let him feel that he have a part to do , and he will do it gladly and faithfully , and it will be good for you all . ''
`` You really think so , Mother ? ''
`` I know it , Meg , for I 've try it , and I seldom give advice unless I 've prove it practicability .
When you and Jo be little , I go on just a you be , feel a if I do n't do my duty unless I devote myself wholly to you .
Poor Father take to his book , after I have refuse all offer of help , and leave me to try my experiment alone .
I struggle along as well a I could , but Jo be too much for me .
I nearly spoil her by indulgence .
You be poorly , and I worry about you till I fell sick myself .
Then Father come to the rescue , quietly manage everything , and make himself so helpful that I saw my mistake , and never have be able to get on without him since .
That be the secret of our home happiness .
He do not let business wean him from the little care and duty that affect u all , and I try not to let domestic worry destroy my interest in his pursuit .
Each do our part alone in many thing , but at home we work together , always . ''
`` It be so , Mother , and my great wish be to be to my husband and child what you have be to yours .
Show me how , I 'll do anything you say . ''
`` You always be my docile daughter .
Well , dear , if I be you , I 'd let John have more to do with the management of Demi , for the boy need training , and it 's none too soon to begin .
Then I 'd do what I have often propose , let Hannah come and help you .
She be a capital nurse , and you may trust the precious baby to her while you do more housework .
You need the exercise , Hannah would enjoy the rest , and John would find his wife again .
Go out more , keep cheerful as well a busy , for you be the sunshine-maker of the family , and if you get dismal there be no fair weather .
Then I 'd try to take an interest in whatever John like -- talk with him , let him read to you , exchange idea , and help each other in that way .
Do n't shut yourself up in a bandbox because you be a woman , but understand what be go on , and educate yourself to take your part in the world 's work , for it all affect you and yours . ''
`` John be so sensible , I 'm afraid he will think I 'm stupid if I ask question about politics and thing . ''
`` I do n't believe he would .
Love cover a multitude of sin , and of whom could you ask more freely than of him ?
Try it , and see if he do n't find your society far more agreeable than Mrs. Scott 's supper . ''
`` I will .
Poor John !
I 'm afraid I have neglect him sadly , but I think I be right , and he never say anything . ''
`` He try not to be selfish , but he have felt rather forlorn , I fancy .
This be just the time , Meg , when young marry people be apt to grow apart , and the very time when they ought to be most together , for the first tenderness soon wear off , unless care be take to preserve it .
And no time be so beautiful and precious to parent a the first year of the little life give to them to train .
Do n't let John be a stranger to the baby , for they will do more to keep him safe and happy in this world of trial and temptation than anything else , and through them you will learn to know and love one another a you should .
Now , dear , good-by .
Think over Mother 's preachment , act upon it if it seem good , and God bless you all . ''
Meg do think it over , find it good , and act upon it , though the first attempt be not make exactly a she plan to have it .
Of course the child tyrannize over her , and rule the house as soon a they find out that kick and squall bring them whatever they want .
Mamma be an abject slave to their caprice , but Papa be not so easily subjugate , and occasionally afflict his tender spouse by an attempt at paternal discipline with his obstreperous son .
For Demi inherit a trifle of his sire 's firmness of character , we wo n't call it obstinacy , and when he make up his little mind to have or to do anything , all the king 's horse and all the king 's men could not change that pertinacious little mind .
Mamma think the dear too young to be teach to conquer his prejudice , but Papa believe that it never be too soon to learn obedience .
So Master Demi early discover that when he undertake to ` wrastle ' with ` Parpar ' , he always get the bad of it , yet like the Englishman , baby respect the man who conquer him , and love the father whose grave `` No , no , '' be more impressive than all Mamma 's love pat .
A few day after the talk with her mother , Meg resolve to try a social evening with John , so she order a nice supper , set the parlor in order , dress herself prettily , and put the child to bed early , that nothing should interfere with her experiment .
But unfortunately Demi 's most unconquerable prejudice be against go to bed , and that night he decide to go on a rampage .
So poor Meg sang and rock , tell story and tried every sleep-prevoking wile she could devise , but all in vain , the big eye would n't shut , and long after Daisy have go to byelow , like the chubby little bunch of good nature she be , naughty Demi lay star at the light , with the most discouragingly wide-awake expression of countenance .
`` Will Demi lie still like a good boy , while Mamma run down and give poor Papa his tea ? ''
ask Meg , a the hall door softly close , and the well-known step go tip-toeing into the dining room .
`` Me have tea ! ''
say Demi , prepare to join in the revel .
`` No , but I 'll save you some little cakies for breakfast , if you 'll go bye-bye like Daisy .
Will you , lovey ? ''
`` Iss ! ''
and Demi shut his eye tight , a if to catch sleep and hurry the desired day .
Taking advantage of the propitious moment , Meg slip away and run down to greet her husband with a smile face and the little blue bow in her hair which be his especial admiration .
He saw it at once and say with pleased surprise , `` Why , little mother , how gay we be tonight .
Do you expect company ? ''
`` Only you , dear . ''
`` Is it a birthday , anniversary , or anything ? ''
`` No , I 'm tired of be dowdy , so I dress up a a change .
You always make yourself nice for table , no matter how tire you be , so why should n't I when I have the time ? ''
`` I do it out of respect for you , my dear , '' say old-fashioned John .
`` Ditto , ditto , Mr. Brooke , '' laugh Meg , look young and pretty again , a she nod to him over the teapot .
`` Well , it 's altogether delightful , and like old time .
This taste right .
I drink your health , dear . ''
and John sip his tea with an air of reposeful rapture , which be of very short duration however , for a he put down his cup , the door handle rattle mysteriously , and a little voice be hear , say impatiently ... `` Opy doy .
Me 's tummin ! ''
`` It 's that naughty boy .
I tell him to go to sleep alone , and here he be , downstairs , get his death a-cold pattering over that canvas , '' say Meg , answer the call .
`` Mornin ' now , '' announce Demi in joyful tone a he enter , with his long nightgown gracefully festoon over his arm and every curl bob gayly a he prance about the table , eye the ` cakies ' with loving glance .
`` No , it be n't morning yet .
You must go to bed , and not trouble poor Mamma .
Then you can have the little cake with sugar on it . ''
`` Me love Parpar , '' say the artful one , prepare to climb the paternal knee and revel in forbidden joy .
But John shake his head , and say to Meg ... `` If you tell him to stay up there , and go to sleep alone , make him do it , or he will never learn to mind you . ''
`` Yes , of course .
Come , Demi , '' and Meg lead her son away , feel a strong desire to spank the little marplot who hop beside her , labor under the delusion that the bribe be to be administer as soon a they reach the nursery .
Nor be he disappoint , for that shortsighted woman actually give him a lump of sugar , tuck him into his bed , and forbid any more promenade till morning .
`` Iss ! ''
say Demi the perjured , blissfully suck his sugar , and regard his first attempt a eminently successful .
Meg return to her place , and supper be progress pleasantly , when the little ghost walk again , and expose the maternal delinquency by boldly demand , `` More sudar , Marmar . ''
`` Now this wo n't do , '' say John , harden his heart against the engaging little sinner .
`` We shall never know any peace till that child learn to go to bed properly .
You have make a slave of yourself long enough .
Give him one lesson , and then there will be an end of it .
Put him in his bed and leave him , Meg . ''
`` He wo n't stay there , he never do unless I sit by him . ''
`` I 'll manage him .
Demi , go upstairs , and get into your bed , a Mamma bid you . ''
`` S'ant ! ''
reply the young rebel , help himself to the covet ` cakie ' , and begin to eat the same with calm audacity .
`` You must never say that to Papa .
I shall carry you if you do n't go yourself . ''
`` Go ` way , me do n't love Parpar . ''
and Demi retire to his mother 's skirt for protection .
But even that refuge prove unavailing , for he be deliver over to the enemy , with a `` Be gentle with him , John , '' which strike the culprit with dismay , for when Mamma desert him , then the judgment day be at hand .
Bereft of his cake , defraud of his frolic , and bear away by a strong hand to that detest bed , poor Demi could not restrain his wrath , but openly defy Papa , and kick and scream lustily all the way upstairs .
The minute he be put into bed on one side , he roll out on the other , and make for the door , only to be ignominiously catch up by the tail of his little toga and put back again , which lively performance be keep up till the young man 's strength give out , when he devote himself to roar at the top of his voice .
This vocal exercise usually conquer Meg , but John sit as unmoved a the post which be popularly believe to be deaf .
No coaxing , no sugar , no lullaby , no story , even the light be put out and only the red glow of the fire enliven the ` big dark ' which Demi regard with curiosity rather than fear .
This new order of thing disgust him , and he howl dismally for ` Marmar ' , a his angry passion subside , and recollection of his tender bondwoman return to the captive autocrat .
The plaintive wail which succeed the passionate roar go to Meg 's heart , and she run up to say beseechingly ... `` Let me stay with him , he 'll be good now , John . ''
`` No , my dear .
I 've tell him he must go to sleep , a you bid him , and he must , if I stay here all night . ''
`` But he 'll cry himself sick , '' plead Meg , reproach herself for desert her boy .
`` No , he wo n't , he 's so tired he will soon drop off and then the matter be settle , for he will understand that he have get to mind .
Do n't interfere , I 'll manage him . ''
`` He 's my child , and I ca n't have his spirit break by harshness . ''
`` He 's my child , and I wo n't have his temper spoil by indulgence .
Go down , my dear , and leave the boy to me . ''
When John speak in that masterful tone , Meg always obey , and never regret her docility .
`` Please let me kiss him once , John ? ''
`` Certainly .
Demi , say good night to Mamma , and let her go and rest , for she be very tired with take care of you all day . ''
Meg always insist upon it that the kiss win the victory , for after it be give , Demi sob more quietly , and lay quite still at the bottom of the bed , whither he have wriggle in his anguish of mind .
`` Poor little man , he 's wear out with sleep and cry .
I 'll cover him up , and then go and set Meg 's heart at rest , '' think John , creep to the bedside , hop to find his rebellious heir asleep .
But he be n't , for the moment his father peep at him , Demi 's eye open , his little chin begin to quiver , and he put up his arm , say with a penitent hiccough , `` Me 's dood , now . ''
Sitting on the stair outside Meg wonder at the long silence which follow the uproar , and after imagine all sort of impossible accident , she slip into the room to set her fear at rest .
Demi lay fast asleep , not in his usual spreadeagle attitude , but in a subdued bunch , cuddle close in the circle of his father 's arm and hold his father 's finger , a if he felt that justice be temper with mercy , and have go to sleep a sadder and wiser baby .
So held , John have wait with a womanly patience till the little hand relax it hold , and while wait have fall asleep , more tire by that tussle with his son than with his whole day 's work .
As Meg stand watch the two face on the pillow , she smile to herself , and then slip away again , say in a satisfied tone , `` I never need fear that John will be too harsh with my baby .
He do know how to manage them , and will be a great help , for Demi be get too much for me . ''
When John come down at last , expect to find a pensive or reproachful wife , he be agreeably surprised to find Meg placidly trim a bonnet , and to be greet with the request to read something about the election , if he be not too tired .
John saw in a minute that a revolution of some kind be go on , but wisely ask no question , know that Meg be such a transparent little person , she could n't keep a secret to save her life , and therefore the clue would soon appear .
He read a long debate with the most amiable readiness and then explain it in his most lucid manner , while Meg try to look deeply interested , to ask intelligent question , and keep her thought from wander from the state of the nation to the state of her bonnet .
In her secret soul , however , she decide that politics be as bad a mathematics , and that the mission of politician seem to be call each other name , but she keep these feminine idea to herself , and when John pause , shake her head and say with what she think diplomatic ambiguity , `` Well , I really do n't see what we be come to . ''
John laugh , and watch her for a minute , a she poise a pretty little preparation of lace and flower on her hand , and regard it with the genuine interest which his harangue have fail to waken .
`` She be try to like politics for my sake , so I 'll try and like millinery for hers , that 's only fair , '' think John the Just , add aloud , `` That 's very pretty .
Is it what you call a breakfast cap ? ''
`` My dear man , it 's a bonnet !
My very best go-to-concert-and-theater bonnet . ''
`` I beg your pardon , it be so small , I naturally mistake it for one of the flyaway thing you sometimes wear .
How do you keep it on ? ''
`` These bit of lace be fasten under the chin with a rosebud , so , '' and Meg illustrate by put on the bonnet and regard him with an air of calm satisfaction that be irresistible .
`` It 's a love of a bonnet , but I prefer the face inside , for it look young and happy again , '' and John kiss the smile face , to the great detriment of the rosebud under the chin .
`` I 'm glad you like it , for I want you to take me to one of the new concert some night .
I really need some music to put me in tune .
Will you , please ? ''
`` Of course I will , with all my heart , or anywhere else you like .
You have be shut up so long , it will do you no end of good , and I shall enjoy it , of all thing .
What put it into your head , little mother ? ''
`` Well , I have a talk with Marmee the other day , and tell her how nervous and cross and out of sort I felt , and she say I need change and less care , so Hannah be to help me with the child , and I 'm to see to thing about the house more , and now and then have a little fun , just to keep me from get to be a fidgety , broken-down old woman before my time .
It 's only an experiment , John , and I want to try it for your sake as much a for mine , because I 've neglect you shamefully lately , and I 'm go to make home what it use to be , if I can .
You do n't object , I hope ? ''
Never mind what John say , or what a very narrow escape the little bonnet have from utter ruin .
All that we have any business to know be that John do not appear to object , judge from the change which gradually take place in the house and it inmate .
It be not all Paradise by any mean , but everyone be well for the division of labor system .
The child thrive under the paternal rule , for accurate , steadfast John bring order and obedience into Babydom , while Meg recover her spirit and compose her nerve by plenty of wholesome exercise , a little pleasure , and much confidential conversation with her sensible husband .
Home grow homelike again , and John have no wish to leave it , unless he take Meg with him .
The Scotts come to the Brookes ' now , and everyone find the little house a cheerful place , full of happiness , content , and family love .
Even Sallie Moffatt like to go there .
`` It be always so quiet and pleasant here , it do me good , Meg , '' she use to say , look about her with wistful eye , a if try to discover the charm , that she might use it in her great house , full of splendid loneliness , for there be no riotous , sunny-faced baby there , and Ned live in a world of his own , where there be no place for her .
This household happiness do not come all at once , but John and Meg have find the key to it , and each year of married life teach them how to use it , unlock the treasury of real home love and mutual helpfulness , which the poor may possess , and the rich can not buy .
This be the sort of shelf on which young wife and mother may consent to be lay , safe from the restless fret and fever of the world , find loyal lover in the little son and daughter who cling to them , undaunted by sorrow , poverty , or age , walk side by side , through fair and stormy weather , with a faithful friend , who be , in the true sense of the good old Saxon word , the ` house-band ' , and learning , a Meg learn , that a woman 's happy kingdom be home , her high honor the art of rule it not a a queen , but a a wise wife and mother .
CHAPTER THIRTY-NINE LAZY LAURENCE Laurie go to Nice intend to stay a week , and remain a month .
He be tire of wander about alone , and Amy 's familiar presence seem to give a homelike charm to the foreign scene in which she bore a part .
He rather miss the ` petting ' he use to receive , and enjoy a taste of it again , for no attention , however flatter , from stranger , be half so pleasant a the sisterly adoration of the girl at home .
Amy never would pet him like the others , but she be very glad to see him now , and quite clung to him , feel that he be the representative of the dear family for whom she long more than she would confess .
They naturally take comfort in each other 's society and be much together , rid , walk , dance , or dawdling , for at Nice no one can be very industrious during the gay season .
But , while apparently amuse themselves in the most careless fashion , they be half-consciously make discovery and form opinion about each other .
Amy rise daily in the estimation of her friend , but he sink in hers , and each felt the truth before a word be speak .
Amy try to please , and succeed , for she be grateful for the many pleasure he give her , and repay him with the little service to which womanly woman know how to lend an indescribable charm .
Laurie make no effort of any kind , but just let himself drift along as comfortably a possible , try to forget , and feel that all woman owe him a kind word because one have be cold to him .
It cost him no effort to be generous , and he would have give Amy all the trinket in Nice if she would have take them , but at the same time he felt that he could not change the opinion she be form of him , and he rather dread the keen blue eye that seem to watch him with such half-sorrowful , half-scornful surprise .
`` All the rest have go to Monaco for the day .
I prefer to stay at home and write letter .
They be do now , and I be go to Valrosa to sketch , will you come ? ''
say Amy , a she join Laurie one lovely day when he lounge in a usual , about noon .
`` Well , yes , but be n't it rather warm for such a long walk ? ''
he answer slowly , for the shaded salon look inviting after the glare without .
`` I 'm go to have the little carriage , and Baptiste can drive , so you 'll have nothing to do but hold your umbrella , and keep your glove nice , '' return Amy , with a sarcastic glance at the immaculate kid , which be a weak point with Laurie .
`` Then I 'll go with pleasure . ''
and he put out his hand for her sketchbook .
But she tuck it under her arm with a sharp ... `` Do n't trouble yourself .
It 's no exertion to me , but you do n't look equal to it . ''
Laurie lift his eyebrow and follow at a leisurely pace a she run downstairs , but when they get into the carriage he take the rein himself , and leave little Baptiste nothing to do but fold his arm and fall asleep on his perch .
The two never quarrel .
Amy be too well-bred , and just now Laurie be too lazy , so in a minute he peep under her hatbrim with an inquire air .
She answer him with a smile , and they go on together in the most amicable manner .
It be a lovely drive , along wind road rich in the picturesque scenes that delight beauty-loving eye .
Here an ancient monastery , whence the solemn chanting of the monk come down to them .
There a bare-legged shepherd , in wooden shoe , point hat , and rough jacket over one shoulder , sit pip on a stone while his goat skip among the rock or lay at his foot .
Meek , mouse-colored donkey , laden with pannier of freshly cut grass pass by , with a pretty girl in a capaline sit between the green pile , or an old woman spin with a distaff a she go .
Brown , soft-eyed child run out from the quaint stone hovel to offer nosegay , or bunch of orange still on the bough .
Gnarled olive tree cover the hill with their dusky foliage , fruit hung golden in the orchard , and great scarlet anemone fringe the roadside , while beyond green slope and craggy height , the Maritime Alps rise sharp and white against the blue Italian sky .
Valrosa well deserve it name , for in that climate of perpetual summer rose blossom everywhere .
They overhang the archway , thrust themselves between the bar of the great gate with a sweet welcome to passers-by , and line the avenue , wind through lemon tree and feathery palm up to the villa on the hill .
Every shadowy nook , where seat invite one to stop and rest , be a mass of bloom , every cool grotto have it marble nymph smile from a veil of flower and every fountain reflect crimson , white , or pale pink rose , lean down to smile at their own beauty .
Roses cover the wall of the house , drape the cornice , climb the pillar , and run riot over the balustrade of the wide terrace , whence one look down on the sunny Mediterranean , and the white-walled city on it shore .
`` This be a regular honeymoon paradise , be n't it ?
Did you ever see such rose ? ''
ask Amy , pause on the terrace to enjoy the view , and a luxurious whiff of perfume that come wander by .
`` No , nor felt such thorn , '' return Laurie , with his thumb in his mouth , after a vain attempt to capture a solitary scarlet flower that grow just beyond his reach .
`` Try low down , and pick those that have no thorn , '' say Amy , gather three of the tiny cream-colored one that star the wall behind her .
She put them in his buttonhole a a peace offering , and he stand a minute look down at them with a curious expression , for in the Italian part of his nature there be a touch of superstition , and he be just then in that state of half-sweet , half-bitter melancholy , when imaginative young men find significance in trifle and food for romance everywhere .
He have think of Jo in reach after the thorny red rise , for vivid flower become her , and she have often worn one like that from the greenhouse at home .
The pale rose Amy give him be the sort that the Italians lay in dead hand , never in bridal wreath , and for a moment he wonder if the omen be for Jo or for himself , but the next instant his American common sense get the good of sentimentality , and he laugh a hearty laugh than Amy have hear since he come .
`` It 's good advice , you 'd better take it and save your finger , '' she say , think her speech amuse him .
`` Thank you , I will , '' he answer in jest , and a few month later he do it in earnest .
`` Laurie , when be you go to your grandfather ? ''
she ask presently , a she settle herself on a rustic seat .
`` Very soon . ''
`` You have say that a dozen time within the last three week . ''
`` I dare say , short answer save trouble . ''
`` He expect you , and you really ought to go . ''
`` Hospitable creature !
I know it . ''
`` Then why do n't you do it ? ''
`` Natural depravity , I suppose . ''
`` Natural indolence , you mean .
It 's really dreadful ! ''
and Amy look severe .
`` Not so bad a it seem , for I should only plague him if I go , so I might as well stay and plague you a little long , you can bear it good , in fact I think it agree with you excellently , '' and Laurie compose himself for a lounge on the broad ledge of the balustrade .
Amy shake her head and open her sketchbook with an air of resignation , but she have make up her mind to lecture ` that boy ' and in a minute she begin again .
`` What be you do just now ? ''
`` Watching lizard . ''
`` No , no .
I mean what do you intend and wish to do ? ''
`` Smoke a cigarette , if you 'll allow me . ''
`` How provoking you be !
I do n't approve of cigar and I will only allow it on condition that you let me put you into my sketch .
I need a figure . ''
`` With all the pleasure in life .
How will you have me , full length or three-quarters , on my head or my heel ?
I should respectfully suggest a recumbent posture , then put yourself in also and call it ` Dolce far niente ' . ''
`` Stay a you be , and go to sleep if you like .
I intend to work hard , '' say Amy in her most energetic tone .
`` What delightful enthusiasm ! ''
and he lean against a tall urn with an air of entire satisfaction .
`` What would Jo say if she saw you now ? ''
ask Amy impatiently , hop to stir him up by the mention of her still more energetic sister 's name .
`` As usual , ` Go away , Teddy .
I 'm busy ! ' ''
He laugh a he speak , but the laugh be not natural , and a shade pass over his face , for the utterance of the familiar name touch the wound that be not heal yet .
Both tone and shadow struck Amy , for she have see and hear them before , and now she look up in time to catch a new expression on Laurie 's face -- a hard bitter look , full of pain , dissatisfaction , and regret .
It be go before she could study it and the listless expression back again .
She watch him for a moment with artistic pleasure , think how like an Italian he look , a he lay bask in the sun with uncovered head and eye full of southern dreaminess , for he seem to have forget her and fall into a reverie .
`` You look like the effigy of a young knight asleep on his tomb , '' she say , carefully trace the well-cut profile define against the dark stone .
`` Wish I be ! ''
`` That 's a foolish wish , unless you have spoil your life .
You be so changed , I sometimes think -- '' there Amy stop , with a half-timid , half-wistful look , more significant than her unfinished speech .
Laurie saw and understand the affectionate anxiety which she hesitate to express , and look straight into her eye , say , just a he use to say it to her mother , `` It 's all right , ma'am . ''
That satisfy her and set at rest the doubt that have begin to worry her lately .
It also touch her , and she show that it do , by the cordial tone in which she say ... `` I 'm glad of that !
I do n't think you 'd be a very bad boy , but I fancy you might have waste money at that wicked Baden-Baden , lose your heart to some charm Frenchwoman with a husband , or get into some of the scrape that young men seem to consider a necessary part of a foreign tour .
Do n't stay out there in the sun , come and lie on the grass here and ` let u be friendly ' , a Jo use to say when we get in the sofa corner and tell secret . ''
Laurie obediently throw himself down on the turf , and begin to amuse himself by stick daisy into the ribbon of Amy 's hat , that lay there .
`` I 'm all ready for the secret . ''
and he glance up with a decided expression of interest in his eye .
`` I 've none to tell .
You may begin . ''
`` Have n't one to bless myself with .
I think perhaps you 'd have some news from home .
. ''
`` You have hear all that have come lately .
Do n't you hear often ?
I fancy Jo would send you volume . ''
`` She 's very busy .
I 'm rove about so , it 's impossible to be regular , you know .
When do you begin your great work of art , Raphaella ? ''
he ask , change the subject abruptly after another pause , in which he have be wonder if Amy know his secret and want to talk about it .
`` Never , '' she answer , with a despondent but decide air .
`` Rome take all the vanity out of me , for after see the wonder there , I felt too insignificant to live and give up all my foolish hope in despair . ''
`` Why should you , with so much energy and talent ? ''
`` That 's just why , because talent be n't genius , and no amount of energy can make it so .
I want to be great , or nothing .
I wo n't be a common-place dauber , so I do n't intend to try any more . ''
`` And what be you go to do with yourself now , if I may ask ? ''
`` Polish up my other talent , and be an ornament to society , if I get the chance . ''
It be a characteristic speech , and sound daring , but audacity become young people , and Amy 's ambition have a good foundation .
Laurie smile , but he like the spirit with which she take up a new purpose when a long-cherished one die , and spend no time lament .
`` Good !
And here be where Fred Vaughn come in , I fancy . ''
Amy preserve a discreet silence , but there be a conscious look in her downcast face that make Laurie sit up and say gravely , `` Now I 'm go to play brother , and ask question .
May I ? ''
`` I do n't promise to answer . ''
`` Your face will , if your tongue wo n't .
You be n't woman of the world enough yet to hide your feeling , my dear .
I hear rumor about Fred and you last year , and it 's my private opinion that if he have not be call home so suddenly and detain so long , something would have come of it , hey ? ''
`` That 's not for me to say , '' be Amy 's grim reply , but her lip would smile , and there be a traitorous sparkle of the eye which betray that she know her power and enjoy the knowledge .
`` You be not engage , I hope ? ''
and Laurie look very elder-brotherly and grave all of a sudden .
`` No . ''
`` But you will be , if he come back and go properly down on his knee , wo n't you ? ''
`` Very likely . ''
`` Then you be fond of old Fred ? ''
`` I could be , if I try . ''
`` But you do n't intend to try till the proper moment ?
Bless my soul , what unearthly prudence !
He 's a good fellow , Amy , but not the man I fancy you 'd like . ''
`` He be rich , a gentleman , and have delightful manner , '' begin Amy , try to be quite cool and dignified , but feel a little ashamed of herself , in spite of the sincerity of her intention .
`` I understand .
Queens of society ca n't get on without money , so you mean to make a good match , and start in that way ?
Quite right and proper , a the world go , but it sound odd from the lip of one of your mother 's girl . ''
`` True , nevertheless . ''
A short speech , but the quiet decision with which it be utter contrast curiously with the young speaker .
Laurie felt this instinctively and lay himself down again , with a sense of disappointment which he could not explain .
His look and silence , as well a a certain inward self-disapproval , ruffle Amy , and make her resolve to deliver her lecture without delay .
`` I wish you 'd do me the favor to rouse yourself a little , '' she say sharply .
`` Do it for me , there 's a dear girl . ''
`` I could , if I try . ''
and she look a if she would like do it in the most summary style .
`` Try , then .
I give you leave , '' return Laurie , who enjoy have someone to tease , after his long abstinence from his favorite pastime .
`` You 'd be angry in five minute . ''
`` I 'm never angry with you .
It take two flint to make a fire .
You be a cool and soft a snow . ''
`` You do n't know what I can do .
Snow produce a glow and a tingle , if apply rightly .
Your indifference be half affectation , and a good stirring up would prove it . ''
`` Stir away , it wo n't hurt me and it may amuse you , a the big man say when his little wife beat him .
Regard me in the light of a husband or a carpet , and beat till you be tire , if that sort of exercise agree with you . ''
Being decidedly nettle herself , and long to see him shake off the apathy that so alter him , Amy sharpen both tongue and pencil , and begin .
`` Flo and I have get a new name for you .
It 's Lazy Laurence .
How do you like it ? ''
She think it would annoy him , but he only fold his arm under his head , with an imperturbable , `` That 's not bad .
Thank you , lady . ''
`` Do you want to know what I honestly think of you ? ''
`` Pining to be tell . ''
`` Well , I despise you . ''
If she have even say ' I hate you ' in a petulant or coquettish tone , he would have laugh and rather like it , but the grave , almost sad , accent in her voice make him open his eye , and ask quickly ... `` Why , if you please ? ''
`` Because , with every chance for be good , useful , and happy , you be faulty , lazy , and miserable . ''
`` Strong language , mademoiselle . ''
`` If you like it , I 'll go on . ''
`` Pray do , it 's quite interesting . ''
`` I think you 'd find it so .
Selfish people always like to talk about themselves . ''
`` Am I selfish ? ''
the question slip out involuntarily and in a tone of surprise , for the one virtue on which he pride himself be generosity .
`` Yes , very selfish , '' continue Amy , in a calm , cool voice , twice a effective just then a an angry one .
`` I 'll show you how , for I 've study you while we be frolic , and I 'm not at all satisfied with you .
Here you have be abroad nearly six month , and do nothing but waste time and money and disappoint your friend . ''
`` Is n't a fellow to have any pleasure after a four-year grind ? ''
`` You do n't look a if you 'd have much .
At any rate , you be none the good for it , as far a I can see .
I say when we first meet that you have improve .
Now I take it all back , for I do n't think you half so nice a when I leave you at home .
You have grow abominably lazy , you like gossip , and waste time on frivolous thing , you be content to be pet and admire by silly people , instead of be love and respect by wise one .
With money , talent , position , health , and beauty , ah you like that old Vanity !
But it 's the truth , so I ca n't help say it , with all these splendid thing to use and enjoy , you can find nothing to do but dawdle , and instead of be the man you ought to be , you be only ... '' there she stop , with a look that have both pain and pity in it .
`` Saint Laurence on a gridiron , '' add Laurie , blandly finish the sentence .
But the lecture begin to take effect , for there be a wide-awake sparkle in his eye now and a half-angry , half-injured expression replace the former indifference .
`` I suppose you 'd take it so .
You men tell u we be angels , and say we can make you what we will , but the instant we honestly try to do you good , you laugh at u and wo n't listen , which prove how much your flattery be worth . ''
Amy speak bitterly , and turn her back on the exasperate martyr at her foot .
In a minute a hand come down over the page , so that she could not draw , and Laurie 's voice say , with a droll imitation of a penitent child , `` I will be good , oh , I will be good ! ''
But Amy do not laugh , for she be in earnest , and tap on the outspread hand with her pencil , say soberly , `` Are n't you ashamed of a hand like that ?
It 's a soft and white a a woman 's , and look a if it never do anything but wear Jouvin 's best glove and pick flower for lady .
You be not a dandy , thank Heaven , so I 'm glad to see there be no diamond or big seal ring on it , only the little old one Jo give you so long ago .
Dear soul , I wish she be here to help me ! ''
`` So do I ! ''
The hand vanish as suddenly a it come , and there be energy enough in the echo of her wish to suit even Amy .
She glance down at him with a new thought in her mind , but he be lie with his hat half over his face , a if for shade , and his mustache hide his mouth .
She only saw his chest rise and fall , with a long breath that might have be a sigh , and the hand that wear the ring nestle down into the grass , a if to hide something too precious or too tender to be speak of .
All in a minute various hint and trifle assume shape and significance in Amy 's mind , and tell her what her sister never have confide to her .
She remember that Laurie never speak voluntarily of Jo , she recall the shadow on his face just now , the change in his character , and the wearing of the little old ring which be no ornament to a handsome hand .
Girls be quick to read such sign and feel their eloquence .
Amy have fancy that perhaps a love trouble be at the bottom of the alteration , and now she be sure of it .
Her keen eye fill , and when she speak again , it be in a voice that could be beautifully soft and kind when she choose to make it so .
`` I know I have no right to talk so to you , Laurie , and if you be n't the sweetest-tempered fellow in the world , you 'd be very angry with me .
But we be all so fond and proud of you , I could n't bear to think they should be disappoint in you at home a I have be , though , perhaps they would understand the change well than I do . ''
`` I think they would , '' come from under the hat , in a grim tone , quite as touch a a broken one .
`` They ought to have tell me , and not let me go blunder and scold , when I should have be more kind and patient than ever .
I never do like that Miss Randal and now I hate her ! ''
say artful Amy , wish to be sure of her fact this time .
`` Hang Miss Randal ! ''
and Laurie knock the hat off his face with a look that leave no doubt of his sentiment toward that young lady .
`` I beg pardon , I think ... '' and there she pause diplomatically .
`` No , you do n't , you know perfectly well I never care for anyone but Jo , '' Laurie say that in his old , impetuous tone , and turn his face away a he speak .
`` I do think so , but a they never say anything about it , and you come away , I suppose I be mistake .
And Jo would n't be kind to you ?
Why , I be sure she love you dearly . ''
`` She be kind , but not in the right way , and it 's lucky for her she do n't love me , if I 'm the good-for-nothing fellow you think me .
It 's her fault though , and you may tell her so . ''
The hard , bitter look come back again a he say that , and it trouble Amy , for she do not know what balm to apply .
`` I be wrong , I do n't know .
I 'm very sorry I be so cross , but I ca n't help wish you 'd bear it good , Teddy , dear . ''
`` Do n't , that 's her name for me ! ''
and Laurie put up his hand with a quick gesture to stop the word speak in Jo 's half-kind , half-reproachful tone .
`` Wait till you 've try it yourself , '' he add in a low voice , a he pull up the grass by the handful .
`` I 'd take it manfully , and be respect if I could n't be love , '' say Amy , with the decision of one who know nothing about it .
Now , Laurie flatter himself that he have bear it remarkably well , make no moan , ask no sympathy , and take his trouble away to live it down alone .
Amy 's lecture put the matter in a new light , and for the first time it do look weak and selfish to lose heart at the first failure , and shut himself up in moody indifference .
He felt a if suddenly shake out of a pensive dream and find it impossible to go to sleep again .
Presently he sit up and ask slowly , `` Do you think Jo would despise me a you do ? ''
`` Yes , if she saw you now .
She hat lazy people .
Why do n't you do something splendid , and make her love you ? ''
`` I do my best , but it be no use . ''
`` Graduating well , you mean ?
That be no more than you ought to have do , for your grandfather 's sake .
It would have be shameful to fail after spend so much time and money , when everyone know that you could do well . ''
`` I do fail , say what you will , for Jo would n't love me , '' begin Laurie , lean his head on his hand in a despondent attitude .
`` No , you do n't , and you 'll say so in the end , for it do you good , and prove that you could do something if you try .
If you 'd only set about another task of some sort , you 'd soon be your hearty , happy self again , and forget your trouble . ''
`` That 's impossible . ''
`` Try it and see .
You need n't shrug your shoulder , and think , ` Much she know about such thing ' .
I do n't pretend to be wise , but I be observe , and I see a great deal more than you 'd imagine .
I 'm interested in other people 's experience and inconsistency , and though I ca n't explain , I remember and use them for my own benefit .
Love Jo all your day , if you choose , but do n't let it spoil you , for it 's wicked to throw away so many good gift because you ca n't have the one you want .
There , I wo n't lecture any more , for I know you 'll wake up and be a man in spite of that hardhearted girl . ''
Neither spoke for several minute .
Laurie sit turn the little ring on his finger , and Amy put the last touch to the hasty sketch she have be work at while she talk .
Presently she put it on his knee , merely say , `` How do you like that ? ''
He look and then he smile , a he could not well help do , for it be capitally do , the long , lazy figure on the grass , with listless face , half-shut eye , and one hand hold a cigar , from which come the little wreath of smoke that encircle the dreamer 's head .
`` How well you draw ! ''
he say , with a genuine surprise and pleasure at her skill , add , with a half-laugh , `` Yes , that 's me . ''
`` As you be .
This be a you be . ''
and Amy lay another sketch beside the one he hold .
It be not nearly so well do , but there be a life and spirit in it which atone for many fault , and it recall the past so vividly that a sudden change sweep over the young man 's face a he look .
Only a rough sketch of Laurie tame a horse .
Hat and coat be off , and every line of the active figure , resolute face , and command attitude be full of energy and meaning .
The handsome brute , just subdue , stand arch his neck under the tightly draw rein , with one foot impatiently paw the ground , and ear prick up a if listen for the voice that have master him .
In the ruffled mane , the rider 's breezy hair and erect attitude , there be a suggestion of suddenly arrest motion , of strength , courage , and youthful buoyancy that contrast sharply with the supine grace of the ' Dolce far Niente ' sketch .
Laurie say nothing but a his eye go from one to the other , Amy saw him flush up and fold his lip together a if he read and accept the little lesson she have give him .
That satisfy her , and without wait for him to speak , she say , in her sprightly way ... `` Do n't you remember the day you play Rarey with Puck , and we all look on ?
Meg and Beth be frighten , but Jo clap and prance , and I sit on the fence and drew you .
I find that sketch in my portfolio the other day , touch it up , and keep it to show you . ''
`` Much oblige .
You 've improve immensely since then , and I congratulate you .
May I venture to suggest in ' a honeymoon paradise ' that five o'clock be the dinner hour at your hotel ? ''
Laurie rise a he speak , return the picture with a smile and a bow and look at his watch , a if to remind her that even moral lecture should have an end .
He try to resume his former easy , indifferent air , but it be an affectation now , for the rousing have be more effacious than he would confess .
Amy felt the shade of coldness in his manner , and say to herself ... `` Now , I 've offend him .
Well , if it do him good , I 'm glad , if it make him hate me , I 'm sorry , but it 's true , and I ca n't take back a word of it . ''
They laugh and chat all the way home , and little Baptiste , up behind , think that monsieur and madamoiselle be in charm spirit .
But both felt ill at ease .
The friendly frankness be disturb , the sunshine have a shadow over it , and despite their apparent gaiety , there be a secret discontent in the heart of each .
`` Shall we see you this evening , mon frere ? ''
ask Amy , a they part at her aunt 's door .
`` Unfortunately I have an engagement .
Au revoir , madamoiselle , '' and Laurie bent a if to kiss her hand , in the foreign fashion , which become him good than many men .
Something in his face make Amy say quickly and warmly ... `` No , be yourself with me , Laurie , and part in the good old way .
I 'd rather have a hearty English handshake than all the sentimental salutation in France . ''
`` Goodbye , dear , '' and with these word , utter in the tone she like , Laurie leave her , after a handshake almost painful in it heartiness .
Next morning , instead of the usual call , Amy receive a note which make her smile at the beginning and sigh at the end .
My Dear Mentor , Please make my adieu to your aunt , and exult within yourself , for ` Lazy Laurence ' have go to his grandpa , like the best of boy .
A pleasant winter to you , and may the god grant you a blissful honeymoon at Valrosa !
I think Fred would be benefit by a rouser .
Tell him so , with my congratulation .
Yours gratefully , Telemachus `` Good boy !
I 'm glad he 's go , '' say Amy , with an approve smile .
The next minute her face fell a she glance about the empty room , add , with an involuntary sigh , `` Yes , I be glad , but how I shall miss him . ''
CHAPTER FORTY THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW When the first bitterness be over , the family accept the inevitable , and try to bear it cheerfully , help one another by the increase affection which come to bind household tenderly together in time of trouble .
They put away their grief , and each do his or her part toward make that last year a happy one .
The pleasant room in the house be set apart for Beth , and in it be gather everything that she most love , flower , picture , her piano , the little worktable , and the beloved pussy .
Father 's best book find their way there , Mother 's easy chair , Jo 's desk , Amy 's fine sketch , and every day Meg bring her baby on a loving pilgrimage , to make sunshine for Aunty Beth .
John quietly set apart a little sum , that he might enjoy the pleasure of keep the invalid supply with the fruit she love and long for .
Old Hannah never weary of concoct dainty dish to tempt a capricious appetite , drop tear a she work , and from across the sea come little gift and cheerful letter , seem to bring breath of warmth and fragrance from land that know no winter .
Here , cherish like a household saint in it shrine , sit Beth , tranquil and busy a ever , for nothing could change the sweet , unselfish nature , and even while prepare to leave life , she try to make it happy for those who should remain behind .
The feeble finger be never idle , and one of her pleasure be to make little thing for the school child daily pass to and fro , to drop a pair of mitten from her window for a pair of purple hand , a needlebook for some small mother of many doll , penwipers for young penman toil through forest of pothook , scrapbook for picture-loving eye , and all manner of pleasant device , till the reluctant climber of the ladder of learn find their way strewn with flower , a it be , and come to regard the gentle giver a a sort of fairy godmother , who sit above there , and shower down gift miraculously suit to their taste and need .
If Beth have want any reward , she find it in the bright little face always turn up to her window , with nod and smile , and the droll little letter which come to her , full of blot and gratitude .
The first few month be very happy one , and Beth often use to look round , and say `` How beautiful this be ! ''
a they all sit together in her sunny room , the baby kick and crow on the floor , mother and sister work near , and father reading , in his pleasant voice , from the wise old book which seem rich in good and comfortable word , a applicable now a when write century ago , a little chapel , where a paternal priest teach his flock the hard lesson all must learn , try to show them that hope can comfort love , and faith make resignation possible .
Simple sermon , that go straight to the soul of those who listen , for the father 's heart be in the minister 's religion , and the frequent falter in the voice give a double eloquence to the word he speak or read .
It be well for all that this peaceful time be give them a preparation for the sad hour to come , for by-and-by , Beth say the needle be ` so heavy ' , and put it down forever .
Talking weary her , face troubled her , pain claim her for it own , and her tranquil spirit be sorrowfully perturb by the ill that vex her feeble flesh .
Ah me !
Such heavy day , such long , long night , such ache heart and implore prayer , when those who love her best be force to see the thin hand stretch out to them beseechingly , to hear the bitter cry , `` Help me , help me ! ''
and to feel that there be no help .
A sad eclipse of the serene soul , a sharp struggle of the young life with death , but both be mercifully brief , and then the natural rebellion over , the old peace return more beautiful than ever .
With the wreck of her frail body , Beth 's soul grow strong , and though she say little , those about her felt that she be ready , saw that the first pilgrim call be likewise the fit , and wait with her on the shore , try to see the Shining Ones come to receive her when she cross the river .
Jo never leave her for an hour since Beth have say `` I feel stronger when you be here . ''
She sleep on a couch in the room , wake often to renew the fire , to fee , lift , or wait upon the patient creature who seldom ask for anything , and ` try not to be a trouble ' .
All day she haunt the room , jealous of any other nurse , and prouder of be choose then than of any honor her life ever bring her .
Precious and helpful hour to Jo , for now her heart receive the teaching that it need .
Lessons in patience be so sweetly teach her that she could not fail to learn them , charity for all , the lovely spirit that can forgive and truly forget unkindness , the loyalty to duty that make the hard easy , and the sincere faith that fear nothing , but trust undoubtingly .
Often when she wake Jo find Beth reading in her well-worn little book , hear her sing softly , to beguile the sleepless night , or saw her lean her face upon her hand , while slow tear drop through the transparent finger , and Jo would lie watch her with thought too deep for tear , feel that Beth , in her simple , unselfish way , be try to wean herself from the dear old life , and fit herself for the life to come , by sacred word of comfort , quiet prayer , and the music she love so well .
Seeing this do more for Jo than the wise sermon , the saintliest hymn , the most fervent prayer that any voice could utter .
For with eye make clear by many tear , and a heart soften by the tenderest sorrow , she recognize the beauty of her sister 's life -- uneventful , unambitious , yet full of the genuine virtue which ` smell sweet , and blossom in the dust ' , the self-forgetfulness that make the humblest on earth remember soonest in heaven , the true success which be possible to all .
One night when Beth look among the book upon her table , to find something to make her forget the mortal weariness that be almost as hard to bear a pain , a she turn the leaf of her old favorite , Pilgrims 's Progress , she find a little paper , scribble over in Jo 's hand .
The name catch her eye and the blurred look of the line make her sure that tear have fall on it .
`` Poor Jo !
She 's fast asleep , so I wo n't wake her to ask leave .
She show me all her thing , and I do n't think she 'll mind if I look at this '' , think Beth , with a glance at her sister , who lay on the rug , with the tongs beside her , ready to wake up the minute the log fell apart .
MY BETH Sitting patient in the shadow Till the blessed light shall come , A serene and saintly presence Sanctifies our troubled home .
Earthly joy and hope and sorrow Break like ripple on the strand Of the deep and solemn river Where her willing foot now stand .
O my sister , pass from me , Out of human care and strife , Leave me , a a gift , those virtue Which have beautify your life .
Dear , bequeath me that great patience Which have power to sustain A cheerful , uncomplaining spirit In it prison-house of pain .
Give me , for I need it sorely , Of that courage , wise and sweet , Which have make the path of duty Green beneath your willing foot .
Give me that unselfish nature , That with charity devine Can pardon wrong for love 's dear sake -- Meek heart , forgive me mine !
Thus our part daily loseth Something of it bitter pain , And while learn this hard lesson , My great loss becomes my gain .
For the touch of grief will render My wild nature more serene , Give to life new aspiration , A new trust in the unseen .
Henceforth , safe across the river , I shall see forever more A beloved , household spirit Waiting for me on the shore .
Hope and faith , born of my sorrow , Guardian angel shall become , And the sister go before me By their hand shall lead me home .
Blurred and blot , faulty and feeble a the line be , they bring a look of inexpressible comfort to Beth 's face , for her one regret have be that she have do so little , and this seem to assure her that her life have not be useless , that her death would not bring the despair she fear .
As she sit with the paper fold between her hand , the charred log fell asunder .
Jo start up , revive the blaze , and crept to the bedside , hop Beth slept .
`` Not asleep , but so happy , dear .
See , I find this and read it .
I know you would n't care .
Have I be all that to you , Jo ? ''
she ask , with wistful , humble earnestness . ''
Oh , Beth , so much , so much ! ''
and Jo 's head go down upon the pillow beside her sister 's .
`` Then I do n't feel a if I 'd waste my life .
I 'm not so good a you make me , but I have try to do right .
And now , when it 's too late to begin even to do good , it 's such a comfort to know that someone love me so much , and feel a if I 'd help them . ''
`` More than any one in the world , Beth .
I use to think I could n't let you go , but I 'm learn to feel that I do n't lose you , that you 'll be more to me than ever , and death ca n't part u , though it seem to . ''
`` I know it can not , and I do n't fear it any longer , for I 'm sure I shall be your Beth still , to love and help you more than ever .
You must take my place , Jo , and be everything to Father and Mother when I 'm go .
They will turn to you , do n't fail them , and if it 's hard to work alone , remember that I do n't forget you , and that you 'll be happier in do that than write splendid book or see all the world , for love be the only thing that we can carry with u when we go , and it make the end so easy . ''
`` I 'll try , Beth . ''
and then and there Jo renounce her old ambition , pledge herself to a new and good one , acknowledge the poverty of other desire , and feel the blessed solace of a belief in the immortality of love .
So the spring day come and go , the sky grow clear , the earth greener , the flower be up fairly early , and the bird come back in time to say goodbye to Beth , who , like a tired but trustful child , clung to the hand that have lead her all her life , a Father and Mother guide her tenderly through the Valley of the Shadow , and give her up to God .
Seldom except in book do the die utter memorable word , see vision , or depart with beatified countenance , and those who have speed many part soul know that to most the end come a naturally and simply a sleep .
As Beth have hop , the ` tide go out easily ' , and in the dark hour before dawn , on the bosom where she have draw her first breath , she quietly draw her last , with no farewell but one loving look , one little sigh .
With tear and prayer and tender hand , Mother and sister make her ready for the long sleep that pain would never mar again , see with grateful eye the beautiful serenity that soon replace the pathetic patience that have wring their heart so long , and feel with reverent joy that to their darling death be a benignant angel , not a phantom full of dread .
When morning come , for the first time in many month the fire be out , Jo 's place be empty , and the room be very still .
But a bird sang blithely on a budding bough , close by , the snowdrop blossom freshly at the window , and the spring sunshine stream in like a benediction over the placid face upon the pillow , a face so full of painless peace that those who love it best smile through their tear , and thank God that Beth be well at last .
CHAPTER FORTY-ONE LEARNING TO FORGET Amy 's lecture do Laurie good , though , of course , he do not own it till long afterward .
Men seldom do , for when woman be the adviser , the lord of creation do n't take the advice till they have persuade themselves that it be just what they intend to do .
Then they act upon it , and , if it succeed , they give the weak vessel half the credit of it .
If it fail , they generously give her the whole .
Laurie go back to his grandfather , and be so dutifully devote for several week that the old gentleman declare the climate of Nice have improve him wonderfully , and he have well try it again .
There be nothing the young gentleman would have like well , but elephant could not have drag him back after the scolding he have receive .
Pride forbid , and whenever the longing grow very strong , he fortify his resolution by repeat the word that have make the deep impression -- `` I despise you . ''
`` Go and do something splendid that will make her love you . ''
Laurie turn the matter over in his mind so often that he soon bring himself to confess that he have be selfish and lazy , but then when a man have a great sorrow , he should be indulge in all sort of vagary till he have live it down .
He felt that his blighted affection be quite dead now , and though he should never cease to be a faithful mourner , there be no occasion to wear his weed ostentatiously .
Jo would n't love him , but he might make her respect and admire him by do something which should prove that a girl 's ` No ' have not spoil his life .
He have always mean to do something , and Amy 's advice be quite unnecessary .
He have only be wait till the aforesaid blight affection be decently inter .
That be do , he felt that he be ready to ` hide his stricken heart , and still toil on ' .
As Goethe , when he have a joy or a grief , put it into a song , so Laurie resolve to embalm his love sorrow in music , and to compose a Requiem which should harrow up Jo 's soul and melt the heart of every hearer .
Therefore the next time the old gentleman find him get restless and moody and order him off , he go to Vienna , where he have musical friend , and fell to work with the firm determination to distinguish himself .
But whether the sorrow be too vast to be embody in music , or music too ethereal to uplift a mortal woe , he soon discover that the Requiem be beyond him just at present .
It be evident that his mind be not in work order yet , and his idea need clarifying , for often in the middle of a plaintive strain , he would find himself hum a dancing tune that vividly recall the Christmas ball at Nice , especially the stout Frenchman , and put an effectual stop to tragic composition for the time be .
Then he try an opera , for nothing seem impossible in the beginning , but here again unforeseen difficulty beset him .
He want Jo for his heroine , and call upon his memory to supply him with tender recollection and romantic vision of his love .
But memory turn traitor , and a if possess by the perverse spirit of the girl , would only recall Jo 's oddity , fault , and freak , would only show her in the most unsentimental aspect -- beat mat with her head tie up in a bandanna , barricade herself with the sofa pillow , or throw cold water over his passion a la Gummidge -- and an irresistable laugh spoil the pensive picture he be endeavor to paint .
Jo would n't be put into the opera at any price , and he have to give her up with a `` Bless that girl , what a torment she be ! ''
and a clutch at his hair , a become a distract composer .
When he look about him for another and a less intractable damsel to immortalize in melody , memory produce one with the most obliging readiness .
This phantom wear many face , but it always have golden hair , be envelop in a diaphanous cloud , and float airily before his mind 's eye in a pleasing chaos of rose , peacock , white pony , and blue ribbon .
He do not give the complacent wraith any name , but he take her for his heroine and grow quite fond of her , as well he might , for he gift her with every gift and grace under the sun , and escort her , unscathed , through trial which would have annihilate any mortal woman .
Thanks to this inspiration , he get on swimmingly for a time , but gradually the work lose it charm , and he forget to compose , while he sit muse , pen in hand , or roam about the gay city to get some new idea and refresh his mind , which seem to be in a somewhat unsettled state that winter .
He do not do much , but he think a great deal and be conscious of a change of some sort go on in spite of himself .
`` It 's genius simmering , perhaps .
I 'll let it simmer , and see what come of it , '' he say , with a secret suspicion all the while that it be n't genius , but something far more common .
Whatever it be , it simmer to some purpose , for he grow more and more discontented with his desultory life , begin to long for some real and earnest work to go at , soul and body , and finally come to the wise conclusion that everyone who love music be not a composer .
Returning from one of Mozart 's grand opera , splendidly perform at the Royal Theatre , he look over his own , play a few of the best part , sit star at the bust of Mendelssohn , Beethoven , and Bach , who star benignly back again .
Then suddenly he tear up his music sheet , one by one , and a the last flutter out of his hand , he say soberly to himself ... `` She be right !
Talent be n't genius , and you ca n't make it so .
That music have take the vanity out of me a Rome take it out of her , and I wo n't be a humbug any long .
Now what shall I do ? ''
That seem a hard question to answer , and Laurie begin to wish he have to work for his daily bread .
Now if ever , occur an eligible opportunity for ` go to the devil ' , a he once forcibly express it , for he have plenty of money and nothing to do , and Satan be proverbially fond of provide employment for full and idle hand .
The poor fellow have temptation enough from without and from within , but he withstand them pretty well , for much a he value liberty , he value good faith and confidence more , so his promise to his grandfather , and his desire to be able to look honestly into the eye of the woman who love him , and say `` All 's well , '' keep him safe and steady .
Very likely some Mrs. Grundy will observe , `` I do n't believe it , boys will be boy , young men must sow their wild oat , and woman must not expect miracle . ''
I dare say you do n't , Mrs. Grundy , but it 's true nevertheless .
Women work a good many miracle , and I have a persuasion that they may perform even that of raise the standard of manhood by refuse to echo such saying .
Let the boy be boys , the long the good , and let the young men sow their wild oat if they must .
But mother , sister , and friend may help to make the crop a small one , and keep many tare from spoil the harvest , by believe , and show that they believe , in the possibility of loyalty to the virtue which make men manly in good woman 's eye .
If it be a feminine delusion , leave u to enjoy it while we may , for without it half the beauty and the romance of life be lose , and sorrowful foreboding would embitter all our hope of the brave , tenderhearted little lad , who still love their mother well than themselves and be not ashamed to own it .
Laurie think that the task of forget his love for Jo would absorb all his power for year , but to his great surprise he discover it grow easy every day .
He refuse to believe it at first , get angry with himself , and could n't understand it , but these heart of ours be curious and contrary thing , and time and nature work their will in spite of u .
Laurie 's heart would n't ache .
The wound persist in heal with a rapidity that astonish him , and instead of try to forget , he find himself try to remember .
He have not foreseen this turn of affair , and be not prepared for it .
He be disgust with himself , surprise at his own fickleness , and full of a queer mixture of disappointment and relief that he could recover from such a tremendous blow so soon .
He carefully stir up the ember of his lose love , but they refuse to burst into a blaze .
There be only a comfortable glow that warm and do him good without put him into a fever , and he be reluctantly oblige to confess that the boyish passion be slowly subside into a more tranquil sentiment , very tender , a little sad and resentful still , but that be sure to pass away in time , leave a brotherly affection which would last unbroken to the end .
As the word ` brotherly ' pass through his mind in one of his revery , he smile , and glance up at the picture of Mozart that be before him ... `` Well , he be a great man , and when he could n't have one sister he take the other , and be happy . ''
Laurie do not utter the word , but he think them , and the next instant kiss the little old ring , say to himself , `` No , I wo n't !
I have n't forget , I never can .
I 'll try again , and if that fail , why then ... '' Leaving his sentence unfinished , he seize pen and paper and write to Jo , tell her that he could not settle to anything while there be the least hope of her change her mind .
Could n't she , would n't she -- and let him come home and be happy ?
While wait for an answer he do nothing , but he do it energetically , for he be in a fever of impatience .
It come at last , and settle his mind effectually on one point , for Jo decidedly could n't and would n't .
She be wrap up in Beth , and never wish to hear the word love again .
Then she beg him to be happy with somebody else , but always keep a little corner of his heart for his loving sister Jo .
In a postscript she desire him not to tell Amy that Beth be bad , she be come home in the spring and there be no need of sadden the remainder of her stay .
That would be time enough , please God , but Laurie must write to her often , and not let her feel lonely , homesick or anxious .
`` So I will , at once .
Poor little girl , it will be a sad go home for her , I 'm afraid , '' and Laurie open his desk , a if writing to Amy have be the proper conclusion of the sentence leave unfinished some week before .
But he do not write the letter that day , for a he rummage out his best paper , he come across something which change his purpose .
Tumbling about in one part of the desk among bill , passport , and business document of various kind be several of Jo 's letter , and in another compartment be three note from Amy , carefully tie up with one of her blue ribbon and sweetly suggestive of the little dead rose put away inside .
With a half-repentant , half-amused expression , Laurie gather up all Jo 's letter , smooth , fold , and put them neatly into a small drawer of the desk , stand a minute turn the ring thoughtfully on his finger , then slowly draw it off , lay it with the letter , lock the drawer , and go out to hear High Mass at Saint Stefan 's , feeling a if there have be a funeral , and though not overwhelm with affliction , this seem a more proper way to spend the rest of the day than in write letter to charm young lady .
The letter go very soon , however , and be promptly answer , for Amy be homesick , and confess it in the most delightfully confide manner .
The correspondence flourish famously , and letter fly to and fro with unfailing regularity all through the early spring .
Laurie sell his bust , make allumettes of his opera , and go back to Paris , hop somebody would arrive before long .
He want desperately to go to Nice , but would not till he be ask , and Amy would not ask him , for just then she be have little experience of her own , which make her rather wish to avoid the quizzical eye of ` our boy ' .
Fred Vaughn have return , and put the question to which she have once decide to answer , `` Yes , thank you , '' but now she say , `` No , thank you , '' kindly but steadily , for when the time come , her courage fail her , and she find that something more than money and position be need to satisfy the new longing that fill her heart so full of tender hope and fear .
The word , `` Fred be a good fellow , but not at all the man I fancy you would ever like , '' and Laurie 's face when he utter them , keep return to her as pertinaciously a her own do when she say in look , if not in word , `` I shall marry for money . ''
It trouble her to remember that now , she wish she could take it back , it sound so unwomanly .
She do n't want Laurie to think her a heartless , worldly creature .
She do n't care to be a queen of society now half so much a she do to be a lovable woman .
She be so glad he do n't hate her for the dreadful thing she say , but take them so beautifully and be kind than ever .
His letter be such a comfort , for the home letter be very irregular and not half so satisfactory a his when they do come .
It be not only a pleasure , but a duty to answer them , for the poor fellow be forlorn , and need petting , since Jo persist in be stonyhearted .
She ought to have make an effort and try to love him .
It could n't be very hard , many people would be proud and glad to have such a dear boy care for them .
But Jo never would act like other girl , so there be nothing to do but be very kind and treat him like a brother .
If all brother be treat as well a Laurie be at this period , they would be a much happy race of being than they be .
Amy never lecture now .
She ask his opinion on all subject , she be interested in everything he do , make charm little present for him , and send him two letter a week , full of lively gossip , sisterly confidence , and captivate sketch of the lovely scene about her .
As few brother be compliment by have their letter carry about in their sister 's pocket , read and reread diligently , cry over when short , kiss when long , and treasure carefully , we will not hint that Amy do any of these fond and foolish thing .
But she certainly do grow a little pale and pensive that spring , lose much of her relish for society , and go out sketch alone a good deal .
She never have much to show when she come home , but be study nature , I dare say , while she sit for hour , with her hand fold , on the terrace at Valrosa , or absently sketch any fancy that occur to her , a stalwart knight carve on a tomb , a young man asleep in the grass , with his hat over his eye , or a curly haired girl in gorgeous array , promenade down a ballroom on the arm of a tall gentleman , both face be leave a blur accord to the last fashion in art , which be safe but not altogether satisfactory .
Her aunt think that she regret her answer to Fred , and find denial useless and explanation impossible , Amy leave her to think what she like , take care that Laurie should know that Fred have go to Egypt .
That be all , but he understand it , and look relieve , a he say to himself , with a venerable air ... `` I be sure she would think good of it .
Poor old fellow !
I 've be through it all , and I can sympathize . ''
With that he heave a great sigh , and then , a if he have discharge his duty to the past , put his foot up on the sofa and enjoy Amy 's letter luxuriously .
While these change be go on abroad , trouble have come at home .
But the letter tell that Beth be fail never reach Amy , and when the next find her at Vevay , for the heat have drive them from Nice in May , and they have travel slowly to Switzerland , by way of Genoa and the Italian lake .
She bore it very well , and quietly submit to the family decree that she should not shorten her visit , for since it be too late to say goodbye to Beth , she have well stay , and let absence soften her sorrow .
But her heart be very heavy , she long to be at home , and every day look wistfully across the lake , wait for Laurie to come and comfort her .
He do come very soon , for the same mail bring letter to them both , but he be in Germany , and it take some day to reach him .
The moment he read it , he pack his knapsack , bid adieu to his fellow pedestrian , and be off to keep his promise , with a heart full of joy and sorrow , hope and suspense .
He know Vevay well , and as soon a the boat touch the little quay , he hurry along the shore to La Tour , where the Carrols be live en pension .
The garcon be in despair that the whole family have go to take a promenade on the lake , but no , the blonde mademoiselle might be in the chateau garden .
If monsieur would give himself the pain of sit down , a flash of time should present her .
But monsieur could not wait even a ` flash of time ' , and in the middle of the speech depart to find mademoiselle himself .
A pleasant old garden on the border of the lovely lake , with chestnut rustle overhead , ivy climb everywhere , and the black shadow of the tower fall far across the sunny water .
At one corner of the wide , low wall be a seat , and here Amy often come to read or work , or console herself with the beauty all about her .
She be sit here that day , lean her head on her hand , with a homesick heart and heavy eye , thinking of Beth and wonder why Laurie do not come .
She do not hear him cross the courtyard beyond , nor see him pause in the archway that lead from the subterranean path into the garden .
He stand a minute look at her with new eye , see what no one have ever see before , the tender side of Amy 's character .
Everything about her mutely suggest love and sorrow , the blotted letter in her lap , the black ribbon that tie up her hair , the womanly pain and patience in her face , even the little ebony cross at her throat seem pathetic to Laurie , for he have give it to her , and she wear it a her only ornament .
If he have any doubt about the reception she would give him , they be set at rest the minute she look up and saw him , for drop everything , she run to him , exclaim in a tone of unmistakable love and longing ... `` Oh , Laurie , Laurie , I know you 'd come to me ! ''
I think everything be say and settle then , for a they stand together quite silent for a moment , with the dark head bend down protectingly over the light one , Amy felt that no one could comfort and sustain her so well a Laurie , and Laurie decide that Amy be the only woman in the world who could fill Jo 's place and make him happy .
He do not tell her so , but she be not disappointed , for both felt the truth , be satisfy , and gladly leave the rest to silence .
In a minute Amy go back to her place , and while she dry her tear , Laurie gather up the scattered paper , find in the sight of sundry well-worn letter and suggestive sketch good omen for the future .
As he sit down beside her , Amy felt shy again , and turn rosy red at the recollection of her impulsive greeting .
`` I could n't help it , I felt so lonely and sad , and be so very glad to see you .
It be such a surprise to look up and find you , just a I be begin to fear you would n't come , '' she say , try in vain to speak quite naturally .
`` I come the minute I hear .
I wish I could say something to comfort you for the loss of dear little Beth , but I can only feel , and ... '' He could not get any further , for he too turn bashful all of a sudden , and do not quite know what to say .
He long to lay Amy 's head down on his shoulder , and tell her to have a good cry , but he do not dare , so take her hand instead , and give it a sympathetic squeeze that be good than word .
`` You need n't say anything , this comfort me , '' she say softly .
`` Beth be well and happy , and I must n't wish her back , but I dread the go home , much a I long to see them all .
We wo n't talk about it now , for it make me cry , and I want to enjoy you while you stay .
You need n't go right back , need you ? ''
`` Not if you want me , dear . ''
`` I do , so much .
Aunt and Flo be very kind , but you seem like one of the family , and it would be so comfortable to have you for a little while . ''
Amy speak and look so like a homesick child whose heart be full that Laurie forget his bashfulness all at once , and give her just what she want -- the petting she be use to and the cheerful conversation she need .
`` Poor little soul , you look a if you 'd grieve yourself half sick !
I 'm go to take care of you , so do n't cry any more , but come and walk about with me , the wind be too chilly for you to sit still , '' he say , in the half-caressing , half-commanding way that Amy like , a he tie on her hat , draw her arm through his , and begin to pace up and down the sunny walk under the new-leaved chestnut .
He felt more at ease upon his leg , and Amy find it pleasant to have a strong arm to lean upon , a familiar face to smile at her , and a kind voice to talk delightfully for her alone .
The quaint old garden have shelter many pair of lover , and seem expressly make for them , so sunny and seclude be it , with nothing but the tower to overlook them , and the wide lake to carry away the echo of their word , a it ripple by below .
For an hour this new pair walk and talk , or rest on the wall , enjoy the sweet influence which give such a charm to time and place , and when an unromantic dinner bell warn them away , Amy felt a if she leave her burden of loneliness and sorrow behind her in the chateau garden .
The moment Mrs. Carrol saw the girl 's altered face , she be illuminate with a new idea , and exclaim to herself , `` Now I understand it all -- the child have be pin for young Laurence .
Bless my heart , I never think of such a thing ! ''
With praiseworthy discretion , the good lady say nothing , and betray no sign of enlightenment , but cordially urge Laurie to stay and beg Amy to enjoy his society , for it would do her more good than so much solitude .
Amy be a model of docility , and a her aunt be a good deal occupy with Flo , she be leave to entertain her friend , and do it with more than her usual success .
At Nice , Laurie have lounge and Amy have scold .
At Vevay , Laurie be never idle , but always walking , rid , boating , or study in the most energetic manner , while Amy admire everything he do and follow his example a far and as fast a she could .
He say the change be owe to the climate , and she do not contradict him , be glad of a like excuse for her own recovered health and spirit .
The invigorate air do them both good , and much exercise work wholesome change in mind as well a body .
They seem to get clear view of life and duty up there among the everlasting hill .
The fresh wind blow away despond doubt , delusive fancy , and moody mist .
The warm spring sunshine bring out all sort of aspire idea , tender hope , and happy thought .
The lake seem to wash away the trouble of the past , and the grand old mountain to look benignly down upon them say , `` Little child , love one another . ''
In spite of the new sorrow , it be a very happy time , so happy that Laurie could not bear to disturb it by a word .
It take him a little while to recover from his surprise at the cure of his first , and a he have firmly believe , his last and only love .
He console himself for the seem disloyalty by the thought that Jo 's sister be almost the same a Jo 's self , and the conviction that it would have be impossible to love any other woman but Amy so soon and so well .
His first wooing have be of the tempestuous order , and he look back upon it a if through a long vista of year with a feeling of compassion blend with regret .
He be not ashamed of it , but put it away a one of the bitter-sweet experience of his life , for which he could be grateful when the pain be over .
His second wooing , he resolve , should be a calm and simple a possible .
There be no need of have a scene , hardly any need of tell Amy that he love her , she know it without word and have give him his answer long ago .
It all come about so naturally that no one could complain , and he know that everybody would be please , even Jo .
But when our first little passion have be crush , we be apt to be wary and slow in make a second trial , so Laurie let the day pas , enjoy every hour , and leave to chance the utterance of the word that would put an end to the first and sweet part of his new romance .
He have rather imagine that the denoument would take place in the chateau garden by moonlight , and in the most graceful and decorous manner , but it turn out exactly the reverse , for the matter be settle on the lake at noonday in a few blunt word .
They have be float about all the morning , from gloomy St. Gingolf to sunny Montreux , with the Alps of Savoy on one side , Mont St. Bernard and the Dent du Midi on the other , pretty Vevay in the valley , and Lausanne upon the hill beyond , a cloudless blue sky overhead , and the bluer lake below , dot with the picturesque boat that look like white-winged gull .
They have be talk of Bonnivard , a they glide past Chillon , and of Rousseau , a they look up at Clarens , where he write his Heloise .
Neither have read it , but they know it be a love story , and each privately wonder if it be half as interesting a their own .
Amy have be dabble her hand in the water during the little pause that fell between them , and when she look up , Laurie be lean on his oar with an expression in his eye that make her say hastily , merely for the sake of say something ... `` You must be tire .
Rest a little , and let me row .
It will do me good , for since you come I have be altogether lazy and luxurious . ''
`` I 'm not tire , but you may take an oar , if you like .
There 's room enough , though I have to sit nearly in the middle , else the boat wo n't trim , '' return Laurie , a if he rather like the arrangement .
Feeling that she have not mend matter much , Amy take the offered third of a seat , shake her hair over her face , and accept an oar .
She row as well a she do many other thing , and though she use both hand , and Laurie but one , the oar keep time , and the boat go smoothly through the water .
`` How well we pull together , do n't we ? ''
say Amy , who object to silence just then .
`` So well that I wish we might always pull in the same boat .
Will you , Amy ? ''
very tenderly .
`` Yes , Laurie , '' very low .
Then they both stop rowing , and unconsciously add a pretty little tableau of human love and happiness to the dissolve view reflect in the lake .
CHAPTER FORTY-TWO ALL ALONE It be easy to promise self-abnegation when self be wrap up in another , and heart and soul be purify by a sweet example .
But when the helpful voice be silent , the daily lesson over , the beloved presence go , and nothing remain but loneliness and grief , then Jo find her promise very hard to keep .
How could she ` comfort Father and Mother ' when her own heart ache with a ceaseless longing for her sister , how could she ` make the house cheerful ' when all it light and warmth and beauty seem to have desert it when Beth leave the old home for the new , and where in all the world could she ` find some useful , happy work to do ' , that would take the place of the loving service which have be it own reward ?
She try in a blind , hopeless way to do her duty , secretly rebel against it all the while , for it seem unjust that her few joy should be lessen , her burden make heavy , and life get hard and harder a she toil along .
Some people seem to get all sunshine , and some all shadow .
It be not fair , for she try more than Amy to be good , but never get any reward , only disappointment , trouble and hard work .
Poor Jo , these be dark day to her , for something like despair come over her when she think of spend all her life in that quiet house , devote to humdrum care , a few small pleasure , and the duty that never seem to grow any easy .
`` I ca n't do it .
I be n't mean for a life like this , and I know I shall break away and do something desperate if somebody do n't come and help me , '' she say to herself , when her first effort fail and she fell into the moody , miserable state of mind which often come when strong will have to yield to the inevitable .
But someone do come and help her , though Jo do not recognize her good angel at once because they wear familiar shape and use the simple spell best fit to poor humanity .
Often she start up at night , think Beth call her , and when the sight of the little empty bed make her cry with the bitter cry of unsubmissive sorrow , `` Oh , Beth , come back !
Come back ! ''
she do not stretch out her yearning arm in vain .
For , a quick to hear her sobbing a she have be to hear her sister 's faint whisper , her mother come to comfort her , not with word only , but the patient tenderness that soothe by a touch , tear that be mute reminder of a great grief than Jo 's , and broken whisper , more eloquent than prayer , because hopeful resignation go hand-in-hand with natural sorrow .
Sacred moment , when heart talk to heart in the silence of the night , turn affliction to a blessing , which chasten grief and strengthned love .
Feeling this , Jo 's burden seem easy to bear , duty grow sweeter , and life look more endurable , see from the safe shelter of her mother 's arm .
When ache heart be a little comforted , troubled mind likewise find help , for one day she go to the study , and lean over the good gray head lift to welcome her with a tranquil smile , she say very humbly , `` Father , talk to me a you do to Beth .
I need it more than she do , for I 'm all wrong . ''
`` My dear , nothing can comfort me like this , '' he answer , with a falter in his voice , and both arm round her , a if he too , need help , and do not fear to ask for it .
Then , sit in Beth 's little chair close beside him , Jo tell her trouble , the resentful sorrow for her loss , the fruitless effort that discourage her , the want of faith that make life look so dark , and all the sad bewilderment which we call despair .
She give him entire confidence , he give her the help she need , and both find consolation in the act .
For the time have come when they could talk together not only a father and daughter , but a man and woman , able and glad to serve each other with mutual sympathy as well a mutual love .
Happy , thoughtful time there in the old study which Jo call ` the church of one member ' , and from which she come with fresh courage , recover cheerfulness , and a more submissive spirit .
For the parent who have teach one child to meet death without fear , be try now to teach another to accept life without despondency or distrust , and to use it beautiful opportunity with gratitude and power .
Other help have Jo -- humble , wholesome duty and delight that would not be deny their part in serve her , and which she slowly learn to see and value .
Brooms and dishcloth never could be as distasteful a they once have be , for Beth have preside over both , and something of her housewifely spirit seem to linger around the little mop and the old brush , never throw away .
As she use them , Jo find herself hum the song Beth use to hum , imitate Beth 's orderly way , and give the little touch here and there that keep everything fresh and cozy , which be the first step toward make home happy , though she do n't know it till Hannah say with an approve squeeze of the hand ... `` You thoughtful creeter , you 're determine we sha n't miss that dear lamb ef you can help it .
We do n't say much , but we see it , and the Lord will bless you for ` t , see ef He do n't . ''
As they sit sew together , Jo discover how much improve her sister Meg be , how well she could talk , how much she know about good , womanly impulse , thought , and feeling , how happy she be in husband and child , and how much they be all do for each other .
`` Marriage be an excellent thing , after all .
I wonder if I should blossom out half as well a you have , if I try it ?
, always ` perwisin ' I could , '' say Jo , a she construct a kite for Demi in the topsy-turvy nursery .
`` It 's just what you need to bring out the tender womanly half of your nature , Jo .
You be like a chestnut burr , prickly outside , but silky-soft within , and a sweet kernal , if one can only get at it .
Love will make you show your heart one day , and then the rough burr will fall off . ''
`` Frost open chestnut burr , ma'am , and it take a good shake to bring them down .
Boys go nutting , and I do n't care to be bag by them , '' return Jo , paste away at the kite which no wind that blow would ever carry up , for Daisy have tie herself on a a bob .
Meg laugh , for she be glad to see a glimmer of Jo 's old spirit , but she felt it her duty to enforce her opinion by every argument in her power , and the sisterly chat be not waste , especially a two of Meg 's most effective argument be the baby , whom Jo love tenderly .
Grief be the best opener of some heart , and Jo 's be nearly ready for the bag .
A little more sunshine to ripen the nut , then , not a boy 's impatient shake , but a man 's hand reach up to pick it gently from the burr , and find the kernal sound and sweet .
If she suspect this , she would have shut up tight , and be more prickly than ever , fortunately she be n't think about herself , so when the time come , down she drop .
Now , if she have be the heroine of a moral storybook , she ought at this period of her life to have become quite saintly , renounce the world , and go about do good in a mortified bonnet , with tract in her pocket .
But , you see , Jo be n't a heroine , she be only a struggle human girl like hundred of others , and she just act out her nature , be sad , cross , listless , or energetic , a the mood suggest .
It 's highly virtuous to say we 'll be good , but we ca n't do it all at once , and it take a long pull , a strong pull , and a pull all together before some of u even get our foot set in the right way .
Jo have get so far , she be learn to do her duty , and to feel unhappy if she do not , but to do it cheerfully , ah , that be another thing !
She have often say she want to do something splendid , no matter how hard , and now she have her wish , for what could be more beautiful than to devote her life to Father and Mother , try to make home a happy to them a they have to her ?
And if difficulty be necessary to increase the splendor of the effort , what could be hard for a restless , ambitious girl than to give up her own hope , plan , and desire , and cheerfully live for others ?
Providence have take her at her word .
Here be the task , not what she have expect , but good because self have no part in it .
Now , could she do it ?
She decide that she would try , and in her first attempt she find the help I have suggest .
Still another be give her , and she take it , not a a reward , but a a comfort , a Christian take the refreshment afford by the little arbor where he rest , a he climb the hill call Difficulty .
`` Why do n't you write ?
That always use to make you happy , '' say her mother once , when the desponding fit over-shadowed Jo .
`` I 've no heart to write , and if I have , nobody care for my thing . ''
`` We do .
Write something for u , and never mind the rest of the world .
Try it , dear .
I 'm sure it would do you good , and please u very much . ''
`` Do n't believe I can . ''
But Jo get out her desk and begin to overhaul her half-finished manuscript .
An hour afterward her mother peep in and there she be , scratch away , with her black pinafore on , and an absorbed expression , which cause Mrs. March to smile and slip away , well pleased with the success of her suggestion .
Jo never know how it happen , but something get into that story that go straight to the heart of those who read it , for when her family have laugh and cry over it , her father send it , much against her will , to one of the popular magazine , and to her utter surprise , it be not only pay for , but others request .
Letters from several person , whose praise be honor , follow the appearance of the little story , newspaper copy it , and stranger as well a friend admire it .
For a small thing it be a great success , and Jo be more astonished than when her novel be commend and condemn all at once .
`` I do n't understand it .
What can there be in a simple little story like that to make people praise it so ? ''
she say , quite bewilder .
`` There be truth in it , Jo , that 's the secret .
Humor and pathos make it alive , and you have find your style at last .
You write with no thought of fame and money , and put your heart into it , my daughter .
You have have the bitter , now come the sweet .
Do your best , and grow as happy a we be in your success . ''
`` If there be anything good or true in what I write , it be n't mine .
I owe it all to you and Mother and Beth , '' say Jo , more touched by her father 's word than by any amount of praise from the world .
So taught by love and sorrow , Jo write her little story , and send them away to make friend for themselves and her , find it a very charitable world to such humble wanderer , for they be kindly welcome , and send home comfortable token to their mother , like dutiful child whom good fortune overtakes .
When Amy and Laurie write of their engagement , Mrs. March fear that Jo would find it difficult to rejoice over it , but her fear be soon set at rest , for though Jo look grave at first , she take it very quietly , and be full of hope and plan for ` the child ' before she read the letter twice .
It be a sort of write duet , wherein each glorify the other in loverlike fashion , very pleasant to read and satisfactory to think of , for no one have any objection to make .
`` You like it , Mother ? ''
say Jo , a they lay down the closely write sheet and look at one another .
`` Yes , I hop it would be so , ever since Amy write that she have refuse Fred .
I felt sure then that something good than what you call the ` mercenary spirit ' have come over her , and a hint here and there in her letter make me suspect that love and Laurie would win the day . ''
`` How sharp you be , Marmee , and how silent !
You never say a word to me . ''
`` Mothers have need of sharp eye and discreet tongue when they have girl to manage .
I be half afraid to put the idea into your head , lest you should write and congratulate them before the thing be settle . ''
`` I 'm not the scatterbrain I be .
You may trust me .
I 'm sober and sensible enough for anyone 's confidante now . ''
`` So you be , my dear , and I should have make you mine , only I fancy it might pain you to learn that your Teddy love someone else . ''
`` Now , Mother , do you really think I could be so silly and selfish , after I 'd refuse his love , when it be freshest , if not best ? ''
`` I know you be sincere then , Jo , but lately I have think that if he come back , and ask again , you might perhaps , feel like give another answer .
Forgive me , dear , I ca n't help see that you be very lonely , and sometimes there be a hungry look in your eye that go to my heart .
So I fancy that your boy might fill the empty place if he try now . ''
`` No , Mother , it be well a it be , and I 'm glad Amy have learn to love him .
But you be right in one thing .
I be lonely , and perhaps if Teddy have try again , I might have say ` Yes ' , not because I love him any more , but because I care more to be love than when he go away . ''
`` I 'm glad of that , Jo , for it show that you be get on .
There be plenty to love you , so try to be satisfy with Father and Mother , sister and brother , friend and baby , till the best lover of all come to give you your reward . ''
`` Mothers be the best lover in the world , but I do n't mind whisper to Marmee that I 'd like to try all kind .
It 's very curious , but the more I try to satisfy myself with all sort of natural affection , the more I seem to want .
I 'd no idea heart could take in so many .
Mine be so elastic , it never seem full now , and I use to be quite content with my family .
I do n't understand it . ''
`` I do , '' and Mrs. March smile her wise smile , a Jo turn back the leaf to read what Amy say of Laurie .
`` It be so beautiful to be love a Laurie love me .
He be n't sentimental , do n't say much about it , but I see and feel it in all he say and do , and it make me so happy and so humble that I do n't seem to be the same girl I be .
I never know how good and generous and tender he be till now , for he let me read his heart , and I find it full of noble impulse and hope and purpose , and be so proud to know it 's mine .
He say he feel a if he ` could make a prosperous voyage now with me aboard a mate , and lot of love for ballast ' .
I pray he may , and try to be all he believe me , for I love my gallant captain with all my heart and soul and might , and never will desert him , while God let u be together .
Oh , Mother , I never know how much like heaven this world could be , when two people love and live for one another ! ''
`` And that 's our cool , reserve , and worldly Amy !
Truly , love do work miracle .
How very , very happy they must be ! ''
and Jo lay the rustle sheet together with a careful hand , a one might shut the cover of a lovely romance , which hold the reader fast till the end come , and he find himself alone in the workaday world again .
By-and-by Jo roam away upstairs , for it be rainy , and she could not walk .
A restless spirit possess her , and the old feeling come again , not bitter a it once be , but a sorrowfully patient wonder why one sister should have all she ask , the other nothing .
It be not true , she know that and try to put it away , but the natural craving for affection be strong , and Amy 's happiness wake the hungry longing for someone to ` love with heart and soul , and cling to while God let them be together ' .
Up in the garret , where Jo 's unquiet wandering end stood four little wooden chest in a row , each mark with it owner name , and each fill with relic of the childhood and girlhood end now for all .
Jo glance into them , and when she come to her own , lean her chin on the edge , and star absently at the chaotic collection , till a bundle of old exercise book catch her eye .
She draw them out , turn them over , and relive that pleasant winter at kind Mrs. Kirke 's .
She have smile at first , then she look thoughtful , next sad , and when she come to a little message write in the Professor 's hand , her lip begin to tremble , the book slide out of her lap , and she sit look at the friendly word , a they take a new meaning , and touch a tender spot in her heart .
`` Wait for me , my friend .
I may be a little late , but I shall surely come . ''
`` Oh , if he only would !
So kind , so good , so patient with me always , my dear old Fritz .
I do n't value him half enough when I have him , but now how I should love to see him , for everyone seem go away from me , and I 'm all alone . ''
And hold the little paper fast , a if it be a promise yet to be fulfil , Jo lay her head down on a comfortable rag bag , and cry , a if in opposition to the rain patter on the roof .
Was it all self-pity , loneliness , or low spirit ?
Or be it the wake up of a sentiment which have bid it time as patiently a it inspirer ?
Who shall say ?
CHAPTER FORTY-THREE SURPRISES Jo be alone in the twilight , lie on the old sofa , look at the fire , and thinking .
It be her favorite way of spend the hour of dusk .
No one disturb her , and she use to lie there on Beth 's little red pillow , plan story , dream dream , or think tender thought of the sister who never seem far away .
Her face look tired , grave , and rather sad , for tomorrow be her birthday , and she be think how fast the year go by , how old she be get , and how little she seem to have accomplish .
Almost twenty-five , and nothing to show for it .
Jo be mistake in that .
There be a good deal to show , and by-and-by she saw , and be grateful for it .
`` An old maid , that 's what I 'm to be .
A literary spinster , with a pen for a spouse , a family of story for child , and twenty year hence a morsel of fame , perhaps , when , like poor Johnson , I 'm old and ca n't enjoy it , solitary , and ca n't share it , independent , and do n't need it .
Well , I need n't be a sour saint nor a selfish sinner , and , I dare say , old maid be very comfortable when they get use to it , but ... '' and there Jo sigh , a if the prospect be not invite .
It seldom be , at first , and thirty seem the end of all thing to five-and-twenty .
But it 's not as bad a it look , and one can get on quite happily if one have something in one 's self to fall back upon .
At twenty-five , girl begin to talk about be old maid , but secretly resolve that they never will be .
At thirty they say nothing about it , but quietly accept the fact , and if sensible , console themselves by remember that they have twenty more useful , happy year , in which they may be learn to grow old gracefully .
Do n't laugh at the spinster , dear girl , for often very tender , tragic romance be hide away in the heart that beat so quietly under the sober gown , and many silent sacrifice of youth , health , ambition , love itself , make the faded face beautiful in God 's sight .
Even the sad , sour sister should be kindly dealt with , because they have miss the sweet part of life , if for no other reason .
And look at them with compassion , not contempt , girl in their bloom should remember that they too may miss the blossom time .
That rosy cheek do n't last forever , that silver thread will come in the bonnie brown hair , and that , by-and-by , kindness and respect will be as sweet a love and admiration now .
Gentlemen , which mean boy , be courteous to the old maid , no matter how poor and plain and prim , for the only chivalry worth have be that which be the readiest to pay deference to the old , protect the feeble , and serve womankind , regardless of rank , age , or color .
Just recollect the good aunt who have not only lectured and fussed , but nurse and pet , too often without thanks , the scrape they have help you out of , the tip they have give you from their small store , the stitch the patient old finger have set for you , the step the willing old foot have take , and gratefully pay the dear old ladies the little attention that woman love to receive as long a they live .
The bright-eyed girl be quick to see such trait , and will like you all the good for them , and if death , almost the only power that can part mother and son , should rob you of yours , you will be sure to find a tender welcome and maternal cherishing from some Aunt Priscilla , who have keep the warm corner of her lonely old heart for ` the best nevvy in the world ' .
Jo must have fall asleep -LRB- a I dare say my reader have during this little homily -RRB- , for suddenly Laurie 's ghost seem to stand before her , a substantial , lifelike ghost , lean over her with the very look he use to wear when he felt a good deal and do n't like to show it .
But , like Jenny in the ballad ... `` She could not think it he , '' and lay star up at him in startle silence , till he stoop and kiss her .
Then she know him , and fly up , cry joyfully ... `` Oh my Teddy !
Oh my Teddy ! ''
`` Dear Jo , you be glad to see me , then ? ''
`` Glad !
My blessed boy , word ca n't express my gladness .
Where 's Amy ? ''
`` Your mother have get her down at Meg 's .
We stop there by the way , and there be no get my wife out of their clutch . ''
`` Your what ? ''
cry Jo , for Laurie utter those two word with an unconscious pride and satisfaction which betray him .
`` Oh , the dickens !
Now I 've do it , '' and he look so guilty that Jo be down on him like a flash .
`` You 've go and get marry ! ''
`` Yes , please , but I never will again , '' and he go down upon his knee , with a penitent clasping of hand , and a face full of mischief , mirth , and triumph .
`` Actually marry ? ''
`` Very much so , thank you . ''
`` Mercy on u .
What dreadful thing will you do next ? ''
and Jo fell into her seat with a gasp .
`` A characteristic , but not exactly complimentary , congratulation , '' return Laurie , still in an abject attitude , but beam with satisfaction .
`` What can you expect , when you take one 's breath away , creep in like a burglar , and let cat out of bag like that ?
Get up , you ridiculous boy , and tell me all about it . ''
`` Not a word , unless you let me come in my old place , and promise not to barricade . ''
Jo laugh at that a she have not do for many a long day , and pat the sofa invitingly , a she say in a cordial tone , `` The old pillow be up garret , and we do n't need it now .
So , come and ` fes , Teddy . ''
`` How good it sound to hear you say ` Teddy ' !
No one ever call me that but you , '' and Laurie sit down with an air of great content .
`` What do Amy call you ? ''
`` My lord . ''
`` That 's like her .
Well , you look it , '' and Jo 's eye plainly betray that she find her boy comelier than ever .
The pillow be go , but there be a barricade , nevertheless , a natural one , raise by time , absence , and change of heart .
Both felt it , and for a minute look at one another a if that invisible barrier cast a little shadow over them .
It be go directly however , for Laurie say , with a vain attempt at dignity ... `` Do n't I look like a married man and the head of a family ? ''
`` Not a bit , and you never will .
You 've grow big and bonny , but you be the same scapegrace a ever . ''
`` Now really , Jo , you ought to treat me with more respect , '' begin Laurie , who enjoy it all immensely .
`` How can I , when the mere idea of you , marry and settle , be so irresistibly funny that I ca n't keep sober ! ''
answer Jo , smile all over her face , so infectiously that they have another laugh , and then settle down for a good talk , quite in the pleasant old fashion .
`` It 's no use your go out in the cold to get Amy , for they be all come up presently .
I could n't wait .
I want to be the one to tell you the grand surprise , and have ` first skim ' a we use to say when we squabble about the cream . ''
`` Of course you do , and spoil your story by begin at the wrong end .
Now , start right , and tell me how it all happen .
I 'm pin to know . ''
`` Well , I do it to please Amy , '' begin Laurie , with a twinkle that make Jo exclaim ... `` Fib number one .
Amy do it to please you .
Go on , and tell the truth , if you can , sir . ''
`` Now she 's begin to marm it .
Is n't it jolly to hear her ? ''
say Laurie to the fire , and the fire glow and sparkle a if it quite agree .
`` It 's all the same , you know , she and I be one .
We plan to come home with the Carrols , a month or more ago , but they suddenly change their mind , and decide to pass another winter in Paris .
But Grandpa want to come home .
He go to please me , and I could n't let him go alone , neither could I leave Amy , and Mrs. Carrol have get English notion about chaperon and such nonsense , and would n't let Amy come with u .
So I just settle the difficulty by say , ` Let 's be marry , and then we can do a we like ' . ''
`` Of course you do .
You always have thing to suit you . ''
`` Not always , '' and something in Laurie 's voice make Jo say hastily ... `` How do you ever get Aunt to agree ? ''
`` It be hard work , but between u , we talk her over , for we have heap of good reason on our side .
There be n't time to write and ask leave , but you all like it , have consent to it by-and-by , and it be only ` take time by the fetlock ' , a my wife say . ''
`` Are n't we proud of those two word , and do n't we like to say them ? ''
interrupt Jo , address the fire in her turn , and watch with delight the happy light it seem to kindle in the eye that have be so tragically gloomy when she saw them last .
`` A trifle , perhaps , she 's such a captivate little woman I ca n't help be proud of her .
Well , then Uncle and Aunt be there to play propriety .
We be so absorb in one another we be of no mortal use apart , and that charm arrangement would make everything easy all round , so we do it . ''
`` When , where , how ? ''
ask Jo , in a fever of feminine interest and curiosity , for she could not realize it a particle .
`` Six week ago , at the American consul 's , in Paris , a very quiet wedding of course , for even in our happiness we do n't forget dear little Beth . ''
Jo put her hand in his a he say that , and Laurie gently smooth the little red pillow , which he remember well .
`` Why do n't you let u know afterward ? ''
ask Jo , in a quieter tone , when they have sit quite still a minute .
`` We want to surprise you .
We think we be come directly home , at first , but the dear old gentleman , as soon a we be marry , find he could n't be ready under a month , at least , and send u off to spend our honeymoon wherever we like .
Amy have once call Valrosa a regular honeymoon home , so we go there , and be as happy a people be but once in their life .
My faith !
Was n't it love among the rose ! ''
Laurie seem to forget Jo for a minute , and Jo be glad of it , for the fact that he tell her these thing so freely and so naturally assure her that he have quite forgive and forget .
She try to draw away her hand , but a if he guess the thought that prompt the half-involuntary impulse , Laurie hold it fast , and say , with a manly gravity she have never see in him before ... `` Jo , dear , I want to say one thing , and then we 'll put it by forever .
As I tell you in my letter when I write that Amy have be so kind to me , I never shall stop loving you , but the love be alter , and I have learn to see that it be well a it be .
Amy and you change place in my heart , that 's all .
I think it be mean to be so , and would have come about naturally , if I have wait , a you try to make me , but I never could be patient , and so I get a heartache .
I be a boy then , headstrong and violent , and it take a hard lesson to show me my mistake .
For it be one , Jo , a you say , and I find it out , after make a fool of myself .
Upon my word , I be so tumbled up in my mind , at one time , that I do n't know which I love best , you or Amy , and try to love you both alike .
But I could n't , and when I saw her in Switzerland , everything seem to clear up all at once .
You both get into your right place , and I felt sure that it be well off with the old love before it be on with the new , that I could honestly share my heart between sister Jo and wife Amy , and love them dearly .
Will you believe it , and go back to the happy old time when we first know one another ? ''
`` I 'll believe it , with all my heart , but , Teddy , we never can be boy and girl again .
The happy old time ca n't come back , and we must n't expect it .
We be man and woman now , with sober work to do , for playtime be over , and we must give up frolicking .
I 'm sure you feel this .
I see the change in you , and you 'll find it in me .
I shall miss my boy , but I shall love the man a much , and admire him more , because he mean to be what I hop he would .
We ca n't be little playmate any longer , but we will be brother and sister , to love and help one another all our life , wo n't we , Laurie ? ''
He do not say a word , but take the hand she offer him , and lay his face down on it for a minute , feel that out of the grave of a boyish passion , there have rise a beautiful , strong friendship to bless them both .
Presently Jo say cheerfully , for she do n't want the come home to be a sad one , `` I ca n't make it true that you child be really married and go to set up housekeeping .
Why , it seem only yesterday that I be button Amy 's pinafore , and pull your hair when you tease .
Mercy me , how time do fly ! ''
`` As one of the child be old than yourself , you need n't talk so like a grandma .
I flatter myself I 'm a ` gentleman grow ' a Peggotty say of David , and when you see Amy , you 'll find her rather a precocious infant , '' say Laurie , look amuse at her maternal air .
`` You may be a little old in year , but I 'm ever so much old in feeling , Teddy .
Women always be , and this last year have be such a hard one that I feel forty . ''
`` Poor Jo !
We leave you to bear it alone , while we go pleasuring .
You be old .
Here 's a line , and there 's another .
Unless you smile , your eye look sad , and when I touch the cushion , just now , I find a tear on it .
You 've have a great deal to bear , and have to bear it all alone .
What a selfish beast I 've be ! ''
and Laurie pull his own hair , with a remorseful look .
But Jo only turn over the traitorous pillow , and answer , in a tone which she try to make more cheerful , `` No , I have Father and Mother to help me , and the dear baby to comfort me , and the thought that you and Amy be safe and happy , to make the trouble here easy to bear .
I be lonely , sometimes , but I dare say it 's good for me , and ... '' `` You never shall be again , '' break in Laurie , put his arm about her , a if to fence out every human ill .
`` Amy and I ca n't get on without you , so you must come and teach ` the child ' to keep house , and go half in everything , just a we use to do , and let u pet you , and all be blissfully happy and friendly together . ''
`` If I should n't be in the way , it would be very pleasant .
I begin to feel quite young already , for somehow all my trouble seem to fly away when you come .
You always be a comfort , Teddy , '' and Jo lean her head on his shoulder , just a she do year ago , when Beth lay ill and Laurie tell her to hold on to him .
He look down at her , wonder if she remember the time , but Jo be smile to herself , a if in truth her trouble have all vanish at his come .
`` You be the same Jo still , drop tear about one minute , and laugh the next .
You look a little wicked now .
What be it , Grandma ? ''
`` I be wonder how you and Amy get on together . ''
`` Like angel ! ''
`` Yes , of course , but which rule ? ''
`` I do n't mind tell you that she do now , at least I let her think so , it please her , you know .
By-and-by we shall take turn , for marriage , they say , halve one 's right and double one 's duty . ''
`` You 'll go on a you begin , and Amy will rule you all the day of your life . ''
`` Well , she do it so imperceptibly that I do n't think I shall mind much .
She be the sort of woman who know how to rule well .
In fact , I rather like it , for she wind one round her finger a softly and prettily a a skein of silk , and make you feel a if she be do you a favor all the while . ''
`` That ever I should live to see you a henpecked husband and enjoy it ! ''
cry Jo , with uplifted hand .
It be good to see Laurie square his shoulder , and smile with masculine scorn at that insinuation , a he reply , with his `` high and mighty '' air , `` Amy be too well-bred for that , and I be not the sort of man to submit to it .
My wife and I respect ourselves and one another too much ever to tyrannize or quarrel . ''
Jo like that , and think the new dignity very become , but the boy seem change very fast into the man , and regret mingle with her pleasure .
`` I be sure of that .
Amy and you never do quarrel a we use to .
She be the sun and I the wind , in the fable , and the sun manage the man best , you remember . ''
`` She can blow him up as well a shine on him , '' laugh Laurie .
`` Such a lecture a I get at Nice !
I give you my word it be a deal bad than any of your scolding , a regular rouser .
I 'll tell you all about it sometime , she never will , because after tell me that she despise and be ashamed of me , she lose her heart to the despicable party and marry the good-for-nothing . ''
`` What baseness !
Well , if she abuse you , come to me , and I 'll defend you . ''
`` I look a if I need it , do n't I ? ''
say Laurie , get up and strike an attitude which suddenly change from the imposing to the rapturous , a Amy 's voice be hear call , `` Where be she ?
Where 's my dear old Jo ? ''
In troop the whole family , and everyone be hug and kiss all over again , and after several vain attempt , the three wanderer be set down to be look at and exult over .
Mr. Laurence , hale and hearty a ever , be quite as much improve a the others by his foreign tour , for the crustiness seem to be nearly go , and the old-fashioned courtliness have receive a polish which make it kindly than ever .
It be good to see him beam at ` my child ' , a he call the young pair .
It be well still to see Amy pay him the daughterly duty and affection which completely win his old heart , and best of all , to watch Laurie revolve about the two , a if never tire of enjoy the pretty picture they make .
The minute she put her eye upon Amy , Meg become conscious that her own dress have n't a Parisian air , that young Mrs. Moffat would be entirely eclipse by young Mrs. Laurence , and that ` her ladyship ' be altogether a most elegant and graceful woman .
Jo thought , a she watch the pair , `` How well they look together !
I be right , and Laurie have find the beautiful , accomplish girl who will become his home well than clumsy old Jo , and be a pride , not a torment to him . ''
Mrs. March and her husband smile and nod at each other with happy face , for they saw that their young have do well , not only in worldly thing , but the good wealth of love , confidence , and happiness .
For Amy 's face be full of the soft brightness which betoken a peaceful heart , her voice have a new tenderness in it , and the cool , prim carriage be change to a gentle dignity , both womanly and win .
No little affectation mar it , and the cordial sweetness of her manner be more charming than the new beauty or the old grace , for it stamp her at once with the unmistakable sign of the true gentlewoman she have hop to become .
`` Love have do much for our little girl , '' say her mother softly .
`` She have have a good example before her all her life , my dear , '' Mr. March whisper back , with a loving look at the worn face and gray head beside him .
Daisy find it impossible to keep her eye off her ` pitty aunty ' , but attach herself like a lap dog to the wonderful chatelaine full of delightful charm .
Demi pause to consider the new relationship before he compromise himself by the rash acceptance of a bribe , which take the tempting form of a family of wooden bear from Berne .
A flank movement produce an unconditional surrender , however , for Laurie know where to have him .
`` Young man , when I first have the honor of make your acquaintance you hit me in the face .
Now I demand the satisfaction of a gentleman , '' and with that the tall uncle proceed to toss and tousle the small nephew in a way that damage his philosophical dignity as much a it delight his boyish soul .
`` Blest if she ai n't in silk from head to foot ; ai n't it a relishin ' sight to see her settin ' there as fine a a fiddle , and hear folk call little Amy ` Mis .
Laurence ! ' ''
mutter old Hannah , who could not resist frequent `` peek '' through the slide a she set the table in a most decidedly promiscuous manner .
Mercy on u , how they do talk !
first one , then the other , then all burst out together -- try to tell the history of three year in half an hour .
It be fortunate that tea be at hand , to produce a lull and provide refreshment -- for they would have be hoarse and faint if they have go on much long .
Such a happy procession a file away into the little dining room !
Mr. March proudly escort Mrs. Laurence .
Mrs. March a proudly lean on the arm of ` my son ' .
The old gentleman take Jo , with a whispered , `` You must be my girl now , '' and a glance at the empty corner by the fire , that make Jo whisper back , `` I 'll try to fill her place , sir . ''
The twin prance behind , feel that the millennium be at hand , for everyone be so busy with the newcomer that they be leave to revel at their own sweet will , and you may be sure they make the most of the opportunity .
Did n't they steal sip of tea , stuff gingerbread ad libitum , get a hot biscuit apiece , and a a crown trespass , do n't they each whisk a captivating little tart into their tiny pocket , there to stick and crumble treacherously , teach them that both human nature and a pastry be frail ?
Burdened with the guilty consciousness of the sequestered tart , and fear that Dodo 's sharp eye would pierce the thin disguise of cambric and merino which hide their booty , the little sinner attach themselves to ` Dranpa ' , who have n't his spectacle on .
Amy , who be hand about like refreshment , return to the parlor on Father Laurence 's arm .
The others pair off a before , and this arrangement leave Jo companionless .
She do not mind it at the minute , for she linger to answer Hannah 's eager inquiry .
`` Will Miss Amy ride in her coop -LRB- coupe -RRB- , and use all them lovely silver dish that 's store away over yander ? ''
`` Should n't wonder if she drive six white horse , eat off gold plate , and wear diamond and point lace every day .
Teddy think nothing too good for her , '' return Jo with infinite satisfaction .
`` No more there be !
Will you have hash or fishballs for breakfast ? ''
ask Hannah , who wisely mingle poetry and prose .
`` I do n't care , '' and Jo shut the door , feel that food be an uncongenial topic just then .
She stand a minute look at the party vanish above , and a Demi 's short plaid leg toil up the last stair , a sudden sense of loneliness come over her so strongly that she look about her with dim eye , a if to find something to lean upon , for even Teddy have desert her .
If she have know what birthday gift be come every minute nearer and nearer , she would not have say to herself , `` I 'll weep a little weep when I go to bed .
It wo n't do to be dismal now . ''
Then she draw her hand over her eye , for one of her boyish habit be never to know where her handkerchief be , and have just manage to call up a smile when there come a knock at the porch door .
She open with hospitable haste , and start a if another ghost have come to surprise her , for there stand a tall beard gentleman , beam on her from the darkness like a midnight sun .
`` Oh , Mr. Bhaer , I be so glad to see you ! ''
cry Jo , with a clutch , a if she fear the night would swallow him up before she could get him in .
`` And I to see Miss Marsch , but no , you haf a party , '' and the Professor pause a the sound of voice and the tap of dance foot come down to them .
`` No , we have n't , only the family .
My sister and friend have just come home , and we be all very happy .
Come in , and make one of u . ''
Though a very social man , I think Mr. Bhaer would have go decorously away , and come again another day , but how could he , when Jo shut the door behind him , and bereft him of his hat ?
Perhaps her face have something to do with it , for she forget to hide her joy at see him , and show it with a frankness that prove irresistible to the solitary man , whose welcome far exceed his bold hope .
`` If I shall not be Monsieur de Trop , I will so gladly see them all .
You haf be ill , my friend ? ''
He put the question abruptly , for , a Jo hang up his coat , the light fell on her face , and he saw a change in it .
`` Not ill , but tire and sorrowful .
We have have trouble since I saw you last . ''
`` Ah , yes , I know .
My heart be sore for you when I hear that , '' and he shake hand again , with such a sympathetic face that Jo felt a if no comfort could equal the look of the kind eye , the grasp of the big , warm hand .
`` Father , Mother , this be my friend , Professor Bhaer , '' she say , with a face and tone of such irrepressible pride and pleasure that she might as well have blow a trumpet and open the door with a flourish .
If the stranger have any doubt about his reception , they be set at rest in a minute by the cordial welcome he receive .
Everyone greet him kindly , for Jo 's sake at first , but very soon they like him for his own .
They could not help it , for he carry the talisman that open all heart , and these simple people warm to him at once , feel even the more friendly because he be poor .
For poverty enriches those who live above it , and be a sure passport to truly hospitable spirit .
Mr. Bhaer sit look about him with the air of a traveler who knock at a strange door , and when it open , find himself at home .
The child go to him like bee to a honeypot , and establish themselves on each knee , proceed to captivate him by rifle his pocket , pull his beard , and investigate his watch , with juvenile audacity .
The woman telegraph their approval to one another , and Mr. March , feel that he have get a kindred spirit , open his choicest store for his guest 's benefit , while silent John listen and enjoy the talk , but say not a word , and Mr. Laurence find it impossible to go to sleep .
If Jo have not be otherwise engage , Laurie 's behavior would have amuse her , for a faint twinge , not of jealousy , but something like suspicion , cause that gentleman to stand aloof at first , and observe the newcomer with brotherly circumspection .
But it do not last long .
He get interested in spite of himself , and before he know it , be draw into the circle .
For Mr. Bhaer talk well in this genial atmosphere , and do himself justice .
He seldom speak to Laurie , but he look at him often , and a shadow would pass across his face , a if regret his own lose youth , a he watch the young man in his prime .
Then his eye would turn to Jo so wistfully that she would have surely answer the mute inquiry if she have see it .
But Jo have her own eye to take care of , and feel that they could not be trust , she prudently keep them on the little sock she be knit , like a model maiden aunt .
A stealthy glance now and then refresh her like sip of fresh water after a dusty walk , for the sidelong peep show her several propitious omen .
Mr. Bhaer 's face have lose the absent-minded expression , and look all alive with interest in the present moment , actually young and handsome , she think , forget to compare him with Laurie , a she usually do strange men , to their great detriment .
Then he seem quite inspired , though the burial custom of the ancient , to which the conversation have stray , might not be consider an exhilarate topic .
Jo quite glow with triumph when Teddy get quench in an argument , and think to herself , a she watch her father 's absorbed face , `` How he would enjoy have such a man a my Professor to talk with every day ! ''
Lastly , Mr. Bhaer be dress in a new suit of black , which make him look more like a gentleman than ever .
His bushy hair have be cut and smoothly brush , but do n't stay in order long , for in exciting moment , he rumple it up in the droll way he use to do , and Jo like it rampantly erect good than flat , because she think it give his fine forehead a Jove-like aspect .
Poor Jo , how she do glorify that plain man , a she sit knit away so quietly , yet let nothing escape her , not even the fact that Mr. Bhaer actually have gold sleeve-buttons in his immaculate wristband .
`` Dear old fellow !
He could n't have get himself up with more care if he 'd be go a-wooing , '' say Jo to herself , and then a sudden thought born of the word make her blush so dreadfully that she have to drop her ball , and go down after it to hide her face .
The maneuver do not succeed as well a she expect , however , for though just in the act of set fire to a funeral pyre , the Professor drop his torch , metaphorically speak , and make a dive after the little blue ball .
Of course they bump their head smartly together , saw star , and both come up flush and laugh , without the ball , to resume their seat , wish they have not leave them .
Nobody know where the evening go to , for Hannah skillfully abstract the baby at an early hour , nod like two rosy poppy , and Mr. Laurence go home to rest .
The others sit round the fire , talk away , utterly regardless of the lapse of time , till Meg , whose maternal mind be impress with a firm conviction that Daisy have tumble out of bed , and Demi set his nightgown afire study the structure of match , make a move to go .
`` We must have our sing , in the good old way , for we be all together again once more , '' say Jo , feel that a good shout would be a safe and pleasant vent for the jubilant emotion of her soul .
They be not all there .
But no one find the word thougtless or untrue , for Beth still seem among them , a peaceful presence , invisible , but dearer than ever , since death could not break the household league that love make disoluble .
The little chair stand in it old place .
The tidy basket , with the bit of work she leave unfinished when the needle grow ` so heavy ' , be still on it accustom shelf .
The beloved instrument , seldom touch now have not be move , and above it Beth 's face , serene and smile , a in the early day , look down upon them , seem to say , `` Be happy .
I be here . ''
`` Play something , Amy .
Let them hear how much you have improve , '' say Laurie , with pardonable pride in his promising pupil .
But Amy whisper , with full eye , a she twirl the faded stool , `` Not tonight , dear .
I ca n't show off tonight . ''
But she do show something good than brilliancy or skill , for she sing Beth 's song with a tender music in her voice which the best master could not have teach , and touch the listener 's heart with a sweeter power than any other inspiration could have give her .
The room be very still , when the clear voice fail suddenly at the last line of Beth 's favorite hymn .
It be hard to say ... Earth hath no sorrow that heaven can not heal ; and Amy lean against her husband , who stand behind her , feel that her welcome home be not quite perfect without Beth 's kiss .
`` Now , we must finish with Mignon 's song , for Mr. Bhaer sing that , '' say Jo , before the pause grow painful .
And Mr. Bhaer clear his throat with a gratified `` Hem ! ''
a he step into the corner where Jo stand , say ... `` You will sing with me ?
We go excellently well together . ''
A pleasing fiction , by the way , for Jo have no more idea of music than a grasshopper .
But she would have consent if he have propose to sing a whole opera , and warble away , blissfully regardless of time and tune .
It do n't much matter , for Mr. Bhaer sing like a true German , heartily and well , and Jo soon subside into a subdue hum , that she might listen to the mellow voice that seem to sing for her alone .
Know ` st thou the land where the citron bloom , use to be the Professor 's favorite line , for ` das land ' meant Germany to him , but now he seem to dwell , with peculiar warmth and melody , upon the word ... There , oh there , might I with thee , O , my beloved , go and one listener be so thrill by the tender invitation that she long to say she do know the land , and would joyfully depart thither whenever he like .
The song be consider a great success , and the singer retire cover with laurel .
But a few minute afterward , he forget his manner entirely , and star at Amy put on her bonnet , for she have be introduce simply a ` my sister ' , and no one have call her by her new name since he come .
He forget himself still far when Laurie say , in his most gracious manner , at parting ... `` My wife and I be very glad to meet you , sir .
Please remember that there be always a welcome waiting for you over the way . ''
Then the Professor thank him so heartily , and look so suddenly illuminate with satisfaction , that Laurie think him the most delightfully demonstrative old fellow he ever meet .
`` I too shall go , but I shall gladly come again , if you will gif me leave , dear madame , for a little business in the city will keep me here some day . ''
He speak to Mrs. March , but he look at Jo , and the mother 's voice give a cordial an assent a do the daughter 's eye , for Mrs. March be not so blind to her child 's interest a Mrs. Moffat suppose .
`` I suspect that be a wise man , '' remark Mr. March , with placid satisfaction , from the hearthrug , after the last guest have go .
`` I know he be a good one , '' add Mrs. March , with decided approval , a she wind up the clock .
`` I think you 'd like him , '' be all Jo say , a she slip away to her bed .
She wonder what the business be that bring Mr. Bhaer to the city , and finally decide that he have be appoint to some great honor , somewhere , but have be too modest to mention the fact .
If she have see his face when , safe in his own room , he look at the picture of a severe and rigid young lady , with a good deal of hair , who appear to be gaze darkly into futurity , it might have throw some light upon the subject , especially when he turn off the gas , and kiss the picture in the dark .
CHAPTER FORTY-FOUR MY LORD AND LADY `` Please , Madam Mother , could you lend me my wife for half an hour ?
The luggage have come , and I 've be make hay of Amy 's Paris finery , try to find some thing I want , '' say Laurie , come in the next day to find Mrs. Laurence sit in her mother 's lap , a if be make ` the baby ' again .
`` Certainly .
Go , dear , I forget that you have any home but this , '' and Mrs. March press the white hand that wear the wedding ring , a if ask pardon for her maternal covetousness .
`` I should n't have come over if I could have help it , but I ca n't get on without my little woman any more than a. .
. ''
`` Weathercock can without the wind , '' suggest Jo , a he pause for a simile .
Jo have grow quite her own saucy self again since Teddy come home .
`` Exactly , for Amy keep me point due west most of the time , with only an occasional whiffle round to the south , and I have n't have an easterly spell since I be marry .
Do n't know anything about the north , but be altogether salubrious and balmy , hey , my lady ? ''
`` Lovely weather so far .
I do n't know how long it will last , but I 'm not afraid of storm , for I 'm learn how to sail my ship .
Come home , dear , and I 'll find your bootjack .
I suppose that 's what you be rummage after among my thing .
Men be so helpless , Mother , '' say Amy , with a matronly air , which delight her husband .
`` What be you go to do with yourselves after you get settle ? ''
ask Jo , button Amy 's cloak a she use to button her pinafore .
`` We have our plan .
We do n't mean to say much about them yet , because we be such very new broom , but we do n't intend to be idle .
I 'm go into business with a devotion that shall delight Grandfather , and prove to him that I 'm not spoil .
I need something of the sort to keep me steady .
I 'm tired of dawdle , and mean to work like a man . ''
`` And Amy , what be she go to do ? ''
ask Mrs. March , well please at Laurie 's decision and the energy with which he speak .
`` After do the civil all round , and air our best bonnet , we shall astonish you by the elegant hospitality of our mansion , the brilliant society we shall draw about u , and the beneficial influence we shall exert over the world at large .
That 's about it , be n't it , Madame Recamier ? ''
ask Laurie with a quizzical look at Amy .
`` Time will show .
Come away , Impertinence , and do n't shock my family by call me name before their face , '' answer Amy , resolve that there should be a home with a good wife in it before she set up a salon a a queen of society .
`` How happy those child seem together ! ''
observed Mr. March , find it difficult to become absorb in his Aristotle after the young couple have go .
`` Yes , and I think it will last , '' add Mrs. March , with the restful expression of a pilot who have bring a ship safely into port .
`` I know it will .
Happy Amy ! ''
and Jo sigh , then smile brightly a Professor Bhaer open the gate with an impatient push .
Later in the evening , when his mind have be set at rest about the bootjack , Laurie say suddenly to his wife , `` Mrs. Laurence . ''
`` My Lord ! ''
`` That man intend to marry our Jo ! ''
`` I hope so , do n't you , dear ? ''
`` Well , my love , I consider him a trump , in the full sense of that expressive word , but I do wish he be a little young and a good deal richer . ''
`` Now , Laurie , do n't be too fastidious and worldly-minded .
If they love one another it do n't matter a particle how old they be nor how poor .
Women never should marry for money ... '' Amy catch herself up short a the word escape her , and look at her husband , who reply , with malicious gravity ... `` Certainly not , though you do hear charm girl say that they intend to do it sometimes .
If my memory serf me , you once think it your duty to make a rich match .
That account , perhaps , for your marry a good-for-nothing like me . ''
`` Oh , my dear boy , do n't , do n't say that !
I forget you be rich when I say ` Yes ' .
I 'd have marry you if you have n't a penny , and I sometimes wish you be poor that I might show how much I love you . ''
And Amy , who be very dignified in public and very fond in private , give convince proof of the truth of her word .
`` You do n't really think I be such a mercenary creature a I try to be once , do you ?
It would break my heart if you do n't believe that I 'd gladly pull in the same boat with you , even if you have to get your living by row on the lake . ''
`` Am I an idiot and a brute ?
How could I think so , when you refuse a rich man for me , and wo n't let me give you half I want to now , when I have the right ?
Girls do it every day , poor thing , and be teach to think it be their only salvation , but you have good lesson , and though I tremble for you at one time , I be not disappointed , for the daughter be true to the mother 's teaching .
I tell Mamma so yesterday , and she look a glad and grateful a if I 'd give her a check for a million , to be spend in charity .
You be not listen to my moral remark , Mrs. Laurence , '' and Laurie pause , for Amy 's eye have an absent look , though fix upon his face .
`` Yes , I be , and admire the mole in your chin at the same time .
I do n't wish to make you vain , but I must confess that I 'm prouder of my handsome husband than of all his money .
Do n't laugh , but your nose be such a comfort to me , '' and Amy softly caress the well-cut feature with artistic satisfaction .
Laurie have receive many compliment in his life , but never one that suit him well , a he plainly show though he do laugh at his wife 's peculiar taste , while she say slowly , `` May I ask you a question , dear ? ''
`` Of course , you may . ''
`` Shall you care if Jo do marry Mr. Bhaer ? ''
`` Oh , that 's the trouble be it ?
I think there be something in the dimple that do n't quite suit you .
Not be a dog in the manger , but the happy fellow alive , I assure you I can dance at Jo 's wedding with a heart as light a my heel .
Do you doubt it , my darling ? ''
Amy look up at him , and be satisfy .
Her little jealous fear vanish forever , and she thank him , with a face full of love and confidence .
`` I wish we could do something for that capital old Professor .
Could n't we invent a rich relation , who shall obligingly die out there in Germany , and leave him a tidy little fortune ? ''
say Laurie , when they begin to pace up and down the long drawing room , arm in arm , a they be fond of do , in memory of the chateau garden .
`` Jo would find u out , and spoil it all .
She be very proud of him , just a he be , and say yesterday that she think poverty be a beautiful thing . ''
`` Bless her dear heart !
She wo n't think so when she have a literary husband , and a dozen little professor and professorins to support .
We wo n't interfere now , but watch our chance , and do them a good turn in spite of themselves .
I owe Jo for a part of my education , and she believe in people 's pay their honest debt , so I 'll get round her in that way . ''
`` How delightful it be to be able to help others , be n't it ?
That be always one of my dream , to have the power of give freely , and thanks to you , the dream have come true . ''
`` Ah , we 'll do quantity of good , wo n't we ?
There 's one sort of poverty that I particularly like to help .
Out-and-out beggar get take care of , but poor gentle folk fare badly , because they wo n't ask , and people do n't dare to offer charity .
Yet there be a thousand way of help them , if one only know how to do it so delicately that it do not offend .
I must say , I like to serve a decayed gentleman well than a blarnerying beggar .
I suppose it 's wrong , but I do , though it be hard . ''
`` Because it take a gentleman to do it , '' add the other member of the domestic admiration society .
`` Thank you , I 'm afraid I do n't deserve that pretty compliment .
But I be go to say that while I be dawdle about abroad , I saw a good many talented young fellow make all sort of sacrifice , and endure real hardship , that they might realize their dream .
Splendid fellow , some of them , work like hero , poor and friendless , but so full of courage , patience , and ambition that I be ashamed of myself , and long to give them a right good lift .
Those be people whom it 's a satisfaction to help , for if they 've get genius , it 's an honor to be allow to serve them , and not let it be lose or delay for want of fuel to keep the pot boiling .
If they have n't , it 's a pleasure to comfort the poor soul , and keep them from despair when they find it out . ''
`` Yes , indeed , and there 's another class who ca n't ask , and who suffer in silence .
I know something of it , for I belong to it before you make a princess of me , a the king do the beggarmaid in the old story .
Ambitious girl have a hard time , Laurie , and often have to see youth , health , and precious opportunity go by , just for want of a little help at the right minute .
People have be very kind to me , and whenever I see girls struggle along , a we use to do , I want to put out my hand and help them , a I be help . ''
`` And so you shall , like an angel a you be ! ''
cry Laurie , resolve , with a glow of philanthropic zeal , to find and endow an institution for the express benefit of young woman with artistic tendency .
`` Rich people have no right to sit down and enjoy themselves , or let their money accumulate for others to waste .
It 's not half so sensible to leave legacy when one die a it be to use the money wisely while alive , and enjoy make one 's fellow creature happy with it .
We 'll have a good time ourselves , and add an extra relish to our own pleasure by give other people a generous taste .
Will you be a little Dorcas , go about empty a big basket of comfort , and fill it up with good deed ? ''
`` With all my heart , if you will be a brave St. Martin , stop a you ride gallantly through the world to share your cloak with the beggar . ''
`` It 's a bargain , and we shall get the best of it ! ''
So the young pair shake hand upon it , and then pace happily on again , feel that their pleasant home be more homelike because they hop to brighten other home , believe that their own foot would walk more uprightly along the flowery path before them , if they smooth rough way for other foot , and feel that their heart be more closely knit together by a love which could tenderly remember those less blest than they .
CHAPTER FORTY-FIVE DAISY AND DEMI I can not feel that I have do my duty a humble historian of the March family , without devote at least one chapter to the two most precious and important member of it .
Daisy and Demi have now arrive at year of discretion , for in this fast age baby of three or four assert their right , and get them , too , which be more than many of their elder do .
If there ever be a pair of twin in danger of be utterly spoil by adoration , it be these prattle Brookes .
Of course they be the most remarkable child ever bear , a will be show when I mention that they walk at eight month , talk fluently at twelve month , and at two year they take their place at table , and behave with a propriety which charm all beholder .
At three , Daisy demand a ` needler ' , and actually make a bag with four stitch in it .
She likewise set up housekeeping in the sideboard , and manage a microscopic cook stove with a skill that bring tear of pride to Hannah 's eye , while Demi learn his letter with his grandfather , who invent a new mode of teach the alphabet by form letter with his arm and leg , thus unite gymnastics for head and heel .
The boy early develop a mechanical genius which delight his father and distract his mother , for he try to imitate every machine he saw , and keep the nursery in a chaotic condition , with his ` sewinsheen ' , a mysterious structure of string , chair , clothespin , and spool , for wheel to go ` wound and wind ' .
Also a basket hung over the back of a chair , in which he vainly try to hoist his too confide sister , who , with feminine devotion , allow her little head to be bump till rescue , when the young inventor indignantly remark , `` Why , Marmar , dat 's my lellywaiter , and me 's try to pull her up . ''
Though utterly unlike in character , the twin get on remarkably well together , and seldom quarrel more than thrice a day .
Of course , Demi tyrannize over Daisy , and gallantly defend her from every other aggressor , while Daisy make a galley slave of herself , and adore her brother a the one perfect be in the world .
A rosy , chubby , sunshiny little soul be Daisy , who find her way to everybody 's heart , and nestle there .
One of the captivating child , who seem make to be kiss and cuddle , adorn and adore like little goddess , and produce for general approval on all festive occasion .
Her small virtue be so sweet that she would have be quite angelic if a few small naughtiness have not keep her delightfully human .
It be all fair weather in her world , and every morning she scramble up to the window in her little nightgown to look out , and say , no matter whether it rain or shone , `` Oh , pitty day , oh , pitty day ! ''
Everyone be a friend , and she offer kiss to a stranger so confidingly that the most inveterate bachelor relent , and baby-lovers become faithful worshiper .
`` Me love evvybody , '' she once say , open her arm , with her spoon in one hand , and her mug in the other , a if eager to embrace and nourish the whole world .
As she grow , her mother begin to feel that the Dovecote would be bless by the presence of an inmate a serene and loving a that which have help to make the old house home , and to pray that she might be spar a loss like that which have lately teach them how long they have entertain an angel unawares .
Her grandfather often call her ` Beth ' , and her grandmother watch over her with untiring devotion , a if try to atone for some past mistake , which no eye but her own could see .
Demi , like a true Yankee , be of an inquire turn , want to know everything , and often get much disturb because he could not get satisfactory answer to his perpetual `` What for ? ''
He also possess a philosophic bent , to the great delight of his grandfather , who use to hold Socratic conversation with him , in which the precocious pupil occasionally pose his teacher , to the undisguised satisfaction of the womenfolk .
`` What make my legs go , Dranpa ? ''
ask the young philosopher , survey those active portion of his frame with a meditative air , while rest after a go-to-bed frolic one night .
`` It 's your little mind , Demi , '' reply the sage , stroke the yellow head respectfully .
`` What be a little mine ? ''
`` It be something which make your body move , a the spring make the wheel go in my watch when I show it to you . ''
`` Open me .
I want to see it go wound . ''
`` I ca n't do that any more than you could open the watch .
God wind you up , and you go till He stop you . ''
`` Does I ? ''
and Demi 's brown eye grow big and bright a he take in the new thought .
`` Is I wound up like the watch ? ''
`` Yes , but I ca n't show you how , for it be do when we do n't see . ''
Demi felt his back , a if expect to find it like that of the watch , and then gravely remark , `` I dess Dod do it when I 's asleep . ''
A careful explanation follow , to which he listen so attentively that his anxious grandmother say , `` My dear , do you think it wise to talk about such thing to that baby ?
He 's get great bump over his eye , and learn to ask the most unanswerable question . ''
`` If he be old enough to ask the question he be old enough to receive true answer .
I be not put the thought into his head , but help him unfold those already there .
These child be wise than we be , and I have no doubt the boy understand every word I have say to him .
Now , Demi , tell me where you keep your mind . ''
If the boy have reply like Alcibiades , `` By the god , Socrates , I can not tell , '' his grandfather would not have be surprise , but when , after stand a moment on one leg , like a meditative young stork , he answer , in a tone of calm conviction , `` In my little belly , '' the old gentleman could only join in Grandma 's laugh , and dismiss the class in metaphysics .
There might have be cause for maternal anxiety , if Demi have not give convince proof that he be a true boy , as well a a budding philosopher , for often , after a discussion which cause Hannah to prophesy , with ominous nod , `` That child ai n't long for this world , '' he would turn about and set her fear at rest by some of the prank with which dear , dirty , naughty little rascal distract and delight their parent 's soul .
Meg make many moral rule , and try to keep them , but what mother be ever proof against the winning wile , the ingenious evasion , or the tranquil audacity of the miniature men and woman who so early show themselves accomplish Artful Dodgers ?
`` No more raisin , Demi .
They 'll make you sick , '' say Mamma to the young person who offer his service in the kitchen with unfailing regularity on plum-pudding day .
`` Me like to be sick . ''
`` I do n't want to have you , so run away and help Daisy make patty cake . ''
He reluctantly depart , but his wrong weigh upon his spirit , and by-and-by when an opportunity come to redress them , he outwit Mamma by a shrewd bargain .
`` Now you have be good child , and I 'll play anything you like , '' say Meg , a she lead her assistant cook upstairs , when the pudding be safely bounce in the pot .
`` Truly , Marmar ? ''
asks Demi , with a brilliant idea in his well-powdered head .
`` Yes , truly .
Anything you say , '' reply the shortsighted parent , prepare herself to sing , `` The Three Little Kittens '' half a dozen time over , or to take her family to `` Buy a penny bun , '' regardless of wind or limb .
But Demi corner her by the cool reply ... `` Then we 'll go and eat up all the raisin . ''
Aunt Dodo be chief playmate and confidante of both child , and the trio turn the little house topsy-turvy .
Aunt Amy be a yet only a name to them , Aunt Beth soon fade into a pleasantly vague memory , but Aunt Dodo be a living reality , and they make the most of her , for which compliment she be deeply grateful .
But when Mr. Bhaer come , Jo neglect her playfellow , and dismay and desolation fell upon their little soul .
Daisy , who be fond of go about peddle kiss , lose her best customer and become bankrupt .
Demi , with infantile penetration , soon discover that Dodo like to play with ` the bear-man ' good than she do him , but though hurt , he conceal his anguish , for he have n't the heart to insult a rival who keep a mine of chocolate drop in his waistcoat pocket , and a watch that could be take out of it case and freely shake by ardent admirer .
Some person might have consider these please liberty a bribe , but Demi do n't see it in that light , and continue to patronize the ` the bear-man ' with pensive affability , while Daisy bestow her small affection upon him at the third call , and consider his shoulder her throne , his arm her refuge , his gifts treasure surpass worth .
Gentlemen be sometimes seize with sudden fit of admiration for the young relative of lady whom they honor with their regard , but this counterfeit philoprogenitiveness sits uneasily upon them , and do not deceive anybody a particle .
Mr. Bhaer 's devotion be sincere , however likewise effective -- for honesty be the best policy in love a in law .
He be one of the men who be at home with child , and look particularly well when little face make a pleasant contrast with his manly one .
His business , whatever it be , detain him from day to day , but even seldom fail to bring him out to see -- well , he always ask for Mr. March , so I suppose he be the attraction .
The excellent papa labor under the delusion that he be , and revel in long discussion with the kindred spirit , till a chance remark of his more observing grandson suddenly enlighten him .
Mr. Bhaer come in one evening to pause on the threshold of the study , astonish by the spectacle that meet his eye .
Prone upon the floor lay Mr. March , with his respectable leg in the air , and beside him , likewise prone , be Demi , try to imitate the attitude with his own short , scarlet-stockinged leg , both groveler so seriously absorb that they be unconscious of spectator , till Mr. Bhaer laugh his sonorous laugh , and Jo cry out , with a scandalized face ... `` Father , Father , here 's the Professor ! ''
Down go the black leg and up come the gray head , a the preceptor say , with undisturbed dignity , `` Good evening , Mr. Bhaer .
Excuse me for a moment .
We be just finish our lesson .
Now , Demi , make the letter and tell it name . ''
`` I know him ! ''
and , after a few convulsive effort , the red leg take the shape of a pair of compass , and the intelligent pupil triumphantly shout , `` It 's a We , Dranpa , it 's a We ! ''
`` He 's a born Weller , '' laugh Jo , a her parent gather himself up , and her nephew try to stand on his head , a the only mode of express his satisfaction that school be over .
`` What have you be at today , bubchen ? ''
ask Mr. Bhaer , pick up the gymnast .
`` Me go to see little Mary . ''
`` And what do you there ? ''
`` I kiss her , '' begin Demi , with artless frankness .
`` Prut !
Thou beginnest early .
What do the little Mary say to that ? ''
ask Mr. Bhaer , continue to confess the young sinner , who stand upon the knee , explore the waistcoat pocket .
`` Oh , she like it , and she kiss me , and I like it .
Do n't little boy like little girl ? ''
ask Demi , with his mouth full , and an air of bland satisfaction .
`` You precocious chick !
Who put that into your head ? ''
say Jo , enjoy the innocent revelation as much a the Professor . ''
'T be n't in mine head , it 's in mine mouf , '' answer literal Demi , put out his tongue , with a chocolate drop on it , think she allude to confectionery , not idea .
`` Thou shouldst save some for the little friend .
Sweets to the sweet , mannling , '' and Mr. Bhaer offer Jo some , with a look that make her wonder if chocolate be not the nectar drunk by the god .
Demi also saw the smile , be impress by it , and artlessy inquire .
.
.
`` Do great boy like great girl , to , ` Fessor ? ''
Like young Washington , Mr. Bhaer ` could n't tell a lie ' , so he give the somewhat vague reply that he believe they do sometimes , in a tone that make Mr. March put down his clothesbrush , glance at Jo 's retire face , and then sink into his chair , look a if the ` precocious chick ' have put an idea into his head that be both sweet and sour .
Why Dodo , when she catch him in the china closet half an hour afterward , nearly squeeze the breath out of his little body with a tender embrace , instead of shake him for be there , and why she follow up this novel performance by the unexpected gift of a big slice of bread and jelly , remain one of the problem over which Demi puzzle his small wit , and be force to leave unsolved forever .
CHAPTER FORTY-SIX UNDER THE UMBRELLA While Laurie and Amy be take conjugal stroll over velvet carpet , a they set their house in order , and plan a blissful future , Mr. Bhaer and Jo be enjoy promenade of a different sort , along muddy road and sodden field .
`` I always do take a walk toward even , and I do n't know why I should give it up , just because I happen to meet the Professor on his way out , '' say Jo to herself , after two or three encounter , for though there be two path to Meg 's whichever one she take she be sure to meet him , either go or return .
He be always walk rapidly , and never seem to see her until quite close , when he would look a if his short-sighted eye have fail to recognize the approach lady till that moment .
Then , if she be go to Meg 's he always have something for the baby .
If her face be turn homeward , he have merely stroll down to see the river , and be just return , unless they be tire of his frequent call .
Under the circumstance , what could Jo do but greet him civilly , and invite him in ?
If she be tire of his visit , she conceal her weariness with perfect skill , and take care that there should be coffee for supper , `` a Friedrich -- I mean Mr. Bhaer -- do n't like tea . ''
By the second week , everyone know perfectly well what be go on , yet everyone try to look a if they be stone-blind to the change in Jo 's face .
They never ask why she sing about her work , do up her hair three time a day , and get so bloom with her evening exercise .
And no one seem to have the slight suspicion that Professor Bhaer , while talk philosophy with the father , be give the daughter lesson in love .
Jo could n't even lose her heart in a decorous manner , but sternly try to quench her feeling , and fail to do so , lead a somewhat agitated life .
She be mortally afraid of be laugh at for surrender , after her many and vehement declaration of independence .
Laurie be her especial dread , but thanks to the new manager , he behave with praiseworthy propriety , never call Mr. Bhaer ' a capital old fellow ' in public , never allude , in the remotest manner , to Jo 's improved appearance , or express the least surprise at see the Professor 's hat on the Marches ' table nearly every evening .
But he exult in private and long for the time to come when he could give Jo a piece of plate , with a bear and a ragged staff on it a an appropriate coat of arm .
For a fortnight , the Professor come and go with lover-like regularity .
Then he stay away for three whole day , and make no sign , a proceeding which cause everybody to look sober , and Jo to become pensive , at first , and then -- ala for romance -- very cross .
`` Disgusted , I dare say , and go home as suddenly a he come .
It 's nothing to me , of course , but I should think he would have come and bid u goodbye like a gentleman , '' she say to herself , with a despair look at the gate , a she put on her thing for the customary walk one dull afternoon .
`` You 'd better take the little umbrella , dear .
It look like rain , '' say her mother , observe that she have on her new bonnet , but not allude to the fact .
`` Yes , Marmee , do you want anything in town ?
I 've get to run in and get some paper , '' return Jo , pull out the bow under her chin before the glass a an excuse for not look at her mother .
`` Yes , I want some twilled silesia , a paper of number nine needle , and two yard of narrow lavender ribbon .
Have you get your thick boot on , and something warm under your cloak ? ''
`` I believe so , '' answer Jo absently .
`` If you happen to meet Mr. Bhaer , bring him home to tea .
I quite long to see the dear man , '' add Mrs. March .
Jo hear that , but make no answer , except to kiss her mother , and walk rapidly away , think with a glow of gratitude , in spite of her heartache , `` How good she be to me !
What do girl do who have n't any mother to help them through their trouble ? ''
The dry-goods store be not down among the counting-houses , bank , and wholesale warerooms , where gentleman most do congregate , but Jo find herself in that part of the city before she do a single errand , loiter along a if wait for someone , examine engineering instrument in one window and sample of wool in another , with most unfeminine interest , tumble over barrel , be half-smothered by descend bale , and hustle unceremoniously by busy men who look a if they wonder ` how the deuce she get there ' .
A drop of rain on her cheek recall her thought from baffle hope to ruin ribbon .
For the drop continue to fall , and be a woman as well a a lover , she felt that , though it be too late to save her heart , she might her bonnet .
Now she remember the little umbrella , which she have forget to take in her hurry to be off , but regret be unavailing , and nothing could be do but borrow one or submit to a drenching .
She look up at the lower sky , down at the crimson bow already fleck with black , forward along the muddy street , then one long , linger look behind , at a certain grimy warehouse , with ` Hoffmann , Swartz , & Co. ' over the door , and say to herself , with a sternly reproachful air ... `` It serve me right !
what business have I to put on all my best thing and come philander down here , hop to see the Professor ?
Jo , I 'm ashamed of you !
No , you shall not go there to borrow an umbrella , or find out where he be , from his friend .
You shall trudge away , and do your errand in the rain , and if you catch your death and ruin your bonnet , it 's no more than you deserve .
Now then ! ''
With that she rush across the street so impetuously that she narrowly escape annihilation from a passing truck , and precipitate herself into the arm of a stately old gentleman , who say , `` I beg pardon , ma'am , '' and look mortally offend .
Somewhat daunted , Jo right herself , spread her handkerchief over the devoted ribbon , and put temptation behind her , hurry on , with increase dampness about the ankle , and much clashing of umbrellas overhead .
The fact that a somewhat dilapidated blue one remain stationary above the unprotected bonnet attract her attention , and look up , she saw Mr. Bhaer look down .
`` I feel to know the strong-minded lady who go so bravely under many horse nose , and so fast through much mud .
What do you down here , my friend ? ''
`` I 'm shop . ''
Mr. Bhaer smile , a he glance from the pickle factory on one side to the wholesale hide and leather concern on the other , but he only say politely , `` You haf no umbrella .
May I go also , and take for you the bundle ? ''
`` Yes , thank you . ''
Jo 's cheek be as red a her ribbon , and she wonder what he think of her , but she do n't care , for in a minute she find herself walk away arm in arm with her Professor , feeling a if the sun have suddenly burst out with uncommon brilliancy , that the world be all right again , and that one thoroughly happy woman be paddle through the wet that day .
`` We think you have go , '' say Jo hastily , for she know he be look at her .
Her bonnet be n't big enough to hide her face , and she fear he might think the joy it betray unmaidenly .
`` Did you believe that I should go with no farewell to those who haf be so heavenly kind to me ? ''
he ask so reproachfully that she felt a if she have insult him by the suggestion , and answer heartily ... `` No , I do n't .
I know you be busy about your own affair , but we rather miss you , Father and Mother especially . ''
`` And you ? ''
`` I 'm always glad to see you , sir . ''
In her anxiety to keep her voice quite calm , Jo make it rather cool , and the frosty little monosyllable at the end seem to chill the Professor , for his smile vanish , a he say gravely ... `` I thank you , and come one more time before I go . ''
`` You be go , then ? ''
`` I haf no longer any business here , it be do . ''
`` Successfully , I hope ? ''
say Jo , for the bitterness of disappointment be in that short reply of his .
`` I ought to think so , for I haf a way open to me by which I can make my bread and gif my Junglings much help . ''
`` Tell me , please !
I like to know all about the -- the boy , '' say Jo eagerly .
`` That be so kind , I gladly tell you .
My friend find for me a place in a college , where I teach a at home , and earn enough to make the way smooth for Franz and Emil .
For this I should be grateful , should I not ? ''
`` Indeed you should .
How splendid it will be to have you do what you like , and be able to see you often , and the boy ! ''
cry Jo , cling to the lad a an excuse for the satisfaction she could not help betraying .
`` Ah !
But we shall not meet often , I fear , this place be at the West . ''
`` So far away ! ''
and Jo leave her skirt to their fate , a if it do n't matter now what become of her clothes or herself .
Mr. Bhaer could read several language , but he have not learn to read woman yet .
He flatter himself that he know Jo pretty well , and be , therefore , much amaze by the contradiction of voice , face , and manner , which she show him in rapid succession that day , for she be in half a dozen different mood in the course of half an hour .
When she meet him she look surprised , though it be impossible to help suspecting that she have come for that express purpose .
When he offer her his arm , she take it with a look that fill him with delight , but when he ask if she miss him , she give such a chilly , formal reply that despair fell upon him .
On learn his good fortune she almost clap her hand .
Was the joy all for the boy ?
Then on hear his destination , she say , `` So far away ! ''
in a tone of despair that lift him on to a pinnacle of hope , but the next minute she tumble him down again by observe , like one entirely absorb in the matter ... `` Here 's the place for my errand .
Will you come in ?
It wo n't take long . ''
Jo rather pride herself upon her shopping capability , and particularly wish to impress her escort with the neatness and dispatch with which she would accomplish the business .
But owe to the flutter she be in , everything go amiss .
She upset the tray of needle , forget the silesia be to be ` twill ' till it be cut off , give the wrong change , and cover herself with confusion by ask for lavender ribbon at the calico counter .
Mr. Bhaer stand by , watch her blush and blunder , and a he watch , his own bewilderment seem to subside , for he be begin to see that on some occasion , woman , like dream , go by contrary .
When they come out , he put the parcel under his arm with a more cheerful aspect , and splash through the puddle a if he rather enjoy it on the whole .
`` Should we no do a little what you call shop for the baby , and haf a farewell feast tonight if I go for my last call at your so pleasant home ? ''
he ask , stop before a window full of fruit and flower .
`` What will we buy ? ''
ask Jo , ignore the latter part of his speech , and sniff the mingled odor with an affectation of delight a they go in .
`` May they haf orange and fig ? ''
ask Mr. Bhaer , with a paternal air .
`` They eat them when they can get them . ''
`` Do you care for nut ? ''
`` Like a squirrel . ''
`` Hamburg grape .
Yes , we shall drink to the Fatherland in those ? ''
Jo frown upon that piece of extravagance , and ask why he do n't buy a frail of date , a cask of raisin , and a bag of almond , and be do with it ?
Whereat Mr. Bhaer confiscate her purse , produce his own , and finish the marketing by buy several pound of grape , a pot of rosy daisy , and a pretty jar of honey , to be regard in the light of a demijohn .
Then distort his pocket with knobby bundle , and give her the flower to hold , he put up the old umbrella , and they travel on again .
`` Miss Marsch , I haf a great favor to ask of you , '' begin the Professor , after a moist promenade of half a block .
`` Yes , sir ? ''
and Jo 's heart begin to beat so hard she be afraid he would hear it .
`` I be bold to say it in spite of the rain , because so short a time remain to me . ''
`` Yes , sir , '' and Jo nearly crush the small flowerpot with the sudden squeeze she give it .
`` I wish to get a little dress for my Tina , and I be too stupid to go alone .
Will you kindly gif me a word of taste and help ? ''
`` Yes , sir , '' and Jo felt a calm and cool all of a sudden a if she have step into a refrigerator .
`` Perhaps also a shawl for Tina 's mother , she be so poor and sick , and the husband be such a care .
Yes , yes , a thick , warm shawl would be a friendly thing to take the little mother . ''
`` I 'll do it with pleasure , Mr. Bhaer . ''
`` I 'm go very fast , and he 's get dearer every minute , '' add Jo to herself , then with a mental shake she enter into the business with an energy that be pleasant to behold .
Mr. Bhaer leave it all to her , so she choose a pretty gown for Tina , and then order out the shawl .
The clerk , be a married man , condescend to take an interest in the couple , who appear to be shop for their family .
`` Your lady may prefer this .
It 's a superior article , a most desirable color , quite chaste and genteel , '' he say , shake out a comfortable gray shawl , and throw it over Jo 's shoulder .
`` Does this suit you , Mr. Bhaer ? ''
she ask , turn her back to him , and feel deeply grateful for the chance of hide her face .
`` Excellently well , we will haf it , '' answer the Professor , smile to himself a he pay for it , while Jo continue to rummage the counter like a confirmed bargain-hunter .
`` Now shall we go home ? ''
he ask , a if the word be very pleasant to him .
`` Yes , it 's late , and I 'm so tired . ''
Jo 's voice be more pathetic than she know .
For now the sun seem to have go in as suddenly a it come out , and the world grow muddy and miserable again , and for the first time she discover that her foot be cold , her head ache , and that her heart be cold than the former , fuller of pain than the latter .
Mr. Bhaer be go away , he only care for her a a friend , it be all a mistake , and the sooner it be over the good .
With this idea in her head , she hail an approach omnibus with such a hasty gesture that the daisy fly out of the pot and be badly damage .
`` This be not our omniboos , '' say the Professor , wave the loaded vehicle away , and stop to pick up the poor little flower .
`` I beg your pardon .
I do n't see the name distinctly .
Never mind , I can walk .
I 'm use to plod in the mud , '' return Jo , wink hard , because she would have die rather than openly wipe her eye .
Mr. Bhaer saw the drop on her cheek , though she turn her head away .
The sight seem to touch him very much , for suddenly stoop down , he ask in a tone that mean a great deal , `` Heart 's dear , why do you cry ? ''
Now , if Jo have not be new to this sort of thing she would have say she be n't cry , have a cold in her head , or tell any other feminine fib proper to the occasion .
Instead of which , that undignified creature answer , with an irrepressible sob , `` Because you be go away . ''
`` Ach , mein Gott , that be so good ! ''
cried Mr. Bhaer , manage to clasp his hand in spite of the umbrella and the bundle , `` Jo , I haf nothing but much love to gif you .
I come to see if you could care for it , and I wait to be sure that I be something more than a friend .
Am I ?
Can you make a little place in your heart for old Fritz ? ''
he add , all in one breath .
`` Oh , yes ! ''
say Jo , and he be quite satisfied , for she fold both hand over his arm , and look up at him with an expression that plainly show how happy she would be to walk through life beside him , even though she have no good shelter than the old umbrella , if he carry it .
It be certainly propose under difficulty , for even if he have desire to do so , Mr. Bhaer could not go down upon his knee , on account of the mud .
Neither could he offer Jo his hand , except figuratively , for both be full .
Much less could he indulge in tender remonstration in the open street , though he be near it .
So the only way in which he could express his rapture be to look at her , with an expression which glorify his face to such a degree that there actually seem to be little rainbow in the drop that sparkle on his beard .
If he have not love Jo very much , I do n't think he could have do it then , for she look far from lovely , with her skirt in a deplorable state , her rubber boot splash to the ankle , and her bonnet a ruin .
Fortunately , Mr. Bhaer consider her the most beautiful woman living , and she find him more `` Jove-like '' than ever , though his hatbrim be quite limp with the little rill trickle thence upon his shoulder -LRB- for he hold the umbrella all over Jo -RRB- , and every finger of his glove need mending .
Passers-by probably think them a pair of harmless lunatic , for they entirely forget to hail a bus , and stroll leisurely along , oblivious of deepen dusk and fog .
Little they care what anybody think , for they be enjoy the happy hour that seldom come but once in any life , the magical moment which bestow youth on the old , beauty on the plain , wealth on the poor , and give human hearts a foretaste of heaven .
The Professor look a if he have conquer a kingdom , and the world have nothing more to offer him in the way of bliss .
While Jo trudge beside him , feel a if her place have always be there , and wonder how she ever could have choose any other lot .
Of course , she be the first to speak -- intelligibly , I mean , for the emotional remark which follow her impetuous `` Oh , yes ! ''
be not of a coherent or reportable character .
`` Friedrich , why do n't you ... '' `` Ah , heaven , she gifs me the name that no one speak since Minna die ! ''
cry the Professor , pause in a puddle to regard her with grateful delight .
`` I always call you so to myself -- I forget , but I wo n't unless you like it . ''
`` Like it ?
It be more sweet to me than I can tell .
Say ` thou ' , also , and I shall say your language be almost as beautiful a mine . ''
`` Is n't ` thou ' a little sentimental ? ''
ask Jo , privately think it a lovely monosyllable .
`` Sentimental ?
Yes .
Thank Gott , we Germans believe in sentiment , and keep ourselves young mit it .
Your English ` you ' be so cold , say ` thou ' , heart 's dear , it mean so much to me , '' plead Mr. Bhaer , more like a romantic student than a grave professor .
`` Well , then , why do n't thou tell me all this sooner ? ''
ask Jo bashfully .
`` Now I shall haf to show thee all my heart , and I so gladly will , because thou must take care of it hereafter .
See , then , my Jo -- ah , the dear , funny little name -- I have a wish to tell something the day I say goodbye in New York , but I think the handsome friend be betroth to thee , and so I speak not .
Wouldst thou have say ` Yes ' , then , if I have speak ? ''
`` I do n't know .
I 'm afraid not , for I do n't have any heart just then . ''
`` Prut !
That I do not believe .
It be asleep till the fairy prince come through the wood , and wake it up .
Ah , well , ` Die erste Liebe ist die beste ' , but that I should not expect . ''
`` Yes , the first love be the best , but be so contented , for I never have another .
Teddy be only a boy , and soon get over his little fancy , '' say Jo , anxious to correct the Professor 's mistake .
`` Good !
Then I shall rest happy , and be sure that thou givest me all .
I haf wait so long , I be grown selfish , a thou wilt find , Professorin . ''
`` I like that , '' cry Jo , delight with her new name .
`` Now tell me what bring you , at last , just when I want you ? ''
`` This , '' and Mr. Bhaer take a little worn paper out of his waistcoat pocket .
Jo unfold it , and look much abash , for it be one of her own contribution to a paper that pay for poetry , which account for her send it an occasional attempt .
`` How could that bring you ? ''
she ask , wonder what he mean .
`` I find it by chance .
I know it by the name and the initial , and in it there be one little verse that seem to call me .
Read and find him .
I will see that you go not in the wet . ''
IN THE GARRET Four little chest all in a row , Dim with dust , and wear by time , All fashion and fill , long ago , By child now in their prime .
Four little key hang side by side , With faded ribbon , brave and gay When fasten there , with childish pride , Long ago , on a rainy day .
Four little names , one on each lid , Carved out by a boyish hand , And underneath there lieth hid Histories of the happy band Once play here , and pause oft To hear the sweet refrain , That come and go on the roof aloft , In the fall summer rain .
`` Meg '' on the first lid , smooth and fair .
I look in with loving eye , For fold here , with well-known care , A goodly gather lie , The record of a peaceful life -- Gifts to gentle child and girl , A bridal gown , line to a wife , A tiny shoe , a baby curl .
No toy in this first chest remain , For all be carry away , In their old age , to join again In another small Meg 's play .
Ah , happy mother !
Well I know You hear , like a sweet refrain , Lullabies ever soft and low In the fall summer rain .
`` Jo '' on the next lid , scratch and wear , And within a motley store Of headless doll , of schoolbook tear , Birds and beast that speak no more , Spoils bring home from the fairy ground Only trod by youthful foot , Dreams of a future never find , Memories of a past still sweet , Half-writ poem , story wild , April letter , warm and cold , Diaries of a wilful child , Hints of a woman early old , A woman in a lonely home , Hearing , like a sad refrain -- `` Be worthy , love , and love will come , '' In the fall summer rain .
My Beth !
the dust be always sweep From the lid that bear your name , As if by love eye that weep , By careful hand that often come .
Death canonize for u one saint , Ever less human than divine , And still we lay , with tender plaint , Relics in this household shrine -- The silver bell , so seldom rung , The little cap which last she wear , The fair , dead Catherine that hung By angel borne above her door .
The song she sing , without lament , In her prison-house of pain , Forever be they sweetly blent With the fall summer rain .
Upon the last lid 's polished field -- Legend now both fair and true A gallant knight bear on his shield , `` Amy '' in letter gold and blue .
Within lie snood that bind her hair , Slippers that have dance their last , Faded flower lay by with care , Fans whose airy toil be past , Gay valentine , all ardent flame , Trifles that have bear their part In girlish hope and fear and shame , The record of a maiden heart Now learn fairer , truer spell , Hearing , like a blithe refrain , The silver sound of bridal bell In the fall summer rain .
Four little chest all in a row , Dim with dust , and wear by time , Four woman , teach by weal and woe To love and labor in their prime .
Four sister , part for an hour , None lose , one only go before , Made by love 's immortal power , Nearest and dear evermore .
Oh , when these hidden store of ours Lie open to the Father 's sight , May they be rich in golden hour , Deeds that show fairer for the light , Lives whose brave music long shall ring , Like a spirit-stirring strain , Souls that shall gladly soar and sing In the long sunshine after rain .
`` It 's very bad poetry , but I felt it when I write it , one day when I be very lonely , and have a good cry on a rag bag .
I never think it would go where it could tell tale , '' say Jo , tear up the verse the Professor have treasure so long .
`` Let it go , it have do it duty , and I will haf a fresh one when I read all the brown book in which she keep her little secret , '' say Mr. Bhaer with a smile a he watch the fragment fly away on the wind .
`` Yes , '' he add earnestly , `` I read that , and I think to myself , She have a sorrow , she be lonely , she would find comfort in true love .
I haf a heart full , full for her .
Shall I not go and say , ` If this be not too poor a thing to gif for what I shall hope to receive , take it in Gott 's name ? ' ''
`` And so you come to find that it be not too poor , but the one precious thing I need , '' whisper Jo .
`` I have no courage to think that at first , heavenly kind a be your welcome to me .
But soon I begin to hope , and then I say , ' I will haf her if I die for it , ' and so I will ! ''
cried Mr. Bhaer , with a defiant nod , a if the wall of mist closing round them be barrier which he be to surmount or valiantly knock down .
Jo think that be splendid , and resolve to be worthy of her knight , though he do not come prancing on a charger in gorgeous array .
`` What make you stay away so long ? ''
she ask presently , find it so pleasant to ask confidential question and get delightful answer that she could not keep silent .
`` It be not easy , but I could not find the heart to take you from that so happy home until I could haf a prospect of one to gif you , after much time , perhaps , and hard work .
How could I ask you to gif up so much for a poor old fellow , who have no fortune but a little learning ? ''
`` I 'm glad you be poor .
I could n't bear a rich husband , '' say Jo decidedly , add in a soft tone , `` Do n't fear poverty .
I 've know it long enough to lose my dread and be happy work for those I love , and do n't call yourself old -- forty be the prime of life .
I could n't help love you if you be seventy ! ''
The Professor find that so touch that he would have be glad of his handkerchief , if he could have get at it .
As he could n't , Jo wipe his eye for him , and say , laugh , a she take away a bundle or two ... `` I may be strong-minded , but no one can say I 'm out of my sphere now , for woman 's special mission be suppose to be dry tear and bearing burden .
I 'm to carry my share , Friedrich , and help to earn the home .
Make up your mind to that , or I 'll never go , '' she add resolutely , a he try to reclaim his load .
`` We shall see .
Haf you patience to wait a long time , Jo ?
I must go away and do my work alone .
I must help my boy first , because , even for you , I may not break my word to Minna .
Can you forgif that , and be happy while we hope and wait ? ''
`` Yes , I know I can , for we love one another , and that make all the rest easy to bear .
I have my duty , also , and my work .
I could n't enjoy myself if I neglect them even for you , so there 's no need of hurry or impatience .
You can do your part out West , I can do mine here , and both be happy hop for the best , and leave the future to be a God will . ''
`` Ah !
Thou gifest me such hope and courage , and I haf nothing to gif back but a full heart and these empty hand , '' cry the Professor , quite overcome .
Jo never , never would learn to be proper , for when he say that a they stand upon the step , she just put both hand into his , whisper tenderly , `` Not empty now , '' and stoop down , kiss her Friedrich under the umbrella .
It be dreadful , but she would have do it if the flock of draggle-tailed sparrow on the hedge have be human being , for she be very far go indeed , and quite regardless of everything but her own happiness .
Though it come in such a very simple guise , that be the crowning moment of both their life , when , turn from the night and storm and loneliness to the household light and warmth and peace wait to receive them , with a glad `` Welcome home ! ''
Jo lead her lover in , and shut the door .
CHAPTER FORTY-SEVEN HARVEST TIME For a year Jo and her Professor worked and wait , hop and love , meet occasionally , and write such voluminous letter that the rise in the price of paper be account for , Laurie say .
The second year begin rather soberly , for their prospect do not brighten , and Aunt March die suddenly .
But when their first sorrow be over -- for they love the old lady in spite of her sharp tongue -- they find they have cause for rejoicing , for she have leave Plumfield to Jo , which make all sort of joyful thing possible .
`` It 's a fine old place , and will bring a handsome sum , for of course you intend to sell it , '' say Laurie , a they be all talk the matter over some week later .
`` No , I do n't , '' be Jo 's decide answer , a she pet the fat poodle , whom she have adopt , out of respect to his former mistress .
`` You do n't mean to live there ? ''
`` Yes , I do . ''
`` But , my dear girl , it 's an immense house , and will take a power of money to keep it in order .
The garden and orchard alone need two or three men , and farming be n't in Bhaer 's line , I take it . ''
`` He 'll try his hand at it there , if I propose it . ''
`` And you expect to live on the produce of the place ?
Well , that sound paradisiacal , but you 'll find it desperate hard work . ''
`` The crop we be go to raise be a profitable one , '' and Jo laugh .
`` Of what be this fine crop to consist , ma'am ? ''
`` Boys .
I want to open a school for little lad -- a good , happy , homelike school , with me to take care of them and Fritz to teach them . ''
`` That 's a truly Joian plan for you !
Is n't that just like her ? ''
cry Laurie , appeal to the family , who look a much surprise a he .
`` I like it , '' say Mrs. March decidedly .
`` So do I , '' add her husband , who welcome the thought of a chance for try the Socratic method of education on modern youth .
`` It will be an immense care for Jo , '' say Meg , stroke the head of her one all-absorbing son .
`` Jo can do it , and be happy in it .
It 's a splendid idea .
Tell u all about it , '' cry Mr. Laurence , who have be long to lend the lover a hand , but know that they would refuse his help .
`` I know you 'd stand by me , sir .
Amy do too -- I see it in her eye , though she prudently wait to turn it over in her mind before she speak .
Now , my dear people , '' continue Jo earnestly , `` just understand that this be n't a new idea of mine , but a long cherished plan .
Before my Fritz come , I use to think how , when I 'd make my fortune , and no one need me at home , I 'd hire a big house , and pick up some poor , forlorn little lad who have n't any mother , and take care of them , and make life jolly for them before it be too late .
I see so many go to ruin for want of help at the right minute , I love so to do anything for them , I seem to feel their want , and sympathize with their trouble , and oh , I should so like to be a mother to them ! ''
Mrs. March hold out her hand to Jo , who take it , smile , with tear in her eye , and go on in the old enthusiastic way , which they have not see for a long while .
`` I tell my plan to Fritz once , and he say it be just what he would like , and agree to try it when we get rich .
Bless his dear heart , he 's be do it all his life -- help poor boy , I mean , not get rich , that he 'll never be .
Money do n't stay in his pocket long enough to lay up any .
But now , thanks to my good old aunt , who love me good than I ever deserve , I 'm rich , at least I feel so , and we can live at Plumfield perfectly well , if we have a flourishing school .
It 's just the place for boy , the house be big , and the furniture strong and plain .
There 's plenty of room for dozen inside , and splendid ground outside .
They could help in the garden and orchard .
Such work be healthy , be n't it , sir ?
Then Fritz could train and teach in his own way , and Father will help him .
I can fee and nurse and pet and scold them , and Mother will be my stand-by .
I 've always long for lot of boy , and never have enough , now I can fill the house full and revel in the little dear to my heart 's content .
Think what luxury -- Plumfield my own , and a wilderness of boy to enjoy it with me . ''
As Jo wave her hand and give a sigh of rapture , the family go off into a gale of merriment , and Mr. Laurence laugh till they think he 'd have an apoplectic fit .
`` I do n't see anything funny , '' she say gravely , when she could be hear .
`` Nothing could be more natural and proper than for my Professor to open a school , and for me to prefer to reside in my own estate . ''
`` She be put on air already , '' say Laurie , who regard the idea in the light of a capital joke .
`` But may I inquire how you intend to support the establishment ?
If all the pupil be little ragamuffin , I 'm afraid your crop wo n't be profitable in a worldly sense , Mrs. Bhaer . ''
`` Now do n't be a wet-blanket , Teddy .
Of course I shall have rich pupil , also -- perhaps begin with such altogether .
Then , when I 've get a start , I can take in a ragamuffin or two , just for a relish .
Rich people 's child often need care and comfort , as well a poor .
I 've see unfortunate little creature leave to servant , or backward one push forward , when it 's real cruelty .
Some be naughty through mismanagment or neglect , and some lose their mother .
Besides , the best have to get through the hobbledehoy age , and that 's the very time they need most patience and kindness .
People laugh at them , and hustle them about , try to keep them out of sight , and expect them to turn all at once from pretty child into fine young men .
They do n't complain much -- plucky little soul -- but they feel it .
I 've be through something of it , and I know all about it .
I 've a special interest in such young bear , and like to show them that I see the warm , honest , well-meaning boy ' heart , in spite of the clumsy arm and leg and the topsy-turvy head .
I 've have experience , too , for have n't I bring up one boy to be a pride and honor to his family ? ''
`` I 'll testify that you try to do it , '' say Laurie with a grateful look .
`` And I 've succeed beyond my hope , for here you be , a steady , sensible businessman , do heap of good with your money , and lay up the blessing of the poor , instead of dollar .
But you be not merely a businessman , you love good and beautiful thing , enjoy them yourself , and let others go half , a you always do in the old time .
I be proud of you , Teddy , for you get well every year , and everyone feel it , though you wo n't let them say so .
Yes , and when I have my flock , I 'll just point to you , and say ` There 's your model , my lad ' . ''
Poor Laurie do n't know where to look , for , man though he be , something of the old bashfulness come over him a this burst of praise make all face turn approvingly upon him .
`` I say , Jo , that 's rather too much , '' he begin , just in his old boyish way .
`` You have all do more for me than I can ever thank you for , except by do my best not to disappoint you .
You have rather cast me off lately , Jo , but I 've have the best of help , nevertheless .
So , if I 've get on at all , you may thank these two for it , '' and he lay one hand gently on his grandfather 's head , and the other on Amy 's golden one , for the three be never far apart .
`` I do think that family be the most beautiful thing in all the world ! ''
burst out Jo , who be in an unusually up-lifted frame of mind just then .
`` When I have one of my own , I hope it will be as happy a the three I know and love the best .
If John and my Fritz be only here , it would be quite a little heaven on earth , '' she add more quietly .
And that night when she go to her room after a blissful evening of family counsel , hope , and plan , her heart be so full of happiness that she could only calm it by kneel beside the empty bed always near her own , and think tender thought of Beth .
It be a very astonishing year altogether , for thing seem to happen in an unusually rapid and delightful manner .
Almost before she know where she be , Jo find herself married and settle at Plumfield .
Then a family of six or seven boy spring up like mushroom , and flourish surprisingly , poor boy as well a rich , for Mr. Laurence be continually find some touching case of destitution , and beg the Bhaers to take pity on the child , and he would gladly pay a trifle for it support .
In this way , the sly old gentleman get round proud Jo , and furnish her with the style of boy in which she most delighted .
Of course it be uphill work at first , and Jo make queer mistake , but the wise Professor steer her safely into calmer water , and the most rampant ragamuffin be conquer in the end .
How Jo do enjoy her ` wilderness of boy ' , and how poor , dear Aunt March would have lament have she be there to see the sacred precinct of prim , well-ordered Plumfield overrun with Toms , Dicks , and Harrys !
There be a sort of poetic justice about it , after all , for the old lady have be the terror of the boy for mile around , and now the exile feast freely on forbidden plum , kick up the gravel with profane boot unreproved , and play cricket in the big field where the irritable ` cow with a crumpled horn ' use to invite rash youth to come and be toss .
It become a sort of boy ' paradise , and Laurie suggest that it should be call the ` Bhaer-garten ' , a a compliment to it master and appropriate to it inhabitant .
It never be a fashionable school , and the Professor do not lay up a fortune , but it be just what Jo intend it to be -- ' a happy , homelike place for boy , who need teaching , care , and kindness ' .
Every room in the big house be soon full .
Every little plot in the garden soon have it owner .
A regular menagerie appear in barn and shed , for pet animal be allow .
And three time a day , Jo smile at her Fritz from the head of a long table line on either side with row of happy young face , which all turn to her with affectionate eye , confide word , and grateful heart , full of love for ` Mother Bhaer ' .
She have boy enough now , and do not tire of them , though they be not angel , by any mean , and some of them cause both Professor and Professorin much trouble and anxiety .
But her faith in the good spot which exist in the heart of the naughty , saucy , most tantalizing little ragamuffin give her patience , skill , and in time success , for no mortal boy could hold out long with Father Bhaer shin on him as benevolently a the sun , and Mother Bhaer forgive him seventy time seven .
Very precious to Jo be the friendship of the lad , their penitent sniff and whisper after wrongdoing , their droll or touch little confidence , their pleasant enthusiasm , hope , and plan , even their misfortune , for they only endear them to her all the more .
There be slow boy and bashful boy , feeble boy and riotous boy , boys that lisp and boy that stutter , one or two lame one , and a merry little quadroon , who could not be take in elsewhere , but who be welcome to the ` Bhaer-garten ' , though some people predict that his admission would ruin the school .
Yes , Jo be a very happy woman there , in spite of hard work , much anxiety , and a perpetual racket .
She enjoy it heartily and find the applause of her boy more satisfying than any praise of the world , for now she tell no story except to her flock of enthusiastic believer and admirer .
As the year go on , two little lad of her own come to increase her happiness -- Rob , name for Grandpa , and Teddy , a happy-go-lucky baby , who seem to have inherit his papa 's sunshiny temper as well a his mother 's lively spirit .
How they ever grow up alive in that whirlpool of boy be a mystery to their grandma and aunt , but they flourish like dandelion in spring , and their rough nurse love and serve them well .
There be a great many holiday at Plumfield , and one of the most delightful be the yearly apple-picking .
For then the Marches , Laurences , Brookes and Bhaers turn out in full force and make a day of it .
Five year after Jo 's wedding , one of these fruitful festival occur , a mellow October day , when the air be full of an exhilarating freshness which make the spirit rise and the blood dance healthily in the vein .
The old orchard wear it holiday attire .
Goldenrod and aster fringe the mossy wall .
Grasshoppers skip briskly in the sere grass , and cricket chirp like fairy piper at a feast .
Squirrels be busy with their small harvesting .
Birds twitter their adieu from the alder in the lane , and every tree stand ready to send down it shower of red or yellow apple at the first shake .
Everybody be there .
Everybody laugh and sang , climb up and tumble down .
Everybody declare that there never have be such a perfect day or such a jolly set to enjoy it , and everyone give themselves up to the simple pleasure of the hour as freely a if there be no such thing a care or sorrow in the world .
Mr. March stroll placidly about , quote Tusser , Cowley , and Columella to Mr. Laurence , while enjoy ... The gentle apple 's winey juice .
The Professor charge up and down the green aisle like a stout Teutonic knight , with a pole for a lance , lead on the boy , who make a hook and ladder company of themselves , and perform wonder in the way of ground and lofty tumbling .
Laurie devote himself to the little one , ride his small daughter in a bushel-basket , take Daisy up among the bird 's nest , and keep adventurous Rob from break his neck .
Mrs. March and Meg sit among the apple pile like a pair of Pomonas , sort the contribution that keep pour in , while Amy with a beautiful motherly expression in her face sketch the various group , and watch over one pale lad , who sit adore her with his little crutch beside him .
Jo be in her element that day , and rush about , with her gown pin up , and her hat anywhere but on her head , and her baby tuck under her arm , ready for any lively adventure which might turn up .
Little Teddy bore a charmed life , for nothing ever happen to him , and Jo never felt any anxiety when he be whisk up into a tree by one lad , gallop off on the back of another , or supply with sour russet by his indulgent papa , who labor under the Germanic delusion that baby could digest anything , from pickle cabbage to button , nail , and their own small shoe .
She know that little Ted would turn up again in time , safe and rosy , dirty and serene , and she always receive him back with a hearty welcome , for Jo love her baby tenderly .
At four o'clock a lull take place , and basket remain empty , while the apple picker rest and compare rent and bruise .
Then Jo and Meg , with a detachment of the big boy , set forth the supper on the grass , for an out-of-door tea be always the crown joy of the day .
The land literally flow with milk and honey on such occasion , for the lad be not require to sit at table , but allow to partake of refreshment a they like -- freedom be the sauce best beloved by the boyish soul .
They avail themselves of the rare privilege to the full extent , for some try the please experiment of drink milk while stand on their head , others lend a charm to leapfrog by eat pie in the pause of the game , cooky be sown broadcast over the field , and apple turnover roost in the tree like a new style of bird .
The little girl have a private tea party , and Ted rove among the edible at his own sweet will .
When no one could eat any more , the Professor propose the first regular toast , which be always drink at such time -- `` Aunt March , God bless her ! ''
A toast heartily give by the good man , who never forget how much he owe her , and quietly drink by the boy , who have be teach to keep her memory green .
`` Now , Grandma 's sixtieth birthday !
Long life to her , with three time three ! ''
That be give with a will , a you may well believe , and the cheering once begin , it be hard to stop it .
Everybody 's health be propose , from Mr. Laurence , who be consider their special patron , to the astonished guinea pig , who have stray from it proper sphere in search of it young master .
Demi , a the old grandchild , then present the queen of the day with various gift , so numerous that they be transport to the festive scene in a wheelbarrow .
Funny present , some of them , but what would have be defect to other eye be ornament to Grandma 's -- for the child 's gift be all their own .
Every stitch Daisy 's patient little finger have put into the handkerchief she hem be good than embroidery to Mrs. March .
Demi 's miracle of mechanical skill , though the cover would n't shut , Rob 's footstool have a wiggle in it uneven leg that she declare be soothe , and no page of the costly book Amy 's child give her be so fair a that on which appear in tipsy capital , the word -- `` To dear Grandma , from her little Beth . ''
During the ceremony the boy have mysteriously disappear , and when Mrs. March have try to thank her child , and break down , while Teddy wipe her eye on his pinafore , the Professor suddenly begin to sing .
Then , from above him , voice after voice take up the word , and from tree to tree echoed the music of the unseen choir , a the boy sing with all their heart the little song that Jo have write , Laurie set to music , and the Professor train his lad to give with the best effect .
This be something altogether new , and it prove a grand success , for Mrs. March could n't get over her surprise , and insist on shake hand with every one of the featherless bird , from tall Franz and Emil to the little quadroon , who have the sweet voice of all .
After this , the boy disperse for a final lark , leave Mrs. March and her daughter under the festival tree .
`` I do n't think I ever ought to call myself ` unlucky Jo ' again , when my great wish have be so beautifully gratify , '' say Mrs. Bhaer , take Teddy 's little fist out of the milk pitcher , in which he be rapturously churn .
`` And yet your life be very different from the one you picture so long ago .
Do you remember our castle in the air ? ''
ask Amy , smile a she watch Laurie and John play cricket with the boy .
`` Dear fellows !
It do my heart good to see them forget business and frolic for a day , '' answer Jo , who now speak in a maternal way of all mankind .
`` Yes , I remember , but the life I want then seem selfish , lonely , and cold to me now .
I have n't give up the hope that I may write a good book yet , but I can wait , and I 'm sure it will be all the good for such experience and illustration a these , '' and Jo point from the lively lad in the distance to her father , lean on the Professor 's arm , a they walk to and fro in the sunshine , deep in one of the conversation which both enjoy so much , and then to her mother , sit enthrone among her daughter , with their child in her lap and at her foot , a if all find help and happiness in the face which never could grow old to them .
`` My castle be the most nearly realize of all .
I ask for splendid thing , to be sure , but in my heart I know I should be satisfy , if I have a little home , and John , and some dear child like these .
I 've get them all , thank God , and be the happy woman in the world , '' and Meg lay her hand on her tall boy 's head , with a face full of tender and devout content .
`` My castle be very different from what I plan , but I would not alter it , though , like Jo , I do n't relinquish all my artistic hope , or confine myself to help others fulfill their dream of beauty .
I 've begin to model a figure of baby , and Laurie say it be the best thing I 've ever do .
I think so , myself , and mean to do it in marble , so that , whatever happen , I may at least keep the image of my little angel . ''
As Amy speak , a great tear drop on the golden hair of the sleep child in her arm , for her one well-beloved daughter be a frail little creature and the dread of lose her be the shadow over Amy 's sunshine .
This cross be do much for both father and mother , for one love and sorrow bound them closely together .
Amy 's nature be grow sweeter , deep , and more tender .
Laurie be grow more serious , strong , and firm , and both be learn that beauty , youth , good fortune , even love itself , can not keep care and pain , loss and sorrow , from the most bless for ... Into each life some rain must fall , Some day must be dark and sad and dreary .
`` She be grow well , I be sure of it , my dear .
Do n't despond , but hope and keep happy , '' say Mrs. March , a tenderhearted Daisy stoop from her knee to lay her rosy cheek against her little cousin 's pale one .
`` I never ought to , while I have you to cheer me up , Marmee , and Laurie to take more than half of every burden , '' reply Amy warmly .
`` He never let me see his anxiety , but be so sweet and patient with me , so devote to Beth , and such a stay and comfort to me always that I ca n't love him enough .
So , in spite of my one cross , I can say with Meg , ` Thank God , I 'm a happy woman . ' ''
`` There 's no need for me to say it , for everyone can see that I 'm far happy than I deserve , '' add Jo , glance from her good husband to her chubby child , tumble on the grass beside her .
`` Fritz be get gray and stout .
I 'm grow as thin a a shadow , and be thirty .
We never shall be rich , and Plumfield may burn up any night , for that incorrigible Tommy Bangs will smoke sweet-fern cigar under the bed-clothes , though he 's set himself afire three time already .
But in spite of these unromantic fact , I have nothing to complain of , and never be so jolly in my life .
Excuse the remark , but live among boy , I ca n't help use their expression now and then . ''
`` Yes , Jo , I think your harvest will be a good one , '' begin Mrs. March , frighten away a big black cricket that be star Teddy out of countenance .
`` Not half so good a yours , Mother .
Here it be , and we never can thank you enough for the patient sowing and reap you have do , '' cry Jo , with the loving impetuosity which she never would outgrow .
`` I hope there will be more wheat and few tare every year , '' say Amy softly .
`` A large sheaf , but I know there 's room in your heart for it , Marmee dear , '' add Meg 's tender voice .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Marjorie's_Three_Gifts.txt.out
MARJORIE 'S THREE GIFTS Marjorie sit on the door-step , shell pea , quite unconscious what a pretty picture she make , with the rose peep at her through the lattice work of the porch , the wind play hide-and-seek in her curly hair , while the sunshine with it silent magic change her fade gingham to a golden gown , and shimmer on the bright tin pan a if it be a silver shield .
Old Rover lay at her foot , the white kitten purr on her shoulder , and friendly robin hop about her in the grass , chirp `` A happy birthday , Marjorie ! ''
But the little maid neither saw nor heard , for her eye be fix on the green pod , and her thought be far away .
She be recall the fairy-tale granny tell her last night , and wish with all her heart that such thing happen nowadays .
For in this story , a a poor girl like herself sit spin before the door , a Brownie come by , and give the child a good-luck penny ; then a fairy pass , and leave a talisman which would keep her always happy ; and last of all , the prince roll up in his chariot , and take her away to reign with him over a lovely kingdom , a a reward for her many kindness to others .
When Marjorie imagine this part of the story , it be impossible to help give one little sigh , and for a minute she forget her work , so busy be she think what beautiful present she would give to all the poor child in her realm when THEY have birthday .
Five impatient young pea take this opportunity to escape from the half-open pod in her hand and skip down the step , to be immediately gobble up by an audacious robin , who give thanks in such a shrill chirp that Marjorie wake up , laugh , and fell to work again .
She be just finishing , when a voice call out from the lane , -- `` Hi , there !
come here a minute , child ! ''
and look up , she saw a little old man in a queer little carriage draw by a fat little pony .
Running down to the gate , Marjorie drop a curtsy , say pleasantly , -- `` What do you wish , sir ? ''
`` Just undo that check-rein for me .
I be lame , and Jack want to drink at your brook , '' answer the old man , nod at her till his spectacle dance on his nose .
Marjorie be rather afraid of the fat pony , who toss his head , whisk his tail , and stamp his foot a if he be of a peppery temper .
But she like to be useful , and just then felt a if there be few thing she could NOT do if she try , because it be her birthday .
So she proudly let down the rein , and when Jack go splash into the brook , she stand on the bridge , wait to check him up again after he have drink his fill of the clear , cool water .
The old gentleman sit in his place , look up at the little girl , who be smile to herself a she watch the blue dragon-flies dance among the fern , a blackbird tilt on the alderboughs , and listen to the babble of the brook .
`` How old be you , child ? ''
ask the old man , a if he rather envy this rosy creature her youth and health .
`` Twelve to-day , sir ; '' and Marjorie stand up straight and tall , a if mindful of her year .
`` Had any present ? ''
ask the old man , peer up with an odd smile .
`` One , sir , -- here it be ; '' and she pull out of her pocket a tin savings-bank in the shape of a desirable family mansion , paint red , with a green door and black chimney .
Proudly display it on the rude railing of the bridge , she add , with a happy face , -- `` Granny give it to me , and all the money in it be go to be mine . ''
`` How much have you get ? ''
ask the old gentleman , who appear to like to sit there in the middle of the brook , while Jack bath his foot and leisurely gurgled and sneeze .
`` Not a penny yet , but I 'm go to earn some , '' answer Marjorie , pat the little bank with an air of resolution pretty to see .
`` How will you do it ? ''
continue the inquisitive old man .
`` Oh , I 'm go to pick berry and dig dandelion , and weed , and drive cow , and do chore .
It be vacation , and I can work all the time , and earn ever so much . ''
`` But vacation be play-time , -- how about that ? ''
`` Why , that sort of work IS play , and I get bit of fun all along .
I always have a good swing when I go for the cow , and pick flower with the dandelion .
Weeding be n't so nice , but berry be very pleasant , and we have good time all together . ''
`` What shall you do with your money when you get it ? ''
`` Oh , lot of thing !
Buy book and clothes for school , and , if I get a great deal , give some to granny .
I 'd love to do that , for she take care of me , and I 'd be so proud to help her ! ''
`` Good little lass ! ''
say the old gentleman , a he put his hand in his pocket .
`` Would you now ? ''
he add , apparently address himself to a large frog who sit upon a stone , look so wise and grandfatherly that it really do seem quite proper to consult him .
At all event , he give his opinion in the most decided manner , for , with a loud croak , he turn an undignified somersault into the brook , splash up the water at a great rate .
`` Well , perhaps it would n't be best on the whole .
Industry be a good teacher , and money can not buy happiness , a I know to my sorrow . ''
The old gentleman still seem to be talk to the frog , and a he speak he take his hand out of his pocket with less in it than he have at first intend .
`` What a very queer person ! ''
think Marjorie , for she have not hear a word , and wonder what he be think about down there .
Jack walk out of the brook just then , and she run to check him up ; not an easy task for little hand , a he prefer to nibble the grass on the bank .
But she do it cleverly , smooth the ruffled mane , and , drop another curtsy , stand aside to let the little carriage pas .
`` Thank you , child -- thank you .
Here be something for your bank , and good luck to it . ''
As he speak , the old man lay a bright gold dollar in her hand , pat the rosy cheek , and vanish in a cloud of dust , leave Marjorie so astonish at the grandeur of the gift , that she stand look at it a if it have be a fortune .
It be to her ; and vision of pink calico gown , new grammar , and fresh hat-ribbons dance through her head in delightful confusion , a her eye rest on the shin coin in her palm .
Then , with a solemn air , she invest her first money by pop it down the chimney of the scarlet mansion , and peep in with one eye to see if it land safely on the ground-floor .
This do , she take a long breath , and look over the railing , to be sure it be not all a dream .
No ; the wheel mark be still there , the brown water be not yet clear , and , if a witness be need , there sit the big frog again , look so like the old gentleman , with his bottle-green coat , speckle trouser , and twinkle eye , that Marjorie burst out laughing , and clap her hand , say aloud , -- `` I 'll play he be the Brownie , and this be the good-luck penny he give me .
Oh , what fun ! ''
and away she skip , rattle the dear new bank like a castanet .
When she have tell granny all about it , she get knife and basket , and go out to dig dandelion ; for the desire to increase her fortune be so strong , she could not rest a minute .
Up and down she go , so busily peer and digging , that she never lift up her eye till something like a great white bird skim by so low she could not help see it .
A pleasant laugh sound behind her a she start up , and , look round , she nearly sit down again in sheer surprise , for there close by be a slender little lady , comfortably establish under a big umbrella .
`` If there WERE any fairy , I 'd be sure that be one , '' think Marjorie , star with all her might , for her mind be still full of the old story ; and curious thing do happen on birthday , a every one know .
It really do seem rather elfish to look up suddenly and see a lovely lady all in white , with shin hair and a wand in her hand , sit under what look very like a large yellow mushroom in the middle of a meadow , where , till now , nothing but cow and grasshopper have be see .
Before Marjorie could decide the question , the pleasant laugh come again , and the stranger say , point to the white thing that be still flutter over the grass like a little cloud , -- `` Would you kindly catch my hat for me , before it blow quite away ? ''
Down go basket and knife , and away run Marjorie , entirely satisfy now that there be no magic about the new-comer ; for if she have be an elf , could n't she have get her hat without any help from a mortal child ?
Presently , however , it do begin to seem a if that hat be bewitch , for it lead the nimble-footed Marjorie such a chase that the cow stop feed to look on in placid wonder ; the grasshopper vainly try to keep up , and every ox-eye daisy do it best to catch the runaway , but fail entirely , for the wind like a game of romp , and have it that day .
As she run , Marjorie hear the lady singing , like the princess in the story of the Goose-Girl , -- `` Blow , breeze , blow !
Let Curdkin 's hat go !
Blow , breeze , blow !
Let him after it go !
O'er hill , dale and rock , Away be it whirled , Till the silvery lock Are all combed and curl . ''
This make her laugh so that she tumble into a clover-bed , and lay there a minute to get her breath .
Just then , a if the playful wind repent of it frolic , the long veil fasten to the hat catch in a blackberry-vine near by , and hold the truant fast till Marjorie secure it .
`` Now come and see what I be do , '' say the lady , when she have thank the child .
Marjorie draw near confidingly , and look down at the wide-spread book before her .
She give a start , and laugh out with surprise and delight ; for there be a lovely picture of her own little home , and her own little self on the door-step , all so delicate , and beautiful , and true , it seem a if do by magic .
`` Oh , how pretty !
There be Rover , and Kitty and the robin , and me !
How could you ever do it , ma'am ? ''
say Marjorie , with a wonder glance at the long paint-brush , which have work what seem a miracle to her childish eye .
`` I 'll show you presently ; but tell me , first , if it look quite right and natural to you .
Children sometimes spy out fault that no one else can see , '' answer the lady , evidently please with the artless praise her work receive .
`` It look just like our house , only more beautiful .
Perhaps that be because I know how shabby it really be .
That moss look lovely on the shingle , but the roof leak .
The porch be break , only the rose hide the place ; and my gown be all faded , though it once be as bright a you have make it .
I wish the house and everything would stay pretty forever , a they will in the picture . ''
While Marjorie speak , the lady have be add more color to the sketch , and when she look up , something warmer and brighter than sunshine shone in her face , a she say , so cheerily , it be like a bird 's song to hear her , -- `` It ca n't be summer always , dear , but we can make fair weather for ourselves if we try .
The moss , the rose , and soft shadow show the little house and the little girl at their best , and that be what we all should do ; for it be amazing how lovely common thing become , if one only know how to look at them . ''
`` I wish I do , '' say Marjorie , half to herself , remember how often she be discontent , and how hard it be to get on , sometimes .
`` So do I , '' say the lady , in her happy voice .
`` Just believe that there be a sunny side to everything , and try to find it , and you will be surprise to see how bright the world will seem , and how cheerful you will be able to keep your little self . ''
`` I guess granny have find that out , for she never fret .
I do , but I 'm go to stop it , because I 'm twelve to-day , and that be too old for such thing , '' say Marjorie , recollect the good resolution she have make that morning when she wake .
`` I be twice twelve , and not entirely cure yet ; but I try , and do n't mean to wear blue spectacle if I can help it , '' answer the lady , laugh so blithely that Marjorie be sure she would not have to try much longer .
`` Birthdays be make for present , and I should like to give you one .
Would it please you to have this little picture ? ''
she add , lift it out of the book .
`` Truly my own ?
Oh , yes , indeed ! ''
cry Marjorie , color with pleasure , for she have never own so beautiful a thing before .
`` Then you shall have it , dear .
Hang it where you can see it often , and when you look , remember that it be the sunny side of home , and help to keep it so . ''
Marjorie have nothing but a kiss to offer by way of thanks , a the lovely sketch be put into her hand ; but the giver seem quite satisfied , for it be a very grateful little kiss .
Then the child take up her basket and go away , not dance and sing now , but slowly and silently ; for this gift make her thoughtful as well a glad .
As she climb the wall , she look back to nod good-by to the pretty lady ; but the meadow be empty , and all she saw be the grass blowing in the wind .
`` Now , deary , run out and play , for birthday come but once a year , and we must make them as merry a we can , '' say granny , a she settle herself for her afternoon nap , when the Saturday cleaning be all do , and the little house as neat a wax .
So Marjorie put on a white apron in honor of the occasion , and , take Kitty in her arm , go out to enjoy herself .
Three swing on the gate seem to be a good way of begin the festivity ; but she only get two , for when the gate creak back the second time , it stay shut , and Marjorie hung over the picket , arrest by the sound of music .
`` It 's soldier , '' she say , a the fife and drum draw nearer , and flag be see wave over the barberry-bushes at the corner .
`` No ; it 's a picnic , '' she add in a moment ; for she saw hat with wreath about them bob up and down , a a gayly-trimmed hay-cart full of child come rumble down the lane .
`` What a nice time they be go to have ! ''
think Marjorie , sadly contrast that merry-making with the quiet party she be have all by herself .
Suddenly her face shone , and Kitty be wave over her head like a banner , a she fly out of the gate , cry , rapturously , -- `` It 's Billy !
and I know he 's come for me ! ''
It certainly WAS Billy , proudly drive the old horse , and beam at his little friend from the bower of flag and chestnut-boughs , where he sit in state , with a crown of daisy on his sailor-hat and a spray of bloom sweetbrier in his hand .
Waving his rustic sceptre , he lead off the shout of `` Happy birthday , Marjorie ! ''
which be set up a the wagon stop at the gate , and the green boughs suddenly blossom with familiar face , all smile on the little damsel , who stand in the lane quite overpower with delight .
`` It 's a s ` prise party ! ''
cry one small lad , tumble out behind .
`` We be go up the mountain to have fun ! ''
add a chorus of voice , a a dozen hand beckon wildly .
`` We get it up on purpose for you , so tie your hat and come away , '' say a pretty girl , lean down to kiss Marjorie , who have drop Kitty , and stand ready for any splendid enterprise .
A word to granny , and away go the happy child , sit up beside Billy , under the flag that wave over a happy load than any royal chariot ever bore .
It would be vain to try and tell all the play and pleasure of happy child on a Saturday afternoon , but we may briefly say that Marjorie find a mossy stone all ready for her throne , and Billy crown her with a garland like his own .
That a fine banquet be spread , and eaten with a relish many a Lord Mayor 's feast have lack .
Then how the whole court dance and play together afterward !
The lord climb tree and turn somersault , the lady gather flower and tell secret under the sweetfern-bushes , the queen lose her shoe jumping over the waterfall , and the king paddle into the pool below and rescue it .
A happy little kingdom , full of summer sunshine , innocent delight , and loyal heart ; for love rule , and the only war that disturb the peaceful land be wag by the mosquito a night come on .
Marjorie stand on her throne watch the sunset while her maid of honor pack up the remains of the banquet , and her knight prepare the chariot .
All the sky be gold and purple , all the world bath in a soft , red light , and the little girl be very happy a she look down at the subject who have serve her so faithfully that day .
`` Have you have a good time , Marjy ? ''
ask King William ; who stand below , with his royal nose on a level with her majesty 's two dusty little shoe .
`` Oh , Billy , it have be just splendid !
But I do n't see why you should all be so kind to me , '' answer Marjorie , with such a look of innocent wonder , that Billy laugh to see it .
`` Because you be so sweet and good , we ca n't help love you , -- that 's why , '' he say , a if this simple fact be reason enough .
`` I 'm go to be the best girl that ever be , and love everybody in the world , '' cry the child , stretch out her arm a if ready , in the fulness of her happy heart , to embrace all creation .
`` Do n't turn into an angel and fly away just yet , but come home , or granny will never lend you to u any more . ''
With that , Billy jump her down , and away they run , to ride gayly back through the twilight , sing like a flock of nightingale .
As she go to bed that night , Marjorie look at the red bank , the pretty picture , and the daisy crown , say to herself , -- `` It have be a VERY nice birthday , and I be something like the girl in the story , after all , for the old man give me a good-luck penny , the kind lady tell me how to keep happy , and Billy come for me like the prince .
The girl do n't go back to the poor house again , but I 'm glad I do , for MY granny be n't a cross one , and my little home be the dearest in the world . ''
Then she tie her night-cap , say her prayer , and fell asleep ; but the moon , look in to kiss the blooming face upon the pillow , know that three good spirit have come to help little Marjorie from that day forth , and their name be Industry , Cheerfulness , and Love .
ROSES AND FORGET-ME-NOTS I . ROSES It be a cold November storm , and everything look forlorn .
Even the pert sparrow be draggle-tailed and too much out of spirit to fight for crumb with the fat pigeon who trip through the mud with their little red boot a if in haste to get back to their cosy home in the dove-cot .
But the most forlorn creature out that day be a small errand girl , with a bonnet-box on each arm , and both hand struggle to hold a big broken umbrella .
A pair of worn-out boot let in the wet upon her tired foot ; a thin cotton dress and an old shawl poorly protect her from the storm ; and a faded hood cover her head .
The face that look out from this hood be too pale and anxious for one so young ; and when a sudden gust turn the old umbrella inside out with a crash , despair fell upon poor Lizzie , and she be so miserable she could have sit down in the rain and cry .
But there be no time for tear ; so , drag the dilapidated umbrella along , she spread her shawl over the bonnet-boxes and hurry down the broad street , eager to hide her misfortune from a pretty young girl who stand at a window laughing at her .
She could not find the number of the house where one of the fine hat be to be leave ; and after hunt all down one side of the street , she cross over , and come at last to the very house where the pretty girl live .
She be no long to be see ; and , with a sigh of relief , Lizzie ring the bell , and be tell to wait in the hall while Miss Belle try the hat on .
Glad to rest , she warm her foot , right her umbrella , and then sit look about her with eye quick to see the beauty and the comfort that make the place so homelike and delightful .
A small waiting-room open from the hall , and in it stand many blooming plant , whose fragrance attract Lizzie as irresistibly a if she have be a butterfly or bee .
Slipping in , she stand enjoy the lovely color , sweet odor , and delicate shape of these household spirit ; for Lizzie love flower passionately ; and just then they possess a peculiar charm for her .
One particularly captivate little rise win her heart , and make her long for it with a longing that become a temptation too strong to resist .
It be so perfect ; so like a rosy face smile out from the green leaf , that Lizzie could NOT keep her hand off it , and have smelt , touch , and kiss it , she suddenly break the stem and hid it in her pocket .
Then , frighten at what she have do , she creep back to her place in the hall , and sit there , burden with remorse .
A servant come just then to lead her upstairs ; for Miss Belle wish the hat alter , and must give direction .
With her heart in a flutter , and pinker rose in her cheek than the one in her pocket , Lizzie follow to a handsome room , where a pretty girl stand before a long mirror with the hat in her hand .
`` Tell Madame Tifany that I do n't like it at all , for she have n't put in the blue plume mamma order ; and I wo n't have rose-buds , they be so common , '' say the young lady , in a dissatisfied tone , a she twirl the hat about .
`` Yes , miss , '' be all Lizzie could say ; for SHE consider that hat the lovely thing a girl could possibly own .
`` You have good ask your mamma about it , Miss Belle , before you give any order .
She will be up in a few moment , and the girl can wait , '' put in a maid , who be sew in the ante-room .
`` I suppose I must ; but I WO N'T have rose , '' answer Belle , crossly .
Then she glance at Lizzie , and say more gently , `` You look very cold ; come and sit by the fire while you wait . ''
`` I 'm afraid I 'll wet the pretty rug , miss ; my foot be sop , '' say Lizzie , gratefully , but timidly .
`` So they be !
Why do n't you wear rubber boot ? ''
`` I have n't get any . ''
`` I 'll give you mine , then , for I hate them ; and a I never go out in wet weather , they be of no earthly use to me .
Marie , bring them here ; I shall be glad to get rid of them , and I 'm sure they 'll be useful to you . ''
`` Oh , thank you , miss !
I 'd like 'em ever so much , for I 'm out in the rain half the time , and get bad cold because my boot be old , '' say Lizzie , smile brightly at the thought of the welcome gift .
`` I should think your mother would get you warm thing , '' begin Belle , who find something rather interesting in the shabby girl , with shy bright eye , and curly hair burst out of the old hood .
`` I have n't get any mother , '' say Lizzie , with a pathetic glance at her poor clothes .
`` I 'm so sorry !
Have you brother and sister ? ''
ask Belle , hop to find something pleasant to talk about ; for she be a kind little soul .
`` No , miss ; I 've get no folk at all . ''
`` Oh , dear ; how sad !
Why , who take care of you ? ''
cry Belle , look quite distress .
`` No one ; I take care of myself .
I work for Madame , and she pay me a dollar a week .
I stay with Mrs. Brown , and chore round to pay for my keep .
My dollar do n't get many clothes , so I ca n't be as neat a I 'd like . ''
And the forlorn look come back to poor Lizzie 's face .
Belle say nothing , but sit among the sofa cushion , where she have throw herself , look soberly at this other girl , no old than she be , who take care of herself and be all alone in the world .
It be a new idea to Belle , who be love and pet a an only child be apt to be .
She often saw beggar and pity them , but know very little about their want and live ; so it be like turn a new page in her happy life to be bring so near to poverty a this chance meeting with the milliner 's girl .
`` Are n't you afraid and lonely and unhappy ? ''
she say , slowly , try to understand and put herself in Lizzie 's place .
`` Yes ; but it 's no use .
I ca n't help it , and may be thing will get good by and by , and I 'll have my wish , '' answer Lizzie , more hopefully , because Belle 's pity warm her heart and make her trouble seem light .
`` What be your wish ? ''
ask Belle , hop mamma would n't come just yet , for she be get interested in the stranger .
`` To have a nice little room , and make flower , like a French girl I know .
It 's such pretty work , and she get lot of money , for every one like her flower .
She show me how , sometimes , and I can do leaf first-rate ; but -- '' There Lizzie stop suddenly , and the color rush up to her forehead ; for she remember the little rise in her pocket and it weigh upon her conscience like a stone .
Before Belle could ask what be the matter , Marie come in with a tray of cake and fruit , say : `` Here 's your lunch , Miss Belle . ''
`` Put it down , please ; I 'm not ready for it yet . ''
And Belle shake her head a she glance at Lizzie , who be star hard at the fire with such a troubled face that Belle could not bear to see it .
Jumping out of her nest of cushion , she heap a plate with good thing , and go to Lizzie , offer it , say , with a gentle courtesy that make the act doubly sweet : `` Please have some ; you must be tire of wait . ''
But Lizzie could not take it ; she could only cover her face and cry ; for this kindness rent her heart and make the steal flower a burden too heavy to be borne .
`` Oh , do n't cry so !
Are you sick ?
Have I be rude ?
Tell me all about it ; and if I ca n't do anything , mamma can , '' say Belle , surprise and trouble .
`` No ; I 'm not sick ; I 'm bad , and I ca n't bear it when you be so good to me , '' sob Lizzie , quite overcome with penitence ; and take out the crumpled rise , she confess her fault with many tear .
`` Do n't feel so much about such a little thing a that , '' begin Belle , warmly ; then check herself , and add , more soberly , `` It WAS wrong to take it without leave ; but it 's all right now , and I 'll give you a many rose a you want , for I know you be a good girl . ''
`` Thank you .
I do n't want it only because it be pretty , but I want to copy it .
I ca n't get any for myself , and so I ca n't do my make-believe one well .
Madame wo n't even lend me the old one in the store , and Estelle have none to spare for me , because I ca n't pay her for teach me .
She give me bit of muslin and wire and thing , and show me now and then .
But I know if I have a real flower I could copy it ; so she 'd see I do know something , for I try real hard .
I 'm SO tired of slop round the street , I 'd do anything to earn my living some other way . ''
Lizzie have pour out her trouble rapidly ; and the little story be quite affect when one saw the tear on her cheek , the poor clothes , and the thin hand that hold the steal rise .
Belle be much touch , and , in her impetuous way , set about mend matter as fast a possible .
`` Put on those boot and that pair of dry stocking right away .
Then tuck as much cake and fruit into your pocket a it will hold .
I 'm go to get you some flower , and see if mamma be too busy to attend to me . ''
With a nod and a smile , Belle fly about the room a minute ; then vanish , leave Lizzie to her comfortable task , feel a if fairy still haunt the world a in the good old time .
When Belle come back with a handful of rose , she find Lizzie absorb in admire contemplation of her new boot , a she eat sponge-cake in a blissful sort of waking-dream .
`` Mamma ca n't come ; but I do n't care about the hat .
It will do very well , and be n't worth fuss about .
There , will those be of any use to you ? ''
And she offer the nosegay with a much happy face than the one Lizzie first saw .
`` Oh , miss , they 're just lovely !
I 'll copy that pink rise as soon a ever I can , and when I 've learn how to do 'em tip-top , I 'd like to bring you some , if you do n't mind , '' answer Lizzie , smile all over her face a she bury her nose luxuriously in the fragrant mass .
`` I 'd like it very much , for I should think you 'd have to be very clever to make such pretty thing .
I really quite fancy those rosebud in my hat , now I know that you 're go to learn how to make them .
Put an orange in your pocket , and the flower in water as soon a you can , so they 'll be fresh when you want them .
Good-by .
Bring home our hat every time and tell me how you get on . ''
With kind word like these , Belle dismiss Lizzie , who run downstairs , feel as rich a if she have find a fortune .
Away to the next place she hurry , anxious to get her errand do and the precious posy safely into fresh water .
But Mrs. Turretviile be not at home , and the bonnet could not be leave till pay for .
So Lizzie turn to go down the high step , glad that she need not wait .
She stop one instant to take a delicious sniff at her flower , and that be the last happy moment that poor Lizzie know for many weary month .
The new boot be large for her , the step slippery with sleet , and down go the little errand girl , from top to bottom , till she land in the gutter directly upon Mrs. Turretville 's costly bonnet .
`` I 've save my posy , anyway , '' sigh Lizzie , a she pick herself up , bruise , wet , and faint with pain ; `` but , oh , my heart !
wo n't Madame scold when she see that band-box smash flat , '' groan the poor child , sit on the curbstone to get her breath and view the disaster .
The rain pour , the wind blew , the sparrow on the park rail chirp derisively , and no one come along to help Lizzie out of her trouble .
Slowly she gather up her burden ; painfully she limp away in the big boot ; and the last the naughty sparrow saw of her be a shabby little figure go round the corner , with a pale , tearful face hold lovingly over the bright bouquet that be her one treasure and her only comfort in the moment which bring to her the great misfortune of her life .
II .
FORGET-ME-NOTS `` Oh , mamma , I be so relieved that the box have come at last !
If it have not , I do believe I should have die of disappointment , '' cry pretty Belle , five year later , on the morning before her eighteenth birthday .
`` It would have be a serious disappointment , darling ; for I have sot my heart on your wear my gift to-morrow night , and when the steamer keep come in without my trunk from Paris , I be very anxious .
I hope you will like it . ''
`` Dear mamma , I know I shall like it ; your taste be so good and you know what suit me so well .
Make haste , Marie ; I 'm die to see it , '' say Belle , dance about the great trunk , a the maid carefully unfolded tissue paper and muslin wrapper .
A young girl 's first ball-dress be a grand affair , -- in her eye , at least ; and Belle soon stop dance , to stand with clasped hand , eager eye and part lip before the snowy pile of illusion that be at last daintily lift out upon the bed .
Then , a Marie display it loveliness , little cry of delight be hear , and when the whole delicate dress be arrange to the best effect she throw herself upon her mother 's neck and actually cry with pleasure .
`` Mamma , it be too lovely I and you be very kind to do so much for me .
How shall I ever thank you ? ''
`` By put it right on to see if it fit ; and when you wear it look your happy , that I may be proud of my pretty daughter . ''
Mamma get no further , for Marie utter a French shriek , wring her hand , and then begin to burrow wildly in the trunk and among the paper , cry distractedly : `` Great Heavens , madame !
the wreath have be forget !
What an affliction !
Mademoiselle 's enchant toilette be destroy without the wreath , and nowhere do I find it . ''
In vain they search ; in vain Marie wail and Belle declare it must be somewhere ; no wreath appear .
It be duly set down in the bill , and a fine sum charge for a head-dress to match the dainty forget-me-not that loop the fleecy skirt and ornament the bosom of the dress .
It have evidently be forget ; and mamma despatch Marie at once to try and match the flower , for Belle would not hear of any other decoration for her beautiful blonde hair .
The dress fit to a charm , and be pronounce by all beholder the lovely thing ever see .
Nothing be want but the wreath to make it quite perfect , and when Marie return , after a long search , with no forget-me-not , Belle be in despair .
`` Wear natural one , '' suggest a sympathizing friend .
But another hunt among greenhouse be as fruitless a that among the milliner ' room .
No forget-me-not could be find , and Marie fell exhaust into a chair , desolate at what she felt to be an awful calamity .
`` Let me have the carriage , and I 'll ransack the city till I find some , '' cry Belle , grow more resolute with each failure .
Marnma be deep in preparation for the ball , and could not help her afflicted daughter , though she be much disappoint at the mishap .
So Belle drive off , resolve to have her flower whether there be any or not .
Any one who have ever try to match a ribbon , find a certain fabric , or get anything do in a hurry , know what a wearisome task it sometimes be , and can imagine Belle 's state of mind after repeat disappointment .
She be about to give up in despair , when some one suggest that perhaps the Frenchwoman , Estelle Valnor , might make the desired wreath , if there be time .
Away drove Belle , and , on enter the room , give a sigh of satisfaction , for a whole boxful of the lovely forget-me-nots stood upon the table .
As fast a possible , she tell her tale and demand the flower , no matter what the price might be .
Imagine her feeling when the Frenchwoman , with a shrug , announce that it be impossible to give mademoiselle a single spray .
All be engage to trim a bridesmaid 's dress , and must be send away at once .
It really be too bad !
and Belle lose her temper entirely , for no persuasion or bribe would win a spray from Estelle .
The provoke part of it be that the wedding would not come off for several day , and there be time enough to make more flower for that dress , since Belle only want a few for her hair .
Neither would Estelle make her any , a her hand be full , and so small an order be not worth derange one 's self for ; but observe Belle 's sorrowful face , she say , affably : `` Mademoiselle may , perhaps , find the flower she desire at Miss Berton 's .
She have be help me with these garland , and may have some left .
Here be her address . ''
Belle take the card with thanks , and hurry away with a last hope faintly stir in her girlish heart , for Belle have an unusually ardent wish to look her best at this party , since Somebody be to be there , and Somebody consider forget-me-nots the sweet flower in the world .
Mamma know this , and the kiss Belle give her when the dress come have a more tender meaning than gratified vanity or daughterly love .
Up many stair she climb , and come at last to a little room , very poor but very neat , where , at the one window , sit a young girl , with crutch by her side and her lap full of flower-leaves and petal .
She rise slowly a Belle come in , and then stand look at her , with such a wistful expression in her shy , bright eye , that Belle 's anxious face clear involuntarily , and her voice lose it impatient tone .
As she speak , she glance about the room , hop to see some blue blossom await her .
But none appear ; and she be about to despond again , when the girl say , gently : `` I have none by me now , but I may be able to find you some . ''
`` Thank you very much ; but I have be everywhere in vain .
Still , if you do get any , please send them to me as soon a possible .
Here be my card . ''
Miss Berton glance at it , then cast a quick look at the sweet , anxious face before her , and smile so brightly that Belle smile also , and ask , wonderingly : `` What be it ?
What do you see ? ''
`` I see the dear young lady who be so kind to me long ago .
You do n't remember me , and never know my name ; but I never have forget you all these year .
I always hop I could do something to show how grateful I be , and now I can , for you shall have your flower if I sit up all night to make them . ''
But Belle still shake her head and watch the smile face before her with wondering eye , till the girl add , with sudden color in her cheek : `` Ah , you 've do so many kind thing in your life , you do n't remember the little errand girl from Madame Tifany 's who steal a rise in your hall , and how you give her rubber boot and cake and flower , and be so good to her she could n't forget it if she live to be a hundred . ''
`` But you be so change , '' begin Belle , who do faintly recollect that little incident in her happy life .
`` Yes , I have a fall and hurt myself so that I shall always be lame . ''
And Lizzie go on to tell how Madame have dismiss her in a rage ; how she lay ill till Mrs. Brown send her to the hospital ; and how for a year she have suffer much alone , in that great house of pain , before one of the kind visitor have befriend her .
While hear the story of the five year , that have be so full of pleasure , ease and love for herself , Belle forget her errand , and , sit beside Lizzie , listen with pity eye to all she tell of her endeavor to support herself by the delicate handiwork she love .
`` I 'm very happy now , '' end Lizzie , look about the little bare room with a face full of the sweet content .
`` I get nearly work enough to pay my way , and Estelle send me some when she have more than she can do .
I 've learn to do it nicely , and it be so pleasant to sit here and make flower instead of trudge about in the wet with other people 's hat .
Though I do sometimes wish I be able to trudge , one get on so slowly with crutch . ''
A little sigh follow the word , and Belle put her own plump hand on the delicate one that hold the crutch , say , in her cordial young voice : `` I 'll come and take you to drive sometimes , for you be too pale , and you 'll get ill sit here at work day after day .
Please let me ; I 'd love to ; for I feel so idle and wicked when I see busy people like you that I reproach myself for neglect my duty and have more than my share of happiness . ''
Lizzie thank her with a look , and then say , in a tone of interest that be delightful to hear : `` Tell about the wreath you want ; I should so love to do it for you , if I can . ''
Belle have forget all about it in listen to this sad little story of a girl 's life .
Now she felt half ashamed to talk of so frivolous a matter till she remember that it would help Lizzie ; and , resolve to pay for it a never garland be pay for before , she enter upon the subject with renew interest .
`` You shall have the flower in time for your ball to-morrow night .
I will engage to make a wreath that will please you , only it may take long than I think .
Do n't be trouble if I do n't send it till even ; it will surely come in time .
I can work fast , and this will be the happy job I ever do , '' say Lizzie , begin to lay out mysterious little tool and bend delicate wire .
`` You be altogether too grateful for the little I have do .
It make me feel ashamed to think I do not find you out before and do something well worth thanks . ''
`` Ah , it be n't the boot or the cake or the rose , dear Miss Belle .
It be the kind look , the gentle word , the way it be do , that go right to my heart , and do me more good than a million of money .
I never steal a pin after that day , for the little rise would n't let me forget how you forgive me so sweetly .
I sometimes think it keep me from great temptation , for I be a poor , forlorn child , with no one to keep me good . ''
Pretty Belle look pretty than ever a she listen , and a bright tear stand in either eye like a drop of dew on a blue flower .
It touch her very much to learn that her little act of childish charity have be so sweet and helpful to this lonely girl , and now live so freshly in her grateful memory .
It show her , suddenly , how precious little deed of love and sympathy be ; how strong to bless , how easy to perform , how comfortable to recall .
Her heart be very full and tender just then , and the lesson sunk deep into it never to be forget .
She sit a long time watch flower bud and blossom under Lizzie 's skilful finger , and then hurry home to tell all her glad news to mamma .
If the next day have not be full of most delightfully exciting event , Belle might have felt some anxiety about her wreath , for hour after hour go by and nothing arrive from Lizzie .
Evening come , and all be ready .
Belle be dress , and look so lovely that mamma declare she need nothing more .
But Marie insist that the grand effect would be ruin without the garland among the sunshiny hair .
Belle have time now to be anxious , and wait with grow impatience for the finishing touch to her charm toilette .
`` I must be downstairs to receive , and ca n't wait another moment ; so put in the blue pompon and let me go , '' she say at last , with a sigh of disappointment , for the desire to look beautiful that night in Somebody 's eye have increase four-fold .
With a tragic gesture , Marie be about to adjust the pompon when the quick tap of a crutch come down the hall , and Lizzie hurry in , flush and breathless , but smile happily a she uncover the box she carry with a look of proud satisfaction .
A general `` Ah ! ''
of admiration arose a Belle , mamma , and Marie survey the lovely wreath that lay before them ; and when it be carefully arrange on the bright head that be to wear it , Belle blush with pleasure .
Mamma say : `` It be more beautiful than any Paris could have send u ; '' and Marie clasp her hand theatrically , sigh , with her head on one side : `` Truly , yes ; mademoiselle be now adorable ! ''
`` I be so glad you like it .
I do my very best and work all night , but I have to beg one spray from Estelle , or , with all my haste , I could not have finish in time , '' say Lizzie , refresh her weary eye with a long , affectionate gaze at the pretty figure before her .
A fold of the airy skirt be catch on one of the blue cluster , and Lizzie kneel down to arrange it a she speak .
Belle lean toward her and say softly : `` Money alone ca n't pay you for this kindness ; so tell me how I can best serve you .
This be the happy night of my life , and I want to make every one feel glad also . ''
`` Then do n't talk of pay me , but promise that I may make the flower you wear on your wedding-day , '' whisper Lizzie , kiss the kind hand hold out to help her rise , for on it she saw a brilliant ring , and in the blooming , blush face bent over her she read the tender little story that Somebody have tell Belle that day .
`` So you shall !
and I 'll keep this wreath all my life for your sake , dear , '' answer Belle , a her full heart bubble over with pity affection for the poor girl who would never make a bridal garland for herself .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___The_Mysterious_Key_And_What_It_Opened.txt.out
Chapter I THE PROPHECY Trevlyn land and Trevlyn gold , Heir nor heiress e'er shall hold , Undisturbed , till , spite of rust , Truth be find in Trevlyn dust .
`` This be the third time I 've find you pore over that old rhyme .
What be the charm , Richard ?
Not it poetry I fancy . ''
And the young wife lay a slender hand on the yellow , time-worn page where , in Old English text , appear the line she laugh at .
Richard Trevlyn look up with a smile and threw by the book , a if annoy at be discover reading it .
Drawing his wife 's hand through his own , he lead her back to her couch , fold the soft shawl about her , and , sit in a low chair beside her , say in a cheerful tone , though his eye betray some hidden care , `` My love , that book be a history of our family for century , and that old prophecy have never yet be fulfil , except the ` heir and heiress ' line .
I be the last Trevlyn , and a the time draw near when my child shall be bear , I naturally think of his future , and hope he will enjoy his heritage in peace . ''
`` God grant it ! ''
softly echo Lady Trevlyn , add , with a look askance at the old book , `` I read that history once , and fancy it must be a romance , such dreadful thing be record in it .
Is it all true , Richard ? ''
`` Yes , dear .
I wish it be not .
Ours have be a wild , unhappy race till the last generation or two .
The stormy nature come in with old Sir Ralph , the fierce Norman knight , who kill his only son in a fit of wrath , by a blow with his steel gauntlet , because the boy 's strong will would not yield to his . ''
`` Yes , I remember , and his daughter Clotilde hold the castle during a siege , and marry her cousin , Count Hugo .
'T be a warlike race , and I like it in spite of the mad deed . ''
`` Married her cousin !
That have be the bane of our family in time past .
Being too proud to mate elsewhere , we have keep to ourselves till idiot and lunatic begin to appear .
My father be the first who break the law among u , and I follow his example : choose the fresh , sturdy flower I could find to transplant into our exhausted soil . ''
`` I hope it will do you honor by blossom bravely .
I never forget that you take me from a very humble home , and have make me the happy wife in England . ''
`` And I never forget that you , a girl of eighteen , consent to leave your hill and come to cheer the long-deserted house of an old man like me , '' return her husband fondly .
`` Nay , do n't call yourself old , Richard ; you be only forty-five , the bold , handsome man in Warwickshire .
But lately you look worried ; what be it ?
Tell me , and let me advise or comfort you . ''
`` It be nothing , Alice , except my natural anxiety for you -- Well , Kingston , what do you want ? ''
Trevlyn 's tender tone grow sharp a he address the entering servant , and the smile on his lip vanish , leave them dry and white a he glance at the card he hand him .
An instant he stand star at it , then ask , `` Is the man here ? ''
`` In the library , sir . ''
`` I 'll come . ''
Flinging the card into the fire , he watch it turn to ash before he speak , with averted eye : `` Only some annoying business , love ; I shall soon be with you again .
Lie and rest till I come . ''
With a hasty caress he leave her , but a he pass a mirror , his wife saw an expression of intense excitement in his face .
She say nothing , and lay motionless for several minute evidently struggle with some strong impulse .
`` He be ill and anxious , but hide it from me ; I have a right to know , and he 'll forgive me when I prove that it do no harm . ''
As she speak to herself she rise , glide noiselessly through the hall , enter a small closet build in the thickness of the wall , and , bend to the keyhole of a narrow door , listen with a half-smile on her lip at the trespass she be commit .
A murmur of voice meet her ear .
Her husband speak oftenest , and suddenly some word of his dash the smile from her face a if with a blow .
She start , shrank , and shiver , bend lower with set teeth , white cheek , and panic-stricken heart .
Paler and paler grow her lip , wilder and wilder her eye , fainter and fainter her breath , till , with a long sigh , a vain effort to save herself , she sink prone upon the threshold of the door , a if strike down by death .
`` Mercy on u , my lady , be you ill ? ''
cry Hester , the maid , a her mistress glide into the room look like a ghost , half an hour later .
`` I be faint and cold .
Help me to my bed , but do not disturb Sir Richard . ''
A shiver crept over her a she speak , and , cast a wild , woeful look about her , she lay her head upon the pillow like one who never care to lift it up again .
Hester , a sharp-eyed , middle-aged woman , watch the pale creature for a moment , then leave the room muttering , `` Something be wrong , and Sir Richard must know it .
That black-bearded man come for no good , I 'll warrant . ''
At the door of the library she pause .
No sound of voice come from within ; a stifled groan be all she hear ; and without wait to knock she go in , fear she know not what .
Sir Richard sit at his write table pen in hand , but his face be hide on his arm , and his whole attitude betray the presence of some overwhelming despair .
`` Please , sir , my lady be ill .
Shall I send for anyone ? ''
No answer .
Hester repeat her word , but Sir Richard never stir .
Much alarm , the woman raise his head , saw that he be unconscious , and rang for help .
But Richard Trevlyn be past help , though he linger for some hour .
He speak but once , murmur faintly , `` Will Alice come to say good-bye ? ''
`` Bring her if she can come , '' say the physician .
Hester go , find her mistress lying a she leave her , like a figure carve in stone .
When she give the message , Lady Trevlyn answer sternly , `` Tell him I will not come , '' and turn her face to the wall , with an expression which daunt the woman too much for another word .
Hester whisper the hard answer to the physician , fear to utter it aloud , but Sir Richard hear it , and die with a despair prayer for pardon on his lip .
When day dawn Sir Richard lay in his shroud and his little daughter in her cradle , the one unwept , the other unwelcomed by the wife and mother , who , twelve hour before , have call herself the happy woman in England .
They think her dying , and at her own command give her the sealed letter bear her address which her husband leave behind him .
She read it , lay it in her bosom , and , wake from the trance which seem to have so strongly chill and change her , beseech those about her with passionate earnestness to save her life .
For two day she hover on the brink of the grave , and nothing but the indomitable will to live save her , the doctor say .
On the third day she rally wonderfully , and some purpose seem to gift her with unnatural strength .
Evening come , and the house be very still , for all the sad bustle of preparation for Sir Richard 's funeral be over , and he lay for the last night under his own roof .
Hester sit in the darkened chamber of her mistress , and no sound break the hush but the low lullaby the nurse be sing to the fatherless baby in the adjoining room .
Lady Trevlyn seem to sleep , but suddenly put back the curtain , say abruptly , `` Where do he lie ? ''
`` In the state chamber , my lady , '' reply Hester , anxiously watch the feverish glitter of her mistress 's eye , the flush on her cheek , and the unnatural calmness of her manner .
`` Help me to go there ; I must see him . ''
`` It would be your death , my lady .
I beseech you , do n't think of it , '' begin the woman ; but Lady Trevlyn seem not to hear her , and something in the stern pallor of her face awe the woman into submission .
Wrapping the slight form of her mistress in a warm cloak , Hester half-led , half-carried her to the state room , and leave her on the threshold .
`` I must go in alone ; fear nothing , but wait for me here , '' she say , and close the door behind her .
Five minute have not elapse when she reappear with no sign of grief on her rigid face .
`` Take me to my bed and bring my jewel box , '' she say , with a shudder sigh , a the faithful servant receive her with an exclamation of thankfulness .
When her order have be obey , she draw from her bosom the portrait of Sir Richard which she always wear , and , remove the ivory oval from the gold case , she lock the former in a tiny drawer of the casket , replace the empty locket in her breast , and bid Hester give the jewel to Watson , her lawyer , who would see them put in a safe place till the child be grow .
`` Dear heart , my lady , you 'll wear them yet , for you 're too young to grieve all your day , even for so good a man a my blessed master .
Take comfort , and cheer up , for the dear child 's sake if no more . ''
`` I shall never wear them again '' be all the answer a Lady Trevlyn draw the curtain , a if to shut out hope .
Sir Richard be bury and , the nine day ' gossip over , the mystery of his death die for want of food , for the only person who could have explain it be in a state which forbid all allusion to that tragic day .
For a year Lady Trevlyn 's reason be in danger .
A long fever leave her so weak in mind and body that there be little hope of recovery , and her day be pass in a state of apathy sad to witness .
She seem to have forget everything , even the shock which have so sorely stricken her .
The sight of her child fail to rouse her , and month after month slip by , leave no trace of their passage on her mind , and but slightly renovate her feeble body .
Who the stranger be , what his aim in coming , or why he never reappear , no one discover .
The content of the letter leave by Sir Richard be unknown , for the paper have be destroy by Lady Trevlyn and no clue could be get from her .
Sir Richard have die of heart disease , the physician say , though he might have live year have no sudden shock assail him .
There be few relative to make investigation , and friend soon forget the sad young widow ; so the year roll on , and Lillian the heiress grow from infancy to childhood in the shadow of this mystery .
Chapter II PAUL `` Come , child , the dew be fall , and it be time we go in . ''
`` No , no , Mamma be not rest yet , so I may run down to the spring if I like . ''
And Lillian , as willful a winsome , vanish among the tall ferns where deer couch and rabbit hid .
Hester leisurely follow , look as unchanged a if a day instead of twelve year have pass since her arm receive the little mistress , who now rule her like a tyrant .
She have take but a few step when the child come fly back , exclaim in an excited tone , `` Oh , come quick !
There 's a man there , a dead man .
I saw him and I 'm frightened ! ''
`` Nonsense , child , it 's one of the keeper asleep , or some stroller who have no business here .
Take my hand and we 'll see who it be . ''
Somewhat reassured , Lillian lead her nurse to one of the old oak beside the path , and point to a figure lie half hidden in the fern .
A slender , swarthy boy of sixteen , with curly black hair , dark brow , and thick lash , a singularly stern mouth , and a general expression of strength and pride , which add character to his boyish face and dignify his poverty .
His dress betray that , be dusty and threadbare , his shoe much worn , and his possession contain in the little bundle on which he pillow his head .
He be sleep like one quite spent with weariness , and never stir , though Hester bent away the fern and examine him closely .
`` He 's not dead , my deary ; he 's asleep , poor lad , wear out with his day 's tramp , I dare say . ''
`` I 'm glad he 's alive , and I wish he 'd wake up .
He 's a pretty boy , be n't he ?
See what nice hand he 's get , and his hair be more curly than mine .
Make him open his eye , Hester , '' command the little lady , whose fear have give place to interest .
`` Hush , he 's stir .
I wonder how he get in , and what he want , '' whisper Hester .
`` I 'll ask him , '' and before her nurse could arrest her , Lillian draw a tall fern softly over the sleeper 's face , laugh aloud a she do so .
The boy wake at the sound , and without stir lay look up at the lovely little face bent over him , a if still in a dream . ''
Bella cara , '' he say , in a musical voice .
Then , a the child draw back abash at the glance of his large , bright eye , he seem to wake entirely and , spring to his foot , look at Hester with a quick , search glance .
Something in his face and air cause the woman to soften her tone a little , a she say gravely , `` Did you wish to see any one at the Hall ? ''
`` Yes .
Is Lady Trevlyn here ? ''
be the boy 's answer , a he stand cap in hand , with the smile fade already from his face .
`` She be , but unless your business be very urgent you have good see Parks , the keeper ; we do n't trouble my lady with trifle . ''
`` I 've a note for her from Colonel Daventry ; and a it be not a trifle , I 'll deliver it myself , if you please . ''
Hester hesitate an instant , but Lillian cry out , `` Mamma be close by , come and see her , '' and lead the way , beckoning a she run .
The lad follow with a composed air , and Hester bring up the rear , take note a she go with a woman 's keen eye .
Lady Trevlyn , a beautiful , pale woman , delicate in health and melancholy in spirit , sit on a rustic seat with a book in her hand ; not reading , but muse with an absent mind .
As the child approach , she hold out her hand to welcome her , but neither smile nor speak .
`` Mamma , here be a -- a person to see you , '' cry Lillian , rather at a loss how to designate the stranger , whose height and gravity now awe her .
`` A note from Colonel Daventry , my lady , '' and with a bow the boy deliver the missive .
Scarcely glance at him , she open it and read : My Dear Friend , The bearer of this , Paul Jex , have be with me some month and have serve me well .
I bring him from Paris , but he be English bear , and , though friendless , prefers to remain here , even after we leave , a we do in a week .
When I last saw you you mention want a lad to help in the garden ; Paul be accustom to that employment , though my wife use him a a sort of page in the house .
Hoping you may be able to give him shelter , I venture to send him .
He be honest , capable , and trustworthy in all respect .
Pray try him , and oblige , Yours sincerely , J. R. Daventry `` The place be still vacant , and I shall be very glad to give it to you , if you incline to take it , '' say Lady Trevlyn , lift her eye from the note and scan the boy 's face .
`` I do , madam , '' he answer respectfully .
`` The colonel say you be English , '' add the lady , in a tone of surprise .
The boy smile , show a faultless set of teeth , a he reply , `` I be , my lady , though just now I may not look it , be much tan and very dusty .
My father be an Englishman , but I 've live abroad a good deal since he die , and get foreign way , perhaps . ''
As he speak without any accent , and look full in her face with a pair of honest blue eye under the dark lash , Lady Trevlyn 's momentary doubt vanish .
`` Your age , Paul ? ''
`` Sixteen , my lady . ''
`` You understand garden ? ''
`` Yes , my lady . ''
`` And what else ? ''
`` I can break horse , serve at table , do errand , read aloud , ride after a young lady a groom , illuminate on parchment , train flower , and make myself useful in any way . ''
The tone , half modest , half eager , in which the boy speak , as well a the odd list of his accomplishment , bring a smile to Lady Trevlyn 's lip , and the general air of the lad prepossess her .
`` I want Lillian to ride soon , and Roger be rather old for an escort to such a little horsewoman .
Do n't you think we might try Paul ? ''
she say , turn to Hester .
The woman gravely eye the lad from head to foot , and shake her head , but an imploring little gesture and a glance of the handsome eye soften her heart in spite of herself .
`` Yes , my lady , if he do well about the place , and Parks think he 's steady enough , we might try it by-and-by . ''
Lillian clap her hand and , draw nearer , exclaim confidingly , a she look up at her new groom , `` I know he 'll do , Mamma .
I like him very much , and I hope you 'll let him train my pony for me .
Will you , Paul ? ''
`` Yes . ''
As he speak very low and hastily , the boy look away from the eager little face before him , and a sudden flush of color cross his dark cheek .
Hester saw it and say within herself , `` That boy have good blood in his vein .
He 's no clodhopper 's son , I can tell by his hand and foot , his air and walk .
Poor lad , it 's hard for him , I 'll warrant , but he 's not too proud for honest work , and I like that . ''
`` You may stay , Paul , and we will try you for a month .
Hester , take him to Parks and see that he be make comfortable .
Tomorrow we will see what he can do .
Come , darling , I be rest now . ''
As she speak , Lady Trevlyn dismiss the boy with a gracious gesture and lead her little daughter away .
Paul stand watch her , a if forgetful of his companion , till she say , rather tartly , `` Young man , you 'd better have thank my lady while she be here than stare after her now it 's too late .
If you want to see Parks , you 'd best come , for I 'm go . ''
`` Is that the family tomb yonder , where you find me asleep ? ''
be the unexpected reply to her speech , a the boy quietly follow her , not at all daunt by her manner .
`` Yes , and that remind me to ask how you get in , and why you be nap there , instead of do your errand properly ? ''
`` I leap the fence and stop to rest before present myself , Miss Hester '' be the cool answer , accompany by a short laugh a he confess his trespass .
`` You look a if you 'd have a long walk ; where be you from ? ''
`` London . ''
`` Bless the boy !
It 's fifty mile away . ''
`` So my shoe show ; but it 's a pleasant trip in summer time . ''
`` But why do you walk , child !
Had you no money ? ''
`` Plenty , but not for waste on coach , when my own stout leg could carry me .
I take a two day ' holiday and save my money for good thing . ''
`` I like that , '' say Hester , with an approve nod .
`` You 'll get on , my lad , if that 's your way , and I 'll lend a hand , for laziness be my abomination , and one see plenty nowadays . ''
`` Thank you .
That 's friendly , and I 'll prove that I be grateful .
Please tell me , be my lady ill ? ''
`` Always delicate since Sir Richard die . ''
`` How long ago be that ? ''
`` Ten year or more . ''
`` Are there no young gentleman in the family ? ''
`` No , Miss Lillian be an only child , and a sweet one , bless her ! ''
`` A proud little lady , I should say . ''
`` And well she may be , for there 's no good blood in England than the Trevlyns , and she 's heiress to a noble fortune . ''
`` Is that the Trevlyn coat of arm ? ''
ask the boy abruptly , point to a stone falcon with the motto ME AND MINE carve over the gate through which they be pass .
`` Yes .
Why do you ask ? ''
`` Mere curiosity ; I know something of heraldry and often paint these thing for my own pleasure .
One learn odd amusement abroad , '' he add , see an expression of surprise on the woman 's face .
`` You 'll have little time for such matter here .
Come in and report yourself to the keeper , and if you 'll take my advice ask no question of him , for you 'll get no answer . ''
`` I seldom ask question of men , a they be not fond of gossip . ''
And the boy nod with a smile of mischievous significance a he enter the keeper 's lodge .
A sharp lad and a saucy , if he like .
I 'll keep my eye on him , for my lady take no more thought of such thing than a child , and Lillian care for nothing but her own will .
He have a take way with him , though , and know how to flatter .
It 's well he do , poor lad , for life 's a hard matter to a friendless soul like him .
As she think these thought Hester go on to the house , leave Paul to win the good grace of the keeper , which he speedily do by assume an utterly different manner from that he have wear with the woman .
That night , when the boy be alone in his own room , he write a long letter in Italian describe the event of the day , enclose a sketch of the falcon and motto , direct it to `` Father Cosmo Carmela , Genoa , '' and lay down to sleep , mutter , with a grim look and a heavy sigh , `` So far so well ; I 'll not let my heart be soften by pity , or my purpose change till my promise be keep .
Pretty child , I wish I have never see her ! ''
Chapter III SECRET SERVICE In a week Paul be a favorite with the household ; even prudent Hester felt the charm of his presence , and own that Lillian be happy for a young companion in her walk .
Hitherto the child have lead a solitary life , with no playmate of her own age , such be the will of my lady ; therefore she welcome Paul a a new and delightful amusement , consider him her private property and soon transfer his duty from the garden to the house .
Satisfied of his merit , my lady yield to Lillian 's demand , and Paul be instal as page to the young lady .
Always respectful and obedient , he never forget his place , yet seem unconsciously to influence all who approach him , and win the goodwill of everyone .
My lady show unusual interest in the lad , and Lillian openly display her admiration for his accomplishment and her affection for her devoted young servitor .
Hester be much flatter by the confidence he repose in her , for to her alone do he tell his story , and of her alone asked advice and comfort in his various small strait .
It be a she suspect : Paul be a gentleman 's son , but misfortune have rob him of home , friend , and parent , and thrown him upon the world to shift for himself .
This sad story touch the woman 's heart , and the boy 's manly spirit win respect .
She have lose a son year ago , and her empty heart yearn over the motherless lad .
Ashamed to confess the tender feeling , she wear her usual severe manner to him in public , but in private soften wonderfully and enjoy the boy 's regard heartily .
`` Paul , come in .
I want to speak with you a moment , '' say my lady , from the long window of the library to the boy who be train vine outside .
Dropping his tool and pull off his hat , Paul obey , look a little anxious , for the month of trial expire that day .
Lady Trevlyn saw and answer the look with a gracious smile .
`` Have no fear .
You be to stay if you will , for Lillian be happy and I be satisfied with you . ''
`` Thank you , my lady . ''
And an odd glance of mingled pride and pain shone in the boy 's downcast eye .
`` That be settle , then .
Now let me say what I call you in for .
You speak of be able to illuminate on parchment .
Can you restore this old book for me ? ''
She put into his hand the ancient volume Sir Richard have be read the day he die .
It have lie neglect in a damp nook for year till my lady discover it , and , sad a be the association connect with it , she desire to preserve it for the sake of the weird prophecy if nothing else .
Paul examine it , and a he turn it to and fro in his hand it open at the page oftenest read by it late master .
His eye kindle a he look , and with a quick gesture he turn a if toward the light , in truth to hide the flash of triumph that pass across his face .
Carefully control his voice , he answer in a moment , a he look up , quite compose , `` Yes , my lady , I can retouch the faded color on these margin and darken the pale ink of the Old English text .
I like the work , and will gladly do it if you like . ''
`` Do it , then , but be very careful of the book while in your hand .
Provide what be needful , and name your own price for the work , '' say his mistress .
`` Nay , my lady , I be already pay -- '' `` How so ? ''
she ask , surprise .
Paul have speak hastily , and for an instant look embarrassed , but answer with a sudden flush on his dark cheek , `` You have be kind to me , and I be glad to show my , gratitude in any way , my lady . ''
`` Let that pas , my boy .
Do this little service for me and we will see about the recompense afterward . ''
And with a smile Lady Trevlyn leave him to begin his work .
The moment the door close behind her a total change pass over Paul .
He shake his clenched hand after her with a gesture of menace , then toss up the old book and catch it with an exclamation of delight , a he reopen it at the worn page and reread the inexplicable verse .
`` Another proof , another proof !
The work go bravely on , Father Cosmo ; and boy a I be , I 'll keep my word in spite of everything , '' he mutter .
`` What be that you 'll keep , lad ? ''
say a voice behind him .
`` I 'll keep my word to my lady , and do my best to restore this book , Mrs. Hester , '' he answer , quickly recover himself .
`` Ah , that 's the last book poor Master read .
I hide it away , but my lady find it in spite of me , '' say Hester , with a doleful sigh .
`` Did he die suddenly , then ? ''
ask the boy .
`` Dear heart , yes ; I find him die in this room with the ink scarce dry on the letter he leave for my lady .
A mysterious business and a sad one . ''
`` Tell me about it .
I like sad story , and I already feel a if I belong to the family , a loyal retainer a in the old time .
While you dust the book and I rub the mold off this old cover , tell me the tale , please , Mrs. Hester . ''
She shake her head , but yield to the persuasive look and tone of the boy , tell the story more fully than she intend , for she love talk and have come to regard Paul a her own , almost .
`` And the letter ?
What be in it ? ''
ask the boy , a she pause at the catastrophe .
`` No one ever know but my lady . ''
`` She destroy it , then ? ''
`` I think so , till a long time afterward , one of the lawyer come pester me with question , and make me ask her .
She be ill at the time , but answer with a look I shall never forget , ` No , it 's not burnt , but no one shall ever see it . '
I dare ask no more , but I fancy she have it safe somewhere and if it 's ever need she 'll bring it out .
It be only some private matter , I fancy . ''
`` And the stranger ? ''
`` Oh , he vanish as oddly a he come , and have never be find .
A strange story , lad .
Keep silent , and let it rest . ''
`` No fear of my tattling , '' and the boy smile curiously to himself a he bend over the book , polish the brassbound cover .
`` What be you do with that pretty white wax ? ''
ask Lillian the next day , a she come upon Paul in a quiet corner of the garden and find him absorbed in some mysterious occupation .
With a quick gesture he destroy his work , and , banish a momentary expression of annoyance , he answer in his accustomed tone a he begin to work anew , `` I be mold a little deer for you , Miss Lillian .
See , here be a rabbit already do , and I 'll soon have a stag also . ''
`` It 's very pretty !
How many nice thing you can do , and how kind you be to think of my like something new .
Was this wax what you go to get this morning when you ride away so early ? ''
ask the child .
`` Yes , Miss Lillian .
I be order to exercise your pony and I make him useful as well .
Would you like to try this ?
It 's very easy . ''
Lillian be charm , and for several day wax modeling be her favorite play .
Then she tire of it , and Paul invent a new amusement , smile his inexplicable smile a he throw away the broken toy of wax .
`` You be get pale and thin , keep such late hour , Paul .
Go to bed , boy , go to bed , and get your sleep early , '' say Hester a week afterward , with a motherly air , a Paul pass her one morning .
`` And how do you know I do n't go to bed ? ''
he ask , wheel about .
`` My lady have be restless lately , and I sit up with her till she sleep .
As I go to my room , I see your lamp burning , and last night I get as far a your door , mean to speak to you , but do n't , think you 'd take it amiss .
But really you be the bad for late hour , child . ''
`` I shall soon finish restore the book , and then I 'll sleep .
I hope I do n't disturb you .
I have to grind my color , and often make more noise than I mean to . ''
Paul fix his eye sharply on the woman a he speak , but she seem unconscious of it , and turn to go on , say indifferently , `` Oh , that 's the odd sound , be it ?
No , it do n't trouble me , so grind away , and make an end of it as soon a may be . ''
An anxious fold in the boy 's forehead smooth itself away a he leave her , say to himself with a sigh of relief , `` A narrow escape ; it 's well I keep the door lock . ''
The boy 's light burn no more after that , and Hester be content till a new worry come to trouble her .
On her way to her room late one night , she saw a tall shadow flit down one of the side corridor that branch from the main one .
For a moment she be startle , but , be a woman of courage , she follow noiselessly , till the shadow seem to vanish in the gloom of the great hall .
`` If the house ever own a ghost I 'd say that 's it , but it never do , so I suspect some deviltry .
I 'll step to Paul .
He 's not asleep , I dare say .
He 's a brave and a sensible lad , and with him I 'll quietly search the house . ''
Away she go , more nervous than she would own , and tap at the boy 's door .
No one answer , and , see that it be ajar , Hester whisk in so hurriedly that her candle go out .
With an impatient exclamation at her carelessness she glide to the bed , draw the curtain , and put forth her hand to touch the sleeper .
The bed be empty .
A disagreeable thrill shot through her , a she assure herself of the fact by grope along the narrow bed .
Standing in the shadow of the curtain , she star about the dusky room , in which object be visible by the light of a new moon .
`` Lord bless me , what be the boy about !
I do believe it be him I saw in the -- '' She get no further in her mental exclamation for the sound of light approach footstep near her .
Slipping around the bed she wait in the shadow , and a moment after Paul appear , look pale and ghostly , with dark , disheveled hair , wide-open eye , and a cloak thrown over his shoulder .
Without a pause he fling it off , lay himself in bed , and seem to sleep at once .
`` Paul !
Paul ! ''
whispered Hester , shake him , after a pause of astonishment at the whole proceeding .
`` Hey , what be it ? ''
And he sit up , look drowsily about him .
`` Come , come , no trick , boy .
What be you do , trail about the house at this hour and in such trim ? ''
`` Why , Hester , be it you ? ''
he exclaim with a laugh , a he shake off her grip and look up at her in surprise .
`` Yes , and well it be me .
If it have be any of those silly girl , the house would have be rouse by this time .
What mischief be afoot that you leave your bed and play ghost in this wild fashion ? ''
`` Leave my bed !
Why , my good soul , I have n't stir , but have be dream with all my might these two hour .
What do you mean , Hester ? ''
She tell him a she relit her lamp , and stand eye him sharply the while .
When she finish he be silent a minute , then say , look half vexed and half ashamed , `` I see how it be , and I 'm glad you alone have find me out .
I walk in my sleep sometimes , Hester , that 's the truth .
I think I 'd get over it , but it 's come back , you see , and I 'm sorry for it .
Do n't be trouble .
I never do any mischief or come to any harm .
I just take a quiet promenade and march back to bed again .
Did I frighten you ? ''
`` Just a trifle , but it 's nothing .
Poor lad , you 'll have to have a bedfellow or be lock up ; it 's dangerous to go roam about in this way , '' say Hester anxiously .
`` It wo n't last long , for I 'll get more tired and then I shall sleep sounder .
Do n't tell anyone , please , else they 'll laugh at me , and that 's not pleasant .
I do n't mind your know for you seem almost like a mother , and I thank you for it with all my heart . ''
He hold out his hand with the look that be irresistible to Hester .
Remembering only that he be a motherless boy , she stroke the curly hair off his forehead , and kiss him , with the thought of her own son warm at her heart .
`` Good night , dear .
I 'll say nothing , but give you something that will ensure quiet sleep hereafter . ''
With that she leave him , but would have be annoy could she have see the convulsion of boyish merriment which take possession of him when alone , for he laugh till the tear run down his cheek .
Chapter IV VANISHED He 's a handsome lad , and one any woman might be proud to call her son , '' say Hester to Bedford , the stately butler , a they linger at the hall door one autumn morning to watch their young lady 's departure on her daily ride .
`` You be right , Mrs. Hester , he 's a fine lad , and yet he seem above his place , though he do look the very picture of a lady 's groom , '' reply Bedford approvingly .
So he do , a he stand hold the white pony of his little mistress , for the boy give an air to whatever he wore and look like a gentleman even in his livery .
The dark-blue coat with silver button , the silver band about his hat , his white-topped boot and bright spur , spotless glove , and tightly draw belt be all in perfect order , all become , and his handsome , dark face cause many a susceptible maid to blush and simper a they pass him .
`` Gentleman Paul , '' a the servant call him , be rather lofty and reserve among his mate , but they like him nonetheless , for Hester have drop hint of his story and quite a little romance have spring up about him .
He stand lean against the docile creature , sunk in thought , and quite unconscious of the watcher and whisperer close by .
But a Lillian appear he wake up , attend to his duty like a well-trained groom , and linger over his task a if he like it .
Down the avenue he ride behind her , but a they turn into a shady lane Lillian beckon , say , in the imperious tone habitual to her , `` Ride near me .
I wish to talk . ''
Paul obey , and amuse her with the chat she like till they reach a hazel copse ; here he draw rein , and , leap down , gather a handful of ripe nut for her .
`` How nice .
Let u rest a minute here , and while I eat a few , please pull some of those flower for Mamma .
She like a wild nosegay well than any I can bring her from the garden . ''
Lillian ate her nut till Paul come to her with a hatful of late flower and , stand by her , hold the impromptu basket while she make up a bouquet to suit her taste .
`` You shall have a posy , too ; I like you to wear one in your buttonhole a the lady ' groom do in the Park , '' say the child , settle a scarlet poppy in the blue coat .
`` Thanks , Miss Lillian , I 'll wear your color with all my heart , especially today , for it be my birthday . ''
And Paul look up at the bloom little face with unusual softness in his keen blue eye .
`` Is it ?
Why , then , you 're seventeen ; almost a man , be n't you ? ''
`` Yes , thank heaven , '' mutter the boy , half to himself .
`` I wish I be a old .
I sha n't be in my teen till autumn .
I must give you something , Paul , because I like you very much , and you be always do kind thing for me .
What shall it be ? ''
And the child hold out her hand with a cordial look and gesture that touch the boy .
With one of the foreign fashion which sometimes appear when he forget himself , he kiss the small hand , say impulsively , `` My dear little mistress , I want nothing but your goodwill -- and your forgiveness , '' he add , under his breath .
`` You have that already , Paul , and I shall find something to add to it .
But what be that ? ''
And she lay hold of a little locket which have slip into sight a Paul bent forward in his salute .
He thrust it back , color so deeply that the child observe it , and exclaim , with a mischievous laugh , `` It be your sweetheart , Paul .
I hear Bessy , my maid , tell Hester she be sure you have one because you take no notice of them .
Let me see it .
Is she pretty ? ''
`` Very pretty , '' answer the boy , without show the picture .
`` Do you like her very much ? ''
questioned Lillian , get interested in the little romance .
`` Very much , '' and Paul 's black eyelash fell .
`` Would you die for her , a they say in the old song ? ''
ask the girl , melodramatically .
`` Yes , Miss Lillian , or live for her , which be hard . ''
`` Dear me , how very nice it must be to have anyone care for one so much , '' say the child innocently .
`` I wonder if anybody ever will for me ? '' ''
Love come to all soon or late , And maketh gay or sad ; For every bird will find it mate , And every lass a lad , '' sang Paul , quote one of Hester 's song , and look relieve that Lillian 's thought have stray from him .
But he be mistake .
`` Shall you marry this sweetheart of yours someday ? ''
ask Lillian , turn to him with a curious yet wistful look .
`` Perhaps . ''
`` You look a if there be no ` perhaps ' about it , '' say the child , quick to read the kindling of the eye and the change in the voice that accompany the boy 's reply .
`` She be very young and I must wait , and while I wait many thing may happen to part u . ''
`` Is she a lady ? ''
`` Yes , a wellborn , lovely little lady , and I 'll marry her if I live . ''
Paul speak with a look of decision , and a proud lift of the head that contrast curiously with the badge of servitude he wear .
Lillian felt this , and ask , with a sudden shyness come over her , `` But you be a gentleman , and so no one will mind even if you be not rich . ''
`` How do you know what I be ? ''
he ask quickly .
`` I hear Hester tell the housekeeper that you be not what you seem , and one day she hop you 'd get your right place again .
I ask Mamma about it , and she say she would not let me be with you so much if you be not a fit companion for me .
I be not to speak of it , but she mean to be your friend and help you by-and-by . ''
`` Does she ? ''
And the boy laugh an odd , short laugh that jar on Lillian 's ear and make her say reprovingly , `` You be proud , I know , but you 'll let u help you because we like to do it , and I have no brother to share my money with . ''
`` Would you like one , or a sister ? ''
ask Paul , look straight into her face with his pierce eye .
`` Yes , indeed !
I long for someone to be with me and love me , a Mamma ca n't . ''
`` Would you be willing to share everything with another person -- perhaps have to give them a great many thing you like and now have all to yourself ? ''
`` I think I should .
I 'm selfish , I know , because everyone pet and spoil me , but if I love a person dearly I 'd give up anything to them .
Indeed I would , Paul , pray believe me . ''
She speak earnestly , and lean on his shoulder a if to enforce her word .
The boy 's arm stole around the little figure in the saddle , and a beautiful bright smile break over his face a he answer warmly , `` I do believe it , dear , and it make me happy to hear you say so .
Do n't be afraid , I 'm your equal , but I 'll not forget that you be my little mistress till I can change from groom to gentleman . ''
He add the last sentence a he withdraw his arm , for Lillian have shrink a little and blush with surprise , not anger , at this first breach of respect on the part of her companion .
Both be silent for a moment , Paul look down and Lillian busy with her nosegay .
She speak first , assume an air of satisfaction a she survey her work .
`` That will please Mamma , I 'm sure , and make her quite forget my naughty prank of yesterday .
Do you know I offend her dreadfully by peep into the gold case she wear on her neck ?
She be asleep and I be sit by her .
In her sleep she pull it out and say something about a letter and Papa .
I want to see Papa 's face , for I never do , because the big picture of him be go from the gallery where the others be , so I peep into the case when she let it drop and be so disappointed to find nothing but a key . ''
`` A key !
What sort of a key ? ''
cry Paul in an eager tone .
`` Oh , a little silver one like the key of my piano , or the black cabinet .
She wake and be very angry to find me meddle . ''
`` What do it belong to ? ''
ask Paul .
`` Her treasure box , she say , but I do n't know where or what that be , and I dare not ask any more , for she forbid my speaking to her about it .
Poor Mamma !
I 'm always trouble her in some way or other . ''
With a penitent sigh , Lillian tie up her flower and hand them to Paul to carry .
As she do so , the change in his face strike her .
`` How grim and old you look , '' she exclaim .
`` Have I say anything that trouble you ? ''
`` No , Miss Lillian .
I 'm only think . ''
`` Then I wish you would n't think , for you get a great wrinkle in your forehead , your eye grow almost black , and your mouth look fierce .
You be a very odd person , Paul ; one minute as gay a any boy , and the next a grave and stern a a man with a deal of work to do . ''
`` I have get a deal of work to do , so no wonder I look old and grim . ''
`` What work , Paul ? ''
`` To make my fortune and win my lady . ''
When Paul speak in that tone and wear that look , Lillian felt a if they have change place , and he be the master and she the servant .
She wonder over this in her childish mind , but proud and willful a she be , she like it , and obey him with unusual meekness when he suggest that it be time to return .
As he ride silently beside her , she steal covert glance at him from under her wide hat brim , and study his unconscious face a she have never do before .
His lip move now and then but utter no audible sound , his black brow be knit , and once his hand go to his breast a if he think of the little sweetheart whose picture lay there .
He 's get a trouble .
I wish he 'd tell me and let me help him if I can .
I 'll make him show me that miniature someday , for I 'm interested in that girl , think Lillian with a pensive sigh .
As he hold his hand for her little foot in dismount her at the hall door , Paul seem to have shake off his grave mood , for he look up and smile at her with his blithe expression .
But Lillian appear to be the thoughtful one now and with an air of dignity , very pretty and become , thank her young squire in a stately manner and sweep into the house , look tall and womanly in her flowing skirt .
Paul laugh a he glance after her and , fling himself onto his horse , ride away to the stable at a reckless pace , a if to work off some emotion for which he could find no other vent .
`` Here 's a letter for you , lad , all the way from some place in Italy .
Who do you know there ? ''
say Bedford , a the boy come back .
With a hasty `` Thank you , '' Paul catch the letter and dart away to his own room , there to tear it open and , after read a single line , to drop into a chair a if he have receive a sudden blow .
Growing paler and paler he read on , and when the letter fell from his hand he exclaim , in a tone of despair , `` How could he die at such a time ! ''
For an hour the boy sit think intently , with locked door , curtain window , and several paper strew before him .
Letters , memoranda , plan , drawing , and bit of parchment , all of which he take from a small lock portfolio always wear about him .
Over these he pore with a face in which hope , despondency , resolve , and regret alternate rapidly .
Taking the locket out he examine a ring which lay in one side , and the childish face which smile on him from the other .
His eye fill a he lock and put it by , say tenderly , `` Dear little heart !
I 'll not forget or desert her whatever happen .
Time must help me , and to time I must leave my work .
One more attempt and then I 'm off . ''
* * * * * `` I 'll go to bed now , Hester ; but while you get my thing ready I 'll take a turn in the corridor .
The air will refresh me . ''
As she speak , Lady Trevlyn draw her wrapper about her and pace softly down the long hall light only by fitful gleam of moonlight and the ruddy glow of the fire .
At the far end be the state chamber , never use now , and never visit except by Hester , who occasionally go in to dust and air it , and my lady , who always pass the anniversary of Sir Richard 's death alone there .
The gallery be very dark , and she seldom go farther than the last window in her restless walk , but a she now approach she be startle to see a streak of yellow light under the door .
She keep the key herself and neither she nor Hester have be there that day .
A cold shiver pass over her for , a she look , the shadow of a foot darken the light for a moment and vanish a if someone have noiselessly pass .
Obeying a sudden impulse , my lady sprang forward and try to open the door .
It be lock , but a her hand turn the silver knob a sound a if a drawer softly close meet her ear .
She stoop to the keyhole but it be dark , a key evidently be in the lock .
She draw back and fly to her room , snatch the key from her dress table , and , bid Hester follow , return to the hall .
`` What be it , my lady ? ''
cry the woman , alarm at the agitation of her mistress .
`` A light , a sound , a shadow in the state chamber .
Come quick ! ''
cry Lady Trevlyn , add , a she point to the door , `` There , there , the light shine underneath .
Do you see it ? ''
`` No , my lady , it 's dark , '' return Hester .
It be , but never pause my lady thrust in the key , and to her surprise it turn , the door fly open , and the dim , still room be before them .
Hester boldly enter , and while her mistress slowly follow , she search the room , look behind the tall screen by the hearth , up the wide chimney , in the great wardrobe , and under the ebony cabinet , where all the relic of Sir Richard be keep .
Nothing appear , not even a mouse , and Hester turn to my lady with an air of relief .
But her mistress point to the bed shroud in dark velvet hanging , and whisper breathlessly , `` You forget to look there . ''
Hester have not forget , but in spite of her courage and good sense she shrink a little from look at the spot where she have last see her master 's dead face .
She believe the light and sound to be phantom of my lady 's distempered fancy , and search merely to satisfy her .
The mystery of Sir Richard 's death still haunt the mind of all who remember it , and even Hester felt a superstitious dread of that room .
With a nervous laugh she look under the bed and , draw back the heavy curtain , say soothingly , `` You see , my lady , there 's nothing there . ''
But the word die on her lip , for , a the pale glimmer of the candle pierce the gloom of that funeral couch , both saw a face upon the pillow : a pale face frame in dark hair and beard , with closed eye and the stony look the dead wear .
A loud , long shriek that rouse the house break from Lady Trevlyn a she fell senseless at the bedside , and drop both curtain and candle Hester catch up her mistress and flee from the haunt room , lock the door behind her .
In a moment a dozen servant be about them , and into their astonished ear Hester pour her story while vainly try to restore her lady .
Great be the dismay and intense the unwillingness of anyone to obey when Hester order the men to search the room again , for she be the first to regain her self-possession .
`` Where 's Paul ?
He 's the heart of a man , boy though he be , '' she say angrily a the men hang back .
`` He 's not here .
Lord !
Maybe it be him a-playing trick , though it ai n't like him , '' cry Bessy , Lillian 's little maid .
`` No , it ca n't be him , for I lock him in myself .
He walk in his sleep sometimes , and I be afraid he 'd startle my lady .
Let him sleep ; this would only excite him and set him to march again .
Follow me , Bedford and James , I 'm not afraid of ghost or rogue . ''
With a face that belie her word Hester lead the way to the awful room , and fling back the curtain resolutely look in .
The bed be empty , but on the pillow be plainly visible the mark of a head and a single scarlet stain , a of blood .
At that sight Hester turn pale and catch the butler 's arm , whisper with a shudder , `` Do you remember the night we put him in his coffin , the drop of blood that fell from his white lip ?
Sir Richard have be here . ''
`` Good Lord , ma'am , do n't say that !
We can never rest in our bed if such thing be to happen , '' gasp Bedford , back to the door .
`` It 's no use to look , we 've find all we shall find so go your way and tell no one of this , '' say the woman in a gloomy tone , and , have assure herself that the window be fast , Hester lock the room and order everyone but Bedford and the housekeeper to bed .
`` Do you sit outside my lady 's door till morning , '' she say to the butler , `` and you , Mrs. Price , help me to tend my poor lady , for if I 'm not mistake this night 's work will bring on the old trouble . ''
Morning come , and with it a new alarm ; for , though his door be fast lock and no foothold for even a sparrow outside the window , Paul 's room be empty , and the boy nowhere to be find .
Chapter V A HERO Four year have pass , and Lillian be fast blooming into a lovely woman : proud and willful a ever , but very charming , and already a belle in the little world where she still reign a queen .
Owing to her mother 's ill health , she be allow more freedom than be usually permit to an English girl of her age ; and , during the season , often go into company with a friend of Lady Trevlyn 's who be chaperon two young daughter of her own .
To the world Lillian seem a gay , free-hearted girl ; and no one , not even her mother , know how well she remember and how much she miss the lost Paul .
No tidings of him have ever come , and no trace of him be find after his flight .
Nothing be miss , he go without his wage , and no reason could be divine for his departure except the foreign letter .
Bedford remember it , but forget what postmark it bore , for he have only be able to decipher `` Italy . ''
My lady make many inquiry and often speak of him ; but when month after month pass and no news come , she give him up , and on Lillian 's account feign to forget him .
Contrary to Hester 's fear , she do not seem the bad for the nocturnal fright , but evidently connect the strange visitor with Paul , or , after a day or two of nervous exhaustion , return to her usual state of health .
Hester have her own misgiving , but , be forbid to allude to the subject , she hold her peace , after emphatically declare that Paul would yet appear to set her mind at rest .
`` Lillian , Lillian , I 've such news for you !
Come and hear a charming little romance , and prepare to see the hero of it ! ''
cry Maud Churchill , rush into her friend 's pretty boudoir one day in the height of the season .
Lillian lay on a couch , rather languid after a ball , and listlessly beg Maud to tell her story , for she be die to be amuse .
`` Well my , dear , just listen and you 'll be as enthusiastic a I be , '' cry Maud .
And throw her bonnet on one chair , her parasol on another , and her glove anywhere , she settle herself on the couch and begin : `` You remember read in the paper , some time ago , that fine account of the young man who take part in the Italian revolution and do that heroic thing with the bombshell ? ''
`` Yes , what of him ? ''
ask Lillian , sit up .
`` He be my hero , and we be to see him tonight . ''
`` Go on , go on !
Tell all , and tell it quickly , '' she cry .
`` You know the officer be sit somewhere , hold a council , while the city -LRB- I forget the name -RRB- be be bombard , and how a shell come into the midst of them , how they sit paralyze , expect it to burst , and how this young man catch it up and run out with it , risk his own life to save theirs ? ''
`` Yes , yes , I remember ! ''
And Lillian 's listless face kindle at the recollection .
`` Well , an Englishman who be there be so charm by the act that , find the young man be poor and an orphan , he adopt him .
Mr. Talbot be old , and lonely , and rich , and when he die , a year after , he leave his name and fortune to this Paolo . ''
`` I 'm glad , I 'm glad ! ''
cried Lillian , clap her hand with a joyful face .
`` How romantic and charm it be ! ''
`` Is n't it ?
But , my dear creature , the most romantic part be to come .
Young Talbot serve in the war , and then come to England to take possession of his property .
It 's somewhere down in Kent , a fine place and good income , all his ; and he deserve it .
Mamma hear a deal about him from Mrs. Langdon , who know old Talbot and have see the young man .
Of course all the girl be wild to behold him , for he be very handsome and accomplished , and a gentleman by birth .
But the dreadful part be that he be already betroth to a lovely Greek girl , who come over at the same time , and be live in London with a companion ; quite elegantly , Mrs. Langdon say , for she call and be charm .
This girl have be see by some of our gentleman friend , and they already rave about the ` fair Helene , ' for that 's her name . ''
Here Maud be force to stop for breath , and Lillian have a chance to question her .
`` How old be she ? ''
`` About eighteen or nineteen , they say . ''
`` Very pretty ? ''
`` Ravishing , regularly Greek and divine , Fred Raleigh say . ''
`` When be she to be marry ? ''
`` Do n't know ; when Talbot get settle , I fancy . ''
`` And he ?
Is he as charming a she ? ''
`` Quite , I 'm told .
He 's just of age , and be , in appearance a in everything else , a hero of romance . ''
`` How come your mother to secure him for tonight ? ''
`` Mrs. Langdon be die to make a lion of him , and beg to bring him .
He be very indifferent on such thing and seem intent on his own affair .
Is grave and old for his year , and do n't seem to care much for pleasure and admiration , a most men would after a youth like his , for he have have a hard time , I believe .
For a wonder , he consent to come when Mrs. Langdon ask him , and I fly off at once to tell you and secure you for tonight . ''
`` A thousand thanks .
I mean to rest , for Mamma fret about my be so gay ; but she wo n't object to a quiet evening with you .
What shall we wear ? ''
And here the conversation branch off on the all-absorbing topic of dress .
When Lillian join her friend that evening , the hero have already arrive , and , step into a recess , she wait to catch a glimpse of him .
Maud be call away , and she be alone when the crowd about the inner room thin and permit young Talbot to be see .
Well for Lillian that no one observe her at that moment , for she grow pale and sink into a chair , exclaim below her breath , `` It be Paul -- my Paul ! ''
She recognize him instantly , in spite of increased height , a dark moustache , and martial bearing .
It be Paul , old , graver , handsomer , but still `` her Paul , '' a she call him , with a flush of pride and delight a she watch him , and felt that of all there she know him best and love him most .
For the childish affection still exist , and this discovery add a tinge of romance that make it doubly dangerous as well a doubly pleasant .
Will he know me ?
she think , glance at a mirror which reflect a slender figure with bright hair , white arm , and brilliant eye ; a graceful little head , proudly carry , and a sweet mouth , just then very charm , a it smile till pearly teeth shone between the ruddy lip .
I 'm glad I 'm not ugly , and I hope he 'll like me , she think , a she smooth the golden ripple on her forehead , settle her sash , and shake out the fold of her airy dress in a flutter of girlish excitement .
`` I 'll pretend not to know him , when we meet , and see what he will do , '' she say , with a wicked sense of power ; for be forewarn she be forearm , and , fear no betrayal of surprise on her own part , be eager to enjoy any of which he might be guilty .
Leaving her nook , she join a group of young friend and hold herself prepare for the meeting .
Presently she saw Maud and Mrs. Langdon approaching , evidently intent on present the hero to the heiress .
`` Mr. Talbot , Miss Trevlyn , '' say the lady .
And look up with a well-assumed air of indifference , Lillian return the gentleman 's bow with her eye fix full upon his face .
Not a feature of that face change , and so severely unconscious of any recognition be it that the girl be bewilder .
For a moment she fancy she have be mistake in his identity , and a pang of disappointment trouble her ; but a he move a chair for Maud , she saw on the one ungloved hand a little scar which she remember well , for he receive it in save her from a dangerous fall .
At the sight all the happy past rise before her , and if her telltale eye have not be avert they would have betray her .
A sudden flush of maidenly shame dye her cheek a she remember that last ride , and the childish confidence then interchange .
This Helen be the little sweetheart whose picture he wear , and now , in spite of all obstacle , he have win both fortune and ladylove .
The sound of his voice recall her thought , and glance up she meet the deep eye fix on her with the same steady look they use to wear .
He have address her , but what he say she know not , beyond a vague idea that it be some slight allusion to the music go on in the next room .
With a smile which would serve for an answer to almost any remark , she hastily plunge into conversation with a composure that do her credit in the eye of her friend , who stand in awe of the young hero , for all be but just out .
`` Mr. Talbot hardly need an introduction here , for his name be well-known among u , though this be perhaps his first visit to England ? ''
she say , flatter herself that this artful speech would entrap him into the reply she want .
With a slight frown , a if the allusion to his adventure rather annoy him , and a smile that puzzle all but Lillian , he answer very simply , `` It be not my first visit to this hospitable island .
I be here a few year ago , for a short time , and leave with regret . ''
`` Then you have old friend here ? ''
And Lillian watch him a she speak .
`` I have .
They have doubtless forget me now , '' he say , with a sudden shadow mar the tranquillity of his face .
`` Why doubt them ?
If they be true friend , they will not forget . ''
The word be uttered impulsively , almost warmly , but Talbot make no response , except a polite inclination and an abrupt change in the conversation .
`` That remain to be prove .
Do you sing , Miss Trevlyn ? ''
`` A little . ''
And Lillian 's tone be both cold and proud .
`` A great deal , and very charmingly , '' add Maud , who take pride in her friend 's gift both of voice and beauty .
`` Come , dear , there be so few of u you will sing , I know .
Mamma desire me to ask you when Edith have do . ''
To her surprise Lillian comply , and allow Talbot to lead her to the instrument .
Still hop to win some sign of recognition from him , the girl choose an air he teach her and sing it with a spirit and skill that surprise the listener who possess no key to her mood .
At the last verse her voice suddenly falter , but Talbot take up the song and carry her safely through it with his well-tuned voice .
`` You know the air then ? ''
she say in a low tone , a a hum of commendation follow the music .
`` All Italians sing it , though few do it like yourself , '' he answer quietly , restore the fan he have hold while stand beside her .
Provoking boy !
why wo n't he know me ?
thought Lillian .
And her tone be almost petulant a she refuse to sing again .
Talbot offer his arm and lead her to a seat , behind which stand a little statuette of a child hold a fawn by a daisy chain .
`` Pretty , be n't it ? ''
she say , a he pause to look at it instead of take the chair before her .
`` I use to enjoy model tiny deer and hind in wax , as well a make daisy chain .
Is sculpture among the many accomplishment which rumor tell u you possess ? ''
`` No .
Those who , like me , have their own fortune to mold find time for little else , '' he answer gravely , still examine the marble group .
Lillian break her fan with an angry flirt , for she be tire of her trial , and wish she have openly greet him at the beginning ; feel now how pleasant it would have be to sit chatting of old time , while her friend dare hardly address him at all .
She be on the point of call him by his former name , when the remembrance of what he have be arrest the word on her lip .
He be proud ; would he not dread to have it know that , in his day of adversity , he have be a servant ?
For if she betray her knowledge of his past , she would be force to tell where and how that knowledge be gain .
No , good wait till they meet alone , she think ; he would thank her for her delicacy , and she could easily explain her motive .
He evidently wish to seem a stranger , for once she catch a gleam of the old , mirthful mischief in his eye , a she glance up unexpectedly .
He do remember her , she be sure , yet be try her , perhaps , a she try him .
Well , she would stand the test and enjoy the joke by-and-by .
With this fancy in her head she assume a gracious air and chat away in her most charming style , feel both gay and excite , so anxious be she to please , and so glad to recover her early friend .
A naughty whim seize her a her eye fell on a portfolio of classical engraving which someone have leave in disorder on a table near her .
Tossing them over she ask his opinion of several , and then hand him one in which Helen of Troy be represent a give her hand to the irresistible Paris .
`` Do you think her worth so much bloodshed , and deserve so much praise ? ''
she ask , vainly try to conceal the significant smile that would break loose on her lip and sparkle in her eye .
Talbot laugh the short , boyish laugh so familiar to her ear , a he glance from the picture to the arch questioner , and answer in a tone that make her heart beat with a nameless pain and pleasure , so full of suppressed ardor be it : `` Yes !
` All for love or the world well lose ' be a say I heartily agree to .
La belle Helene be my favorite heroine , and I regard Paris a the most enviable of men . ''
`` I should like to see her . ''
The wish broke from Lillian involuntarily , and she be too much confuse to turn it off by any general expression of interest in the classical lady .
`` You may sometime , '' answer Talbot , with an air of amusement ; add , a if to relieve her , `` I have a poetical belief that all the lovely woman of history or romance will meet , and know , and love each other in some charming hereafter . ''
`` But I 'm no heroine and no beauty , so I shall never enter your poetical paradise , '' say Lillian , with a pretty affectation of regret .
`` Some woman be beauty without know it , and the heroine of romance never give to the world .
I think you and Helen will yet meet , Miss Trevlyn . ''
As he speak , Mrs. Langdon beckon , and he leave her ponder over his last word , and conscious of a secret satisfaction in his implied promise that she should see his betroth .
`` How do you like him ? ''
whisper Maud , slip into the empty chair .
`` Very well , '' be the composed reply ; for Lillian enjoy her little mystery too much to spoil it yet .
`` What do you say to him ?
I long to hear , for you seem to enjoy yourselves very much , but I do n't like to be a marplot . ''
Lillian repeat a part of the conversation , and Maud profess to be consume with jealousy at the impression her friend have evidently make .
`` It be folly to try to win the hero , for he be already win , you know , '' answer Lillian , shut the cover on the pictured Helen with a sudden motion a if glad to extinguish her .
`` Oh dear , no ; Mrs. Langdon just tell Mamma that she be mistake about their be engage ; for she ask him and he shake his head , say Helen be his ward . ''
`` But that be absurd , for he 's only a boy himself .
It 's very odd , be n't it ?
Never mind , I shall soon know all about it . ''
`` How ? ''
cry Maud , amaze at Lillian 's assured manner .
`` Wait a day or two and , I 'll tell you a romance in return for yours .
Your mother beckons to me , so I know Hester have come .
Good night .
I 've have a charming time . ''
And with this tantalize adieu , Lillian slip away .
Hester be wait in the carriage , but a Lillian appear , Talbot put aside the footman and hand her in , say very low , in the well-remembered tone : `` Good night , my little mistress . ''
Chapter VI FAIR HELEN To no one but her mother and Hester do Lillian confide the discovery she have make .
None of the former servant but old Bedford remain with them , and till Paul choose to renew the old friendship it be best to remain silent .
Great be the surprise and delight of our lady and Hester at the good fortune of their protege , and many the conjecture a to how he would explain his hasty flight .
`` You will go and see him , wo n't you , Mamma , or at least inquire about him ? ''
say Lillian , eager to assure the wanderer of a welcome , for those few word of his have satisfy her entirely .
`` No , dear , it be for him to seek u , and till he do , I shall make no sign .
He know where we be , and if he choose he can renew the acquaintance so strangely break off .
Be patient , and above all thing remember , Lillian , that you be no longer a child , '' reply my lady , rather disturb by her daughter 's enthusiastic praise of Paul .
`` I wish I be , for then I might act a I feel , and not be afraid of shock the propriety . ''
And Lillian go to bed to dream of her hero .
For three day she stay at home , expect Paul , but he do not come , and she go out for her usual ride in the Park , hop to meet him .
An elderly groom now ride behind her , and she survey him with extreme disgust , a she remember the handsome lad who have once fill that place .
Nowhere do Paul appear , but in the Ladies ' Mile she pass an elegant brougham in which sit a very lovely girl and a mild old lady .
`` That be Talbot 's fiancee , '' say Maud Churchill , who have join her .
`` Is n't she beautiful ? ''
`` Not at all -- yes , very , '' be Lillian 's somewhat peculiar reply , for jealousy and truth have a conflict just then .
`` He 's so perfectly absorb and devote that I be sure that story be true , so adieu to our hope , '' laugh Maud .
`` Did you have any ?
Good-bye , I must go . ''
And Lillian rode home at a pace which cause the stout groom great distress .
`` Mamma , I 've see Paul 's betrothed ! ''
she cry , run into her mother 's boudoir .
`` And I have see Paul himself , '' reply my lady , with a warning look , for there he stand , with half-extended hand , a if wait to be acknowledge .
Lillian forget her embarrassment in her pleasure , and make him an elaborate curtsy , say , with a half-merry , half-reproachful glance , `` Mr. Talbot be welcome in whatever guise he appear . ''
`` I choose to appear a Paul , then , and offer you a seat , Miss Lillian , '' he say , assume a much of his boyish manner a he could .
Lillian take it and try to feel at ease , but the difference between the lad she remember and the man she now saw be too great to be forget .
`` Now tell u your adventure , and why you vanish away so mysteriously four year ago , '' she say , with a touch of the childish imperiousness in her voice , though her frank eye fell before his .
`` I be about to do so when you appear with news concern my cousin , '' he begin .
`` Your cousin ! ''
exclaim Lillian .
`` Yes , Helen 's mother and my own be sister .
Both married Englishmen , both die young , leave u to care for each other .
We be like a brother and sister , and always together till I leave her to serve Colonel Daventry .
The death of the old priest to whom I entrust her recall me to Genoa , for I be then her only guardian .
I mean to have take leave of you , my lady , properly , but the consequence of that foolish trick of mine frighten me away in the most unmannerly fashion . ''
`` Ah , it be you , then , in the state chamber ; I always think so , '' and Lady Trevlyn draw a long breath of relief .
`` Yes , I hear it whisper among the servant that the room be haunt , and I felt a wish to prove the truth of the story and my own courage .
Hester lock me in , for fear of my sleepwalking ; but I lower myself by a rope and then climb in at the closet window of the state chamber .
When you come , my lady , I think it be Hester , and slip into the bed , mean to give her a fright in return for her turn the key on me .
But when your cry show me what I have do , I be fill with remorse , and escape a quickly and quietly a possible .
I should have ask pardon before ; I do now , most humbly , my lady , for it be sacrilege to play prank there . ''
During the first part of his story Paul 's manner have be frank and composed , but in tell the latter part , his demeanor underwent a curious change .
He fix his eye on the ground and speak a if repeat a lesson , while his color vary , and a half-proud , half-submissive expression replace the former candid one .
Lillian observe this , and it disturb her , but my lady take it for shame at his boyish freak and receive his confession kindly , grant a free pardon and express sincere pleasure at his amended fortune .
As he listen , Lillian saw him clench his hand hard and knit his brow , assume the grim look she have often see , a if try to steel himself against some importunate emotion or rebellious thought .
`` Yes , half my work be do , and I have a home , thanks to my generous benefactor , and I hope to enjoy it well and wisely , '' he say in a grave tone , a if the fortune have not yet bring him his heart 's desire .
`` And when be the other half of the work to be accomplish , Paul ?
That depend on your cousin , perhaps . ''
And Lady Trevlyn regard him with a gleam of womanly curiosity in her melancholy eye .
`` It do , but not in the way you fancy , my lady .
Whatever Helen may be , she be not my fiancee yet , Miss Lillian . ''
And the shadow lift a he laugh , look at the young lady , who be decidedly abash , in spite of a sense of relief cause by his word .
`` I merely accept the world 's report , '' she say , affect a nonchalant air .
`` The world be a liar , a you will find in time '' be his abrupt reply .
`` I hope to see this beautiful cousin , Paul .
Will she receive u a old friend of yours ? ''
`` Thanks , not yet , my lady .
She be still too much a stranger here to enjoy new face , even kind one .
I have promise perfect rest and freedom for a time , but you shall be the first whom she receive . ''
Again Lillian detect the secret disquiet which possess him , and her curiosity be rouse .
It pique her that this Helen felt no desire to meet her and choose to seclude herself , a if regardless of the interest and admiration she excite .
`` I will see her in spite of her refusal , for I only catch a glimpse in the Park .
Something be wrong , and I 'll discover it , for it evidently worry Paul , and perhaps I can help him . ''
As this purpose spring up in the warm but willful heart of the girl , she regain her spirit and be her most charm self while the young man stay .
They talk of many thing in a pleasant , confidential manner , though when Lillian recall that hour , she be surprise to find how little Paul have really tell them of his past life or future plan .
It be agree among them to say nothing of their former relation , except to old Bedford , who be discretion itself , but to appear to the world a new-made friend -- thus avoid unpleasant and unnecessary explanation which would only excite gossip .
My lady ask him to dine , but he have business out of town and decline , take his leave with a linger look , which make Lillian steal away to study her face in the mirror and wonder if she look her best , for in Paul 's eye she have read undisguised admiration .
Lady Trevlyn go to her room to rest , leave the girl free to ride , drive , or amuse herself a she like .
As if fear her courage would fail if she delay , Lillian order the carriage , and , bid Hester mount guard over her , she drive away to St. John 's Wood .
`` Now , Hester , do n't lecture or be prim when I tell you that we be go on a frolic , '' she begin , after get the old woman into an amiable mood by every winning wile she could devise .
`` I think you 'll like it , and if it 's find out I 'll take the blame .
There be some mystery about Paul 's cousin , and I 'm go to find it out . ''
`` Bless you , child , how ? ''
`` She live alone here , be seldom see , and wo n't go anywhere or receive anyone .
That 's not natural in a pretty girl .
Paul wo n't talk about her , and , though he 's fond of her , he always look grave and grim when I ask question .
That 's provoking , and I wo n't hear it .
Maud be engage to Raleigh , you know ; well , he confide to her that he and a friend have find out where Helen be , have go to the next villa , which be empty , and under pretense of look at it get a peep at the girl in her garden .
I 'm go to do the same . ''
`` And what be I to do ? ''
ask Hester , secretly relish the prank , for she be die with curiosity to behold Paul 's cousin .
`` You be to do the talk with the old woman , and give me a chance to look .
Now say you will , and I 'll behave myself like an angel in return . ''
Hester yield , after a few discreet scruple , and when they reach Laburnum Lodge play her part so well that Lillian soon manage to stray away into one of the upper room which overlook the neighboring garden .
Helen be there , and with eager eye the girl scrutinize her .
She be very beautiful , in the classical style ; a fair and finely mold a a statue , with magnificent dark hair and eye , and possess of that perfect grace which be as effective a beauty .
She be alone , and when first see be bend over a flower which she caress and seem to examine with great interest a she stand a long time motionless before it .
Then she begin to pace slowly around and around the little grass plot , her hand hang loosely clasp before her , and her eye fix on vacancy a if absorb in thought .
But a the first effect of her beauty pass away , Lillian find something peculiar about her .
It be not the somewhat foreign dress and ornament she wear ; it be in her face , her movement , and the tone of her voice , for a she walk she sing a low , monotonous song , a if unconsciously .
Lillian watch her keenly , mark the aimless motion of the little hand , the apathy of the lovely face , and the mirthless accent of the voice ; but most of all the vacant fixture of the great dark eye .
Around and around she go , with an elastic step and a mechanical regularity wearisome to witness .
What be the matter with her ?
think Lillian anxiously , a this painful impression increase with every scrutiny of the unconscious girl .
So abash be she that Hester 's call be unheard , and Hester be unseen a she come and stand beside her .
Both look a moment , and a they look an old lady come from the house and lead Helen in , still murmur her monotonous song and move her hand a if to catch and hold the sunshine .
`` Poor dear , poor dear .
No wonder Paul turn sad and wo n't talk of her , and that she do n't see anyone , '' sigh Hester pitifully .
`` What be it ?
I see , but do n't understand , '' whisper Lillian .
`` She 's an innocent , deary , an idiot , though that 's a hard word for a pretty creature like her . ''
`` How terrible !
Come away , Hester , and never breathe to anyone what we have see . ''
And with a shudder and sense of pain and pity lie heavy at her heart , she hurry away , feel doubly guilty in the discovery of this affliction .
The thought of it haunt her continually ; the memory of the lonely girl give her no peace ; and a consciousness of deceit burden her unspeakably , especially in Paul 's presence .
This last for a week , then Lillian resolve to confess , hop that when he find she know the truth he would let her share his cross and help to lighten it .
Waiting her opportunity , she seize a moment when her mother be absent , and with her usual frankness speak out impetuously .
`` Paul , I 've do wrong , and I can have no peace till I be pardon .
I have see Helen . ''
`` Where , when , and how ? ''
he ask , look disturbed and yet relieve .
She tell him rapidly , and a she end she look up at him with her sweet face , so full of pity , shame , and grief it would have be impossible to deny her anything .
`` Can you forgive me for discover this affliction ? ''
`` I think I could forgive you a far great fault , Lillian , '' he answer , in a tone that say many thing .
`` But deceit be so mean , so dishonorable and contemptible , how can you so easily pardon it in me ? ''
she ask , quite overcome by this forgiveness , grant without any reproach .
`` Then you would find it hard to pardon such a thing in another ? ''
he say , with the expression that always puzzle her .
`` Yes , it would be hard ; but in those I love , I could forgive much for love 's sake . ''
With a sudden gesture he take her hand say , impulsively , `` How little change you be !
Do you remember that last ride of ours nearly five year ago ? ''
`` Yes , Paul , '' she answer , with averted eye .
`` And what we talk of ? ''
`` A part of that childish gossip I remember well . ''
`` Which part ? ''
`` The pretty little romance you tell me . ''
And Lillian look up now , long to ask if Helen 's childhood have be blight like her youth .
Paul drop her hand a if he , read her thought , and his own hand go involuntarily toward his breast , betray that the locket still hang there .
`` What do I say ? ''
he ask , smile at her sudden shyness .
`` You vow you 'd win and wed your fair little lady-love if you live . ''
`` And so I will , '' he cry , with sudden fire in his eye .
`` What , marry her ? ''
`` Aye , that I will . ''
`` Oh Paul , will you tie yourself for life to a -- '' The word die on her lip , but a gesture of repugnance finish the speech .
`` A what ? ''
he demand , excitedly .
`` An innocent , one bereft of reason , '' stammer Lillian , entirely forget herself in her interest for him .
`` Of whom do you speak ? ''
ask Paul , look utterly bewilder , `` Of poor Helen . ''
`` Good heaven , who tell you that base lie ? ''
And his voice deepen with indignant pain .
`` I saw her , you do not deny her affliction ; Hester say so , and I believe it .
Have I wrong her , Paul ? ''
`` Yes , cruelly .
She be blind , but no idiot , thank God . ''
There be such earnestness in his voice , such reproach in his word , and such ardor in his eye , that Lillian 's pride give way , and with a broken entreaty for pardon , she cover up her face , weep the bitter tear she ever shed .
For in that moment , and the sharp pang it bring her , she felt how much she love Paul and how hard it be to lose him .
The childish affection have blossom into a woman 's passion , and in a few short week have pass through many phase of jealousy , hope , despair , and self-delusion .
The joy she felt on see him again , the pride she take in him , the disgust Helen cause her , the relief she have not dare to own even to herself , when she fancy fate have put an insurmountable barrier between Paul and his cousin , the despair at find it only a fancy , and the anguish of hear him declare his unshaken purpose to marry his first love -- all these conflict emotion have lead to this hard moment , and now self-control desert her in her need .
In spite of her effort the passionate tear would have their way , though Paul soothe her with assurance of entire forgiveness , promise of Helen 's friendship , and every gentle device he could imagine .
She command herself at last by a strong effort , murmur eagerly a she shrink from the hand that put back her fallen hair , and the face so full of tender sympathy bending over her : `` I be so grieved and ashamed at what I have say and do .
I shall never dare to see Helen .
Forgive me , and forget this folly .
I 'm sad and heavyhearted just now ; it 's the anniversary of Papa 's death , and Mamma always suffer so much at such time that I get nervous . ''
`` It be your birthday also .
I remember it , and venture to bring a little token in return for the one you give me long ago .
This be a talisman , and tomorrow I will tell you the legend concern it .
Wear it for my sake , and God bless you , dear . ''
The last word be whisper hurriedly ; Lillian saw the glitter of an antique ring , felt the touch of bearded lip on her hand , and Paul be go .
But a he leave the house he set his teeth , exclaim low to himself , `` Yes , tomorrow there shall be an end of this !
We must risk everything and abide the consequence now .
I 'll have no more torment for any of u . ''
Chapter VII THE SECRET KEY `` Is Lady Trevlyn at home , Bedford ? ''
ask Paul , a he present himself at an early hour next day , wear the keen , stern expression which make him look ten year old than he be .
`` No , sir , my lady and Miss Lillian go down to the Hall last night . ''
`` No ill news , I hope ? ''
And the young man 's eye kindle a if he felt a crisis at hand .
`` Not that I hear , sir .
Miss Lillian take one of her sudden whim and would have go alone , if my lady have n't give in much against her will , this be a time when she be good away from the place . ''
`` Did they leave no message for me ? ''
`` Yes , sir .
Will you step in and read the note at your ease .
We be in sad confusion , but this room be in order . ''
Leading the way to Lillian 's boudoir , the man present the note and retire .
A few hasty line from my lady , regret the necessity of this abrupt departure , yet give no reason for it , hop they might meet next season , but make no allusion to see him at the Hall , desire Lillian 's thanks and regard , but close with no hint of Helen , except compliment .
Paul smile a he throw it into the fire , say to himself , `` Poor lady , she think she have escape the danger by fly , and Lillian try to hide her trouble from me .
Tender little heart !
I 'll comfort it without delay . ''
He sit look about the dainty room still full of token of her presence .
The piano stand open with a song he like upon the rack ; a bit of embroidery , whose progress he have often watch , lay in her basket with the little thimble near it ; there be a strew of paper on the writing table , torn note , scrap of drawing , and ball card ; a pearl-colored glove lay on the floor ; and in the grate the faded flower he have bring two day before .
As his eye rove to and fro , he seem to enjoy some happy dream , break too soon by the sound of servant shut up the house .
He arise but linger near the table , a if longing to search for some forgotten hint of himself .
`` No , there have be enough lock picking and stealthy work ; I 'll do no more for her sake .
This theft will harm no one and tell no tale . ''
And snatch up the glove , Paul depart .
`` Helen , the time have come .
Are you ready ? ''
he ask , enter her room an hour later .
`` I be ready . ''
And rising , she stretch her hand to him with a proud expression , contrast painfully with her helpless gesture .
`` They have go to the Hall , and we must follow .
It be useless to wait longer ; we gain nothing by it , and the claim must stand on such proof a we have , or fall for want of that one link .
I be tire of disguise .
I want to be myself and enjoy what I have win , unless I lose it all . ''
`` Paul , whatever happen , remember we cling together and share good or evil fortune a we always have do .
I be a burden , but I can not live without you , for you be my world .
Do not desert me . ''
She grope her way to him and clung to his strong arm a if it be her only stay .
Paul draw her close , say wistfully , a he caress the beautiful sightless face lean on his shoulder , '' Mia cara , would it break your heart , if at the last hour I give up all and let the word remain unspoken ?
My courage fail me , and in spite of the hard past I would gladly leave them in peace . ''
`` No , no , you shall not give it up ! ''
cry Helen almost fiercely , while the slumber fire of her southern nature flash into her face .
`` You have wait so long , work so hard , suffer so much , you must not lose your reward .
You promise , and you must keep the promise . ''
`` But it be so beautiful , so noble to forgive , and return a blessing for a curse .
Let u bury the old feud , and right the old wrong in a new way .
Those two be so blameless , it be cruel to visit the sin of the dead on their innocent head .
My lady have suffer enough already , and Lillian be so young , so happy , so unfit to meet a storm like this .
Oh , Helen , mercy be more divine than justice . ''
Something move Paul deeply , and Helen seem about to yield , when the name of Lillian work a subtle change in her .
The color die out of her face , her black eye burn with a gloomy fire , and her voice be relentless a she answer , while her frail hand hold him fast , `` I will not let you give it up .
We be as innocent a they ; we have suffer more ; and we deserve our right , for we have no sin to expiate .
Go on , Paul , and forget the sentimental folly that unman you . ''
Something in her word seem to sting or wound him .
His face darken , and he put her away , say briefly , `` Let it be so then .
In an hour we must go . ''
On the evening of the same day , Lady Trevlyn and her daughter sit together in the octagon room at the Hall .
Twilight be fall and candle be not yet bring , but a cheery fire blaze in the wide chimney , fill the apartment with a ruddy glow , turn Lillian 's bright hair to gold and lend a tinge of color to my lady 's pallid cheek .
The girl sit on a low lounging chair before the fire , her head on her hand , her eye on the red ember , her thought -- where ?
My lady lay on her couch , a little in the shadow , regard her daughter with an anxious air , for over the young face a somber change have pass which fill her with disquiet .
`` You be out of spirit , love , '' she say at last , break the long silence , a Lillian give an unconscious sigh and lean wearily into the depth of her chair .
`` Yes , Mamma , a little . ''
`` What be it ?
Are you ill ? ''
`` No , Mamma ; I think London gaiety be rather too much for me .
I 'm too young for it , a you often say , and I 've find it out . ''
`` Then it be only weariness that make you so pale and grave , and so bent on come back here ? ''
Lillian be the soul of truth , and with a moment 's hesitation answer slowly , `` Not that alone , Mamma .
I 'm worried about other thing .
Do n't ask me what , please . ''
`` But I must ask .
Tell me , child , what thing ?
Have you see any one ?
Had letter , or be annoy in any way about -- anything ? ''
My lady spoke with sudden energy and rise on her arm , eye the girl with unmistakable suspicion and excitement .
`` No , Mamma , it 's only a foolish trouble of my own , '' answer Lillian , with a glance of surprise and a shamefaced look a the word reluctantly leave her lip .
`` Ah , a love trouble , nothing more ?
Thank God for that ! ''
And my lady sink back a if a load be off her mind .
`` Tell me all , my darling ; there be no confidante like a mother . ''
`` You be very kind , and perhaps you can cure my folly if I tell it , and yet I be ashamed , '' murmur the girl .
Then yield to an irresistible impulse to ask help and sympathy , she add , in an almost inaudible tone , `` I come away to escape from Paul . ''
`` Because he love you , Lillian ? ''
ask my lady , with a frown and a half smile .
`` Because he do not love me , Mamma . ''
And the poor girl hide her burning cheek in her hand , a if overwhelm with maidenly shame at the implied confession of her own affection .
`` My child , how be this ?
I can not but be glad that he do not love you ; yet it fill me with grief to see that this pain you .
He be not a mate for you , Lillian .
Remember this , and forget the transient regard that have spring up from that early intimacy of yours . ''
`` He be wellborn , and now my equal in fortune , and oh , so much my superior in all gift of mind and heart , '' sigh the girl , still with hidden face , for tear be drop through her slender finger .
`` It may be , but there be a mystery about him ; and I have a vague dislike to him in spite of all that have pass .
But , darling , be you sure he do not care for you ?
I fancy I read a different story in his face , and when you beg to leave town so suddenly , I believe that you have see this also , and kindly wish to spare him any pain . ''
`` It be to spare myself .
Oh , Mamma , he love Helen , and will marry her although she be blind .
He tell me this , with a look I could not doubt , and so I come away to hide my sorrow , '' sob poor Lillian in despair .
Lady Trevlyn go to her and , lay the bright head on her motherly bosom , say soothingly a she caress it , `` My little girl , it be too soon for you to know these trouble , and I be punish for yield to your entreaty for a peep at the gay world .
It be now too late to spare you this ; you have have your wish and must pay it price , dear .
But , Lillian , call pride to aid you , and conquer this fruitless love .
It can not be very deep a yet , for you have know Paul , the man , too short a time to be hopelessly enamor .
Remember , there be others , good , braver , more worthy of you ; that life be long , and full of pleasure yet untried . ''
`` Have no fear for me , Mamma .
I 'll not disgrace you or myself by any sentimental folly .
I do love Paul , but I can conquer it , and I will .
Give me a little time , and you shall see me quite myself again . ''
Lillian lift her head with an air of proud resolve that satisfy her mother , and with a grateful kiss stole away to ease her full heart alone .
As she disappear Lady Trevlyn draw a long breath and , clasp her hand with a gesture of thanksgiving , murmur to herself in an accent of relief , `` Only a love sorrow !
I fear it be some new terror like the old one .
Seventeen year of silence , seventeen year of secret dread and remorse for me , '' she say , pace the room with tightly lock hand and eye full of unspeakable anguish .
`` Oh , Richard , Richard !
I forgive you long ago , and surely I have expiate my innocent offense by these year of suffering !
For her sake I do it , and for her sake I still keep dumb .
God know I ask nothing for myself but rest and oblivion by your side . ''
Half an hour later , Paul stand at the hall door .
It be ajar , for the family have return unexpectedly , a be evident from the open door and empty hall .
Entering unseen , he ascend to the room my lady usually occupy .
The fire burn low , Lillian 's chair be empty , and my lady lay asleep , a if lull by the sigh wind without and the deep silence that reign within .
Paul stand regard her with a great pity soften his face a he mark the sunken eye , pallid cheek , lock too early gray , and restless lip mutter in dream .
`` I wish I could spare her this , '' he sigh , stoop to wake her with a word .
